22101720312 f.ls.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2014 https://archive.org/details/b20420559MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, A New and Practical Method of Learning Cookery, and Working out Well-tried Recipesy together with clear instructions in the arts of Baking, Boiling, Broiling, Braising, Roasting, Frying, Stewing, Steaming, Larding, Glazing, Preserving, Pickling, as well as the proper ways of making Pastry, Puddings, Moulds, Jellies, Creams, Custards, Sauces, Forcemeats, Savouries, Cakes, Compotes, Omelets. EDITED BY MYRA. LONDON: GOUBAUD AND SON, 39 & 40, Bedford Street, Covent Garden, W.C/ ^WELLCOIWF ir'STITUTE \ i'l * "Y Coll. we^'Omec Csil No.PREFACE. HIS little volume must not be considered in any way as a substitute for larger and well-known Cookery Books, the standard works on the subject of cookery for many years. It is more intended for beginners who require a book to which they can instantly refer whilst preparing a dish, and which tells them in the fewest possible words the ingredients they will require in its preparation, the quantity of each ingredient, the process or processes through which it has to go before it can be mixed with the other ingredients, and the order in which these processes have to follow each other. No attempt is made to treat cooking from a scientific point of view; the object has been to provide a handy, practical, concise book, easily referred to, and in which it is not necessary to read through the whole of the recipe in order to find the particular point that requires the moment's study. The tabular system followed obviates any necessity of this kind : the young student of cookery looks down the columns, notes the nature and amount of the ingredients required, collects these round her, and then sees what has to be done with each one. The quantities have been given as accurately as possible, and should be carefully observed ; at the same time, the cook should note the taste of the individuals for whom she exercises her art, and alter the seasonings and flavouring of the dishes as she thinks expedient in order to render the A 2iv PREFACE. food thoroughly palatable. A little experience will soon give the necessary skill forjudging such matters. The recipes given include all those usually required by English middle-class families, and to these have been added the recipes of a number of French, German, and Italian dishes, all good in their several ways, easy of preparation, and likely to be acceptable as providing a little agreeable change in the rather limited menu of the ordinary English cuisine. More recipes are given for soups and vegetables than are usually found in English cookery books, for these two very nutritious, economical, and delicious branches of cookery are generally too much overlooked in England. A great number of recipes are also given for "little dishes," made either from fresh meat or from such as has been already cooked. The preparation of these requires care and intelligence, but without a due exercise of these two qualities neither cooking, nor any other art, is likely to be pursued with success.CONTENTS. SECTION PAGE PREFACE ... ... ... ... lii. METHODS OF COOKING... ... ... vii. I. SOUPS ... ... ... i II. FISH ... ... ... ... ... 35 III. BEEF ... ... ... 65 IV. VEAL... ... ... ... ... 86 V. MUTTON ... ... ... 10S VI. LAMB .„ ... ... ... 127 VII. PORK ... ... ... ... 134 VIII. POULTRY ... ... ... ... 147 IX. GAME ... ... ... 173 X. VEGETABLES ... ... ... ... 201 XI. EGGS, OMELETS, AND CUSTARDS 23g XII. SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS ... ... 252 XIII. PASTRY ... ... ... 275 XIV. PUDDINGS ... ... ... ... 295 XV. CREAMS AND MOULDS ... ... ... 317 XVI. JELLIES ... ... .. ... 327 XVII. CAKES AND BISCUITS ... 335 XVIII. COMPOTES OF FRUIT ... ... ... 360 XIX. PRESERVES ... ... 373 XX. SAVOURY DISHES ... ... ... 390 XXI. PICKLES ... ,.. ... ... 404METHODS OF COOKING. ROASTING. "DOASTING is the simplest and most generally adopted ■** way of cooking fresh meat; it may be done in the oven, or before the fire on a spit, or suspended from a bottle-jack—most people prefer this method, as tending less to deteriorate the flavour of the meat. For a large joint the fire should be strong and even ; for a smaller joint it should be brisk—in either case the length of the fire should be a little longer than that of the meat, so that the ends of the joint may be roasted equally with the centre. Large joints are improved if they are allowed to lie in the dripping pan near the fire until warmed through, before they are hung up to roast. Great care must be used in roasting meat on a spit not to run this through the best part of the joint, as the gravy escapes by the holes made by the spit— the same remark holds good with skewers: string should be used as much as possible instead of skewers, to prevent the loss of gravy. The time generally allowed for roasting is a quarter of an hour to each pound of meat, and the joint is tender in proportion with the slowness of the roasting. There are, however, some points to be noted with regard to time that should be remembered; fresh meat takes longer to roast than does meat that has been hung for some time; young meat requires less cooking than that of older animals; and fat meat takes longer than lean meat, which should be covered with buttered paper before roasting, to prevent burning and dryness. Small—and especially thin—joints may be put down to aviii MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. brisk fire, which causes the fibres to contract and prevents the gravy from escaping. Large joints should not be put close to the fire at first, but gradually brought nearer to it, so that the heat may penetrate to the centre of the joint without scorching and burning the outside of it. Salt may be sprinkled over the joint while it lies in the pan before the fire, or when it is partially cooked : basting should be continued the whole time the joint is before the fire. It should be sheltered from draughts while roasting, and when the steam rises from the joint it is time to take it off the spit. The outside of a well-cooked joint is well browned, but not burnt: the inside is filled with natural gravy, the juice of the meat. Some joints, such as a fillet of veal, have flour dredged over them and browned, just before taking the meat from the fire. The cook must consult the taste of the family as to the amount of roasting that is required: veal, pork, and lamb should always be thoroughly done, but many people prefer beef and mutton rather underdone. To secure great tender- ness, keep the joint at a distance from the fire, and allow half an hour to each pound of meat, and put it closer to the fire to brown it for the last half hour before serving. Roasted in this way the joint will be tender and thoroughly done. BAKING. The oven is now often used for roasting meat instead of cooking the joint before the open fire: to many people, however, meat cooked in this way is unpalatable, and, except for its convenience, baking cannot be recommended as a substitute for roasting. Meat is baked in a tin dish, but raised on a stand so that it may not rest in the gravy that drips from it. To prevent it from being dried or burnt, sheets of buttered paper mayIX METHODS OF COOKING. be skewered over it, and potatoes or a Yorkshire pudding may be baked in the dish under the meat. The oven is, however, exceedingly well adapted for many methods of slow cooking when regular heat is required. Stews of meat, fish, or vegetables may all be cooked in the oven, either in earthen jars or in stewpans—rice baked in this way, with a proper amount of liquid and a little meat or fish, is excellent; and stock and soup can be as well prepared in the oven as on the fire. Many kinds of fish are nicer when baked than dressed in any other way ; fresh cured hams may be covered with paste and then baked, and will be found very tender and of fine flavour—in fact, any process of cooking that is done in a closed vessel, and that requires gentle and regular heat, may be safely entrusted to the oven. For baking pastry the oven should be moderately hot to raise the paste, but not hot enough to burn it before it is cooked through. When the pastry has been put in, the oven door must be closed, and not opened again until the paste is thoroughly set: if the heat is checked, or allowed to escape, the pastry will fall and become tough. Raised pies require a much hotter oven than is needed for fruit tarts : it is a good plan to heat the oven by burning wood in it for an hour or so before the pie is put in. Resi- nous or scented wood must not, however, be used for this purpose. Meat pies, when sufficiently browned, should be allowed to stand on the top of the oven for an hour or more, that the meat in them may become thoroughly cooked. The paste may be covered with white paper, to preserve it from blacks or dust and from burning. Baked milky puddings, such as rice, sago, custard, etc., require a very gentle oven ; but puddings of the batter kind require more heat to raise them.X MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. Baked puddings that resemble a souffle, and that have frothed white of eggs mixed with them the moment before they are put in the oven, require a moderate heat, and should be sent to table the instant they are taken out of the oven. A sheet of white paper placed over a pudding, when it is set and slightly browned, will preserve it from burning or from becoming too dark a colour. Large cakes require a well-sustained heat, or they will not be baked through: when done they should be gently taken out of the moulds and put near the door of the oven to dry the surface, and then laid on their sides on a sieve to cool. Small cakes and gingerbread must be baked in a slow oven, but light cakes, macaroons, ratafias, etc., require rather more heat. Cake tins should be well buttered, and lined with paper. BOILING. The time required for boiling meat varies with the size and nature of the joint, and also with the kind of meat: the method of cooking also varies slightly. Fresh meat is generally put into cold water, in the proportion of a quart of water to each pound of meat, and allowed to come gradually to the boil; the pot is then drawn aside, and the meat simmers gently until it is done. It is a good plan to place a reversed plate or dish at the bottom of the pot, to prevent the meat from resting on this and possibly adhering to it. Another way of boiling joints of fresh meat is to put them at once into boiling water, and when they have remained in it a minute to add cold water until the tempe- rature is reduced to tepid. After this the heat is again increased, and the joint is allowed to simmer until tender. This plan is said to keep the gravy in the meat withoutxi METHODS OF COOKING. hardening it. Large joints require from fifteen to twenty minutes boiling to each pound of meat; smaller joints take from twelve to fifteen minutes to each pound; lamb and veal take longer than mutton or beef; a chicken takes twenty minutes ; a fowl thirty or forty minutes; a turkey from an hour and a half to two hours, depending on the size; rabbits require a great deal of boiling in plenty of water, nearly or quite an hour and three-quarters. All salt meat should be soaked in cold water for at least two hours before it is required for cooking, and well washed and dried. It is put into cold water, which is allowed to come gradually to the boil, and the pot is then drawn away from the fire so that the meat can simmer gently until done. Some people consider it a good plan to let the meat boil fast for ten minutes before drawing it aside to simmer; this boiling preserves the juices, and it does not last long enough to harden the meat. The time usually allowed is a quarter of an hour to each pound of meat, but this, although suffi- cient for small joints, is not always enough for large ones. Bacon, for instance, takes much longer to boil than salt beef, ham, or tongue. All boiled meat or poultry that is to be eaten hot should be taken out of the pot as soon as it is done—it will become sodden and flavourless if left too long in the water. Meat that is to be eaten co?d, such as tongue or ham, should be allowed to cool in the liquor it has been boiled in ; rolled tongue and pressed spice beef are, of course, exceptions, as they must be moulded while hot. The meat should always be covered with water, although it is not desirable that there should be a great depth of water above the joint. Fast boiling will entirely spoil the meat, and render it hard, tough, and a bad colour. The scum must be taken off as it rises, but, except when skim- ming is necessary, the lid should be left on the pot, and theMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. xii heat, which need not be great for simmering, should be even and uninterrupted. In boiling poultry or white meats, a piece of bread with- out crust, and a little butter or beef suet, may be added to the water to soften it, and to keep the colour and improve the flavour of the joint. STEAMING. Steaming is often preferred to boiling for some kinds of food, such as potatoes, rice, vegetables, macaroni, fish, and sweet puddings. The steamer fits into the top of a sauce- pan made for the purpose, and any article that has no strong flavour may be boiled in the water contained in the sauce- pan, and which provides the steam for the steamer. The food to be steamed is prepared as for boiling, and the lid of the saucepan must be firmly closed to prevent the escape of the steam. Steaming is an excellent way of warming cold puddings and meat, as it entirely preserves their original flavour. FRYING. There are two chief points on which the success of fry- ing depends ; one is to have a sufficiency of fat to cover the articles to be fried, and the other is to have this boiling before anything is put into it. No food can be properly fried in a thin layer of warm grease ; there must be plenty of it, and it must be at the right degree of heat. A deep pan is therefore necessary for frying any but very flat objects, such as soles; and an admirable plan is to put the articles to be fried into a kind of wire-work basket, which is dipped into the pan of boiling fat, and then taken out with the fried articles in it when these are cooked. If wellxiii METHODS OF COOKING. covered with the fat, they are fried on both sides at once, and do not require turning, or any handling or touching, until they are removed from the basket. Butter, oil, lard, dripping, and clarified suet are all used for frying; of these, lard, dripping, and clarified suet are most used in general cooking. Olive oil answers extremely well for frying fish, and, if strained and carefully kept, can be used several times. Fat, also, may be used more than once for meat, if carefully strained and kept quite fresh. Butter is generally used only in frying vegetables for stews, when it forms part of the gravy, and for light and delicate dishes. No fat that has been used for one kind of food should ever be used for any other kind, as it invariably con- tracts the flavour of the articles fried in it. To test the heat of the boiling fat wait till it has left off bubbling, then dip your finger in water and shake it over the pan; if the fat crackles and sputters the heat is right, and the articles can be put in. The fat used must be per- fectly fresh, clean, and free from salt, otherwise the food will be spoilt in flavour and colour. All fried food must be carefully drained before it is sent to table; it should be so dry that it scarcely leaves a trace of grease on the cloth or paper on which it is served. Omelets should be fried in a special enamelled pan kept for the purpose, and never used for any other kind of food. The butter in which they are fried must be boiling hot, but not brown, or it will spoil the colour of the omelet. BROILING. The success of broiling depends almost entirely on the brightness and clearness of the fire: there should be a steady glow at the top, without smoke or flames. Muchxiv MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. can be done to improve the fire, if it is not clear, by sprink- ling a handful of salt on it. The gridiron should be perfectly clean and polished: gridirons with fluted bars and a receptacle for the gravy answer best. When hot the bars should be rubbed with suet or grease, to prevent the meat from sticking to them : chalk is used instead of grease for fish, and the gridiron is held in a sloping position over the fire. No salt should be sprinkled on the meat before broiling, as it has the effect of bringing out the gravy, which falls into the fire and is wasted. The meat, if thick, must be gradually heated through by being kept at a little distance above the fire, otherwise the outside will be burnt while the inside is nearly raw: thin meat may be broiled more briskly. Steaks, chops, and all broiled articles should be frequently turned with a pair of tongs: the holes made by a fork let the gravy out. Meat that has been dipped in egg and bread crumbs should also be dipped in clarified butter before broiling; cutlets may be seasoned a little with pepper and salt, and then brushed over with oil or butter—they are very good cooked in this way. Fish may be wrapped in buttered paper for broiling. STEWING. Fresh meat for stewing may be first gently boiled in the stewpan with the vegetables and stock, and then skimmed, but sometimes the meat is put into boiling stock or water: at other times cold water or stock, sufficient only to provide the necessary gravy in either case, is poured over it. In French stews the meat and vegetables are browned in butter and flour in the stewpan, the hot stock is then addedxv METHODS OF COOKING. with the seasoning and other ingredients, the lid is put on and the stewpan is placed where it will have slow but well- regulated heat, until it is ready to serve. The regulation of the heat is an important point in all stews, as the flavour of the dish depends almost entirely on the care that is taken to keep it steady and even, never too fast nor too slow, for an error in either direction will destroy the flavour, and either harden the meat or leave it insufficiently cooked. Once fairly started a stew should be interfered with as little as possible ; even raising the lid checks the process of cooking, and the fragrant steam that escapes is so much lost from the flavour. Good stock or gravy is absolutely necessary to make a rich and well flavoured stew; water or thin stock can only be used for Irish stews and similar homely family dishes. Stewing is the most economical process in cooking, as nothing is put into a stew that is not eaten, unless it is perhaps the bunch of parsley and herbs put in to flavour the gravy. No method of cooking is more easy, yet none is so often a failure, chiefly because the gravy is too thin and flavourless, and the stew is allowed to boil at a gallop, when it should simmer very gently. When cold meat is to be served as a stew, the gravy must be first made and simmered with the vegetables, seasoning, flavouring, etc., until it is of the right consist- ence ; any thickening it requires should be put in at the very first stage; the addition of flour towards the end of the cooking should be avoided as much as possible, as it does not mix well, and often gives the gravy a raw flavour. If it is necessary to thicken the gravy a little more, this should be done by adding a little butter kneaded with flour, or a little prepared white or brown roux. The gravy when thoroughly cooked is strained, if necessary, into another saucepan, and the meat, cut in neat slices and perfectlyMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. XVI free from gristle and skin, is then heated in the simmering gravy, which must never be allowed to boil. Boiling will infallibly harden the meat and destroy the flavour of the stew, which should be served as soon as the meat is thoroughly hot. Saucepans should not be used for stewing: a stewpan, with a well-fitting lid, is the only vessel fit for the purpose. Meat and vegetables that require browning before they are stewed can be fried in an ordinary stewpan, or in a deep frying pan or saute pan. Good stews can, however, be made by putting all the ingredients in an earthen jar with a well-fitting top, and putting this in a slow oven to stew gently till done. The lid of the stewpan or jar may be rendered air-tight by put- ting some flour-and-water paste over the opening, and removing this only when the stew is cooked. BRAISING. A braising-pan is required for this method of cooking joints, etc. This is a large or small, deep, oblong vessel of copper, with a tinned lining like a stewpan, having a very deep lid or cover, with an upright ledge all round it, to keep in the hot coals or embers that are burnt on it, to give the necessary heat above and below the article cooked. Meat and some kinds of poultry, turkeys, fowls, game, etc., are frequently braised ; slices of fat bacon are placed in the pan, and the meat is covered with more slices before it is put in. Onions, herbs, and sometimes vegetables are added ; bones and trimmings of meat are put in to add richness to the gravy, a sufficient quantity of good stock is poured over it, with any seasoning that is needed, the cover is put on, hot coals are placed on this, and the pan is placedxvii METHODS OF COOKING. where its contents will simmer or stew very gently for two or three hours. When the meat is done it is taken out of the pan and kept hot, and the gravy is strained into a basin ; to get rid of the fat plunge the basin of gravy into cold water, and when the fat coagulates at the top take it off. Then boil the gravy quickly until it thickens, and pour it over the meat ; if very thick, brush it over and put the meat in the oven for a few minutes to form a glaze. Delicate kinds of meat are covered with a sheet of buttered paper, to save them from being burned by the fire on the lid. GLAZING. Glaze is a thick, but clear brown gravy, produced by the continued boiling of an ordinary good made gravy until it is reduced to a third or fourth part of the original quantity, and is about the same consistence as the best treacle—when cold it becomes a jelly. Glaze is used for brushing over made dishes, and many that are eaten cold—ham, tongue, boned turkey, etc. When two or three coats of glaze are needed, as is some- times the case, each coat must be allowed to cool before the next one is put on. When cold they form a thick, brown smooth jelly all over the article glazed. LARDING. The best fat bacon should be used for larding, and slices of this, free from lean and rind, are cut into strips of equal size and thickness. For poultry, game, and small joints the strips of bacon are two inches long and about the eighthxviii MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. of an inch square; when the lardoons are required for large joints, or have to be taken right through the meat, the strips are longer and nearly half an inch square. Small lardoons on the breasts of birds, or on the upper surface of the meat, should be put in very regularly in intersecting lines, and at equal distances apart. To insert the lardoons, secure one end in the larding needle, and take up with the point as much of the meat to be larded as will keep the strip firm ; draw the needle through and the bacon with it, but leave the two ends out —these should be of the same length—and when the lard- ing is finished the meat should resemble a cake stuck with almonds. For larding or doubing the inside of meat, the bacon is rolled in seasoning before it is inserted : a large larding needle is used, and the strips are drawn right through the meat. Larding is a great improvement to meat or poultry of a dry nature. S Y R U P-M A K I N G. The best lump sugar should be used for making syrups, candies, and caramel ; coarser sugar is less easily clarified, and there is more waste in boiling it. The sugar is broken in large lumps into the preserving pan, and a pint of water is allowed to each pound of sugar for syrups, or about a third of a pint of water if the sugar is to be candied. To clarify this half the white of one egg is enough for six pounds of sugar. Beat the white of egg to a light froth, alone first, then add it to the water and beat the two together. When well mixed pour the greater part of the water on to the sugar, and let this stand until dissolved ; stir well, put the pan onMETHODS OF COOKING. xix the fire, and let the syrup boil for five minutes without disturbing it. Take the pan off the fire, let it stand two minutes, and then skim carefully and thoroughly. Put the pan back on the fire, and when the syrup begins to boil pour in a little of the water that was left over. Repeat the skimming until the syrup is quite clear, and then strain through muslin into a clean pan to be boiled again. There are several degrees of boiling sugar which may be learnt most accurately by means of a syrometer, but which may be judged of with a considerable degree of correctness by the ordinary thumb and finger test. The first stage is that of a thin syrup; if the finger is dipped in water and then in the liquid, and pressed against the thumb and quickly withdrawn, the syrup will form short threads that snap directly. Another five or ten minutes of rapid boiling will bring it to the second stage of a thick syrup, and the threads may then be drawn out to a great length without breaking. Long threads will also fall from the skimmer when this is raised. In the next two stages the syrup forms bubbles on the surface in boiling, small at first and then large ; if it is intended to make barley sugar or caramel the flavouring of lemon juice must now be added, but for candying the syrup is simply stirred until it rises in white foam almost to the top of the pan. It must now be taken out instantly and put on dishes, or it will resolve itself into a powder that will require more water and reboiling. Stirring is necessary in making barley-sugar, after the lemon juice is put in, which is at the rate of a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon- juice to three pounds of sugar. To test the barley-sugar, drop a little from the ladle or skimmer into a basin of cold water, take it out at once, and if it snaps clean and crisp between the teeth it is done, and must be taken off the fire immediately.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. XX Caramel is the last stage of syrup making; the sugar becomes a dark yellow colour, and emits a strong odour. The pan must be drawn away from the fire, and a little water thrown into it. In making orange-flower or cocoa-nut candy, these are thrown into the boiling syrup after it has been clarified and skimmed, and when it is very thick and white. It is then stirred until it rises in a mass, when it must be taken out immediately and laid on sheets of fine white paper. There is no great difficulty in making syrups and candies, but they require great care and constant watching, as if left on the fire a moment too long the syrup may be entirely spoilt, and be either wasted or require re-boiling. PRESERVING. In preserving fruit the pan containing it should at first be subjected to gentle heat, until the sugar is melted; the heat may then be increased until the boiling point is reached. Steady, regular heat must then be continued the whole time, together with constant stirring, or the fruit will burn and the preserve be rendered uneatable. The pots when filled must be left until they are stone cold before covering. The best way to do this is, first, to lay on the jam a round of tissue paper the exact size of the jar, and press it down. A second round of tissue paper, cut larger than the jar, is dipped on one side in beaten white of egg, laid over the top, and pressed down round the rim. The white of egg on the inner side will make the paper adhere firmly to the jar, and the top, when dry, will have the consistence of parchment.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. SECTION I.—SOUPS. 1.—SOUP STOCK (Quickly made) a, la Minute. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. ,.. Raw beef 1 lb. ... Cut into slices. 2... Carrot 1 lb. ... do. 3- Onion 1 lb. ... do. Celery 1 lb. ... do. t: Turnip 1 lb. ... do. 6... Cloves 2 7- Mix them all in a saucepan. 8... Water 1 quart ... Pour over. g... Salt 1 pinch ... Sprinkle over. io... Boil 15 minutes. ii... [' " Take off the fire. 12... Skim while off the fire. I3... Strain through a sieve. I4... Stale bread ... Cut in thin slices into the tureen. 15... Pour the stock over. 16... Chervil ... 1 handful Chop fine and sprinkle over stock. Note.—The chervil can be omitted if not liked. The meat and vegetables are eater, in France after the soup. 2—ANOTHER QUICKLY-MADE STOCK. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Water Gravy from roast meat 1 quart , ipint , Boil it. Add the gravy, and use it as stock for soups, gravies, &c.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. of meat Pour over 4 hours before serving. 3. -SOUP STOCK, made in an hour. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Beef, mutton, or ve.xl Carrots Turnips Onion Burnt onion Fat bacon Water i lb. Boiling water 1 i quart . Salt ... i pinch . Method. Cut into small slices, and put into a stewpan or saucepan. Cut lengthways, do. Stick a clove in the onion* Add to colour the soup. Cut into small pieces. Mix the whole with the meat. Pour over. Let all simmer over a slow fire until it begins to stick to the bottom of the stewpan or saucepan. Pour over. Sprinkle over. Let all boil on a quick fire f hour. Skim off the fat. Strain through a sieve or cloth. 4.—SOUP STOCK, the French Pot-au-fcu. Ingredients. Beef, or Mutton, or ... Veal Old fowl, old pigeon, old partridge, rabbits Bones from roast meat Cold water .. Quantities. 4 lbs. 4 lbs. 4 lbs. Method. i quart to each pound Shin, or leg of beef should be chosen, as it makes the best stock. Can be used when not too fat. For invalids most strengthening. Are excellent added to increase the flavour. Chopped, and thrown into the pot, add gelatine. Place the meat, which ought to be very fresh, on the chopped bones at the bottom of the pot; the meat should be tied up with string.SOUPS. 3 SOUP STOCK (continued). Ingredients. IO... Large carrots II... Turnips 12... Onion I3... Leeks 14... Burnt onion.. 15... Garlic Salt Watei Hot stock 01 water Parsley Stale bread ... Chopped cher- vil or grated parmesan ... Bag of char- coal Quantities. i handful 1 tea-cur ful 1 clove 1 bunch 3 oz. If liked Method. Add. Put the pot on the fire till it begins to boil, then draw to one side. Let it only simmer. When the water boils too fast it prevents the scum rising by coagulating the Albumen. Skim carefully. If the pot has boiled too quickly, add cold water to make the scum rise. Cut lengthways and throw into the pot. " do. do. Tie up a bunch and add. To colour the stock. Add if liked, but not during hot weather as garlic prevents stock from keeping well. Let it simmer 5 or 6 hours. Add as the stock evaporates to keep the meat covered. Tie up and add 1 hour before serving. Cut into thin slices and put into the tureen. Skim the grease off the stock ; if time allows do this when the stock is cold. Take out the vegetables with the skimmer. Take out the meat. Place a sieve or cloth over the tureen. Pour over gradually at first, to allow the bread to swell. Sprinkle over the soup. Keep the remainder of the stock covered in a cool place. In warm weather, boil it up each day. Plunge into the pot while on the fire in warm weather. This prevents it turning sour. B 2MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 4 5.—POT-AU-FEU {another Recipe). Ingredients. I... Beef 2... Mutton 3— 4... Water 5- Salt 6... 7... Onion 8... Mace 9... Leek 10... Celery 11... Chervil 12... Herbs 13... Pepper 14... Carrots 15... Turnips 16... 17... 18... 19... 20 .. Bread 21... 22... Chervil Quantities. 4 lbs. 4 lbs. ... 6 quarts 1 handful 1 piece 1 1 head 1 handful Method. Roll and tie with string, do. Put the meat in a saucepan. Pour over the meat. Add. Put the saucepan on a slow fire, and take off the scum as it rises. Stick with cloves. Tie all together in a bunch and put in the saucepan. To taste. Add. . Add. Boil all together gently for 4 or 5 hours. Remove the meat and the bunch of herbs, etc. Take the string off the meat. Skim the broth. Cut in thin slices into the tureen. Pour a portion of the broth gently through a sieve on to the bread ; when this is swelled pour in the remainder of the broth. Chop fine and throw in if liked. Serve the vegetables and meat separately. 6—CHICKEN BROTH. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Chicken One Dress and cut up. 2... Put the pieces in a stewpan. 3--- Salt ... 1 pinch... Sprinkle over. 4... Cold water ... 1 quart... Pour over till all is covered. 5--- Put it on the fire. 6... Boil it up one minute.5 SOUPS. CHICKEN BROTH (continued.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 7- Skim. 8... Pearl barley, 3 table- Add if liked rice or honey- spoonsful g... Let it simmer till reduced to half the quantity. IO... Strain through a sieve. 7.—CHICKEN BROTH, {another Method) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Old fowl Truss and tie up with string. 2... Put into a pot. Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. 4... Water Pour over till all is covered. 5- Put it to boil on a slow fire. 6... Skim as the scum rises. 7- Carrots 2...' -] 8... Turnips 9... Onions IO... Leek 1... Add immediately after skimming. ii... Parsley 1 bunch tied to- gether ^ 12... Let it boil 3 hours. I3... Take out the fowl and vegetable and serve separately. 14... Stale bread... Cut in slices into a tureen. 15... Strain the soup over and serve. 8 - MUTTON BROTH. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method I... Neck 2 or 3 lbs. Put it in the saucepan. 2... Water or stock 1 quart per Let it boil 2 hours and skim. lb. of meat6 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. MUTTON BROTH (continued.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 3... Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. 4... 5 — Turnips ") Celery C . \ Cut into 6... 7... Carrots ) Onion with a clove in it ... pieces V- ... - A A A Acid. 8... Pearl barley... If liked J g... Let it simmer over a slow fire 4 or 5 hours. 10... Skim off the fat. 11... Stale bread ... Toast and cut in small pieces. 12... Put the pieces of bread at the bottom of the soup tureen. 13... Place a cullender over the tureen and pour the soup in. 14... Serve the vegetables separately. 9—MEAT BROTH or Consomme. Order. Ingredients. j Quantities. Method. I... Beet 2 lbs. 2... Old fowl (half I roasted be- forehand) ... 3- Calf's foot ... I lb. 4... Odds and ends I lb. of meat clear- ed from fat... 5- Water or cold 2 quarts... Put together in a saucepan over a stock slow fire. 6... Skim as the scum rises. 7... Boil 2 or 3 hours without stopping. 8... Turnips 2 Add. g... Carots 2 do. 10... Celery I stick ... do. 11... Onions stuck with 1 clove 2 do. 12... Salt and pep- per do.7 SOUPS. MEAT BROTH ov Consomme {continued.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 13... Bunch of thyme and bay Add. 14... Let it simmer till there only remains 1 quart or rather less of broth. 15... Strain through a sieve. 10—VE GET ABLE SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Carrots .e. 2 Peel all the vegetables, cut them into 2... Turnips 2 ribbons, then cut them across into 3- 4... Parsnips Potatoes 2 2 very thin strips. 5- Cabbage 2 leaves... 6... Leek 1 V Cut into slices. 7... 8... Celery Onions 1 stick ... 2 small ... ) 9... Lettuce 2 leaves..: 10... Sorrel 2 or3 leaves 11... Chervil If liked ... Chop and mix with all the rest. 12... Fresh butter 2 ozs. ... Put to melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. 13... 14... Salt, pepper ... Sprinkle over. Throw all the prepared vegetables into the butter. 15... Mix well with a wooden spoon. 16... Meat stock or water According to num- ber of guests Pour over and let it simmer 1 hour. 17... Green peas ... 1 table 18... Asparagus heads spoonful 1 table spoonful 1 Add | hour before serving. 19... Stale bread (or Place in the tureen. rice already boiled) 20... Pour the boiling soup over. 21... Tomato sauce 2or3 table spoonsful Add if liked, when in season.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 8 ll.-THICK VEGETABLE SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... French beans •) 1 lb. Slice. 2... Lentils f of 3— Peas ) each. 4... Stock 2 quarts... Put to boil in a large saucepan. 5- Carrot 1... 6... Onions 2 Add. 7... Crush the vegetables when cooked, and pass them through a cullen- der into another saucepan. 8... Stock Add gradually to thin the soup. g... Put it on to boil 20 minutes. 10.,. Crumb of stale Cut in different patterns. bread 11.. Butter 1 oz. Melt in a frying pan. 12... Fry the bread on a slow fire, 13... When fried put the bread in a tureen. 14... Strain the soup over, and serve. 12—VEGETABLE SOUP, (« purde.) Order, i Ingredients. 1 Quantities. 12., 13- 14.. 15- 16.. 17., Haricot beans Peas Lentils Lettuce Carrots Turnips Parsnips Celery Leeks Onions Boiling water Butter Flour Stock Boiling stock Any of them ac cording to the season to make when mashed quart, or weigh 1 lb. oz. pinch pint 2 quarts S:rape, peel, wash, and cut up into a saucepan. Pour over to whiten them. Drain. Melt in another saucepan. Mix with the butter. Add gradually, stirring with a wooden spoon. Throw in the prepared vegetables. Pour over.SOUPS. 9 VEGETABLE SOUP, a puree (continued.) Ingredients. Salt and pepper Stale bread Butter Quantities. Add. When the vegetables are done, take them off the fire, pour into a cul- lender, and press through into another saucepan. When all are through, put the sauce- pan on the fire. Cut into pieces. Melt in a frying pan over a slow fire. Fry the bread. Pour the soup into a tureen, and put the fried bread on the top. Serve hot. 13.-GREEN PEA SOUP. Older. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Green Peas ... i quart ... Shelled. Onions 3 Cut in quarters or slices. 3- Lettuces 3 Washed and shredded. 4... Mint 6 leaves... 1 5-- Ham 2 slices ... Cut thin. 6... Butter 2 ozs. ... Melt in a saucepan. 7... Water 1 quart ... Stew the peas, onions, lettuces, mint, ham and butter, in water gently for one hour. 8... Stock 3 pints ... Add to the foregoing. 9... French Rolls 2 Add the crumb only. 10... Boil for one hour. 11... Spinach 2 good Boil, squeeze dry and add to the handsful soup to colour it. 12... Rub the soup through a sieve. 13... Young Peas... 1 pint ... Boil separately and add to the soup. 14... Sugar 1 lump ... Add to the soup, boil up and serve.lo MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 14—CABBAGE SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quan titles. Method. I... Spring cab- bage I... ... Wash well and cut into slices or quarters. 2... Put the slices in a pan. Boiling water Pour over. 4... Let the cabbage steep ten minutes to whiten it. 5- Drain through a sieve. 6... Slices bacon... 4 slices ... Place at the bottom of a stewpan. 7... Put the slices of cabbage above. 8... g... Pickled Pork Sausage ... 1 lb. "do. [ Place above the cabbage. 10... Carrots 2 11... Turnips 2... 12... Onions 2... 13... Leek 1... 14... Celery i stick ... Cut in slices and add. 15... Stock, or meat To cover Pour over till the whole is covered. broth 16... Let it boil two hours. 17... Potatoes Add if liked one hour before serving. 18... Stale bread ... Cut in thin slices into a tureen. 19... Pour in the soup and serve. Note.—This soup is not good warmed up. Beef may be used instead of bacon. 15.-LENTIL SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 4... 6... 7... 8... Lentils Stock Carrot Onions Stock Stale bread ... I lb. ... I quart. . 1 2 \ pint ... | Boil all together. When soft press through a cullender. Pour into the cullender to help the vegetables through. Boil 15 or 20 minutes. Cut into a tureen, pour the soup over and serve.SOUPS. II 16.-HARICOT BEAN SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... White hari- i pint cots 2... Carrots 2... 3- Onion I... A... Stock i quart 5- Salt and pepper 6... 7- 8... g... Butter I oz. 10... ii... Stale bread ... 12... Let them steep all night, wash and drain them. Add to the beans, and boil altogether. Put a cullender on another savcepan. Pour the vegetables in and press them through. Put the saucepan on the fire again. Mix with the soup. Let it simmer 15 or 20 minutes. Cut into a tureen. Pour the soup over and serve. 17.-ONION SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Onions Butter Flour Salt, pepper... Hot water ... Yolks of eggs Milk Stale bread 6... 2 oz. 1 dessert spoonful 3 pints 1 or 2 ... 1 or 2 table spoonsful Peel, cut into slices, then chop. Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. Put the onions in and let them brown, stirring to prevent burning. Sprinkle over when the butter is half-browned. Sprinkle over. When the contents of the saucepan are quite brown, draw it away from the fire. Pour over gradually, put the sauce- pan on the fire again and let it boil 10 minutes. ) Beat up together in a bowl with a j wooden spoon. Take the saucepan off the fire, and when the contents no longer boil, pour in the eggs, &c, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon. Cut into a tureen. Pour the hot soup over the bread, let it stand a minute and serve.12 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 18-ONION SOUP WITH CHEESE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Butter Onions Flour Water or whit stock Salt, pepper Stale bread Gruyere cheese Parmesan cheese Note.—The soup can before pouring it into the 2 oz. ... Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. 6 Cut in thin slices and blanch in boil- ing water. Throw them into the hot butter, but do not brown them, dessert Sprinkle over the onions, and stir spoonful them with a wooden spoon, quart ... Add. To taste, but very little salt is re- quired. Let it boil up. Cut in thin slices into the tureen. I lb. ... Grate very fine. do. Mix the two kinds of cheese together and put a layer on the bread. Pour some of the soup on the bread. Put in another layer of bread sprin- kled with cheese, and pour in the remainder of the soup. Let it stand for f hour, but keep the tureen very hot. be improved by adding half a pint of boiling cream to it tureen. 19.—SPINACH SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Sorrel 1 lb. ... 2... Lettuce i lb. ... 1 Wash in a pan through several 3- Chervil I oz. )■ waters, and carefully pick the 4... Spinach 2 lbs. spinach. 5- Parsley 3 sprigs... 6... Chop coarsely and mix. 7... Butter 1 oz. Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. 8... Put in all the chopped leaves. 9... Salt and Sprinkle over. pepperSOUPS. SPINACH SOUP (continued.) Order. Ingredients Quantities. Method. 10... ... Stir all up together with a wooden spoon, taking care not to let it burn. II... Meat stock ... 3 pints ... Pour over. 12... Let it simmer 20 or 30 minutes. 13... Butter 1 oz. Add if liked just before it is done. 14... Bread Cut in thin slices into a tureen. 15... Pour the boiling soup on to the bread. 16... Yoke of e<?g... 1 or 2 ... 17... Stock or cream 2or3 table spoonsful I Beat together in a bowl. 18... When the soup has quite ceased boiling, pour in the contents of the bowl, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon. ig... Let it remain 5 minutes drawn back from the fire. 20... Serve it up hot. 20.—SPLIT-PEA SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Split peas 1 pint Put to soak at least 12 hours in water, to which a large pinch of salt has been added. 2... Drain and throw away the water. Put the peas into a saucepan. 4... Water Cover the peas with it. 5- Carrots f \ 6... Turnips Peel, cut lengthways and add 7- Potatoes z: 8... Leek .. 9... 10... Celery Chervil 1 stick I If liked f Add in a bunch. 11... Onions 2 or 3 J 12... Let all simmer ij hours, stirring from time to time with a wooden spoon to prevent burning.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 14 SPLIT-PEA SOUP, (continued.) Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Stock Rice, cooked b ef orehand, or bread fried in butter. 3 pints Take out the onions, leek, and chervil. Put all the rest into a cullender over another saucepan. Press through the cullender with a wooden spoon. Add gradually, stirring well. Put into a tureen. Pour the soup over and serve. 21.-POTATO AND SORREL SOUP. Ingredients Quantities. Sorrel ... i handful Butter ... i oz. Salt and pep- per Potatoes ...j 6... Water ... 3 pints ... Method. Chop fine. Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. When the butter is melted, add the chopped sorrel. Sprinkle over, and stir well with a wooden spoon. Keep it hot. Peel and cut into slices. Pour with the potatoes into another saucepan, and let them boil. When the potatoes are ready, place a cullender over the saucepan with the sorrel in. Pour the potatoes and the water they have boiled in, into the cullender. Let the water run through, and mix it well with the sorrel. Pour into the tureen. Put the slices of potato above the sorrel instead of bread. Serve hot.SOUPS. 15 22.-SORREL SOUP WITH CREAM. 1 er. Ingredients. Quantities. iVlClULKl. Sorrel 2 hands- Wash and pick, and chop fine with a full ... knife. 2... Butter 2 oz. Melt together the sorrel and butter. 3-v. Flour 1 dessert Sprinkle in and stir well to mix the spoon- ingredients. ful 4... Water 3 pints ... Add. 5- Salt, pepper... To taste. 6... Cream 1 pint ... Add when the soup begins to boil. 7... Yolk of egg ... 1 Beat up in the cream. 8... Stale bread ... Cut in slices into a tureen. 9... Pour the soup on to the bread and serve. 23-PUMPKIN SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities Method. I... Pumpkin i quarter Peel and take out the seeds. 2... Cut into dice. 3- Water or milk 3 quarts Boil in a saucepan. 4... When it boils throw in the pumpkin. 5 — Salt or sugar Add. 6... Let it boil till soft. 7... 8... Mash well with a wooden spoon. Let it simmer, uncovered, on the fire. 9... Strain into another saucepan. 10... Pour away the water. 11... Put the cullender on the saucepan again. 12... Milk or water 2 or 3 Pour over the pumpkin to help it drops ... to pass through the cullender. Add to the pumpkin when it has all 13... Butter 2 oz. passed through 14... 15- Milk Sugar and salt 1 pint 1 pinch ) Boil in another saucepan. 16... When the milk boils pour it gradually on to the crushed pumpkin, stirring continually with a wooden spoon.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. i6 PUMPKIN SOUP {continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 17... Stale bread ... Cut in thin slices into a tureen. 18... Pour the soup over. 19... Orange flower I tea- Add (if liked and if you have used water spoonful sugar). 20... Serve hot. 24.-SOUPE MAIGRE (without Meat). Order. ! Ingiedients. 1 Quantities. Method. Fresh or dried vegetables Cold water with dried vegetables Boiling water with fresh vegetables Salt, pepper Stale bread .. Butter Yolks of eggs Water 2 lbs. 2 quarts 2 quarts Put in a saucepan. 1 oz. 2 £ pint Pour over the vegetables in sufficient quantity to cover them well. Flavour to taste. Boil thoroughly. Cut in thin slices and place at the bottom of the soup tureen. Put a strainer on the tureen. Pour the boiling soup into it. Add to the soup in the tureen. Beat up in a basin. Add to the eggs drop by drop, mixing them together with a wooden spoon. Pour the mixture gradually into the soup, when it has ceased boiling, and serve. 25. — VEGETABLE SOUP, (Without Meat). Order. Ingredient!. Quantities. Method. I... Carrots 2 Cut into dice. 2... Parsnips 2 do. 3~ Turnips 2 do. 4... Onions 2 do.SOUPS. VEGETABLE SOUP (continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5- Leeks 2 do. 6... Butter i lb. ... Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. 7- Put in the vegetables and brown lightly 8... Sorrel 6 leaves... Chop fine and add to the browned vegetables. g... Celery | stick ... do. io... Lettuce 1 do. ii... Chervil 1 handful do. i 12... Green peas ... 1 pint ... Add when in season if liked. I3... French beans do. 14... Asparagustops Broad beans... do. 15... do. 16... Stir the vegetables in the saucepm gently 2 or 3 times with a wooden Boiling water spoon. 17... 3 quarts... Pour over the vegetables. 18... Salt, pepper... Flavour to taste. ig... Boil for 3 hours. 20... Butter 2 oz. Add to the soup and stir well. 21... Pour the soup into the tureen. 22... Bread Cut in slices Fry in butter and add to the soup; serve very hot. 26—CABBAGE SOUP {without meat). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... Cabbages Boiling water Salt, pepper... 2 ... 2 quarts Choose young cabbages and take off the outer leaves. Cut the hearts in small pieces into a shallow basin filled with water. Throw the cabbage into a saucepan of boiling water, after draining it from the cold water. Add to taste. cMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. t8 CABBAGE SOUP (continued). Ingredients. j Quantities. Method. Butter Crust of bread Carrots Onions Turnips Stale bread Add. Add. ! Cut in dice and add. do. do. Cut in thin slices into the tureen. Pour the boiling soup gradually on to the bread to swell it. Let it stand for ^ hour and serve very hot. Note.—This soup cannot be warmed up again. 27.-FLOUR SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Fine flour ... Cold water ... Milk Salt & sugar 3 table- spoonsful A few drops pint If liked . lix in a saucepan with a wooden spoon. Take care to leave no lumps. Add gradually while mixing, and stir 8 minutes. Sprinkle over. Put it on the fire and stir one way all the time. Let it boil a few minutes. Pour into the tureen and serve. 28.-EICE SOUP (I). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rice 3 table- Put into a soup plate. 2... Water spoonsful Pour over till all is covered. 3- 4... Let it steep 3 hours. Wash well and let it drain*SOUPS. 19 RICE SOUP (continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5-" IVlllK ... 2 quarts Boil in a saucepan 6... When the milk boils throw in the 7... Draw to the side of the fire. 8... Stir with a wooden spoon to prevent burning. 9... Let it simmer gently 3 hours. 10... Salt Z 1 pinch Sprinkle over. 11... Powd. sugar 2 spoons- Sprinkle over. ful 12... When a skin forms on the top it is done. 29-RICE SOUP (II). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Carolina rice 4 OZ. Put into a pan and wash in several waters, rubbing between the hands. 2... Drain well. 3— Cold stock ... i pint ... Pour on to the rice, and leave it till absorbed. 4... Hot stock ... 2 quarts Pour over the rice. 5- Salt and pep- Sprinkle over very slightly, because per the stock is already seasoned. 6... Veal gravy ... 1 pint ... Add at will to give a better flavour. 7- Let all simmer \ hour without stirring until the grains are soft, but not mashed. 8... Pour into a tureen and serve. 30.-RICE SOUP (III) .-(Simpler). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Stock I quart ... Warm in a saucepan. 2... Boiled rice ... 2 ozs. ... Throw into the boiling stock and let it simmer 1 hour. 3- When served the rice should be firm* c 2MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, 20 31.-RICE MILK SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. • Method. I... Carolina rice 4 oz. Wash well in several waters, and let it soak 2 or three hours in the last water. 2... ... ... ... ... Put it with the water into a saucepan on the fire, and let it boil till the rice has absorbed the water. 3 — Milk 2 quarts... Boil in another saucepan. 4... ... When the milk boils pour it over the rice. ... Stir well for a £ hour. 6... Salt 1 pinch j 7... Sugar 1 pinch > Add. 8... Bay-leaf J 9... Let it boil another |- hour. 10... ... ... When the rice is done it will be soft, but not mashed. 11.. When the soup is done a skim forms at the top. 12... ... Take out the bay-leaf. 13... Put the saucepan near you on the stove. 14... Yolks of eggs 2 Break in a bowl. 15... Cold milk ... 2 tea- Pour drop by drop on the eggs, spoonsful mixing with a spoon. 10... When the milk has ceased boiling, add the eggs and stir. I7... Serve. 32.-MAIZE SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Maize flour ... Milk, water, or broth Salt & sugar Butter 3 table spoonsful i\ pint If liked I 02. Mix in an enamelled saucepan. ) Put it on a slow fire. Stir constantly to prevent lumps. Let it simmer 1 hour. Add. Add when nearly done. When the soup is quite liquid, serve.SOUPS. 21 33.-SAGO SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. ; I... Stock 1 quart ... Put to boil in a saucepan. 2... Sago 3 table Pour by degrees into the boiling spoons- stock. ful to each pint of stock 3- ... Let it simmer \ hour. 4... ... Pour it into the tureen and serve hot. 0/ _ Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Milk I quart ... Put to boil in a saucepan. 2... Sago 3 table- Pour gradually into the boiling milk. spoonsful to each pint of milk 3" Stir with a wooden spoon to prevent burning. 4... Salt Sprinkle with one hand and stir with 5... Sugar to taste 1 pinch | the other. 6... Let it simmer \ hour. 7... Pour into a tureen and serve. 35.-MACARONI SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 4... 5- 6... Naples mac- aroni Clear stock ... Parmesan cheese Mustard Salt Loaf sugar ... 3 oz. ... 3 pints ... 2 table spoonsful 1 teaspoon ful 1 pinch ... 1 pinch ... Soak \ nour in cold water and cut into inch lengths. Drain and put in a stewpan, Boil and pour over, 1 ^Add. j22 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. MACARONI SOUP {continued). Order. Ingredients. 9... 10... Stock Marsala wine Quantities. I quart ... 1 wine glass Method. Let it simmer 1 hour, stirring fre- quently. Add. Add. Boil slowly 10 minutes longer, and serve with a separate dish of grated Parmesan cheese. 36.—VERMICELLI SOUP. Follow the preceding receipt, substituting vermicelli for macaroni, and boiling 10 minutes less. 37.-SEMOLINA SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Stock 1 quart ... Put to boil in a saucepan. 2... Semolina 8 dessert Drop it into the boiling stock, stirring spoonsful all the time. 3- Boil it | hour, stirring constantly to prevent lumps. 4... Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. 5- Pour into a tureen and serve. 38.-SEMOLINA MILK SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 5- 4... 5- Milk Semolina Powrd. sugar Flavouring ... i quart ... 6 dessert spoonsful 1 tea- spoonful to taste Put to boil in a saucepan. Drop into the boiling milk, stirring with the other hand. Boil | hour stirring all the time to prevent lumps. 1 Add. Pour into a tureen and t serve.23 SOUPS. 39.-TAPIOCA SOUP (I) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Water Tapioca Salt, pepper. Butter 1 quart ... 4 dessert spoons- ful Boil in a saucepan. Sprinkle into the boiling water, stirring with the other hand. Let it boil, still stirring. Sprinkle over. Add, constantly stirring. Let it boil f hour. Pour into a tureen and serve. 40.-TAPIOCA SOUP (II). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. ... 0 1 . Ml otocK 01 miiK Rather Put into a saucepan on the fire, and more let it boil well. than h Pmt per head 1 cipiUC (X • • • 1 dessert Pour into the boiling liquid, stirring spoonful with the other hand. per head 3- Boil f hour, stirring all the time to prevent lumps. 4... Salt Add. 5... When the tapioca is done, it will be transparent. 41.-MILK SOUR Order. Ingredients. j Quantities. Method. I... Fresh milk ... I quart ... Pour into a saucepan. 2... Salt 1 pinch ... Sprinkle in while on the fire. Butter 1 oz. Add if liked. . 4... Take the milk oft' the fire as soon as it boils. 5- Stale bread ... Cut into a tureen. 6... Pour the boiling milk over. Powd. sugar To taste Add if liked. 8... ; Let it soak an instant, then serve. [MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 24 42—BREAD SOUP, or Panada. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Crusts of 1 lb. ... bread 2... Stock 1 quart ... 3- Salt and pepper 4... 5- Fresh butter... 2 oz. 6... 7... 8... 9... Yolk of egg ... 1 10... Milk or cream few drops 11... B ireak in small pieces into a saucepan. Pour over the bread. Season well to take away the insipid taste of the bread. Let it simmer on a slow fire 1 hour. Add before taking off the fire. Mix with a wooden spoon. Let it boil a few minutes. Draw the saucepan to the side of the fire. ) Beat up gently, and add to the j soup when it has done boiling. Serve. Note.—For children this can be made entirely with milk. 43—FORCEMEAT-BALL SOUR Crder. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Eggs Milk 4 • 1 \ Pint 2... 3»* Butter 2 OZ. [ Mix to a paste in a pan with a 4... Salt i pinch f wooden spoon. 5- White pepper 1 pinch 6... Flour- 1 pinch J 7... 8... Flour Sprinkle over a paste-board. Pour the contents of the pan over. 9... Roll into balls or ovals. 10.. Butter i'ik Z Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. 1 r... 12... Put the balls in to fry. When they ^re brown, put them in the soup tureen. 13... Boiling stock 3 pints ... Pour over the balls and serve.25 SOUPS. 44.-BOURGEOIS SOUP. Order. Ingredient;. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 6... 7... 8... g... 10... 11... 12.,. Butter, drip- ping or lard Onion Tomato Salt and pep- per Vegetable stock Burnt onion... Butter Stale bread in slices i lb. . i large 1 1 quart . 1 2 1 oz. f Put in a saucepan over a slow fire. Let it brown. Cut in quarters and throw into the saucepan. Sprinkle over for seasoning. Pour into the saucepan, a little at a time. Let it simmer f of an hour on a slow fire. Strain the soup into another sauce- pan. Put it again on the fire. Throw in. Add if liked. Cut into a tureen, add the soup, and serve. 45.-ITALIAN PASTE SOUP. Order. Ingiedients. Quantities. Method. I... 4- Fresh butter... Baked flour ... Yolk of egg ... Cold water ... I OZ. 4 oz. 1 . 1 wine class Rub together till perfectly mixed. Beat up together and stir into the flour. 5-- 6... 7... 8... g... 10... 11... 12... Stock • Parmesan cheese Marsala wine 2 quarts... 3 table- spoons- ful ^ wine gls. Knead it into a stiff paste and roll out as thin as a shilling. Cut into strips an inch long and the eighth of an inch broad. Set it in a cool airy place for 5 or 6 hours. Boil. Put in the paste. Grate and add. Add. Boil fast 20 minutes and serve with grated Parmesan on a dish.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 26 46.-RICE AND TOMATO SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... „. Kice I oz. Wash well in cold water. 2... vvater ... $ pint ... Swell the rice in this on a slow fire. 3- Butter i oz. ... Add. 4— Salt To taste. r J Boil for twenty minutes. 6... Tomatoes 4 Skin and cut them in pieces, boil for a minute or two, and press them through a sieve. 7- Water or i or i j Add as much as may be required. stock quart 8... Cayenne A small pinch if liked. g... Butter I oz. If the soup is made with water stir in the butter before serving. 47.-ALMOND SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Neck of veal I lb. ) Scrag-end of neck of mut- ton Chop into small pieces and put into a large stewpan. 3- Turnip lib. ... Cut into the stewpan. 4... Water 5 quarts Add. 5- Set it on the fire and let it boil gently till reduced to 2 quarts. 6... Strain through a hair sieve into a clean saucepan. 7- Almonds 6 oz. Blanch, beat fine, and add. 8... Thick cream \ pint ... Add. 9... Cayenne pep- per To taste Add. 10... French rolls... 3 Have ready small round dinner rolls. 11... Jordan al- monds 2 oz. Blanch, cut lengthways, and stick slantways round the edge of the rolls and over the top. 12.,. When you dish up, pour the soup upon the rolls. NoTE.—These rolls look like hedge-hogs, and hence the name of hedge hog soup has been given to it by French cooks.SOUPS. 48.-0X-CHEEK SOUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. !«»• Ox-cheek lb 2 DS. Rrpat c\ n n wocn fill r\F*rfe>n1-\\r rO^on •LMCrtrv cwlU. WclSH 1111 UC11CLL1\ LlCd.il. bones 2... Lay them in warm water. 3 • Salt Throw in to bring out the slime. 4... Butter 2 OZ. Put into a large stewpan and lay the fleshy side of the cheek-bone on it. 5— Shank of ham | lb. Cut in slices and add. 6... Celery \ stick ... Cut into the soup. 7... Large onions 8... Carrots Parsnip \ \ Slice and add. 9... 10... Beetroot 2 slices J 11... Set over a moderate fire for fifteen minutes. 12... Water 4 quarts Add and let it stew till reduced to 2 quarts. 13... Strain into a tureen. 14.. 15... Vermicelli ... 2 oz. Scald and add. Serve. 49.-MOCK TURTLE SOUP. Ingredients. Quantities Method. Calf's head Stock Onion Carrots Shank of ham Head of celery Cloves Peppercorns... Sweet herbs... Lemon Peel 3 quarts. 1 or 2 3 or 4 1 bunch A little • Scald with the skin on, taking out the bones, and cut into pieces about 2 inches square. Wash and clean these well and put into a stewpan, boil for 1 hour. Put into another stewpan. Add. Stew these well till the broth be re- duced to 2 quarts, then strain into the stewpan containing the head.28 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. MOCK TURTLE SOUP (continued.) Ingredients. Quantities Method. Knotted marjoram Savoury Thyme Parsley J Cloves Cayenne pep- per Green onions Shalot Mushrooms ... Madeira or Marsala Stock Flour Yolk of eggs Lemon juice... Boiled force- meat balls.. 1 A sprig [ each | j 2 A pinch 2 or 3 | i f io small i pint .. i teacup- fui i tea- spoonful J lemon Chop and add. Add. Chop and add. Chop and add. Add. Stew all these together gently till the soup be reduced to 2 quarts. Heat in another saucepan. Mix smooth in it. Add. Keep stirring these over a gentle fire till near boiling. Add this to the soup, stirring as it is poured in. Let all stew together i hour or more. Add when you take it off the fire. 50,—HARE SOUP. Ingredients. Quantities. 6...I Large old hare Blades of mace Salt Large onions Red herring ... Red wine Water pinch i pint 3 qua rts J 'I Method. Dress, wash, dry, and cut into joints, then cut into small pieces and put in a baking dish. Add,29 SOUPS. HARE SOUP (continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Methoa. 8... Bake 3 hours in a quick oven. g... Strain into a stewpan. 10... Sago 3 OZ. Have ready in water. 11... Liver of the hare Put 2 minutes in scalding water, and rub it through a hair sieve with the back of a wooden spoon. 12... Put it into the soup with the sago. 13... Butter i'ib. Add. 14... Set over the fire and keep stirring, but do not let it boil. 51—PARTRIDGE SOUP. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. part- Old ridges Ham Celery Onions Butter Water Peppercorns., Fried bread ... Stewed celery 3 slices , 1 stick 2 or 3 2 oz. 3 quarts 5 Dress, skin and cut into small pieces. Add. Add. Slice and add. Fry all in butter till perfectly brown, but take great care not to burn them. Put them in a stewpan. Add. Add. Boil slowly till reduced to about a pint. Strain into a tureen. Add. Add. Serve. 52.-STRONG FISH-STOCK. Ingredients. Quantities. Fish 4 lbs. All kinds of fresh-water fish, and most salt-water fish, together with any heads or other remains of fresh fish, can be used for this stock.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 3o STRONG FISH-STOCK (continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 2... Carrots 2 Scrape and clean, and cut in dice. 3- Onions 2 Cut in quarters. 4- Celery i head ... 5- Shalots 2 6... Butter 2 OZ. Melt on the fire, and fry the vege- tables in it. 7- Herbs A bunch Parsley, thyme, marjoram, &c. 8... Salt, pepper... To taste. g... Water 2 quarts io... White wine ... \ pint ... Add to the water. ii... Cut the fish in pieces, and put them with the fried vegetables and the herbs in the water. 12... Boil gently for three hours, skimming it as the scum rises. Strain through a hair sieve, and use as required. 53—BOUILLABAISSE (afish soup.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Carp I lb. 1 Perch i lb. Wash, scale and clean the fish ; cut 3- Whiting i ib. y them in nice pieces, and put them 4- Gurnet i ib. | in a saucepan. 5- Tench i ib. j 6... Mussels 20 shelled Add to the fish. 7- Salad oil i pint .. Pour in gradually. 8... Onions 5 cut in\ quarters [ Add to the fish, with cloves stuck in Q... Bay leaf i the onions. IO... Lemon 2 slices J II... Salt, Pepper... Sufficient to flavour. 12 .. Cold water or 2 quarts Pour over the fish until all is Fish stock... covered.SOUPS. 31 BOUILLABAISSE (continued). Order. Ingredients ngre len s. Ouantities yuan 1 les. Method. 13... White wine ... \ pint ... Add to the stock or water. 14... Powdered saf- 1 tea- Add. fron spoonful 15... Boil on a brisk fire for a quarter of an hour. 16... Parsley root... I To be scraped and added to the soup. 17... Boil up quickly. 18... Toast In sip- Soak them in the soup and put in a pets deep dish. ig... Pour in the soup through a sieve, and dress the pieces of fish nicely in the dish. Note.—This dish is a kind of stew of fish, and both fresh and salt-water fish can be used for it, such as plaice, soles, &c. It should be highly spiced. 54.-FISH SOUP WITH HERBS. Ingredients. Quantities. Fish stock Lettuces Sorrel Chervil Celery Eggs Fish stock Stale bread ij pint .., 2 1 hand-"") ful I 1 hand- \ ful I 1 head J 2 yolks \ pint Boil up. The hearts only, chopped fine. Chopped fine. Add the herbs to the boiling stock and simmer gently until they are tender. Beat up the yolks of eggs with the stock, put on the fire for a few minutes, and then add to the soup. Cut in thin slices and soak in stock. Pour the soup on to the bread in the tureen.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 55.-FISH SOUP. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Plaice or brill or skate Onions Parsley Water Butter Salt, Pepper. Catsup Sherry 1 of either kind 2 3 sprigs... 2 quarts... i table spoonful i wine glass ... Clean, skin, and cut the flesh in small fillets. Boil the head, skin and bones with the onions and parsley until the water is reduced to i quart, then skim and strain it. Brown and add to the stock to colour and thicken it. Put in the fillets and boil for \ hour. To taste. Add. Add, boil up and serve. 56.-OYSTER SOUP. Order. Ingredients. I... Fish stock ... Oysters 3 — 4... Butter 5- Flour 6... 7... Quantities. Method. quarts Same as described at No. 52. 3 dozen... Beard them and scald in their own liquor. Add the liquor to the stock. 2 oz. ... Add to the stock, oz. ... Sprinkle into the stock to thicken it. Boil gently for 15 or 20 minutes. Put in the oysters, stir well, and make the soup very hot, but do not let it boil. Note.—A good stock for oyster soup can be made by boiling down a cod's head and any bones and skin of fresh fish, flavoured with vegetables and herbs, and thickened with butter and flour.SOUPS. 33 57-CRAWFISH SOUP {Bisque.) Ingredients. Quantities Method. I... Crawfish 2... Onions 3- Sweet herbs. 4... Salt, pepper. 5... Rich stock . 6... 7... Bread Good stock ... Cayenne pep- per Fried bread .. 40 2 A bouquet I pint 1 slice 2 quarts A pinch.., Clean and wash them well, and put them in a stewpan. Slice and add to the crawfish. Add. Add to taste. Pour over the crawfish. Simmer them for ten minutes ; when red they are sufficiently cooked. Drain them, pull off the tails, pick out the meat, and set the tails aside. Pound the shells, claws, and the meat in a mortar to a paste. Soak in the liquor the crawfish were boiled in. Dry the bread before the fire and pound with the crawfish, adding more liquor as required. Strain through a cullender and keep the mixture hot without boiling it. Pour over it boiling hot. Add the tails of the crawfish. Add to the soup. Put in the tureen. Pour the soup on to the bread and serve very hot, 58.—WATER SOUCHY. Order, j Ingredients. Quantities. Fish Salt, pepper- coins Method. 4 lbs. Any small fish can be used, but the best kinds are flounders, whiting, soles, perch, tench and eels. Clean the fish and remove the flesh from the bones. Put the heads, bones and skins in a saucepan with water to cover them. To taste.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 34 WATER SOUCHY (continued). Order. 5- 6... 8... g.., 12... 13- 14. 15. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Cayenne Parsley roots Minced parsley Lemon juice.. Brown bread and butter A pinch.., 2 2 spoons- ful I lemon Add. Add in short lengths split fine. Stew for about an hour to make a strong broth, then strain. Cut the fish in small pieces. Put it in a clean stewpan with the broth and parsley roots. Clear off the scum as it rises, and stew the fish for 10 or 12 minutes, taking care that it is not broken. Add 2 minutes before dishing. Add the juice of half a lemon. Take out the fish carefully with a slice and put in a deep dish. Pour the broth over it, removing only the parsley roots ; serve very hot. Neatly cut slices to be sent to table with the souchy. 59.-TO CLEAR SOUPS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Gravy soup ... Whites of eggs Egg shells ... Hot water 1 quart ... Boil up well and stir. Beat up in a cup of cold water. Break and beat up with the whites. Throw suddenly into the soup and cease stirring. Draw the pot to the side. Let it stand 10 or 12 minutes. Wring out a fine cloth in hot water. Put it over a basin and pour the soup gently through it. Take off the cloth very carefully. Let the soup stand till next day, then pour into a clean saucepan without disturbing any sediment there may be, boil up and serve.FISH. 35 SECTION II.^-FISH. 1 — BRILL, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Brill 1 Empty and wash out the inside. 2... Salt Rub a little over the outside to re- move the slime, and wash it several times. 3... Cut off the fins. 4... Hot water ... Put the fish into nearly boiling water. 5... Let it simmer gently until the skin begins to crack. 6... Dish it on a folded napkin. Lobster or An- Serve separately. chovy sauce 2, —BRILL, cl la Parisienne. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... £>11H ... Small one Empty, wash, and dry it. 2... Make a few incisions in the back. 3--- Oil 1 wine Put in a stewpan. glassful 4... OlOCK ... \ cupful Add. 5- White wine ... 1 wine Add. glassful 6... Salt and pep- To taste Add. per 7- Bunch of herbs Add. 8... Put in the fish, and stew gently over a slow fire. 9... When done, strain it, and put it on a hot dish. 10... Stock 1 pint ... Put on the fire, and reduce to half the quantity. 11... Minced par- 1 tea Mix with the stock. sley- spoonful 12... Pour it over the fish and serve. D 2MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 3 • 3.—COD, salted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cod Let it soak in water 24 hours, chang- ing the water several times. 2... Boil in the last water. 3- Egg sauce Serve separately. 4.- SALT COD, a la creme. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cod .... Prepare as in preceding receipt, skin, and take out the bones. 2... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a stewpan, but do not let it brown. 3... Salt Sprinkle over. t Milk or cream i cupful Mix in gradually, stirring with a wooden spoon. D"' Put in the pieces of cod. 6... Let it simmer uncovered till the sauce is thick. 7... ... Slide the whole on to a dish that can go in the oven. 8... Bread crumbs Place a thick layer on the fish. g... Butter I OZ. Melt in a saucepan and pour over the bread. 10... ... Place another layer of bread crumbs on the butter. 11... ... Put it to bake, and serve in the dish it is baked in. 12... Fried bread ... To garnish the dish. 5. -FRESH COD, boiled. Oi der. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cod's heac Rub a little salt down the bone and and shoulder? thick part, and tie a fold or two oi wide tape round. 2 . Put it in a fish kettle. Cold water ... I Cover the fish.FISH. 37 FRESH COD, boiled.—{continued.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Salt 4 oz. to 1 gallon of 5... Vinegar water 3 tea spoonsful [.Add. ] O... Horse-radish A little ... i 7... 8... Bring the water to the verge of boiling. Let it then simmer gently \ hour or more. 9... Skim well and carefully. 10... Drain the cod and slip it off the strainer on to a folded napkin. 11... Parsley, lemon and the cod's liver Garnish the dish. Note.—Crimped cod requires a shorter time to boil. 6.-^-0OD, carried. Ingredients. Quantises. | Method. Cold cod Butter Onion White stock... Butter Flour Curry powder Cream or milk Salt and cay- enne 1 lb. . 3 oz. . 1 sliced . % pint 1 oz. £ oz. 1 tea spoonful ipint .., To taste Take from the bones. Melt in a frying-pan. Brown in the butter. Fry the fish a nice brown. Put the butter and onions in a stew- pan. Thicken the stock with the butter and flour, and put into the stewpan. Add, and let the whole simmer for 10 minutes. Add. Add. Put in the fish, boil up and serve. Note.—Any remains of cold fish can be dressed in this way. It is much improved if the curry powder is simmered with the stock the day before it is required.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 33 7 —HADD OCK, baked. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Haddock Bread Crumbs Minced herbs Salt and pepper Nutmeg and cayenne Butter Yolk of egg .. Yolks of eggs Bread crumbs and minced parsley i large 4 oz. i oz. to taste [ a pinch ofeach J 13- 14. i5« NOTE.- baked in Clean thoroughly, dry, and wrap in a cloth. Mix together. Work in with the bread crumbs, &c. Beat and mix with the preceding to make a forcemeat. Fill the body of the haddock with the forcemeat, and sew up the opening. Curl the fish round and fasten the tail in the mouth with a skewer. Dip the fish in. Roll the fish in. Dip it again in the egg and put it in a baking dish. Clarify and pour over the fish. Bake for 1 hour, or more, if very large. Serve with melted butter. —Haddock can also be cooked like Herrings and Whiting, and Pike can be the same manner as Haddock. 8.—HERRINGS, broiled. 2 well beaten Butter Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Fresh herrings Thoroughly clean, scale and dry them. 2... Put them in a deep dish. 3- Salt and pep- per ... [ Sprinkle over lightly. 4... Chopped par- 1 sley and chives ■ - JFISH. 39 HERRINGS, broiled—(continued.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. K... 6... 7... 8... 9... Olive oil A few drops Pour on each herring. Let them soak 1 hour, turning two or three times. Warm a gridiron. Broil the fish without drying them. Serve on a bed of parsley. 9—HERRINGS, baked. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. It.. 2... 3- 4- 5- 6... 7... 8... Herrings Salt, pepper, and pounded cloves Vinegar Bay-leaves ... Thick paper... 4 2 or 3 ... Clean, wash, and lay them on a board. Rub well into the fish. Lay them in a pie-dish. Pour over till the herrings are covered. Add. Cover over the dish. Put them into a moderate oven and bake i£ hour. This dish is eaten cold. 10.-JOHN DORY, boiled. Cook like Turbot or Brill. 11—MACKEREL, a la metitve d'Holel. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... Mackerel Salad oil ... Salt and pepper Parsley 2 or 3 ... a little ... Clean as in preceding receipt, and place them in a deep dish. | Put over them.40 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. MACKEREL, a la maitre d'Hotel.—[continued.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5- 6... 7- 8... o... y... io... ••• •<• Chopped parsley, chervil, and chives Leave them to soak \ hour. Take them out and dry them in a clean cloth. Warm the gridiron and broil the fish on a gentle fire, turning when necessary. Place them on a warm dish. Mix with butter, pepper, and salt to a ball. Place it inside the mackerel, and serve with lemon juice. 12.—MACKEREL, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4-• 5- 6... 7... 8... Mackerel Cold water ... Salt Fennel, or gooseberry sauce, or plain melted butter i table- spoonful Cut open, remove the roes, well wash them and the mackerel. Put the fish and roes into a fish kettle. Pour over till the fish swims. Add. Bring gradually to the boil, and sim- mer for about 20 minutes; they are done when the eyes start. Skim as the scum rises. Serve on a napkin. Serve separately. Note.—Mackerel may also be done before the fire, broiled or baked. 13.—MULLET. This fish is excellent in autumn and winter, and may be cooked according to the receipts given for mackerel and whiting.FISH. 14.-RED MULLET. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. I... Red Mullet ... "Rnf f prpn xj unci CU paper 3 • ... 4... ... 5- ... 6... Good melted |pint ... butter 7... Anchovysauce 1 tea- spoonful 8... Cayenne a pinch ... pepper 9... Port or claret 1 wine- glassful 10... Lemon juice small quantity 11 «. Method. Wash and dry the fish; do not open them, but remove the gills gently with the small intestine adhering to them. Wrap each fish up separately, and tie the paper firmly on. Roast the fish in a Dutch oven, bake them, or broil them over a clear fire. Remove the string before serving, but leave the paper on or remove it as preferred. Make a sauce as follows to serve with it. Add to this the liquor from the fish. Add. Add. Add. Add; mix well. Serve separately, 15.-PLAICE, filleted. Cook like Soles. 16.-SALMON, boiled. -(English way.) Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Salmon Warm water... Salt 1 gallon 4 oz. Scale, empty, and wash carefully, do not leave any blood inside. j Put into a fish kettle Put' in the salmon and let it boil gently till thoroughly done. Take it out on a fish plate and drain.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 42 SALMON, boiled.—(English way.)—(continued.) Order. Quantities. Ingredients. Method. 6... Place on a folded napkin. 7- Shrimp or lob- Serve separately. ster sauce 8... Dressed cu- do. cumber Note.—We always add i wine glass of vinegar to the water the fish is boiled in. 17.-SALMON, pickled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- A... T Note people p and we t Remains of boiled salmon Vinegar, and liquor the salmon was boiled in Pepper and salt —A teaspoonful oi ut the remainder of hink it an improvei 18. Equal quantities tarragon vin the melted bu nent. The F —SALM( Remove the bone and place in a deep dish. Mix and put into a saucepan and boil for 10 minutes. Season well. When this is cold, pour it over the fish. egar is a goo"d addition to this dish Some tter and a little anchovy sauce into the pickle, "ench add the inevitable onion. DN STEAKS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- Slices from the middle of a salmon Cayenne pep- per Oiled or but- tered letter paper Suet Cut them i| inches thick. Sprinkle over each. Wrap up each slice. Rub over a gridiron. Broil the steaks over a clear fire.43 FISH. 19 — SALMON, boiled.—(French way.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Salmon Scale, empty, and wash carefully. 2... White French wine i bottle 3- Water do. 4,.. Fresh butter i lb. 5- 6... Parsley Onion pricked with i clove i bunch i Put into a fish kettle and boil i hour. 7- 8... Sliced carrot Bay-leaf 1 or 2 2 or 3 g... Salt and pep- per 10... Put the fish on a cloth, hold the four corners and place it in the kettle, leaving the corners outside. ii... Let the fish simmer equally and gently 2 hours. 12... Serve as in English receipt. 13 - Add some of the water the fish was boiled in to any sauce you serve with it. Note.—This way of cooking salmon makes it extremely delicate eating. 20.-SALMON, baked. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Tail piece of salmon 2... Oil 3- Vinegar 4.., Salt and pep- per 5... Butter 6... 7... Salt ... 8... 9... Caper sauce... 4 spoonso ful 1 spoon- { ful 3 oz. Make incisions in the fish. Mix, and let the fish soak in this one hour, turning it frequently that it may be well seasoned. Melt and add to the fish. Bake in the oven and baste frequently. Sprinkle over when nearly done. Serve the fish with the sauce round it. Serve separately.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 44 J the fire. 21.-SALMON SCALLOPS. Order. Ingredients. | Quantities. Method. I... Salmon It| id. ... Cut in small thin slices and remove all skin. 2... Cut the slices round, and flatten them with a knife dipped in cold water. 3 — Butter 3 oz. Melt in a stewpan. 4... Put in the scallops side by side. 5- Pepper and salt To taste Sprinkle over. 6... When they are brown turn them. 1... Stock \ pint ... Put in a saucepan and heat up. 8... Add the butter the fish was cooked in. g... Minced par- 1 tea Add. sley spoonful 10... Pepper and To taste Add, and serve with the fish. nutmeg SHAD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... onaci -- uniy good just out 01 tne water. 2... Draw through the ears. 3- Wash and wipe; leave the tail, but cut off the fins. 4... Make incisions on the cross down the back, but not very deep. 5— ... Put in a deep dish. 6... Salt and pep- Sprinkle over. per 7... Olive oil 1 pint ... Pour over. 8... Bunch of par- Add. sley, thyme, chives, and bay-leaf g... ... Let it soak 1 hour or more. Turn the fish. 10... Buttered paper Roll round the fish. 11... Put the fish to the fire, and let it roast 1 hour at a good fire. 12... Before it is done, take off the paper and baste it with the oil the fish was soaked in. 13... When it is a nice colour take it from45 FISH. Shrimp or Serve separately. SHAD {continued.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 14... 15... 16... Fresh parsley Serve on a white serviette. Sprinkle over the serviette. Put the fish on the dish so that the head may be on the left, and the back in front, of the person carving. Note.—Shad can also be boiled like Salmon. 23.-WAY TO CARVE SHAD. r.—Trace a deep line with the fish-knife from head to tail* 2. —Cut each portion by oblique lines. 3. —Leave the tail entire. 24. —SMELTS- Cook like herrings. 25. ™SKATE,/n^. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Skate This fish keeps well, is very nourish- ing, but not very delicate eating. 2... Beaten egg ... I yolk ... Brush over the fish. 3- Bread crumbs 4 oz. Cover the fish. 4... Boiling fat ... Fry a nice brown. 5... Anchovy or Serve separately. shrimp sauce 26- CRIMPED SKATE, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Skate Salt and water lobster sauce ...j Clean, skin, and cut into slices. ...j Roll each slice over your finger, and fasten it round with twine. ...| Put into a stewpan. Put in the fish. Boil from 15 to 20 minutes. Remove the string and serve on a folded napkin.46 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 27.—SKATE, au benrre noir. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Skate ... Dress and wash well in several waters. 2... Put it into a fish-kettle. 3--- Cold water ... Pour over till the fish swims. 4... Vinegar iwineglass 5... Carrots 2... 6... Small onions 3... 7... Bunch of >Add. thyme, par- sley and bay- leaf 8... Salt & pepper Season well. g... Boil gently J hour. 10... Skim. 11... Liver Wash and put in the liver. 12... When the fish is done take the kettle off the fire. 13... Put a cloth over and let it stand till you can bear your hand in the water. 14... Drain the skate. 15... ... Scrape off the black skin. 16... Trim the edges and fins with scissors. 17... ... ... Put the skate on a dish, the liver in the centre, and keep it hot. 18... Butter 4 lb. ... Melt in a frying-pan and stir till it is dark brown. 19... Picked parsley 1 handful Throw into the butter and let it fry till it no longer sputters. 20... Take it out with the strainer and garnish the skate with it. 21... Vinegar 1 or 2 tea- Add to the butter, stirring well. spoonsful 22... Salt & pepper Add. 23... Pour over the skate and serve hot. 28.-SOLES, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Soles ,.2 Put them into a fish kettle. 2... Salt & water Pour over them. 3- Let them boil slowly, then simmer.47 SOLES, boiled.—(continued.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... 5- ... They will take about 10 minutes. Serve on a napkin with the white side 6... Parsley and slices of le- up. Garnish the dish. 7- mon Anchovy or shrimp sauce Serve separately. 29- SOLESj/W^--— (French way.) Order, Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... Soles Milk Flour Butter Salt Fried parsley 2 £ pint ... i'ib. Dress, clean, and put into a deep dish. Pour over, and let them soak \ hour. Drain, and wipe the fish on a clean cloth. Sprinkle over a paste-board. Roll the soles in it. Melt in a frying-pan over a clear fire. Sprinkle over, stirring. As soon as the butter boils, plunge in the soles by the head. Fry a nice brown. Put round the soles on the dish. 30.~ SOLES, fried.—(English way.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- Soles Flour Beaten egg ... Bread crumbs Boiling fat ... 2 i yolk ... 3 oz. Remove the skin from the dark side, clean and wipe them dry. Dredge a little flour over. Brush over the soles. Dip the soles in. Fry brown in boiling fat. I Note.—The French way is more delicate.48 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 31.—SOLES, ctu gratin. r er. Ingredients. • • Quantities. Method. I... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a dish that can go into the oven. ... Fin u OZ. Sprinkle over the butter, stirring with a wooden spoon. 3 Parsley, chives Chop fine and put a layer over the e s c h a 1 o t, butter. mushrooms 4... Salt and Sprinkle over. UCUUCl 5... Soles 2 Dress the fish and put them on this 6... White French J pint ... Pour over. wine 7- Bread crumbs Put a thick layer over all. 8... Butter I OZ. Melt in a saucepan, and pour over the crumbs. g... Salt and Sprinkle over. 10... pepper Bake in a hot oven, and serve on the same dish. 32-SOLES,.^rf. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Soles 2 Divide them from the backbone, cut off the heads, fins, and tails. 2... Salt Sprinkle over the insides. 3- Roll them from the tail end upwards, and fasten with small skewers. 4... Beaten egg ... Bread crumbs I yolk ... Dip the soles in. 5- 3 oz. ... Do. 6... Hot lard or Fry them brown. clarified but- ter 7... Parsley and slices of le- mon Garnish the dish.49 FISH. 33—SPRATS, broiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Sprats Choose them very fresh and wipe them dry. 2... Fasten them in rows, by running a skewer through the eyes. 3- Flour Dredge over them. 4... Suet Rub on the gridiron. 5— Broil them for 3 or 4 minutes and serve very hot. Note.—Fresh sprats may be known by their bright eyes and silvery appearance. Sprats can also be fried in batter. 34 -TURBOT, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Turbot Empty, and wash the inside. 2... Salt Rub a little over the outside to remove the slime, and wash in several waters. 3- Make an incision in the skin of the back nearly to the bone, to pre- vent the skin of the white side cracking. 4... Do not cut off the fins. 5- Lemon cut in two I Rub over the fish. 6... White wine i wine- Put in a saucepan. and water, or vinegar and glass of wine or water vinegar to each quart of water 7... Onion pricked with a clove 1 1 8... Bunch of herbs J>Add. j 9... Salt and pepper 10... Boil this liquor £ hour. 11... Strain, and let it get cold.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. Serve separately. Melted butter TURBOT, boiled—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 12... Put the fish into a turbot kettle, with the vinegar or wine and water &c. 13... Put the kettle on a quick fire, and let it boil uncovered. 14... When it boils cover it with buttered paper, and let it simmer only 1 or 2 h6urs. 15... When the fish bends under the finger it is done. 16... Serve on a folded napkin. 17... Lobster, Serve separately. shrimp or anchovy sauce 35-—TURBOT, a la Hollandaise. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Turbot Prepare as in preceding receipt. 2... Lemon I Rub over the fish on both sides. 3- Put it in a turbot kettle. 4... 5- Saltwater ... Milk 1 quart do. | Pour over till the fish swims. 6... Put the kettle on a quick fire till it boils, then let it simmer only till done. 7... Fried parsley Put a bed on the dish and place the turbot upon it. 8... 9... Boiled pota- toes and lemon juice 1 lb. ... Slice and place round the dish.FISH. 5i 36— TURBOT, du gratin. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cold turbot ... Any pieces Remove the skin and bones. left 2... Butter 2 oz. Melt in a stewpan. Eschalots 2 or 3 ... Add. 4... Parsley, chives Add. 5"« Flour a spoon- ) ful V Mix smoothly together. f 6... Cream £ cupful 7... Salt, pepper, Add to the cream, and then put it in nutmeg the stewpan. 8... Boil the sauce until it thickens, stir- ring all the time. 9... Strain it. 10... Put the pieces of fish in a pie dish, and pour the sauce over. 11... Bread crumbs 1 oz. Sprinkle over. 12... Butter 1 oz. Clarify and pour over. 13... Bake in the oven, or Dutch oven, and serve in the dish it is cooked in. 37—WHITEBAIT, fried. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Whitebait ... Choose very fresh. 2... Beaten egg ... Dip the fish in. 3--- Bread crumbs Roll the fish in. 4... Boiling fat ... Fry the fish brown. 5- Fried parsley Serve round the dish. 38—WHITEBAIT, Greenwich style. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Whitebait ... Throw from the basket on to a cloth without touching the fish with the hands. 2.r. Flour 3 or 4 Throw over the fish and shake them handsful well in it. £ 2MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 5^ WHITEBAIT, Greenwich style—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 3- 4.., 5... 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... Lard Lemon Brown bread and butter Cut in halves Put them in a wicker sieve to get rid of the superfluous flour. Put in a frying pan, enough to fill it nearly when boiling. When the fat boils, throw in the fish a few at a time. Take them out before they begin to brown, and throw in some more. Drain them on blotting paper before the fire. Serve them on a hot dish, piled high in the centre. | Serve to eat with the fish. 39-WHITING,/^. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 4... 5- 6... 1... Whiting Beaten egg ... Bread crumbs Hot lard Fried parsley Shrimp or anchovy sauce 1 yolk ... Clean, take off the skin, turn them round, and fasten the tail into the mouth. Brush over them. Roll the fish in. Fry the fish. Serve them on a napkin. Garnish the fish. Serve separately. 40—WHITING, au gvatin. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 1 ... 2... Whiting Flour Clean and take off the skin. Sprinkle over a paste-board and roll the fish in it.FISH. 53 WHITING, an gratin—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 11... 12... 13... Chives, pars- ley, chervil, eschalot, and mushrooms Butter Butter Salt & pepper Bread crumbs White wine ... Stock •«» •«« A little of each 2 oz. 1 oz. 1 wine glassful 1 wine glassful Chop fine, and mix. Melt in a baking dish over a slow fire. Sprinkle in a layer' of the chopped herbs, and take it off the fire. Put the whiting on the butter, head to tail. Melt in a saucepan, and pour over the fish. Sprinkle over. Sprinkle on a thick layer. > Pour over the whole. Put the dish in the oven and bake it well. Serve in the dish it is cooked in. 41.-CARP, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... Carp Claret Boiling water Sliced onions and carrots Bunch of pars- ley, sage, chives, bay- leaf, thyme Cloves Salt and pep- per 2 \ pint ... 3 of each 3 - Take out the gills, clean and thoroughly wash. Leave the roes. Cut off the tail and fins. Put them in a fish pot. Boil separately and pour over the fish. Add till the fish swims. > Put into the pot. Let all simmer 1 hour or more, according to the size of the carp.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. CARP, boiled—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 12... Skim off the scum as it rises. 13... Take the pot off the fire. 14... Serve on a serviette. 15... Melted butter Serve separately. or parsley and butter 42.—CARP, cl la mariniere. Order. Ingredients. Quantities Method. Carp Butter Flour Small onions Mushrooms ... Salt and peper Claret Bunch of parsley, cher- vil, and chives Warm water 2 oz. I oz. pint Toast The blood that was set aside If liked Dress and cut into equal sized pieces. Let the blood flow into a cup, as you will want it for the sauce. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. Sprinkle into the butter, stirring all the time. J- Brown in the butter Sprinkle over. Take out the onions and mushrooms as they brown. Pour gradually into the stewpan, stirring all the time. Put into the sauce. Add according to quantity of sauce required. Boil on a clear fire. When it boils put in the pieces of carp. Put in the onions and mushrooms over the fish. Let all boil 1 hour on a bright fire, so as to set fire to the steam from the wine. Put round a deep dish. Take out the fish, mushrooms, and onions, and put them in the dish. Take out the herbs. Mix gradually with the sauce, pour over the fish, and serve.55 FISH. 43.—EELS, stewed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Eels 2 small or , Cut them into pieces. i large 2... ... Dry and flour them. 3- Butter 2 oz. Melt in a frying pan. 4- Brown the eels in the butter. 5— ... ... Put them into a stewpan. 6... Bunch of Add. sweet herbs 7- Onion I Cut into four and add. 8... Pepper, salt, Add. and spice, if liked g... Stock or water Nearly cover the fish. IO... Let it stew gently until it is cooked enough. ii... Flour Thicken the sauce with it. 12... Serve with the sauce round it. I3... Tomato [or May be used to flavour the stew. any other sauce 44.—EELS, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Small eels ... Boil them in enough water to cover them. 2... Bunch of pars- Add. ley When tender they are done. 4- Serve them up in a deep dish. 5- Parsley and Pour over them. butter 45.—EELS, baked. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Eels 2 Dress and wash. 2... Cut off the heads, and divide the eels into small pieces,MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 56 EELS, baked—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 3 .. D"' Wipe very dry. A... Seasoning of cayenne, salt, chopped parsley, and powdered herbs Dip the fish in. D'" Put them into a deep dish. 6... Veal stock ... Cover them. 7"' 8... Cover the dish. Bake in the oven till the eels are tender. g... Skim off the fat. io... Take out the fish and keep it warm. ii... Port wine ... 2 wine 1 glasses 12... Lemon juice 1 lemon > Stir into the sauce. 13- Worcester 1 tea sauce spoonful 14... Let it just boil. 15... Pour over the fish and serve. 46.—EELS, fried. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Eels Flour Beaten egg Bread crumbs Hot fat Fried parsley 1 large or 2 small Very little 1 yolk Prepare, wash, and wipe them thoroughly dry. Dredge over them. Cut them into pieces about 4 inches long. Brush over them. Dip them in. Fry the fish in it. Serve round them.FISH. 57 47.—EELS, en Matelote. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. MethoJ. I... ii>ei 1 large ... Dress and and cut into pieces. 2... Butter ... 2 oz. IVIelt in a stewpan over a slow fire and stir till it is brown. 3"- Flour t r 1" spoontui *~\nvintrlCi\7f*v qHII cfirrincr fill 0|JJ- lllxs.lt> UVCl ) OLlil OLllllllg, till wen 4... Small onions y or 0 ArlH n.OQ. W ater or stock £ pint ... Pour over, still stirring. 6... Salt and pepper Flour OCttoUH WCll. 7... 8... Put the pieces of" eel into this sauce. Add, if the sauce is too thin. 9... Bunch of ... AAA /lull. thyme, par- sley, chives, and bay-leal 10... Let all simmer 20 to 30 minutes. 11... Claret \ pint ... Add just before it is done. Put sippets to soak in the stewpan. 12... Toast 13... Place them in a deep dish. 14... Put the fish on the top, and the onions round. 15... Take out the herbs. 16... Pour the sauce over the fish and serve. 48.—COLLARED EEL. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Eel i large one Bone and skin it, and open it up the middle. 2... Pepper & salt To taste 3- Mace 2 blades Pound in a mortar. 4... Cloves 2 Pound with the mace. 5-«- Allspice A little ... Pound. 6... 7... Sage Sweet herbs... 6 leaves... Small / Mince very fine, and add to the bunch j other seasoning ingredients. 8... Sprinkle the seasoning all over the fish. 9... Tape Roll it up and bind tightly with broad tape. 10... Water with salt and vinegar Boil the eel till tender.53 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. COLLARED EEL (continued). 0 d ! Ingredients. Quantities. Method. II... 12... Vinegar When cold remove the tape. Add a little to the water the eel was boiled in, and keep the fish in this. 49.- GUDGEON, fried. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 3 — 4... 5- 6... 7... 8.,. Gudgeon Flour Butter or lard Salt and peppei Fried parsley Clean and dry. Sprinkle in a deep dish. Roll the fish in it. Boil in a frying-pan. Throw in the fish one at a time. Sprinkle over. As soon as the fish are brown and crisp, take them out of the pan. Garnish the dish, and serve hot. 50.—PERCH. Good fresh-water fish. Cook according to the receipts given for Whiting. 51—PIKE, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Fine pike Dress, and take out the roe, which is purgative. 2... Fat bacon I lb. ... Lard the Pike in three rows on each rolled in side of the back. pepper, salt and grated nutmeg 3- Flour Flour it lightly. 4... Put it down before a moderate fire. 5- White wine ... 1 pint ... 6... Olive oil 3 spoonsful ( Mix in the dripping-pan, and baste 7... Vinegar 1 tea- j the fish with it. 8... sponful Serve on a bed of parsley. 9... Melted butter ipint ... Add to the contents of the dripping- pan and serve this sauce separately.59 FISH. 52—TENCH. Cook like Herrings. 53-TROUT, boiled. Cook like Salmon. 54.—TROUT, stewed. Order. Ingredients Quantities Method. I... Trout 2 Empty, wash, and wipe them dry. 2... Butter 3 oz. ... Melt in a stewpan. 3- Flour 1 table- Stir in. spoonful 4- Mace, cayenne Add to season. and nutmeg 5- Put in the fish and brown them lightly on both sides. 6... Veal stock ... 1 pint ... Add to the sauce. 7... Parsley A bunch Add. 8... Bay leaf 1 Add. g... Lemon peel ... \ lemon Add. 10... Salt A pinch... Add. ii... Stew the fish very gently for J or f hour. 12... Put the fish on a hot dish. 13- Skim the sauce and strain it. i4... Lemon juice If liked ... Add. 15... Claret 1 wine- Add to the sauce and pour over the glassful fish. 55-SCALLOPED FISH, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Any remains i lb. .. ; Take all the fish from the bones, anc of cold fish i put it in a stewpan. 2.. Egg 1 i Beat up.Go MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. SCALLOPED FISH (continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities Method. Milk ... A teacup ful Flour ...I i dessert | spoonful Anchovy sauce i tea- | spoonful Pepper and salt Bread crumbs Butter Lemon juice... A few drops Yolks of eggs 2 3 oz. i oz. Beat up with the egg. Sprinkle in and mix smooth. Add. Add. Pour this over the fish, heat through on the fire and put in a deep dish or scallop shells. Put a thick layer over the top. Clarify and pour over. Brown before the fire. Add. Beat up and add to the sauce, stirring well. Arrange the scallops on a dish, and pour the sauce over them. 56.-FISH CAKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. • I... Any cold fish Pick carefully from the bones, and break with forks in small flakes. 2... Bones, head, Put in a stewpan. fins, &c. 3- Water 1 pint ... Pour over. 4... Onion 1... Add. 5- Bunch of herbs Add. 6... Pepper and salt Add. 7... Simmer gently for 2 hours* 8... 9... Bread crumbs Cold potatoes } Equal [quantities Mix with the fish. 10... Pepper and salt Add. ir... Minced parsley 1 tea- Add, spoonful 9FtsH. FISH CAKES (continued). Order. Ingredients. 12... White of egg I3... Yolk of egg ... 14... Bread crumbs 15... Boiling fat ... 16 Sauce J7 Slices of lemon and parsley Quantities. I 2 ounces If liked ... Make the mixture into one or more cakes, moistening with the egg. Dip the cakes in. Roll the cakes in. Fry them a nice brown, and serve with or without the sauce. Strain, pour over the cakes, and stew gently \ hour. Garnish the dish, and serve very hot. 57.-FISH PIE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. 13 14... Cold fish Oysters Pepper and salt Nutmeg Mace Butter Stock Puff paste White stock Milk or cream Flour ij lbs. 1 doz. if liked i tea- spoonful 1 blade ... 2 oz. |pint ... 1 table- spoonful \ pint ... 1 tea spoonful Free the fish from skin and bone and lay it in a pie-dish. Add. Add. Add. Add. Clarify and add. Add fish or veal stock. Cover the pie and bake 1 hour. For the sauce. Add. Dredge in to thicken the sauce. Boil up. Make a hole in the top of the pie and pour the sauce in. Cover the hole with a paste leaf and serve hot. Note. covered .— Fish pies can be made of any cooked or uncooked fish, and are sometimes with a layer of mashed potatoes in place of the puff paste.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 62 58—KEDGEREE. Order. In°T£dients. Quantities. Method. I... Rice 4 oz. Boil till tender, dry, and let it cool. Clear from skin and bone, divide in 2... Any cold fish Equal quantity flakes and put it in a saucepan. 3- Add the rice. 4... Butter ij oz. ... Cut up and add. 5- Salt and cayenne To taste Add. 6... Stir over the fire until quite hot. 7... 8... Eggs 2 Beat lightly and add. Stir in, and serve when the eggs are set, but do not let it boil. 59.-TO DRESS LOBSTERS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Lobster Separate the body and tail. 2... Remove the large claws, and crack them at each joint. 3-- Split the tail down the middle with a sharp knife. 4... Place the body upright on a napkin in the centre of the dish. 5- Arrange the tail and claws on each side. 6... Parsley To garnish the dish. 60. -TO DRESS CRABS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Crab A middle-sized crab is the best to choose. 2... It is stale if the eyes look dull. 3" Empty the large shell.FISH. TO DRESS CRABS (continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... 5-- 6... 7... 8... /"VI Uil Vinegar Salt, pepper, and cayenne 61- Very little do. To taste -lobst: | Mix with the flesh. Put back the meat in the large shell. Place it in the dish with the claws round it. ER CUTLETS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3— 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... g... 10... 11... 13... 14... Lobster Butter Salt, pepper, and cayenne Mace, nutmeg Coral Yolk of egg ... Bread crumbs R r\ 111 n or Inrrl XJUlllIlg lcllU ... Bechamel 62 i large ... 1 ounce ... To taste To taste Small / quantity 1 2 ounces If liked ... —LOBS Take all the meat out of the shell. Pound it in a mortar. Mix and pound with the lobster. Add to season. Add. Beat to a paste. Add. Divide the paste into neatly shaped cutlets. Brush over the cutlets. Roll the cutlets in. Stick a short piece of small claw in the point of each cutlet. Fry the cutlets a nice brown. Drain, and arrange on the dish. Pour a little into the dish, but not over the cutlets. PER SALAD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4.., Lobster Lettuces Endive Small salad ... I If liked ... Take out the meat and cut in small pieces. Wash, dry thoroughly in a cloth and tear in shreds with the ringers. Add. Add.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 64 LOBSTER SALAD (continued). Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Dressing Cucumber Beetroot Hard boiled; eggs I::: Mix well and add a portion of the fish. Dress with oil and vinegar or with made salad dressing. Arrange in a salad bowl. Garnish with slices of cucumber, beetroot, and egg, pieces of lobster, and little heaps of the coral, arrang- ing the colours to contrast nicely. 63.—OYSTERS, scalloped. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter I oz. Rub over a shallow tart dish or tin scallop-shells. 2... Grated bread 1 teacup- Strew a layer in the dish. crumbs ful 3- Butter 1 oz. Put some thin slices on the top of the crumbs. 4... Oysters Add to fill the dish. 5'- Bread crumbs Put a layer over the oysters. 6... Butter Put some thin slices over the crumbs. 7... Pepper Season the whole well. 8... Oyster liquid Add a little. 9... Bake in a quick oven. 64—OYSTERS, stewed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Oysters 3 doz. ... Open, cut off the beards, and wash them in their own liquid. 2... Strain the liquor into a small stew- pan. 3- Thin melted ipint ... Add to thicken it. butter 4... Pepper corns 20 Tie up in muslin, and add. 5- Blade of mace 1 Add if liked. 6... Put the oysters to simmer in this sauce 3 or 4 minutes, but do not let them boil. 7... Serve with sippets of bread.65 BEEF. SECTION III.—BEEF. 1.-PREPARATION FOR KEEPING BEEP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Beef Salt and pepper 3- Bunch parsley, of thyme, bayleaf and 4... Onions slices in 5- Olive oil 6... 7... 3 or 4 Put in a pan. Sprinkle over. • Put round and over the meat. Pour over till all is covered. Put the pan in a cool place. This will keep the meat several days, and it will be just as good to roast or otherwise cook. 2.-SIRLOIN OF BEEF, roasted. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Sirloin of beef Clarified dripping Salt Flour Hang the joint evenly at about 18 inches from a good fire. Put a little into the dripping-pan, and baste the joint well as soon as it is put down to roast. Baste it again every \ hour till about 20 minutes before it is done. Stir the fire and keep it clear. Sprinkle a little over the meat. Dredge over it. Turn it again till it is brown. Take it from the fire, put it on a hot dish and pour some good gravy over it; or mix the gravy left at the bottom of the dripping pan with a little hot water, and pour over it.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 66 SIRLOIN OF BEEF, roasted—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 9... Scraped horseradish 10... Yorkshire pudding II... Horseradish sauce Garnish the meat with little heaps of it. Serve with it on a separate dish. vServe with it. 3— ROLLED RIBS OP BEEP, roasted. Order. Ingredients. j Quantities. Method. Ribs of beef. Clarified dripping Horseradish sauce Order the butcher to take out the bones; roll it into a round ; fasten it with skewers and a broad piece of tape. Place it 18 inches from a large fire till it is partly cooked. Then move it gradually forward to- wards the fire. Put in the pan ; baste it the moment the dripping melts, and every £ hour. Twenty minutes before you remove it from the fire, dredge it with flour, and baste with a little butter. Remove the skewers and tape, and fasten it with a silver skewer instead. Serve, with good gravy over it. Serve with the meat. 4—ROLLED RIBS OP BEEP, braised. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I . 2... Rolled beef ... Fat bacon ... I ib. ... Choose about 2 ribs of beef, not too fat; have the bones taken out and the meat rolled into a good shape, T axd the beef.67 BEEF. ROLLED RIBBS OF BEEF, braised—{continued). Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Salt and pepper Fat bacon .. Stock with the fat off Carrots Parsley, thyme and chives Bay leaf Onions stuck with cloves Brandy Jib. ... 1 pint ... 2 In a bunch 1 2, if liked 2 tea- spoonsful Sprinkle over both sides. Tie a string round the beef to keep it in shape. Cut into thin slices and put at the bottom of a stewpan (enamelled if possible). Put the beef on top. Cover with more slices of bacon. VAdd. Add or not, at will. Put the stewpan on a quick fire, and let it boil uncovered a few minutes. Put the stewpan in a hot oven, and let it simmer gently, 3 hours at least. Take the beef out and take the string off. Put the beef on a hot dish, pour a little of the sauce over it, and keep it warm near the fire. Strain the rest of the sauce through a sieve ; put it on the fire again 2 or 3 minutes, then serve with the meat. 5.-TO BOIL BEEF. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Joint of beef..MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 68 TO BOIL BEEF—(continued). Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Keep the pot boiling, but let it boil very slowly. Just before the pot boils, the scum rises. Take care to skim it off carefully, or the scum will fall back and stick to the meat. When you have well skimmed the pot, put in a little cold water, which will cause the scum to rise again. The more carefully you skim, the cleaner and nicer will the boiled meat look. 6—AITCHBONE OF BEEF, boiled. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Aitchbone of beef Salt Moist sugar... lb i ounce. Cold water ... i\ gals, to 10 lbs. of beef This is a good joint for a large family. ) Pound together in a mortar, then ) rub into the beef. Turn the joint and rub in the pickle every day, for 4 or 5 days. Wash it well before you boil it. Put it into a large boiling pot, so as to let the meat be well covered and surrounded. Set the pot on one side of the fire to boil gently. If it boils fast at first, the meat will be hard and tough. Boil it 20 minutes to the pound. Save the liquor in which this joint i§ boiled for pea-soup.69 BEEP. 7-SILVERSIDE OF BEEF, boiled. Order. Ingredients* Quantities. Method. I... Silverside of beef Put it in pickle (see above receipt) for g or 10 days. 2... ... ••• Take it out and wash it; skewer it in a round form and bind it with a piece of tape. 3... Cold water ... 3 f^als. to 10 lbs. of meat ... Put it into a large stewpan of water, and when it boils remove the scum very carefully, or it will sink and spoil the look of the meat. 4... Draw the saucepan to one side of the fire, and let it simmer slowly 20 minutes to each pound from the time it boils. 5... When ready to serve, draw out the skewers and put in a silver one. 6... Liquor it was boiled in. A little ... Pour over the meat and garnish with carrots and parsnips. 8—BROILED STEAK. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rumpsteak ii lb. ... Take care to have it cut from \ to f inch thick; divide it in halves. 2... Place a gridiron over a clear fire, and rub the bars with suet to prevent the meat adhering to them. 3- Place the two steaks on it and broil them, turning them frequently with the steak tongs, or if with a fork, carefully pricking it through the fat to prevent the gravy run* ning out. 4... Butter 1 oz. Place on a hot dish. 5- Catchup 1 table- | Add. 6... Salt and pepper spoonful 7... Rub the steaks with butter, lay them on the dish, and serve as quickly as possible. i Note.—Rumpsteak is best for broiling and frying; beefsteak for stewing.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 7o 9—STEWED STEAK Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Steak 2 lbs. Fry in butter a good brown. 2... Water 1 pint ... Put into a stewpan with the steak. 3- Onion 1 or more at will Slice and add. 4... Catchup 1 table- spoonful Add. 5- Caper liquor... A little | Add. 6... Pepper and salt 7... 8... Cover the pan close, and let it stew slowly. Thicken the gravy with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and serve on a hot dish. Note.—Vegetables, such as carrots and turnips cut in small pieces, and stewed with the steak, are a very good addition to this dish. 10.—STEAK, French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, 2... 3- Steak Vinegar Olive oil Method. if lb. .. ) A few j drops Beat with the side of the chopper. Sprinkle each slice with a few drops of olive oil and a few drops of vine- gar, lay them on one another and let them steep all night. Broil the steak on a gridiron over a clear fire, turn once and serve. 11—STEAK, French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3--« 4... 5- Rumpsteak Pepperandsalt Fresh butter... 2 lbs. lib. Have it cut I inch thick; beat with the chopper and cut in slices.- Sprinkle over both sides of each slice. Melt in a stewpan. Put the steak in the butter. Put a gridiron on the fire to warm it beforehand.&EEF. STEAK, French receipt—(continued). Order. Method. 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 11... Fresh butter... Pepper and salt Chopped pars- ley and chives Lemon juice... 3 oz. 1 lemon... Put a warm dish on the stove. V Stir together on the hot dish. Broil the slices of steak on the grid- 12... iron. When broiled, put on the dish and serve. 12— BEEF, a la mode. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 3- 4- 5- 6.. 7- 8.. 9.. 10.. 11.. 12.. 13- 14.. 15- 16.. 17., 18., 19., 20. Piece of the round Fat bacon ... Salt and pepper Chopped pars ley White wine . Butter Pepper and salt Onions stuck with cloves Parsley Thyme Bay Marjoram Garlic Calf's foot Stock 2 lbs. lib. ... 1 tea- spoonful ^ pint to 2 lbs. of meat Beat it with a beating knife. Cut into long strips. Sprinkle over the bacon. Lard the beef with strips of bacon. Put it into a pan. Pour over. Let it steep 1 hour, then turn and let it steep another hour. Take a stewpan. Put at the bottom to melt. Put in the prepared betf. Sprinkle over. 1 bunch... j 1 sprig .... 2 leaves. 1 sprig . If liked . Boned . 1 pint . VAdd. Pour over the whole.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 72 BEEF, a la mode—(continued). Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Boil i hour, first quickly, then genth . Take the stewpan off the fire, and put it in a hot oven, to stew there 5 or 6 hours. Take off the fat, strain the sauce. Place the meat on a dish with the vegetables round it, pour the sauce over, and serve. 13.—BEEF, en Daube. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Beef 2 lbs. Choose a good part, cut in a thin slice, and beat and trim it. 2... Bacon Jib. ... Lard the beef. 3- Salt, pepper... Sprinkle all over. 4... Lard or butter \\b. Put in a large stewpan and place the beef on it. 5- Calf s feet ... 2 * - 6... Carrots 3 or 4 ... 7- Onions 2 stuck with 8... Parsley cloves | Tied in >Add. g... Chives > a bunch IO... Thyme ii .. Bay leaves ... J 2 12... Salt, pepper... I3... Stock | pint ... Pour over. I4... White wine ... \ pint ... Add. I5... Simmer for 4 hours, turning the meat from time to time. 16... When done put the meat on a dish and keep it hot. 17... Skim and strain the sauce, then boil it up, colour with caramel if neces- sary, pour over the meat and serve.73 BEEP. 10... Add. To taste Pepper 14—FILLET OP BEEF, a la Jardiniere. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. £. .. 2... 3;- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... g... 10... 11... 12... 13... 14 .. 15... 16... Beef Bacon Shin of beef... Veal Pepper and salt Butter Butter and flour Madeira ... Cayenne pepper Lemon juice Vegetables ... 2 lbs. Jib. ... 1 6 ozs. of j each 2 oz. 1 wine glassful A pinch ... J lemon... Take the whole of the fillet, or under- cut of a sirloin of beef. Lard it all over with small pieces. Put the meat on a baking dish. Put in the dish to make a good gravy. Sprinkle over. Break in small pieces and add. Bake a rich brown. Baste frequently. Put the meat on a hot dish. Work into a ball and add to the sauce. When it boils add the wine. Add. Add and boil up. Put round the meat any vegetables in season, cauliflower, French beans, asparagus, carrots or turnips. Strain the sauce over and serve. 15-FILLET OF BEEF, with maccaroni. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5 — 6... 7 8... 9... Fillet Maccaroni ... Stock Butter Parmesan ] Gruyere > cheese ) 2 lbs. Jib. ... ij pint ... i lb. ... 6 ozs. of each Bake as in preceding receipt or roast. Blanch in hot salt and water. Throw it into cold water, and cut it in pieces 1 inch in length. Boil the maccaroni in the stock. When done put it in a cullender to drain. Melt in a stewpan. When it begins to turn colour throw in the maccaroni. Grate and add to the maccaroni.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. FILLET OF BEEF, with maccaroni—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. II... Cream 2 or 3 tea Add and shake the stewpan well. spoonsful 12... Put the meat on a hot dish. I3... Serve with the maccaroni round it. 14... Strain the gravy from the beef over it. 13.—FILLET OF BEEF, with Tomatoes. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Fillet n ib. ... Cut the fillet in neat oval slices. 2... Pepper andsalt Sprinkle over. 3- Butter 4 oz. Melt in a stewpan. 4... Put in the slices of beef, and when they have been 4 minutes on one side, turn them and leave them 4 minutes on the other. 5... See that the butter does not burn. 6... When done put the meat on a hot plate. 7... Flour t dessert spoonful Add to the butter and stir well. 8... Stock or grav) 1 dessert spoonful Add. 9... Puree of tomatoes Add. 10... Pepper and sail Add. 11... Warm the meat in the sauce and serve. Note.—Fillets are cooked in the same way with mushrooms or olives. 17.-BEEF GRENADINS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Fillet of beef ij ib. ... Cut in long slices \ inch thick. 2... Bacon j ib. ... Lard them on one side. 3- Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a stewpan.BEEF. 75 BEEF GRENADINS—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Flour i tea spoonful Add before the butter browns. 5- Pepper and salt Add. 6... Put in the beef and brown on both sides. 7... Gravy ipint ... Add. 8... Madeira 1 wine Add. glassful When the grenadins are done glaze them over. 9... 10... Arrange them round a dish with the strained sauce poured over them. 18.—BEEF, a rstouffe. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Beef 2 lbs. Any part will do, cut in a thick slice. 2... Let it hang some days and beat it well. 3--- 4... Bacon 1 lb. ... Season the bacon and lard the beef with it. Put it in a saucepan. 5--- Water Add till covered. 6... Peppercorns and salt Add. 7- Cover the saucepan and let it simmer 5 or 6 hours, turning the meat occasionally. 8... Half-an-hour before serving remove the cover, and let the beef boil quickly to reduce the sauce, which should be thick and dark brown. 9... Put the beef on a hot dish. 10... Strain the sauce over it. 11... Glazed onions Serve with the beef.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 76 Pepper and salt Add. 19.-BEEF OLIVES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Rump steak ... ijlb. . Parsley- A few sprigs Thyme A few sprigs Onions 2 small . Eschalots 3 or 4 . Mushrooms ... 6 or 8 . Salt, pepper... To taste Eggs 2 yolks only Stock _ . White wine . Salt, pepper. Onion 15...] Bacon 1 pint .. \ pint .. To taste 1 stuck with cloves 3 or 4 slices Cut in thin slices, beat and trim them. Chop fine and mix together. Add. Beat and mix with the chopped herbs. Spread the forcemeat on the slices of meat, roll them up and fasten with string or small skewers. Put the olives in a stewpan. Add. Add. Add. Add. Lay on the olives. Stew gently for 2 hours. Put the olives on a dish. Reduce the gravy, thicken it with butter rolled in flour, strain it and pour it over the meat. Serve. 20—BEEF CARBONADES, a la flam an de. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Beef I lb. ... Cut in thin neat slices. 2... Butter Jib. ... Melt in a stewpan. 3-: Brown the meat in the butter. 4- Onions 2 or 3 ... Chop and add. 5— Thyme A little ... Chop and add. 6... Bay-leaf 1 if liked Chop and add. 7...77 BEEF. BEEF CARBONADES, a la flamande—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 8... g... 10... ii... Stock Butter and flour Vinegar A few spoonsful ... I oz. \ wine glassful Add when the meat is browned. Cover the stewpan and simmer gently for 1 hour. Knead together and add to the sauce. Add just before serving. 21- -BEEF : KIDNEY, saute. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 11... 12... 13... 14... 15... 16... 17... Beef kidney... Boiling water Butter Flour Parsley Chives White wine, Brandy or champagne Water Stock Salt, pepper, grated nut- meg I 4 OZ. 1 spoonful \ pint ... do. do. Take out the hard piece in the middle, and cut in two, lengthways. Slice the two halves into pieces the size of a crown-piece. Place them in a pan. Pour over to whiten them. Let them steep 5 minutes, then drain. Melt in a frying-pan over a quick fire. Put in the kidney and fry 5 minutes, shaking the pan. Sprinkle over, still shaking the pan. | Chop fine and add. j" Pour over gradually and mix well. J ) V Add for seasoning. Let the sauce simmer for 5 minutes, but not boil, or it would harden the kidney. Place the slices of kidney on a warm dish. Pour the sauce over, and serve. Note.—Chopped eschalots and parsley may be added to this receipt if liked.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 73 \ pint ... Stock ) serve with the strained gravy. 22.—ANOTHER RECEIPT. Order In redients ngre len s. Q Ucintities. Method. I... Beef kidney... I ... Take out the hard piece in the middle, and cut into small slices. 2... Onions i or 2 ... Chop fine. 3... Butter 2 oz. Melt in a frying pan over a quick fire. A... T Put in the kidney. g»... J Flour ... 1 pinch ... Sprinkle over the meat as you toss it in the pan. 6... Water or 1 cupful Pour over gradually. stock 7... Salt and pepper To taste Sprinkle over. 8... Parsley ... A few Chop and add. sprigs Grate and add. 9... Nutmeg 10... Let the sauce simmer 5 minutes, but not boil or the meat will harden. Place the kidney on a warm dish. 12... Pour the sauce over. 13... Vinegar or A few Add before serving. 1 emon juice drops 23.- OX TONGUE, en daube. 1 er. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Ox tongue I This receipt is for fresh tongue. Cut off the root, which is good for making stock. 2... Place the tongue in a pan. D"' Boiling water I quart ... Pour over, and let it steep 1 hour near the fire. A... ... Take it out and skin it by scraping with a knife. 5 — Bacon 1 lb. ... Lard it well. 6... Butter ... \ lb. ... Melt in a large stewpan. 7... Flour 1 tea Sprinkle over, stirring with a wooden spoonful spoon. 8... Salt and pepper Add, still stirring. g... Water or stock \ pint ... Add. 10... Put in the tongue. 11... Bunch of herbs Add. 12... White wine ... 1 pint ... ) Add. Let all boil 4 or 5 hours, then 13...BEEF. 79 24.—OX TAIL en hochepot. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Ox tails Boiling water Slices of fat bacon Carrots Onions Cloves Bunch of herbs Salt and pepper White wine. Water Butter Flour Stock the tails were stewed in White wine .. Carrots Turnips quart 5 or 6 2 or 3 i pint do. 2 OZ. I pinch . \ pint 3 or 4 3 or 4 Cut at the three joints. Put the pieces into a dish. Pour over. Let them steep ^ hour. Take them out and put them in cold water. Strain over a cullender. Place at the bottom of a stewpan, till covered. Cut into slices, and add. Stick each onion with a clove, and add. | Add. Place the prepared tails on the vegetables. | Pour over till all is covered. Let it stew gently 5 or 6 hours. Take off the fat. Melt in another stewpan. Sprinkle over, stirring with a wooden spoon. Pour in gradually stirring with a wooden spoon. j- Cut into dice, and add. Let all stew till the vegetables are done. Put a cullender over another sauce- pan. Strain the sauce. Put it back on the fire for 2 minutes. Drain the pieces of tail, place them on the dish with the vegetables; add the sauce, and serve.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 8o Add, to make a good gravy. A little ... Stock 25.—OX PALATE, a la menagere. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Ox palates ... 4 Soak in boiling water until the hard skin can be removed. 2... ... Wash several times in hot water, then put them into cold water. 3- Flour ... A few Mix smooth in water. spoonsful 4... Carrots 3 5--- Onions ... 3 stuck with cloves Put in a saucepan with the mixed 6... Parsley root... 1 ' flour and water and boil up. 7- Herbs A bunch 8... Garlic If liked ... 9... Pepperandsalt Put in the ox palates, and let them simmer gently for six hours. 11... Keep them covered with water. 12... When quite white take out the palates and cut them in square pieces. 13... Serve them with sauce piquante. 26.- OX BRAINS, en Matelote. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 1... Ox brains Clean and wash in warm water. 2... Put to soak 1 hour in cold water. 3- Put it in a saucepan. 4... Water Add enough to float the brain. 5- Vinegar \ wine- Add. glasbful 6... Salt and pepper Add. 7... Cloves 2 or 3 ... Add. 8... Sweet herbs... A bunch Add. 9... Green celery 1 stick ... Add and let it boil f hour. 10... Butter 2 oz. Melt in a stewpan. 11... Small onions A handful Brown in the butter, then take out. 12... Bacon k lb. ... Cut in dice, brown in the butter, and take out. 13... Flour 1 tea- Add to the butter and brown, spoonful 14...BEEF. OX BRAINS, en Matelote—{continued). Ingredients. j Quantities. | Salt and pepper Claret I J bottle. Add. Cut the brain in 4 pieces, and put it in the butter. Add the fried onions and bacon. Add. Boil for 10 minutes, and serve very hot. 27.—COLLARED BEEF. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Ribs of beef.. Saltpetre Sal-prunella Bay salt Sugar White salt .. Cloves Mace Allspice Grated nutmeg Pepper Chopped parsley Sweet herbs ... Parsley 2 oz. 2 oz. 2 oz. k lb. 2 lbs. \ oz. do. 12 corns 1 1 spoon- ful 2 large spoonsful do. This is for a large joint. Have the joint boned. j Pound all together in a mortar, and } rub it into the beef well on both I sides. Turn it every day and rub it well for 8 days. Take it out of the pickle, wash it and wipe it dry. Sprinkle all over the beef, and roll it up very tight. Put a coarse cloth round it, and tie it up tight with tape. Boil it in a large copper of water. If it be a large collar it will take 6 hours, but a small one will be done in 5 hours. Take it out and put it in a press till cold, or, if you have no press, put it between two boards with heavy weights upon it. Garnish the dish.82 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOOK. spoonful spoon. 28.-FRIED BEEP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Lard i lb. ... Melt in a frying-pan on a quick fire. 2... Sausages | lb. Put into the pan. 3- Cold beef ... ijlb. ... Cut into slices and put in the pan. 4— Stock 2 table Vinegar spoonsful | Pour over. 2 or 3 drops 6... Leave it on the fire £ hour. 7... Dress the beef and sausages on a warm dish in a ring. 8... Pour the sauce in the middle, and serve. 29.-BROXLED BEEF. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Remains of Cut into rather thick slices. cold beef 2... Rub some suet on the gridiron. 3 •• Salt and pepper Sprinkle on the slices. 4... Broil them on the gridiron. Turn them. 6... Parsley Garnish the dish, and serve. 30.—BEEF, en miroton. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Remains of Ijlb. ... Cut into equal slices. cold beef 2... Butter 2 0Z. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. 3--« Onions 2 or 3 ... Cut into dice and add. 4... Let them fry brown. 5- Flour 1 tea- Sprinkle over, stirring with a woodenBEEP. S3 BEEF, en mivoton—{continued). Ingredients. Quantities. Stock Salt and pepper Vinegar or white wine Chopped parsley A few table- spoonsful The same as stock ^ Add gradually, stirring with the spoon. Let it simmer uncovered. Warm the beef in the sauce and serve. 31.-BEEF BOULETTES. Ingredients. j Quantities, Method. I... Remains of cold beef 1 lb. 2... Sausage meat lib. \ lb. 3 — Fat bacon ... 4... Remains of cold fowl I lb. 5- 6... Chopped parsley Chopped chives 1 Very r Htti 7— 8... Bread crumbs 4 oz. 9... Milk or stock \ pint ro... Beaten eggs... 2 11... 12... Flour 13... 14... 15... Butter jib. 16... 17... ► Mince and mix together. Put the whole in a basin. ) Mix together, and then add to the j mince. Mix all well together with a wooden spoon. Sprinkle over a paste board. Take a spoonful of mince, roll it in the flour, and make a ball of it. Use up the whole of the mince in the same way. Melt in a frying-pan or stewpan over a slow fire. When the butter is melted, put in the balls of meat to fry. Serve them without sruce, or with the following preparation. G 2MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. BEEF BOULETTES—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 18... iy... 20... 21... Chopped onions Vinegar ... Tomato sauce A handful of small ones 2 or 3 drops Throw into the pan when you take the balls out. Add. Pour over the balls of meat and serve immediately. Very good served with the boulettes, or separately in a sauce bowl. 32.- -BEEF TURNOVERS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5--- 6... 7... Cold roast beef Stock or gravy Pepper and salt Stale bread ... Butter Sauce piquante ii lb. ... 1 pint ... To taste 2 oz. Cut in slices. Put the beef in to warm, but do not let it boil or it will be hard. Add. Cut in slices the same size as the meat. Fry the bread in butter. Put alternate slices of fried bread and meat round the dish. Pour into the centre and serve. 33.-BOILED BEEF, ciu gvatin Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3--- 4... 5- 6... 7.,. Bacon Grated crusts Mushrooms ... Onions Parsley Pepper and salt 1 lb. ... 3 oz. A few ... 2 A few sprigs Cut in thin slices, and brown on the nre. Lay them in an earthen baking dish. Grate fine, and sprinkle over. 1 Chop and mix together, and put a | layer on the grated crumbs.BEEF. 85 BOILED BEEF, an gratin—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 0 0... 9... IO... II... 12... Slices of meat Grated crumbs Stock ipint ... Trim them neatly and lay them in the dish. Cover them with another layer of the chopped herbs, &c. Put on a thick layer to cover all. Add. Bake in the oven, brown the top before the fire and serve in the same dish. 34.-BEEF SALAD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Remains of Cut into slices, and put in a salad boiled beef bowl. 2... Chervil 3- Chives - Chop fine and sprinkle over. 4- Tarragon 5- Pepper 6... Oil • Add to taste. 7... Vinegar 35.-MINCED BEEF. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Remains of cold beef i lb. ... Mince fine. 2... Sausage meat ilb. ... do. and mix with the betf. 3- Butter 2 oz. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. 4... Throw in the minced beef. 5- Flour 1 pinch ... Sprinkle over, mixing with a wooden spoon. 6... Salt and pepper do. do. 7... 8... Chives Parsley Chop fine and add. 9... White wine ... \ wine 10... Stock with the fat taken off glass do. v Pour over. 11... Let it stew 20 minu'es. J2... Garnish the difth with toast, and serve.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 86 SECTION IV.—VEAL. 1- CALF'S HEAD, baked. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Calf's head ... I I Pick and wash very clean. 2... Butter I oz. Rub the inside of an earthen dish large enough to hold the head. 3- ... Lay some long iron skewers across the top of the dish, and lay the head on them. 4... ... Skewer up the meat in the middle, that it may not touch the dish. Nutmeg Grate over every part of the meat. 6... Sweet herbs... 1 table Chop small and sprinkle on the meat. spoonful 7... Crumb of bread 2 oz. do. 8... Lemon peel... 1 lemon... do. 9... Butter 2 oz. Stick into the eyes, and on different parts of the head. 10... Flour Dredge all over. 11... Piece of beef jib. Cut small and put into the dish. 12... Sweet herbs... 1 bunch... Add, 13... Onion 1 do. 14... Spice If liked ... do. 15... Water 1 pint ... do. 16... The brains ... do. 17... ... When the head is done a nice brown, lay it on a dish, and put it before the fire to keep warm. 18... Stir the contents of the dish, and boil in a saucepan. 19... Strain off. and put into the sauce- pan again. " Butter 1 oz. j Roll it in the flour, and put it in the Flour 1 tea spoonful | saucepan. 20... Catchup 1 table spoonful | Add. Red wine ... 2 table spoonsful 21.. Boil them together, pour them all into the dish, and send to table. 22.. The tongue must be baked in the head to make a handsome dish.VEAL. 87 2.—CALF'S HEAD, boiled. Order, j Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 11... 12... 13... 14... 15... 16... 17... 18... ig... 20... Calf's head ... The brain j Cold water... { Salt Hot water ... Water Parsley Thyme Bay leaf Pepper and salt Melted butter or cream Lemon juice Cayenne 3.C. i 1 pinch ... ipint ... A little ... A little ... 1 2 table- spoonsful \ lemon 1 pinch ... kLF'S E Soak in cold water \\ hours, then for 10 minutes in hot water, before it is dressed. Put it into a saucepan with enough cold water for the head to swim in. When the scum rises, skim very carefully. After it boils let it simmer i j hours. Separate the two lobes of the brain with a knife. | Soak the brain in it 1 hour. Pour away the cold water and cover the brain with hot water. Clean and skin it. Boil very gently, skimming carefully. 1 > Put all into a stewpan. Chop the brains and add. Stir well, warm thoroughly, and serve with the head. Ham or slices of bacon should be served with calf's head. iEAD, a la Poulette. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2.. 3- Remains of calf's head already cooked Butter Flour 2 OZ. i or 2 tea- spoonsfu Cut in nice slices. Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. Mix in the butter with a wooden spoon.MYRA'S COOKERY BOO.:. 88 CALF'S HEAD, a la Ponlette—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. | Method. 4... Savoury herbs If liked ... Chop fine and add. 5- Stock free 1 pint ... Add at once as the butter must not from grease brown. 6... Salt and pepper Sprinkle over. 7... Let this sauce simmer uncovered a quarter of an hour. 8... Put the pieces of head in just long enough to warm, but do not let them boil. 9... Warm the dish. 10... Place the meat upon it and keep it hot. 11... Beaten yolks 2 12... of eggs Lemon juice 2 or 3 | Stir up together. or vinegar drops 13... Take the sauce off the fire, and when it has ceased boiling, add the egg. 14... Stir gently with a wooden spoon. 15... Pour the sauce over and serve hot. 4.—CALF'S BRAINS, a la Maitre d'Hotel. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Brains 4 Dress and skin. 2... ... Put them in a dish. 3 — Boiling water Pour over the brains till covered. 4... Let them steep 2 or 3 hours. 5 — Throw away the water. 6... Cold water ... Pour over the brains. 7... Let them steep 10 minutes. 8... Drain through a sieve. g... Butter 2 oz. Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. 10... Flour 1 dessert Sprinkle over the butter, stirring spoonful with a wooden spoon. 11... Stock, or j 1 pint ... i Pour over the butter, still stirring, water, or and see that the butter does not white wine... brown. 12... When the sauce is well mixed, put in the brains with a skimmer.VEAL. 89 CALF'S BRAINS, a la Maitre d'Hotel—(continued). Ingredients. Quantities Method. Salt and pepper A good deal Nutmeg Mushrooms .. Small onions 4 or 5 Yolks of eggs Water Sweet herbs.. Vinegar or lemon juice A few drops 1 pinch . A few drops To season well. Add if liked. Let the whole simmer £ hour. Put the brains on a dish and draw the saucepan towards the edge of the stove. Beat up in a basin. Add. Chop and add. Add; beat all up together and add to the sauce in the saucepan. Pour the sauce over the brains and serve hot. 5.—CALF'S BRAINS, au beurre noir. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Brains 4 Skin and put in a dish. 2... Salt Sprinkle over. 3- Boiling water Pour over the brains till they are covered. 4... Let them steep 2 or 3 hours. 5- Take off the remaining skin and throw away the water. 6... Pour cold water over. 7... 8... Vinegar Salt \ wine- glass 1 pinch | Add. 9... Let them remain a few minutes. 10... Put them on to another dish with the skimmer. 11... Pour the vinegar and water into a Onions saucepan. 12... 2 Cut into slices, and add. 13- Cloves 6 Stick into the onions.90 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. CALF'S BRAINS, an benrre noiv—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 14... Parsley 15... Chervil ! 16... Chives Tie into a bunch and add. 17... Thyme f 18... Bay-leaf ... J 19... Put the brains on the top, and let them simmer h hour. 20... ... Take the brains out with the skimmer and place them on a dish. 21... Keep the dish hot over a saucepan of boiling water. 22... Butter 3 oz. ... Melt in a frying-pan over a quick fire till it becomes dark brown. 23... Salt Sprinkle over. 24... Parsley Fry in the butter. 25... Pour the contents of the frying-pan on to the brains and serve. 6-—CALF'S BRAINS, fried. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Brains 4 Skim and soak three hours in vinegar and water. 2... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. 3- Flour i dessert spoonful 4... Stock 1 tea Sprinkle over, stirring with a wooden cupful spoon. 5-- Salt and pepper 6... Chopped herbs 7... Put in the brains. 8... When nearly done, take the brains out and let them cool. 9... Cut them into slices. 10... Sprinkle salt over. 11... Lukewarm Pour over and let them steep \ hour. vinegar 3 2... Drain when ready to fry them. 13... Roll in flour, beaten egg, and bread crumbs. 14... Fry a delicate brown in boiling fat. I5... Parsley Fry and place round the dish. 16... Serve with tomato sauce if liked.VEAL. 9i 7.-VEAL CUTLETS. Order. Ingredients Quantities Method. I... Veal cutlet ... 2 lbs. Cut into small pieces J inch thick. 2... Sweet herbs ... 1 bunch... Chop fine. 3 Bread crumbs 3 oz. ... Mix with the herbs. 4... Yolks of eggs 2 Beat up and brush over the cutlets, . then cover them with the crumbs and herbs. 5- Fry them lightly in butter, and take out when done. 6... Fresh butter... I oz. 7... Lemon peel... J oz. Grate and mix with the butter. 8... Nutmeg do. 9... Flour 1 tea spoonful Add. 10... Water Pour into the frying-pan, and stir the flour, butter, and grated lemon peel into it. 11... Put the cutlets into this gravy to heat. 12... vServe with thin rolls of bacon round the dish. 8.—VEAL CUTLETS, « la bourgeoise. Order. Ingredients. j Quantities. Method. I... Cutlets 2 lbs. Cut into nice pieces | inch thick. 2... Bacon i lb. ... Lard them lengthways. 3--- Butter i lb- ... Melt in a stewpan over a slow lire. 4... Flour 1 table spoonful Sprinkle over, stirring with a wooden spoon. 5--- Stock or water i£ pint ... Pour over gradually, still stirring. 6... Place the cutlets in the stewpan. 7... Parsley 8... Thyme Tied in a 1 Add. 9... Chervil bunch 10... Tarragon 1 11... Carrots 2 Add. 12... Small onions 301-4 ... j Add. 13... Mushrooms ... 2 or 3 ...92 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. VEAL CUTLETS, a la bourgeoise—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 14... 15... 16... 17... Salt and pepper Cloves 2 or 3 ... j Add. When the cutlets are done, dress the vegetables in the middle of the dish, and the cutlets round. Take the grease off the sauce, and strain over the dish. 9.—VEAL CUTLETS, sautees. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 1 1 Veal cutlets ... 2 lbs. ... Cut into pieces ^ inch thick. 2... Salt and pepper Sprinkle over. 3- 4... Parsley Eschalots ... \ Chop fine ) do. 5- Butter 1 lb. ... Melt in a frying-pan over a quick fire. 6... Put in the cutlets, turn them fre- quently. 7... 8... Vinegar 2 or 3 drops Add to make the meat tender. Let them fry a nice brown. 9... Bread Cut into slices, and fry separately. ro... When the cutlets are done, put the fried bread into a dish, and the cutlets on the top. ri... Salt and pepper Sprinkle over. 12... Draw the dish to the side of the fire. 13... Flour A pinch... Sprinkle into the frying-pan the cut- lets were done in. 14... Onion, chives Add if liked. 15... Stock 1 spoonful Pour gently into the pan, still on the fire. 16... White wine or 1 wine- Add. water glass 17... Stir well with a wooden spoon, scraping up the glaze that forms in the pan. 18... Pour this sauce on the cutlets, and serve hot.VEAL. 93 10.-VEAL CUTLETS, Glazed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3 — 4... 5- 6... 7- 8... 9— 10... 12... I3... Veal cutlets ... Bacon Butter Stock Carrots Onions Knuckle of Veal Salt and pepper 11-VI 2 lbs. jib. ... 2 OZ. 1 large cupful 2 cut in dice 2 sliced ... 1 to taste... !AL CUr Trim them and take off the skin. Lard the cutlets with bacon. Melt in a stewpan. Place the cutlets on the butter. >Add. Stew gently till the cutlets are done, then put them on a hot dish. Keep the cutlets hot. Reduce the gravy in the stewpan. Pour the gravy through a hair sieve on to the cutlets and serve. rLETS, with Sorrel. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3"- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... g... 10... 11... 12... 13- Veal cutlets... Bacon Butter Salt Salt Parsley Carrots Onions Eschalots Bay-leaf 6 k 4 oz. To taste 3 or 4 sprigs 2 sliced... 3 or 4 large ones 3 or 4 1 if liked Trim them, remove the skin, and flatten them well. Lard the cutlets with bacon. Melt in a stewpan on a slow fire. Brown the cutlets in the butter. Sprinkle over them. When browned on one side turn them and brown the other side. Sprinkle again. >Add. Cover the stewpan with a large sheet of buttered paper.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. VEAL CUTLETS, with Sorrel—(continued). Ingredients. Puree of Sorre Quantities. Method. Simmer for two hours on a slow fire. Moisten with the gravy from the cutlets. Prepare separately and pile in the dish. Lay the cutlets on the sorrel round the dish, and keep them hot. Reduce the gravy and pour it through a hair sieve over the cutlets. Note.--Spinach can be used in place of Sorrel, if preferred. 12—FILLET OF VEAL, roasted. Ingredients. Quantities. Fillet of Veal Forcemeat .. Buttered paper Flour Butter Melted butter ; Lemon juice i Veal gravy ...! Slicesof lemon' lib. h lemon... Method. Take out the bone, and with a sharp knife make a deep incision between the fillet and the flap. Fill the incision with it. Bind the veal in a round form, and fasten it securely with skewers and twine; run a skewer as nearly through the middle as you can. Cover the veal with it, and put it at some distance from the fire at first, advancing it as it becomes cooked. Baste well. Dredge over when you take off the paper just before the veal is done. Baste well with it. Remove the skewers, and replace them with a silver one. Pour over. Put round the dish. Serve with boiled pickled pork. ham, bacon, orVeal, 95 13. LOIN OF VEAL, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Loin of veal. 2... Buttered paper Flour Butter Melted butter 7 lbs. Choose the kidney end, fasten the flap over the kidney with a small skewer; run a skewer through the end lengthways. Cover the veal with it, and place it before a good fire to roast. Dredge just before serving. Baste do. Pour over when in the dish, and serve. The kidney and fat may be sent to table separately on toast, if pre- ferred. 14.—SHOULDER OF VEAL, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- Shoulder of veal Remove the knuckle. Roast what remains like the fillet, stuffing it or not as preferred. If not stuffed, serve with oyster or mushroom sauce and garnish with sliced lemon. 15.—SHOULDER OF VEAL, stewed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- Shoulder of veal Salt and pepper Nutmeg Butter To taste Bone it. J- Sprinkle over the meat. 4- 5- 4 oz. Roll the veal in an oblong shape, and tie it up with string. Melt in a large stewpan cn a slow fire.96 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. SHOULDER OF VEAL, stewed—{continued). Ingredients. Quantities. 6...I Flour Stock Sait Thyme Bay-leaf Onions Mushrooms Green peas Carrots I i table- spoonful 1 pint ... A pinch... 2 or 3 sprigs 3 or 4 5 or 6 i pint 3 or 4 Method. Sprinkle into the butter, stirring with a wooden spoon. Pour in gradually, still stirring. Put in the rolled veal. Add. Add to flavour, if liked. Close the stewpan with a cover with raised edges, and place hot coals on the top. Let the meat stew for 4 or 5 hours. Boil any of these apart, or stew them with the veal. When the meat is done dress it on the dish and take away the string; put the vegetables round the meat and serve very hot. 16—BREAST OF VEAL, stewed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Breast of Take off the tendons, and skewer the Veal sweetbread to the joint. 2... Buttered paper Cover the meat and place it to roast for 1^ hours, more or less accord- ing to weight. 3-- Melted butter 4... Gravy | Serve with the meat. 5 — Sliced lemon 6... It can be roasted without the sweet- bread, which with the tendons can be served up as an entree.VEAL. 97 17—BREAST OF VEAL, with white sauce. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. \ I... Breast of Veal 3 lbs. ... Cut the meat in pieces and put them in an earthen jar. . 2... Boiling water Pour over sufficient to cover the meat. a- Blanch it and let it drain. 4... Butter i lb. Melt in a saucepan without browning. 5... Flour 1 table spoonful 1 Sprinkle over, stirring with a wooden l opuuivic uvti, aiming wim rt wuuucii | spoon. 6... Salt To taste 7... 8... Water 1 cupful... Pour in gradually, stirring all the time. Put the pieces of veal in the sauce. 9... Parsley 3 sprigs... 10... 11... Eschalots Thyme 3 or 4 ... A few sprigs 1 Tie together in a bunch and put in j the saucepan. 12... Bay-leaves ... 2 J 13... Mushrooms ... 5 or 6 ... Add if liked. 14... Stew gently for 1 hour at least. 15... Yolks of eggs 1 or 2 ... Break into a basin. 16... Vinegar or A few Pour into the beaten eggs drop by lemon juice drops drop, stirring with a wooden spoon the whole time. 17... ... When the meat is done, put it in a dish and keep it hot. 18... X cti^C 111G SaUCC vJll LUG 111C, cillU. skim it. 19... Mix with it gradually the beaten eggs, stirring constantly. 20... Put the sauce back on the fire, to make it quite hot, but without letting it boil. 21... Pour the sauce over the meat and serve. 18.—KNUCKLE OP VEAL, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Knuckle of veal Water Method. Put into a stewpan. Pour over till covered. Let it simmer slowly.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 98 KNUCKLE OF VEAL, boiled—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Salt i dessert Throw in when it reaches the boiling spoonful point. 5- Keep it well skimmed, and boil it 20 minutes to each pound. 6... Parsley and Serve with it. butter 7— Salted pig's do. cheek 8... Rice f lb. ... May also be boiled with it. 9... Serve with green peas, or vegetable marrow stewed. 19.—FRICAND TP A TT r\T71 TTTTI A T Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cut a handsome slice, trim it neatly round. 2... Fat bacon ... i ib. ... Lard the veal closely. 3- Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a stewpan. 4... Put the meat in. 5- Salt and pepper 6... Bunch of herbs 7... Remains of - bacon } Add. 8... Carrots in 2 slices 9... Onions in 3 slices 10... Stock or Pour over till all is covered. water 11... Let it simmer 5 or 6 hours. 12... Put the meat on a dish, and keep it hot. 13... Strain the gravy, skim off the fat, and put back on the fire. 14... Flour 1 pinch ... Add, stirring with a wooden spoon. 15... Boil it till thickened. 16... Put the meat in again a minute. 17... Serve with a puree of spinach, sorrel, or green peas,99 VEAL. 20.-CALP,S HEART, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Calf's heart Veal stuffing Put, to disgorge, in lukewarm water for an hour. Wipe it dry. Stuff the heart with it and season well. Cover it with buttered paper, and set it down to roast at a good fire. Serve it with good gravy, or any piquante sauce. Serve as hot as possible. 21.-CALFS LIVER, roasted. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Fat bacon Parsley Salt and pepper Nutmeg Calf's liver . Salt and pepper Olive oil Bunch of herb Buttered pape: Liver gravy with the grease off Eschalots Sweet herbs. Stock ilb. 2 table spoonsful 2 or 3 ... Chopped fine 2 table spoonsful Cut it to lard the liver. ) Chop fine and roll the bacon in the > mixture of parsley, salt, pepper, ) and nutmeg. Skin, and lard with the bacon, which should not show. Put it into a pan. Sprinkle over. Pour over. Add to flavour. Let it steep for 5 or 6 hours. Take it up and wipe it carefully. Put round it. Let it roast ^ hour before a gentle fire. Take off the paper to let it brown 1 minute. When the gravy ceases to drop it is done. Mix in a basin to make a sauce piquante. n %100 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. CALF'S LIVER, roasted—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 20... Capers Add if liked. 21... Lemon juice... \ lemon... do. 22... Dress the liver on a dish. 23... Pour the sauce over, or serve it separately. 22.—CALF'S LIVER, a la bourgeoise. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Calf's liver ... 2... Parsley chopped fine 3 Salt and pepper 4... Nutmeg 5- Butter 6... 7... Flour 8... 9... 10... Salt and pepper 11... Stock or watei 12... White or red wine 13... Onions 14... Carrots 15... Salt and pepper 16... Bunch of herbs 17... 18... 19... 20... jib. .:. 1 table spoonful i pint do. 2 or 3 Lard well all over with bacon rolled in the following mixture: To season the bacon. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. Let it brown. Mix it in the butter with a wooden spoon. Put the liver in the butter. Sprinkle over. Add when half cooked. Slice and put round the liver. Slice and add. Add. Add. Cover the stewpan, and put it in the oven, or put hot coals on the cover. Let it bake 2 or 3 hours, but see that the liver does not stick to the pan. When the liver is done, put it in a dish and keep it warm. Put a cullender on a basin,VEAL. 101 CALF'S LIVER, a la bonrgeoise—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 21... ... Pour the gravy through, and take off the grease. 22... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in another stewpan. 23... Flour i dessert Sprinkle over and stir in. spoonful 24... Gravy Add gradually. 25... Let it simmer 1 minute uncovered. 26... Pour it over the liver. 27... Place the carrots and onions round. 28... Capers or pickles Add if liked. 23.—CALF'S LIVER AND BACON. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Calf's liver ... 2ilbs. ... Soak in cold water for £ hour, dry on a cloth, and cut into thin nar- row slices. 2... Bacon I lb. ... Cut as many thin slices as you have slices of liver. 3- Fry the bacon lightly, take it out, and keep it hot. 4... Fry the liver in the same pan. 5... Pepper and salt Sprinkle over. 6... Flour Dredge over. 7... When it is a nice brown, arrange it round the dish, with a roll of bacon between each slice of liver. 8... Pour off the fat from the pan. 9... Butter 2 OZ. 10... Flour I dessert | Rub together, and put in the gravy. spoonful 11... Lemon juice 1 lemon Squeeze in. 12... Hot water ... 1teacup- ful Add. 13- Serve with forcemeat balls, or slices of lemon.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 13... 24.-CALFS LIVER, Saute. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Calf's liver ... 2 lbs. Cut in thin slices and flatten them by beating. 2... 3--- Salt and pepper Flour To taste A pinch... | Sprinkle on both sides. 4 ■• Butter £ lb. ... Melt in a frying pan on a brisk fire. 5— Put in the slices of liver. 6... Parsley A few ] • 7... 8... g... Eschalots Chives sprigs 3 or 4 ... A few ... 1 r*t,^^ £ „ ^ _ _ j . j i ;c lit,-, J > L/nop nne ana add 11 liked. ) When the liver is done on one side turn it on the other. 10... White or red wine 1 wine glassful Add. ii... Boil for 10 minutes. 12... Stock Add to thin the gravy as required. I3... Dress the pieces of liver round the dish. 14... Sippets of If liked ... Fry and place between the slices of bread liver. 15... Pour the gravy into the middle of the dish and serve. 25.—CALF'S CROW, with Vinegar Sauce. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Calf's crow ... Put in a pan. 2... Boiling water i quart ... Pour over to cover the crow. 3— Salt A pinch... Add. 4... Let it soak for 3 or 4 hours. "S- Put it into another pan. 6... Cold water ... 1 quart ... Pour over as before. 7... 8... Let it stand and cool for \ hour. Drain through a strainer. 9... Cut it in pieces and put in a saucepan. 10... Salt and pepper To taste Add. 11... Onions 2 or 3 ... do. 12... Carrots do. ... do. Bunch of herbs do.VEAL. CALF'S CROW, with Vinegar Sauce—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 14... I5... 16... 17... 18... 19... 20... 21... 22... Water with \ white wine or vinegar Parsley Oil Vinegar Salt, pepper... Eschalots "1 Parsley Tarragon 26.-CAI Enough to cover the meat 6 dessert spoonsful 2 dessert spoonsful To taste 3 or 4 A few sprigs A few sprigs jF'S sw I Pour over and let it stew gently for at least 3 hours. Take out the pieces with a skimmer, let them drain, and pile them in the dish. Garnish the dish, and serve very hot. Chop the herbs fine, and mix all ► together to make a sauce served separately in a sauce tureen. / DETBREAD, stewed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... Sweetbreads Veal broth ... Pepper and salt Marjoram ... Flour Beaten yolks of eggs 3 1 pint 1 tea spoonful 2 Soak in warm water for 1 hour, and put them into a stewpan. - Add. Let them stew rather more than £ an hour. Place them on a hot dish. Sprinkle in to thicken the gravy. Add, and let the sauce get quite hot without boiling. Pour the sauce over the sweetbread, and serve.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. io4 27—CALF'S FEET, a lei poulette. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Calf's feet ... 3 Place in a pan. 2... Boiling water Pour over to clean them. 3-- Let them steep ^ hour. 4... Put them into another pan. Cold water ... Pour over. 6... Let them steep 2 minutes. 7... 8... ::: ::: ... ... Take them out, dry and clean them. Cut them lengthways, and take out the principal bone. 9... Stock or water 3 pints ... Boil them in it 2 or 3 hours. 10... Butter 2 oz. Melt in a saucepan. 11... Flour 1 pinch ... Stir in. 12... Stock or water Pour in gradually, stirring with the the feet were other hand with a wooden spoon. boiled in 13... Salt 14... Parsley A little ... 15... Mushrooms ... 5 or 6 ... 16... Small onions 3 or 4 ... ► Add to the sauce if liked. 17... Salt and pepper 18... Bay leaf 1 ig... \r r\f arret 1 U1A Ui Cgg ... Lemon juice 20... A few > Beat up in a basin. or vinegar drops 21... 22... Parsley Chives Chop fine and add. 23... Take the saucepan off the fire. 24... Pour the contents of the basin into the saucepan when the sauce has done boiling, stirring all the time. 25... Take the feet out of the pot. 26... Put them on the dish with the onions and mushrooms round them. 27... Pour the sauce over, and serve.VEAL. 28.-MINCED VEAL. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Remains of cold fillet or loin ... ... Mince fine. 2... The bones of ... ... Put into a stewpan. cold veal and other trimmings of the meat 3 — Flour Dredge over. 4... Water or stock ij pint ... Pour in. 5-» Sliced onion... 1 1 I 6... Minced lemon i tea peel spoonful ^Add. J 7... 8... Pepper and salt Bunch of herbs 9... Simmer for more than 1 hour. 10... Strain the gravy. 11... Butter rolled 1 oz. Thicken the gravy with it. in flour 12... Boil the gravy again and skim it well. 13... Add the meat and warm it gradually. 14... Lemon juice 1 lemon... Add the lemon juice. 15... Milk or cream 3 table Add. spoonsful 16... Do not let it quite boil, but when it is on the point of doing so, take it off the fire. 17... Toasted bread Cut into sippets and garnish the dish round the edge with them. 18... Pile the mince in the centre of the dish. 19... Serve with fried bacon and slices of lemon. 29,-BLANQUETTE OF VEAL. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- Cold roast veal Butter Flour 2 lbs. 2 OZ. i dessert spoonful Cut in nice thin slices, and take off any bits of skin. Melt in a stewpan. Sprinkle over, stirring with a wooden spoon, but do not let the butter brown.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. io6 BLANQUETTE OF VEAL—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... I- 6... 7... 8... g... 10... 11... 12... 13... 14... 15... 16... 17... 18... ig... 20... 21... 3( Saltandpepper White stock or cream Parsley Veal broth ... Mushrooms ... Small onions Artichokes ... Yolks of eggs Vinegar Chives Saltandpepper 3—VEAL C To taste ipint. ... 1 bunch... \ pint ... Cut in quarters 3 or 4 ... 2 or 3 ... 2 A few drops Chop fine To taste IROQUE Put in the slices of meat and stir well with the spoon. Add. Add by degrees, stirring all the time. Add. Simmer gently for 10 minutes. | Put in another saucepan and boil. 1 Add to the sauce if liked. Pour the sauce over the meat. Take out the parsley. Leave the stewpan on the fire a few minutes, and then put the meat on a hot dish. Break in a basin. Mix gradually with the eggs. Add if liked. Add and beat up with a whisk. Pour into the sauce, which must be hot without boiling. Stir the sauce thoroughly and pour over the meat. TTES, to use up cold roast veal. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. J Method. I... 2... 4... 6... Butter Flour Salt and pepper Nutmeg Mushrooms ... Parsley 2 OZ. i dessert spoonful 2 A little ... Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. Sprinkle over, stirring with a wooden spoon. Add, still stirring. Grate and add. I Chop and add : let them cook an ) instant.VEAL. VEAL CROQUETTES, to use up cold roast veal—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 7- 8... 9... 10... 11... 12... 13... 14... 15... 16... 17... 18... xy... 20... 21... 22... 23... 24... 25... Milk or cream Stock or gravy Cold roast veal Veal fat Yolks of eggs Bread crumbs "R or era Salt and pepper ... ... Salt .! Parsley ( Equal 1 quantities ijlb. 4 oz. 2 | Pour over, still stirring gently. Let the sauce thicken and boil. | Mince and add to the sauce. Take the saucepan off the fire. Let it cool and thicken. Beat up and stir into the saucepan. Put into a dish. Fill a dessert spoon with the mix- ture in the saucepan, and put it in the bread crumbs. Rub it in the crumbs, and roll it in a round or oblong shape. Repeat the operation till all is used. Beat up the yolks and whites. Add. Dip in each ball of meat, then rub it in the bread crumbs again. Fry the croquettes a fine brown. Add. Fry and put round the dish. Serve hot, with the sauce. 31.-VEAL CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3--- Veal Bacon Salt and Ijlb. ... i lb. ... To taste Take off all skin and fat, and cut in Cut in thin slices. [slices. 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... cayenne Mace Nutmeg Lemon peel... Stock 1 tea spoonful i-third 1 lemon A little ... Chop the lemon peel very fine and > mix with the rest to season the i meat. Lay the veal and bacon in a basin in layers, and sprinkle the seasoning Add to form a jelly. [over. Bake 1 \ hour and turn out when cold.io8 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. SECTION V.—MUTTON. 1-LEG OP MUTTON, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4.. 5- 6.. 7.. Leg of mutton Salt and water Currant jelly For roasting, this joint may be kept much longer than for boiling; it must be wiped very dry and dredged with flour and pepper. Cut off the knuckle, remove the thick skin, and trim off the piece of flank. Put into the dripping-pan, and baste the meat with it, afterwards using the gravy from the meat itself. Baste every 10 minutes. Serve with gravy. Serve separately. If you cut this joint in two for roast- ing, put a paste over the cut ends. 2.-LEG OF MUTTON, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3 •• 4... 6... 7... Leg of mutton Cold water ... Turnips Carrots Caper sauce... Cut off the shank bone, wash and wipe it very clean. Pour into a saucepan over the joint, which must swim in it. Set over a good fire, and skim as the scum rises. Boil 15 minutes to the pound. | Serve on the dish or separately. Serve in a sauce-boat.MUTTON. log 3.-LEG OF MUTTON, boned. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Leg of mutton Veal stuffing Ham or bacon Good brown gravy 7 lbs. 41b. 3 oz. Buy a small joint and carefully remove the bone. ) Fill up the hole from whence the ) bone has been taken. Cover the skin over and sew it up neatly to secure the stuffing. Tie it up and roast it for about 3 hours before a bright clear fire. Place round it on the dish when done. 4.-LEG OP MUTTON, braised. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Leg of mutton Bone it. 2... Strips of fat bacon sea- soned with pepper i"ib. Use to lard the meat, but the bacon should not be seen. 3- Tie up in a good shape. 4... Fat bacon ... jib. ... Cut into slices and put at the bottom of a large stewpan. 5- Put the mutton on the bacon. 6... Sliced carrots 3 or 4 ... 7... 8... Onions The bone chopped 3 >Add. 9... Bunch of parsley 10... Chervil 11... Stock with the 1 quart ... Pour over till all is covered. fat off, or water 12... Put the stewpan on to boil. 13... When it boils, put it into a hot oven to simmer till the meat is cooked quite tender. It will take 3 or 4 hours,no MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. LEG OF MUTTON, braised—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 14... 15... 16... Put the meat on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the sauce, and put it on to the fire again for 2 or 3 minutes. Pour it over the meat, and place the carrots and onions round the dish. 5.—SADDLE OF MUTTON, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... Saddle of mutton Salt and flour Warmed butter Red currant jelly 2 OZ. Take off the skin, cover the fat with buttered paper, and roast it as directed for leg of mutton. Dredge over just before it is done. Drop over it just before it is done. Serve with good gravy, or empty the contents of the dripping pan into a basin, remove the fat, add a little warm water, and use as gravy. Serve separately. 6-SHOULDER OF MUTTON, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- Shoulder of mutton Butter Onion sauce... 2 OZ. Flour the joint well, and put it down to a clear bright fire. Do not baste while roasting, but rub with a little butter. Serve separately.MUTTON. in 7-SHOULDER OF MUTTON, braised. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7— 8... 9... 10... 11... 11... 13... 14... Shoulder Chopped herbs Fat bacon ... Garlic Salt, pepper... Butter Carrots Bunch of parsley Chervil Onions Stock or water, with a little salt 8-LO Minced ... If liked ... 3 or 4 ... 2 or 3 ... \\ pint ... IN OF Bone, by chopping the bone. 1 Mix and sprinkle over the meat. ) Roll up the meat and tie it with tape. Put at the bottom of a large stewpan. Put in the joint. Brown both sides. 1 ! Slice the onions and carrots and put | all in the stewpan. ^Pour over till all is covered. Let it stew 4 hours and serve. MUTTON, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, j Method. I... 3- Loin of mutton Flour and salt 9-LC UN OF This joint is not economical on account of being so fat. Roast at a bright fire, and baste every 15 minutes. Dredge over just before removing from the fire. MUTTON, stuffed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... Loin of mutton Salt Pepper Veal stuffing Bone it and cut off some of the fat. | Sprinkle over for seasoning. Put a layer on the meat. Roll the loin with the stuffing inside and fasten it securely with skewers. Roast before a brisk fire, and before serving remove the skewers.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 112 10.—LOIN OF MUTTON, stewed like venison. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Loin 01 mutton ... okin and none it. 2... **" Put it in a stewpan. 3 — Water i pint Pour over. 4... Onion stuck 1 large A A A Add. with cloves one 5— Port wine £ pint ... A AA Add. 6... Vinegar 1 spoonful Add. 7... Let it come to the boil. 8... Bunch of herbs Thyme and parsley are best. g... Pepper A A A Add. 10... Salt Add. IX... Let it stew 3 hours, turning it often. 12... Bones and Boil down to make stock, and add to trimmings the mutton as required. 13... Strain the sauce and pour it over the mutton in the dish. 14... Red currant Serve with the mutton. jelly ll.-NECK OP MUTTON, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Neck of 4 lbs. ... Buy the best end of the neck, trim mutton off part of the fat, cut the bones short, and see that it is thoroughly jointed. 2... Roast like a loin. 12—NECK OP MUTTON, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Neck of 2 lbs. ... Choose the best end and trim off mutton part of the fat. 2... Wash it in cold water. 3— Put it in a saucepan. 4... Cold water ... Add till the meat is covered. 5... Let it boil up and skim it.113 MUTTON. NECK OF MUTTON, boiled—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 6 .. Salt i large spoonful Add to make the scum rise. 7... 8... Onions 2 stuck with Skim again, and then let it simmer gently. [ Add when the liquor is clear. cloves g... Carrots 3 or 4 ... 10... Sweet herbs... A bunch j iii.. Turnips 3 or 4 Add half-an-hour later. 12... Serve the meat and vegetables together. 13... Caper sauce... Serve separately. 13.-MUTTON CHOPS, broiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Chops 4 Dress, cut off the skin and most of the fat. 2... Beat on both sides. 3- Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over both sides. 4... Put on the gridiron over a quick fire. 5 — Turn them once. 6... Fresh butter... I oz. 7... Salt, pepper... ■ 8... Chopped parsley r Mix into a ball. 9... Chopped eschalot I 10... Lemon juice 2 or 3 or vinegar drops 11... Put the ball of seasoning in the middle of a hot dish, place the chops round. 12... Potatoes fried Serve with the chops, either on the same dish or separately. I in butterii4 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 14.—MUTTON CHOPS, with bread crumbs. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Chops 6 Cut off the fat and beat flat with a wooden knife. Ss.lt and pepper Sprinkle over both sides. 3 — Butter i'ib. Melt in a frying pan over a slow fire. 4... Bread crumbs 4 oz. Dip the chops into the butter, then into the crumbs. 5- Place each chop on the gridiron on a slow fire. 6... Let them broil 10 minutes, turning them once only. 7... Slices of Serve separately. lemon 15.-MUTTON CUTLETS, sautSes. Order. Ingredients. Quantities Method. Cutlets Salt and pepper Butter Stock... Eschalots chopped Fine herbs chopped Salt and pepper Pickled gher- kin in slices iib. ... spoonsful 2 or 3 Cut off the fat and beat with a wet wooden knife. Sprinkle over both sides. Melt in frying pan over a slow fire. Put the cutlets to brown on both sides. Warm a dish. When the cutlets are done, put them on the dish and keep them warm near the fire. Put in the butter that remains in the pan. Let this sauce boil 2 minutes. Pour it over the cutlets and serve.MUTTON. iT5 16.-MUTTON CUTLETS, a la jardiniere. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cutlets 6 ^— - Dress, and cut off the fat. 2... Butter \ lb. ... Melt in a stewpan. 3- Salt, pepper ... Sprinkle over. 4... Fry the cutlets in the butter. 5- Put the cutlets on a hot dish. 6... Put the dish to keep warm. 7... Kidney beans ipint ... Cut into slices and put in the stewpan 8... Green peas 2 pint ... Add. 9... Cauliflower ... 1 Divide into small pieces and add. 10... Carrots 2 Cut into small slices and add. 11... Turnips 2 do. 12... Potatoes 4 do. 13... Water or stock 1 pint ... Pour over. 14... Let all simmer till the vegetables are done. 15... Butter 2 oz. Add towards the end, pour the gravy and vegetables over the cutlets and serve. 17— MUTTON CUTLETS, with vegetables. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Mutton cutlets 6 Trim them neatly. 2... Slices of bacon Wrap a slice round each cutlet, and tie it on with string. 3- Good stock ... 1 pint ... Braise the cutlets in the stock. 4... When done, take them out and keep hot. 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... Carrots Turnips Salsify Celery Artichokes ... 2 or 3 ... 3 or 4 ... 3 or 4 ... 1 head ... 3 or 4 ... 1 Boil the vegetables in water, cut ! them in pieces, not too small, and [ put them into the sauce in the braising pan.. 10... Let them stew for a short time. 11... Arrange the cutlets on a dish, and serve with the vegetables round them. 1 2MYRA'S COOKEkY BOOK. n6 18—MUTTON CUTLETS, with rice. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Mutton cutlets 6 Salt Pepper Rice Stock Salt, pepper... Cayenne pepper Tomato sauce * lb. i pint A pinch A little Trim and broil on both sides. | Sprinkle over before broiling. Wash, and boil in water for minutes. Drain and dry the rice. Put it in a stewpan. Add to the rice. To season. Add if liked. minutes, stirring Stew for : frequently. Add and mix well in. Dress the rice in a heap in the centre of the dish, and put the cutlets round. 19—MUTTON CUTLETS, a la Maintenon. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, j 1 I... Cutlets 8 2... Mushrooms ... 2 spoons- ful 3- Parsley 1 spoonful 4... Eschalots 1 spoonful 5- Salt 6... Pepper 7... Garlic 1 clove ... 8... Mixed spice ... A pinch... 9... Butter 2 oz. 10... 11... 12... Method. Cut them thick, beat them, and then cut them through the centre. Chop, and put in a stewpan. Chop fine and add. Chop and add. Add. Add. Add. Add. Add to the ingredients in the stew- pan, and keep on a brisk fire 5 minutes, stirring all the time. Put a portion of the forcemeat into each cutlet. Close the cutlets, and broil them 4 minutes on each side. Put the remainder of the forcemeat into a sauce espagnole, and serve it under the cutlets.117 MUTTON. 20.—BREAST OF MUTTON, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Breast of Tie it up and boil it in water. mutton 2... ... When tender take it out and let it cool. 3- Untie it, trim, and take off the skin. 4... Salt and pepper To taste Sprinkle over on both sides. 5- Bread crumbs 4 oz. Stale bread is best. 6... Butter 2 oz. Melt on a slow fire. 7... Dip the mutton in the butter and bread crumbs, and broil on a brisk fire. 8... When one side is done turn the meat. g... Parsley A few Serve the mutton dry, garnished with sprigs parsley. 10... Sauce piquante or tomato sauce can be served separately. 21—BREAST OF MUTTON, stewed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Breast of Divide it in small pieces. mutton 2... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a stewpan. 3- Put the pieces of mutton in, brown them, and take them out again. 4... Flour I dessert Add to the butter and mix well. spoonful 5— Salt and pepper To taste Add. 6... Onions 2, stuck Add, with cloves 7... Sweet herbs... 1 bunch... Add. 8... Stock J pint ... Add. 9... Peas, French beans or | At will... | Add. other vege- tables 10... Put in the meat, and put the cover on the stewpan. 11... Let it simmer gently till tender. 12... Take out the herbs. 13.., Serve the meat with the vegetables.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. n8 22.-HARICOT MUTTON. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Breast or Have it cut up by the butcher into shoulder of 10 or 12 small pieces. mutton 2... Flour and 2 OZ. J7r\7 tV»pm nrrwx/Ti in V»nff<=»r 0 n A 0 X 1 y LllUlll U1UW1I 111 UULLCl ctllU. ct butter little flour. Let them fry about 15 minutes. 4... Warm water 2 dessert Add, stirring. spoonsful o3.lt, pepper... oprinkle over. O... Parsley, rp".*' « . 1 led in a Add. thyme, cher- bunch vil, bay leaf 7... Let all simmer ^ hour. 8... Turnips and 4 of each Peel and slice. potatoes 9... Butter i lb. ... Fry the turnips in another stewpan and let them brown. 10... Add the vegetables to the meat \ hour before the meat is done. 11... Put the meat and vegetables on a dish. 12... Skim the fat off the sauce, pour it over the meat, and serve. 23.-IRISH STEW. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Neck of 2} lbs. ... Divide into cutlets and trim off part mutton of the fat. 2... Potatoes 4ilbs. ... Pare and cut them in thick slices. Put some of the potatoes in a stew- pan. 4... Pepper and salt Sprinkle over the meat. 5- Put a layer of cutlets on the layer of potatoes. 6... Add another layer of potatoes and meat, and put a thick layer of potatoes on top. 7... Onions 2 or 3 if Cut in shreds and strew over, liked119 MUTTON. IRISH STEW—(continued). Order, Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 8... Cold water ... I pint ... Add. 9... Salt 1 oz. Add when the stew begins to boil. 10... Let it simmer gently 2^ hours. 11... Serve very hot. Note —Irish stew can also be bake i in the oven. The meat and potatoes are arranged in layers in a brown earthen jar, with a layer of whole potatoes at the top, and the jar is put in the oven. 24. -SHEEP'S KIDNEYS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. 1 Method. I... Sheep's kid- Put into a dish. neys 2... Cold water ... Pour over. Let them soak a few minutes. Skin them, cut them open, but do not quite separate them. 4... Fat bacon ... \ lb. ... Lard with very fine strips. 5- Skewer them flat. 6... Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. 7... Butter i"ib. Z Melt in a frying pan. 8... Dip each kidney in melted butter. 9... Bread crumbs 3 oz. Then into bread crumbs. 10... Place them on the gridiron. 11... Put the gridiron on a quick fire and turn the kidneys once or twice. 25.—SHEEP'S KIDNEYS, broiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Kidneys Split them but do not divide them, and take off the skin and fat. 2... Run skewers through them to keep them open and flat. 3- Broil over a clear fire on the cut side first.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 120 SHEEP'S KIDNEYS, broiled—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Cayenne Sprinkle over while broiling. pepper and salt 5"- When done turn them, and broil them on the other side. 6... Fried bread ... Serve the kidneys on slices of fried bread. Note.—A small quantity of clarified butter or oil brushed over the kidneys before broiling is an improvement. 26.—SHEEP'S KIDNEYS, sautes. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 1... Sheep's kid- neys Put in a pan. 2... Cold water ... Pour over, and let them soak 5 minutes. 3— Skin and cut each kidney in two, but do not separate them entirely. 4... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a frying pan over a quick fire. 5- Toss the kidneys in it. 6... Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. 7... 8... Turn several times till they are quite done. Take out the kidneys and keep them warm. 9... Slices of bread 1 to each Fry in the pan. kidney 10... Salt Sprinkle over. 11... Butter 1 oz. Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. 12... Flour 1 tea Sprinkle over and stir with a wooden Stock White wine ... spoonful spoon. 13... 14... \ pint ... do. I Add gradually, still stirrjng. 15... Put the kidneys on the fried bread, pour the sauce over and serve with or without lemon juice.121 MUTTON. 27.—SHEEP'S TROTTERS, a la poulette. Order Ingredients. Ouantities yuan 1 les. Method, I... Sheep's trot- ters 4 Put into a pan. 2... Boiling water ... Pour over and let them soak. 3... Wipe them and singe off the hairs. 4... Put them into a saucepan. Water Pour over till all is covered. 6... Onions | 7... Salt, pepper... 8... Parsley ) !>Add. 1 9... Chervil t In abunch 10... Chives ) J 11... Let it simmer 4 or 5 hours. 12... Strain through a cloth. 13... Cut up the feet, take out the bone. 14... Put the pieces to keep warm. li... D• • • Fresh butter... 2 oz. Melt in a saucepan. 16... Flour 1 dessert spoonful I7... Salt j>Add, stirring. 18... Chopped parsley 1 j ig... Stock or warm water ^ pint ... Add, still stirring. 20... Small onions 3 or 4 ... 21... Chopped mushrooms 3 | Add. 22... Put the trotters in. 23... Let all simmer ^ hour. 24... Take out the bunch of herbs. 25... Pour the contents of the saucepan on a dish. 26.., Beaten yolks of eggs, with a few drops of lemon juice 2 Add to the sauce, mixing gently with a wooden spoon.122 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 28.-SHEEPS' TONGUES, en papillotes. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Sheep's Put them to soak 1 hour in cold tongues water. 2... Boiling water Put the tongues in and leave them until you can peel off the hard skin. 3"- Trim the roots, and drain them. 4... Butter 4 oz. Melt in a stewpan. 5... Sweet herbs... 1 dessert Chop fine and add. spoonful 6... Mushrooms ... 2 spoons- Chop and add. ful 7... Bacon 3 oz. Mince and add. 8... Salt | g... Pepper V To taste Add. 10... Spice ) 11... When nicely browned put in the tongues. 12... When browned take them out and put aside to cool. 13... White paper Cut in pieces to wrap round the tongues. 14... Oil Dip the paper in oil. 15... Spread some of the seasoning on each tongue. 16... Wrap the tongues separately in 17... paper. Broil them lightly and moisten with oil. 18... Serve the tongues wrapped in paper. 29 — SHEEFS LIVER, a la menagere. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Sheep's liver Cut it in thin slices. 2... 3- Salt Pepper | Mix and sprinkle over to season. 4... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a stewpan. 5- Put in the slices of liver. 6... When done, take them out and keep hot.123 MUTTON. SHEEP'S LIVER, a la menagere—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 7... 8... g... 10 .. 11... 12... 13... 14... 15... 16... 17... Onions Flour Stock Yolk of egg ... Vinegar Capers Fried sippets 30-E 6 1 tea spoonful \ pint ... 1 A few drops 1 spoonful MINCE Chop fine, and put into the stew- pan. Sprinkle over to thicken the sauce, and brown the onions. Add. Let the sauce boil 5 minutes. Put in the slices of liver, and heat them. Put the meat on a hot dish. Beat up and add to the sauce. Add. Add. Pour the sauce over the liver. Put round the dish. OF MUTTON. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 4... 5— 6... Note Cold roast mutton Salt Pepper Gravy .—Mutton warmed 31.—» in this way ei IUTTOH Cut in slices. | Sprinkle over. Put the meat in a dish that can be put in the oven. Pour over to cover the meat. Warm up in a bain-marie, or in the oven, and serve very hot. its as if it were fresh cut from the hot joint. [ BOULETTES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Remains of cold mutton Sausage-meat lib. ... J lb. ... I Mince and mix together.124 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. MUTTON BOULETTES—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 3- Bread crumbs 3 oz. ... Steep in milk. 4... Milk 2 table spoonsful 5... Boiled i lb. ... Add to the mince and mix all up together with a wooden spoon. 6... potatoes Chopped herbs 7... Salt, pepper ... 8... 9... Beaten yolks of eggs Flour 2 - Sprinkle over a pasteboard. 10... Take a spoonful of mince and roll it into a ball on the board. 11... Bread crumbs Dip each ball in. 12... Butter or fat i'ib. Melt in a frying-pan. 13... Throw in the boulettes. 14... Fry brown and serve with sauce piquante, or tomato sauce. 32—SLICED MUTTON, a la bourgeois*. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Remains of riib. ... Cut into thin slices. cold mutton 2... Butter iib. ... Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. 3- Flour 1 table Sprinkle over, stirring with a wooden Salt, pepper... Mutton gravy spoonful spoon. 4... ipint ... J- Add gradually, still stirring. 6... 7... Eschalots Sweet herbs... 2 or 3 ... | Chop and add. 8... Stock £ pint ... Add enough for gravy. 9... Let it simmer an instant uncovered. 10... Put in the meat to warm. 11... Vinegar A few 12... Sliced gherkins drops | Add at the moment of serving.MUTTON. 33.-SLICED MUTTON. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cold mutton i\ lb. ... Cut into thin slices. 2... Butter r.. i lb. ... Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. 3-- Flour ... 1 table Sprinkle over and stir with a wooden spoonful spoon. 4... Stock Enough for sauce > Pour in, still stirring. 5«- White wine ... 1 wine glass I 6... Salt, pepper ... To taste Add. 7... Let it simmer uncovered. 8... Pjif in flip dip#»c of" mntfnn 1 Ul 111 LUG SIlCCS Ul 111 U LUUll. g... Parsley A few sprigs 10... Eschalots 2 or 3 j> Chop fine and sprinkle over. 11... Tarragon A few 12... sprigs Let it simmer but not boil. 13... Gherkins 3 or 4 Slice and put a little on each slice of meat when you serve. 34—HASHED MUTTON. French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Remains of cold mutton 2... Sausage meat k lb. to ► Hash and mix in a pan. 1 lb. of mutton 3- Boiled pota- toes 1 lb. ... Mash and add. 4... Salt and pepper Add. 5- Eggs 1 or 2 ... Beat up and add, stirring all up i lb. ... together. 6... Butter Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. 7... 8... Chopped herbs Chopped 1 mushrooms ► Add, stirring all the time. 9... Flour i tea spoonful \ pint ... J 10... Stock Add gradually.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 126 HASHED MUTTON, French receipt—(continued). Order. 1 T Ingredients. Quantities. Method. II... Put in the hash. 12... Salt and pepper Sprinkle over again. 13... Dress the hash in a pyramid on the dish. 14.... Toasted breac Serve with the meat. 35.-MUTTON CROQUETTES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. ... Remains of i lb. Plpor frnm fof ckin onrl rrricf1*» n n A \slGal LLKJiH Ictt, oiv.111, aim HllollC, dllCi cold roast W1HJJJ LUC IJltaL vci y 1111c mutton 2... Cold veal, Half the Ann if 1ib"*»H or\A rnnn TxrifVi fVio n.uu 11 iiRcu, aim. c l 1 up wiiii 111c beef, or pork quantity mutton. of either 3— Butter 2 oz. lvieit in a stewpan. 4... Pepper and salt Add. 5-" Stock 1 pint ... Add. O... Parsley 1 tea AAA spoonful chopped 7... Yolks 01 eggs 2 Add. 8... Put in the meat, and let it get quite hot without boiling. 9... Spread it on a dish to cool. 10... When cold, divide in equal portions. 11... Form them into egg shaped balls. 12... Grated crumbs Roll the balls in the crumbs. 13... Whites of eggs 2 Beat a little, but not to a froth. 14... Salt and pepper Add to the beaten whites. 15... Olive oil 1 dessert A A A Ada. spoonful IO. . . Water 1 dessert AAA A 11 * 4.1, Add, and mix well togetner. spoonful 17... Dip the balls in this mixture, and roll them again in bread crumbs. 18... Butter or lard lib. ... Melt in a frying pan. 19... Fry the balls a light brown on both sides. 20... Salt Sprinkle over. 21... Fried parsley To garnish Pile the croquettes on a dish, and garnish with fried parsley.127 LAMB. SECTION VI.—LAMB. 1.—FORE-QUARTER OF LAMB, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Fore-quarter of lamb Buttered paper Flour Salt Butter Cut paper Mint sauce .. Cut lemon .. Cayenne Fresh butter.. Cut off the scrag from the shoulder, saw off the shank-bone and the chine bone along the fillet of the leg; partially saw the rib-bones and break the shoulder-bone, then twist it round and fasten it with a skewer from beneath the breast. Cover the lamb. Roast it before a quick fire. A joint of 10 lbs. will take hours. Dredge over just before removing from the fire, do. Baste the joint to make it froth up. Twist round the shank-bone. Place the joint on a hot dish and pour a little gravy, made in the dripping-pan, over it. Serve in a sauce boat. Should be ready for use, to be laid between the shoulder and ribs when separated. 2.—QUARTER OF LAMB, boned. Order. Ingredients, Quantities. Method. I... Quarter of Bone. lamb 2... Forcemeat ... Stuff the lamb, roll it round, and tie with string. 3- Buttered paper Cover the lamb, and roast it 15 minutes to every lb. 4... Melted butter Serve separately.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 128 3—SADDLE OF LAMB, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3— Saddle of lamb Butter Mint sauce ... 2 OZ. Cover with buttered paper, and roast it at a quick fire. Baste the joint constantly at first, then with its own dripping. Serve separately. 4—TARGET OF LAMB, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Target This joint consists of the breast and neck joints, not separated. Take the flap bones from the neck, saw off the chine bone and chop the ribs. Cover the joint, and roast before a bright fire 1^ hours. Dredge over the joint just before taking it up. Baste the joint to make it froth up. Serve separately. 3--- 4... 5- 6... Buttered paper Salt and flour Butter Mint sauce .,. 2 OZ. 5—LOIN OF LAMB, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-" 4... 5- 6... Loin of lamb Buttered paper Flour, pepper Butter Mint sauce ... ij OZ. ... This is a very small joint, only suit- able for 1 or 2 persons. Take care it does not burn in roasting. Cover the meat, but remove a few minutes before serving. Dredge over before taking up. Baste before serving. Serve separately. 6—LEG OF LAMB, roasted. See preceding receipt. Time, if hours for 6 lbs.LAMB. 7.—LEG OF LAMB, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Leg of lamb... Select one weighing about 5 lbs. 2... Warm water Pour over the lamb, and let it soak more than 2 hours. 3- Wrap it in a cloth, and boil slowly 14 hours. 4... Carrots ) Serve with the lamb, either on the 5... Turnips j same dish or separately. 6... Parsley and Serve in a sauce-boat. butter 8.—BREAST OP LAMB, en fricassee. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Breast of lamb Cut into small slices and put in a pan. 2... Boiling water Pour over and let the meat soak. 3- Dry in a cloth. 4... Butter i'ik Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. 5- Flour 1 table spoonful Dredge over, stirring with a wooden spoon. 6... Stock I pint ... Pour over gradually, still stirring. 7... Put the meat in the stewpan. 8... Mushrooms ... 3 or 4 ... 9... 10... Small onions Salt 3 or 4 ... jAdd. 11... Bunch of herbs 12... Let all simmer 1 hour. 13... Take out the bunch of herbs before the stew is done. 14... Yolks of eggs 2 Beat up in the basin. 15... Lemon juice 2 or 3 Pour into the egg. drops 16... Put the meat on a warm dish. 17... Pour the egg gradually into the sauce, stirring all the time. 18... Pour the sauce over the meat and serve hot. Ki3o MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 9.—SHOULDER OF LAMB, with green peas. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Shoulder of lamb Take out the bone. 2... Forcemeat ... f lb. Stuff the lamb, and sew it up. 3 — Bacon A few Place in a stewpan. slices 4... Put the meat on the bacon, and cover it with more slices. 5- Stock 1 quart ... Pour over the meat. 6... Onions 2 Add. 7... Celery ... \ head ... Add. 8... Herbs A bunch Add.' 9... Salt, pepper ... To taste Add. 10... Stew very gently for 2 hours. 11... Green peas ... 1 pint .. Boil separately. 12... Put the peas in a dish, and place the meat on them. J3- Reduce and strain the gravy and pour over all before serving. 10.-SHOULDER OP LAMB, glazed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Shoulder of Bone it, then sew it up, and give it a lamb good shape. 2... Bacon |lb. ... Lard the upper part. Put it in a stewpan. 4... Strong meat 2 table Add. jelly spoonsful 5- Onion 1 stuck Add. with cloves 6... Sweet herbs... A bunch Add. 7- Put on the cover, and let it simmer 1 hour. 8... Take off the cover, and put the stew- pan in the oven. 9... Baste every 10 minutes to glaze the meat. 10... Serve with Bechamel sauce.LAMB. ll.-LAMB CUTLETS, French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 7- Lamb cutlets Butter Salt Yolks of eggs Bread crumbs Slices of lemon 2 lbs. ... Flatten with a knife. 4 lb. ...I Melt in a frying-pan over a slow fire. ...j Sprinkle over. ! Brown the cutlets in the pan. ! Take out the cutlets and let the butter cool in the pan. 2 ...! Beat up and pour gently into the butter, stirring with a wooden spoon. ... Dip the cutlets in the pan. ... Take the cutlets out of the pan and | dip into the crumbs. ... Place the cutlets on a gridiron. Turn, and serve when nicely browned. ... Serve with the cutlets. 12.-LAMB CHOPS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Chops from Let them be about | inch thick. the loin 2... Broil over a clear fire. 3- Pepper and salt When they are done, sprinkle over. 4... Mashed A mould Put in a hot dish. potatoes 5... Place the chops leaning against the potatoes, and serve hot. 13.—LAMB CUTLETS, with French beans. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cutlets Trim them neatly. 2... Salt and pepper Sprinkle over. 3- Butter 2 oz. Melt and fry the cutlets in it. 4... French beans Boil separately. 5- Put the beans in the centre of the dish, and arrange the cutlets around it. Note.—Any other vegetables, such as peas or asparagus, can be served with lamb cutlets. K o132 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOOK. 14.-LAMB'S FRY. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Lamb's fry ... Yolk of egg ... Bread crumb mixed with chopped parsley Pepper and salt Fried parsley i lb. i 4 oz. Boil 15 minutes. Drain dry. 1 Dip the fry into the egg, then into the bread, &c. Sprinkle over. Fry till it is a nice colour (about 5 minutes). Serve on a folded napkin. Put round the fry. 15.-BAGOUT OP LAMB. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cold roast ii lb. ... Cut in neat slices and trim. lamb 2... 3- Salt Pepper | Sprinkle over. 4... Butter 40Z. Melt in a stewpan, and put in the slices of lamb at the same time. 5... Hot stock ... \ pint ... Add. 6... Let the meat stew for £ hour, then take it out and keep it hot. 7... Flour 1 tea Dredge into the sauce to thicken it. spoonful 8... Pickled A few Cut in slices and add. gherkins 'Add. 9... Vinegar A few drops 10... Put the lamb on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over. 11... Toasted sippets Put round the dish and serve.133 LAMB. 16—BLANQUETTE OF LAMB. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Shoulder of lamb 2... Butter 3- Flour 4... Veal broth . 5- Gravy from the braising pan 6... Small white onions 7... Mushrooms . Yolks of eggs Boiled milk .., Salt Pepper Lemon juice Parsley Toasted sippets 2 oz. 1 dessert spoonful % pint ... 1 teacup ful A few sprigs Take off the meat, cover it with buttered paper, and stew in a braising pan till cooked. Melt in a stewpan. Add and stir well, but do not let the butter brown. Add. Strain, and add. Cook separately in butter, then add them to the sauce. Boil for a few minutes, then take off the fire. Beat up. Add to the eggs, and pour into the sauce. Add to flavour the sauce. Chop fine and add. Make the sauce rather thick, and thin down with milk if necessary. Cut the meat in neat slices, and lay them in a hot dish. Pour the sauce over. Put round the dish. Note.- mutton, 1 —Remains of cold roast lamb can be dressed in the same ways as cold roast as croquettes, boulettes, &c.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 134 SECTION VII.—PORK. l.-ROAST SUCKING PIG. Order. 12. 13- Ingredients. Quantities. Sucking pig... Sageandonion stuffing Flour Good gravy ... Lemon juice.. Bread, apple or tomato sauce £ or i pint Very little A few drops Method. Well clean. Stuff (if veal forcemeat is preferred, stuff with that). Sew it up with strong thread. Truss it like a hare with its fore-legs skewered back, and its hind-legs forward. Dry it well. Dredge over it. Set it before a clear fire. Baste it with butter till there is enough of its own gravy. When it is done, cut off the head, split it in halves, divide the pig with a very sharp knife down the centre, lay the backs together, put the ears on each side, and the halves of the head at each end of the dish. Pour over. Squeeze over. Send some of the same gravy to table in a sauce-boat. May be eaten with it at will.i35 PORK. 2—LEG OF PORK, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Si- Leg of pork ... ... Brown gravy and apple sauce 6 or 7 lbs. Score the skin with a sharp knife all round the joint. Place it at some distance from the fire, turn constantly and baste well. Serve with it. 3.- LEG OF PORK, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Leg of pork . Cold water , Cold water , Turnips and parsnips Rub well with salt and let it remain a week in pickle, turning and rubbing it once a day. Pour over and let it steep £ hour to improve the colour. Put it into a large pot. Pour over till it swims. Let it boil gradually and skim as the scum rises. It may be boiled in a cloth dredged over with flour, which makes it look well, but in that case the water cannot be used for soup. Garnish the dish and serve separately. 4.—SPARERIB OF PORK, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Sparerib Score the skin as for leg of pork. 2.., Flour Dredge over. 3- Put it down to a bright fire and roast 20 minutes to the pound. 4... Baste well. 5- Chopped sage I table Strew over 10 minutes before it is spoonful done.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 136 5.-LOIN OF PORK, roasted. Cooked in the same way as a leg of pork. 6.-CHINE OF PORK, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3— Chine Apple sauce... Stuff with sage and onions, Roast 20 minutes to the lb. Serve separately. 7.-CHINE OF PORK, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4— Chine Water Let it lie in brine 9 or 10 days, turn- ing it every day. Put it into a saucepan. Pour over till it swims. Let it boil slowly, skimming well. 8.—ROAST PORK, French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Joint of pork 3 01*4 lbs. Trim, leaving only £ inch of fat. 2... Put it into a pan. 3- Olive oil 1 quart ... Pour over. 4... Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. 5- 6... Bunch of herbs Sliced onions 3 or 4 ... | Add. 7... 8... Let it soak 24 hours. Take out the meat, score the fat for crackling. 9... Put it to roast before a quick fire. 10... A piece of 4 lbs. will take 2 hours, 2 lbs. will take i£ hours. 11... Strain the oil the pork has been soak- ing in, and baste the meat with it. 12... Salt Sprinkle over \ hour before the meat is done. 13... Tomato sauce or sauce piquante Serve separately in a sauce-boat.137 PORK. 9.- -PIG'S HEAD, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Pig's head ... Boil tender enough to take the bon out. 2... Sage Chop fine. 3- Pepper, salt... Mix with the sage. 4... Rub the sage over the head. 5- Roast before a good fire. 6... Baste well. 7... Good gravy ... Make and pour over the head. 8... Apple sauce... Serve with it. 10.—PORK CHOPS, French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Pork chops ... Cut off most of the fat, trim anc beat them flat. 2... Put them into a dish. 3- Olive oil Pour over. 4... Salt, pepper... 5— Bunch of 1 parsley J>Add. 6... Bay leaf 1 7... 8... Cloves J Let them soak 1 or 2 days. 9... Warm a gridiron. 10... Broil the chops on both sides. 11... Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. 12... Tomato sauce or sauce piquante Serve separately at will. 11.—PORK CUTLETS, with vegetables. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 2... 3- Small cutlets 6 free from bone Take off all skin and gristle and beat a little. Trim them into the shape of pears. Soak them in oil for 24 hours.i38 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. PORK CUTLETS, with vegetables—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a stewpan. D Put in the cutlets. 6... Gravy J pint ... Add. 7... Brown the cutlets and glaze them. 8... Arrange them round the edge of 1 hot dish. 9... Mashed "1 1 potatoes, or celery, or J- Put in the middle of the dish. 1 other vegetable j 12. HAM, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Ham or piece of ham Clean well, and let it soak 12 hours in water. 2... Dry in a cloth. 3- 4... Bunch of herbs Tie a string round and put it in a large pot. 5... Onion stuck with a clove j.Add, 6... Pepper 7— 8... Water Pour over till all is covered. Let it boil gently 6 or 7 hours. 9— Prick with a fork to see if it is done. 10... When done, draw the pot off the fire, and let the ham cool in the water. 11... Dry in a cloth. 12... Chopped Sprinkle over a large dish. parsley Place the ham on it. 13... 14... Brandy I table Pour over the ham. spoonful 15... Grated toast... Sprinkle over.PORK. 139 13.—PIG'S CHEEK, a la bonvgeoise. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 11... 12... Pig's cheek ... Boiling water Carrots Onions Cloves stuck into onions Salt, pepper Bunch of parsley, thyme, cher- vil, bay-leaf Water 2 2 2 A few sprigs of each Singe over a clear fire. Place in a pan. Pour over and well clean the inside. Dry in a cloth. Place in a pot or large saucepan. .Add. Pour over till all is covered. Let it boil gently 4 or 5 hours, 14-PIG'S CHEEK, English fashion. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Pig's cheek ... Boil like a ham. Glaze it well or grate toast over it. 15.- -PIG'S CHEEK, stuffed. Order. Ingredients. | Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... Pig's cheek ... Onions stuck with cloves Bunch of thyme, pars- ley, bay-leaf, chervil, and chives 2 A few sprigs of each Singe, steep in boiling water and dry in a cloth. Put it in a pot or large saucepan. i Add.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 140 PIG'S CHEEK, stuffed—(continued). Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Water Remains of roast fowl or veal Salt pork Bread crumbs Cream Salt, pepper. I 4 lb. of j each 3 oz. soaked in cream £ pint Pour over till all is covered. Let it boil 2 hours. > Mince. > Add to the mince. Sprinkle over. Take out the cheek, drain and stuff with the preceding ingredients. Tie up with string, put it in the oven and bake for 2 hours. 16.—PIG'S FEET preparation, French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Pig's feet 4 Singe over a clear fire. 2... Put them into a pan. 3- Boiling water Pour over. 4... Clean them well, then wipe them in a cloth, and tie them up with string. 5- Put them into a stewpan. 6... Slices of 301-4 ... - bacon 7... Carrots 2 8... Onions 2 9... Cloves stuck 2 in onions > Add. 10... Bunch of parsley, thyme, bay- leaf, chervil, and chives A few sprigs of each141 PORK. PIG'S FEET, preparation, French receipt—[continued). Ingredients. Quantities. Method. White wine Stock with the fat taken off Equal quantities I Pour over till all is covered. Let them simmer 12 hours. Take out the feet and drain them. The next day put them to simmer 12 hours more. The feet are then ready for cooking with a sauce. 17.—PIG'S FEET, a la sainte-Mcnehould. Order. Ingredients. Quantities Method. Pig's feet Bread crumbs Salt, pepper... Butter Prepare them according to the pre- ceding receipt, or buy them ready prepared from the pork butcher. 3 oz. ... Put in a dish. Sprinkle over. 2 02 ,. Melt in a fryingpan over a slow fire. Dip the feet in the fryingpan, then into the bread crumbs. Warm a gridiron, place the feet on it, and broil them a nice brown. Turn once and serve without sauce. 18.-PIG'S KIDNEYS. These are cooked in the same way as sheeps' kidneys. 19.-HOCHEPOT OF PORK. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- Pork, fresh or pickled Pig's foot Pig's ear I lb. ... I I Cut in pieces, and put in a saucepan. Cut in two and add. Add. 1MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 142 HOCHEPOT OF PORK—(continued). Order. Ingredients 0 uauti ties Method. 4... Cold water ... Enough to cover the whole. 5... Herbs A bunch Add. 6... Onions 2 stuck Add. with cloves / * Peppercorns... A few ... Add. 8... Let it boil for 1^ hours. g... Carrots 4 Add. IO... Turnips 2 Add. II... Celery 1 stick ... Add. 12... Cabbage 1 if liked Blanch, cut in four, and add. IS". Potatoes A dozen Add. 14... Salt If required Add. 15... ... Cover the saucepan, and let it boil till the potatoes are done, but not broken. I6.., Serve all together in a deep dish. Note.—This is an economical dish for a large family. 20.-PORK CUTLETS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities Method. Cold roast pork Bread crumbs Salt, cayenne pepper Savoury herbs Eschalots Buttter Tomato sauce or currie sauce x* lb. 4 oz. Chopped fine 2 or 3 chopped 2 oz. Cut in nice slices and trim off the fat. Put in a dish. Add to the bread crumbs. > Add to the crumbs if liked. ) Melt on a slow fire. Dip the cutlets in the butter, then in the seasoned crumbs. Broil them over a brisk fire. Serve with the cutlets.143 21.—HASHED PORK. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cold roast ii lb. ... Cut in thin slices. pork 2... Butter 1 oz. Melt on the fire. 3- Flour 1 tea spoonful Add. 4... Onions 2 sliced Fry ia the butter. and stuck with cloves Pepper and salt To taste Add. 6... Stock 1 pint ... Add. 7... Put in the meat and stew gently for \ hour. 8... Vinegar A few drops Add. g... Toasted bread Serve in sippets with the meat to garnish the dish. 22,-PORK CHEESE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cold roast 2 lbs. Cut in very small pieces. pork 2... Fat lib. ... Chop and mix with the lean. 3- Salt and pepper To taste Add. 4... Parsley [ A few j sprigs 5... Thyme | Chop very fine, and add. 6... Sage 7... 8... Grated nutmeg Add to flavour. Mix all well together, and put in a mould. 9... Good gravy ... Add till the mould is full. 10... Bake in a gentle oven for i\ hour. 11... Leave in the mould till cold. Note.—Minced mushrooms or truffles will improve the flavour.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 144 23—BRAWN. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Pig's head ... ... Choose a large head with the ears and tongue, wash and scrape it, and put it in strong brine with a little salt-petre in it for a day or two. 2... Pig's feet 4 Add to the head. 3- Take the meat out of the pickle, and wash it well in hot water. 4... Boiling water In a large saucepan, enough to cover the meat. 5- Onions 2 stuck with cloves Add. 6... Bunch of savoury herbs Add. 7- Pepper, salt... Sprinkle on the meat. 8... Boil the head and feet until tender. g... Let it cool a little, then take out all the bones, and cut the meat in small pieces. TO... Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. II... Spice 2 tea Different kinds pounded and sprinkled spoonsful over the meat. 12... Put the meat in a mould. I3... Stock 1 tea Add a little of the stock to fill the cupful mould. ]4... Bay-leaves ... 2 or 3 ... Lay on the meat. 15 .. Put a small plate and weight on the meat, and bake in the oven for £ hour. 16... ••• ••• <• ; Let it stand till cold, pressed down with weights or a presser the whole time. Remove the bay-leaves before serving.PORK. t45 24 - SAUSAGE MEAT. Lean pork .. Fat Salt Pepper Nutmeg Minced sage Quantities. 3 lbs. ... 2 lbs. ... oz. ... I OZ. i grated 3 table spoonsful Method. Take off all the skin, and chop fine. Chop and mix with the lean. Sprinkle over by degrees, do. Add if liked. Mince very fine and add. Mix all well together while chopping, turning the meat frequently on the board. Form into cakes, floured and baked, or fried, or put into skins in the usual way. 25,-BACON FOR LARDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Bacon Cut it in thin narrow strips. 2... Hold the meat to be larded with the left hand. 3-: Push in the larding pin leaving the ends out on each side. 4- Put a piece of bacon in the outside opening of the pin. 5- Pull the larding pin towards you leaving some bacon out on each side. 6. . Continue larding the meat in a straight line at equal distances, but in the next row alternate the holes, putting them between those of the previous row. LMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 26. TO MELT LARD. Order. Ingredients. j Quantities. Pig's fat Water Method. Choose it white and thick. Take off the skin, cut it in small pieces, and put it in an earthen* ware jar. Boil in a large saucepan, only half filled. When boiling, put in the jar con- taining the fat, and boil fast. Pour the melted fat gently into stone jars to keep. Put any remains of fat on the fire again, simmer gently, and pour off. Do not mix this with the lard first prepared, as it is less good, and will not keep so long. 2 7.-HAM, boiled. Ingredients. Ham Cold water Herbs Carrots Raspings Quantities. 14 lbs. A bunch 3 or 4 .. Method. Soak in water 12 hours, changing the water occasionally. Scrape, trim, and clean the ham. Put it in a large kettle. Pour over till covered. Bring it slowly to the boil and let it simmer gently about 4 hours, or until tender; skim well. ) Put in after the scum has been j cleared off. When done strip off the skin and let the ham drain. Strew over the ham.POULTRY. 147 SECTION VIII.—POULTRY. l.-TO TRUSS A FOWL. 1. Pick and singe it. 2. Cut off the neck close to the head. 3. Take out the crop, and with the middle finger loosen the liver and other parts of the breast end. 4. Cut off the vent. 5. Draw the fowl clean. 6. Wash out and wipe the inside quite dry. 7. Beat the breastbone flat with a rolling-pin. 8. Put a skewer in the first joint of the pinion, and bring the middle of the leg close to it. g. Put the skewer through the middle of the leg and through the body, and do the same on the other side. 10. Put another skewer in the small of the leg and through the sides- man, and do the same on the other side. 11. Put another through the skin of the feet, and cut the nails off. 12. Clean out and wash the gizzard. 13. Remove the gall-bag from the liver, and put both liver and gizzard in the pinions. 2.—RECEIPT FOR MAKING AN OLD FOWL TENDER. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Cold water ... Wood cinders | 2 quarts j- Mix in a large pan. 3- Put the fowl in with its feathers on, and let it soak 24 hours. 4... Take it out and wash it. 5--- Pick it. 6... Dress it. 7... 3... 9... Let it hang 24 hours. Boil it 15 minutes. The fowl is then ready for roasting or stewing. 10... If you roast it, lard it first and baste it with butter when it is half done* L 2MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. i48 3.-R0AST CHICKEN OR FOWL. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Chicken Feather, singe, and dress it. 2... Butter I oz. Put into the body. 3- Sew it up with thread. 4... ... (French cooks put a chopped onion in the fowl along with the butter.) 5- Truss it. 6... Butter I oz. Place in the dripping pan, and baste the chicken with it. 7... 8... ... ... Salt ... A chicken will take % hour to roast, a fowl 1 hour. Dredge over when nearly done. g... Prick with a fork to see if it is done. 10... Cress, sea- soned with salt, pepper and vinegar Put round the dish if liked. 11... Sliced lemon Put round the dish. 12... Bread sauce... Serve separately. 4.-FOWL WITH RICE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Fowl Lard or butter Fat bacon Salt, pepper . Rice 2 oz. 4 lb. ilb. Dress and boil J hour. Take it out of the pot and drain it. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. Cut in slices and put in the stewpan till brown. Take out the bacon and put in the fowl- Turn it till it is well browned all over. Sprinkle over. Put in another saucepan with enough stock to cover it, adding stock from time to time, and stirring with a wooden spoon. When the rice is tender, put in the fowl and the fried bacon on the top of it.149 POULTRY. FOWL WITH RICE—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 10... II... 12... I3... Stock Bunch of herbj 1 pint ... Cover the whole with it. Add. Let all simmer uncovered till the fowl is done. Put the stew in a hot oven the last i hour. Serve the fowl on the rice. 5.-BOILED FOWL OR CHICKEN. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3... 4... 6... 7... 8... Fowl or chicken Hot water ... Parsley and butter Boiled tongue, ham, or bacon Truss for boiling. Fold in a white floured cloth and put into a stewpan. Pour over till covered. Let it come gradually to the boil, and skim very carefully as the scum rises. Let it simmer very sloivly. Boil a fowl 1 hour and a chicken \ hour. When done, place on a hot dish, and take out the skewers. Pour over and serve separately. 9... Serve separately. 6.—STEWED FOWL, en daube. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Old fowl Baccn 2 thin slices Singe, dress, and cut off the ends of the wings and feet. Put at the bottom of a stewpan.150 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. STEWED FOWL, en daube—(continued). Order. 3- 4... 5... 6... 7- 8... 9... 10... 11... 12... 13... 14... 15... 16... 17... 18... 19... 20... 21... Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Boiled calf's foot Bunch of herbs Onions Bay leaf Salt, pepper... Carrots Large slice 01 bacon Brandy White wine ... Stock 7- I 2 I If liked ... J wine glass \ wine glass i pint ... CHICKI Put the fowl on the top of the bacon. Cut into four and add. 1 Add. ) Sprinkle over. Slice and add. Cover over the whole. 1 1 } Add to cover all. j Put the lid on the stewpan and close it hermetically. Ler it simmer 5 hours. Prick the fowl with a fork to see if it is done. Take out the fowl carefully, and place it in a deep dish. Place the calf's feet and vegetables round it. Strain the remainder of the sauce. Put it on the fire again for 2 minutes. Pour over the fowl and serve. 3NS, & la diable. Ingredients. J Quantities. Method. I... 3- 4... 5-» 6... Small, plump chickens Salt, pepper ... Olive oil 2 A few drops Singe and dress. Cut them down the back. Beat them flat. Sprinkle over, do. Warm a gridiron, rub some oil on it, put the chickens to broil, and when they are well browned on both sides, serve with pepper sauce.POULTRY, 8.—CHICKEN, « la bourgeoise. Ingredients. Chicken Fresh butter Salt, pepper. Carrots Onions Salt, pepper Stock White wine Quantities. i pint i wine glass Method. Singe, dress, and truss. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. Fry the chicken a nice brown. Sprinkle over. Take out the fowl and keep it warm. Cut into thin slices and throw them into the butter that remains in the stewpan. Add whole. Let them slightly brown. Put the fowl in again. Sprinkle over all. Let all stew i hour. Add. Turn the chicken. Let it simmer another hour. Serve with the vegetables round the fowl. Strain the sauce and pour over. 9.—FRICASSEED FOWL. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Fowl or chickens Cold water, with white wine, vinegar or lemon juice Butter Salt, pepper... Flour i } i pint I J Dress and cut up into joints. Put it with the giblets into a pan. > Pour over till all is covered. lib. i table spoonful i Let all soak 2 hours. Take out the meat, and wipe it in a cloth. Melt in a stewpan over a slow lire. Sprinkle over. Add.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. FRICASSEED FOWL—[continued). Order. I Ingredients. Stock or water the fowl was soaked in Bunch of herbs Onions, small Cock's-comb Mushrooms ... Beaten yolks of eggs Lemon juice.. Quantities. If liked Cut in two A few drops Method. Put the fowl into the butter, and stir with a wooden spoon till the butter melts, but do not let the fowl brown. Pour over till the fowl is covered. Add. Let all simmer gently 40 minutes. Put in boiling water to whiten them. j Add to the stew with the onions. Cover the stewpan with buttered paper. Let all stew another 20 minutes, making 1 hour in all. Prick the pieces of fowl with a fork to see if they are done. Dress the pieces of fowl and giblets in the centre of the dish, and the onions and mushrooms round it. Add to the sauce when it has been strained and does not boil. Stir in well, pour over the fowl, and serve. 10-CHICKEN, cm blanc. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Chicken I ' Pick, singe, and truss as for boiling. 2... Water ij pint ... Put in an enamelled saucepan. 3— Butter 2 oz. Add. 4... Sweet herbs... A bunch Add. 5- Onion 1 cut in two Add. 6... Salt A pinch Add. 7... 8... When it boils put in the chicken. Let it boil quickly, to reduce the liquor one-half when the chicken is done.POULTRY. i53 CHICKEN, an blanc—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. g... JO... 11... 12... 13... 14... 15... 16... 17... 18... 19... 20... 21... 22... Butter Flour Yolk of egg ... Milk Lemon juice Pepper Butter I oz. 1 tea spoonful 1 or 2 ... 1 or 2 dessert spoonsful 1 lemon A little ... \ oz. Take out the chicken and keep it hot. Strain the liquor through a sieve. 1 Work together into a ball and put f in a stewpan. Add part of the liquor and boil 5 minutes. Beat up. | Add to the egg and beat in. When the sauce has ceased boiling add the beaten egg to it. Put it back on the fire and if it is too thick add more broth. A A A Ada. Add. Put the chicken in breast downwards, and let it simmer a few minutes without boiling. Put the chicken on a hot dish breast upwards. Add to the sauce, stir in, and pour the sauce over the chicken. 11- ■CHICKEN, a let Marengo. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3"- 4... 5-- 6... 7... 8... Chicken Olive oil Eschalots Garlic Pepper, salt ... Sherry I i wine glassful i oz. If liked ... 1 wine glassful Divide in small joints. Heat in a stewpan. Add whole. Crush 1 clove and add. Add. Put in the larger joints of chicken first, then the smaller ones. Turn with a fork, till all are browned, this will take about \ hour. Put in a small saucepan.154 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOOK. CHICKEN, a la Marengo—(continued). Older Ingredient's. • • Q u tin titles. Method. i j... Stock . 2 pmt . „ .. , <---—- Add. 10... Eschalots ... 2 1 11... Parsley • *• A few 1 * ! Chop fine, and add to the sauce in j the small saucepan. 12... Chives sprigs A few ... 13— Mushrooms ... A dozen J 14... Pepper, salt... Add. 15... Gravy from 2 table Take from the stewpan, and add to chicken spoonsful the sauce. 16... Boil gently for 10 minutes. 17... Put the joints of chicken on a dish. 18... Pour the sauce over. ig... Fried sippets Put round the dish to garnish. 12-CHICKEN, broiled. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 1... Young chicken 2... Olive oil Lemon juice... Parsley Pepper, salt... Bread crumbs \ pint ... 1 lemon... A little chopped 3 oz. Cut it down the back, and flatten it. Mix together, and put the chicken )> in to steep an hour or two before I cooking it. Roll the chicken in, and cover well. Broil it on both sides. Serve with hot pepper sauce. 1 13.—CHICKEN, saute. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Chicken I Cut in joints as for a fricassee 2... Butter I oz. Melt in a stewpan. 3-- Put in the joints without touching. 4... Pepper, salt ... Sprinkle over. Turn the joints frequently until done; they will take about 25 minutes.POULTRY. 155 CHICKEN, saute—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 6... Put them on a dish and keep hot. 7... Flour I oz. Add to the sauce in the stewpan. 8... Stock •| pint ... Add and stir well. g... Pepper, salt... Add. 10... Chopped 1 tea Add. parsley spoonful 11... Reduce the sauce and pour it over the chicken and serve. Note.—Small mushrooms fried in butter, or sliced truffles, and a glass of white wine may be added to the sauce. 14.—CHICKEN, filleted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Chicken 2 Cut off the flesh in fillets, and trim them in pear shape. 2... Butter \ lb. ... Melt in a stewpan. 3- Put in the fillets side by side. 4... Buttered paper i sheet ... Cover over the fillets. 5- Simmer on a gentle fire. 6... Bones, skin, &c, of chickens 1 Put in a saucepan, with a little f water, to make a gravy. 7... Salt, white pepper 'Add. 8... Flour and 1 oz. Knead together, and add when the butter gravy has been strained. 9... Reduce the sauce. 10... 11... Butter Lemon juice \ oz. 1 lemon > Add just before serving. 12... When the fillets are done, but not browned, put them in the sauce. 13... Truffles 8 slices ... Heat in butter. 14... Tongue 8 slices ... Heat with the truffles. 15... Serve the fillets of chicken, arranged round a dish, with alternate slices of tongue and truffles. 16... Add the butter from the truffles to the sauce, and pour it into tfie centre of the dish.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 156 15.—FOWL, ct la Montmorency. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Fowl i large Truss as for boiling. one 2... Bacon 4 lb. ... Lard the breast and upper part. 3-- Liver of fowl 4... Bacon l'ib. Beef suet i lb. ... 6... Truffles If liked ... >Chop and mix to make a forcemeat. 7... Mushrooms ... 3 or 4 ... 8... Salt and pepper g... Butter 1 oz. 10... Yolks of eggs 2 Beat and add to moisten the force- meat. 11... ... till the towl with the forcemeat, and sew up the opening. 12... Trimmings of ... Put in a stewpan. meat 13... Bacon A few Add. slices 14... Carrots 2 or 3 ... 15... Onions 2 stuck with \ Add to flavour the sauce. cloves 16... Sweet heibs... A bunch 17... Put the fowl on the top. iS... Stock ... Add as required. ig... Let the fowl simmer gently for 2 hours, and baste with the sauce. 20... Put it on a hot dish. 21... Skim and strain the sauce into another stewpan. 22... Reduce it until it is a glaze. 23... Put in the fowl with the larded side downwards. 24... When nicely browned put on a hot dish. 25... Stock A little ... Add to the sauce, scrape the glaze from the bottom of the pan, stir well and pour over the fowl.POULTRY. 157 18.—FOWL, curried. OrJer. Ingredients. (Quantities. Metho.l. I... 2... 3— 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 11... 12... 13... Fowl Butter Onions Flour Curry powder Salt Water Stock Apples or tomatoes Boiled rice ... 17.-TO I 2 OZ. 2 sliced ... 1 tea spoonful 1 table spoonful | pint ... do. ... 1 or 2 of either WARM Cut in small joints. Melt in a stew-pan. Add. Fry the fowl and onions in the butter, and take out the fowl when done. Add to the butter in the stew-pan. Add and mix well for 1 or 2 minutes. Add. Add boiling. Do. Put in the pieces of fowl and let a'l simmer very gently, f The apples must be pared and sliced, < the tomatoes skinned and freed ( from seeds, before adding. Serve the fowl on a hot dish with the sauce poured over it. Serve round the dish or separately. UP COLD FOWL. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2 .. 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... Remains of cold roast fowl Butter Flour Stock Mushroom buttons Salt, pepper Chopped eschalot Parsley White wine ... 2 OZ. 1 pinch ... \ pint ... 5 or 6 ... 1 1 bunch 1 wine glass Cut into slices. Put in a stewpan over a slow fire. Put the fowl on the butter. > Add at once.AIYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. TO WARM UP COLD FOWL—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. II... 12... I3... 14... Beaten yolk of egg Lemon juice I A few drops Let all simmer uncovered on a good fire. Take out the fowl and the parsley. Add to the sauce. Stir in well, pour over, and serve. 18.—COLD FOWL, en blanquette. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3" 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 11... 3 2... 13... 34... 15... Remains of cold fowl Butter Flour Salt, peprer... Parsley Warm water Yolk of egg ... Salt Lemon juice or vinegar 2 oz. I pinch ... 1 bunch... 1 A few drops Cut into slices. Leave out the fat and the skin. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fiie. Sprinkle over, stirring with a wooden spoon. Do. Put in the fowl. Add. Pour over till all is covered. Let it simmer, and towards the end take out the parsley. | Beat up. in a bowl. Put the fowl on a dish. Pour the egg into the sauce, stirring gently with a wooden spoon. Pour over the fowl and serve. 19.-FOWL CROQUETTES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. J... 2... 3- Butter Parsley Mushrooms ... 2 OZ. A few sprigs 2 or 3 ... Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. ) > Chop fine and throw into the butter. )159 POULTRY. Order. Ingredients, FOWL CROQUETTES—(continued). Method. Quantities. 4... 13- 14. 15- 16. 17. 18. Flour Salt, pepper.. Stock '.. Cream Remains of cold roast fowl Bread crumbs Eggs Salt A pinch. 1 teacup- ful 1 teacup- ful 4 oz. 2 yolks Fried parsley Sprinkle over, stirring with a wooden spoon. Sprinkle over. Let them simmer a moment. Pour over all and let the sauce simmer uncovered to thicken. Cut up into dice and throw into the sauce. Take the stewpan off the fire and let the contents get cold. Prepare. I Beat up in a basin. Take a spoonful of the contents of the stewpan and roll into a ball. Dip it into the bread crumbs, then into the egg. Fry in butter or lard a nice brown. Continue the operation till all the contents of the stewpan are used up. Put round the dish and serve hot. 20.-TO TRUSS A TURKEY. 1. Pick and singe carefully. 2. Break the leg-bones close to the feet. 3. Hang it on a hook and draw out the strings from the thigh. 4. Cut the neck off close to the back, but leave the crop-skin long enough to turn over the back. 5. Remove the crop, and with the middle finger loosen the liver and the gut at the throat end. 6. Cut off the vent, remove the gut, take a crooked wire and pull out the gizzard, and the liver will easily follow. 7. Take care not to break the gall-bladder, if you do, it will entirely spoil the flavour of the bird by giving it a bitter taste which no washing will remove. 8. Do not break the gut joining the gizzard either, lest the inside should become gritty.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. i6o TO TRUSS A TURKEY—[continued). g. Wipe the inside quite clean with a wet cloth. 10. Cut the breast-bone through on each side close to the back, ir. Draw the legs close to the crop. 12. Put a cloth on the breast and beat the breast-bone with a rolling pin till it lies flat. 13. Scald the feet, peel off the outer skin and cut away the claws, leave the legs on. 21.-TURKEY, roasted. Order Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Turkey Veal stuffing or sausage meat String Buttered paper Butter i*b. Hang from 5 to 14 days and truss according to preceding receipt. Fill the inside. Either sew the skin of the neck Over the back with a trussing needle, or fasten it with a very small skewer. Run a long skewer into the pinion and thigh through the body, pass- ing it through the opposite pinion and thigh. Put a skewer on the other side through the small part of the leg, close on the outside of the sides- man, and push it through. Clean the liver and gizzard and tuck them between the pinions, turn the point of the pinions on the back. Pass a string over the points of the skewers and tie it securely at the back to keep the bird well trussed. Cover the breast. Place the bird on the spit or roast- ing-jack, and set it at some distance from a very bright fire. Keep the heat well to the breast. Put in the dripping pan and baste the bird with it. Just before the turkey is done remove the paper.POULTRY. TURKEY, roasted—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I3... Flour Dredge over. 14... Butter Baste so as to brown and froth the bird. 15... Good brown Pour over the bird on the dish. gravy Serve in the dish. 16... Forcemeat balls 17... Bread sauce Serve separately. 22.—TURKEY, boiled. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Hen turkey Skewer Liver and gizzard Pack thread Clean cloth , Hot water Oyster sauce, celery sauce, or parsley and butter Hang 4 days. Cut the first joints of the legs off, raise the skin of the legs with the finger, and put them under the bird's apron. Put into the joint of the wing and the midddle joint of the leg, and run it through the body and the other leg and wing. Wash and put into the pinions. Turn the small end of the pinion on the back. Tie over the ends of the legs to keep them in their places. Wrap over the bird and put it in the pot. Pour over till the bird swims. Bring it gradually to the boil, and skim carefully. Let it simmer gently i£ or 2 hours, longer if it is very large. Pour over the bird and serve separately in a sauce-boat. Serve with boiled tongue or ham.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. White wine 12... 1 wine • Pour over all. 23.—TURKEY GIBLETS, a la bourgeoise. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Giblets Boiling water Butter Flour Water or stock Salt, pepper... Bunch of parsley, thyme, &c. Mushrooms or catchup Yolks of eggs oz. pint Put into a dish. Pour over and wash well. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. Put in the giblets to brown. Dredge over when browned. Pour over gradually, stirring. Sprinkle over. Add. Let all gently simmer uncovered till the giblets are done. Take out the herbs. Put the giblets in a deep dish and keep them warm. Beat up, add to the sauce when it has done boiling, and serve. 24—STEWED TURKEY, en daube. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Old turkey ... Dress, cut off the neck, tips of the wings and feet. 2... Fat bacon ... Jib. ... Cut into slices and cover the bottom of the stewpan. 3- Put the turkey on the bacon. 4... Salt, pepper... 5- Clove I 6... Garlic i clove ... 7... 8... Calf's feet ... Carrots 1 or 2 ... 2 > Add to the turkey. 9... Onions At will ... 10... Bunch of herbs 11... Stock or water 1} pint ... or brandy glassPOULTRY. 163 STEWED TURKEY, en daube—{continued). Order. ! Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 13... 14... 15... Buttered paper Cover the stewpan hermetically, and put the cover on too. Let all simmer 6 hours, taking care to turn the turkey when half cooked, serve with the vegetables. Strain the sauce and pour over. Note,—This is delicious coli, when the gravy forms a jelly. 25-TO WARM UP TURKEY, ci la bonne femme. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-" 4... 5-" 6... 7... Remains of roast turkey Parsley and chives Stock Vinegar Salt, pepper... A few . sprigs 2 table spoons 1 do. Cut into slices and put in a stewpan. Chop and sprinkle over the meat. | Pour over. Sprinkle over. Let all simmer. Serve in a deep dish, 26- THE SAME, en capilotade. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... Remains of roast turkey Eschalots Mushrooms . . Parsley Butter Flour Salt, pepper... 2 or 3 ... 3 or 4 ... A few sprigs 2 oz. 1 pinch ... Cut into slices. 1 Chop fine and mix together. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire, j Sprinkle over. M 2MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. THE SAME, en capilotade—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 8... g... 10... ii... 12... 13- 14... Stock White wine or vinegar h pint ... 5 pint ... 1 wine glass ) 1 Add gradually, rtirring, and let all j simmer uncovered a moment. Put the slices of turkey into this sauce. Cover the stewpan. Let all simmer | hour. Put the slices of turkey on a dish. Pour the sauce over and serve hot. 27.—THE SAME, a la chipolata. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 11... Thin slices of fat bacon Remains of roast turkey Small onions More fat bacon Stock Lemon Bunch of herbs Buttered paper 301-4 ... ij lb. ... 3 or 4 ... 1 pint ... 2 slices ... Put at the bottom of a stewpan. Cut into slices and place on the bacon. Blanch in boiling water and add. Cut into small slices and add. l Add. Cover the stewpan hermetically. Place on a slow fire and let it all simmer £ hour. Take out the turkey. Strain the sauce on to the dish and serve. 28.-SALMIS OF TURKEY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Remains of roast turkey Fat bacon ... \ lb. ... Cut into slices. Cut into thin slices and place at the. bottom of a stewpan.165 Poultry. SALMIS OF TURKEY—(continued). Ingredients. Mushrooms . Truffles Salt, pepper.. Bunch of parsley, chervil, and chives Claret and water Quantities J Chop and throw into the stewpan. Put the slices of turkey on the top of all. Season well. Add. Pour over till all is covered. Put the stewpan on a moderate fire, and let it stew well. Take the fat off the sauce and serve. 29.-TO TRUSS A GOOSE. 1. Pick it clean. 2. Cut the feet off at the joint, and the pinion off at the first joint. 3. Cut the neck off close to the back, but leave the skin of the neck long enough to turn over the back. 4. Pull out the throat and tie a knot at the end. 5. Loosen the liver, &c, at the breast end with the middle finger, and cut it open between the vent and the rump. 6. Draw out all the entrails except the soal, and wipe out the inside with a clean cloth. 7. Beat the breast-bone flat with a rolling-pin. 8. Put a skewer into the wing and draw the legs up close. g. Put a skewer through the middle of the legs and through the body. 10. Do the same on the other side. ri. Put another skewer in the small of the leg, tuck it close down to the sidesman and run it through. 12. Do the same on the other side. 13. Cut off the end of the vent and make a hole large enough for the passage of the rump, as by that means you will better secure the seasoning in its place.i6 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 30—GOOSE, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Goose Prepare as in preceding receipt. 2... Sage and onion stuff- ing Fill the goose, and fasten it in securely at both ends by passing the rump through a slit made in the skin, and tying the skin of the neck into the back. 3- Roast before a nice brisk fire for i| hours—longer if the bird is large. Baste frequently with its own gravy. 4... 5- Take out the skewers. 6... Good brown gravy Pour over on a hot dish. 7... Apple sauce Serve separately. 31—POTTED GOOSE, French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Wings and legs of roast Cut each into 2 so as to make 8 pieces. goose Put them into an earthen jar. 2... 3- Lard i'ib. ... Melt and boil 10 minutes. 4... Bunch of thyme and Add to the lard to give it a flavour, and season with salt and pepper to bay-leaf taste. 5... Pour the lard over the goose and let it get cold. 6... Cover it well. 7... This meat when warmed up is as good as fresh. 32.-TO TRUSS A DUCK. See the receipt for trussing geese, and follow it. The only difference is that the feet must be left on, and turned close to the legs.POULTRY. 167 33.-DUCK, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Duck Hang for one day, and longer if the weather permits. 2... Sage and Fill the inside. onion stuffing 3- Put it down to a clear bright fire, and baste constantly till done. 4... Flour Just before taking from the fire dredge the bird. 5- Butter 2 OZ. Baste with butter, to make it froth and brown. 6... Good gravy ... Pour round, not over. 34.-DUCK WITH TURNIPS, French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Duck Dress and truss. 2... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a large stewpan. 3- Put the duck in the butter to brown. 4... Take it out and keep it warm. 5- Flour i pinch ... Dredge over the butter that remains in the stewpan on the fire. 6... Stir it with a wooden spoon till the sauce is rather thick. 7... Small onions 3 or 4 ... -\ 8... Stock or water 1 pint ... 9... White wine 1 wine glass at will >Add. 10... Salt, pepper... 11... Bay-leaf Cut into dice and add. 12... Fat bacon ... 1 slice ... 13... Garlic £ clove ... 14... Parsley and | Chop fine and add. chives 15... Put in the duck. 16... Cover the stewpan. 17... Let it all simmer ^ hour. 18... Take out the duck, in order to strain and take the fat off the sauce.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOR. i68 DUCK WITH TURNIPS, French receipt—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. IQ... 20... 21... 22... 23... 24... 25... 26... 27... Turnips Butter ... Powdered sugar 4 or 5 ... 2 OZ, 1 pinch ... Cut into half-quarters. Melt in another stewpan. Put the pieces of turnip in the pan to brown. When they are browned, pour the sauce from the duck gradually over them. Sprinkle over if liked. Let all simmer a moment. Put the duck on the turnips, and let all stew \ hour. Put the duck on a hot dish, and place the turnips and onions round it. Pour the sauce over and serve. 35. -DUCK stewed with peas. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 11... 12... 13... 14... Duck Butter Salt, pepper... Flour Stock Bacon Green peas ... Salt, pepper... Parsley ) Chives j Jib. ::; To taste 1 pinch ... 1 pint ... Thin slices i\ pint ... To taste Tied in a bunch 1 Dress and truss. Melt in a large stewpan on a slow fire and put in the duck to brown. Sprinkle over. Brown the duck on both sides and put it on a dish to keep hot. Add to the butter in the pan. Add gradually stirring all the time. When the sauce is well mixed and thickened put in the duck. Lay on the duck if liked. 1 Add to the duck. Simmer gently on a slow fire and skim from time to time. Remove the bunch of herbs, pour the peas and sauce into a dish, place the duck on them and serve.Poultry. i6q 36.-SALMIS OF DUCK. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Wild or tame duck Partly roast and then take from the fire and cut in pieces. Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a stewpan on a slow fire, Flour i pinch ... Sprinkle in without browning. 4... «f- Stock Claret ipint ... 1 wine j Add stirring all the time with a [ wooden spoon. glass 6 .. Eschalots 2 J> Add to flavour 7... Salt, pepper... 8... Simmer gently for ^ hour. 9... ... Take out the eschalots. 10... Put the pieces of duck in the gravy and heat them, but do not let them boil. 11... Toasted bread 1 dozen sippets Place them round the dish. 12... Put the meat in the dish. 13... Lemon juice A few drops Add to the sauce, pour it over the meat and serve. Note.—Remains of cold roast goose can be used for this dish, 37.-TO TRUSS PIGEONS. 1. Wash thoroughly, as a pigeon requires a great deal of cleaning, 2. WTipe very dry before putting to the fire. 3. Draw as soon as killed. 4. Cut off the head and neck. 5. Truss the wings over the back. 6. Cut off the toes at the first joint. 38.-PIGEONS, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Pigeons 2 Prepare as in preceding receipt. Pepper, salt... Season them well inside. 3- Butter I OZ. Put into each bird. 4... Roast them before a clear bright fire for 20 minutes, basting well the whole time. 5- Good gravy ... Pour over. 6... Bread sauce ... Serve separately.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK 17o 39—PIGEONS en compote. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Butter Pigeons Salt, pepper ... Fat bacon ... Flour Mushrooms . Small onions Bunch of pars- ley, chervil, and chives Stock White wine Butter Flour Sauce out of the stewpan 3 oz. 2 slices i pinch 3 or 4 3 or 4 i pint i wine glass i oz. i pinch . A small cupful Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. Put the pigeons in this butter, taking care to turn them with a wooden spoon till they are browned all over. Sprinkle over. Take them out and keep them warm. Cut into dice and brown in the stew- pan. Sprinkle over, stirring well. Put the pigeons back into the stew- pan. Add to flavour the gravy. Pour over. Let all simmer gently till the pigeons are well done. Put the pigeons on a hot dish, and keep them warm. | Mix together in another stewpan. )> Let it thicken. Pour it boiling on I tne Pigeons and serve. 40.—STEWED PIGEONS, with macaroni. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Macaroni 3 oz. ... Boil in salt and water for | hour. 2... Butter ' ... 2 OZ. Melt in a stewpan. 3--- Pigeons 2 Brown them in the butter on both sides.POULTRY. Add to the butter, still stirring. 9... i pint ... STEWED PIGEONS, with macaroni—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over. 5... Take out the pigeons and keep them hot. 6... Flour I pinch ... Add to the butter, stirring well. 7... Small onions 3 or 4 ... ) 8... Mushrooms ... To taste (Add to the butter to flavour the 9... Bunch of herbs 10... Salt, pepper ... j gravy. 11... Good stock ... 1 pint ... Pour into the stewpan, stir well. 12... Drain the macaroni from the water, and put it into the gravy. 13... Let it simmer for 20 minutes. 14... Put in the pigeons and let them stew till tender. 15... Put the pigeons on a hot dish. 16... Remove the bunch of herbs, thicken the sauce with butter and flour, heat it up and pour it with the macaroni into the dish. Note.—Pigeons can be stewed in the same way with peas or asparagus tops instead of macaroni. 41—PIGEONS, & la cvapandine. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Pigeons 2 Cut them down the back and flatten -them out. 2... Salt, pepper... Sprinkle all over. 3- Butter I oz. Melt in a stewpan. 4.., Brown the pigeons in the butter. 5... Put them to press between two stew- pan lids with a weight on the 6... 7... 8... upper one. Eschalots Parsley Chives 3 A few sprigs 3 or 4 ... Chop them fine and add to the V butter, and stir for a minute Of ( too. StockMYRA'S cookery book. PIGEONS, a la crapandine—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 10... II... T2... 13... I4... 15... 16... I7... Salt, pepper... Butter Bread crumbs Vinegar 42.-STUF A pinch of each 1 oz. 3 oz. ... A few drops FED PI Add. Simmer till the gravy is reduced to half the quantity. Melt on the fire. Finely crumbled. Dip the pigeons in the melted butter and roll them in the bread crumbs. Broil on a gridiron over a slow fire, 5 minutes on each side. Add to the sauce. Pour the sauce into a dish, put the pigeons in and serve. GEONS, a l& crapaudine* Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 4... 5--- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 11... 12... Pigeons Livers Sausagemeat Bacon Bread crumbs Yolks of eggs Salt, pepper, ) and spice | White of egg Butter Lemon juice... 2 ... i'ib. *it>. ... k ib. ... 2 j To taste < 2 beaten up 1 oz. Small quantity Prepare as described at 41. Chop fine. do. do. Soak in milk and then drain. Beat up. Mix all the ingredients together with the yolks of eggs to form the stuffing. Fill the pigeons with the stuffing. Brush over the pigeons. Butter an earthen baking dish. Put the pigeons in and bake for £ hour. Add to the gravy from the pigeons before serving.GAME. SECTION IX.—GAME, 1.-HAUNCH OF VENISON, roasted. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Haunch of venison Warm water and vinegar Buttered paper Flour Water Strong paper Clarified dripping Butter Flour Red currant jelly ( Equal I quantities i sheet . lb. 1 lb. Choose a haunch with thick, bright fat and hang it some time. Keep it dry by wiping with a cloth, and sprinkle pepper over it. Wash the haunch and dry it well before cooking. Put this over the fat. ) Mix into a £ inch thick paste and f put over the haunch. Put over the paste and tie on firmly with string. Roast before a large fire and baste at once with dripping to prevent the paper from burning. Roast from 3 to 4 hours. Remove the papers and paste 20 minutes before serving and baste well with butter. Dredge over and baste again. Serve with good gravy in a tureen. Serve with the haunch. Note.—Doe venison will require half an hour less time than buck venison, 2.—NECK AND SHOULDER OF VENISON. Both these joints are roasted in the same way but the paste may be omitted,174 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 3.-VENISON, hashed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Venison 2 lbs. Cut the remains of cold roast venison in neat slices. 2... Put the bones and trimmings in a saucepan. 3 — Good gravy ... 1 pint ... Add to the bones, &c. 4... Stew gently for I hour, then strain. 5- Butter 2 oz. Melt in a stewpan. 6... Flour 1 dessert Dredge into the butter to thicken it. spoonful 7... When nicely browned add the strained gravy, boil and skim. 8... When cool put in the slices of meat and simmer very gently till quite hot. 9... Toasted Serve with toasted sippets round the sippets dish. 10.,, Red currant Serve with the hash. jelly 4.-VENISON, stewed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Shoulder of venison Salt Cayenne pepper Pounded mace or allspice Mutton fat ... Port wine (if liked) lib. i pi nt Bone it, and beat flat on the table. 1 I Mix together and sprinkle over the J meat to season it. j Cut some thin slices of the fat of a loin of mutton. Soak the slices of mutton fat for 2 hours. Put the slices of mutton fat on the venison, roll it up, and bind it securely with tape and string. Put the meat in a stewpan.175 GAME. VENISON, stewed—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. g... Gravy or ij pint ... ■> stock 10... Whole allspice h tea spoonful Add. 11... Black pepper 12... Port wine ... 1 wine glassful 13... Put the lid on the stewpan, and simmer very gently for about 4 hours. 14... When done remove the string and tape. 15... Strain the gravy and pour into the dish over the meat. 16... Red currant Serve with the venison. jelly 5.-VENISON COLLOPS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Venison I lb. ... Take uncooked venison that is free from fat and skin, and mince it fine. 2... 3- Pepper Salt | Add to season the meat. 4- Put the meat on a gentle fire, and stir with a fork till quite hot. 5— Simmer slowly for ten minutes. 6... Gravy or stock Add a small quantity boiling hot, if the collops are too dry. 7... Stew for 2 minutes, and serve very hot. 6.-VENISON CUTLETS. These are cut from the neck and are dressed like mutton cutlets.MYKA'S COOKERY BOOK. i76 7.-T0 TRUSS A HARE. 1. Cut off the fore legs at the first joint. 2. Raise the skin of the back and draw it over the hind legs, 3. Leave the tail whole. 4. Draw the skin over the back and slip out the fore legs. 5. Cut the skin off the neck and head. 6. Skin the ears and leave them on. 7. Clean the vent. 8. Cut the sinews under the legs and bring them forward. 9. Run a skewer through one hind leg, the body, and the other hind leg. 10. Do the same with the fore legs. ir. Lay the head rather back, and put a skewer in the mouth and through the back of the head and between the shoulders. 12. Rinse the inside, wipe it dry, and rub it with pepper and salt, 13. The hare is then ready for dressing, 8.—HARE, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. I... Fine hare 2... 3- Veal stuffing fib. !! 4... 5-" 6... 7... 8... Milk 1 pint .. 9... Butter 3 oz. 10... Flour 11... Butter 12... 13... 14... Good gravy ... Method. Prepare as in preceding receipt. Wipe quite dry. Fill the body and sew it up. Draw the fore and hind legs close to the body, and pass a long skewer through each. Tie a string round the body from one skewer to the other, and secure it above the back. Fix the head between the shoulders with another skewer, and be care- ful to leave the ears on. Place it at some distance from the fire at first. Put into the pan and baste with it at first. Baste with it afterwards continually. After it has been roasting 1^ hour, dredge over the hare. Baste well to make a froth. Roast from i£ to 2 hours. When done take it up and remove the skewers. Pour round the hare on a hot dish and serve with red currant jelly.GAME. 177 9—HARE, jugged. Order. Iriji edients. Quantities. Method. I.. 2... 3- 4... 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 11... 12... 13... 14... 15... 16... 17... Hare Flour Butter Pepper, salt, and cayenne Stock Onion pricked with cloves, herbs, and spice Lemon Catchup Port wine ... Butter Forcemeat balls Red currant 3 oz. ... i£ pint ... If liked ... 1 1 table spoonful 2 wine glasses 1 oz. ... Skin and cut in pieces, but do not wash it. Dredge over. Melt in a stewpan. Put in the hare and fry a nice brown. Add for seasoning. Put in a jar. Add. Peel, cut in half, and add. Put in the hare. Cover the jar closely to keep in the steam. Put the jar in a stewpan of boiling water, and let it boil from 3 to 4 hours according to the age of the hare. When done, put the contents of the jar into a stewpan and shake it over the fire for a few minutes. j Add. Roll in flour and add. Fry and add. Serve separately. 10.—HARE, en civet. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Hare Butter t 2 oz. Skin, dress, and cut up in small joints. Melt in a stewpan. N178 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. HARE, en civet—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 3- 4... 5- 6.: 7... 8... 9... 10... 11... 12... 13... 14... 15... 16... 17... _ 18... 19... 20... 21... 22... 23... Fat bacon ... Flour Blood of the hare Warm stock or water Small white onions Carrots Salt and pepper Garlic Thyme Bay leaf Basil Claret Mushrooms ... Butter rolled in flour ... § lb. ... 1 1J pint 5 or 6 ... 2 if liked 1 clove ... A few sprigs 1 A little ... 2 wine glasses 4 Cut in slices and brown in the butter, then take them out again. Dredge over the butter that remains, stirring all the time. Put in the pieces of hare. Turn them in the butter and let them cook a few minutes. | Add. Put in the fried slices of bacon. Add. V Add, tying the herbs in a bunch. Let all boil gently for J hour. Add, and let it boil another \ hour. Cut into two, and add towards the end. Add to thicken the gravy. Take the fat off, away from the fire. Taste to see if it wants more salt. Pour into a deep dish and serve. ll.-HARE, hashed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Remains of - cold roast . hare Cut the best parts into slices. Put the trimmings, head, and bones, into a stewpan to make the gravy.179 GAME. HARE, hashed—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 3— 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 11... 12... 13... 14... Water or stock Bunch of herbs Spice Pepper and salt Butter rolled in flour Catchup Port wine Forcemeat balls or forcemeat left from the pre- ceding day Toasted sippets Currant jelly I pint ... If liked . . . 1 oz. 1 table spoonful 2 wine glasses j Add. -Add. Stew gently 1 hour, then strain through a sieve into a stewpan. Add. >Add. Add. Put in the slices of hare and set it over the fire till very hot. Put round the dish. Serve separately. 12 — RABBIT, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... • -7- «... g... Fine large rabbit Butter Flour Milk Beaten eggs... Nutmeg Pepper and salt 2 OZ. 1 table spoonful 4 spoons- ful 2 Truss like a hare. Fill the paunch with veal stuffing. Roast before a bright clear fire § hour. Baste the rabbit well. Mix all together, and baste the rab- ► bit thickly to form a light coating over it. N 2x8o MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. RABBIT, roasted—(continued).\ Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method, 10... Butter 2 0Z. Baste the rabbit when dry with the preceding mixture, to froth it up. jr.,, Place the rabbit carefully in a dish. 12... Good brown gravy boiled up with the liver minced and a little nutmeg Pour round it. 13... Red currant Serve separately. jelly Note.—A rabbi* can be baked, and will require the same time in a good oven as for roasting. 13.—RABBITS, ci la Bourgiiignonne. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Very young rabbits 3 or 4 ... Choose them from two to three months old. 2... Dress and cut them up. 3- Butter i'ib. ::: Put into a stewpan over a brisk fire. 4... Put in the pieces of rabbit to brown. 5— Put the stewpan into a hot oven to simmer for £ hour. 6... Take out the pieces of rabbit. 7... Flour 1 or 2 tea spoonsful Add to the butter that remains in the stewpan. 8... 9... Stock White wine ... £ pint ... 1 wine glassful ^ Mix and pour in gradually, stirring j all the time. 10... Mushrooms ... 20 Cut into pieces and add. 11... Salt, pepper, and grated Sprinkle over each piece of rabbit, which you then put back in the nutmeg stewpan. 12... Let it boil an instant. 13... Take the stewpan off the fire and place the pieces of rabbit on a hot dish.Game. 181 RABBITS, a la Bowguignonne—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 14... 15... 16... 17... 18... Yolks of eggs Lemon juice Salt and pepper , - For fla- vouring | Beat up together. Add. Pour the egg, &c, gradually into the sauce in the stewpan, stirring all the time, but do not let it boil. Pour the sauce over the rabbits and serve. 14.—RABBITS, an chasseur. Ingredients. Small rabbits Salt and pepper Olive oil Quantities. 7... Salt and pepper 8... Parsley 9... Eschalot 10... Tarragon 11... Water or stock 12... Vinegar 13... Salt and pepper 14... 15... Method. Skin and draw. Dress as for boiling, but cut off the heads. Put the rabbits into a deep dish. Sprinkle over. 1 flask ... Pour over and let the rabbits soak an hour or two. Put them on the gridiron and sprinkle them during the broiling with the oil they have been soaked in. Sprinkle over the rabbits and turn them. "' I Chop fine and put them in a sauce- "' ( Pan- 1 wine glass I tea- spoonful > Pour over the herbs. ! Add. Let the sauce simmer. Pour round the broiled rabbits and serve.MYRiVS COOKERY BOOK. 15-RABBIT, en civet. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Rabbit Butter Fat bacon , Flour Stock Claret 3 oz. ilb. i dessert spoonful \ pint ... k pint ... Small onions Bunch of herbs Bay leaf Pepper(not salt because of the bacon) Skin, draw, and cut up. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. Cut in slices and brown in the butter. Add the pieces of rabbit. Let them brown on both sides. Take out the rabbit and bacon and keep them hot. Dredge gradually over the butter, stirring all the time. | Pour over gradually, still stirring. Put back the rabbit and let all boil uncovered i hour. } Add before it has done stewing. i j Serve in a deep dish with the sauce. 16.-ROAST RABBIT, French receipt Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rabbit Skin and truss like a hare. 2... Butter 2 oz. Melt in a stewpan over a gentle fire. 3- Put the liver, &c, in the butter. 4... Salt and pepper Sprinkle over. 5- Put the rabbit in and turn it till it is hot, then take it out and let it get quite cold. 6... Bacon * lb. ... Lard it with fat bacon. 7... Roast it \ hour, basting with buttel or with the following sauce receipt.GAME. 17-SAUOE TO SERVE WITH ROAST RABBIT. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Liver of the rabbit Pound it. 2... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a saucepan over a quick fire. 3- Throw in the pounded liver. 4... Salt and pepper Sprinkle over, stirring with a wooden spoon. 5- Stock or water i pint ... Add, still stirring. 6... Eschalot 1 Chop and add. 7... Vinegar 2 or 3 drops Add, still stirring. 8... Dripping from the rabbit Add. 9... Put this sauce into the dripping-pan and baste the rabbit with it during the last \ hour. 10... Serve it in a sauceboat. 18.-RABBIT, boiled. Ingredients. Quantities. Rabbit Warm water Boiling water Cold water .. Hot water Method. Skin and clean well. Wash in cold water. Pour over and let it soak 20 minutes to draw out the blood. Draw the head round to the side, and secure it with a thin skewer through it and the body. Pour over to blanch it. Dip it in when you take it out of the boiling water. Put the rabbit into a stewpan. Cover the rabbit. Let it boil very gently till tender.184 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. RABBIT, boiled-(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. IO... Onion sauce, or parsley and butter or liver sauce, made by mincing the liver very fine, and adding it to melted butter Pour over. II... An old rabbit will take quite an hour to boil. 19—RABBIT, en gibelotte. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rabbit Skin and draw directly it is killed. 2... Cut in equal sized pieces and put in a deep dish. 3 - 4- Water Vinegar 1 pint ... A few | Mix, and pour over the rabbit to j • cover it. drops 5- Let it soak for an hour, then remove the pieces and drain them. 6... Butter jib. ... Melt in a saucepan over a brisk fire. 8... Bacon \ lb. ... Cut in slices and throw into the butter to brown, then take them out. Wipe the pieces of rabbit with a clean cloth and put them into the butter in the saucepan. Q... When quite tender take them out and keep them hot on a dish. 10... Flour i or 2 tea Sprinkle into the butter to thicken it. spoonsful IT... Stock 1 large cupful 12... White wine ... 1 wine 1 Add to the flour and butter, stirring glassful | with a wooden spoon. 13... Or lemon juice or vinegar 1 spoonfulGAME. RABBIT, en gib clot te—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. ! 1 Method. 14... Put the joints of rabbit and the pieces of bacon in this sauce. 15... Mushrooms ... 23 16... Salt, pepper... 17... Small onions 12 } Add to the rest. 1 18... Bunch of sweet herbs jg... Leave uncovered on a brisk fire for about f hour. 20... Serve the rabbit in a deep dish with the bacon, onions, and mushrooms round it. 21... Strain the sauce and pour it over. 22.,. Fried sippets Place round the dish and serve very hot. 20.—RABBIT^ a la Provencale. Order. Ingredients. j Quantities. Method. I... Rabbit I Cut in joints. 2... Bacon | lb. ... Lard the joints. 3- Veal A few Put in a stewpan. slices 4... Put the rabbit on the veal. Sherry 1 wine glass Pour over. 6... Olive oil 2 table spoonsful Add. 7... Salt and pepper Add. 8... Garlic 3 cloves Add if liked. 9... Put on the cover and stew very gently. 10... Serve with the strained gravy poured over.i86 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 21—RABBITS, with herbs. Orde Ingredients. Quantities, Rabbits Mushrooms .. Eschalots Parsley Butter Flour White wine .. Salt, pepper, and nutmeg Sweet herbs .. Gravy or stock Lemon juice Butter 2 young ones 12 3 or 4 •■ A few sprigs 3 oz. i table spoonful i wine glassful To taste A bunch A little i lemon I oz. Method. Divide in joints. Chop fine, and mix. Melt in a stewpan, and put in the chopped herbs, &c. Put in the rabbit. Sprinkle over when the meat is firm. Add. Add. Add. Simmer for 20 minutes. Add. Add. Add. Mix and stir well together. Put the joints of rabbit on a dish. Take out the bunch of herbs, and pour the sauce over the meat. Serve verv hot. 22.—-RABBIT, stewed with vegetables. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method, I... 2... 3- 4... 6... 7... Rabbit Stock Salt, pepper, spice Carrots Turnips Celery Onions i large or 2 small 2 3 sticks ... 4 Divide in joints, and put them in ; stewpan. Add enough to float them. Add to taste. | Cut in small pieces and add.GAME. 187 RABBIT, staved with vegetables—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 8... Sweet herbs... A bunch Add and let the whole simmer gently until tender. 9... Take out the vegetables and press them through a sieve. 10... Moisten with the strained liquor they were cooked in. 11... ... Serve the vegetables under or around the rabbit. 23—RABBIT; curried. Dress in the same way as curried fowl. 24.-TO TRUSS A PHEASANT. 1. Pick and draw. 2. Wipe the inside with a damp cloth. 3. Cut off the head, leaving sufficient skin on the neck to skewer back. 4. Bring the legs close to the breast, between it and the side bones. 5. Pass a skewer through the pinions and the thick part of the thighs. 25—PHEASANT, roasted. Order. Ingredients. j Quantities. Method. I... Pheasant Truss as in preceding receipt. 2... Roast before a clear quick fire. 3- Butter 2 OZ. Baste frequently. 4... Salt Sprinkle over. 5-- Flour Dredge over lightly, to froth the bird. 6... Roast | hour to 1 hour, according to size. 7... Good brown Pour over and serve separately. gravy 8... Bread sauce... Serve separately. Note.—It improves the pheasant if one tablespoonful of Madeira or Marsala be put in the dripping-pan to baste the bird. French cooks put fried bread in the pan, and serve it under the bird.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 188 26.-SALMIS OF PHEASANT. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cold roast Cut in joints and take off the skin. pheasant ... 2... Put the skin, bones, and any pieces over in a stewpan. 3... Stock | pint ... Add. 4... Let it boil | hour, then strain. 5- Flour and Melt in a stewpan till brown. butter 6... Sherry 1 glassful Add. 7... Prepared Add. gravy 8... Salt, pepper... To taste Add. g... Lemon juice... I lemon Add. 10... When quite hot put in the joints of game, but do not let them boil. 11... Serve with the sauce poured over. 12... Fried sippets Use to garnish the dish. NoTE.- Cold par'.ridge, grcuse, blackccck, &c, can be warmed up in the same way. 27.-TO TRUSS A PARTRIDGE. 1. Hang it several days. 2. Pluck, draw, and wipe it inside and out. 3. Cut off the head, leaving sufficient skin on the neck to skewer back. 4. Bring the legs close to the breast between it and the side bones. 5. Pass a skewer through the pinions and the thick part of the thighs. 6. The head may be left on, brought round, and fixed on the point of the skewer, but it is generally cut off. 28.—PARTRIDGE, roasted. Crder. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Partridge Dress as in preceding receipt. 2... Fat bacon ... Cut into strips and lard the partridge. Or slices of Roll round the bird. bacon189 OA ME. PARTRIDGE, roasted—[continued). Ingredients. Quantities Vine leaves ... Butter Sait !" Sauce If liked . Method. When procurable wrap them round the bacon, and tie up with a string. Put in the dripping-pan. If you have no vine leaves baste with the dripping from the bird. Roast 20 minutes. Sprinkle over before it has done roasting. Place the bird on a dry dish and serve. Serve separately. 29-PARTRIDGES, broiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Partridges ... 2 Pick and draw. 2... Divide each through the back and breast. 3- Wipe the insides. 4... Pepper, salt, and a little cayenne Season the birds well. 5... Broil them over a clear bright fire. 6... Butter I oz. Rub over them when done. 7... Brown gravy Serve with them. 30.—PARTRIDGES, aux choux. Order Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- Old partridges Butter Flour Stock J lb. ... 1 table spoonful \ pint ... Dress and truss. Melt in a stewpan over a quick fire. Sprinkle over the butter, stirring all the time. Put in the partridges. Add.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. PARTRIDGES, mix chonx—(continued). Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Fat bacon Sausage meat Onions pricked with i clove Salt and pepper Bay leaf Bunch of chervil, chives, and parsley Carrots Cabbage Boiling wa' Water Salt Stock or wa i slice 4 lb. i pinch . Cut into dice and add. Add; a few slices of Bologna sausage may also be added. Let all simmer i% to 2 hours, and in the meantime prepare the cabbage in the following manner. Put in a pan. Pour over to wash and whiten it. Let it soak, then press all the water out. Put the cabbage in a saucepan. Pour over till the cabbage swims. Sprinkle over a good quanity. Boil f hour, then take it out and strain. Cut it in two and put it to finish cook- ing on the partridges. Pour into the stewpan if there is not enough sauce. Let all simmer 2 hours, if the part- ridges are old birds. Prick the birds with a fork to see if they are done enough. Serve the partridges on the cabbage. 31.-PARTRIDGE3, braised. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Partridges ... Fat bacon ... 2 3 or 4 slices Truss them with their legs turned in. Lard the partridges with the bacon.GAME. 191 PARTRIDGES, braised— {continned). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. 3" Bacon ... c 1 Several slices 4... Carrots ... 2 or more 5— Onions 2 or more 6... Bunch of sweet herbs 7... Salt, pepper 8... Stock 1 large cupful 9... White wine ... 1 wine glassful 10... 11... 12.,, Lemon juice J lemon.,, Method. Line a stewpan, and place the partridges on the bacon, f Cut into dice, and put round the ( partridges, as many as liked. l Add. Pour over the whole. Simmer gently for 1 hour, then take out the birds, and put them on a hot dish. Skim, boil up, and strain the sauce. Add to the sauce, before pouring it over the birds. Note—Braised partridges can be served with any puree of vegetables. 32.—PARTRIDGES, au chasseur. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Partridges ... 4 small ones Dress and cut in two lengthways. 2... Flatten the pieces gently. 3- Butter t'ik Melt in a stewpan over a slow £re. 4... Put in the partridges. 5- Salt and pepper Sprinkle over. 6... Bread crumbs 3 oz. ... Put in a dish. 7... Take the partridges out of the pan, dip them in the bread crumbs, then put them at once on a grid- iron over a good fire. Melt in a saucepan to make a maitve d^lwtel sauce. - 8... Butter 3 oz. 9... Eschalots 2 or 3 ... .... ) Chop fine and sprinkle over the 10... Parsley - f butter.irjz MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. PARTRIDGES, an chasseur—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. II... Salt and pepper 12... Lemon juice... A few | Add. drops 13... Place the partridges on a hot dish, pour the sauce over and serve. 33.-RAGOUT OP PARTRIDGES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Partridges Stock Butter Mushrooms Flour Butter Pepper Lemon juice.. Capers Any cold remains 1 pint 1 oz. 1 oz. 1 pinch ... I lemon... 1 spoonful Cut in small pieces or joints. Put the bodies and bones left over in a saucepan. Add to the bones. Boil gently one hour, then strain. Melt in a stewpan. Throw into the butter to brown, then take them out, and put them aside. Put the pieces of partridge in the stewpan to brown. Sprinkle over, and stir well. Add the stock and mushrooms. I Add, stirring well. Arrange the meat round the dish, and pour the sauce and mush- rooms into the middle; serve very hot. 34.—SOUFFLE OF PARTRIDGES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Partridges ... Any cold Remove all the meat from the bones. remains 2... Take off the skin, and pound the meat with the livers in a mortar.GAME. 0 SOUFFLE OF PARTRIDGES—(continued). Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Brown stock Brown glaze Butter Nutmeg Yolks of eggs Whites of eggs | pint ... Small quantity Small piece A pinch 4 Warm the pounded meat in this, and then strain it. Break the bodies, and boil them down with all the bones and skin from the birds. Strain the gravy, moisten some roux with it, and reduce it. Add, and continue reducing until it is half the consistence of glaze, Put in the pounced meat, | Add. Beat up and add gradually. Beat to a froth and add; stir well, Pour into a paper souffle case. Put in the oven, and serve as soon as it rises. 35.—PTARMIGAN, BLACKCOCK. These are dressed and served like partridges or pheasants. 36.-GROUSE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Grouse 2... Let them hang some time, then pluck and draw them. 2... Wipe them well but do not wash them, and truss them without the heads. 3- Butter 2 OZ. Melt to baste the birds. 4... Roast before a bright fire and baste well. 5- Slices of bread 2 Toast and butter them, and put them 6... in the dripping pan to soak. Serve the birds on the toast with gravy and bread sauce.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 194 37—LANDRAIL. These birds are dressed in the same way as grouse and served on fried breadcrumbs, with brown gravy in a tureen. Bread-sauce can also be Eerved with them. 38-TO TRUSS QUAILS. i. Pluck, singe, and draw. g. Cut off the wings at the first pinion, leaving the feet. 3. Pass a skewer through the pinions and the wings. 39.—QUAILS, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Quails 2 Pluck, draw, and truss. 2... Fat Bacon ... i ib. ... Cut into thin slices, and cover the breasts of the birds. Vine leaves ... Tie on over the bacon. 4... Roast them 12 or 15 minutes before a very brisk fire. 5- Salt, pepper... Sprinke over. 6... Butter 2 oz. Baste well. 7... Fried bread ... Serve under the birds. 8... Take the fat off the dripping, and pour over the bread. 9... Slicedlemon... Serve separately or round the dish 40.-QUAILS, broiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Quails 2 Pluck, singe, and draw. 2... Cut open down the back. 3- Olive oil i table 4... Bay leaf spoonful 1 | Put at the bottom of a stewpan. 5- Salt and pepper 6... Put the quails on the top. 7... Fat Bacon ... Put a thin slice over the quails.GAME. 0 2 QUAILS, broiled—(continued). Order, j Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 8... g... 10... Ii... Bread crumbs Stock 3 oz. ... \ pint ... Dip the quails in when they are three parts cooked. Put the quails on the gridiron over a good fire. Pour into the stewpan the quails were cooked in. Stir, take the fat off, and serve with the quails. 41.—QUAILS, flw chausseur. Crder. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... g... 10... 11... 12... Quails Butter Sweet herbs... Salt and pepper Flour White wine ... Stock 2 2 OZ. A pinch... 1 wine glassful do. Pluck, draw, and truss. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. Chop fine and add. Put the quails in. Sprinkle over. Keep turning the quails in the butter till they are done. Take out the birds and keep them warm. Sprinkle over the butter that remains in the stewpan, stirring well, | Pour in, still stirring. Let the sauce thicken without boiling. Pour it over the quails and serve. 42—LARKS, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Larks 6 Some amateurs prefer them not drawn. We prefer them drawn. Truss by drawing the feet under the beak and crossing them.196 LARKS, roasted—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method, 2... Fat bacon Put a slice on each breast. 3- Put a skewer through the 6 birds and roast in front of the fire. 4... Roast 10 minutes. Fried bread ... 6 slices ... Serve under the larks and pour the gravy over. 43.—LARKS, a la minute. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Larks 2... Butter 3 ' 4. 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 11... Salt, pepper. Eschalots Parsley Mushrooms . Flour White wine . Fried bread . 6... 2 oz. 2... 1 sprig . 10 A pinch. ^ wine- glass 6 slices . Pluck and draw. Melt in a stewpan. Put the larks in to brown. Sprinkle over. Take out the larks when they are brown all over. ( Chop fine and throw into the butter f that remains in the pan. Sprinkle over the mushrooms when they are done. Add gradually, stirring. Put back the larks in the pan. Put on a dish ; place the larks on them; pour the sauce over and serve. 44.—ORTOLANS, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Ortolans Truss like larks, but do not draw them. 2... Put a long skewer through them all. 3- Salt and pepper Sprinkle over. 4... Roast them 10 minutes before a good fire. 5--- Serve without sauce.GAME. 197 45.-TO TRUSS SNIPE, WOODCOCKS, AND GOLDEN PLOVERS. 1. Pluck and wipe the birds very clean inside. 2. Truss the legs quite close to the body, the feet pressing upon the thighs. 3. Skin the head and neck. 4. Bring the beak round under the wing. 46.-SNIPE OR WOODCOCK, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Snipe or 3 Pluck and truss. woodcocks 2... Fat bacon Tie a thin layer over the birds, run a bird-spit through them and roast before the fire. 3- Toast and Put a slice under the birds to catch butter the dripping. 4... Butter 2 oz. Baste them continually, and roast them from 20 to 25 minutes. 5- Serve on the toast. 6... Slices of lemon Serve with them. 47.-SALMIS OP SNIPE OR WOODCOCK. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Remains of Cut up. snipe or woodcock 2... Take off the skin. 3•• Place the pieces, except the body, in a saucepan. 4... Stock A few Pour over. spoonsful 5--- Warm over a slow fire, but do net let it boil. 6... Bodies of the Pound, chop, and mix in a basin. birds and gibletsMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. SALMIS OF SNIPE OR WOODCOCK—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities Method. Eschalot Lemon peel ... Salt and pepper Stock, white wine or Marsala Fried bread .., Lemon sliced i slice ... i wine glassful J- Chop and add. Add. Put this mixture into another stew- pan. Pour over (if liked), mixing well with a wooden spoon, and adding gradually. Let it boil uncovered for a \ hour till the sauce is reduced one-half. Strain the sauce and keep it warm. Serve under the birds. Pour the sauce over and serve. Serve separately. 4S.-TO TRUSS WILD DUCK. 1. Pluck and draw it carefully. 2. Cut off the head, leaving sufficient skin on the neck to skewer back. 3. Leave the feet on. 4. Twist the legs at the knuckle and bring the claws up on each side of the breast, or let them stick out at the back. 49.-WILD DUCK, roasted. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... Wild ducks ... Hot water ... Onion Salt 2 i pint ... 1 1 pinch... Pluck and prepare as in preceding receipt. Put to roast before a quick fire. j- Add to the hot water. When the birds have been down 5 or 6 minutes baste them with the hot water for a few minutes to remove the fishy taste.GAME. 199 WILD DUCK, roasted—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 7... 8... 9... 10... Butter Flour Cut lemon ... 3 oz. ... Remove the pan. Baste well while roasting. Dredge over a few minutes before serving, then baste and froth. Serve with the ducks, and good brown gravy also. 50.-TO CARVE WILD DUCK. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3... 4... 5- 6... Salt Cayenne pepper Lemon juice... Butter Small piece Cut the breast in neat small slices, but leave them on the bird. | Sprinkle over the cut breasts Squeeze all over the bird. Put on the bird to melt. Let the butter and lemon juice run into the gravy, mix them in the dish and pour over the bird several times. 51.-SALMIS OP WILD DUCK. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. , I... 2... 3- Remains of wild duck Butter 2 OZ. Divide in nice joints. Melt in a saucepan. Brown the pieces of meat in the butter.200 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. SALMIS OF WILD DUCK—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. A... Stock or gravy i large from ducks cupful D Claret 2 wine- glasses ful 6... Eschalot ... i... ... 7... Clove i... 8... Pepper A pinch... g... Meat glaze ... Small piece 10... Olive oil i dessert spoon- ful ii... Lemon juice... i lemon... 12... Raspings of i or more bread spoonsful 13- Method. Add and let the whole stew gently. | Add. J Squeeze ever. | Mix with the sauce. Serve the duck with the sauce poured over it, and put sippets of toast round the dish. 52.-RAGOUT OF WILD DUCK. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 1... Cold wild I Cut in joints and lay aside. duck 2... Put the bones, skin, and trimmings f pint ... in a stevvpan. 3". Stock ) Add to the meat in the stewpan and 4... Eschalots 2 [ simmer for | hour, then strain. 5- Butter 1 oz. Melt in a stewpan. 6... Flour 1 tea- spoonful Dredge into the butter. 7... Add the sauce, boil, and strain. 8... Port or claret 1 wine- 9... Lemon juice... glassful £ lemon 1 Add to the sauce. 10... Cayenne 1 pinch ... 11... Put in the pieces of duck and let them get quite hot, but not boil. 53.-TEAL, WIDGEON. These are dressed and served like Wild Duck,201 VEGETABLES. SECTION X.—VEGETABLES. >.«^ 1-ASPARAGUS, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4- 5- 6... 7- 8... g... Note. Berve it Asparagus ... Water Salt —French cooks s:r on toast. i handful ve melted butt 2.-ART Scrape lightly with a knife to clean them. Tie them up in little bundles of 10 or 12 with string. Make them of equal size by cutting off the white tops* Boil in a saucepan. Throw it in the water. When the water boils put in the asparagus. Let them boil 15 minutes. Take them out of the water and strain them. Take off the string and place them on a warm vegetable dish. er with asparagus. English cooks generally ICHOKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- Artichokes ... Boiling water Take off the hard leaves at the bottom. Cut the points of the leaves with scissors to trim them. Cut the stalk close to the artichoke. Put the vegetables at the bottom of a saucepan, head downwards, pressed close to one another. Pour over till all are covered.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 202 ARTICHOKES—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. c D... 7... 8... 9... 10... Salt and pepper Bunch of parsley, chervil and chives Butter 2 02. l !>Add. J Boil over a quick fire. They are sufficiently done when leaf can be easily broken off. Note.—French cooks serve melted butter with artichokes. 3.—JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. These are boiled in the same way as potatoes, and served with while sauce poured over them. 4,-BROCCOLI, boiled. See the receipts for cauliflower. 5.-BRUSSELS SPROUTS, sautis. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I .. Brussels sprouts Cut off the stalks and the first row of leaves. 2... Put them in a saucepan. 3- Salt Sprinkle over. 4... Boiling water Pour over till all are covered. 5- Let them boil 15 minutes or till tender. 6... Drain in a cullender and wipe in a clean cloth. 7... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a stewpan. 8... Salt andpepper Sprinkle over. 9... Throw in the sprouts and let them brown in the butter,VEGETABLES. 203 BRUSSELS SPROUTS, smites—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. IO .. Stock or cream I wine Pour over gradually, stirring well. glass II... Reduce the sauce and thicken. 12 .. Pour over the sprouts and serve at once. 6.—BRUSSELS SPROUTS, boiled. See first part of preceding receipt. 7-BROAD BEANS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Broad beans... Choose them quite young and shell them. 2... Salt and water Boil in a saucepan. 3 — When the water boils, throw in the beans and boil them fast for 15 minutes or till tender. 4... Parsley and Serve separately. butter 8.—CABBAGE, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cabbage I Pick off the dead leaves and cut the stalk quite close. If large, divide into quarters. 2... Cold water ... Pour over and wash well. 3- Boiling water 2 quarts 1 1 4... Salt 1 table spoon J> Mix in a saucepan. 5... Soda Very small piece : 6... When the water boils fast, put in the cabbage. 7... Keep it uncovered and boil quickly till tender. 8... Drain through a cullender and serve on a hot dish.204 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, 9.—CABBAGE, stuffed. Crder. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... White hearted i large Take off the large leaves and the cabbage one stalk. 2... Put it into a pan. 3- Boiling water Pour over and let it soak \ hour. 4... Clean and drain well. 5- Open the leaves and remove the heart. 6... Forcemeat 1 lb. Fill the hollow and place between well seasoned each leaf. 7... Slices of fat Put over the forcemeat. bacon 8... Cabbage leaf .a. ... Put over the bacon. 9... Tie it up neatly with tape. 10... Stock 1 pint ... Put into a stewpan with the prepared cabbage. 11... Thyme and bay-leaf | Add. 12... Carrots 2 13... ... Let all stew gently 2 hours. 14... When the cabbage is done, untie it and serve with the sauce thickened with butter and flour. 10.—CAEROTS; ct la maitre d'hotel. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Carrots Scrape and clean. 2... Cut into round slices. 3-«- Fresh butter... 2 02. Melt in a stewpan over a slow Are. 4... Put in the carrots. 5... 6... Salt andpeppei Flour | Dredge over. 7... Chopped herbs Add. 8... Stock or water A few Pour over at once to prevent the spoonsful carrots from browning. 9... Stir gently with the wooden spoon. 10... As soon as the carrots are tender, take the stewpan off the fire*VEGETABLES. 205 CARROTS, a la maitye d'hotel—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. jr... Put the carrots on a hot dish. 12... Yolks of eggs i or 2 ... Beat up with a few drops of wate*\ 13... Add to the sauce, pour over the carrots and serve. ll.-CARROTS, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Young carrots Need only be washed. Old ones should be scraped. 2... Hot water ... Put into a stewpan. 3- Salt £ spoonful Add. 4... Put in the carrots. 5- Let them boil fast for 20 minutes. 6... Rub with a clean cloth to take off the skins. 7... Put them into a dish and serve. 12.—CAULIFLOWERS, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cauliflower ... Pick off first row of leaves and cut the stalk clcse. 2... Salt and water Pour over the cauliflower, and let it soak head downwards for an hour. 3- Drain in a cullender. 4... Water Boil in a saucepan. 5- Put in the cauliflower when the water is boiling fast. 6... Keep it uncovered, and boil 15 minutes, or till tender. 7... Skim the water. 8... Drain and serve with white sauce.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. ao6 13—CAULIFLOWERS, French way. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I.. 2.. 3- 4- 5- 6.. 7- Cauliflower ... Cold water and vinegar Boiling water Salt Flour and water Melted butter A few drops Take out the flower in little bunches, throwing away the stalk. Mix in a pan. Throw the cauliflower as you pick and clean it into the pan. Drain and put in a saucepan. Pour over till all is covered. Sprinkle over. Stir up together, and throw over the cauliflower to keep it white. Boil 15 minutes or till tender, then drain. Pour over the cauliflower on a dish. 14-CAULIFLOWER-CHEESE, Ingredients. Flower of boiled cauli- flower Butter Salt, pepper... Grated Par- mesan cheese Bread crumbs Butter Quantities. 2 OZ. 3 oz. 2 OZ. 2 OZ. Method. Throw away the stalk and break the flower in small pieces. Melt in a pie-dish. Sprinkle over. Put a thick layer on the butter. Put the flower of the vegetable on the cheese in a layer. Put another layer of cheese. Put a layer on the cheese. Melt in a saucepan, and pour over the whole. Bake in a hot oven till brown. Serve hot.-1 VEGETABLES. 207 15.—CELERY, an jus. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Celery Several Clean well and cut into equal lengths sticks of 2 to 3 inches. 2... Cut each slice lengthways and throw into a deep dish. 3- Boiling salt and water ... ... Pour over till all is covered. 4... Let it soak a few minutes to whiten it, then drain through a cullender. 5... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a stewpan. 0.... Flour ... i dessert Sprinkle over. spoonful 7... Stock ... \ pint Pour over gradually stirring all the time. 8... Salt and pepper Add. 9... Put the celery into this sauce. Let it simmer uncovered till the sauce is much diminished. 10... Stock, butter, and flour mixed to- gether Add towards the end to bind and thicken the sauce. II.., Serve all together in a deep dish. 16.—CELERY, boiled. Dress like sea-kale, and serve on toast, with white sauce poured over it. Celery can also be stewed in gravy. 17.—CUCUMBERS, stuffed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cucumbers ... Small Peel them, and cut off one end. ones 2... Take out the inside with a knife. 3- Boiling water Throw them in for a few minutes to blanch. 4... Put them in cold water and drain.208 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. G... Drain and serve. CUCUMBERS, stuffed—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 11... 12... Forcemeat ... Bacon Bacon Good gravy ... i lb. ... 1 large cupful Have ready a good well seasoned forcemeat. Fill the cucumbers, put on the ends that were cut off, and fasten them on with little wooden skewers. Put a thin slice of bacon round each cucumber, and tie it on with string. Line the stewpan with thin slices. Put in the cucumbers. Pour over and stew gently 20 minutes. Take out the cucumbers, and remove the bacon, strings, and skewers. Skim and strain the sauce. 13... 14... 15... 16... Butter Flour Glaze Lemon juice... I oz. 1 tea spoonful J oz. ... 1 tea spoonful 1 Mix together, and add to the sauce f on the fire. Add. Add to the sauce, stir well, and when very hot pour over the cucumbers. 18.—FRENCH OR KIDNEY BEANS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... French beans Cut off the tops and stalks, and the stringy part from each side. 2... Cut them into long strips. 3- Salt & water Boil in a saucepan. 4... When the water boils throw in the beans. 5-~ Leave them to boil fast uncovered 15 minutes, or till they are tender.VEGETABLES. 19—FRENCH BEANS, sautes. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- French beans Butter Salt, pepper... Lemon juice 2 OZ. Prepare according to preceding re- ceipt. Melt in saucepan over a slow fire. Sprinkle over, stirring with a wooden spoon. Put in the prapared beans, and stir them in the butter until very hot. Squeeze over before serving. 20.-TO KEEP FRENCH BEANS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3 •• French beans Prepare according to receipt No. 18. Drain, spread on a cloth, and dry in the shade. When dry, tie them up in paper bags, and soak 12 hours in cold water before using. 21—FRENCH BEANS, & la pouUHe. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... French beans iib. ... Choose them very young and tender, and prepare as usual. 2... Wash them in cold water. 3- Water ... 3 pints ... Boil in a saucepan. 4- Salt i spoonful Add. 5- When the water boils throw in the beans and let them boil quickly, uncovered to keep them green. 6... Butter Flour When done drain carefully. 7- 8... I oz. i tea 1 Work together and melt in a stew- spoonful 1 pan, stirring for 3 minutes.2IO MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. FRENCH BEANS, a la pouhtte—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. g... Liquor i large Pour on a cupful of the liquor the cupful beans were boiled in, add salt. IO... Stir on the fire for 10 minutes. ii... Yolks of eggs 2 Beat and add to the sauce, but do not let it boil. 12... Butter i c«. ... Melt and add gradually. 13... Parsley \ spoonful Chop fine and add. 14... Put in the beans, stir well till thoroughly hot and serve. 22.—FRENCH BEANS, a la maitre d'hoteh Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I.,. 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 11... French beans Butter Chopped parsley Pepper and salt Vinegar I OZ. i spoonfu' A few- drops Prepare as in previous receipt as far as No. 5. Take care that the beans do not get cold; drain at once and put in a stewpan. | Mix together and melt in the stew- J> pan with the beans, stirring well J for a short time. Add if liked. Serve quickly on a hot dish. 23—FRENCH BEANS, a Vetuvee. Order. Ingredients, Quantities. Method. I... 2... Beans Choose large, long, flat beans, trim and cut them slanting through the bean in thin slices. Put them in a stewpan,VEGETABLES. 211 FRENCH BEANS, a Vetuvee—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 3- Butter I OZ. Melt and add. 4... Onion I Chop and add. 5- Pepper and salt Add. 6... Put on the cover, and stew gently, stirring from time to time. Beans dressed in this way have an excellent flavour, but are not a good colour. 24.—GREEN PEAS, boiled. OrJer. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Peas I peck ... Shell. 2... Water 3- Salt i tea- | Boil in a saucepan. spoonful 4... Put in the peas. 5- Mint 2 sprigs... Add. 6... Boil \ hour with the saucepan well covered. 7 ■ Drain. 8.. Serve up hot. Note.—Some people put butter into th? peas before serving, but it does not improve their appearance. 25.—GREEN PEAS, French way. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Green peas ... i pint ..J Put into a saucepan. 2... Cold water ... Pour Gver them 3- Salt, pepper... 4- Small onions 3or4 ... 5- Bunch of par- sley, chervil, and chives 6... Boil | hour, till the water is nearly boiled away. p 22i2 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. GREEN PEAS, French way—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 7- ... Drain the peas and remove the herbs. 8... Put them back in the saucepan. ] 9- Butter Size of an IO... Fiour egg 1 tea- V Mix together into balls. spoonful ) Throw them into the peas and stir quickly with a wooden spoon. ii... 12... Powdered sugar If liked ... Add 1 teaspoonful. 13- Yolks of eggs 2 14... Milk or water 1 table spoonful 1 Beat up in a bowl. 15... Salt or pow- dered sugar 1 pinch ... 16... Take the saucepan off the fire. 17... Mix the egg, &c, into the pea3, stirring quickly. 18... Serve at once on a hot dish. 26—GREEN PEAS, a la Frangalse. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I.., Lettuce Wash and clean it, tear it apart, and put in a stewpan. 2... Butter 3 0Z. Add. 3- Peas 1 pint ... Add. Small onions A few ... Add if liked. 5- Salt A pinch... Add. 6... Put on the cover and let the peas stew gently for | hour. 7... Sugar 1 oz. Add when the peas are tender. 8... Butter & flour 1 oz. Mix together and add. 9... Take the stewpan off the fire and stir well. 10... 1 If the sauce is too thick add a little water. Note.—If preserved peas are used they should be first washed in boiling water; old peas if partly boiled first and then stewed in this, or the following manner, become tender and palatable.VEGETABLES, 2x3 27. -GREEN PEAS, with bacon. der. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Bacon ... i ib. ... Cut in small thin slices. 2... Butter I oz. Melt in a stewpan. Put in the slices of bacon. 4... Flour \ oz. Sprinkle over and stir in well. 5- Water 4 Pint Add if the peas are dry. 6... Peas i pint ... Add ; if these have been washed, the water adhering to them will be enough at first. 7... Onion 1 Add if liked. 8... 9... Sweet herbs... 1 bunch... Add. Put on the cover and stew gently ; if the peas are too dry, add a little water or stock. [0... Take out the onion and herbs before serving. 28.—STEWED PEAS, with tinned meat. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3--- 4... Peas Sweet herbs... Meat i pint ... 1 bunch... Stew the peas as in Recipe No. 26, Add to the lettuce and onions. Divide in small pieces, and add with the jelly when the peas are nearly done. When quite hot remove the herbs and onions, and serve altogether in a deep dish. 29.—PUREE OF GREEN PEAS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... Green peas ... Boiling water Leeks Parsley 2 pints ... 2 or 3 ... A few sprigs Put in a saucepan. Pour over them till they are covered. Tie them together and add. Add.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 214 PUREE OF GREEN PEAS—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5- Salt Add. o... When the peas are done, remove the leeks and parsley, and mash the peas. 7- Put them in a stewpan. 8... Butter I oz. Add. g... Pepper and salt Add. IO... Stoek 1 pint ... Add. ii... Mix very smooth and serve. 30—PUREE OF DRIED PEAS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Peas I pint ... Wash them and put them in a sauce- pan. 2... Cold water ... ... Pour over them till covered. 3 — Carrot I Add when the water begins to boil. 4... Onions Turnip 2 j Add and boil 4 hours. 5- I 6... Bacon or lard A little of either added to the water will make the peas more tender. 7... Salt Add when the peas are partly cooked. 8... When done let the peas remain a minute or two, then take them out with a slice. 9... Keep the liquor to make soup. 10... Mash the peas. 11... Flour or 2 tea Mix smooth with a little of the liquor breadcrumbs spoonfuls and add to the peas. 12... Put the puree in a stewpan. 13... Butter I oz. Add. 14... Pepper, salt, and sugar Add. 15... Mix well and serve very hot.VEGETABLES. 15... Sprinkle over. Flour 1 pinch ... 31.-HARICOT BEANS, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Haricot beans I pint ... —, . Soak in water 24 hours before using. 2... T^)rain and nut intr» o c^nrpnar: Ulctill ci 11U L) U L 111 lU <X SaUtCpall. yv aim vv cttci Pour over till all arc covered. 4... 1 1 5- Onion pricked I with 1 clove 6... Bunch of herbs j^Add, 7... Salt 8... Let them simmer 2 hourg or till tender. 9... Drain. 10... Salt, peeper... Sprinkle over. 11... Butter 2 oz. Put into a stewpan. 12... Put in the beans and stir them till quite hot. 13... Serve with parsley and butter if liked. 32.—LENTILS, a let maitre d'hotcl. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Lentils 1 pint ... Put in a large pan. 2... Cold water ... Pour over till they are covered. 3~ Salt 1 pinch ... Add. 4... Let them soak for 24 hours. 5- Boil quickly in the water they have been soaking in. 6... Salt 1 spoonful 7... Carrots 2 or 3 ... 8... Onions 1 or 2 ... j A few Add when the lentils are about hal"- y cooked. 9... Parsley- 10... 11... Chives Chervil J sprigs ) tied to- ( gather 12... When tender drain and keep them hot. 13... Duller 3 oz. ... Melt in a stew-pan. 14... Add the lentils and stir or shake well.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 2l6 LENTILS, a la maitre d'hfitel—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 16... Parsley 17... Chives i Chop fine and add. ) 18... Chervil 19.,, Pepper & salt Sprinkle over. 20... Stock J pint ... Add gradually, stirring well; when the lentils are tender take them off the fire, but keep them hot in the pan. 21... Yolks of eggs I0r2 ... ] Beat up together in a basin and add Water i table spoonful I gradually to the lentils, if liked, j but this sauce may be dispensed 23... Salt a pinch ... j with. 24... Serve very hot. 33.- PUREE OF LENTILS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Lentils I pint ... Pick and wash them well. 2... Cold water ... Pour over the lentils in the saucepan. 3 — Boil for four hours, and add hot water as required to keep the saucepan fulJ. 4... Salt 1 spoonful Add when half-boiled. 5- When done let the saucepan stand a minute, then drain off the water. 6... Rub the lentils through a sieve. 7... Butter or beei dripping 2 oz. Melt in a stewpan. 8... Pepper & salt Add. g... Put in the lentils and stir well. 10.., Fried bread .,. Serve very hot with sippets of bread fried in butter or dripping. 34.—LEEKS. These are boiled and served on toast with white sauce poured over them, like sca-kale. The water in which they are boiled must be changed two cr thiee times.VEGETABLES. 217 35.—MUSHROOMS, stewed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Mushrooms .., I pint ... Skin, take off the stalks, and put them into a dish. 2... Boiling salt and water Pour over to whiten them. 3- Drain through a cullender. 4.,, Butter 2 oz. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. Put in the mushrooms. Salt Z Sprinkle over. 7- Cream 2 table spoonsful When ready to dish up, stir in, but do not let it boil after. Note,—Mushrooms are very nice sprinkled with pepper, rubbed with butter and done in the Dutch-oven. 36—MUSHROOMS, broiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2.. 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... Mushrooms ... Olive oil Pepper, salt... Vinegar Parsley Chives 1 pint ... 3 table spoonsful 2 or 3 drops Choose them large and skin them. I Mix, and let the mushrooms soak in f it one hour. Broil on the gridiron : first on one side, then on the other, Put them on a dish. Mix with the oil. | Chop and add if liked. Pour over the mushrooms and serve. 37. -MUSHROOMS, sautes. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2 .. 3- 4... 5- Mushrooms ... Water Vinegar Butter 1 pint ... £ pint ... A little ... 2 oz. Skin them, and cut off the sta'ks. | Mix and wash the mushrooms. Put them to drain. Melt in a stewpan.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. Melt in a stewpan on a slow fire. 3--- Butter 2 oz. MUSHROOMS, sautes—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 6... Salt, pepper... Add. 7... Sweet herbi... A few Chop fine and add. sprigs 8... Put in the muphrooms, and shake them frequently for 15 minutes or till done. 38.—MUSHROOMS, on toast. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. r... Mushrooms ... I pint ... Cut in half if large, and skin them. 2... Hot water ... Throw them in to blanch them. 3- Cold water ... Throw them in to cool, then wipe dry. 4... Butter 2 oz. Melt in a stewpan. Put in the mushrooms. 6... Flour A pinch... Sprinkle in. 7... Pepper, salt... Add. 8... Parsley A bunch Add. 9... Stock Add a little, and leave the mush- rooms in 15 minutes. 10... Lemon juice... 1 lemon... Add. 11... Slices 01 bread Cut in rounds \ inch thick. 12... Butter 2 oz. Melt, and fry the bread on both sides. 13... Put the fried bread on a dish. 14... Remove the parsley from the mush- rooms. 15... Pour the mushrooms with their sauce on to the bread. iG... Serve very hot. 39.-ONIONS, glads. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Onions 1J lb. ... Choose them of equal size. 2... Peel them without injuring the tops and stalks.VEGETABLES. 219 ONIONS, glaces— (con tinned). Ingredients. Salt Stock Salt or : Butter Stock Quantities. I spoonful If liked . I oz. A few spoonsful Sprinkle in. Put in the onions side by side, the stalks upwards. Pour over till the onions are half- covered. Add. Break in small pieces and add. Stew uncovered on a quick fire at first. Turn the onions with a fork one by one. Slacken the fire when they are half done. Reduce the sauce till it is nearly dried up. Dress the onions on a dish, taking care not to break them. Add to the sauce in the stewpan, mix well and pour over the onions. 40.—SPANISH ONIONS, a Vetuvee. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Spanish onions 3 or 4 ... Peel them and blanch them in boiling water. 2... Throw them into cold water and drain. 3-«- Butter 2 oz. Melt and brown in a stewpan. 4... Flour 1 dessert- Stir in gradually. spoonful Stock 1 pint ... Add. 6... Claret \ pint ... Add. 7... Pepper and salt Add. 8... Bunch of herbs Add. 9... Put in the onions and stew gently till tender, then take them out. 10... Reduce the sauce, strain, and pour over the onions. 11... Sippets of Fry in butter and put them all round bread the dish. Note.—Spanish onions are also boibd and served with white sauca, or stewed in gravy.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK 220 3- Melt in a stewpan over a good fire. Butter 41. —PARSNIPS, boiled. See receipt for boiling carrots. 42-POTATOES, boiled. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Potatoes Cold water Pare and throw them into cold water. Drain and put in a saucepan. Pour sufficient over to keep them from burning. Keep them close covered and boil about \ hour. When done, drain out the water and let them stand covered for 2 or 3 minutes. 43.-NEW POTATOES, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. ! i...j New potatoes 2...I Cold water ... 3..J ... 4..,] Warm water s-i ••• 1 6.,.| ... ! Rub the skins off, and put them in a dish. Pour over and let them soak 1 hour. Drain and put in a saucepan. Cover and let them boil \ hour with the saucepan uncovered. Drain off the water and let the potatoes stand a few minutes before the fire. Serve hot. Note.—Warm water is better than cold for young potatoes. 44—NEW POTATOES, French way. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. J... Small young 3 lbs. ... Scrape and throw into cold water. potatoes 2... Drain and wipe them. iib.VEGETABLES. NEW POTATOES, French way—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Shake the pan to prevent the butter burning. 5- When it is hot put in the potatoes. 6. Stir and brown them all over. 7... Let them absorb all the butter. 8... Salt ... Add at the end. 9... Serve hot. 45.-POTATOES, fried. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Potatoes Cut into thin slices. 2... Butter Melt in a frying-pan over a quick fire. 3 — Salt Sprinkle over. 4... Throw in the potatoes. 5--' Salt Z Sprinkle over again. 6... When they are fried on one side, turn them. 7- Let them get brown and crisp and serve hot. 46—POTATOES, & la maitre d'hdteU Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Potatoes 2 lbs. ... Half boil, then cut into thin slices. 2... Butter \ lb. ... Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. 3— Throw in the hot potatoes. 4... Chopped Sprinkle over, moving the pan about. parsley and chives 5- As the butter melts shake the pan to prevent browning the potatoes. 6... Salt Sprinkle ovor. 7... When the potatoes are tender serve them hot.MYRA*S COOKERY BOOK. 222 47-POTATO BOULETTES. Cider In red;cits ngre len s. Quantities. Method, I... Potatoes 2 lbs. ... Boil and mash while hot. 2... Parsley and Chop and mash up with the potatoes. chives r 1 3- Yolks of eggs 4... Butter 2 oz. .-..! 5— Boiled milk ... 1 teacup Add to the puree, putting in the 6... Salt frothed white of egg last. 7... Beaten whiles 2 of eggs 8... Flour Sprinkle over a pasteboard. 9... Make balls of the puree and roll them in the flour. 10... Boiling fat ... Fry the balls brown. 11... Salt Sprinkle over. 12... Serve dry with fried parsley. 48—POTATOES, with bacoitt Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Bacon 1 lb. ... Cut in small pieces, and brown in a stewpan. 2... Flour i tea Add to the bacon, stirring well till spoonful brown. 3- Saltand pepper Add to taste. 4... Sweet herbs ... A bunch Add. 5- Water Half fill the stewpan. 6... Potatoes 2 lbs. ... Peel, cut in pieces, and put with the rest. 7... Stew gently till tender. 8... Take out the herbs before serving.VEGETABLES. 223 49.—POTATOES, with parsley, German receipt. Order. Ingi edients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3 • 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... Potatoes Butter Flour Salt and nutmeg Onion Boiling water or milk Chopped parsley 2 lbs. j ib. ... i table spoonful To taste 1 ... | pint ... 1 handful Boil in water, then peel, and cut in slices. Met in a saucepan, without browning. Add and mix smooth with the butter. Add. Add if liked. Add. Put in the potatoes, and heat through. Add before serving and stir well. 50. -POTATO RIBBONS. CrJer. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 2... 3 •> 4... §••• 6... Potatoes Oil Z Salt and cayenne ... ... Wash, wipe, and pare them. Cut them in slices an inch thick. Pare the slices round and round in long thin ribbons, and throw them into cold water. When wanted, drain them in a sieve. Fry the ribbons in boiling oil, till quite crisp, and a nice brown. Drain them on a cloth. Sprinkle over and serve very hot piled on a dish. - 7... 5L— MASHED POTATOES. Cider. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... Potatoes Milk ... Salt 2 lbs. ... 4 pint .. A pinch... Boil or steam them and peel. Crush with a fork until smooth. Boil and mix with the potatoes. Add.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 224 MASHED POTATOES—(continued). Order, Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5- Butter 2 OZ. Mix in with the potatoes. 6... Shape in a mould or basin, and then turn on to a dish. 7... Butter I OZ. Cut in small pieces, and put over the potatoes. 8... Brown before the fire and serve. 52.-POTATOES, soufflin. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Potatoes 2 lbs. ... Peel and cut them in very thin slices. 2... Fat Fry them in moderately hot fat until nearly done. 3- Cold water ... Take them out of the pan, and throw them into cold water. 4... Take them out of the water at once, and let them drain. 5- Fry again in very hot fat, and shake the pan all the time; as they become brown, they will swell. 6 .. Salt Serve very hot sprinkled with salt. 53—SALSIFY, stewed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Cold water Vinegar Salsify Water Vinegar or lemon juice i\ pint ... 1 table spoonful 1 pint ... 1 table spoonful Mix in a basin. Clean and scrape the sticks to take off the skin, cut them in pieces about 4 inches long, and throw them at once into the vinegar and water to preserve their colour. l Boil together in a large saucepan. When the water boils put in the salsify with the skimmer*VEGETABLES. 225 SALSIFY, stewed—(continued). Order. Ingredients. j Quantities. Method. 7- 8... 9... 10... 11... 12... 13... 14... 13... Flour Salt and peppei Butter Butter Good stock or gravy Salt and pepper 1 tea spoonful A little if liked 2 oz. t rlf^ccfrt- spoonful I pint ... 54.-SAI 1 Add and boil 1 hour at least; when }> done they become soft, and are 1 taken out and drained. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. Sprinkle over gradually and stir well. Add gradually, and stir all the time. Put in the salsify, and let it stew gently uncovered. Add towards the end. Pile the salsify on a hot dish, pour the sauce over and serve very hot. .SIFY, fried. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... IO... II... 12... 13... 14... 15... i5... 17... iS... 19... Salsify Fine flour ... Salt Brandy Egg Milk or water Butter or lard Prepared salsify Salt Fried parsley i table spoonful A pinch... 1 table spoonful 1 yolk and white A few drops j Prepare as before as far as No. 9. Put in a dish and make a hole in the centre. ! Mix, pour gradually into the hole, [ mixing them with the flour. j Add and work in until the batter is quite smooth. Melt in the frying pan over a quick fire. Take one piece at a time oh a fork, dip it in the batter, and throw into the boiling fat, and fry on both sides. Sprinkle over both sides while frying-. Take the pieces out with a fork when done, and serve piled on a hot dish. To garnish the dish. QMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 226 55—SEA-KALE, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Sea-kale Wash and trim it, and tie it in bundles. 2... Boiling water Throw the sea-kale in. 3— Salt 1 spoonful Add. 4... Let it boil about 20 minutes. 5- Toast If liked ... Lay at the bottom of the dish. 6... Drain the sea-kale, and put it on the toast. 7... Melted butter Pour over it, or serve separately. 56.—SEA-KALE, stewed in gravy. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Sea-kale Boil for 10 minutes in salt and water. 2... Drain and put it in a stewpan. 3- Brown gravy Pour over it till covered. 4... Stew gently for 10 or 15 minutes. 5- Serve in the gravy very hot. 57.— SORREL, French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Sorrel I lb. ... Pick and wash it like spinach. 2... Boiling water Pour over it. 3... Take it out again, drain it and press it dry. 4... Chop it, but not too fine. 5-v Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a stewpan, and when hot put in the sorrel. 6... Salt A pinch Add. 7... Flour 1 tea Sprinkle over gradually and stir well spoonful227 VEGETABLES. SORREL, French receipt—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 8... Stock ipint ... Add and let it stew gently for \ hour. Q... Yolks of eggs 2 Beat up in a basin. IO..- Pepper and salt Add to the eggs. II... Take the stewpan off the fire, but keep it hot without boiling. 12... Add the beaten eggs and stir them in. I3... Butter \ oz. Add before serving. I4... Put the sorrel on a dish and serve poached or hard-boiled eggs on it. 58.—SPINACH, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. ... Spinach Pick each leaf, cutting off the stalk, and wash well. 2... Boiling water Put in a saucepan. Pour over till all is covered. 4... Salt I table Add. spoonful 5"- Boil fast, pressing down with the wooden spoon. 6... When tender, drain and chop fine. 7... Butter 2 oz. Heat in a stewpan. 8... Put in the chopped spinach. g... Pepper and salt Add. 10... Stir on the fire till very hot and dry. 11... Toast Put in a vegetable-dish. 12... Dress the spinach on the toast, and serve hot. 59.—SPINACH, an jus. Order.' Ingredients. Quantities. Method. ... . I... Spinach Take off the stalk and rib of each leaf and wash in cold water, then boil in the usual way. Q 2228 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. SPINACH, au jus—(continued). Older. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 2... ... Drain and press all the water out. 3- Chop very fine. 4... Butter I oz. Melt in a stewpan. 5... Flour 1 tea Sprinkle over. spoonful 6... Salt Add and shake over the fire for 3 minutes. 7... Put in the spinach and stir for 5 minutes. 8... Stock 1 table spoonful Add to moisten the spinach. 9... Veal broth or good gravy \ pint ... | Add gradually and stir well in. 10... Butter £ oz. ... Add just before serving, 11.,, Fried sippets To garnish the dish* CO.-TOMATOES, stuffed. Cider. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Tomatoes 4 0r5 ••• Choose them large, round and well shaped. 2... Peel them, cut off the stalks, and remove some of the pulp on the stalk side. 3- Pulp of tomatoes Have a small quantity of this freed from seeds and seasoned to taste. 4... Forcemeat ... Jib. ... Add to the mashed pulp. 5- Fill the tomatoes with this preparation. 6... Bread crumbs 2 OZ. Sprinkle over. 7... 8... 9- • Put the remainder of the forcemeat in a dish. Lay the tomatoes on this layer. Bake in the oven and serve very hot.VEGETABLES, 2-1 61.-T0MAT0ES, stewed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... A T" 5- 6... 7- Tomatoes Gravy or stock Flour Butter 5or6 ... 1 tea spoonful 1 oz. Cut off the stalks and arrarge them in a stewpan. Add till they are half covered. Stew gently till done on the under side, then turn them and stew the other side. Put the tomatoes in a dish. 1 Mix and put in the sauce to thicken J il- Pour the sauce over the tomatoes and serve. G2.- PUREE OF TOMATOES. Order. Ingredients. QuantitieSi Method. 1.. 2... o ••• 4... 5 — 6... 7... 8... Tomatoes ... Onion Good gravy ... Bayleaf Salt, cayenne 10 i small ... \ pint ... 1 cr 2 ... To taste Divide, take off the stalks and squeeze the seeds out. Put them in a saucepan. Add. Add and let them boil up. Add. Add. Let them simmer 1 hour. Press through a sieve into a stewpan. 9... 10... 11... Cream Flour I pint ... 1 tea spoonful | Mix, and boil for 5 minutes. Mix the cream with the tomatoes. 12... Heat thoroughly and serve very hot.230 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 63.—TOMATOES, roasted. Order Ingredients 0 t^uan 1 les. Method. I... Tomatoes 6 Choose them of equal size, and cut off the stalks. 2... Toast in a Dutch oven or Put them at the edge of the dripping pan. See that no fat from the meat falls on them. 5- Turn them until roasted all round. 6... They will take about 12 minutes. 64.—TURNIPS, boiled. Order Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Turnips 2 lbs. ... Peel and cut into quarters. 2... Salt and water Boil in a saucepan. 3- Put in the turnips and boil hours or till tender. 4... Drain and rub through a cullender. 5 — Butter I oz. Put into a stewpan. 6... Pepper Add. 7... Put in the turnips and stir over the fire till quite mixed and hot. Note.—When very young, turnips may be served whole. 65.—TURNIPS, French way. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Young turnips i£ lbs. ... Wash, peel, and leave whole, or cut in dice. 2... Butter Size of an Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. 3- egg Put in the turnips. 4... Salt ... 1 pinch ... Powdered 1 tea j- Sprinkle over. sugar spoonful 6... Let them fry till they are a light l i brown.VEGETABLES. 3i TURNIPS, French way—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 7... Gravy or stock \ pint ... Add gradually. 8... Cover the stewpan and let all simmer gently till the turnips are tender. 9... Serve hot. 66.- -TURNIPS, a la Ponlette. Drder. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Turnips 2 lbs. ... Wash, peel, and cut in pear-shaped pieces. 2... Boiling water, Pour, over them in a basin or deep salt and dish, and drain through a cullender. pepper Melt in a stewpan on a slow fire. 3- Butter 2 OZ. 4... Throw in the turnips. 5- Flour, salt Sprinkle over. and pepper 6... Stock or water 1 pint ... Add gradually, stirring well and stew gently. 7... Yolk of egg ... I Beat up in a basin. 8... Vinegar A few Add to the egg. drops 9... Take the turnips out with a slice and dress them on a dish. Mix the beaten up egg with the sauce in the stewpan. 11... Pour over the turnips and serve. 67-TURNIPS, minced. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Turnips 2 lbs. ... Cut them in very thin slices and dry them well with a cloth. 2... Butter 3 oz. ... Melt in a stewpan. 3- When hot put in the turnips.232 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. TURNIPS, minced—(continned). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... 5-» 6... 7... Salt, pepper... Powdered sugar I tea spoonful Sprinkle over. Add. Shake the turnips in the butter that they may not stick together. Cook gently a bright gold colour and serve without sauce. 68.— TURNIPS with mustard sauce. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Turnips 2 lbs. ... Peel and cut in equal sized pieces. 2... Boiling water Pour over to blanch them. 3-- Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a stewpan. 4... Stock £ pint ... Add to the butter. 5- Put in the turnips and stew gently. 6... When tender take them out and put on a dish. 7... Butter I OZ. Add to the sauce. 8... Mustard 1 dessert Add and stir in well. spoonful 9... Salt A pinch... Add, stir, and pour the sauce over the turnips. 69.-VEGETABLE MARROW, bailed. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Marrows 2 Peel. 2... Salt and water Boil in a saucepan. 3- When the water boils, put in the marrow and boil till tender. 4... Drain, cut into quarters if large, halve them if small. 5... Toast Serve under the marrows, with white sauce over.233 VEGETABLES. 70.—VEGETABLE MARROW, baked. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Marrow Onion sliced Pepper, salt... Butter 1 large Peel, cut in two and take out the seeds. > Put inside the marrow. ) Put the marrow in a vegetable dish. Bake 1 hour or till tender. Note.—Marrows are much nicer cooked this way than when boiled. 71.—VEGETABLE MARROWS, d VStuvk. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Marrows 4 Choose them small and white. 2... Peel them, cut them in quarters, and remove the seeds. 3- Cut the quarters in long pieces. 4... Boiling water ) Throw them into salted boiling f water, and boil a few minutes. 5- Salt 6... Drain them. 7... Butter 3 oz. Melt in a stewpan, but do not let it brown. 8 .. Flour 1 dessert Add gradually. spoonful 9 Milk ... Put in the pieces of marrow. 10... Use as much as necessary to thin the sauce. 11... Pepper and salt Add. 12... Parsley 1 dessert Chop fine and add. spoonful 13... Let the marrows stew for a few minutes, then put them on a hot dish. 14... Yolks of eggs 2 Beat up and add to the sauce with- out boiling. 15... Pour over the marrows and serve.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 234 72.-MACEDOINS OP VEGETABLES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Potatoes 2... Haricot beans 3... French beans A... Cauliflower ... D Artichokes ... 6... Asparagus 7— Cucumber ... 8... Beetroot 9... Vinegar 10... Pepper and salt ir... Spice 12... Crayfish 13... Prawns 14... Anchovies 15... Turbot 16... Salmon 17... Sole 18... Trout 19... Hard boiled eggs 20... Capers 21... Olives 22... Preserved cucumbers 23... Sausage 24... 25... Lettuces 26... Hard boiled 27... Salad oil 23... Vinegar 29... Pepper and salt 3°- If liked I Choose as many of these and of other vegetables as are in season, } and prepare by boiling in salt and water; then let them drain, and cut them in slices or shreds, j Mix together and put in the pre- pared vegetables. Shell and add if liked. Any of these or other kinds of fish ! may be added shred in thin slices; j all remains of cold fish are ad- missible. Chop fine and add. Add. Remove the stones and add. Cut in slices and add. Cut in thin slices. Arrange all the ingredients in the salad bowl. Use the hearts for garnishing. Pound the yolks only for the dressing. Add. Add. Add and mix all the ingredients well together. Pour the dressing over the Macedoine or serve separately.VEGETABLES. 235 73.—SALADS. Lettuce. Endive, good all the year round. Watercress. Lamb's-lettuce or corn salad. From September till frost. Celery. Autumn and winter. Dandelion. From October till spring. Purslain. Fennel. Mustard and cress. Radishes. 74.-METHOD OP PREPARING SALAD. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Lettuces Pick and examine each leaf separately. Throw them at once into cold water. Drain in a salad basket, shaking it well. Wipe and press each leaf dry with a cloth. Tear in pieces with the ringers and put in the salad bowl. Put the small salad on the top. 75.—DRESSING FOR SALAD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Salt, pepper... A pinch... Put in a salad spoon. 2... Mix and sprinkle over the salad. 3- Olive oil 2 or 3 Pour over and mix well in the salad. table spoonsful 4... Vinegar 1 dessert Add last of all. spoonful Note.—By mixing in this way there is never too strong a flavour of vinegar; if there is too much vinegar it sinks to the bottom of the bowl and does not mix with the oil.236 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 76—SALAD DRESSING, prepared beforehand. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Salt, pepper... 2... Vinegar i dessert | Mix in a bowl or basin. spoonful 3- Oil 2 or 3 Add by degrees, stirring all the time. table spoonsful 4- Pcur it over the salad in the bowl when required. 77.-PLAIN SALAD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. I... Lettuces 3 2... Mustard and A good cress quantity 3- Boiled beet- 5 or 6 root slices 4... Hard boiled 3 eggs 5- 6... Oil ... 2 table spoonsful 7... Vinegar 1 dessert spoonful 8... Pepper, salt Season well Wash and cut off the decayed leaves* Do. Add, if liked. Tear the lettuces into small pieces. \ Mix together and pour over the salad. Note. lettuces. -Radishes a::d cucumbers may be added. An endive may be used instead of 78.-POTATO SALAD. Order. Irgredients. Quantities. Method. I... Potatoes 2 lbs. Boil, dry, cut into slices and put them in a salad bowl. 2... Parsley | Chop fine and sprinkle over. 3- Chives 4... Chervil ...237 VEGETABLES. POTATO SALAD—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Meth3d. 6... 7... Oil Vinegar Salt, pepper... 3 table spoonsful 1 table spoonful ( Mix together and pour over, stirring (" well. Serve lukewarm. 79.-SALAD OF FRENCH BEANS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. X... Cold beans ... I pint ... Put in the salad bowl. Salt, pepper ... Sprinkle over 2 or 3 hours before serving. 3... vinegar i table Add with the salt and pepper, and spoonful mix. 4... Cover the salad bowl and put it aside. 5... Before serving drain the beans in a hair sieve, and put them back in the bowl. 6... Sweet herbs... Chop fine and sprinkle over the top. 7... Olive oil 2 or 3 Mix in the salad, and stir well table immediately before serving, spoonsful 80.-TOMATO SALAD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Tomatoes 8 Dip in boiling water and peel. 2... Cut them in slices. 3- Chopped i table Sprinkle over. parsley spoonful238 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. TOMATO SALAD—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Salt, pepper... To taste Add. Vinegar 1 dessert Add and stir well. spoonful 6... Olive oil 2 table Add gradually, stirring all the time. spoonsful 81.-FISH SALAD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities Method. Fillets of fish Lettuces Mustard and cress Beetroot Mayonnaise sauce Choose sole, plaice, or whiting, and cut them in fillets. Roll them up and tie with thread. Boil them and when cold remove the threads. ^ Wash well, pick, dry, and put in j the salad bowl. Cut in slices and add. Make openings in the salad and set the fillets up edgeways in them. Put a table spoonful of thick mayon- naise on the top of each fillet. Serve the remainder of the sauce separately. Order. Ingredients. Quantities 82— FISH SALAD, another way. Method. Remains of cold fish Mayonnaise". Mixed salad. Take away all skin and bones, and break in small pieces with forks. Mix well with the fish. Pick, wash, dry, and put in the salad bowl. Add the fish, stir all well together and serve.EGGS, OMELETS, AND CUSTARDS. 239 SECTION XI.—EGGS, OMELETS, AND CUSTARDS. l.-EGGS, boiled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3 — 4... Water Eggs Boil in a saucepan. Put them in the saucepan when the water boils. Let them boil 3 minutes. Serve them on a napkin or in egg cups. Note.—The fresher eggs are the longer they will take to boil. 2.—HARD-BOILED EGGS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... . 5- 6... S... Water Eggs Cold water ... Salt • ... .'' ... Boil in a saucepan. Put them in the saucepan when the water boils. Let them boil 15 minutes. Pour into a deep dish. Take out the eggs from the boiling water and plunge them into the cold. Let them get cool, then shell them. Cut them in quarters and serve them on tomato sauce. Sprinkle over.240 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 3.-FRIED EGGS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3--- 4... 5— 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... Butter Eggs Salt Eschalot chopped Bread crumbs Salt Water Vinegar 3 oz. ... 6 Melt in a fryingpan and let it brown. Break carefully one by one into the pan, and prevent them spreading. Sprinkle over. When they are a nice colour take them out with a skimmer and put them on a hot dish. Note.—French cooks make the following addition to fried eggs. 1 Mix and throw into the butter that t remains in the pan. Sprinkle over and stir. Add a few drops. Add 3 drops. Pour this sauce over the eggs and serve hot. 4 -POACHED EGGS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3--- 4... 5 • • j 6... 7- 8... 9... Water Salt Vinegar Eggs I pint ... 1 spoonful 1 wine glass 6 | Boil in a saucepan f full. Let it boil fast. Break them carefully one by one into the saucepan. With the skimmer gently draw the white over each yolk. One minute ought to suffice to set the eggs. Move the pan a little on the fire, and let the eggs simmer for 2 or 3 minutes. Take them out with a slice. Trim, drain and serve on a folded napkin, or on spinach, or other vegetable.EGGS, OMELETE, AND CUSTARDS. 241 5.—POACHED EGGS, en matelote. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Wine ••• 3- pint ... Put in a saucepan* 2... Water ... a" pint Add. O ••• Sweet herbs... A bunch Add. A... Onion ... 1 stuck Add. cloves z> • * Pepperand salt Add. 6... Garlic 1 clove Add if liked. 1... Boil for 1^5 minuteSs 8... Take out the herbs, &C. 9... Eggs 6 Break into the sauce and poach one by one, taking them out when done. 10... Fried sippets Place on a dish, put the eggs on the top and keep them hot. 11... Butter 1 oz. 12... Flour 1 tea | Work together and add to the sauce. spoonful 13... Reduce the sauce, strain, and pour it over over the eggs, and serve very hot. G--EGGS a la moutardi, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 1... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a saucepan. 2... Mustard i tea Add and mix well together. spoonful 3- Vinegar A few Add. drors 4... Pepper and sah Add. 5— Eggs Boil hard, shell, and cut in half lengthways. 6... Put the sauce on a hot dish. 7... Arrange the eggs on it, and put a spoonful of the sauce on each half egg- Nom—Eggs are served in the same way with thick anchovy sauce.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 242 7.- STUFFED EGGS. Order. In redients ngre len s. 0 i^uan i les. Method. I... 8 Boil hard, shell, and cut in half length^ ways. 2... Scoop out the yolks and pound them in a mortar. 3--« Crumb of 4 oz. | Soak the piece of bread in milk, bread > squeeze and pound with the 4.... Milk ! yolks. 5... Butter Add the same weight as the yolks. 6... Parsley A few Chop fine and add. spri ^s n /'" Eschalots 2 or q Chop and add. 8... Pepper and salt Add. 9... 'TCT 11 fm p cf 1> U I 111 ... Crratf* a lift If* f\\re*v inn miv ^rpll V-IIalC & 11LL1C UVtlj tlllU. 1111A WCH together. 10 ... 2 Beat up and add to the pounded yolks, &c. 11 ... ... IVIix well and press through a hair sieve. 12... ... Put some of this mixture in each of the hard boiled whites of eggs and pile it up. 13... Spread the remainder on a baking dish and lay the halves of egg on it. 14... Put the dish on hot coals, and cover with a pan of hot coals. 15... When nicely browned serve very hot. 8.—EGGS, a Vecossaise. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 3— 6... 7... Eggs Ham Fat bacon ... Butter Onion Parsley Sweet herbs... 6 1 oz. I oz. I oz. I A few sprigs Same quantity Boil hard and shell. Chop all the ingredients very fine, and then pound quite smooth in a mortar, -EGGS, OMELETS, AND CUSTARDS. 243 EGGS, a Vecossaise—{continued}* Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Yolks of eggs Pepper, salt, and nutmeg Cayenne pepper Egg Bread crumb Boiling fat .. A pinch of each A small pinch Beat up. Add to the beaten yolks. Add. Mix with the pounded ingredients to moisten them. Cover the hard boiled eggs with the forcemeat. Beat up the yolk and white together. Dip the eggs in the beaten egg. Roll the eggs in. Fry a good colour and serve very hot. '9.—EGGS? brouilUs, or mumbled. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter 2 oz. Melt in a stewpan. 2... Eggs 6 -Break into a basin and beat up. 3- Pepper and salt Add to the eggs. 4... Chopped 1 dessert Add. parsley spoonful 5... Milk 1 dessert Add and mix well. spoonful 6... Pour the beaten eggs on the hot butter and stir well over the fire. 7... When the eggs are set, but not hard, serve. 8... Fried sippets Garnish the dish. Note.—Eggs can be dressed in this way and served with any vegetables cooked beforehand, seasoned, and chopped fine, r 2244 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 10.—EGGS, sur le plat. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3— 4... 5... Fresh butter Salt and pepper Fresh eggs ... I 02. 4 Spread on the bottom of a dish that ron rrr\ r\ n f Vi» firo T^ViprA ci rp tin V_d.ll Uli 111C lilC. J.11C1C «.! C till enamelled dishes made on purpose. Sprinkle over. Break them carefully into the butter, taking care not to break the yolk, and arrange them regularly. Put the dish on hot cinders for ten minutes. Serve on the same dish. 11- -OMELET aux fines herbes. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3— 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 11... 12... 13... 14... 15... 16... 17... Parsley Bayleaf Chives Cress Fresh eggs ... Salt and pepper Butter in small pieces Water Butter ... If liked 6 1 oz. 2 oz. > Chop fine and mix together. Break into a basin and beat them well. 1 Add while beating. Add a few drops to assist the whites and yolks in mixing. Add the herbs, still beating. Let it stand a little. Melt in a frying pan over a clear fire. As soon as the butter is melted, pour in the eggs, &c. While the omelet is frying, shake the pan to prevent it catching. When it is firm, raise it and slip pieces of butter under it. Let it brown nicely. Fold the omelet in two. When it is done, slip it on a hot dish. Note.—the herbs may be left out for an omelet an natttreUEGGS, OMELETS, AND CUSTARDS. 245 12.—OMELET with asparagus. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 3- 4... Asparagus ... Butter 13- 2 OZ. -OMELI Cut the tops of cold dressed asparagus in small pieces. Melt in the omelet pan. Throw in the asparagus. Add the beaten eggs seasoned with herbs, and proceed as in 11. ]T with mushrooms. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Mushrooms ... 14 10 or 12 ... c.-OMEI Stew in butter for a few minutes. Mix with the eggs prepared for the omelet, and proceed as before. jET with onions. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I.. 2... 3- 4... Order. Onions Butter Butter 3 2 or 3 ... 2 OZ. I cz. .5.-0ME Peel and cut in slices. Melt in a pan. Throw in the oniong and brown them. Add. Pour on the beaten eggs and proceed as before. JLET au lard. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 16... Bacon or Ham Butter Sauce piquante | lb. Jib. ... 2 OZ. Cut in dice. Cut in thin slices. Melt in the omelet pan. Throw in the bacon or ham. When brown add the beaten eggs flavoured with pepper. Roll the omelet when done. Serve with the omelet.2|6 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 16.—OMELET aux anchois. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Anchovies Bread Oil Eggs Salt, pepper Oil Good gravy or sauce Soak in cold water for 15 minutes. Scrape, and cut them in small slices. Cut in thin slices and toast. Fry the sippets in boiling oil. Lay the slices of anchovy on the toasted sippets. Beat in a basin. Add. Put in a fryingpan on the fire. When it begins to boil, pour in half the beaten eggs for a thin omelet. When done put it in a dish. Lay the toasted sippets with anchovy on the omelet. Make a second omelet with the remainder of the eggs. Place this over the toast and serve. Pour over or serve separately. 17.—OMELET au frontage. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cheese lib. ... Grate fine. 2... Eggs 12 Beat in a basin. 3— Add the grated cheese. 4... Cream I tea Add to the eggs and beat well. cupful 5-- Pepper, salt ... Add. 6... Fry the omelet in the usual way. 18.—OMELET an pain [economical). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Stale bread ... Cut in small pieces enough to cover the bottom of the pan. 3— Butter 3 oz. Heat in the pan, and fry the bread. 4... Eggs 8 Pour on the beaten eggs, and fry as usual.EGGS, OMELETS, AND CUSTARDS. 247 19—OMELET an Rhum. Orde Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 2... 3- 4... 5--- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... ji... 13... Powdered sugar Grated lemon peel Milk Butter Powdered sugar Rum 1 tea spoonful 1 lemon... A little 3 cz- 1 wine glass Separate the yolks and whites into different basins. Beat the whites first. Beat the yolks separately. Add to the yolks whilst beating. Pour the yolks, &c, into the whites and beat them altogether. Add if liked, still beating. Melt in a frying pan. Pour in the eggs, &c. See 13, 14, and 15 in first omelet receipt, page 244. When done, grate sugar over. Pour over the omelet on the dish, Note—The rum may be set fire to on the table or not, at will. We prefer that the Draelet should have the benefit of the spirit, 20—OMELET soufflee. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Eggs 6 Break them into 2 basins, separating the whites and the yolks. 2... See 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of preceding receipt. 3- Butter | lb. ... Put into a frying pan over a clear fire. 4... Fry as in preceding receipts. 5- When the omelet has absorbed all the butter, slip it on to a baking dish and put it into the oven to rise, with a little butter under it. Directly it has risen well, serve. 6... 7... Powdered sugar Grate over and brown if liked.248 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. REMARKS ON OMELETS. The number of eggs used for an omelet should never exceed twelve, as a thick omelet is far less delicate than a smaller one. The omelet pan must be perfectly clean and never used for any other purpose. The eggs are best when beaten with a fork, but they should not be beaten for more than a minute or two, otherwise they become thin, and do not set well. Omelets are much lighter if a few small pieces of butter are beaten up with the eggs, or added to the beaten eggs immediately before frying. The butter in the pan must be quite hot, but not coloured, before the eggs are put in. All kinds of vegetables, cold meat, poultry, game, fish, macaroni, etc.; can be added to omelets to flavour them; they must first be broken or cut in small pieces and lightly fried in butter, 21.-EGG CHEESE, or fondue. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4- 5- 6... 7- 8... 9... Fresh eggs ... Grated cheese Butter Salt, pepper... Weigh. Take one-third the weight of the eggs. Break the eggs into a basin. Beat them well, gradually adding the grated cheese. Pour the contents of the basin into a saucepan and put it on a quick fire. Take one-sixth the weight of the eggs and add gradually in small pieces. Stir all with a wooden spoon till the eggs get thick. Sprinkle over, still stirring. Serve on a hot dish. 22.- SMALL EGG CAKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- Flour Milk Eggs i tea spoonful Smail quantity 2 | Mix together till quite smooth. Beat and add.EGGS, OMELETS, AND CUSTARDS. 249 vouring j SMALL EGG CAKES—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... Salt Whites of eggs Butter A pinch... 3 or 4 „. 2 oz. Add. Beat to a froth, and add to the rest. Melt in the fryingpan. Fry the mixture in spoonsful on both sides a light brown. Serve with spinach. 23.- -SWEET EGG CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3--- 4... 6... 7... 8... 9... Milk Sugar Nutmeg Lemon peel .., Eggs Yolks of eggs Butter | pint ... To taste A little ... 1 lemon... 5 2 3 oz. ... Put in a saucepan. Add. Grate and add. Grate and add. Let the milk get quite hot. Beat and add. Add and beat all well together, Heat in the frying pan. Fry the cake and serve hot. 24.-EGG-SNOW. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Fresh eggs ... 6 Break into 2 basins, the whites in one and the yolks in another. 2... Beat the whites to a firm froth. 3- Powdered 2 oz. 1 sugar } Add whilst beating. 4... Vanilla or To taste almond fla-MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. mond, &c. j EGG-SNOW—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Milk Flavouring Powdered sugar i pint .. To taste ( Boil together in a saucepan 15 j minutes. Take the saucepan off the fire. Take a large spoonful of the frothed whites and mould it into the form of an egg with another spoon, then drop it into the milk. Use up all the whites in the same way. Put the saucepan on the fire again and let it boil 2 minutes. Take the whites out with a skimmer and turn them in the cream. Let them boil 2 minutes more. Take out the whites, drain them over the milk and dress them in a pyramid on a deep dish. Pour the milk remaining in the saucepan gently over the yolks, and stir them well the same way with a wooden spoon. Stir about 15 minutes till the cream is thick, pour over the whites and serve cold. 25.—FRENCH CUSTARD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Milk J pint ... Boil in a saucepan. 2... Powdered 2 oz. 1 sugar 3- Flavouring of Either ... } Mix in the milk when it boils. 1 vanilla, al-EGGS, OMELETS, AND CUSTARDS. 251 FRENCH CUSTARD—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Draw the saucepan to the side of the stove. 5- Eggs 4cr5 ... Beat them up. 6... When the milk no longer boils pour in the beaten eggs gradually, stir- ring all the time. 7... 8... Boiling water Powdered sugar Place the dish in a saucepan of boiling water over a quick fire for f of an hour. Sprinkle over and serve cold in the dish. 26.—ENGLISH CUSTARD. Ingredients. Milk Bay-leaves . Lemon peel . Powdered sugar Eggs well beaten Quantities. 1 quart ... 3 1 lemon... Method. Pour into a saucepan. I Add. Set by the side of the fire for about 20 minutes. When on the point of boiling, strain into a basin to cool. ( Stir in. j Strain again into a jug. Put the jug into a deep saucepan of boiling water, put it on the fire and, stir it one way till it thickens. Pour into a glass dish, or custard cups.252 MYR/VS COOKERY BOOK. SECTION XII,—SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS. 1 — MELTED BUTTER, or sauce blanche. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Fine flour .. Cold or tepid water or boiled milk Fresh butter in small pieces Salt Boiled cream Egg Salt > .. Lemon juice.. | table spoonful J pint ... i table spoonful i yolk ... i pinch ... 3 or 4 drops Put into a saucepan. Pour over gradually, stirring with a wooden spoon. Mix well and leave no lumps. Put the saucepan on the fire. Add by degrees, stirring without stopping. Add, still stirring. Simmer the whole | hour but do not let it boil. Beat up in a basin then mix in I the sauce, stirring the same way, I The lemon juice can be omitted if disliked. Serve in a sauce-boatt 2—CAPER SAUCE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Capers 3 Spoons- Chop half of them and keep the rest ful whole. 2... Parsley If liked ... Chop a little very fine. 3--- Put the parsley and capers into a saucepan. 4... Melted butter ipint ... Add, stir well and boil up. 5" Salt Add, and serve in a sauce-boat.SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS. 253 3.—APPLE SAUCE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities Method. Apples Water Lemon reel ... Butter and sugar i table spoonful Of each i oz. Pare, core and slice. Put them into a saucepan. Add a little to keep them from burning. Add a little. Boil them tender or bake in a dibh for an hour. Bruise the apples. Add and serve. 4-MINT SAUCE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Mint 3 spoons- Wash thoroughly and dry. ful 2... Chop fine. 3- Put into a sauce boat. 4... Sugar Add to taste and let it stand. 5... Vinegar 6 spoons- Pour on to the mint, stir and serve. ful B—ONION SAUCE. Quantities. Method. Large onions Butter Cream or milk Saltand peppe- 1 lb. weight Boil and change the water 2 or 3 times while they are boiling. When tender chop them on a board. Put them into a saucepan. Add. Add 2 table spoonsful. Add, give them a boil up and serve.254 MYRA'S COOKERY BO 6.—SOUBISE, French onion sauce. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... White onions 12 Peel, cut, and throw into a basin. 2 Boiling water Pour over till covered. Pepper, salt Sprinkle over. 4... T f±f tV)Am cfonn Tfi rn 1 n 11 f P fi thon IjCL IHC111 oLcvllU. J. \J llllli U.ICA, U11C11 Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a saucepan without browning. 6... Put in the onions. 7... Veal or chicken Add gradually nearly enough to cover broth the onions, stirring all the time. 8... Boiling cream ipmt ... Add. 9... Powdered A pinch... Add if liked. sugar Simmer very gently until the sauce 10... thickens, still stirring. 11... Rub through a sieve. 12... Keep hot in a bain-marie. 7—SHRIMP SAUCE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- Shrimps Melted butter Anchovy sauce Lemon juice.«. I pint ... 1 pint ... Wash and pick. Make, and while it is simmering put in the shrimps. Add 1 dessert spoonful. When thoroughly hot take it off the fire. Squeeze in J lemon, stir and serve. 8.—OYSTER SAUCE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Oysters 2 doz. ... Scald and strain the liquor into a basin. Wash in cold water and cut off the beards.255 SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS. OYSTER SAUCE—{Continued). Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Anchovy sauce 5 — Half a lemon 6... Butter rolled 2 oz. in flour 7... New milk ... I pint 8... Put them into a stewpan and pour the strained liquor over them; heat them slowly, simmer a minute or two, and take them out. Add 1 spoonful to the liquor. [Add; stir till they boil, and are j* well mixed; add a blade of mace. Add and stir till the sauce boils. Take out the mace and lemon, and squeeze the lemon juice into the sauce. Put in the oysters, stirring all the time, then simmer till hot, and serve. 9—LOBSTER SAUCE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method, I... 2... 3- 4... Lobster Melted butter Salt and pepper Cayenne Break the body, and cut the flesh into small pieces. Add and stir. Add. Add, stir all together and heat with> out boiling. 10.-EGG SAUCE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... Eggs Melted butter 2 | pint ... Boil till hard. First chop the whites, then the yolks, but neither very fine, and mix them together. Put into a sauce boat. Add the eggs, stir and serve.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 11.—BREAD SAUCE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Bread crumbs J pint ... Choose stale bread, and grate very fine. 2... Milk J pint ... ... Boil and pour over the bread crumbs. 3 — ... Cover the basin with a plate, and let it stand 30 minutes. 4... ... Put the soaked crumbs in a small saucepan, and beat with a fork if not quite smooth. 5- Salt 1 spoonful Add. 6... Mace h tea spoonful Add. 7... Cayenne A pinch... Add. 8... Butter 1 oz. Add. 9... Put on the fire and stir constantly. 10... Milk or cream 2 table Add gradually and keep stirring. spoonsful Boil 4 or 5 minutes, and serve very hot. 11... 12—BREAD SAUCE, with onion. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Bread crumbs £ pint ... Grate fine and put in a saucepan. 2... Onion 1 large and mild Add the white part only cut in quarters. 3- Milk f pint ... Add. 4... Boil for about 50 minutes. 5 — Press through a hair sieve. 6... Put in the saucepan again, and reduce if too thin by boiling. 7... Salt 1 spoonful Add. 8... Nutmeg 1 spoonful Add. Q... Butter 1 oz. Add. 10... Cream 2 or 3 table Add. spoonsful Boil.a few minutes, and serve very hot. II...257 SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS. 13-TO CLARIFY GRAVY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I,,, Gravy 2 quarts Skim, strain, and pour hot into a saucepan. 2... Whites of eggs 2 or 3 ... Beat up and add gradually. 3- Stir on the fire until the gravy nearly boils. 4... Take it off the fire and let it stand a minute. 5- Pour very slowly through a wet cloth into a basin. 6.., When cold it will form a clear transparent jelly. 14.-TO TAKE THE PAT OFF SAUCES. Draw the saucepan to the side of the stove, and throw a few drops of cold water into it. The fat can then be easily removed with a spoon. 15-TO THICKEN SAUCES. Work up some flour and butter together, then add gradually a few spoonsful of the sauce ; when it is quite mixed and free from lumps add it to the sauce and boil until it thickens sufficiently. 16.-TO THICKEN SAUCES WITH EGG. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Egg Water or lemon juice Sauce 1 yolk A few drops 2 table spoonsful Break carefully into a basin quite free from any of the white. Beat with a spoon. Add gradually and beat in. Take the sauce to be thickened off the fire and let it stand 2 minutes. Take out of the saucepan and mix with the beaten egg. Pour the egg into the sauce, shake, and stir well, heat thoroughly and serve. s258 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 17.—ROUX, coloured. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Butter Fine flour 2 OZ. 2 OZ. Stock or sauce ^ pint Pepper, salt... Melt in a saucepan. Add when the butter is quite hot, and stir quickly with a wooden spoon until nicely browned. Pour in gradually with one hand, stirring all the time with the other. Add. Heat in this any remains of cold meat. 18.—ROUX, white. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Butter Flour Veal broth pint Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. Add and stir quickly. Add at once before the butter and flour have browned. Put the saucepan on hot cinders. Cover it and let it simmer gently for £ hour, shaking from time to time. Use with colourless sauces, and for heating remains of poultry and white meats. 19.-TO CURRY MEAT. When you wish to add curry to any stew, sprinkle your meat with curry powder before you put it in the stewpan. The sauce is generally poured over boiled rice which is placed round the dish. The gravy for curry ^ould always be prepared the day before it is required, and care- fully skimmed when cold.SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS. 259 20.—SAUCE FOR ALL PURPOSES. Ingredients. Butter Flour Onions Stock Sherry Chives Thyme Bayleaf Tarragon Parsley Lemon peel Pepper, salt Lemon juice Quantities. Method. 2 OZ. i dessert spoonful 1 pint ... 1 wine glass A few ... A few sprigs 1 A little ... A few sprigs \ lemon If liked Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. Mix with the butter. -Add, stirring all the time. > Chop fine, mix together, and add to the sauce. Sprinkle over and mix well. Let it simmer at least 2 hours. Strain and keep for use. Add to taste just before serving. This sauce can be served with almost any kind of meat. 21.—SAUCE a la moutarde. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter 2 OZ. Melt in a saucepan. 2... Mustard I tea Stir into the butter when it is hot. spoonful 3- Pepper, salt ... A pinch Add. of each 4... Vinegar A few Add. drops 5- Stir quickly and serve. s 2MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 25o 22.—SAUCE ESPAGNOLE. Crder. Ingredients> Quantities. Method. I... Ham 2 slices ... Put in a stewpan. 2... Veal A few Add. slices 3— Carrots 2 Cut in slices and add. 4... Onions 2 Cut in slices and add. 5- ... Simmer gently over a slow fire. 6... Stock 1 pint ... Add. 7... Sherry 2 wine Add. glasses 8... Pepper, salt ... Add. 9... Sweet herbs... A bunch Add. 10... Cloves 2 or 3 Add. 11... Simmer for 3 hours. 12... Strain. 13... Roux Colour with roux. 14... Reduce and skim. 15... This makes a brown clear sauce to be used as required. 23.—SAUCE ITALIENNE. Crder. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Parsley Eschalots Mushrooms Truffles Butter Sherry Stock Pepper, salt A few sprigs 2 or 3 4 or 5 2 or 3 2 oz. glass h Pint »J )■ Chop fine and mix together. Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. Throw in the prepared seasoning, stir it well, and brown in the butter. Add still stirring. Add and continue stirring. Add. Boil \ hour, stirring all the time. Serve in a sauceboat, with roast meat.SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS. 261 24.—SAUCE a la Bechamel. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter 2 OZ. ) 2... Flour i dessert > Roll together and put in a stewpan. spoonful O • • • Cream or £ pint Add gradually and stir till smooth. boiled milk 4... Put on a slow fire and stir 10 minutes. 5- Veal stock ... I pint ... Add, still stirring. 6... Butter 1 oz. Cut in small pieces and add. 7... Pepper, salt ... Add. 8... Keep the sauce hot in a bain-marie. g... ... It should be of the consistence or cream and ivory-white in colour. 25- -SAUCE a> la maitre cThotel. Order. Ingiedients. Quantities. Method. I,.. Butter I OZ. 2... Pepper, salt... 3... J Chopped A good Mix, knead into a ball and pur on a parsley pinch 4... Chopped 2 " ... hot dish. eschalots 5- Vinegar or A few lemon juice drops 6... Put the cooked fish or meat On the ball and serve; the heat of the dish will melt the sauce. 26.—ANOTHER SAUCE & la maitre d'hotcl Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour i dessert spoonful 2... Water \ pint ... 3- Butter 1 oz. 4... Chopped 1 dessert > Mix together and put in a stewpan. parsley spoonful 5- Chopped A pinch... chives 6... Pepper, salt262 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. ANOTHER SAUCE a la maitre cVhoiel—{cont:nucd). Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Lemon juice A few- drops Stir with a wooden spoon until il begins to boil. Add if liked. Pour over the meat and serve. 27.—SAVOURY SAUCE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Vinegar . I wine Put in a saucepan. glass 2... Eschalot 1 Cut in pieces and add. Bay leaves ... 4 or 5 ... AAA /\ciu. 4... Thyme and A few Add. parsley sprigs oves 2 Add. 6... epper A lar^e Add. pinch 7... Salt Add. 8... Boil till the vinegar is reduced to half the quantity. 9... Stock fp'nt ... Add and simmer gently. 10... Butter and 1 oz. Make a roux in another saucepan. Hour 11... Strain the sauce on to the roux. 12... Boil for 20 minutes. 28.- -SAUCE an pauvre homme. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Eschalots 5 or 6 ... Chop fine and put in a saucepan. 2... Parsley A few Chop and add. sprigs 3 •• Gravy or stock f pint ... Pour over. 4... Pepper, salt... Add. 5... Simmer for J hour until the eschalots 1 | are tender.263 SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS. SAUCE au pauvre homme—[continued). OrJer. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Vinegar A few drops Add if liked. Very nice for warming slices of cold beef, mutton, veal, &c. 29.—SAUCE ROBERT. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Onions 5 or 6 ... Chop fine. 2... Butter 2 QZ. Melt in a saucepan on a slow fire. 3" Put in the chopped onions to brown. 4... Flour i dessert spoonful Sprinkle over and stir well. 5- Stock J pint ... Add gradually, still stirring. Leave the saucepan uncovered and reduce for 20 minutes. 6... 7... 8... Mustard 1 tea spoonful Draw the saucepan away from the fire. ( Mix in a basin, adding the vinegar 9... Vinegar 1 table spoonful j drop by drop. 10... Stir well and add to the sauce. 11... Serve in a sauceboat with roast pork. 30—SAUCE REMOLADE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... Eschalots Parsley Tarragon Chervil Chives Salt, pepper ... Capers A few Z 1 Chop fine separately, and then mix j in a basin. Sprinkle over. Add if liked.264 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. SAUCE REMOLADE—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 8... Mustard i tea Put in another basin. spoonful 9... Olive oil ... 2 table Add drop by drop, and mix smooth spoonsful with the mustard. IO... Add the chopped herbs and mix well. II... Yolk of egg ... r Beat and add if liked. 12... Serve with cold meat or chicken, &c. 31—TOMATO SAUCE. Order T j. Ingredients. Quantities. Metnou. t... Tomatoes ... 8 L/Uoose tnem very ripe. 2... Cut them in quarters, and put them Salt and pepper into a saucepan. 3- 1 4... Bayleaf jieaf 5- 6... Sliced onion... Bunch of 1 1 } Throw on the tomatoes. parsley and 1 j thyme 7... Water Pour over till all is covered. 8... Vinegar 2 or 3 drops Add. 9... Put the saucepan on a slow fire. 10... Stir for 15 minutes. 11... Put a sieve over a basin. 12... Put the tomatoes in the sieve. 13... Rub the tomatoes through the sieve. 14... Butter i'ib. !.■; Melt in a saucepan over a slow fire. Dredge over, stirring with a wooden 15... Flour, if liked 1 table 16... Salt and pepper spoonful spoon. Sprinkle over. 17... Pour in the tomato sauce gently, stirring without stopping over a slow fire. 18... Let it thicken uncovered. 19... Stock ... A few drops Add if the sauce is too thick. 20... Serve in a sauceboat.SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS. 265 32.—SAUCE au benrre noir. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I .. 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7- Butter Salt and pepper Parsley Chives Vinegar Jib. ... ) A very J little 1 tea spoonful Melt in the frying-pan. Sprinkle over. Stir till the butter browns, but do not let it burn. Chop fine and throw in to fry. Add, stirring quickly. Pour this sauce boiling over fish, or hard boiled eggs. 33.—SAUCE Piquant* Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5— 6... 7... Tarragon vinegar Eschalots Bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay leaf Pepper corns Stock or gravy I wine glass Chopped 3 or 4 ... 3 table spoonsful Put into a saucepan and boil over a > good fire till the vinegar is evaporated. Pour into the saucepan. Let it simmer uncovered. Strain and serve. 34.—ANOTHER SAUCE Piquant* Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- Butter Flour Vinegar Stock Salt and pepper 2 OZ. I OZ. i table spoonful £ pint ... Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire. Stir into the butter. | Pour over, still stirring. Add.?,66 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. ANOTHER SAUCE Piquante—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 6... Eschalots ) 7... Pickled > Chop and add. gherkins 8... Let all simmer 15 minutes. g... Lemon juice 1 lemon Add if liked. 35—SAUCE HOLLANDAISE. Order, Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Butter Flour Salt and pepper Warm water Yolk^ of eggs Lemon juice or vinegar i lb. ... 1 table spoonful 1 pinch ... 1 table spoonful 2 1 tea spoonful Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire, stirring with a wooden spoon. i Sprinkle over the butter, stirring. Pour over gradually, still stirring till the sauce is thick. Put the saucepan at the side of the fire. Beat up in a basin together. Pour the egg gradually into the sauce, stirring with a wooden spoDn. Let it thicken, but not boil, or it will turn. Serve over fish. 36—SAUCE blanquette. Order. Ingredients. Butter Flour Boiling water Pepper and salt Parsley Eschalots Quantities. 3 oz. 1 table spoonful f pint ... A few sprigs 301-4 .., Method. Melt in a saucepan on a slow fire. Add and stir well, but do not let it brown Add gradually, still stirring. Sprinkle in. ) Tie in a bunch or chop fine, and ( add.267 SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS. SAUCE blanquette—(continueJ). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 7... 8... g... 10... 11... Small white onions Mushrooms Artichokes ... | If liked S'mmer gently over a slow fire. Heat in the sauce any remains of white meats, as poultry, veal, &c. | Add any of these and simmer in the j' sauce. 37—SAUCE braise Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5— 6... 1::. 11... 12... 13... 14... 15... 16... 17... iS... 19... Bacon Trimmings of meat Beef or other meat Butter Flour Salt, pepper ... Onions Carrots Parsley Thyme Chives Bay leaf Brandy Stock or white wine Buttered paper z \ lb. ill slices ii lb. ... 2 oz. 1 dessert spoonful 2or3 ... 1 or 2 ... "1 A few 1 sprigs V ofeach | tiedto- J gether 1 wine glassful a pint ... ( Put at the bottom of a shallow j saucepan. Brown with the bacon on a quick fire. Turn the meat and take it out when brown. Add to the bacon in the saucepan. Dredge over. Add and stir till the butter melts. Stick with cloves and add. Cut in slices and add. 1 )>Add. 1 J Add. Add either if required. Cover the stexpan. Put on the lid, and stew gently 4 hours. Take out the herbs, &c, and skim. Put the meat on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over it through a strainer.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 268 38.-HORSERADISH SAUCE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- A... TV 5- 6... 7- 39. Horseradish... Salt Cream Vinegar -SAUCE P i young... 1 salt spoonful 4 table spoonsful 2 table spoonfuls OIVRAE Scrape, and clean, and grate very fine. Mix with it. Add and mix wrell. Add by degrees and stir well. Put ft in a small saucepan, and hold it over the fire. Stir well, and make the sauce quite hot, but do not let it boil. Serve hot or cold. >E, to serve with chicken a la diable. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 4... 6... 7... Sherry Stock Eschalot Pepper and salt Parsley 1 wine glass 2 wine glasses 1 chopped fine A small bunch 40.-SA1 , Heat together in an open saucepan [ and reduce the sauce. Take out the parsley Serve in a sauceboat. CJCE Tartare. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3~ Chervil Eschalot Tarragon ( Chop fine and mix in a basin. )SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS, 269 SAUCE, Tartare—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Salt, pepper... Spi inkle over. 5- Mustard i dessert spoonful 1 Mix together and add the chopped 6„. Vinegar 1 dessert j " herbs by degrees. spoonful 7... Yolk of egg... 1 Beat up and add. 8... Olive oil 2 dessert spoonsful Add drop by drop, stirring all the time. Vinegar A few drops Add if the sauce is too thick. 10... Serve with cold meat. 41.—WALNUT CATCHUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Walnuts 100 young Beat and pound in a large mortar. 2... Put them into a jar. Eschalots chopped 6 oz. 4... Garlic 1 clove ... [Add. 1 5- Vinegar 2 quarts... 6... Salt lib. ... J 7... 8... Let this stand for a fortnight, stirring twice a day. Strain off the liquor and put it in a stewpan. g... Anchovies ... 2 oz. 10... Peppercorns... 2 oz. |Add. 11... Mace i oz. 12... Cloves J oz. ... 13... Boil for ^ hour, skimming well. 14... Strain off, cork well, and keep in a dry place.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, 2;o 42. -MUSHROOM CATCHUP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Mushrooms ... i peck ... Break into a large basin. 2... Salt £ lb. ... Strew over the mushrooms. 3- Place in a cool oven all night. 4- Strain off the liquor, measure it, ar.d let it boil 15 minutes. 5- Pepper I oz. to I quart of liquor 1 Add to the liquor and let it boll J 6... Allspice I oz. to do. 7- 8... g... Ginger Mace ^oz.to do. 2 blades... j hour. When cold, bottle and cork. 43.—MAYONNAISE SAUCE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5"- Yolks of eggs Salt and pepper Lemon juice or good vinegar Salad oil Water 1 tea spoonful 2 table spoonsful 1 tea spoonful I Beat up in a basin beginning with )- the eggs and adding the vinegar drop by drop. Add drop by drop, beating all the time for 15 minutes. Add drop by drop when the sauce is thick. Note.—This sauce requires the greatest care in making or it will turn. It is delicious with cold meat or fhh. 44.-RED CURRANT JELLY SAUCE, for venison. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Red currant i small Melt in a saucepan. jelly pot Add. 2... Port wine 1 wine glassful 3- Simmer gently till hot and serve ia a sauceboat.271 SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS, 45.-WINE SAUCE, for puddings. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. J... 2... 4... 5- Melted butter Powdered sugar Lemon peel Sherry \ pint ii oz. \ lemon... 2 wine glasses Make in a saucepan. Add. Grate very fine and add. Add gradually. Stir till the sauce nearly boils and serve at once. 46.—CLEAR WINE SAUCE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... 9... Water Lemon peel... Lump sugar... Arrowroot ... Lemon juice Sherry \ pint ... i lemon ij oz. ... 1 tea spoonful 1 lemon [ wine glass Put in a saucepan. Cut very thin and add. Add and boil 10 minutes. Take out the lemon peel. ( Strain the lemon juice on to the f arrowroot and mix smooth. Add to the sauce and stir well. Take the sauce off the fire. Add gradually, stir well, and serve. 47.-VEAL STUFFING OR FORCEMEAT. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4— 5- 6... 7... Bread crumbs Lemon rind ... Chopped herbs Suet or butter Pepper and salt Nutmeg Beaten eggs... 6 oz. J lemon... 1 oz. 6 oz. To taste do. 2 yolks ... l 1 Mix all together, and use butter in j preference to suet. J Add to make the mixture into a paste.373 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 48.-SAGE AND ONION STUFFING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Onions 3 Wash, peel, and boil in two waters, unless the onions are Spanish, and consequently not so strong. 2... Sage leaves ... 8 Scald. 3--- Chop the onions and leaves fine. 4- Bread crumbs 5 oz. Add. 5- Salt and pepper Season well. 6... Butter I oz. | Add and mix well. 7... Yolk of egg ... I Put into the duck, &c. 49.—FORCEMEAT, for chickens, &c. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Sausage meat 1^ lb. or 2... Veal 1 lb. ... | Chop fine and pound in a mortar. 3- Bacon 1 lb. ... 4... Salt, pepper... Add. 5-- Sweet herbs... 2 or 3 tea Chop and add. spoonsful 6... Bread crumbs Jib. ... Soak in gravy and add. 7... Hard boiled eggs or 2 1 If boiled, chop the yolks only, and t add. Beaten yolks 2 8... Truffles or Add chopped fine, mix well together, mushrooms and heat for J hour in a saucepan. 9... Butter 2 oz. Add. 10... Gravy A dessert Add. spoonful 11... Mix well, and use for stuffing fowls or turkeys. 12... Liver of fowl If liked... Boil 4 minutes, mince and pound, and add to ingredients 1 to 8. Note.—This forcemeat can also be used for raisei pies.SAUCES AND FORCEMEATS. 273 50— FORCEMEAT BALLS, for jugged hare. r er. Ingredients. 0 yuan 1 les. Method. I... Bread crumbs 4 oz. Choose stale bread and grate fine. 2... Lemon peel ... \ oz. ... Pare thin and grate or chop very fine. D'" Parsley, thyme \ oz. Chop fine. 4... Salt, nutmeg To taste Add. 5- Liver of hare Boil for 3 minutes and chop fine. 6... Rasped bacon 2 oz. Add. 7... Butter 2^ oz. ... Break in small pieces and add. 8... Eschalot 1 or 2 if Chop fine and add. liked 9.., Egg 1 yolk Beat with the fingers a little and only add. 10... Mix all together till quite smooth. 11... Port wine 1 wine glass Add if liked and mix well. 12... Form into balls and fry in butter. Note.—This forcemeat can also be used for stuffing a roasted hare, but does not then require to be made into balls and fried, 51.—QUENELLES, French forcemeat balls. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Veal Veal kidney fat Bread crumbs Boiling cream or veal gravy E^s Jib. ilb. Jib. i Pint Take off all skin and fat, chop and pound. Take away every particle of skin, chop, and pound with the veal to a perfectly smooth paste. Choose stale bread and grate fine. Put the bread crumbs in to soak I hour. Squeeze the crumbs and then dry them over the fire. Pound them alone in a mortar. Add the meat gradually and continue pounding. Beat the yolks and the whites to- gether and add by degrees while pounding. TMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 274 QUENELLES, French forcemeat balls—-(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. g... 10... Pepper, salt, nutmeg ii... Flour 12... I3... Boiling water I4... 15... Method. Add. When well mixed and smooth, form into oblong balls with the spoon. Sprinkle on the board and roll the quenelles in. Have ready a large saucepan full. Throw in the quenelles one by one and boil for 3 minutes. Take them out and drain them. Serve in mock-turtle soup or alone with rich gravy, or dip in egg and bread crumbs and fry as croquettes. Note.—Quenelles are also made of remains of cold fowl, game, or fish, and butter can be used in place of veal fat. In poaching quenelles it is well to cook one first to see that the mixture is of the right consistence. It should be light and yet firm; if it is too heavy add the beaten white of an egg, if, on the contrary, it swells in the water and is limp when taken out, add a little milk to the mixture before poaching any more. 52-CALF'S LIVER FORCEMEAT. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Calf's liver ... I lb. ... Cut in small pieces. 2... Lard fib. ... Wash well and melt in a stewpan on a slow fire. Put in the liver. 4... Salt, pepper... Add a good sprinkling of both. 5... Nutmeg Add, with allspice if liked. 6... Bay leaves ... 1 or 2 ... Add. 7... 8... Stir well over the fire for about 4 minutes. Let it get cold then pound in a mortar and press through a sieve.275 PASTRY. SECTION XIII.—PASTRY. ON MAKING PASTRY. As the heat of your oven must be regulated by what you intend to bake, the following rules should be carefully attended to:— 1. Light paste requires a moderate oven, but not too slow, as that will deprive it of the light appearance it should have, and too quick an oven will catch and burn it, without giving it time to rise. 2. Tarts that are iced require a slow oven, or the ice will be brown before the paste is properly baked. 3. Raised pies must have a quick oven, and be well closed up, or the pie will fall in at the sides; and it should have no water put in till just before you put it in the oven, or the crust will look sodden. l.-CRISP PASTE FOR TARTS. 1. Mix 1 oz. of loaf sugar beaten and sifted, with 1 lb. of fine flour, £uid make into a stiff paste with a gill of boiling cream or milk. 2. Work 3 oz. of butter into it. 3. Roll it very thin and make your tarts or pie-crust. 4. Ice your paste by beating the white of an egg a little, and rubbing it over the paste with a feather. 2.-RICH PUFF PASTE. 1. Rub a pound of butter very fine into a quarter of a peck of flour. 2. Make it into a light paste with cold water, just stiff enough to work it. 3. Roll it out to the thickness of a five-shilling piece, and put a layer of butter all over it. 4. Sprinkle on a little flour, double it up, and roll it out again. 5. Double it and roll it out seven or eight times, when it will be fit for all sorts of pies and tarts that require a puff paste. 3.-LIGHT PASTE FOR TARTS. 1. Beat the white of an egg to a strong froth, and mix it with as much water as will make f lb. of flour into a tolerably stiff paste. 2. Roll it out very thin; lay 3 oz. of butter in thin pieces upon it and dredge it with a little more flour. 3. Roll it up tight, then roll it out again, and continue until J lb. each of butter and flour be used. 4. Cut it into square pieces, and make your tarts. This will require a quicker oven than crisp paste. t 2MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 4.—SUET CRUST. I, Shred 10 oz. suet and chop fine, and mix it with i lb. flour, and water into a stiff paste. 5.—DRIPPING PASTE. i. Boil the dripping in a good quantity of water for 4 or 5 minutes to take the strength off it, then use instead of butter according to the preceding receipts. 6.—AMERICAN PUFF PASTE. 1. Work I lb. of butter into 1 lb. of flour until it is like sand. 2. Take 2 tea spoonsful of cream of tartar, and 1 tea spoonful of carbonate of soda, rub them through a sieve and add them to the flour. 3. Add enough cold water to bind and work it smooth. 4. Roll the paste to £ inch thick. 5. Spread \ lb. of butter over, then fold it up and roll it out again. 6. Repeat No. 5 twice till you have used 1 lb. of flour. 7. Fold and roll for the last time. 7.—PASTE FOR MEAT PIES. 1. Work 1 lb. of butter into 2 lbs. of flour, until it crumbles. 2. Add a small teaspoonful of salt. 3. Beat up the yolks of 4 eggs with half-a-pint of cold water. 4. Strain and mix with the flour to a firm paste. 5. Roll it out to the required thickness. 8.—FRENCH PUFF PASTE. 1. Put 1 lb. of flour on the paste board, and make a hole in the centre. 2. Put £ teaspoonful of salt, and i£ wine glassful of water into the hole. 3. Work the flour in with the right hand, and add another wine glassful of water gradually with the left hand. 4. Work the paste till it is quite smooth and does not stick to the board or the fingers. 5. Make the paste into a ball, and roll and flatten it with the hands. 6. Cover it with a cloth, and put it aside in a very cool place for ^ hour. In hot weather stand it over ice. 7. Flour the board and put the paste on it, then roll it into an oblong shape. 8. Put in the middle f lb. of firm, well washed and squeezed butter.PASTRY. 277 FRENCH PUFF PASTE—(continued). 9. In summer the butter should be kept on ice, till wanted. 10. Fold the ends of the paste over the butter, and form a square mass, 11. Flatten it again into an oblong shape, and fold it in three from the ends. 12. Let it stand 10 minutes. 13. Repeat this folding and flattening 6 times in summer, and 7 times in winter, always letting it stand 10 minutes between whiles. 14. Flour the board lightly each time. 15. After the last time of folding, let it stand 5 minutes, and it is then ready for use. 9.—GERMAN PASTE, for fruit tarts. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour ii lb. ... Dry and put in a large basin. 2... Make a hole in the middle. 4... Yeast Warm milk ... 3 table spoonsful i pint ... ) Mix together and then work in part j of the flour in the basin. 5- Cover the basin, and let it stand near the fire to rise. 6... Butter Jib. ... Melt over the fire. 7... Egg 1 Beat and add to the butter. 8... Salt A pinch ... Add. 9... Mix with the dough and knead well. 10... Milk Add a little if required in working the paste. 11... Roll it out. 12... Butter Butter a shallow baking dish, and put the paste on it. 13... Fruit Put on a thick layer of fruit. 14... Let the tart stand for a time. 15... Bake in a hot oven. 16... Powdered sugar Sprinkle over and serve. Note.—Cherries, plums of all kinds, and apples are the fruits usually employed for these tarts. Cherries are put on whole close together; plums are halved and stoned, and put on edgeways; apples are peeled, cored, and cut as for a tart, and also put on the paste edgeways,MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 278 10—GERMAN PASTE, without yeast. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour 1 lb. ... Put in a large basin. 2... Butter \ lb. ... Work into the flour. 3- Powdered \ lb. ... Add by degrees and work in. sugar 4... Eggs 2 Beat and add, and mix well. 5-" Roll out the paste and use for open fruit tarts. ll.-PLAIN YEAST PASTE. Order. Ingredients. | Quantities. Method. I... Mik fpint ... Make it luke-warm. 2... Butter 2 OZ. Add. 3- Sugar \ cupful Add. 4... Yeast 1 table Add. spoonful 5- Egg 1 Add. 6... Flour Work flour into these until you have a good paste. 7... Cover with a cloth and put it aside to rise. 8... When risen roll it out thin and use for open fruit tarts. 12-PASTE FOR CUSTARDS. 1. Rub 6 oz. of butter into \ lb. of flour. 2. Mix it into a paste with 2 beaten eggs and 3 table spoonsful of cream. 3. Let it stand \ hour. 4. Work it up and roll it out very thin for use. 13.-TO GLAZE PASTRY. To glaze meat pies beat up the yolk of an egg only, or the yolk and white together if a lighter colour be desired, and brush over the paste with a paste brush before baking.PASTRY. 279 14.-TO ICE PASTRY. Moisten the paste before baking with cold water, and sprinkle finely powdered sugar over it. Another way is to take the tart from the oven when nearly baked, brush it with frothed white of egg, sprinkle sifted sugar over it and a few drops of cold water, and put it back in the oven for a minute or two to set. 15—GAME PIE. Drder. Ingredients. Quantities. I... Game 2... 3- Salt 4... Pepper 5- Pounded f mace 6... Allspice J 7- Veal A few thin slices 8... Forcemeat ... ... ... 9... 10... Truffles If liked ... 11... Bacon or ham Thin slices 12... Paste 13... 14... 15... Yolk of egg ... 1 16... 17... Gravy 18... 19... 20... Method. Any kind of game can be used. Bone the birds, and stuff them with forcemeat. j Mix together, and season the birds ( well with the mixture* Season and put in the buttered mould. Put a layer over the veal. Put in the birds, and fill up all the spaces with forcemeat. Chop and add to fill the corners. Put over the top. Make a good paste to cover the pie. Wet the edges of the mould, put on the cover, and pinch the edges together. Decorate the top with leaves. Brush over the top. Bake in a moderate oven 4 hours. Make a good strong gravy from the bones. When the pie is cooked make a hole in the top, and pour in a little gravy. It must be strong enough to form a firm jelly when cold. Cover the hole with a leaf of paste. Serve cold. Note. —Mushrooms can be added, if liked, and the fleshy parts of the birds can be larded. Poultry can be used for the pie as well as game.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 28o 16—FORCEMEAT FOR GAME PIE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities Method. Veal Butter Chopped parsley Chopped thyme Salt Grated lemon peel Nutmeg Cayenne Mace Bread crumbs Yolk of egg . Livers of bird Mushrooms . Butter Bacon 6 oz. 2 oz. i tea spoonful h tea spoonful i tea spoonful | tea spoonful i pinch ... i pinch ... i pinch ... If liked .. i§ oz. 2 OZ. 2 Take off all skin and fat, and cut in dice. Melt in a saucepan. Put into saucepan. Add. Add. Add. Add. Add. Add. Put in the veal, and stew very gently for 12 or 15 minutes, then take out the veal. Put in the saucepan. Let them absorb all the gravy, and stir till quite dry. Beat and add to the bread crumbs, while hot. Put aside the mixture to cool. Boil separately or stew with the veal. Chop and stew with the veal. Mince the veal very fine. Pound together the veal, livers and mushrooms. Add the bread when cold, and beat well. Add and beat in. Rasp and add. Beat up and add to the mixture. Take the forcemeat out of the morlar, and set it aside to cool.281 PASTRY. 17.—PASTE FOR GAME PIE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. T... lrlour 1 ib. ... 2... Butter lib. ... 3- Salt h, tea spoonful 4... Yolks of eggs 2 5- Water \ pint ... G... Method. Dry it well. Work into the flour. Add. Beat up. Mix with the beaten up eggs. Add gradually to the flour and butter, and work into a good paste. 18.-PIGEON PIE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Paste Lay a rim round the sides and edge of a pie-dish. 2... Salt, pepper... Sprinkle over the bottom. 3- Rump steak ... i lb. thin Put in the dish. 4... Pigeons 3 Pick and draw, wash clean, cut off the feet and press the legs to the sides. 5— Butter, salt, Put in the inside of each pigeon. and pepper 6... Lay them in the dish with their breasts upwards, and the necks and gizzards between them. 7... 8... Salt, pepper ... Sprinkle over. Stock or water 1 wine glass Pour over. 9... Paste Lay thin over the top, and with a brush wet it all over. 10... Puff paste ... \ inch Put it at the top, cut it close to the thick dish. 11... Beaten egg ... 1 yolk ... Brush over the top. 12... Ornament the top. 13... Bake it. 14... Good gravy ... Pour in when done.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 232 19.-LARK PIE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3 Larks Veal stuffing 12 Pick and draw. Fill the inside of each bird. See the receipt for Pigeon Pie for the remaining operations. 20.—CHICKEN PIE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... g... 10... 11... Chickens ... Salt, cayenne, mace, and nutmeg Sausage meat, or forcemeat Hard boiled eggs Minced herbs Water or broth Paste 2 1 lb. ... 2 or 3 ... 2 tea spoonsful { pint ... Cut into joints, skin and take out the bones. ] Mix together and sprinkle over the j joints. [ Put a layer at the bottom of a pie \ dish. Put in the joints of chicken. Add another layer of sausage meat or forcemeat. Cut in slices and place amongst the meat. Add if liked. Fill the dish with alternate layers of chicken and forcemeat. Moisten with water, or with broth made by boiling down the bones, &c, of the chickens. Cover with paste and bake 2 hours. Glaze and serve hot or cold. 21—RABBIT PIE. This is made in the same way as chicken pie. A few chopped eschalots may be added, if liked. If the crust browns too quickly it should be covered with a sheet of white paper.283 PASTRY. 22.-VEAL AND HAM PIE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Veal lilb. ... -—■— ■ ■ _ Cut in small slices. 2... Ham 1 lb. ... Put a layer at the bottom of a pie dish. 3- Pepper, salt, spice Sweet herbs... j Mix and sprinkle over the meat. 4... If liked ... Chop fine and add. 5- Put alternate layers of ham and veal until the dish is three parts full. 6... Water Paste 4 Beat very slightly. 7... 8... A tea Add to the eggs and pour the mixture into the dish. Cover with paste and bake 1 hour. 9... Stand the dish on the top of the oven for 2 hours longer, that the meat may simmer gently and become very tender. 10... Cover the paste with paper if it browns too quickly. 11... Glaze and serve hot or cold. 23. -RUMP STEAK PIE. Ord.r. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rump steak... 2 lbs. ... Take off the skin and nearly all the fat, and beat with the roller. 2... Cut it in nice pieces. 3- Salt, pepper, Mix and sprinkle over the pieces of cayenne meat. 4... Lay them in a pie dish. 5- Mutton 2 or 3 if Skin, cut in pieces and add. kidneys liked 6... Mushrooms ... 1 dozen Add. small 7... Eschalots A few Chop and add, if liked. 8... Water or stock 1 tea Add. cupful 9... Paste Cover with paste, glaze and bake for i| hours. Note.-—Bearded oysters may be used in place of the kidneys, and their liquor added to the gravy. The eschalots should then be omitted.284 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 24.-MUTTON PIE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7-" 8... Small loin of mutton Mutton kidneys Salt, pepper, and cayenne Sweet herbs... Eschalots v_/Oia w itvCr ... Paste 2 lbs. 2 or 3 ... 3 tea spoonsful minced 2 or 3 minced 1 wine glass Take off all the fat, and divide the joint into neat cutlets. Skin, cut in pieces, and add. Mix together, and sprinkle over the cutlets. Put the cutlets and kidneys in a pie dish with all the seasoning that is left. Add a little to make the gravy. Cover the dish, make a hole in the centre, glaze and bake 2 hours. 25.-PORK PIE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... g... TO... II... Pork Salt, pepper... Cayenne Chopped sage Flour Lard Milk Water 3 lbs. ... To taste A pinch... 1 tea spoonful 1 lb. ... 5 oz. h tea cupful J tea cupful Cut in small pieces quite free from bone and skin. Mix together, omitting the sage if > not liked, and sprinkle over the 1 meat. j Work part of the lard into the f flour. ) Put on the fire, add the rest of the | lard, and boil 10 minutes. Pour this boiling on the flour and knead till quite smooth. Keep it warm all the time. Shape the raised mould with the hands round a warm jam pot.PASTRY. PORK PIES—(continued). Order. Ingredients. 1 Quantities. Method. 12... Take out the jam pot and fill the pie with the meat. I3... Water A few Add. spoonsful 14... Put on the paste cover, close the edges and trim them. 15... Bake in a slow oven. 26.-COENI8H MJT! AT PASTTF.S Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Good dripping See receipt No. paste Roll it out and cut in large rounds. 2... 3- Mutton or Ijlb. Cut in small pieces and put a layer beef on one-half of each round. 4- Potatoes ii lb. ... Wash and peel, cut in thin slices, and mix with the meat. 5- Pepper, salt... Sprinkle over. 6... Fold the paste over the meat, wet the edges and press them together. 7... Bake and serve hot. 27.—SAUSAGE ROLLS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Sausage meat I±lb. ... Form into nicely shaped rolls. 2... Puff paste ... Fold each roll in paste. 3- Yolk of egg ... I Beat and wash the rolls over. 4... Bake in a moderate oven.286 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 28.-MEAT ROLLS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. J.... 2... 3- 4- 5- 6... 7— 8... g... 10... Puff paste ... Cold fowl or veal Cayenne, salt Butter Forcemeat ... Water A small quantity i lb. ... h the weight Make as already described. Mince and pound. Add. Add and pound to a smooth paste. Make as described at page 272. Make the forcemeat into small rolls. Use a little to moisten the pounded meat. Wrap each forcemeat roll round with pounded meat till a good size. Fold each roll in puff paste. Bake for 20 minutes. 29. -OYSTER PATTIES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4- 5- 6... g... 10... ii... 12... Puff paste ... Oysters Butter Flour Salt Mace Cayenne Cream Liquor of oysters 2 doz. ... I oz. 1 tea spoonful 2 or 3 tea spoonsful Prepare the patties as described at 30, page 287. Trim and beard them; if large, cut them. ( Mix together very smooth over a slow fire, and simmer gently. 1 Add. i Add gradually and boil. Strain and add. Put in the oysters and keep at boiling point for 2 minutes. Put this mixture in the patties. Put on the covers and serve. Note.—The white meat of cold fowls, turkeys, and pheasants, or veal minced and heated in Bechamel sauce can be used for patties; other kinds of cold roast game are heated in Sauce Espagnole or good brown gravy.PASTRY. 287 30—SMALL VOLS-AU-VENT. Ingredients. Quantities, Puff paste Make the paste very light, and roll out \ inch thick. With one tin cut out the number required. Take a smaller tin, wet the edge and take out the paste from the centre of each patty. Cover with this paste and bake about 12 minutes. When done, remove the tops with a knife. Scoop out the crumb from the inside of the patties. Fill the patties with oysters, lobster, or chicken, dressed with white sauce. Put on the covers and serve hot. 31.-FRUIT TARTS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Red currants and rasp- berries, or cherries, or gooseberries Pick, clean, and put into a pie-dish with moist sugar. Wet the edge of the dish. Place a band of puff-paste round it, and wet that too. Cover the top with puff paste, pressing it round the edge with your thumbs. Cut off the over hanging paste close to the edge. Make nicks in the paste all round the edge with the blunt side of a knife. Ice with beaten white of egg, if liked, and ornament the top. Note.—Inexperienced cooks should not ice their tarts, as it requires great skill in regulating the oven to prevent them burning when iced.288 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 32.—RHUBARB TART. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rhubarb Cut off the leaves, strip off the out- stalks side skin, and cut the sticks into ^ inch lengths. 2.,, See preceding receipt for the remain- ing operations. 33—CRANBERRY TART. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cranberries ... i quart ... Pick them well, and put them into a stewpan. 2... Water 1 pint ... Add. 3- Moist sugar ... 1 lb. ... Add. 4... Stew gently until they are soft. ts... Mash with a silver spoon. 6... Turn into a pie dish to get cold. •7... For remaining operations see receipt for Fruit Tarts. 34.—APPLE TART. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter Rub a pie dish over. 2... Cooking Pare and cut into small pieces. apples 3- Put them into a pie dish and fill it. 4... Moist sugar... i'ib. ... Add. 5-" Cloves 3 or 4 ... Add if liked. 6... Grated lemon 1 lemon peel | Add. 7... Water 1 wine glass ... 8... Cover with paste as directe 1 in receipt for Fruit Tarts.PASTRY. 289 35.-MINCE PIES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter and lay a thin paste over your pattipans. 2... Fill them with mincemeat. 3--- ... Lay on a covering of paste and trim nicely round the edge. 36.—MINCEMEAT. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 3 lbs. ... Chop fine. 2... Stoned raisins 2 lbs. Do. 3— Currants 2 lbs. ... Picked, washed, rubbed, and dried at the fire. 4... Good apples... 50 Pare, core, and chop fine. 5- Powered i lb. ... sugar 6... Mace 1 oz. 7... Cloves i oz. If liked. 8... Grated nut- 2 9... meg Put all together in an earthen pan. 10... Brandy \ pint ... Add. 11... Mix up well with a wooden spoon and it will keep good for months. 12... Candied citron Add to each pie when you bake it, and orange but do not put any in the mince- meat till you use it. 37.—TARTLETS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rich puff paste- Butter your patty pans and lay a thin layer of paste upon them. 2... Preserve Fill the hollow with any preserve you please. 3 • Trim the edges of the paste and bake lightly. 4- ... Serve them hot or cold. uMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 29° 38.-JAM SANDWICHES. Ingredients. Puff paste Butter Preserve Quantities. Method. Make, as in receipt 2, and roll out thin. Rub on a tin. Lay half the paste on the tin. Put a layer of any kind of preserve on the paste. Cover the preserve with the remainder of the paste. Press the edges togethei, then press slightly all over. Mark it in equal divisions. Bake 20 minutes in a moderate oven. Break in neat oblong sandwiches at the marks, and serve with powdered sugar on the top. 39.—APPLE TART, German recipe. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Apples I lb. ... Peel, core, and cut them in slices, and put them in a saucepan. 2... Pounded sugar 4 oz. Add. 3— Sherry 1 wine glass Add. 4... Water 2 wine glasses Add and stew gently till nearly tender. 5- Raisins 4 oz. Stone, cut in quarters and add. 6... Almonds 4 oz. Chop fine and add. 7... 8... Lemon juice If liked ... Add. Candied peel 2 oz. Add in small pieces. 9... Nutmeg Grate a Jittle over. 10... Lemon peel ... If liked ... Grate and add. 11... Mix well. 12... Puff paste ... Line a shallow buttered dish. 13... Put in the apple mixture. 14... Cover with paste, close and trim the edges. 15... White of egg 1 Ice the top. 16... Bake in a slow oven f hour,PASTRY. 40—FRENCH TART. Order. , Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Puff paste ... Make a rich pun paste, and roll it out very thin. 2... ... ... Cut it in from 6 to 9 pieces of equal size. 3- Bake them all divided from each other. 4... ... When done, take them out, and let them get cold. 1 reserve Spread a layer of a different kind on each piece of paste. 6... Pile them up one above another. 7- Trim the edges with a knife. 8... White of egg I Beat to a froth. g... Pounded sugar 2 OZ. Add gradully and beat in. 10... Lemon juice i lemon... Add and beat all together for 4 hour. ii... Garnish the tart with the whipped froth. 12... Preserved Use to ornament the tart. fruits 13- Dry in a warm oven. 41-WINDSOR PASTRY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Eggs 2 Weigh and set aside. 2... Pounded \ sugar ( Same weight of 3--- 4... Butter ( Flour j each as the eggs 5--- Beat the butter to a cream. 6... Dredge, in the flour and sugar, and stir well. 7... 8... Salt A pinch... Add. Beat up the eggs and add. 9... Beat the whole for 10 minutes. 10... Butter Rub over a shallow baking tin. u 2MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. zgz WINDSOR PASTRY—(continued), Order, Ingredients. Quantities. Meihod. 12.., 13... 14., Compote of fruit Cream i pint Put in the paste, and bake for 20 minutes in a moderate oven. When done let it get cold. Put a layer of any nice compote on the pastry. Pour over and serve. 42.-MILK PANCAKES. Order I... 2... 3"! 4... 6... 7- Ingiedients. Quantities. Method. Eggs Milk Salt Flour Boiling fat Lemon and sugar 3 1 pint .. 1 pinch .. Beat well. Add to the eggs and stir. Add. Add enough to make a thick smooth batter. Fry the pancakes. Turn skilfully. Serve with the pancakes, which should be very hot. 43.—DAMPFNUDELN, or Steamed Dumplings Order. Ingredient!. Quantities. Method. 9.. IO.. Flour Yeast Warm Eggs Butter Milk Butter milk 2J pints... 1 table spoonful 1 tea cupful 3 3 oz. ... 1 tea cupful 1 oz. Put in a basin and make a hole in the centre. ) Mix a portion of the flour with these j and let it stand. Beat up. Clarify and mix with the eggs. Work well into the dough. Form the dough into small dumplings and put them aside to rise. Warm in a deep earthen pan. Add to the milk. When hot put in the dumplings near together, but not touching.PASTRY. DAMPFNUDELN, or Steamed Dumplings—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. II... 12... T ■} I4... Powdered sugar Put on a well fitting cover. Put hot coals on the cover. Steam for £ hour. Sprinkle over and serve very hot with thin custard, or with stewed fruit. 44—APPLE FRITTERS, French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3" 4... Apples Powdered sugar Grated lemon peel Brandy 8 1 lb. ... 1 1 wine glass Peel, take out the core and cut into thin slices. ! Pour over the apples and let them j soak. j 45.—BATTER for above. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... Fine flour ... Warm water Brandy 00 2 table spoonsful 1 table spoonful 1 Put into a basin. Pour in drop by drop, mixing with a wooden spoon. Make a hole in the middle of this thick paste. Pour into the hole and mix it in the paste. Beat the white and yolk separately, and mix it in the paste as you did the brandy.294 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 12... Serve hot or cold. EATTER for above—(continued). Ingredients. (Quantities. Method. 10... Salt I pinch ... Add. t II... Stir till you have a thick smooth batter. 12... Butter or lard Melt in a frying-pan over a gentle fire till it is a good colour. 13... Take a slice of apple, dip it in the batter, then in the boiling fat, move the pan all the time. 14... Turn the fritter with the skimmer and let it fry a nice brown. 15... Make all the fritters in the same way, drain, and serve them up hot. 46.-FRIED PASTRY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour lib. ... Sift and put on the paste board, and make a hole in the middle. 2... Salt A pinch... Butter i lb- ... Work the butter to a cream, with 4... Brandy 1 spoonful (■ the other ingredients, and put all 5 — Orange flower water 1 spoonful J in the hole in the flour. 6... Cream Use enough to make the whole into a good paste; work it well and let it stand 3 hours. 7... Roll the paste out thin. 8... Cut it in small pieces of different shapes. 9... Fry them a nice brown in butter. 10... Sifted sugar... 11... Powdered cinnamon | Mix and sprinkle over them.PUDDINGS. SECTION XIV.—PUDDINGS. l.-PUDDINGS. When you boil your puddings take particular care that your cloth be clean, and remember to dip it in boiling water; flour it well and give it a shake before you put your pudding into it. If it be a bread pudding, tie it loose, but tie it tight if it be a batter pudding. If you boil it in a basin, butter the basin and boil the pudding in plenty of water. Turn it often and do not cover the pan; when it is done enough take it up in the basin and let it stand a few minutes to cool. Then untie the string, wrap the cloth round the basin, lay your dish over it, and turn the pudding out. 2—BEEF-STEAK PUDDING. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Beef-steak Flour Pepper and salt Suet paste ,. i£ lb. Cut into small pieces and leave a very little fat. Sprinkle over each piece. Do. Line a pudding basin \ inch thick, first buttering your basin. Fill with pieces of beef. Put a thick crust at the top and tie it up in a cloth. Put it in the saucepan when the water boils, and boil 3 hours. 3. -YORKSHIRE PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. I... Fine flour .., 4 table spoonsful 2... Eggs 4 3- Salt 1 pinch ... 4... Milk 1 pint ... 5- Butter 6... 7- Method. Beat up together for 15 minutes. Add and mix well. Rub over a dripping pan. Either let it cook under a joint while it is roasting, or bake in the oven. When it is brown cut it into square pieces and serve.296 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 4-PLUM PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4- 5— 6... 7- 8... g... IO... ii 12... Suet Currants Raisins Yolks of eggs Whites of eggs Nutmeg Bread crumbs Orange peel and citron Brandy- Milk lib. ... do. do. 8 4 h fib. ... ilb. ... i wine glass i pint ... Chop but not too fine. Wash clean. Stone. Beat well. Do. Grate. Chop. Mix all the dry ingredients together, then add the milk, beaten eggs and brandy. When the ingredients are well blended, put the pudding into a mould, tie a floured cloth over and boil it 6 hours. 5.—BAKED PLUM PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5--- 6... 7- 8... Q... IO... Flour Beef suet Sultanas Salt Nutmeg Eggs Milk | lb. ... £ lb. i lb. ... A pinch... 1 tea spoonful 3 A little ... 1 Chop the suet fine, and mix f all together. Add. Grate and add. Beat and add. Add as required, to moisten the pudding. Stir well, and pour into a buttered pie dish. Bake ij hours. Turn it out of the dish before serving. Note—A little candied peel can be added if liked.PUDDINGS. 297 G—BREAD PUDDING. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Pieces of bread Boiling milk or water Moist sugar .. Nutmeg Grated lemon peel Raisins or currants 3 oz. ... To taste 1 lemon... £ lb. ... Take crumb or crust, cut it into very small pieces, and soak in btiiing milk or water. Drain and beat smooth. } Add and mix well together. I J Beat well and add. Bake or boil in a buttered pie dish or basin. 7-FRUIT PUDDINGS. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Suet paste .. Apples, gooseberries currants, &c &c. Sugar To taste Line a well buttered basin. Bill the basin. Add. Moisten the edges of the paste, and cover the top. Press it well together, and trim the edges. Tie up in a floured cloth. Put it into boiling water. See receipt for Puddings in general. 8—BAKED APPLE PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Large apples 6 Peel and take out the core. 2... Sugar and Fill up the hollow centres. butter 3- Place them in a pie dish. 4... Batter Cover with light batter and bake.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 9.—APPLE DUMPLINGS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 3- 4... Apples Good. paste ... Melted butter 10- ... GOOSE] Pare, take out the core and fill ths hole with sugar. Cover the apple. Tie in a cloth and boil f hour. Pour over, if liked, when you serve them. BERRY FOOL. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... Green goose- berries Sugar Butter Beaten eggs... Note.—4 02. of Ma n.-r I pint ... £lb. ... £ lb. ... 4 caroni biscuit iOLY-PO Scald in water till soft. Put them into a sieve to drain, and when cold work them through Willi <X WWUvll oULUJli. [Add and beat all together 15 j minutes. Pour into a pie dish and bake § hour, s are a delicious addition to this dich. LY PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2. . 3- 4... Suet crust ... Any preserve Roll out rather thin. Spread over the paste, leaving a small margin of paste. Roll it round, and tie in a floured cloth. Put it in boiling water and boil 2 hours.PUDDINGS. 12.—BAKED ROLY-POLY PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 3- 4... 5 Good short crust Treacle Bread crumbs Currants | pint ... \ lb. ... i lb. ... Roll out thin. Put on a layer. Add a layer on the treacle. Wash, dry, and add over the rest. Roll up the pudding and bake. 13—BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5-- 6... Thin slices of bread and butter Cold milk ... Powdered sugar Beaten eggs... Currants ll pint ... 4 table spoonsful 3 | lb. ... Put into a deep pie dish and half fill it. | > Mix all together* Pour into the dish over the bread and butter, and bake in a quick oven. Sprinkle over the top if liked. 14.—BREAD AND CHEESE PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7 8... 9... Bread crumbs Boiling milk... Grated cheese Pepper and salt Egg Butter i large cupful £ pint ... 3 oz. ... 1 I oz. Choose stale bread and crumble fine. Pour over the crumbs and let them soak. Beat up the crumbs with a fork. Mix with the crumbs. Add. Beat up and add to the crumbs, etc, Put the mixture in a small pie dish. Clarify and pour over. Bake in a moderate oven and serva very hot.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 300 15.—BREAD AND BUTTER SOUFFLE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Bread, and ) 2 thin ( Butter the slices of bread and put 2... Butter ' ) slices [ one at the bottom of a pie dish. 3 — Jam Put a layer on the slice of bread and butter. 4... Put on the other slice of bread. 5- Milk ... 1 pint ... Put in a basin. 6... Powdered sugar 2 oz. Add. 7... Eggs 2 Beat and add to the milk. 8... Pour the mixture over the bread and butter, and bake in a moderate oven. 9... When the pudding has risen like a souffle, serve at once very hot. 16,—BOMBAY PUDDING. Ingredients. | Quantities. Method. Stale bread ... Stewedfrv.it... Custard 1 quart - 1 pint Cut in slices about \ inch thick with- out any crust.- Put a round piece of bread at the bottom of a pudding basin, and line the sides of the basin with fingers of bread placed clo?e together. Stew the fruit, any summer fruit will do, with sugar, and pour it hot on to the bread, till the basin is full. Cover the fruit with large slices of bread, fitting the basin. Put a plate on the top with a weight to keep it down. When perfectly cold, turn the pudding on to a dish. Pour over and serve. Note.—This pudding should he made the day before it is eaten. Raspberries, currants, cherries, plums, damsons, and greengages are the best fruits to use.PUDDINGS. 301 17.-CARTHUSIAN DUMPLINGS. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Stale rolls .. Milk Beaten eggs.. Grated crumb Butter Powdered sugar Powdered cinnamon 4 i pint .. 2 i'lb. If liked .. Grate off all the crust and cut them in pieces about the size of an egg. ) Mix and put the pieces of roll in to f soak. When well soaked drain for a few minutes. Roll all the pieces of bread in. Heat in a frying pan. Fry the dumplings a light brown. Pile them on a hot dish. Mix and sprinkle over the dumplings. Serve with sweet sauce, or with stewed fruit or custard, 18—GOLDEN FINGERS. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Stale Rolls Milk Egg Batter Grated crumbs Butter Powdered sugar 4 pint I Cut them in slices the size of a finger. ) Beat the egg and stir it in with the j milk. Put the fingers in to soak. Make a thick pancake batter. Roll the fingers in batter Sprinkle all over them. Fry the fingers a light brown. Sprinkle over and serve with stewed fruit.3o2 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 19—GERMAN BREAD PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Milk rolls 3 Grate 011 the crust. 2... Mill- 1V111K ... 1 pint Soak the rolls in milk, then scjueeze the milk out. Eggs 3 Beat up. 4... Butter 1 oz. Add. 5-- Beat up the rolls in the eggs, &c. 6... n" L/urrants ... Wash, dry and add. 7... Sugar Add. 8... Cinnamon or Add, and mix all well together. nutmeg 9... Butter Butter a pudding mould. 10... Candied peel Put a nice slice at the bottom of the mould. 11... Raisins A few ... Arrange in a pattern round the peel and on the sides of the mould, 12... Put in the mixture, and cover the top of the mould. 13... Boil or steam for 2 hours. 14... Serve with sweet sauce. 20.—WINDBAGS, German receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter 1 lb. ... Melt in a stewpan. 2... Milk 2 pints ... Add. 3- Salt A pinch... Add. 4... Sugar If liked ... Add to taste, and let the whole boil 5- Flour 1 lb. ... Add gradually, stirring all the time over the fire. 6... When it begins to separate from the sides of the pan, take it off the fire and let it get cool. 7... Eggs 8 Beat up and mix with the batter. 8... Divide the mixture in small portions with a spoon.PUDDINGS. 303 WINDBAGS, German receipt—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. g... 10... 11... Butter Powdered sugar Butter a baking tin and put the little heaps on. Bake a light brown. Sprinkle over and serve very hot. 21.- -RICE PUDDING (1). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 4... 5... 6... 7... Rice Milk Butter Sugar Nutmeg i ib. ... 1 quart ... 20Z. to^lb. ) Boil together and keep stirring that j it may not barn. When it begins to thicken, take it off and let it cool. Stir in. Put in to taste. Grate in. Put your pudding in a buttered pie dish and bake it. 22.- -RICE PUDDING (2). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3 — 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... g... 10... Rice Milk Cinnamon ... Butter Sugar Nutmeg Vanilla, lemon or almond flavouring Eggs \ lb. ... I quart ... 1 stick .. 31b- ::: i 4 | Boil together and keep stirring. When it is boiled thick put it into a basin. Stir in. Add to taste. Grate in. Add to taste. When it is cold, beat up the eggs and add. Pour into a buttered dish and bake. 1304 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. fruit. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, 23.-RICE PUDDING (3). 3- 4— 5- 6... Rice Butter Nutmeg Sugar lb. i lb. To taste 7- §.., Melted butter Tie in a cloth but give it room to swell. Boil i hour, then take it out and untie it. Stir in with a spoon. | Add. Tie it up again close and boil it another hour. Take it up and turn it into a dish. Pour over it. 24.—RICE MOULD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rice i ib. ... Wash and drain. 2... Milk i pint ... Put the rice into a saucepan, add the milk, and put over the fire, stirring ail the time. 3- Salt i pinch ... 4- Powdered sugar jib. ... | Add gradually, still stirring. 5- Butter 2 oz. 6... Flavouring of lemon vanilla, or almond Either ... Add. 7... When it is thick take it off the fire and let it cool. 8... Yolks of eggs 4 Beat and add to the rice. g... Whites of egg^ 4 Beat to a froth and add. 10... Pour the rice thus prepared into a buttered mould, f full. IT.. ... Bake A hour. 12... ... 1 Turn out and serve with custard orPUDDINGS. 25.-RXCE MILK. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rice 4 lb. ... Let it boil in water till swollen. Pour off the water. 3- Milk Fill up gradually with milk. 4- Let the rice simmer slowly, adding milk as required, until it is as smooth as arrowroot. 5- Sugar Sweeten to taste. 6... Almond or If liked ... Add to taste. vanilla flavouring 7- Powdered sugar and | Sprinkle over before serving. cinnamon 26.-RICE CROQUETTES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rice 1 lb. ... Put into a saucepan. 2... Milk Pour over till all is covered, and put the saucepan on the fire. 3— Butter 2 oz. Add when the rice is half boiled. 4... Salt 1 pinch ... 5... Powdered sugar | lb. ... | Do. 6... Mix the whole with a wooden spoon. 7... When the rice has absorbed all the milk, take the saucepan off the fire. 8... Yolks of eggs 6 Beat up. 9... Lemon, Either, to Add to the eggs, and mix well with vanilla, or flavour the rice. almond flavouring Whites of eggs 10... 3 Beat to a froth, and mix it in with the rice. 11... When it is well mixed, make it into balls with a spoon, and let them cool. V306 MYR/VS COOKERY BOOK. RICE CROQUETTES—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Bread crumbs Beaten egg ... Butter Sugar i lb. Dip in the balls of rice. Take the balls out of the crumbs, dip them in the egg, then in the crumbs again. Melt in a frying pan. Put in the balls of rice, and fry them a nice brown, stirring them in the pan all the time. Sprinkle over and serve. 27.-TAPIOCA PUDDING. See receipts for Rice Puddings. 28.—VERMICELLI PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3--- Vermicelli ... Milk Cinnamon ... 4 OZ. i quart ... 1 stick ... Boil till the vermicelli is soft, stir- ring frequently. 4... 5-«- 6... 7... 8... Flavouring ... Butter Sugar Beaten eggs... 2 OZ. 4 oz. 4 Add and stir well together, and let the mixture cool. Beat very light and add. Bake in a buttered pie dish f hour. 29.-SEMOLINA PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Milk pints... Boil. 2... Semolina 1 tea Stir into the boiling milk, and con- cupful tinue stirring over the fire for u minutes. 3--- Put into a mould. 4... Serve cold with baked fiuit or preserve.PUDDINGS. v 2 30.-SAGO AND MACARONI BISCUIT PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 3- 4... 5... a... 7... 8... Sago Milk Beaten eggs... Macaroni biscuits Brandy (if liked) Sugar to taste Wine sauce ... 31.-MA' 2 OZ. I pint ... 4 or 5 ... 4 1b. ... 1 wine glass RMALAI ) Boil together till the sago is quite f tender. > Add to the sago, beat all together. 1 1 J Put all into a buttered basin, and boil | of an hour. Serve with the pudding. )E PUDDING (1). Order. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- a... 7- 8... Ingredients. j Quantities. Method. Bread crumbs Chopped suet Flour Sugar Orange mar- malade Eggs well beaten Milk 3 2.-MA 4 lb. ... 6 oz. 4 oz. ilb. ... 1 lb. ... 3 RMALA" 1 ! V Mix all together. 1 j \ Add and stir into a thick batter. Boil in a buttered mould hours. DE PUDDING (2). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... Beef suet Bread crumbs Powdered sugar Beaten eggs... Milk or cream 3 oz. ... 5 oz. ilb. ... 3 ipint ... Chop fine. Add and mix. | Add. Beat all together 15 minutes. Put a layer in a well-buttered mould or pie dish.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 3o8 MARMALADE PUDDING (2)—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 8., Orange mar- Put a layer on the top, then a layer malade of the mixture, and so on till the mould is full. 9... Bread crumbs Put a layer on the top. 10.., Bake it in a moderate oven if hours, turn out of the mould and serve. 33.-FIG PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Bread crumbs i lb. ... 1 1 2... Chopped figs * lb. ... 3- Moist sugar... Chopped suet 6 oz. } Mix all together. 1 4... jib. ... 5- Flour 2 oz. J 6... Beaten eggs... 2 7... 8... Milk Grated nut- meg i wine glass ! Stir, into the dry ingredients, and j mix well. 9... Press into a buttered mould, tie a floured cloth over, and boil 3 hours. 34.-DATE PUDDING. See preceding receipt, substituting dates for figs. 35.-LEMON PUDDING. See receipt for Marmalade pudding, substituting the grated or chopped rind of 1 lemon for the marmalade. 36.—PRUNE PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Milk i wine Put into a basin. glass 2... Yolks of eggs 4 3- Whites of 2 | Beat up and add to the milk. eggsPUDDINGS. Custard 5... fpint ... Four over and serve. 3°9 PRUNE PUDDING—(continued). Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Flour Salt Powdered ginger Milk Prunes Melted butter 4 table spoonsful 1 pinch ... 2 tea spoonsfu ii pints.. 1 lb. .. ^Add. \ Add gradually. Add. Boil 1 hour tied up in a clo h. Pour over when you serve. Note.—Damscns are very nice cooked like this. 37.—AMBER PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5 — 6... Flour Bread crumbs Chopped suet Sugar Marmalade ... Beaten egg ... lib. ... do. do. do. do. I 1 ! Mix all together; put them in a j buttered basin and boil. J 38.-SFONGE SANDWICHES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Sponge cakes 6 Cut in half lengthways. 2... Strawberry Put a layer on the lower half of each jam sponge cake, and cover with the top half, and arrange them in a glass dish. 3- Sherry If liked ... Pour over to saturate the cakes. 4... Sweet Blanch, cut in slices, and stick into almonds the top of the cakes.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 39.—CABINET PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter Joz. ... Butter the inside of a plain mould. 2... Dried cherries 3 doz. ... Arrange in a pattern all over the buttered mould. 3- Angelica Small slices Arrange amongst the cherries, keeping to one pattern throughout. 4... Sponge cakes i lb. Cut in slices and add. 5- Ratifias k lb. Add. 6... Lump sugar... 3 oz. ... Add. 7... Vanilla Enough to give a good flavour. 8... Thin cream ... f pint ... Heat on the fire. 9... Yolks of eggs 6 Beat well. 10... Whites of eggs 2 Beat and add. 11... Pour the hot cream on to the eggs, beat, and let it stand till quite cool. 12... Brandy or 1 wine Add gradually to the cream and eggs. sherry glassful 13... Pour the mixture slowly into the mould. 14... Cover with buttered paper, and steam the pudding gently one hour. Serve with the pudding. 15... Wine sauce ... 40.-POTATO SOUFFLE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Milk 1 pint ... Boil, then take off the fire and let it cool. 2... Potato flour ... 4 or 5 large spoonsful 1 3/» Powdered 6 oz. sugar Mix together in a large saucepan, stirring well with a wooden spoon. 4... Butttr i£ oz. ... 5 — Yolks cf eggs 4 6... Lemon, vanilla, cr almond flavouring Either ... 7... Add the warm milk by degrees, stir- ring the same way all the time.PUDDINGS. 3U POTATO SOUFFLE— (continned). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 8... Stir and simmer till it thickens. g... Let it stand and cool. IO... Yolks of eggs 4 Beat and add gradually. ii... Whites of 6 Beat up to a froth, then add to the eggs rest. 12... Pour this mixture into a pie dish and bake about 20 minutes. I3... The souffle ought to rise and brown, but not burn. 14... Powdered sugar Sprinkle over and serve. 41.-FOTATO PUDDING. Ingredients. Cold boiled potatoes Butter Milk Sugar Lemon peel., Whites of egs Quantities. Method. J lb. ... Pound in a mortar. \ lb. ... Add. pint ... Add and mix quite smooth. 3 ... Beat up the yolks only. To taste Add. lemon... Grate very fine and add. 3 ... Beat to a froth and add. Mix well with the potatoes, put in a mould, and boil or bake. 42-FRENCH GATEAU. Crder. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Whites of eggs 6 Beat for 20 minutes. 2... Powdered ilb. ... Add gradually while beating. sugar 3- Flour ilb. ... Add. 4... Butter 1 lb. ... Melt in a stewpan over a slow fire.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 3I2 FRENCH GATEAU— (continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5— When the butter is melted and warm, mix it gradually with the whites of eggs stirring the same way all the time. 6... (in n tp ■flr^wpr \Jl CLllf'C liUWCI Ann cfill cfifrlnrr XiUUj otlil bill 1 IIIH* water spoonful 7- 8... Butter Mix the paste quite smooth. Rub over the inside of a mould. g... Powdered sugar Sprinkle over the butter. 10... Put in the paste till the mould is f full. ii... Bake in a moderate oven i£ hour. 43.-BISCUIT PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. ,.. Milk l| pint ... Boil and let it get cool. 2... Stale milk roll 1 ib. ... Break in pieces. 3- Sweet biscuits i ib. ... Add. 4... Macaroons ... A few ... Add. 5- Ratifias A few ... Add, together with any broken bits of sponge cake or pastry. 6... Pour the milk over the broken bits of bread, biscuit, etc., and let them soak in it. 7... 8... Sugar To taste Add. Beat up all the ingredients over a slow fiie, until they form a thick paste. 9... Take them off the fire. 10... Eggs 5 Beat up and add. 11... Butter 2 oz. Add. 12... Sultanas i lb. Add. 13... Currants | lb. ... Wash, dry, and add. 14... Nutmeg Brandy or Grate a little over. 15... 1 wine Add and mix well. rum glassful 16... Put the mixture in a buttered mould and bake.PUDDINGS. 44.-SWISS PASTRY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4- 5- 6... 7- 8... g... Butter Eggs Powdered sugar Flour Butter Powdered sugar \ lb. ... 4 { lb. ... 1 lb. ... Melt on a slow fire. Beat the yolks and whites together. Add to the eggs. Mix the eggs and sugar with the butter. Add gradually and mix well. Spread out the paste in strips 4 inches long. Roll up each piece the size of your thumb. Fry the rolls in butter. Sprinkle over, and serve piled on a folded napkin. 45. -ROMAN PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5".- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 11... 12... 13... Eggs Powdered sugar Potato flour ... Sugar Lemon juice... Lemon peel... Oil 6 2 table spoonsful i oz. 1 02. 1 lemon... \ lemon... Beat the yolks and whites separately. Add a little to each. | Mix together. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth. Add the yolks and continue beating. Add the strained juice. Grate very fine and add. Pour the eggs from a height on to the potato flour, and stir well. Grease a pudding mould. Fill the mould about half full with the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven. When it rises to the top, take it cut of the mould and serve.3H MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 12... Sugar Sprinkle over and serve. 46.-NEW HASTY PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... EgfPfS 3 Beat up the yolks separately. 2... 3- Flour Milk I Add until you have a thick batter. 4... Whites of eggs 3 Beat to a froth. 5- Powdered 1 oz. Add. sugar Grate fine and add. 6... Lemon peel... 1 7... Mix the frothed whites with the batter, and stir quickly. 8... Butter Butter a pie dish, and put in the mixture. 9... Bake in the oven. 10... When it rises like a souffle, serve at once, before it falls. 47—DARIOLES, French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter I oz. Melt on the fire. 2... Flour 2 dessert A.dd by degrees. spoonsful 3- Powdered sugar 3 dessert spoonsful Add. 4... Lemon peel ... £ lemon... Grate fine and add. 5- Candied violets or orange flowers 1 V Chop and add. 6... Yolks of eggs 4 Beat and add. 7... Salt A pinch... Add. 8... Cream \ pint ... Add and mix all well together. 9... Butter Butter a sufficient number cf small moulds. 10... Fill the moulds and bake in the oven. 11... When done take them out of the moulds.PUDDINGS. 3i5 48.—BATTER PUDDING. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Yolks of eggs 3 Beat in a basin. 2... Flour 3 table Add gradually, and mix very smooth. spoonsful 3 •• New milk Add to thin the batter, until it is the consistence of cream. 4... Whites ofegg> 3 Beat up, and add to the batter. 5- Pour into a buttered mould, and bo!l 1 hour. 6... Fiuit sauce ... Serve with it. Note.—Haifa pound of cleaned and dried currants added to the batter will convert it into a black-cap pudding. For the fruit sauce boil a little sugar and water together for a few minutes, then add fresh fruit crushed with a spoon, or the expressed juice only, and boil again for 5 or 6 minutes. 49—CUSTARD PUDDING, baked. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3— 4... 5- 6... Milk Mace, cinna- mon, lemon peel Sugar Yolks of eggs pint ... A little ) ofeach j To taste 3 Put in a saucepan. Add to flavour the milk, and boil up. Add. Let the milk get cold. Beat and add to the strained milk. Pour into a pie dish, and bake in a slow oven. 50.-LEMON PUDDING, baked. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Bread crumbs h lb. ... Grate fine. 2... Beef suet 6 oz. Chop fine and add. 3- Sugar iib. ... Add. 4... Lemon 1 large, Add the grated rind and strained 1^ small juice.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 316 Sprinkle over before serving. 15... Sifted sugar... ... ... LEMON PUDDING, baked—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5- Eggs 3 Beat and add. 6... Milk A little ... Add if required. 7- Mix all well together, and put in a buttered pie dish. 8... ... Bake one hour in a quick oven, if it browns too quickly, cover it with paper. g... When done, turn it out of the dish. IO... Sifted sugar .. Sprinkle over and serve. 51. -CREAM FRITTERS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour i large Put in a saucepan. spoonful 2... Butter i£ oz. ... Melt and add. 3- Powdered 3 spoons- Add. sugar ful 4... Vanilla Add enough to flavour. 5- Salt A pinch... Add and mix well. 6... Eggs 2 Beat up and add, and stir quickly. 7... Milk | pint ... Boil and add gradually, stirring well all the time over a slow fire. 8... When thickened, let it simmer 5 minutes. 9... Yolks of eggs 2 Beat and add. 10... Macaroons ... A few ... Crush and add. 11... Stir over the fire a few minutes, but do not let the mixture boil. 12... When it is a thick cream pour it on to a buttered dish. 13... Let it stand till cold. 14... ... ... Cut in small pieces, dip in batter, and fry a nice colour.CREAMS AND MOULDS. 3i7 SECTION XV.—CREAMS AND MOULDS. mm —~ »i^>8<pjt» ■ l.-BLANC MANGE, French receipt. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Bitter almonds Sweet ditto Cold water .. Powdered sugar Cream Orange flour water Isinglass melted in water oz. lb. 1 spoonful |lb. .., J pint .., 1 tea spoonful 1 oz. Steep in boiling water. Skin and wipe in a clean cloth. Pound them in a mortar to a smooth paste. Add drop by drop to prevent them turning to oil. Add graduall}', stirring the same way all the time. When the whole is well mixed pour into a mould. Put the mould into a refrigerator cr put pounded ice round it. When you want to turn it out, dip the mould into hot water. 2— BLANC MANGE, English receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... New milk ... IJ pint ... 2... Sugar 2 oz. Let them stand for an hour, then 3- Vanilla or To flavour simmer gently until the isinglass lemon is dissolved, stirring frequently. 4... Isinglass I oz.3i8 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. BLANC MANGE, English receipt—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5 6... 7- 8... g... 10.,. Cream Brandy or sherry \ pint ... 2 table spoonsful Take off the scum. Add gradually and stir in. Strain into a mould. Stir occasionally while cooling. Add if liked. Turn it out of the mould before serving. 3.-ARR0WR00T BLANC MANGE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3»- 4... 5... 6... Milk Arrowroot ... Cinnamon ... Sugar i quart ... \ lb. ... To taste To taste I Mix together till quite smooth. Add this or any other flavouring. Add. Boil for 10 minutes stirring all the time. Pour into a mould and let it stand till cold, 4- BAVARIAN CREAM. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... Strawberries Sifted sugar... New milk Isinglass Sugar i quart ... \ lb. ... 1 pint ... 2 oz. To taste Pick and crush with a silver spoon. Sprinkle over and let them stand a few hours. Rub them through a hair sieve. Put in a saucepan. Add. Add; put the saucepan on the fire to melt the isinglass.CREAMS AND MOULDS. 3*9 BAVARIAN CREAM—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 7... 8... g... 10... 11... Note. Apricot Cream Lemon juice —Good new milk or other jam can be 5.- i pint ... 1 lemon may be used used in place -CARATS When quite dissolved strain the milk through muslin. Add and stir till the mixture is nearly cold. Pour it on to the strawberries and mix them well together. Strain and add, if liked, drop by drop. Pour into the mould, and let it cool in a refrigerator. in place of cream if this is not obtainable, of the fresh fruit. :el cream. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 11... Sugar Water Milk ... Sugar Yolks of eggs White of egg 2 oz. i table spoonful f pint ... i lb. ... 3 1 1 Put both on the fire till the sugar is t a light caramel brown. Take the saucepan off the fire. j- Boil in another saucepan. Pour gradually on to the caramel, stirring all the time. ) Beat and add gradually to the > cream, stirring the same way all ) the time. Pour into a basin or mould, which you place in a stewpan half full of boiling water. Let it set thus for about £ hour. When it is of firm consistence it is done. 6.—CARAMEL MOULD. See preceding receipt, add melted isinglass, and pour into a mould. Put the mould into a refrigerator, or put pounded ice round it. When you want to turn it out, dip it in hot water, put the dish upside down on the top, then turn the mould out upon it.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 320 7.-C0FFEE CREAM. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Milk or cream Essence of coffee or very strong coffee Powdered Yolks of eggs White of do. i pint .. 3 spoons- ful or 5 Boil 15 minutes in a saucepan. Add when the milk boils. Add, stirring all the time. Take the saucepan off the fire. I Beat up and pour gradually into the f saucepan, stirring all the time. Put the saucepan on the fire again till the cream begins to thicken. Pour into a dish or custard cups, and place them in a stewpan half full of boiling water. Let the water boil till the cream is of the right consistence. Let it get cold before you serve. 8.—CHOCOLATE MOULD. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cream or milk I pint ... Boil, then take the saucepan off the fire. | Beat up together in a basin. Mix the whole together gradually with a spoon. Put back the saucepan on a gentle fire and stir all the time till the cream thickens, then take it off the fire again. \ Melt in another saucepan over the | fire. j- Melt in another saucepan. When the isinglass is melted pour it gradually into the chocolate. 2 .. 3- 4... 5... 6... 7 ■•• 9... 10... Yolks of eggs Powdered sugar Chocolate ... Water Isinglass WTater 6 Jib. ... \ lb. ... ipint ... 1 oz. \ pint ...CREAMS AND MOULDS. CHOCOLATE MOULD—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. II... 12... J I4... Add the cream, &c, gradually, stir- ring all the time. Pour into a mould. Place the mould in a refrigerator or put pounded ice round it. When you wish to turn it out, dip the mould into hot water, put the dish upside down on the top of it and turn it out quickly. 9—ECONOMICAL CREAM. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... Potato flour Yolks of eggs Boiled milk ... Powdered sugar Orange flower water i large spoonful 3 1 pint ... 1 ib. ... To taste Put in a basin. Mix with the flour. Add gradually stirring all the time, and mix thoroughly. Add in the same way. Add. Put in a mould, place this on the fire and stir continually for 5 minutes. Take the dish off the fire. Let it get cool before serving. 10.-WHIPPED CREAM, a la Chantilly. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- Thick cream Gum dragon Powdered sugar i£ pint ... A pinch \ lb. ... Put in a cool place or surround with ice. Powder fine and add. Add. wMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 323 WHIPPED CREAM, a la Chantilly—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... 5... 6... 7... Note. fruit. Flavouring ... ^A/hitf* r>f p&& —This cream is us 11. If liked... I ,,, ed for mering -VANIL Vanilla, lemon, or orange. Whip until the cream is frothed. Put on a hair sieve for the milk to drain off. Beat to a froth, if the cream is not firm enough, and add. ues, trifles, and for ornamenting compotes of LA CREAM. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... O... 9... id.., Milk Sugar Vanilla Yolks of eggs Whites of eggs ... 1! i£ pint ... 6 oz. 1 stick ... 5 2 Boil in a saucepan. Add. Add and boil together \ hour. Take the milk off the fire, and take out the vanilla. | Beat up together in basin. Add the boiled milk gradually, stirring all the time. Put Jnfri 0 rnnnlrl or\A nut fViie in 0 saucepan half-full of boiling water. Leave it on the fire about \ hour. Turn the cream out when it is cold. [E CREAM. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5— Boiling water Isinglass Milk Cream Sugar £ cupful... \ OZ. \ pint ... $ pint ... To taste ) Steep the isinglass in the water j until dissolved. Put in a saucepan. Add. Add.323 CREAMS AND MOULDS. STONE CREAM—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method, 6... Add the strained isinglass. 7... 8... Put it on the fire, and when it begin"; to boil pour into a basin. Stir till it is nearly cold. 9... Preserve Any good kind Place at the bottom of a glass dish. 10... Pour the cream over and let it stand till cold. II... Sweet almonds Blanch and cut in slices, and stick over the top of the cream. 13.-LEMON CREAM. Ingredients. Cream Lemon peel ... Gelatine Sugar Yolks of eggs Lemons Quantities. ij pint . 1 lemon. 2 oz. i'ib. \ Method. Put in an enamelled saucepan. Add. Add. Boil gently for 10 minutes and strain. Add. Beat and add. Put the basin containing the mixture in a saucepan half full of boiling water. Stir constantly, and do not let it boil. Take it off the fire, and stir till the cream is nearly cold. Strain the juice through a sieve, and mix with the cream. Stir quickly, and pour into an oiled mould. V/hen cold, turn it out in the usual way. w 2i 3-4 14. WINE CREAM. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... White wine ... I pint ... Put in a saucepan. 2... Sugar 6 oz. Add. 3— Lemon peel Add to flavour, and boil gently. or cinnamon 4... Yolks of eggs 7 or 8 ... Beat up in a basin. 5- Pour the wine gradually on to the eggs, and stir well. 6... Strain the mixture into a mould, and set as usual in a saucepan of boiling water. 7— Serve cold. 15.-FRUIT CREAM, Order. In redients ngre len s. Quantities. Method. I... Fresh fruit ... I lb. ... Choose strawberries, raspberries, or currants; pick them. 2... Crush, and strain the juice through a sieve. 3- Powdered Jib. ... Add to the juice. sugar Boil the juice in a saucepan. 4... 5- Yolks of eggs 4 Beat up. 6... Take the saucepan off the fire. 7... Pour the eggs gradually in, and stir all the time near the fire, but do not let it boil. 8... Pour it into a dish to cool. Q... Whites of eggs 4 Beat to a froth, and add to the mixture. 16.- COCOA-NUT CREAM. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cocoa-nut ... I Saw it in two, and pour out the milk. 2... Cut the nut in small pieces, free from shell and skin. 3- Syrup i pint ... Make a thin syrup of sugar and water.CREAMS AND MOULDS. 325 COCOA-NUT CREAM—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... 5- 6... 7... 0... 9... Cinnamon, vanilla or lemon Yolks of eggs Crystallized fruits 1 2 or 3 ... 7.-M01S Throw in the pieces of nut, and let them boil 3 hours. Add to flavour the cocoa-nut, if liked. Take the saucepan off the fire. Beat and add gradually, stirring well. Pour into a glass dish, and let it get cool. Garnish with slices of small crystal lized citrons. rT BLANC. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3... 4... 5- 6... No Whites of eggs Powdered sugar Currants Maraschino ... te.—Whites of egg 18.- 6 I lb. ... 4 table spoonsful s left over fro -ORANC Beat to a stiff froth. Add about J oz. to each egg. Clean and add gradually. Put the mixture in the oven to set, V>n* An nrvf 1 <=*f- if V»rr»\x/n ■JUL UU 11UL 1CL 11 UlVJVYil. Put in a glass dish. Pile the frothed eggs on this, and serve. m creams can be utilised in this manner. 3E SPONGE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... Gelatine Water Powdered sugar Oranges Lemon 3 oz. ... | pint ... Jib. 3 1 | Melt together and strain. Add. Squeeze the juice into a cup, Squeeze into the orange juice. Strain and add them to the melted gelatine,MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 326 ORANGE CREAM—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 7- 8... 9" Whip the mixture until it is the consistence of cream. Pour it into a mould, and let it get quite cold. Turn it out, and decorate with pre- served cherries. 19.-ITALIAN SPONGE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Yolks of eggs 12 Put in a saucepan on a moderate fire. 2... Madeira 4 wine glasses Add. 3- Powdered sugar 6 oz. Add. 4... Cinnamon ... A pinch... Add in powder. 5- 6... ••1 ••• Stir quickly on the fire With a chocolate mill, until the froth fills the saucepan. Pour quickly into small cups, and serve at once. 20-CHAKLOTTE RUSSE. Ingredients. Sponge biscuits Yolks of eggs Milk Sugar Vanilla Gelatine Cream Quantities. J lb. .. 5 1 pint .. To taste To taste 1 oz. 1 pint .. Method, Line the inside of a buttered mould, and arrange them at the bottom. Beat and put in a saucepan. Add. Add. Add. Stir on the fire till it boils. Melt in a little hot water. Add to the contents of the saucepan. Whip to a froth. Mix it lightly with the eggs, &c. Put into the mould, and set it on ice until wanted. Turn out of the mould before serving.JELLIES. 327 SECTION XVI.—JELLIES. 1.—CALF'S FOOT JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 11... Calf's feet ... Sherry or Marsala Lump sugar... Lemon juice... Whites of eggs Lemon peel... 4 i bottle... |lb. ... 5 lemons 6 or 8 ... Boil in a gallon of water till it is reduced to a quart. When it is cold, skim off all the fat. Leave what settling there may be at the bottom and put the jelly into a saucepan. j-Add. Beat up with a whisk, tnen put them into the saucepan, stir all well together till it boils, and let it boil a few minutes. Pour through a large flannel bag, and repeat this till it runs clear. Put into a basin after you have cut it as thin as possible. Let the jelly run into the basin and the lemon peel will give it an amber colour and a fine flavour. Fill your glasses or mould. 2.—ORANGE JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... Peel of Seville oranges Peel of China do. Peel of lemons Juice of 3 of each 2 2 2 1 | Pare very thin, and put in a saucepan. Squeeze and strain on to the peel.328 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. ORANGE JELLY— [continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5— 6... 7... 8... 9... Loaf sugar ... Water Isinglass jelly made with 2 oz. of isinglass \ lb. ... 4 Pint ... 1 quart ... | Add to the juice. Boil till it almost candies. Add and boil it up at once. Strain off the jelly and let it stand U settle before it is put in the mould. 3-ISINGLASS JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Gelatine i packet Dissolve in £ pint of cold water. (Nelson s) 2... Hot water ... 1 pint ... 3- Lemon peel .., 5 lemons 4... Stick of cin- 1 small ... namon 5- Cloves 6 Add. 6... Lemon juice... 5 lemons 7... Sherry £ pint ... 8... Powdered Jib. ... lump sugar 9... Whites of 5 When done clarify with the shells eggs and whites, and strain as usual. 4.-FRUIT JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Juice of Omit the sherry from isinglass jelly, oranges, and add the juice you choose, with strawberries, sufficient sugar to sweeten it. cherries, pine-apples, &c, &c. 2... The jelly takes its name from its flavouring. "1329 JELLIES. 5—BLACK-CURRANT JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Currants 10 quarts Strip off the stalks and put them into an earthen pan. 2... Water 1 quart ... Add and set them in a cool oven for 2 hours, with a paper tied over them. 3--- ... ... Squeeze through a hair sieve or very fine cloth into a preserving 4... Loaf sugar ... i£ lbs. to Add and stir gently till the sugar each melts. quart of juice 5... When it boils skim it well. 6... Let it boil pretty quickly over a clear fire for £ hour, then put it into pots. 7... Brandy paper Put over the pots. 6—RED-CURRANT JELLY* Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Currants 10 quarts See preceding receipt and follow it exactly, substituting red currants for black. 7. -FRUIT IN JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Clear stiff Jpint ... Pour into a mould and let it stand calf's foot till it is nearly set and stiff. jelly 2... Fine ripe 3 Lay in the jelly. peaches 3- Bunch of 1 Do. with the stalk upwards. grapesMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 33« FRUIT IN JELLY—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... 5- • it •■•• Let it stand till the next day, then set your mould to the brim in hot water. As soon as you perceive the jelly gives way from the mould, lay your dish over and turn it carefully out. 8.-APRICOT JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Apricots Remove the stones and take off any stained parts of the skin. 2... Sugar Take the same weight as the fruit. 3- Put in the preserving pan. 4... Boil for 15 minutes, stirring all the time and skimming. 5- Strain through a sieve into glass jars. 6... Crack some of the stones and put the kernels on the top of each jar of jelly. 9—MEDLAR JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Medlars Choose them ripe and fit for eating, and put them in the preserving pan. 2... Cold water ... Pour over till they are covered. 3- Boil for 20 minutes. 4... Strain them through a sieve, but without pressing them. 5- Weigh thejuice and put it back in the pan. 6... Sugar Weight of Add. thejuice 7- 8... Lemons Add the rind and strained juice of 1 lemon to every 100 medlars. When the jelly is clear and done, take out the lemon peel and pour into small glass jars. ^ Note.—Medlar Jelly is a delicious preserve, with the colour and flavour of guavaJELLIES. 33* 10.-APPLE JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 11... 12... It Apples Cold water ... Lemon juice Water Lemon juice Crushed sugar Candied peel ote.—A compote c li Small quantity Small quantity f apples can b L.-QUIN Pippins are the best to choose. Wipe them, cut off the stalks', and divide them in two. 1 Mix in a basin and throw the apples j in as you cut them. Drain them and put them in the preserving pan. Add just enough to float them. Add the juice of 2 lemons to every 50 apples. When the apples are soft strain the juice through a sieve without press- ing. Weigh the juice and add the same weight of sugar. Boil in the pan for 15 minutes. Cut in very fine slices and add. Pour the jelly into glass jars, e made with the remainder of the fruit. CE JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I,,. 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7- Quinces Cold water ... Water Sugar ... Choose them very ripe; wipe them, cut them in quarters, and remove the stalks and cores. Throw them in at once. Put them into the preserving pan. Add enough to cover them. When done strain the juice through a sieve. Boil the juice with an equal weight of sugar; quinces take longer to boil than apples. Keep in small glass jars.332 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 12.-WHITE WINE JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Isinglass l| oz. ... Melt in a little water. 2... Sugar | lb. ... Add. 3 White wine ... i£ pint ... Add. 4... Madeira f pint ... Add. 5- Boil and strain through muslin into a mould. 13.-PORT WINE JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3 — 4... 5- 6... 7... Calf's feet ... Lemon juice Sugar Port wine Whites of eggs 4 3 lemons To taste 1 bottle... 6*" ... Boil in water to a jelly and let it cool. Strain and add. Add. Add. Boil with the calf's foot jelly. Beat and add, stir well and let all boil together. Strain through a flannel bag. 14.—ANOTHER WINE JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- C... 7... Isinglass Sherry Sherry Lemon peel ... Nutmeg Sugar Melted isin- glass 1 I OZ. \ pint ... Remainder of bottle 1 lemon A little ... To taste | Melt in the wine on the fire. Put in a saucepan. Cut thin and add. Grate in. Add. Add, boil, and strain into a mould.333 JELLIES. 15—PUNCH JELLY. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Calf's feet . Wine Lemon juice Whites of eggs Water Sugar Arack 4 i pint 3 lemor 4 \ pint ijlb. i pint Boil and prepare as usual. Add to the clarified jelly. Strain and add. Beat and add. ,| Let it boil gently for i hour, stirring frequently. , Strain through a flannel bag. i | Melt the sugar in the water. . Add and mix with the jel7y. ,| Pour into a mould and let it get j cold. 16—JELLY FOR COLD MEATS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Veal 2 lbs. ... Cut in pieces and put in a saucepan. 2... Calf's feet ... 4 Cut in half and add. 3- Shin of beef... 2 lbs. ... Add, free from bone. 4... Water Add hot or cold water to cover the meat. 5 — Salt To taste Add. 6... Let it boil, then skim. 7... Cold water ... 1 tumbler- Pour into the saucepan. ful 8... Sweet herbs... A bunch Add. 9... Onions 4 Stick one with 4 cloves and add. 10... Carrots 4 Cut in slices and add. 11... Leeks and 2 of each Tie together and add. celery 12... Simmer gently for 8 hours. 13... Strain the jelly and let it cool. 14... When cold take off the fat. 15... Put the jelly in a saucepan on the fire. 16... White wine ... \ pint ... Add. 17... Lemon juice 1 lemon Strain and add.334 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, JELLY FOR COLD MEATS—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Salt Whites of eggs' 2 Vinegar and water Cold water ... A little Add if needed. Skim carefully as the scum rises. Beat up with a little water. Stir the boiling jelly vigorously with one hand, and pour in the whites of egg quickly with the other. Dip a clean white cloth in, and fasten it by the corners over a basin. Add when the jelly boils up again. When the whites of eggs are well incorporated pour the jelly slowly through the cloth. Strain 2 or 3 times, if necessary, until the jelly is quite clear. Let it get cold and serve it cut in blocks with boned turkey, or other cold meats. 17.-ASPIC FOR POULTRY. This is made in the same way as the preceding, with the addition of a little more lemon juice. While the jelly is still liquid, truffles, mush- rooms fried in butter, and preserved gherkins are arranged in layers in it, the jelly being allowed to get firm between the layers. 18.-TO CLARIFY JELLY. Simmer the calfs' feet gently for several hours, strain the liquor through a sieve and let it get cold. When cold take off the fat and put the jelly back on the fire, adding to it the strained juice of one lemon ; take off the scum when the jelly begins to boil. Beat up the whites of two or three eggs in a basin with a little water, take the jelly off the fire, stir it quickly with one hand and with the other pour in the beaten whites of egg very suddenly. Put the saucepan back on the fire at once and the moment it begins to boil pour in a glass of cold water and let it boil up again. Strain it at once through the jelly bag, and repeat this two or three times if necessary. If the jelly is not required immediately let it simmer gently on a slow fire, until it is sufficiently reduced without boiling, then pour it into an earthen jar and keep it in a cool place. It will keep good for some time.335 CAKES AND BISCUITS. SECTION XVII.—CAKES AND BISCUITS. - ——-••J=»««=3»» ——— —— l.-RICH CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Currants 34 lbs. ... Wash, rub, and put near the fire to dry. 2... Flour 2 lbs. Dry and sift. Butter 3 lbs. ... 4... Jordan 1 lb. ... Blanch and beat to a paste. almonds 5- Eggs 2 Leave out J the whites. 6... Sugar l^lbs. ... 7... 8... Mace Cinnamon ... i oz. ... do. 9... Nutmegs 10... Ginger £ oz. ... Collect all your ingredients round 11... French 1 pint ... ycu. brandy 12... Orange, lemon, or citron peel To taste 13- Work your butter' to a cream. 14... Put in your sugar and work them well together. 15... Work in your almonds. 16... Add your eggs well beaten. 17... Add your brandy and spices. 18... Shake in your flour by degrees. ig... Put in your currants and pee!. 20... Mix well together all the time. 21... Put it in a buttered tin. 22... Set in a quick oven and 4 hours will bake it.336 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 2.- CITRON CAKE. Crder. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Lemons 1 large or ) Rub the peel off the lemon with 2 small the sugar, and put it into a basin 2... Lump sugar... 2 oz. ' with a little drop of boiling water to dissolve it. 3... j"' Butter 3 oz. A... T Self raising 1 lb. flour or best Genoese flour, if the Rub the butter lightly into the latter it will flour and mix the citron with it. require 1 spoonful of baking powder J 2 ... Reserve the whites, beat up the yolks. 6... Milk 1 runt Add to the dissolved sugar, mixing all well together. 7... Butter your mould and tie paper round to give the cake room to rise. 8... Mix the eggs with the flour. 9... Beat up the reserved whites and stir them in very lightly. 10... Put your cake in the mould and set it in the oven immediately. II... Bake from 1 to i\ hours. 3.-POUND CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter lib. ... Beat to a cream. 2... Yolks of eggs 6 yolks ... j Beat well alone first, then beat up 3- Whites of eggs 3 f with the butter. 4... Flour 1 lb. ... Beat in, adding it by degrees. 5- Sugar 1 lb. ... do. 6... Carraways ... 1 tea Add if liked. spoonful 7... Beat all well for 1 hour. 8... Put in a buttered tin and bake 1 hour in a quick oven.337 CAKES AND BISCUITS, 4-PLUM CAKE, - Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 12 ids. •.. 2... Butter dc-. 3-- Currants 3 IK £ ID. 4... Stoned raisins ^ lb. 5— Sugar T 1 The 1 4 IDS. ... 6... Yolks of eggs 14 7— Whites of eggs 7 8... V/11 vj p p t, u t Ipit'srsn i 1 lCXiivJll * * * j lemon peel r> 11 t- it • a- it. !> L/Oiiect all your ingredients together. y... Candied oran ge 3 OZ. ... 10... C andied lemon do. II... Grated nut- £ nutmeg meg Brandy 12... 1 wine- 13- Work the butter to a cream. ii... Beat in your sugar. 15... | Whisk your eggs % hour, then add them to your butter and cream. 16... ...j Add your flour and spices. 17... Beat all together i| hours. 18... 1 Mix in your brandy and peel and put your cake into a buttered tin, 19... i Bake i\ hours, 5.- PLAIN PLUM CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- G... 7... Butter Flour Yeast Yolks of eggs Whites of eggs Sugar Milk 8 OZ. ... 2 lbs. 3 table spoonsful 4 4 1 lb. ... | Mix together. Add, and let it rise 1 \ hours. ) Beat separately and stir into the ( dough. Stir in. Add enough to make it a proper thickness. x338 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. PLAIN PLUM CAKE—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 8... Sherry or I wine Marsala glass 9... Ginger iteaspoon 10... Grated lemon i lemon... peel J ii... Currants i lb. ... Add last, put into a buttered tin or a few and bake. carraways 6.-ICING FOR CAKES (1). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- Sugar Whites of eggs I lb. ... 4 Let it be the best loaf sugar pounded and sifted fine. Mix with the sugar and whisk for 2 or 3 hours till it looks white and thick, then brush it all over the top and sides of your cake. Set it at a distance before a clear fire, and keep turning it continu- ally that it may not turn colour, but a cool oven is best, where I hour will harden it. 7-ICING FOR CAKES (2). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 2... 3- 4— Whites of eggs Jordan almonds Loaf sugar ... 3 i lb. ... i lb. ... Beat to a froth. Pound very fine and mix very lightly with the eggs. Sift very fine and add it by degrees. Lay it on your cake and proceed as in preceding receipt.339 CAKES AND BISCUITS. 8.-RXCE CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Ground rice ... \ lb. ... 2... Flour do. | Mix together. 3- Sifted sugar... 1 lb. ... 4... Whites of eggs 4 Beat and add. 5- Stir till it begins to look white. 6... Yolks of eggs 4 Add and stir all well together. 7... Line a tin with buttered paper and bake. 9.—SPONGE CAKE. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Powdered sugar Eggs Flour Lemon peel ilb 5 1 lemon Break the eggs over the sugar and beat all together for full hali an hour. Take the weight of i\ eggs. Grate into the flour. Add the beaten eggs to the flour. Beat all up and pour into a tin. Put it instantly into a slow oven. 10.-LEMON CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Yolks of eggs 10 2... Whites of eggs 5 | Beat up well together till they froth. 3- Powdered sugar 1 lb. ... Add and beat for \ hour or more. 4... Flour ilb. ... Add. 5- Grated lemon peel 2 lemons | Add. 6... Lemon pulp ... 1 do. 7... Butter your tin and bake in a quick oven. 8... Do not close the oven door at once for fear it should scorch. x 234° MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 11.—FRANKFORT CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4,.. 5» 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 11... 12... Flour Warm milk ... Yeast Butter Eggs Sugar Lemon peel ... Nutmeg Salt 2 lbs. ... I pint ... 4 table spoonsful Jib. ... 8 6 oz. 1 lemon... Half ... A pinch... Dry and put in a pan. 1 Mix with the flour and put it in a | warm place to rise. Beat to a cream. Beat and add. Add. Grate fine and add. Grate over. Add and mix all to a paste. Work the dough and paste together, and beat for J hour. Put in a buttered tin, and let it rise. Bake ij hour in a moderate oven. 12.-PLAIN DOUGH CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... Flour Warm milk ... Yeast Sugar Salt Butter Sultana raisins I-Jlb. ... i£ pint ... 3 table spoonsfu. \ lb. A pinch... |lb. ... ilb. ... | Mix in the usual way, and put the > covered dough in a warm place | to rise. i j> Mix with the dough, and let it rise. j Bake in a buttered tin.341 CAKES AND BISCUITS. 13.-CINNAMON CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour ij lb. ... 2... Butter 10 oz. ... 3«- Milk Eggs Salt 1 pint ... . Work together to a stiff paste, and roll out half an inch thick. 4... 5- 2 . - A pinch... 6... Yeast 1 table spoonful j Mark it out in squares or diamonds, 7... but do not cut through. 8... Sifted sugar... 4 oz. 9... Powdered Small • Mix and sprinkle all over the cake. cinnamon spoonful 10... Put it on a floured tin near the fire to rise. 11... When risen bake in the usual way. 14.-POTATO CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... Potatoes Sweet almonds Sugar Yolks of eggs Whites of eggs Grated biscuit i ib. ... * lb. ... Jib. ... 5 5 Cold boiled potatoes grated fine. Blanch, pound, and add. Add. Beat and add. Beat to a froth and add. Mix all together to a paste. Butter a mould. Sprinkle over the mould. Put in the paste and bake 1 hour in a hot oven. 15.-ALMOND CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- Flour Butter Sugar | lb. ... \ lb. ... Jib. ... / Beat the butter to a cream and work j in the flour and sugar by degrees.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 342 ALMOND CAKE—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... 5- . 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... Candied peel Eggs White of egg Sweet almonds Sifted sugar... 2 OZ. 3 1 A handful Cut in slices and add. Beat and add. Put the paste in a shallow buttered tin. Beat and brush over. Blanch, cut in slices, and strew over. Sprinkle a little over with the almonds. Bake 15 minutes in a warm oven. 16.-LEMON BUNS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3... 4... 5- 6... Eggs Sifted sugar... Flour Lemon peel... Sweet almonds 3 \ lb. ... 1 lb. ... 1 lemon... 1 oz, Beat in a basin. Add and beat together £ hour. Add and work in by degrees. Grate fine and add. Blanch, pound, and add if liked. Divide in equal portions and bake on a buttered tin. | 17—ALMOND BUNS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter lib. ... Beat with a wooden spoon, 2... Flour I lb. ... Work in by degrees. 3- Yolks of eggs 2 1 4... Whole egg ... I - ... 5... Yeast 3 table spoonsful VVork all together with the flour to > form a paste, and divide into buns. 6... Milk \ pint ... 7... Sweet 2 or 3 oz. almonds 8... Sugar 2 oz.343 CAKES AND BISCUITS. ALMOND BUNS—(continned). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. g... 10... ii... Pounded almonds Sugar Bake on buttered tins. ) Mix and sprinkle over the bung f while hot. 18-RICE BUNS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... '9... Rice Flour Butter Eggs Sugar Nutmeg Yeast 1 lb. ... 4 lb. ... 1 lb. ... 5 To taste To taste 1 table spoonful Boil in milk until smooth and thick. Mix with the rice. Work into the rice and flour. Beat and add. Add. Add. Add and let the paste rise. Divide in equal portions. Bake on a buttered tin. 19.-MILK CAKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3-«- 4... 5- 6... 7... Flour Eggs Cinnamon ... Milk Candied peel Butter Sifted sugar... lib. ... 2 Small spoonful 1 tea cupful 1 oz. cut small I oz. j Mix all together to a paste, roll it } out and cut into small rounds or other shapes. Bake in hot butter* Sprinkle over while hot.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 344 20-GINGERBREAD. Order. | 1 Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour i\ lb. ... Put in a large basin. 2... Butter 4 oz. Melt in a saucepan. 3- Moist sugar... 2 oz. Add. 4-- Treacle 1 lb. Add, melt all together, and stir well. 5- Ground ginger 1 oz. Add to the flour. 6... Candied peel 3 oz. Cut and add to the flour. 7... Pour the melted butter and treacle on to the flour, and stir well. Q O... Carraway 4 oz. A A A if liL^rl Aua, 11 iiKea. seeds g... Soda 1 small tea 1 spoonful 10... Cream of \ tea ! Mix and add to the gingerbread, tartar spoonful j stir in well, but quickly. II:.. Hot water ... \ tea J cupful 12... Put it in a shallow buttered baking tin, and into the oven at once. 21.—GINGERBREAD NUTS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. I... Flour iilb. ... 2... Sugar lib. ... 3- Butter Jib. ... 4... Ginger grated I OZ. 5- Grated nut- i meg 6 .. Treacle lib. ... 7... Cream 3 table 8... spoonsful 9... Method. Mix all together and work in the butter very smooth. j- Warm together. Make all into a dough. Roll it out and divide it into th"n cakes with a teacup, or small glass, or roll them round like nuts, and bake them in a slack oven on buttered tin plates.345 CAKES AND BISCUITS. 22.—MADELEINES. Quantities. Method. Eggs Flour Butter Powdered sugar Lemon peel . Weight of the eggs Same weight Same weight i lemon... Weigh them in their shells. ! Break the eggs and mix the other j ingredients with them in a basin. J Grate very fine and add. Stir with a wooden spoon. Divide in portions and put in small buttered moulds Bake in the oven. Turn out of the moulds and serve cold. 23.-BRIOCHE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour lib. ... Put on the pastry board and make a hole in the middle. 2... Yeast I table spoonful Put in the hole. Warm water Add gradually until you have worked in all the flour and have a soft paste. 4... Knead into a ball, put it into a floured pan, cover with a cloth and put it in a warm place to rise. 5- Flour 2 lbs. ... Put on a board and make a hole in the middle. 6... Salt and sugar \ oz, of each Melt in a little water and pour into the hole. 7... Butter ii lb. ... Work soft with the hand and put in the hole. 8... 9... Eggs 4 Beat and add. Knead the paste well. 10... Eggs ::: 7 Beat up one by one and add to the paste, kneading thoroughly until it is smooth and soft.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 346 BRIOCHE—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. II... Dough ... When the dough first made has risen to twice its size, mix it with the paste. 12... ... Mix them well and knead. 13... Form the mixture into a large ball. 14... Flour Sprinkle over, cover the paste, and let it stand 4 hours in a warm place. 15... Roll it out and fold it again four or five times. 16... Make it into a ball again, flour it and let it stand 2 hours. I7... Roll it out and fold as before. 18... Put it in a cold place to get firm. ig... Form it into small loaves. 20... Egg I Beat up with a little water and brush over the loaves. 21... Bake on a tin in a very hot oven for i hour. 22... Serve hot or cold. 24.—KRINGELN, German receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour lib. ... 2... Butter 4 oz. -3- Sugar 5 oz. 4... Cinnamon or To taste ^ Mix all together to a smooth paste., and roll it out thin. nutmeg 5- White of egg 1 6... Yolks of eggs Lemon juice... 2 7... £ lemon... 8... Form into rings or other shapes. 9... White of egg 1 Brush over; bake in a moderate oven.347 CAKES AND BISCUITS. 25— BRETZELN, German receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour 5 oz. ... 2... Butter 2 OZ. 3-" Sugar 2 OZ. [ Mix well together, roll the paste out, 4... Yolks of eggs 2 j" and cut it in narrow strips. 5- Cream 2 table J spoonsful 6... Form the strips into figures of 8 about 4 inches long. 7... White of egg 1 Brush over them. 8... Sweet I OZ. Blanch and chop, and strew over 9... almonds them. Bake a light brown. 26.-SMALL LEMON CAKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... White of egg I Beat to a froth. 2... Sifted sugar... 5 OZ. ... Add and beat in. 3- Lemon juice... 1 tea Add. spoonful 4... Lemon peel... A pinch... Grate very fine and add. 5... Put in small heaps on waxed paper, and bake in a slow oven. 27.—SMALL CHOCOLATE CAKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities* Method. I... Whites of eggs 2 ... Beat to a froth. 2... Sifted sugar ... 6 oz. Add. 3... Chocolate ... 1 oz. Add in very fine powder. 4... Put in small heaps on paper, and bake in a slow oven.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 28.-CRISP SWEET BISCUITS. Order. Ingredients. (Quantities. Method. I... Flour I lb. ... 2... Sifted sugar ... I lb. ... 3- Lemon peel ... i grated \ Mix together and stir for half an hour. 1 fine 4... Eggs 6 5- Divide in portions, and bake on a buttered tin. 29.-SMALL CREAM CAKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. T... 2... 4... 5- 6... Yolks of eggs Cream Sifted sugar.. Butter Flour Butter Sifted sugar ... 3 ... Beat up. 6 table I Add to the eggs. spoonsful 1 table I Add, spoonful ' ' Add. Work in enough to form a light paste. Roll it out, and cut in small rounds. Fry or bake in hot butter, till lightly browned. Sprinkle over while hot. 30.-ALMOND BISCUITS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities Method. I... Flour i lb. ... Sift and dry, and put on the paste board and make a hole in the centre. 2... Butter 4 lb. ... Beat to a cream and add. 3- Sifted sugar \ lb. Add.CAKES AND BISCUITS. 34i ALMOND BISCUITS—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Sweet | lb. ... Blanch, pound, and add. almonds 5- Lemon peel .. | lemon Grate fine and add. 6... Eggs 4 Beat and add. 7... Mix well to a stiff paste, adding a little water if needed. 8... Roll out thin and cut in small cakes with the pastry cutter. g... Sweet 1 oz. Chop fine. almonds l,o... Sifted sugar.., 1 oz. Add. li... White of egg I Beat and mix with the almonds and sugar to a paste. 12... Sprinkle the mixture over the cakes. 13... Sugar Sprinkle over. 14... Bake on buttered tins in 3 slow Oven. 31.—ANISEED BISCUITS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter \ OZ. ... Warm and put in a basin. 2... Sifted sugar... 4 table Add. spoonsful 3- Aniseed 1 tea spoonful Bruise and add. 4... Eggs 2 Beat and add. Flour Work in as much as is needed to make a firm paste. 6... Roll it out thin and cut in rounds. 7... 8... Yolk of egg ... 1 Beat up with a little water and brush over. Bake in a slow oven on a buttered tin.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 350 32—LITTLE CAKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter 1 lb. ... Beat to a cream. 2... Flour i lb. ... ) Add, mix together and make into 3- Sugar ... J lb. ... j small cakes. 33.—MACAROONS. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Sweet almonds Sugar Rose water ... Whites of egg^ Powdered i lb. i lb. Blanch and pound. Add. Add a little to keep the almonds from oiling. Beat to a froth, put them in and beat all well together. Drop them on wafer paper. Sprinkle over them and put them into the oven. 34.-CHEESECAKES. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Good curd Eggs Rich cream Grated nut- meg Ratafia Su^rar \ pint 4 3 table spoonsful i tea spoonful | lb. ... Mix all well together and bake in } patty tins lined with a good pufi paste.351 CAKES AND BISCUITS. 35.-LEMON CHEESECAKES. Orde Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- Butter Loaf sugar ... Grated lemon peel and the juice of 1 strained Blanched almonds i ib. .. 1 ib. .. 2 lemons If liked. Just warm it. Stir into the butter. Stir in when the sugar is dissolved. Mix all well together and pour into patty pans lined with puff paste. Put a few on the top of each. 36.-TXPSY CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Stale sponge cakes or 1 large round stale sponge cake. 8 Put into a glass dish. 2... Sherry, Mar- sala, or any other white sweet wine Pour over till the cake is thoroughly soaked. 3- Sweet almonds ilb. ... Blanch, peel, cut into thin slices and stick all over the cake. 37.—CUSTARD FOR TIPSY CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Milk i\ pint ... Put in an enamelled saucepan. 2... Sugar iib. ... Add. 3... Lemon peel... i lemon Add; let the milk boil a few minutes, then take cut the peel.353 MYKA'S COOKERY BOOK, 2 oz. Sweet Blanch and chop fine, and strew over CUSTARD FOR TIPSY CAKE—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method, 4- 5-. 6... 7... 8... 9- Arrowroot ... Cold milk ... 3 table spoonsful A few spoonsful | Mix smooth together in a basin. Pour it gradually to the boiling milk. Bcil for about 5 minutes, stirring all the time. Take the saucepan off the fire and stir the custard till it is cold. When cold pour it over the cake. 30.-PETIT3 CHOUX. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3— 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... g... 30... I r... Water Salt Sugar Butter Lemon peel... Flour Eggs Whi'.e of egg \ pint ... A pinch... 1 oz. 1 oz. 1 lemon 3 1 Put in a saucepan. Add. Add. Add. Grate and add; boil up. When the water boils take the sauce- pan off the fire. Add gradually enough to make a thin paste stirring well all the time in the saucepan. Break and beat separately, adding them to the paste one at a time. Work the paste until it drops from the spoon. Beat to a froth; add and let the paste stand 1 or 2 hours. Divide the paste into balls the size of an egg and put them on a buttered tin. Beat up and brush over the balls. the balls. 12... 13... Yolk of egg ... almonds 1CAKES AND BISCUITS, 323 PETITS CHOUX-- (continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 14... 15... 16... 17... 18... ig... Whipped cream Preserve 39- Let them stand 15 minutes. Put them in a slow oven and wateh them carefully, as they are soon done. When they are swollen, hollow, and a light brown colour, take them out. Make a little hole in the side, Put a spoonful in each ball, Use in place of whipped cream, if preferred, BABA. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3— 4... 5- 6... 7- 0... g... 10... 11... 12... 13... 14... 15... Yeast Warm water Flour Salt Sugar Butter Eggs Eggs Rum Sultana raisins Currants Candied peel Powdered saffron \ OZ. ... \ pint ... 1 lb. ... A pinch... 1 oz. ilb. ... 3 4 1 wine glassful 2 oz. 2 oz. I oz. A pinch... 1 Mix together. Mix \ lb. with the yeast, and put it aside. Make a hole in the rest of the flour. ( Put into the flour, and knead all j well together. J Beat up one by one, and add. When well mixed, add the yeast mixed with flour. Add. Add. Clean, dry, and add. Cut in thin slices and add. Add. YMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 334 BABA—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 16... Powdered I oz. Add. sugar 17... Warm milk ... Add a little if the paste is too firm; it should be slack. 18... Put the mixture in a buttered mould, and let it stand near the fire 5 or 6 hours in cold weather, but a shorter time in summer. 19... When well risen, bake in a very moderate oven 1^ hour. 20... When brown it is done. 21... ... Serve hot or cold on a folded napkin. 40.-SAVARIN. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour I lb. ... Put in a basin, and make a hole in the centre. 2 .. Yeast £ OZ. J Put in the hole, and work part of 3- Warm milk ... J pint ... ) the flour into it. 4... Cover the basin, and let it stand in a warm place, till it has risen. 5- Warm milk ... i| pint ... Add. 6... Eggs 2 Beat and add, and mix well with a wooden spoon, stirring in all the flour by degrees. 7... Eggs 2 Add one at a time. 8... Butter 10 OZ. ... Beat with the hand, then add. 9... Salt A pinch... Add. 10... Sifted sugar... 1 ib. ... Add. 11... Candied peel 2 OZ. Slice thin, and add. 12... Warm milk ... Small quantity Add and mix thoroughly. 13... Eggs 5 Beat and add one by one. 14... Butter Butter a circular mould, shaped like a ring.CAKES AND BISCUITS. 355 SAVARIN—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method, T - I J... Sweet A handful Blanch, peel, and chop fine, and almonds sprinkle in the mould. l6... Fill the mould three parts full, and let it stand in a warm place. 17... When the paste has risen and fills the mould, put it in the oven. 18... Let it bake £ an hour, turn it out, and let it stand 20 minutes to cool. ig... Sugar and Make a thick syrup. water 20... Maraschino ... 1 wine Add to the syrup; any other liqueur glassful will do as well. 21... Brush the syrup several times over the cake, till it is quite saturated. 41.-KING CHARLES' CAKE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Sweet i lb. ... Blanch and pound in a mortar. almonds 2... White of egg I Add to moisten the almonds. 3" Orange flower water 2 large spoonsful Add to the almonds. 4... Sifted sugar... lib. ... Work in by degrees. 5- Salt A pinch Add. 6... Lemon peel... 1 lemon... Grate and add. 7... Yolks of eggs 4 Beat and add, and mix well. 8... Whites of eggs 4 Beat to a stiff froth and add. 9... Puff paste ... Line a shallow tart dish. 10... Pour the mixture in, but see that . does not run over the edge. 11... Bake in a cool oven. 12... White paper Cover the cake when it begins to brown. 13... Serve hot as soon as it has risen. v 2336 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 11... Beat to a froth. White of egg I 42.-MERXNGUE3- Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I.., 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... Whites of eggs Sifted sugar... Waxed paper Whipped cream 8 i lb. ... Beat to a stiff froth. Mix in quickly. Put spoonsful of the mixture on the paper in little oval heaps and see that they do not touch. Bake in a slow oven and if they begin to brown leave the door open. Detach them from the paper at once and leave them at the door of the oven. Before serving fill one oval with cream and put another on it enclosing the cream between the two. 43—GIMBLETTES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3«" 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... g... Flour Sifted sugar... Water Hot water ... I lb. ... 10 oz. ... ) Mix together to a smooth paste and j let it stand for 2 hours. Roll it out and cut it into all kinds of shapes. Have this ready on the fire. When it nearly boils throw in the cakes. Stir them in the water with the skimmer. When the cakes rise take them out and let them drain. Put them in the oven on a buttered tin. When nearly done take them out. Roll the cakes in the white of egg and put them back in the oven to brown. Serve cold. 10... 12... 13...357 CAKES AND BISCUITS. 44.—DARXOLES, a la Duchess*. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour I oz. | Beat up the egg and mix with the 2... Egg I it. ( flour. 3- Yolks of eggs 6 Beat and add. 4... Sugar J lb. ... Add. 5- Macaroons ... 6 Crush and add. 6... Salt A pinch... Add and mix well together. 7... Egg 1 Beat up and add the yolk and white. 8... Cream 1 pint ... Add. 9... Orange flowers Add a few crystallized. 10... Candied peel 1 oz. Cut small and add. 11... Angelica 1 oz. Cut and add. 12... Preserved A few ... Add and mix all well together. cherries 13... Line some small buttered moulds with puff paste. I4... Fill them with the mixture. 15... .!! Bake in the oven. 16... Sugar Sift over them and serve very hot. 45.—GENOESE CAKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Flour Sugar i.. i ib. ... 10 OZ. ... | Mix together in a basin. 3- Salt A jpinch... Add. 4... Orange flower water 1 table spoonful Add. 5... Brandy ... 1 small Add and mix all together. glass 6... Eggs 6 Break and beat one by one, and add to the mixture. 7... Butter i lb. ... Melt and add to the paste. 8... When it is well mixed, and forms a smooth paste, pour it on to a buttered tin.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 358 Beat to a froth, and add. 2 4... Whites of eggs GENOESE CAKES—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 9... Spread it out § inch thick. 10... Bake in the oven. II... When it has risen to 1 inch thickness, take it out. 12... Turn the paste, and put it back in the oven to dry the under part. 13... Cut the paste in lozenges or fingers. 46.-CROQUIGNOLES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour 1 lb. ... Put in a basin. 2... Powdered sugar 1 lb. ... Add. 3- Candied orange blossoms 1 large pinch Beat to a powder and add. 4... Butter 1 oz. Add. 5- Salt A pinch... Add. 6... Whites of eggs 4 Beat and add. 7... 8... Mix all to a thick paste. Drop in very small heaps on to a buttered tin. 9... White of egg 1 Beat to a froth, and brush over. 10... Bake in a slow oven. 11... Serve cold. 47.-MILANESE ROLLS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Flour | lb. ... Dry and sift. 2... Powdered | lb. ... Add. sugar 3- Yolks of eggs 3 Beat and add.359 CAKES AND BISCUITS. MILANESE ROLLS—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5- 6... 7- 8... g... 10... Note browned Salt Lemon peel ... —The paste can be slices of almond, ^ A pinch... i lemon... made into al vith pieces ol Add. Chop fine, and add. Mix well together, without adding any water. Divide into equal portions, and shape like rolls. Bake for io or 15 minutes in a slow oven on buttered tins. Serve cold. kinds of shapes, and, if liked, sprinkled with angelica or preserved cherries, and brushed over with yolk of egg, before baking. 48—CROQUETS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Eggs 5 Break into a basin. 2... Sifted sugar ... ilb. Add. 3- Sweet 12 oz. ... Blanch, cut in slices, and add. almonds 4... Flour 1 lb. ... Add gradually, and mix well. 5- Essence of A few Add, if liked. lemon drops 6... Stir till the mixture is quite smooth. 7... Divide it in fingers. 8... Yolk of egg ... 1 Brush over them, 9... Bake in a slow oven on a buttered tin. 10... Serve cold.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 366 SECTION XVIII.—COMPOTES OF FRUIT. ■• • 9«rS » • -——a* n .rr.. . Mta> l.-APEICOT COMPOTE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5 — 6... 7... 8... Apricots Sugar Water 6 or 8 ... i lb. ... 1 pint ... Choose them not too ripe. Cut them in two and take out the stones. | Boil in the fryingpan. Put in the apricots. Let them boil and skim. When the fruit is tender, put it into a deep dessert dish. Reduce the syrup, pour over, and serve cold. 2.—APPLE MARMALADE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... Apples Powdered sugar Vanilla, lemon or cinnamon flavouring Butter 12 lib. ... 2 0Z. Peel, take out the core, and chop into an earthen jar half full of water* \ Add. 1 1 JCOMPOTES OF FRUIT. 361 APPLE MARMALADE—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... Cover the earthen jar and put it in the oven. Let it bake 20 minutes. Pass the apples through a cullender. Put them into a stewpan and stir till all the water is evaporated. Dress on a dessert dish and sprinkle sugar over, and serve cold. 3.—APPLES, ciu bearre. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Small apples Slices of toast (crumb) Butter Sugar Butter i\ oz. Peel and take out the core, without cutting the fruit. Cut into slices proportioned to the size of the apples, and butter them. Melt in a pie-dish. Put in the toast. Put the apples on the toast. Put into each core-hole. Put a little lump on the top of the sugar, and add more of both as needed. Put the dish in the oven to bake* 4.—APPLES, an beiirre et aiut confitures. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Apples Sugar 3 oz. Peel and take out the cora. Melt in the frying pan over a slow fire, and stir to prevent burning. Put in the apples and three parts cook them*362 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. APPLES, au beavre et aux confitures—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. A 4... Apricot or \ any other > Put both at the bottom of a pie- preserve r dish. 5"* Butter J 6... Fresh butter... Put into the core-hole of each apple. 7... Sugar ... Do. 8... Fill up the spaces between the apples with preserve. g... Powdered Sprinkle over all. sugar 10... Bake. 11... Preserved Put one (if liked) on each apple. cherries 12... Serve hot on the same dish. 5. —APPLES, a VAnglaise. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3 5" 6... 8... Fine apples ... Crushed sugar Water Butter Slices of bread 3 or 4 jib. 2 or 3 spoonsful Peel and cut into quarters. Put into a stewpan on the fire. Pour over the sugar to help it to melt, and stir with a spoon to prevent it sticking to the bottom. When the sugar is melted, put in the quarters of apple. Put to melt in the frying pan. Fry in the butter. Arrange the fried bread under the apples on a dish. Pour the syrup over and serve hot. 6.—APPLE CHARLOTTE (1). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Apples 8 Peel, core, and cut in slices. 2... Put them into a stewpan with a little water.363 COMPOTES OF FRIUT. APPLE CHARLOTTE (1)—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 3-- Sugar 3 oz. ... 4... Lemon juice or vanilla flavouring, V Add. or cinnamon j 5"- Cover the stewpan and let it simmer 20 minutes. 6... Powdered sugar 2 OZ. i Add towards the end. 7... 8... 9... Apricot jam Butter If liked ... 1 Let it get cold. Butter a plain mould and line it with slices (crumb) of a stale loaf fried in clarified butter. 10... Join the slices neatly. 11... Fill the mould with the apple and apricot jam. 12... Cover the top with slices of bread fried in butter, and on the top put a plate with a weight on it. 13... Bake in a quick oven f to 1 hour. 14... Drain the butter out, turn out care- fully and serve hot. 7—APPLE CHARLOTTE (2.) Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Its5 Butter 1 OZ. ... Melt over a slow fire. 2... Butter a plain mould with it. 3>- Spong cakes 6 Cut in slices and put close together all round the mould. 4... Apple mar- malade Fill the middle. 5... With the spoon make a small hole in the middle of the marmalade. 6... Red currant jelly Put into this hole.3<H MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. APPLE CHARLOTTE {2)—continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 7... Put the mould in the oven and bake f hour. 8... Turn out the Charlotte Russe on to a dessert dish. 9... Serve cold. 8.—APPLES WITH RICE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 11... 12... 13... Apples Sugar ..i Lemon juice.«. Rice Milk Sugar Lemon peel ... Milk Preserve 9 12 i lb. ... i lemon... i'lb. ::: To taste 1 lemon -APPLI Peel and core them, without dividing. | Put on the fire to make a syrup. Put in the apples to stew. Put in a saucepan. Add and let the rice swell. Add. Pare thin and add. Add as required. When the rice is tender, take out the lemon peel. Put the rice on a dish, and place the apples on it. Bake a light brown. Put a little on each apple before serving. jSj en croustade. Ofder. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... Puff paste ... Flour Yolk of egg ... 1 Line a shallow tart dish* Fill the tart. Brush over the paste, and bake it in the oven. When done, turn out the flour, and put the pastg on a dish.3^5 COMPOTES OF FRUIT. 12... Serve directly the eggs rise. APPLES, en croustade—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method- 5- Fill the tart with a layer of apple marmalade. 6... Apples 6 Peel and core, without dividing, 7- Stew whole in sugar and water syrup. 8... ••• Put them on the marmalades and press them down a litt'e. g... Apricot J3.ni ... Put a little on each apple. 10... Preserved Put on the apricot jam. cherries Ii... ... ... C 1A oerve coiq» 10- APPLE MERINGUES, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Apples ... 10 oz. ... Peel, cut in quarters, core them, and cut in thin slices. 2... Butter 6 oz. Melt in a stewpan. 3- Sugar 6 oz. Add. 4... Lemon peel ... 1 lemon... Add to flavour. 5... Put in the apples, and let them simmer till tender. 6... Pile them on a dish. 7... Whites of eggs 4 Beat to a froth. 8... Powdered 3 oz. Add and beat in. sugar 9... Spread an even layer of the beaten froth over the apples. 10... Sifted sugar ... Sprinkle over. 11... Put in a slow oven. 1MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 366 11-APPLE SUED0X3E. Urder. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Apples 10 or 11 Pare and core, but do not divide. 2... Syrup 1 pint ... Make a light syrup, and stew the apples in it. 3--- See that they do not break. 4... ... ... When done, drain, and arrange in a pyramid on a dish. 5... Apricot jam ... Put a little in each apple. 6... Apple Fill in all the spaces between the marmalade apples. 7... Whites of eggs 2 Beat to a froth. 8... Sifted sugar... 2 table Add. spoonsful g... Put the icing over the apples. 10... Sifted sugar... Sprinkle over. 11... Sweet 1 oz. Blanch, cut in strips, and stick all almonds over the surface. 12... Put in a moderate oven till the apples are quite hot. 13... See that the almonds do not brown too much. 12.—CHERRY COMPOTE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cherries I quart ... Cut off the stalks. 2... Sugar and 4 oz. to 1 Put in a stewpan and skim when it water pint boils. 3— Raspberry 2 wine Add. juice glasses- full 4... Put in the cherries, and when done pile them on a glass dish. 5- Reduce the syrup and pour over them.367 COMPOTES OF FRUIT. 13.—STRAWBERRY COMPOTE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... Strawberries Powdered sugar Red currant jelly I quart ... 1 small pot Pick and arrange in a dish. Sprinkle over and let them stand. Melt and pour boiling over the fruit. Serve cold. 14.-GOOSEBERRY COMPOTE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- Gooseberries Hot water ... Cold water ... Vinegar Sugar, water I quart ... ij pint ... 4 oz. to 1 pint Choose them green, pick them, and put them in a stewpan. Add and leave them on the fire till the gooseberries rise to the top. ( Mix; take the fruit out of the hot < water and put them into the cold ( to recover their colour. Melt for the syrup; stew and serve the fruit like other compotes. 15.—CHESTNUT COMPOTE, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3— 4... 5- 6... 7... Chestnuts ... Water Lemon juice 50 f pint ... 1 lemon... Peel and throw into boiling water. Boil them till they are tender. Crush them in a mortar. ) Mix and put in the chestnuts as they f are crushed. Take them out and let them drain. Put the water and lemon juice on the fire. Add. Add, and when the syrup has thickened put in the chestnuts. Simmer gently till they are done. 8... 9... 10... Sugar Lemon peel... fib. ... 1 lemon...MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 368 16.-PINE APPLE COMPOTE. Order. Ingredients. • • Quantities. Method. 11 • • Pineapple ... I Cut off the top and pare the re- mainder. ... i nt it in cIippg ann ni^ririA tVip>cf» in half. 3"; Sugar, water IVIake a syrup in the usual way. 4- Put in the fruit and let it simmer very gently one hour. 51" Pour it into a basin and leave it till next day. 6... Drain the slices of pine apple and arrange them on a dish. 7- Strain the syrup and reduce it. 8... Pour it over the fruit. y ... Put the cut off top in the centre of the dish. 10... Dried cherries ) Use to decorate the dish before II... Angelica j serving. 17.-C0MP0TE OF CARROTS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Carrots f lb. ... Cut in inch-long very fine slices. 2... Boiling water Throw them in to blanch, then let them drain. 3» Put them in a stewpan. Boiling water Add till the carrots are covered. 5- Sugar lib. Add. 6... Chopped i lemon... Add when the water is reduced one- lemon peel half. 7- Lemon juice... 2 lemons Strain and add. 8... Simmer till the syrup thickens, but do not let it turn colour. g.. Pour it into a dish.. JO.. Stir frequently while it cools or the carrots will sink in a compact mass.COMPOTES OF FRUIT. 369 X8.-0RANGE SALAD- Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... Oranges Powdered sugar Brandy or sherry 19- 6 3 or 4 oz. 1 glassful ORANG Choose them very ripe, peel them, and cut them in slices. Put them in a deep glass dish. Sprinkle thickly over, and let them stand an hour. Pour over, stir a little, and serve. E COMPOTE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5— 6... 7... Note in syrup Oranges Cold water ... Sugar, water —Orange compote . Care must be tat 20.-I 6 is also made c en not to brea 5EAR c< Mark the skin in narrow stripes. Take off each alternate stripe with a sharp knife. Prick them all over. Put them in and leave them some Boil in the water until tender. Make a syrup, and boil the oranges for a few minutes. Arrange them on a dish, and pour the reduced syrup over them. f the peeled quarters of oranges gently boiled k the skin dividing the quarters. DMPOTE, a Veau. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 2... 3- Pears Sugar Water 8 £ lb. ... 1 pint ... Peel, take out the core, pips, and half the stalk. ) Melt and boil in an enamelled stevv- j pan.370 PEAR COMPOTE, a Veau—(continued). Order. Method. 4... Skim. 5- Put in the pears. 6... Lemon 1 slice ... Put in to keep the pears white. 7... Cinnamon ... Small Add. 8... piece When the pears are tender put them in a dessert dish, pour the syrup over, and serve hot or cold. Note,~A glass of brandy added to the sugar improves the flavour of the pears. 21—PEAR COMPOTE, an vin. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Pears 6 or 8 ... Leave them whole or divide them as preferred. 2... Peel and take out the core and pips, and cut off half the stalk. 3- Put the pears into an enamelled stevvpan. 4... Water jpint ... Pour over. 5... Cinnamon ... Small Cloves ' ... piece |Add. 6... 2 7... Sugar Jib. ... 8... Put the stewpan on the fire and let the sugar melt, leaving the cover on the pan. 9... Claret 1 wine Add when the pears are half done. glass 10... When the pears are red and tender, stand them on a dessert dish. 11... Take the cinnamon and cloves out of the syrup, reduce it, and pour it over the pears, and serve hot or cold as preferred.COMPOTES OF FRUIT. 371 22.—PRUNE COMPOTE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Prunes lib. ... Put into a deep dish. 2... Wash well in cold water. 3— Cold water ... Drain and put them in a stewpan. 4... i wine glass - Pour over, 5--« Claret do. 6... Sugar i lb, ...r 7... Cinnamon ... Small -Add. piece 8... Let them stew 1 hour. 9... Serve hot or cold as preferred. 23.-MACEDOINE OP FRUIT. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... Sugar Water I lb. ... £ pint ... | Make a thick syrup and strain it. 3— Lemon juice 1 lemon... Add to the syrup. 4... Strawberries Red and white ones. 5— Raspberries ... Take also in both colours. 6... Currants Also red and white. 7... 8... Pick the fruit carefully and let it simmer a few minutes in the syrup. Take it out with a skimmer and put it to drain. 9... Isinglass 1 oz. Dissolve in water and add to the syrup. 10... Let it get cool. 11... Oil a mould and drain it. 12... Stand it on pounded ice. 13... Pour in a little of the jelly and let it get firm. 1 z 2372 MYRA+S COOKERY BOOK. MACEDOINE OF FRUIT—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 14... 15... 16... 17... 18... Arrange some of the fruit on the jelly, alternating the colours. Pour in some more jelly. Continue putting in alternate layers of fruit and jelly till the mould is full, finishing with jelly. Let it set on ice or in a refrigerator. Dip the mould in hot water before turning the jelly out. Note.—Macedoines of stone fruit are made in the same way; peaches, apricots, plums, &c, are cut in slices, boiled in the syrup, and arranged in the jelly in the manner already described- 24,-GOOSEBERRY POOL. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... Green goose- berries Water Sugar Cream Grated nut- meg Lemon peel.. i lb. ... £ pint ... 10 oz. ... 1 pint ... A little ... 1 lemon Pick carefully and put in a saucepan. Add. Add, and boil the gooseberries until quite tender. Rub through a hair sieve. Grate the lemon peel very fine and > add with the cream and nutmeg, I and mix well. Serve cold in a glass dish. Note.- .—Good new milk may be substituted for the cream if. this cannot be obtained.373 PRESERVES. SECTION XIX.—PRESERVES. l.-APRICOT PRESERVE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Apricots Sugar Very ripe 1} lb. to 2 lbs. of fruit Peel, cut in half, and take out the stones. In large pieces. Powdered sugar Stones Cold water Brandy Put a layer of fruit in a large earthen pan. Put a layer of sugar on the fruit, and repeat alternate layers till all is used. Put a thick layer over the last layer of fruit. ,.j Let it stand 24 hours. Break them, and throw the kernels into hot water. Take them out, and pour cold water over them. Skin, and cut them in thin slices. Put the apricots in the preserving pan. Boil for I hour, stirring all the time. Towards the end put in the kernels, and stir well. When the preserve hangs in a thread from the spoon, it is done. Pour into the jam pots, and let it stand uncovered 24 hours. Cover the preserve with white paper dipped in brandy. Tie a second paper over the top of the pots.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 374 2.—APRICOTS, preserved whole. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Apricots Sugar Water Choose them large and not too ripe. Open them just enough to remove the stones. Weigh them. Allow i full pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Put the sugar in the pan. Put in about ^ pint to each pound of sugar. Boil till it becomes a syrup. Put in the apricots a few at a time, as there is room in the pan. Boil rather quickly, and turn them when done on one side. WThen sufficiently boiled they become transparent. Take them out carefully, and put them in jars. When all are done, drain the syrup from them into the pan. Boil and reduce the syrup, and strain it into the jars. Blanch and peel the kernels, and add a few to each jar. The apricots will swell as they become cool, and the syrup will form a jelly round them. Note.—Peaches are preserved in the same way as apricots. Kernels 3.—CHERRY JAM. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cherries 6 lbs. ... Choose them large and ripe. 2... Cut off the stalks, pick out the stones with a needle, breaking the skin as little as possible. 3- Red currants I lb. String, crush, and strain the jni*~ into a basin.375 PRESERVES. CHERRY JAM—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Raspberries ... ... i lb. ... Crush and strain in the same way. 5- Mix the two, and strain again into the preserving pan. 6... ... Add the cherries. 7— Sugar Allow fib. to each pound of fruit and juice. 8... Boil £ hour, stirring frequently. 9... Take off the scum as it rises. 10... When done, pour into pots. 11... Let it stand till next day. 12... Paper Cut in rounds to fit the pots. 13- Brandy Dip the papers in and lay on the jam. 14... Tie a second piece of paper over the pots. 4-RED CURRANT JAM, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3... 4... Currants Sugar Note.—-Raspber 5.-CUK 4 lbs. ... 4 lbs. ... ries are somet .RANT , String and put in the preserving pan. Crush small and add. Boil up, and then let the fruit boil fast for 7 or 8 minutes. Cover and tie down when cold. imes added to improve the flavour. JELLY, French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... Red currants White currants Raspberries ... Very ripe Ithe quantity £ the quantity String them into a basin. String and add. Pick and add. Crush the fruit by degrees through a sieve, into a basin,376 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK CURRANT JELLY, French receipt—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5- ... Put the pulp that remains in the preserving pan. Add and let the fruit swell on the fire. 6... Water A few drops 7- 8... Strain it through a linen cloth, and add to the other juice. Weigh all the juice. y... Sugar 1 lb. to Add to the juice the same weight. 1 lb. IO... Let it stand 2 hours. ii... Let it boil up, then skim. 12... Boil 20 minutes longer on a moderate fire. I3... When done pour it into pots. It should be a clear thin jelly. 14... Cover with paper in the usual way, and keep in a dry place. 6. —BLACK CURRANT JELLY. This is made in the same way, when it forms a clear dark jelly, or it can be made in the usual way, without straining the fruit. 7. -WHITE CURRANT JELLY. This is made in the same way, entirely of white currants, and flavoured with a little lemon peel. 8-GOOSEBERRY JAM. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Gooseberries 6 lbs. ... Cut off the tops and stalks, and boil them for 6 or 7 minutes. 2... Sugar 41 lbs. ... Crush and add. 3- Boil for | hour, stirring and taking off the scum. 4... Pour into pots and tie down when cold.377 PRESERVES. 9.—GRAPE JELLY. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Black grapes Take off the stalks and throw them into the preserving pan. Boil a few minutes. 3 Put them on a sieve, and crush them with a spoon. 4 ... Boil the strained juice, and stir until it is reduced one-half. 5 Take off the scum. 6 ... It is done when it jellies in cooling. Pour it into the pots. Put the pots in a very cool oven for 24 hours. Cover and tie down in the usual way. Note.—A few ripe pears, peeled and cut in quarters, are an improvement to this preserve ; they are added after No. 4 in the above receipt. Sugar, at the rate of one- third the weight of the reduced preserve, may be added; this will make it keep better, and the jelly will then need less boiling. 10.—GREENGAGE JAM. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I*.. Greengages ... Cut them in half and take out the stones. 2... Weigh the fruit and put it in the preserving pan. 3- Sugar Add £ lb. to each pound of fruit. 4... Let them boil very slowly at first, then more quickly. 5- Skim carefully and stir all the time. Boil for f hour, stirring frequently. Pour into the pots, and cover and tie 6... 7... down as usual. Note.—Plum jam is made in the -jame way.378 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 11—MULBERRY JAM. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Mulberries Sugar Choose them ripe and sound. Put them in the preserving pan and simmer gently to bring out the juice. Throw them on to a hair sieve. To every quart of juice that drops through, allow 3 lbs. of sugar. Put the sugar and juice on the fire and boil up. Skim, throw in the mulberries, and let them boil £ hour. Pour all into a basin and leave it till next day. Boil up again in the preserving pan, and see that the mulberries are not crushed. Pour into the pots and tie down as usual. 12—ORANGE MARMALADE, Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Seville ( Water Sugar Water ij lbs, each poun pulp 1 pint to d of Choose them very ripe. Put them in the preserving pan. Add enough to cover them. Let them boil till perfectly tender. Change the water 2 or 3 times. Drain them, take off the peel, and remove the pips. Weigh the pulp and put it back in the pan. Add to the pulp. The last water the oranges were boiled in. Boil all together for 20 minutes.PRESERVES. 379 ORANGE MARMALADE—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. II... Cut the peel in thin slices and add. 12... Boil for io minutes more. 13--. Pour into the pots and tie down when cold. 13.-RASPBERRY JELLY. Ingredients. Raspberries ... Red currants Sugar Quantities. 4 lbs. i lb. Method. ) Put together on a damp cloth over f a basin. Strain the juice through, by twisting the cloth tightly. Allow f lb. to each pound of juice. Put it in the preserving pan. Boil up and skim. Add the juice from the fruit, Boil 15 or 20 minutes. When done, strain through a jelly bag into the pots. Let them stand till cold, then cover and tie down in the usual way. 14—RHUBARB JAM. Ingredients. Rhubarb Sugar Lemon peel. Quantities. Method. Wash, wipe, peel, and cut it in small I pieces. ...! The weight of the rhubarb. Put it j all in the preserving pan. 1 lemon to Chop very fine and add. 2 lbs. of j rhubarb i : Boil slowly at first, then more quickly. ... Boil for I hour, and stir frequently. Pour into pots, and tie down as I usual. Note.—Rhubarb jam can also be flavoured with almonds, sweet and bitter, mixed at the rate of one part of bitter, to three parts of sweet almonds.MYRA'S cookery book. 38d 15—STRAWBERRY JAM (1). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Strawberries Sugar 6 lbs. 6 lbs. Method. Pick and weigh. Boil alone until it candies on the finger. Throw in the strawberries. Let them boil up 3 times, and skim well. Pour into the pots. Let them stand till cold, then cover, and tie down in the usual way. 16—STRAWBERRY JAM (2). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Strawberries Pick and weigh. 2... Sugar Allow \ lb. to each pound of fruit. 3- Lay the fruit and sugar in alternate layers in a large earthen pan. 4... Let them stand 24 hours. 5- Boil in the preserving pan, and take off the scum as it rises. 6... When done pour into the pots; let it cool, and then tie down as usual. 17—TOMATOES, preserved. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Tomatoes ... Choose them large and very ripe. 2... Weigh them, then peel them and put them in the pan. 3- Hot water ... Pour over till they are covered. 4... Boil 10 minutes, then put them on a 1 sieve to drain. 138x PRESERVES. TOMATOES, preserved—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5- Take out the seeds, and put the pulp back in the pan. 6... Sugar Add half the weight of the tomatoes. 7- Lemon peel... To taste Add. 8... Boil for £ hour and skim well. Q... Take out the lemon peel. JO... Pour into pots and tie down» Note—This makes a clear jelly of a rich red colour and pleasant taste. 18—VEGETABLE MARROW PRESERVE. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Vegetable marrows Sugar Lemons Lemon peel Powdered ginger 3 or4 To taste Cut them in half, peel them, and take out the seeds. Cut them in small pieces, and let them drain. Take the same weight as the marrows. Put the marrow and sugar in a large earthen pan in alternate layers. Pour the strained juice over. Let it stand 2 days in a cool place. Put it in the preserving pan, and boil for f hour. Put it back in the earthenware pan and let it stand a week. Drain off the syrup, put it on the fire, and reduce it. Skim well. ) Grate the peel, mix with the ginger, J and add to the syrup. Pour the boiling syrup over the marrow, put it in pots, and tie down when cold. Note,—Cucumbers, pumpkins, and melons can be preserved in the same manner.382 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 19.-T0 PRESERVE NUTS AND WALNUTS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- Nuts Cold water ... Salt ••• • • • Put them in a large jar or earthen pan. ) Make the water slightly salt only, j and pour over them. Leave them for a week, but change the water 2 or 3 times. Take them out and keep them for use in a large jar. 20.-TO BOIL SUGAR FOR SYRUPS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2,.. Sugar Water ^-pint to each pound of of sugar The best and finest white sugar. Break it, and put it in a copper-lined preserving pan. Pour over and stir with the skimmer while it boils, to prevent it from sticking to the pan and burning. 21- -TO CLARIFY SUGAR, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... White of egg Cold water ... Col J water ... A few drops Beat lightly to a froth. Add drop by drop, beating all the time. Mix f of this with the sugar on a brisk fire. Take off all the scum as it rises. Pour on to the boiling sugar if it rises too much. Add the remainder of the frothed white of egg. Skim again until the sugar is per- fectly clear,PRESERVES, 3S3 22—CRYSTALLIZED CHESTNUTS, marrons glacds. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Chestnuts Water Syrup Vanilla 1 stick ... Choose them large, and of good quality. Cut the skin with the point of a knife, but do not injure the fruit inside. Throw them into cold water. Boil fast on a quick fire, and when tender take them off the fire, but keep them hot. Have this ready and hot in the preserving pan. Peel the chestnuts, and throw them hot into the syrup. Take care not to break or injure them. Leave them till next day. Drain off the syrup, boil it up, and pour it over the chestnuts. Do this 4 days following. On the last day reduce and clarify the syrup. Add to flavour the syrup, and take it out again. Dip the chestnuts in, and let the sugar crystallize on them. 23.-CRYSTALLXZED CURRANTS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... Ripe currants Whites of eggs Water 2 i wine glassful Choose fine bunches. Beat to a froth. Add and beat well. Dip in the bunches of currants, and lay them on a sheet of white paper.3S4 CRYSTALLIZED CURRANTS—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5- 6... Sifted sugar ... ••• ... Sprinkle over, and roll ths currants in the sugar till they are thickly coated over. Let them dry on the paper, and the sugar will crystallize round each currant* 24-CRYSTALLIZED ORANGES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... Oranges Sugar Peel them, and take off as much of the white skin as possible, without breaking it. Divide them in quarters. Pass a needle and cotton through the thick white centre of each quarter, and tie it in a loop. Hang them all by the loops on wire hooks shaped like an S, and hang the hooks by the upper part on a string stretched from wall to wall. Boil on a quick fire until it bubbles and has slightly turned colour, but see that it does not go beyond this point. Take each hook by the top, and dip the orange in the boiling sugar. Take it out immediately, and hang it up on the string. Dip in each quarter separately, till all are done. Let them hang till dry. Serve at dessert.385 PRBSER VES. 25.—CANDIED ORANGE FLOWERS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Orangeflowers Fresh ones Take off the petals. 2... Boiling v/ater Throw them in for a moment to blanch them. 3--. Syrup Have a thick clear syrup ready. 4... Drain the petals from the water and throw them into the syrup. 5- Boil until the sugar candies. 6... Take the pan off the fire and stir till the sugar dries in a powder. 7- Divide the petals from the sugar with the hand, and put them in the oven to dry on sheets of white paper. 8... The oven must be cool, or the flowers will curl up, 9... Keep in boxes in a dry place. Note,—Violets and rose petals can be ca'idied in the same manner. 26.-ORANGE FLOWER SOUFFLES. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Orangeflowers Whites of eggs Sifted sugar 2 table spoonsful Take off the petals and chop them. l Mix together to form a paste. Add the orange flowers. Make some very small paper souffle cases. Put in small portions of the paste with a silver knife. Put them on a tin and bake in a moderate oven. When they have risen and are a good colour, take them out. Let them get cold, and then pack in boxes to be used as wanted, A A336 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 27.-NOUGAT. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. I... Sweet almonds J lb. 2 3 4... Pistachio nuts 3 oz. 5... Sugar ... i lb. 6 7 8... ... x90::: ::: ::: ::; :: 11 12 13 Method. Throw into boiling water and peel. Wash and dry them thoroughly. Cut in slices lenthways, and put them in the oven to keep hot. Peel, cut in pieces, and put in the oven. Put in a copper pan on the fire with a little water. Boil till it is a thick, clear syrup. Put in the hotalmondsand pistachios, and stir constantly. Boil till the sugar is a good caramel or dark yellow colour. Oil and drain a tin mould. Put a layer of the hot almonds at the bottom, and press them down with a spoon dipped in oil of sweet almonds. Add another layer and work quickly, as the sugar hardens immediately. Keep the almonds hot all the time and fill the mould. Turn it out as soon as it has set by tapping on the end of the mould. Note.—Nougat is sometimes spread in a thick layer on rice paper, and cut into square or oblong blocks before it is allowed to become cold. 28—MORELLA CHERRIES, preserved in brandy. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Early cherries Choose fine ones and prick them all over with a needle. 2... Cut the stalks short. 3»« Throw them into a wide-mouthed glass bottle. 4... Best brandy... Pour over till they are covered.387 PRESERVES. MOREL LA CHERRIES, preserved in brandy—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5-" 6... 7... 8... 9... 10.,, II-M Cinnamon ... Cloves Coriander ... Powdered sugar ( Tie up ir I a little ( bag- J lb; to Ij" pint of brandy I Add if liked. Cover the bottle closely so that the brandy cannot evaporate. Leave them for a month. Add and close again. When any cherries are taken out put in a little more brandy and sugar. 29- -PLUMS, preserved in brandy. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- A.... 5- 6... 7... 8... 0 • 10... 11... Greengages or other good plums Sua'ar ... Water 100 4 lbs. if pint ... Choose them very fresh, sound, and fine. Wipe them, and prick them all over with a needle to the stone. Cut off half the stalk, and throw the fruit into cold water. | Boil to a syrup. Drain the water from the plums, and put them in an earthen pan. Pour the boiling syrup over. Put a plate and weight on the plums to keep them down, and cover with a cloth. Leave them till next day. Pour off the syrup, and boil it for 10 minutes. Keep the plums covered. A A 2388 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. PLUMS, preserved in brandy—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 12... ... Pour the boiling syrup over the plums again, cover them, and leave them till next day. 13... Put the plums and syrup on a brisk fire. 14... ... The plums will first sink, when they rise take them out with a skimmer. 15... Put them on a sieve to drain. 16... Reduce the syrup. 17... Put the plums in wide - mouthed bottles. 18... Pour the syrup over them, warm, but not boiling. ig... Cork the bottles next day. 20... Leave them 3 or 4 days. 21... Brandy Fill up the bottles, and close them hermetically, Note,—A ricots, peaches, and pears, can be preserved in the same manner. Apricots thould be of medium size, not too ripe.- and smooth skinned; peaches and pears must be cat efully peeled, 30.— FRUIT, preserved in bottles. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Plums, green- gages, or | Choose fruit that is not too ripe. apricots, &c. Prick it all over with a needle. Put it in a preserving pan. Water Pour over till covered. Put it on the fire for a moment, and stir carefully. Take the pan off the fire. Drain the iruit on a sieve. Cold water ... Pour over to give the fruit firmness. Put it in wide-mouthed bottles, and half fill them.PRESERVES. 3S9 FRUIT, preserved in bottles—[continued). Ingredients. Quantities. I Almonds Sugar Filtered water A few if liked if pint to 1 lb. of sugar Water Blanch, slice, and add. Break and weigh. Pour over, and let the sugar melt thoroughly. Pour over the fruit, and fill the bottles f full. Close them, and make them air*tight, and tie down with wire. Stand the bottles in a large saucepan. Pack them with straw. Add to within 2J inches of the wires. Put the saucepan on the fire, and leave it till next day. Take out the bottles, and wipe them dry. Cover the corks with resin. Keep them in a moderately warm place. 31.-TO PRESERVE MUSHROOMS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Mushrooms ... Peel them, cut off part of the stalks, and if they are large cut them in pieces. 2... Boiling water Put them in for 2 or 3 minutes to blanch them* 3- 4... Drain them. Thread them on fine twine, but do not let them touch. 5... Dry in the air, but not in the sun, or in a cool oven. 6... When dry tie them up in bags, or put them in boxes. 7... Soak them in cold water for half-an- hour before using them.MYR/VS COOKERY BOOK. 39° SECTION XX.—SAVOURY DISHES. 1.—ANCHOVY TOAST. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Anchovies ... Bone, wash and scrape them well. 2... Chop, pound and press them through a sieve. 3--- Butter Mix an equal quantity with the anchovies. 4... Cayenne To taste Add. Slices of bread Fry in butter. 6... ... ... Spread the paste on the toast, heat before the fire, and serve very hot. 2. -BREAD PATTIES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. ...I French rolls... 3 Grate off the crust, cut the rolls in two, and hollow them in the centre. 2... Milk \ pint ... Pour over them, and let them soak till quite moist, but do not let them break. 3- Yolk of egg ... Let them drain. 4... € ::: Beat and brush over the patties. R... Roll them in the grated crust. 6... Butter 3 oz. ... Melt in a frying pan. 7... Fry the patties a nice brown. 8... Let them drain, but keep them hot. 9... Stewed mush- Fill the patties and serve them very rooms or hot. oysters 10... Any remains of poultry or game can be minced, heated in gravy, and served in bread patties.391 SAVOURY DISHES. Order. Ingredients 3— CHEESE PATTIES, German receipt. Method. Quantities. Flour Eggs Salt Hot milk Butter Parmesan cheese Pepperand salt Cream fib. ... 2 A pinch... \ pint ... 3 oz. 3 oz. To tas'.e 2 table- spoonsful I Mix to a paste and line the buttered J patty pans, and partially bake. Melt in a stewpan. Grate and add. Add. Add and mix all well together. Fill the patties with the mixture. Bake for a few minutes and serve very hot. 4—TOASTED CHEESE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cheese 6 or 8 oz. Choose Cheddar or Gloucester. 2... Cut in pieces and put it in a small saucepan. 3- Butter 1 oz. Add. 4... Pepperand salt To taste Add. 5- Mustard A little ... Add ; stir all well over the fire. 6... When melted and free from lumps it is done. 7... 8... Buttered toast Have some hot slices ready on a dish. Put a layer of cheese on each slice, and serve at once very hot. Note.—Another way is to lay slices of cheese on buttered toast and then let them toast together; a little mustard and pepper are spread on the cheese. 5.—CHEESE STRAWS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- Flour Butter Grated Par- mesan \ lb. ... k lb. ... k lb. ... | Mix together.392 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. CHEESE STRAWS—{continned). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. i_i on Method. 4... Salt To taste A A A Add. 5... Cayenne and A pinch Add. pepper Beat and add. 6... Egg 1 7- Mix all to a paste, and roll out \ inch thick. 8... Cut the paste in thin strips 3 or 4 inches long. 9... ... Bake in the oven and serve very hot. 6-RAMEQUINS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Parmesan 6 oz. Cut in thin slices and put in a stew- cheese pan. 2... Butter 2 oz. Add. 3- Shake the pan until they are melted and mixed. 4... Whites of eggs 3 Beat to a froth and add. 5- Beat all well together. 6... Fill small paper cases with the mix- ture. 7... Bake in a moderate oven and serve hot. 1 7—EGGS WITH CHEESE, Fond*. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter 2 OZ. Put in a baking dish. 2... Cheddar 4 0r5 Add and let them melt. cheese slices 3- Eggs 3 or 4 Break into the dish.393 SAVOURY DISHES. EGGS WITH CllEESE-(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4- Let the whites set in the oven or before the fire. 5- Grated cheere 3 oz. Sprinkle over. 6... Pepper To taste Add. 7- Brown before the fire and serve very hot in the dish. 8—FORCEMEAT PIE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Paste Make as for a raised pie. 2... Flour Fill the inside to the top. A filling of shreds of white paper may be used instead. 3- Put on the cover and bake. 4... Quenelles 20 Poach in water. 5- Mushrooms ... 20 Fry in butter. 6... Artichokes ... 3 or 4 ... Take the lower part of the leaves only, boil them in water and stew in flour and butter. 7... White sauce 1 pint ... Put the above ingredients in and boil gently a few minutes. 8... Yolks of eggs 2 Beat and add. 9... Good gravy ... A few Add and mix well. spoonsful 10... Take the cover off the pie, remove the flour or paper. 11... Put in the forcemeat. 12... Place the cover on the top and serve very hot.394 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 12... Flour 2 oz. Add and stir in. 9—FORCEMEAT TURNOVERS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... run paste v^ut in rounds about 5 incnes across. 2... Cold fowl ... i'ii. Take out the bones and chop the meat. 3- Gravy Add a little. 4- Mushrooms ... 3 or 4 ... Add. 5- Sausage meat k lb. ... Add. 6... Mix well to make a forcemeat. 7- Any remains of cold game or rabbit, &c, can be used. 8... Put some of the forcemeat on one- half of each round. g... Fold the paste over and close the edges. IO... Bake, or fry in butter and serve hot. 10.—GNOCCHX, Italian receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter I OZ. 2... Water 2 wine | Boil together. glasses 3- Salt, pepper... A pinch Add. of each 4... Flour 5 OZ. Add gradually, stirr'ng all the time. 5- Parmesan 3 oz. ... Grate and add. cheese 6... Stir for a minute over the fire, then take it off. 7- Eggs 3 Beat and add, stirring well. 8... Divide the mixture into small balls. 9... Boiling milk... | pint ... Poach the balls in milk. 10... Put them on a sieve to drain. 11... Butter 1 oz. Put in a stewpan.SAVOURY DISHES. 395 GNOCCHI, Italian receipt—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Milk Parmesan i\ pint Grate fine Add, stir well and simmer for \ hour, or till it thickens. Put a layer of gnocchi in a small baking dish. Sprinkle a layer over. Pour over a layer of the boiled milk and flour. Continue the layers until the dish is full. Strew grated cheese over the top. Brown in the oven and serve hot. 11.—MACCARONI, Italian way. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Maccaroni ... Jib. ... Boil in plenty of water. 2... Salt, pepper... To taste Add. 3- Let it boil gently for 20 minutes. 4... Drain off all the water. 5- Put the maccaroni in a stewpan. 6... Stock or milk J pint ... Add, and let it simmer till all the stock is absorbed. 7- Gruyere cheese 3 oz. ... Grate. 8... Parmesan ... 3 oz. Grate and mix with the other. 9... Add half the cheese to the maccaroni and stir well. 10... When it is well mixed add the remainder of the cheese. 11... Butter I oz. Add, stir well, and serve very hot. 12... If the cheese oils, add a little stock and stir over the fire. 12— MACCARONI, an grathu Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Maccaroni ... | lb. ... Boil as in previous recipe. 2... Butter Butter a baking dish. 3 — Put in the maccaroMYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 3 oz. Grate and add. 9... MACCARONI, au gratin—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 4... Parmesan ... 6 oz. Grate and sprinkle over. 5... Bread crumbs 1 table- Sprinkle over the top. spoonful 6... Butter 1 oz. Melt and pour over. 7... Brown before the fire and serve very hot. 13.—MACCARONI CHEESE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. I... Maccaroni ... Jib. ... Boil in milk till tender. 2... Put it in a baking dish. 3- Grated cheese 6 oz. Sprinkle over. 4... Egg 1 Beat and pour over. 5— Butter ijoz. ... Put in small pieces over the top. 6... Bake in the oven or brown before the fire. 14.—MACCARONI, with tomato sauce. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Maccaroni ... \ lb. ... Boil in water. 2... Butter \ OZ. Add. 3". Salt A pinch... Add. 4... Onion 1 stuck Add ; boil till tender. with cloves 5- Drain all the water off. 6... Put the maccaroni in a stevvpan. 7... Butter I oz. Add. 8... Gruyere 3 oz. ... Grate and add. Parmesan ...SAVOURY DISHES. 397 MACCARONI, with tomato sauce—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. IO..s Whole pepper A little ... Add. II... Cream 2 table- Add and stir all together. spconsful 12... When the cheese forms threads put the maccaroni on a hot dish, and take away the onion. 13- Pour thick tomato sauce over and serve. 15—MACCARONI, en timbale. Order, Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter Rub over the inside of a mould. 2... Puff paste ... Line the mould. 3- Maccaroni ... Fill with maccaroni dressed in the Italian way. 4... Cover with paste. 5- Butteredpape Put over the top. 6... Bake in a hot oven for 1 hour. 7... Turn it out on to a dish and serve very hot. 18.—NOUILLES, aujamboiu Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 1... Flour i lb. ... Put on the pastry board, and make a hole in the centre. 2... Eggs... 3 Break, beat and add. 3- Butter £ oz. Add. 4... Knead all together to a smooth paste. 5- Cut the paste in 8 pieces. 6... Flatten them with the roller till they are no thicker than a shilling. 7... 8... Flour Dredge over them. Hang the pieces of paste over the back of a chair on a clean cloth to dry a little.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 393 Serve hot. 7... NOUILLES, an jambon—{continued). Order. Ingredients. • • Quantities. Method. y... Roll them up and cut them in very small pieces. 10.,. Unroll them, separate them, and let them dry 1 hour. ] I ... Salt and water Boil in a saucepan. 12... Throw in the nouilles, and stir with the other hand that they may not stick together. 13- Let them boil fast % hour. 14... Take them out and let them drain. 15... Butter or lard 2 OZ. Heat in a stewpan. 16... Lean ham ... 3 or 4 oz. Cut in small squares, and brown in the butter. 17... Stock 1 wine Add as required. glass 18... Salt, pepper... Add. 19... Add the hot nouilles, and brown them with the bacon. 20.,. Serve hot piled on a dish. 17.-PILAU. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Rice i pint ... Wash carefully in warm water, and put it in a stewpan. 2... Stock 3 pints ... Add and put the stewpan on a quick fire, and cover closely. 3- Powdered J tea Dissolve in a little stock, and put saffron spoonful into the pan, when the rice begins to boil. 4... Boil quickly, and keep the stewpan closely covered. 5- The rice will swell, harden, and then become a .firm mass. 6... Let it boil for about 1 hour.SAVOURY DISHES. 399 IS.—RICE, Turkish way. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Onions 3 large ones Cut in pieces, and brown in 2 oz. cf butter. 2... Carrot 1 Cut in slices, and brown also. 3... Boiling water 1 wine glass Add to moisten. A... T Parsley A small Add. bunch 5... Salt, pepper \ A little of each 6... 7... 8... Nutmeg I Cloves ( Saffron ) A J J Add. g... Let it simmer gently 1 hour, then strain. 10... Rice i lb. ... Wash well. 11... Stock 1 pint ... Add to the rice, and put them on the fire to swell. 12... Add more stock if required, until the rice is half boiled, and the stock absorbed. 13... Add the strained sauce. 14... Butter 1 oz. Add. 15... Pepper A little ... Add. 16... Pimento A little ... Pound very fine and add. 17... Butter Rub the inside of a stewpan. 18... Put in the rice. 19... Let it thicken on a slow fire, and serve hot. 19.—RIOSSO, Italian receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Rice 6 oz. Wash, and boil for five minutes. 2... Throw it into cold water and then let it drain. 3- Lean ham ... 3 to 4 oz. Cut in small pieces. 4... Butter 2 oz. Melt in a stewpan. 5- Put in the ham and let it brown alJ over. 6... Stock 1 pint ... Add.4oo MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. \ RI0SS0, Italian receipt—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 7... Pepper A good Add. pinch 8.,. Put in the rice and let all stew for 20 minutes. 9.., Stir frequently to prevent it from sticking. 10... Serve very hot piled on a dish. 11... Sausages ilb. Z Fry and serve with it if liked. 20.—SAVOURY PIE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 1 Puff paste IVlake a good puff paste, roll it out very thin, and line a buttered mould with it. 2... Ham i large slice Put in a stewpan and leave it on the fire till nearly cooked. 3- Cut it up in very small pieces. 4... Cold roast fowl Cut up any portions of the white meat and add. 5... Pickled gher- 2 or 3 ... Cut small and add. kins 6... Anchovies ... 2 Wash, cut in fillets and add. 7... Truffles 2or3 ... Add. 8... Boiled carrot 1 Cut in slices and add. 9... Mushrooms ... A few ... Add. 10... Butter 2 oz. Melt in a stewpan. 11... Put in all the prepared ingredients. 12... Flour Dredge over. 13... Good stock ... ± pint ... Add and let all simmer for \ hour. 14... Pepper A pinch... Add. 15... Lemon juice... 1 lemon... Strain and add. 16... Put all into the pie. 17... Put on a cover of puff paste. 18... Paper Cover the top with buttered paper. 19... Bake in a moderate oven § hour. 20... Turn it out of the mould and serve hot.401 SAVOURY DISHES. 21.—SAVOURY SOUFFLES. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Butter Yolk of egg . Warm milk . Flour Salt Sour cream .. Whites of eg£ Butter Crayfish, quenelles, or calf's brains Yolk of egg .. Jib. i table spoonful 1 table spoonful To taste 3 table spoonsful 6 Beat to a cream. Break into the butter and stir till it is well mixed in. Add. Add and stir in well. Repeat Nos. 2, 3 and 4 until you have mixed in 6 yolks of eggs, 6 spoonsful of milk, and 6 spoonsful of flour. Add. Use if liked instead of 3 spoonsful of warm milk. Beat to a froth, and add gradually to the rest. Butter some souffle moulds. Put in a spoonful of the mixture. Boil separately, and put a cray- fish, a quenelle, or a small portion of brain in each mould. Cover with another spoonful of the paste. Beat, and brush over the top. Bake in the oven and serve hot. 22.-TALMOUSES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Butter i lb. ... Melt on the fire, then take it off. 2... Sifted flour ... 2 OZ. Add and work in. 3- Soft cheese ... 1 lb. ... Any good fresh cheese may be used; beat in with the butter. B B402 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. TALMOUSES—{continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. Fromage de i lb. Add and mix well. Brie 5- Salt To taste Add and work all to a smooth paste. 6... Eggs 4 Beat and add to the mixture. 7- Roll out the paste, and cut in fingers. 8... ... ... Bake in a hot oven. 23- FRIED ARTICHOKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Artichokes ... 6 Boil till nearly tender. 2... Pull out the leaves, and cut off the stalks, leaving the centres only. Eggs 2 Beat well. 4... Dip the artichokes in the egg. 5... Pepper, salt... To taste Sprinkle over them. 6... Butter 3 oz. ... Melt in a frying pan. 7... Fry the artichokes a nice browna 8... Melted butter Serve separately. 24.- -SCOTCH OYSTERS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Leg of veal ... lib. ... Chop and pound in a mortar. 2... Beef suet J lb. ... Shred and add to it. 3— Pound both together to a paste. 4... Bread crumbs 3 oz. ... Add. 5- Eggs 2 Beat and add. 6... Mace A little 7... Nutmeg of each | Add to season, mix well. 8... Pepper, salt..403 SAVOURY DISHES. SCOTCH OYSTERS—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 9... IO... II... 12... 13... 14... ... Good gravy ... Mushrooms ... Oysters \ pint ... 2 or 3 ... Make into little flat cakes. Fry them in butter or bake them. Put in a small saucepan. ) Add either, and thicken with a f little flour and butter. Pour over the cakes, and serve very hot. 25.- -STEWED OYSTERS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... Oysters Bread crumbs Liquor Mace Pepper Butter Vinegar 2 doz. ... 3 oz. | pint ... A little ... To taste 2 oz. 1 table spoonful Put them in a stewpan. Add. Add the strained liquor from the oysters. Add and boil all together for a )■ short time, but see that the j oysters do not harden. Garnish the dish, and serve very hot. 8... Fried sippets 26.-BRAXN CAKES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. J... 3- 4... 5- 6... 7... 8... Brains Bread crumbs Pepper, salt... Sweet herbs... Yolks of eggs Butter 4 OZ. 3 3 oz. Skin and boil them, and chop them small. Mix with the brains. ) Chop the herbs; add to the brains j and mix. Beat and mix with the rest. Make the mixture into small cakes. Melt in a frying pan. Fry the cakes a nice brown and serve very hot. Note.—The last four receipts are taken from a, Cookery Book of the last Century. B B 2MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. well every day for 10 or 15 days. SECTION XXL—PICKLES. l.-PICKLE FOR BOILED BEEP. Order. Ingredients. Quantities, Method. Brown sugar Saltpetre Salt Jib. i oz. Coarse sugar is best. Powder fine, and mix with the sugar. Rub the beef well with these at intervals, for two days. Dry well, beat, and add to the pickle. Rub well into all parts of the meat for three weeks. Before boiling the beef wash off the salt. This is sufficient for 20 lbs. of beef, either the round, the brisket, or the aitch bone. 2.—PICKLE FOR BEEF. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cold water ... 2 gallons Put in a large saucepan. 2... Brown sugar 2 lbs. Add. 3 — Bay salt 2 lbs. Add. 4... Common salt 2 lbs. Add. 5- Saltpetre jib. ... Add. 6... Sal prunella... jib. ... Add. 7... 8... Boil gently, and skim as the scum rises. When cold put in the beef, and rubPICKLES. 405 3.—PICKLE FOR BEEP, HAM, AND TONGUES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Water 3 gallons Put in a saucepan. 2... Common salt 6 lbs. ... Add. 3- Bay salt 2 lbs. Add. 4... Loaf sugar ... 2 lbs. ... Add. 5- Saltpetre 2 oz. Add. 6... Boil over a slow fire, and skim carefully. 7... Let it get cold before using. 8... 9... Sait Rub over the meat, and let it drain for 24 hours. Put it in the brine, and cover well. 10... Leave the meat in pickle one or two weeks, according to taste. 4.—HAMBURGH PICKLE FOR BEEF, Sec. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Water 2 gallons Put in a saucepan. 2... Bay salt 3 lbs. ... Add. 3.., Coarse sugar 2 lbs. ... Add. 4... Salt petre 2 oz. Add. 5- Black pepper 2 oz. Bruise, tie in muslin, and add. 6... Boil all together for 20 minutes. 7... 8... 9... Take off the scum as it rises. Pour into a deep earthen pan and let it stand till cold. Put in the meat, and see that it is entirely covered by the pickle. Leave it in a fortnight, turning it in the brine occasionally. 10... Good for beef, ham, and tongues.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 406 5.—SWEET PICKLE FOR BACON AND HAMS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5... 6... 7... 8... 9... 10... 11... 12... 13... 14... 15... 16... 17... 18... 19... 20... 21... Ham Saltpetre Common salt Bay salt Sal prunella... Coarse sugar Allspice Cayenne Black pepper Eschalots Nutmeg Cloves Treacle Strong beer ... Pepper Flour 6.-I 16 lbs. ... 2 OZ. Jib. ... Jib. ... 1 OZ, lib. ... 2 OZ. ground 1 tea- spoon 2 oz. 2 chopped 1 grated h ex- pounded jib. ... | pint ... >ICKLEI Put in a large pan. Mix, all well together to form a pickle, and rub the mixture into the ham every day for half an hour. Turn the ham in the pickle every day and baste it. Pour a thin layer over the ham on the fourth day. Warm and pour over one day after the treacle. Leave the ham in pickle 6 or 8 weeks, rubbing it well every day. Drain and dry it thoroughly. 1 Sprinkle all over the ham. Put it in a canvas bag. Hang in the kitchen until wanted. ) BEETROOT. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 6... Beetroots Vinegar Pepper, salt... 5 or 6 ... 1 pint ... To taste Choose them a medium size, and of good colour. Boil and peel them. Cut them in thin slices. | Mix and put the beetroot in. This will keep good for several weeks, and can be used with salad, or eaten with cold meat.PICKLES. 407 7.-PICKLED CABBAGE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... Red cabbage Salt i or 2 ... Pick off the outer leaves, and shred the inner part very fine, and put it in a pan. Sprinkle thickly over it. Let it stand 2 days, and stir twice a day. Let the salt and moisture drain off, and put the cabbage in an earthen jar. Pour over till covered. 1 Add to flavour, or boil the pepper in j the vinegar. Cover closely, and keep 2 months. 5- 6... 7... 8... 9... Boiled vinega: Peppercorns Cloves Small red peppers 8—PICKLED ESCHALOTS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Eschalots I quart ... Clean and peel them. 2... Vinegar 1 quart ... The best pale white wine vinegar Salt must be used; put it in a saucepan. 3- 1 dessert Add. spoon 4... Pepper 1 oz. Add whole white pepper. 5- Boil the vinegar quickly, then skim. 6... Throw in the eschalots. 7... Let them simmer two minutes. 8... Pour them into a stone jar. 9... When quite cold, tie down with thick paper.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 4o8 9.—PICKLED GHEEKHINS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Gherkins • Pick them in Septemher, and see that they are very fresh, and of equal size. 2.. Cut off the stalks, and put them in an earthen pan. 3- Salt Cover them well. 4... Let them stand 24 hours, but turn them 3 or 4 times. 5- ... Put them to drain, and wipe them perfectly dry. 6... Put them in pickle jars. 7... Vinegar Pour in till they are covered. 8... At the end of a week, pour off the vinegar. 9... Let the gherkins drain. 10... Vinegar Pour fresh vinegar on them. 11... Pepper 1 12... 13... 14... Tarragon Fennel ! Put a little of each into all the jars J to give flavour. Cloves 15... Capsicums ... 16... Stopper the jars closely, and keep them in a cool place. 17... At the end of two months they will be ready for use. 10.-PICKLED LEMONS, Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Lemons 8 Wipe them dry and cut in quarters lengthways, but without quite dividing them. 2... Salt Stuff them with salt. 3— Put them in a deep dish and place them in the sun, or in a warm place. 4... Turn and baste them frequently and leave them 9 or 10 days.PICKLES. Tie in muslin and add, A little ... Cayenne 11... PICKLED LEMONS—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 5- 6... Put them in a stone jar. Pour the juice over them. 7... Small onions 12 ) Prick the onions with the cloves 8... Cloves 24 j and add them to the lemons. 9... Vinegar 2 quarts Choose white-wine vinegar. 10... Ginger 1 lb. Bruise and add to the vinegar. 11... Pepper 2 oz. Whole black pepper; add. 12... Mustard seed 1 lb. ... Add. 13... Boil the vinegar and pour boiling on to the lemons. 14... Cover the jar and let it stand till next day. r5... Capsicums or 6 ) Add whichever is most convenient 16... Chilies A few ... j or preferred. 17... Tie down and keep six months at least before using. 11.—PICKLED MUSHROOMS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Mushrooms ... 1 quart ... Choose the smallest button mush- rooms freshly gathered. 2... Cut off the stems quite close. Salt Moisten a piece of flannel, dip it in saltj and clean the mushrooms with it. 4... Cold water ... ) Mix, and throw the mushrooms in 5- Salt f as they are cleaned. 6... Take them out quickly, and dry on a soft cloth. 7- Vinegar 1 quart ... Distilled or white wine vinegar may Salt be used; put in a saucepan. 8... 1 tea- spoon 9... Pepper 1 oz. whole white [Add. 1 J 10... Ginger 1 oz. 'Bruise and add.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 4io simmer 3 or 4 minutes. PICKLED MUSHROOMS—(continued). Crder. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 12... 13- 14... 15... 16... 17... 18... 19... Mace Nutmeg 2 blades Half only Add if liked. Add if liked. Let the vinegar boil up, then skim. Throw in the mushrooms. Let them boil from 8 to 10 minutes, until tender. Pnf tnptn in orlcicc nriff-lf^c J. Ut UIL111 ill glctoo UUUiCOi Divide the spice amongst them When cold, tie them down, and keep in a dry place. 12-PICKLED NASTURTIUMS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... 2... 3- 4... 5- 6... Nasturtium seeds Buds Vinegar Salt Pepper I quart ... 1^ oz. ... Gather them young, day by day, as they are ready. Add a few very young ones. I Mix, and keep ready in ajar. Throw in the nasturtium seeds and buds each day as gathered. When the jar is sufficiently full add a little whole pepper and tie down for use. 13.—PICKLED ONIONS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Onions I quart ... Choose them very small, and peel. 2... Vinegar 1 quart ... White-wine vinegar is best; put it in a saucepan. 3- Salt 1 dessert Add. spoon 4... White pepper 1 oz. Add whole. 5- Boil quickly, then skim. 6... Throw in the onions and let them411 PICKLES. PICKLED ONIONS—(continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 7... 8... g... 10... Spice ... If liked When clear put them in a jar. Pour the vinegar over them. Can be added to the vinegar when boiling. Tie down when quite cold. Note.—Spanish onions can be shred fine and pickled in the same way. 14—PICKLED WALNUTS. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Walnuts 50 Choose them while still so soft that a pin can be run through them. 2... Water 2 quarts... ) Mix to form a brine, and take off 3- Salt 12 oz. ... \ the scum that rises. 4... Throw in the walnuts. 5-- Stir them twice a day. 6... Change the brine every third day. 7... 8... Leave the walnuts in brine for 10 or 12 days. Spread them on dishes. 9... Put them out in the air for some hours, till they are black. 10... Vinegar 1 quart ... Put in a saucepan. 11... Salt 1 tea- spoon Add. 12... Black pepper 1 oz. Add whole. 13... Ginger 1^ oz. ... Braise and add. 14... Mace A little ... Add if liked. 15... Mustard seed 2 oz. Add. 16... Onions 2or3 ... Stick with cloves and add. 17... Boil for about 5 minutes. 18... Put the walnuts in jars. 19... Remove the onions and pour the boiling vinegar on the walnuts. 20... When cold tie down. 21... Keep the walnuts well covered with vinegar, and add boiled vinegar to them as required.MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK. 15-MIXED PICKLES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Mustard ... 1 IK _ . . , . Put in a jar or basin. 2... Salt 1 lh Add. 3-- Mustard seed 2 OZ. AAA 4... Turmeric 3 oz. A /iaa. 5- Black pepper I oz. A AA /iaa. 6... C ay e n n e . • • oz. ... Add. 7... Vinegar ... ... ... Add, stirring all the time till the mixture is the consistence of thin cream. Q 0... Cauliflower ... ... ... Break in small pieces and put in an earthen jar. g... Celery ... Add in small pieces. 10... trench beans Young ones. 11... Small onions Add a few. 12... Gherkins A few small ones. 13... Nasturtium Young ones only. seeds 14... Red peppers... A few. 15... Pour the prepared vinegar over them and stir well. 16... Cover the jar closely and keep it in a warm place. 17... Stir every day for a month. 18... Divide off into glass pickle jars, and keep some months before using. 16 —ACHARD PICKLES, French receipt. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Vinegar 5£ pints... Put in a large pan. 2... Peppercorns 3 oz. ... Add. 3- Mustard seed 2 oz. Add. 4... Turmeric Jib. ... Add. 5- Powdered i lb. ... Add. ginger 6... Coriander 1 oz. Add, seed 7... Capsicums ... \ oz. Add.PICKLES. 4To AG HARD PICKLES, French receipt—(continued). r er. Ingredients. v^/uantities. Method. 8... Let all steep together 8 days- Q... Strain through a cloth, and then through paper. 10... Olive oil if pint ... Add. II... Cauliflower ... Break in small pieces. 12... Brussels sprouts Choose them small, and remove the outer leaves. 13... Celery Cut in short lengths. 14... Carrots Small ones cut in pieces. 15... French beans Small ones. 16... Asparagus ... The tips only. I7... Artichokes ... The centre only. l8... Maize A few young ears. 19... Red cabbage A little, shred very fine. 20... Green oranges A few small ones. 21... Green apricots A few, thinnings from the trees. 22... Nasturtium ... Young seeds only. 23-. Capers Fresh or pickled. 24... Gherkins If large cut in pieces. 25... Vegetable marrow Very small young ones. 26... Capsicums Red and green. and hot peppers 27... Put all these in a large earthen jar, and pour the prepared vinegar over them. 28... Stir them with a wooden spoon. 29... Close the jar tightly. 30... Let it stand out in the sun for a few days. 31... They should be kept for some months before using. Note.—-We do not give the quantities of vegetables required, as any of those named can be omitted, except the capsicums and hot peppers, and more or less of each kind used as required or liked. The jar should be quite three-quarters full before the vinegar is poured over the vegetables.414 17.-INDIAN PICKLES. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Cabbage I Choose a white one, take off the outer leaves and cut the rest in very thin slices. 2... Cauliflower ... I ... Break in small pieces. 3- Salt Sprinkle thickly over them and let them stand 2 days, stirring them well. 4... ... Is C L L11G111 yXL&lll aliU U U U LLlwlii ill CV large j ar. 5— French beans ... 6... 7... 8... 9... Gherkins Small onions Capsicums ... Nasturtium ... Add some of all of these, with any > other vegetables liked or in season. seeds 10... Cloves of garlic 6 11... Eschalots 12 12... Horseradish 2 sticks... 13... Powdered i lb. ... ginger Peppercorns 14... 2 oz. 15... Long peppers I oz. > Add to the vegetables. 16... Cloves 12 17... Cayenne pepper \ OZ. 18... Mustard seed 2 OZ. 19... Mustard J lb. ... 20... Turmeric I OZ. 21... Mace \ OZ. ... 22... Vinegar 2 quarts Boil, and pour boiling on to the vegetables, &c. 23... When cold cover the jar or jars. 24... Let it stand for some days, then divide off into pickle bottles. 23... Cover closely and keep several months.415 PICKLES. 18-CHUTNEY. Ingredients. Tamarinds . Sultanas Lemons Tomatoes . Sour apples . Eschalots Onions Red chilies . Powdered ginger Moist sugar. Vinegar Quantities. I lb. i lb. 12 1 lb. 1 lb. 4 oz. 6 lib. 1 lb. 1 lb. 4 quarts Method. Use the pulp only. Chop and add. Grate the rind of all, and take the strained juice of 6. Remove the skin and seeds, and add the pulp only. Peel, core, mince, and add. Peel, chop, and add. Chop small and add. Add. Add. Add. Add and mix well together. Keep in a warm place for 3 or 4 weeks. Stir the chutney now and then. Put in small jars or bottles for use. 19.—SWEET MELON PICKLE. Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. I... Melons 201*3 ... Gather them 2 or 3 days before they are quite ripe. 2... Pare off the rind, remove the seeds, and cut them in slices half an inch thick. 3- 4... Vinegar Put the slices in and let them remain for 10 days. Take them out and put them in a saucepan. 5... Vinegar Pour over cold vinegar until they are covered. 6... Simmer gently until tender. 7... ...1 Put them on a reversed sieve to drain.4i6 MYRA'S COOKERY BOOK, b Wiiil 1 A/TT7T r\XT Mr, .LUIS jriuiYi^r!/—[continued). Order. Ingredients. Quantities. Method. 8... Cloves ... When the melon is cold stick 2 cloves into each slice. g... Sugar IO oz. ... ) Boil quickly for 20 minutes to make IO... Water 1 pint ... ... ... j a syrup, and let it get cold. ii... ... ... Put the slices of melon in a glass jar. 12... .,, Pour the cold syrup over and let all stand for a week. Take out the slices and let them drain a little. 14... Put them in jars for use. 15- Vinegar 1 pint ... Boil up and let it get quite cold. 16.,. Pour over the melon, and cover the jars well. 17... Keep for 4 or 5 weeks before using. Note.—This pickle is served with roast mutton, hare, and venison, and also with stewed meat. A little cinnamon may be added to flavour the pickle, if liked, but it should be used in very small quantities. REMARKS ON PICKLING. The vinegar used for pickling should be of the best kind and greatest strength, and boiled in stone jars in preference to saucepans. All vegetables and other ingredients should be thoroughly dry before they are put into the vinegar, and if this becomes thick, as is sometimes the case, it should be poured off the pickles, boiled up again and then once more poured over them. It is most important that all pickle jars should be air tight, and that when pickles are removed from the large jars to smaller ones for use, a perfectly dry wooden spoon should be used for the purpose. The pickles left in the large jar must be covered with vinegar, or they will spoil. FINIS.INDEX. PAGE Anchovy toast 390 Apple Charlotte (I) 362 „ Charlotte (II). ... 363 ,, marmalade 360 ,, meringues ... ... 365 ,, Suedoise 366 Apples, a PAnglaise ... 362 ,, au beurre 361 au beurre et aux con- fitures 361 4, en croustade ... 364 ,, with rice 364 Asparagus, boiled 201 Artichokes, boiled 201 ,, fried 402 Jerusalem ... 202 Bacon, for larding 145 Beef, to boil 67 aitchbone, boiled 68 ,, silverside, boiled ... 69 „ boiled, au gratin ... 84 ,, a la mode 71 ,, a l'etouffee ... ... 75 ,, broiled 82 ,, boulettes ... ... 83 ,, collared ... ... 81 ,, carbonades, a la Fla- mande 76 ,, en daube 72 ,, en miroton 82 ,, fillet, a la jardiniere ... 73 ,, fillet, with macaroni ... 73 ,, fillet, with tomatoes ... 74 fried 82 ,, grenadins ... ... 74 ,, kidney, saute 77 „ kidney, saute, another way .. ... ... 78 minced 85 „ olives 76 PAGE Beef, preparation for keeping 65 ,, rolled ribs, braised ... 66 ,, rolled ribs, roasted ... 66 ,, sirloin, roasted ... 65 ,, steak, broiled 69 ,, steak, stewed 70 ,, steaks, French receipt 70 ,, steaks, another French receipt 70 turnovers 84 Biscuits, almond 348 aniseed 349 ,, crisp sweet ... 348 Blanc mange, arrowroot ... 318 ,, ,, English receipt 317 ,, ,, French receipt 317 Brain cakes 403 Brawn 144 Broad beans ... ... ... 203 Broccoli, boiled 202 Brussels sprouts, boiled ... 203 ,, „ sautes ... 202 Buns, almond 342 lemon 342 » nee 343 Cabbage, boiled ... ... 203 ,, stuffed ... ... 204 Cake, almond 341 » Baba 353 cinnamon 341 ,, citron 336 ,, Frankfort 340 ,, icing for, (1) 338 „ icing for, (n). ... 338 ,, King Charles 355 » lemon 339 ,, plain dough ... ... 340 ,, plain plum 337 11 Plum 337 potato 341 c cINDEX. PAGE PAGE Cake, pound 336 Celery, au jus .*» 207 rice 339 ,, boiled Cheesecakes 207 rich 335 350 ,, Savarin 354 ,, lemon Cheese straws 351 ,, sponge 339 391 „ sweet egg 249 )) toasted 391 ,, tipsy, and custard for Chestnuts, crystalized 383 same 351 Chicken, a la bourgeoise ... 151 Cakes, Bretzeln, German re- a la Diable 150 ceipt 347 jj a la Marengo x53 . ,, Brioche 345 u au blanc ... J52 croquets 359 >> broiled 154 ,, croquignoles 358 j) filleted 155 fish 60 saute 154 ,, Genoese 357 Compote, apricot 360 ,, gimblettes 356 carrots 368 ,, Kringeln, German re- j» cherry 366 ceipt 346 55 chestnut ... 367 ,, little 350 5 5 gooseberry 367 ,, Madeleines ... 345 J 5 orange 369 Milanese rolls 358 pear, a l'eau 369 ,, milk ... 343 55 pear, au vin 370 petits choux ... 352 5 5 pineapple 368 ,, small chocolate 347 55 prune 371 ,, small cream ... 348 55 Cornis strawberry 367 ,, small egg 248 ti meat pasties 285 ,, small lemon ... Crabs, to dress 62 Calf's brains, a la maitre Cream , Bavarian 318 d'hotel 88 caramel 3*9 ,, brains, au beurre noir 89 cocoa-nut 324 brains, fried ... 90 coffee 320 crow, with vinegar economical 321 sauce 102 fruit ... 324 ,, feet, a la poulette ... 104 Italian 3-6 ,, head, a la poulette ... 87 lemon 323 ,, head, baked ... 86 stone 322 ,, head, boiled ... 87 vanilla 322 ,, heart, roasted 99 whipped, a la Chan- ,, liver and bacon TOI tilly 321 ,, liver, a la bourgeoise IOO ,, wine ... Cucumbers, stuffed 324 ,, liver, roasted 99 207 ,, liver, saute ... 102 Currants, crystallized 383 ,, sweetbread, stewed... 103 Custard, English 251 Carrots, a la maitre d'hotel 204 )> French 250 ,, boiled 205 Catchup, mushroom 270 ,, walnut 269 Dampfnudeln, or steamed Cauliflower, boiled ... 205 dumplings ... 292 French way ... 206 Darioles, French receipt ... 3i4 „ cheese 206 Si a la duchesse 357INDEX. PAGE Duck, to truss 166 ,, roasted 167 salmis of 169 stewed with peas ... 168 with turnips, French receipt ... ... 167 Dumplings, apple ... ... 298 ,, Carthusian ... 301 Eggs, boiled ... 239 ,, hard boiled ... .. 239 „ a la moutarde ... 241 ,, a l'ecossaise ... ... 242 „ brouilles or mumbled 243 cheese, or foundue ... 248 ,, with cheese, another receipt 392 ,, fried ... ... ... 240 ,, poached ... ... 240 ,, poached, en matelote 241 ,, snow ... ... ... 249 ,, stuffed 242 sur le plat 244 Fish: Brill, boiled 35 ,, Brill, a la Parisienne 35 ,, Carp, boiled 53 ,, Carp, a la mariniere ... 54 ,, Cod, fresh, boiled ... 36 „ Cod, curried 37 ,, Cod, salted 36 Cod, salt, a la creme... 36 Eels, baked ... ... 55 ,, Eels, boiled ... ... 55 Eels, collared 57 ,, Eels, en matelote ... 57 ,, Eels, fried 56 ,, Eels, stewed ... ... 55 ,, Gudgeon, fried ... 58 ,, Haddock, baked ... 38 ,, Herrings, baked ... 3g ,, Herrings, broiled ... 38 ,, John Dory, boiled ... 39 Mackerel, a la maitre d'hotel ... ... 3g „ Mackerel, boiled ... 40 ,, Mullet 40 ,, Mullet, red 41 PAGE Fish: Perch 58 ,, Pike, roasted 58 ,, Plaice, filleted 41 Salmon, baked ... 43 ,, Salmon,boiled, English way 41 ,, Salmon, boiled, French way ... _ 43 Salmon, pickled ... 42 ,, Salmon scallops ... 44 ,, Salmon steaks ... 42 Scalloped, cold fish ... 59 ,, Shad ... ... ... 44 ,, Shad, way to carve ... 45 ,, Skate, au beurre noir... 46 ,, Skate, crimped, boiled 45 ,, Skate, fried ... ... 45 ,, Smelts 45 Soles, au gratin ... 48 Soles, boiled ... ... 46 ,, Soles, filleted 48 Soles, fried, English way ... ... ... 47 ,, Soles, fried, French way 47 Sprats, broiled 49 ,, Tench 59 ,, Trout, boiled 59 ,, Trout, stewed 59 ,, Turbot, a la Hollan- daise... ... ... 50 ,, Turbot, au gratin ... 51 Turbot, boiled... ... 49 ., Whitebait, fried ... 51 „ Whitebait, Greenwich style 51 ,, Whiting, au gratin ... 52 „ Whiting, fried 52 Forcemeat, or stuffing for veal ... ... 271 „ balls for jugged hare 273 ,, calf's liver ... 274 for chickens ... 272 ,, for game pie ... 280 ,, turnovers ... 394 Fowl, to truss ... ... 147 ,, boiled 149 c c 2INDEX. iv PAGE PAGE Fowl, roast 148 Hare, en civet 177 a la Montmorency ... 156 ,, hashed 178 ,-, cold, en blanquette... 158 „ jugged 177 ,, croquettes 158 ,, roasted 176 ,, curried 157 Haricot beans, boiled 215 ,, fricasseed I51 ,, stewed, en daube ... 149 ,, with rice 148 Jam, cherry 374 ,, to warm up cold 157 ,, gooseberry .,, ... 376 ,, receipt for making ,, greengage 377 tender 147 ,, mulberry 378 French beans, to keep 209 ,, red currant 375 ,, ,, or kidney ,, rhubarb 379 beans 208 ,, strawberry (I) 380 ,, „ a l'etuvee ... 210 ,, strawberry (II). 380 „ a la maitre Jam sandwiches 290 d'hotel ... 210 Jelly, aspic, for poultry 334 „ a la poulette 209 ,, apple 331 ,, ,, sautes 209 ,, apricot 330 French gateau 311 ,, black currant 329 Fritters, apple, French re- ,, black currant, another 37°" ceipt 293 ,, calf's foot 327 ,, batter for ... 293 ,, currant, French receipt 375 ,, cream 316 ,, for cold meats... 333 „ fruit ,, fruit in 328 329 Gingerbread 344 » grape 377 ,, nuts 344 ,, isinglass 328 Gnocchi, Italian receipt 394 ,, medlar 33o Golden fingers 301 ,, orange 327 Goose, to truss 165 ,, port wine 332 ,, roasted 166 ,, punch 333 ,, potted, French re- ,, quince ... 33i ,, ceipt 166 ,, raspberry 379 Gooseberry fool (I) 298 ,, red currant 329 » (II). Gravy, to clarify 372 ■ ,, to clarify 334 257 ,, white currant ... 37°" Green peas, boiled 211 ,, white wine 332 ,, ,, a la Franchise... 212 ,, wine, another ... s.. 332 ,, ,, French way 211 ,, ,, puree of ,, ,, stewed with tin- 213 Kedgeree 62 ned meat 213 ,, with bacon 213 Lamb, blanquette of 133 Grouse 193 ,, breast of, en fricassee 129 ,, chops ,, cutlets, French re- 131 Ham, boiled (I) 138 ceipt 131 « (H) 146 ,, cutlets, with French Hare, to truss 176 beans 131INDEX. v PAGE Lamb, forequarter of, roasted 127 ,, leg, boiled 129 ,, leg, roasted 128 ,, loin, roasted 128 ,, quarter, boned ... 127 ragout of 132 „ saddle, roasted ... 128 ,, shoulder, glazed ... 130 „ shoulder, with green peas ... ... 130 target, roasted ... 128 Lamb's fry 132 Landrail 194 Lard to melt 146 Larks, a la minute 196 ,, roasted 195 Leeks 216 Lentils, a la maitre d'hotel 215 ,, puree of 216 Lobster cutlets 63 Lobsters, to dress 62 Macaroons 350 Macaroni, au gratin ... 395 ,, cheese 396 „ en timbale ... 397 „ Italian way ... 395 „ with tomato sauce 396 Macedoine of fruit 371 ,, ofvegetables ... 234 Meat rolls 286 ,, to curry 258 Meringues ... ... ... 356 Milk pancakes 292 Mincemeat 289 Mince pies 289 Mould, caramel 319 ,, Charlotte Russe ... 326 ,, chocolate ... ... 320 Mont Blanc 325 ,, orange sponge ... 325 ,, rice ... 304 Mushrooms, broiled 217 ,, on toast ... 218 ,, sautes 217 ,, stewed ... 217 ,, to preserve ... 389 Mutton, breast, broiled ... 117 PAGE Mutton, breast, stewed ... 117 ,, boulettes 123 „ chops, broiled ... 113 ,, chops, with bread crumbs ... ... 114 „ croquettes 126 ,, cutlets, a la jardi- niere 115 ,, cutlets, a la Main- tenon 116 ,, cutlets, sautees ... 114 ,, cutlets, with rice ... 116 ,, cutlets, with vege- tables ... ... 115 ,, emince of 123 ,, haricot 118 „ hashed, French re- ceipt 125 ,, Irish stew ... .. 118 ,, leg, boiled 108 ,, leg, boned 109 ,, leg, braised 109 ,, leg, roasted ... 108 ,, loin, roasted ... m „ loin, stewed like venison 112 ,, loin, stuffed ... in ,, neck, boiled ... 112 ,, neck, roasted ... 112 ,, saddle, roasted ... no ,, shoulder, braised ... m ,, shoulder, roasted ... no sliced 125 „ sliced, a la bour- geoise 124 Nougat 386 Nouilles au jambon 397 Omelet, au fromage 246 ,, au lard 245 ,, au pain 246 ,, au rhum ... ... 247 ,, aux anchois ... 246 ,, aux fines herbes ... 244 ,, soufflee ... ... 247 „ with asparagus ... 245 ,, with mushrooms ... 245INDEX. vi PAGE Omelet, with onions ... 245 Omelets, remarks on ... 248 Onions, glaces 218 Orange flowers, candied ... 385 Orange flower souffles ... 385 Orange marmalade ... ... 378 ,, salad 369 Oranges, crystallized ... 384 Ortolans, roasted 196 Oysters, scalloped ... ... 64 ,, Scotch 403 „ stewed 64 ,, stewed, another re- ceipt 403 Ox brains, en matelote ... 80 ,, palate, a la menagere ... 80 ,, tail, en hochepot ... 79 „ tongue, en daube ... 78 Parsnips, boiled 220 Partridges, to truss 188 ,, au chasseur ... 191 „ aux choux ... i8g ,, braised ... ... igo ,, broiled 189 ,, ragout of ... 192 ,, roasted 188 ,, souffle of ... 192 Paste, American puff ... 276 ,, crisp, for tarts ... 275 „ dripping ... ... 276 ,, French puff 276 ,, for custards 278 ,, for meat pies 276 ,, German, for fruit tarts 277 ,, German, without yeast 278 ., light, for tarts ... 275 ,, plain yeast 278 „ rich puff 275 ,, to glaze 278 ,, to ice 279 Pastry, on making 275 ,, fried 294 „ Swiss 313 ,, Windsor ... \ 291 Patties, bread 390 ,, cheese, German re- ceipt 391 ?, oyster 280 PAGE Pheasant, to truss ... 18*7 107 ,, roasted ... 107 ,, salmis of PifVI*3 few nrwlArl nppf x iCxVIC lUl UU11CU UtCl • •• 188 404 for beef AC) A 4U4 ,, for beef, ham, and tongues ... 4°5 ,) Hamburgh 4°5 ,, sweet, for bacon 406 Pickled beetroot ... 1^ ,, cabbage ... ... 407 ,, eschalots ... 407 ,, gllCl Klllo ... 408 ,, lemons ... 408 ,, mushrooms 409 ,, 11 do l Ui 11U ill b 410 onions ... 410 ,, walnuts ... ... 411 x 1C IV1C £>, ALllalU ... 412 ,, chutney All ,, Indian AT A T" T" mixed 412 ,< sweet melon 4r5 Pie, chicken ... 282 )} fish ... 61 ,, forcemeat 393 ,, game 279 ,, paste, for game 281 ,, lark ... ... 282 ,, mutton ... 284 ,, J' 1 C U U ... ... ... 281 ,, pork 284 ,, rabbit 282 ,, rump steak ... 283 ,, savoury ,, veal and ham ... 283 Pigeons, to truss 169 ,, a la crapaudine 171 ,, en compote 170 ,, roasted 169 stewed, with mac- aroni 170 ,, stuffed, a la cra- paudine ... 172 Pig's cheek, a la bourgeoise 139 ,, cheek, English fashion 139 ,, cheek, stuffed ... ... 139 ,, feet, a la sainte Mene- hould 141 feet, French receipt ... 140INDEX. vli PAGE TAGE Pig s head, roasted ... x37 j 1 1 1 Pudding custard, baked ... 3I5 ,, kidneys... Pilau ... 141 ,, date ... ... 308 » "g, 308 Pork cheese ... ... J43 ,, fruit 297 ,, chine, boiled 130 ,, German bread 302 ,, chine, roasted ... I36 ,, lemon 308 ,, chops, French receipt x37 ,, lemon, baked 3r5 ,, cutlets ... 142 ,, marmalade (I) 307 ,, cutlets, with vegetables I37 ,, marmalade (II) ... 3°7 ,, hashed 143 ,, new hasty... 3*4 ,, hochepot 141 ,, plum 2g6 ,, leg, boiled J35 ,, potato 311 ,, leg, roasted *35 ,, prune 308 loin, roasted 136 ,, rice (I) 3^3 ,, roast, French receipt ... 136 ,, rice (II) 303 ,, sparerib, roasted J35 ,, rice (Iaa; ... 304 Potatoes, a la maitre d'hotel 221 „ roly-poly 298 ,, boiled 220 ,, roly-poly, baked ... 299 fried 221 ,, Roman 3X3 mashed 223 ,, sago and macaroni ,, new, boiled. 220 biscuit ... ... 307 new, French way 220 „ semolina ... 306 soufflees ... 224 ,, tapioca 306 with bacon 222 ,, vermicelli... 306 ,, with parsley, Ger- ,, Yorkshire... 295 man receipt 223 Puree of dried peas ... 214 Potato boulettes ... ... 222 ,, ribbons ... ... 223 souffle 310 Quails, to truss ... 194 Preserve, apricot 373 ,, au chasseur ... x95 ,, vegetable marrow ,, broiled ... ... 194 Preserved apricots, whole ... 374 388 „ roasted 194 fruit in bottles ... Quenelles, forcemeat balls ... 273 ,, Morella cherries in brandy 300 ,, plums in brandy 387 Rabbit, a la Bourguignonne 180 ,, nuts and walnuts 382 ,, a la Provencale 185 Ptarmigan, Blackcock 193 ,, au chasseur 181 Puddings 295 ,, boiled 183 Pudding, amber 309 ,, curried 187 baked apple 2Q7 ,, en civet ... ... 182 ,, baked plum 296 ,, en gibelotte 184 ,, batter 3*5 ,, roasted 179 ,, beefsteak 295 ,, roasted, French re- ,, biscuit 312 ceipt 182 ,, Bombay ... 300 „ stewed with vege- ,, bread 297 tables 186 ,, bread and butter... 299 ,, with herbs ... 186 ,, bread and cheese 299 Ramequins 392 ,, cabinet 310 Rice croquets 305viii INDEX. Rice, milk 305 Turkish way 399 Riosso, Italian receipt ... 399 Roux, coloured 258 ,, white 258 Sage and onion stuffing ... 272 Salads 235 Salad, method of preparing 235 dressing for 235 dressing prepared beforehand ... 236 beef 85 fish 238 fish, another way ... 238 French beans ... 237 lobster 63 plain 236 potato 236 tomato 237 lsify, stewed ... ... 224 fried 225 Sauce, apple ... ... ... 253 a la maitre d'hotel ... 261 a la maitre d'hotel, another ... ... 261 a la bechamel ... 261 a la moutarde ... 259 au beurre noir ... 265 au pauvre homme ... 262 blanquette 266 blanche, or melted butter 252 braise 267 bread ... ... ... 256 bread, with onions ... 256 caper 252 egg 255 Espagnole 260 for all purposes ... 259 Hollandaise ... ... 266 horseradish 268 Italienne 260 lobster 255 mayonnaise 270 mint ... 253 onion 253 oyster 254 piquante 265 PAGE Sauce piquante, another ... 265 ,, poivrade 268 „ red currant jelly ... 270 „ remolade 263 „ Robert 263 ,, savoury 262 ,, shrimp 254 ,, Soubise, French onion 254 ,, to serve with roast rabbit 183 ,, to take the fat off ... 257 ,, to thicken 257 ,, to thicken with egg 257 ,, Tartare 268 ,, tomato 264 ,, wine, for puddings ... 271 ,, clear wine 271 Sausage meat ... ... 145 „ rolls 285 Sea-kale, boiled 226 „ ,, stewed in gravy ... 226 Sheep's kidneys 119 ,, kidneys, broiled ... 119 kidneys, sautes ... 120 liver, a la menagere 122 ,, tongues, en papillotes 122 ,, trotters, a la poulette 121 Snipe, &c, to truss 197 ,, or woodcock, roasted 197 ,, salmis of ... ... 197 Sorrel, French receipt ... 226 Souffle, bread and butter ... 300 Souffles, savoury 401 Soup, almond 26 ,, bouillabaisse 30 bourgeoise 25 „ bread, or Panada ... 24 „ cabbage 10 ,, cabbage, without meat 17 ,, chicken broth 4 ,, chicken brofh, another method 5 ,, crawfish, bisque ... 33 ,, fish ... 32 ,, fish, with herbs ... 31 ,, flour 18 ,, forcemeat ball 24 ,, green pea 9 „ hare 28INDEX. ix PAGE Soup, haricot bean n ,, Italian paste ... ... 25 lentils ... ... ... 10 macaroni ... ... 21 maigre, without meat 16 ,, maize ... ... ... 20 ,, meat broth, or Con- somme ... ... 6 ,, milk ... ... ... 23 ,, mock turtle ... ... 27 ,, mutton broth 5 ,, onion ... ... ... ir ,, onion, with cheese ... 12 ,, oyster ... ... ... 32 ,, ox-cheek ... ... 27 ,, partridge 29 ,, potato and sorrel ... 14 ,, pumpkin 15 „ rice (I) 18 ,, rice (II) jg ,, rice (HI), simpler ... 19 ,, rice milk ... ... 20 ,, rice and tomato ... 26 ,, sago ... ... ... 21 ,, sago milk 21 ,, semolina 22 ,, semolina milk... ... 22 ,, sorrel, with cream ... 15 ,, spinach 12 ,, split pea 13 „ stock, made in an hour 2 ,, stock, Pot-au-Feu ... 2 ,, stock, Pot-au-Feu, another 4 ,, stock, quickly made ... 1 ,, stock, quickly made, another 1 ,, strong fish stock ... 29 ,, tapioca (I) 23 ,, tapioca (II) ... ... 23 ,, vegetable ... ... 7 ,, vegetable, without meat 16 ,, vegetable, a puree ... 8 „ vegetable, thick ... 8 ,, vermicelli ... ... 22 ,, water Souchy ... 33 Soups, to clear 34 Spanish onions, a l'etuvee ... 219 Spinach, au jus 227 TAGE Spinach, boiled ... ... 227 Sponge sandwiches ... ... 309 Sucking pig, roast 134 Suet crust ... 276 Sugar, to boil for syrups ... 382 „ to clarify 382 Talmouses 401 Tart, apple ;.. 288 ,, apple, German receipt 290 ,, cranberry 288 ,, French 291 ,, fruit 287 „ rhubarb 288 Tartlets 289 Teal, Widgeon 200 Tomatoes, roasted ... ... 230 ,, stewed ... ... 229 ,, stuffed 228 ,, puree of 229 ,, preserved ... 380 Turkey, to truss a 159 ,, boiled 161 ,, roasted ... ... 160 ,, giblets, a la bour- geoise ... ... 162 ,, salmis of ... ... 164 ,, stewed, en daube ... 162 ,, to warm up, a la bonne Femme ... 163 ,, to warm up, en capitolade ... 163 ,, to warm up, a la chipolata ... 164 Turnips, boiled 230 ,, French way ... 230 ,, a la poulette ... 231 ,, minced ... ... 231 ,, with mustard sauce 232 Veal, blanquette of 105 ,, breast, roasted ... 96 ,, breast, with white sauce 97 ,, cake 106 ,, croquettes 106 ,, cutlets 91 „ cutlets, a la bourgeoise 91INDEX. Veal cutlets, glazed cutlets, sautees cutlets, with sorrel fillet, roasted ... fricandeau of ... knuckle of, boiled loin, roasted ... minced shoulder, roasted shoulder, stewed getable marrrow, al'etuv ,, baked ,, boiled Venison, collops ... PAGE 93 92 93 94 98 97 95 105 95 95 233 233 232 x75 Venison cutlets ,, haunch, roasted ... ,, hashed ,, neck and shoulder ,, stewed Vols-au-vent, small Wild duck, to truss... ,, ,, to carve ,, roasted ... ,, ragout of ,, ,, salmis of Windbags, German receipt PAGE !75 173 174 173 !74 287 198 199 198 200 199 302 Doherty & Co., Printers, 6, Great Newport Street, St. Martin's Lane* London, W.C.BROWN & POLSON'S CORN FLOUR FOR THE NURSERY. In ordinary cases the only suitable food for young infants is milk. So soon, however, as some solid addition to the liquid food becomes desirable, there is nothing better for the purpose than BROWN AND POLSON'S CORN FLOUR. Its principal functon is to supply heat. It also contributes to the formation of fat, so essential to life at all stages, but especially to the earlier. BROWN & POLSON'S CORN FLOUR FOR THE FAMILY TABLE. In the hands of an accomplished cook there is no known limit to the variety of delicate and palatable dishes which may be produced from BROWN & POLSON'S CORN FLOUR. It is equally susceptible of plain and simple treatment for ordinary domestic purposes, and one of its chief recommendations is the facility with which it may be prepared. Boiled with milk, and with or without the addition of sugar and flavouring, it may be ready for the table within fifteen minutes; or, poured into a mould and cooled, it becomes, in the course of an hour, a Blanc-mange, which, served with fresh or preserved fruit, will be acceptable at any meal. Add sultanas, raisins, marmalade, or jam of any kind, and in about the same time it is made into an excellent Baked Pudding. To which may be added:—Take care to boil with milk, when so required, for not less than eight minutes. BROWN & POLSON'S CORN FLOUR FOR THE SICK-ROOM. The properties of BROWN AND POLSON'S CORN FLOUR are identical with those of arrowroot, and it is in every respect equal to the costliest qualities of that article. The uses of arrowroct in the sick room are not only matter of tradition, but of every-day experience, and there can be but few persons who are not acquainted with its uses as an important ally to medical treatment. BROWN AND POLSON'S CORN FLOUR claims to serve the same purposes, with at least equal acceptance and at considerably less cost, and therefore offers the facility of freer use to a larger public. It has received from medical and scientific authorities the highest testimonials to its purity and serviceableness ; it is largely used in Hydropathic and other Institu- tions throughout the Kingdom, and its export to all foreign parts has long given it a world-wide reputation. NOTE.—Purchasers shouid insist on being supplied with BROWN AND POLSON'S CORN FLOUR. Inferior kinds, asserting fictitious claims, are being offered for the sake of extra profit.HEALTH AND PERSONAL ATTENTION. (See Myra's Answers in "Myra's Journal.") EXTRACT FROM IPOST^I, TOILET LIST. PHILIP H. MASON, |)Ijarmamttifal €ijmist, mxb €\jmxmt to % (garrison:, 25, HIGH STREET, GOSPORT. The entire list (containing some eighty preparations) will be sent by return post, on the receipt of stamped address. NOTICE.—All articles in this List admit of Postal Transit, and will be delivered free per post at the prices marked, secure from observation, and carefully packed. The immense number of postal applications which have followed " Myra's " esteemed notices of a few of Mr. Mason's Preparations, show that there are large numbers of ladies who, in the country, are remote from a] first-class pharmacy, or who, in towns, . find it inconvenient to go or send to their immediate neighbours for such articles as Hair Restorers, Cosmetiques, Depilatories, Corn Plasters, and the thousand-and-one toilet requisites and medicinal remedies in daily use. The want thus shown, this List is in some measure intended to supply. ACNE LOTION (Strachan's).—Specially adapted to remove blackheads, and that greasy appearance of the- skin which is a common sympton in some varieties of Acne. 3s. 3d. per case. DANDRIFFINE.—An exquisite prepara- tion for the immediate removal of Scurf or Dandriff, and for preventing its re-ap- pearance. It is almost invariably suc- cessful, and, though it contains no grease, the hair needs no other dressing during its use. 3s. 6d. per case. EXTRACT OF SEA WKACK (Fucus Vesi- culosus).—The new remedy for obesity. Tiiis preparation has met with a wonder- ful demand. Its effects in some cases seem magical. It is perfectly safe for the most delicate constitutions. Price 3s. 3d. per case. ASTRIN OENT TOOTH POWDER.—A cer- Xtain remedy for sponginess of the gums. Is. 3d., 3s. per box. BITARTRATE OF POTASSIUM—This is Xa safe and efficient agent for the removal of tartar. Also prepared as a tooth powder. Price Is. id., 3s. BLANC DE PERLE.—This innocent and carefully-prepared cosmetique is free from the poison ordinarily used in face white. Is. 3d., 2s. 3d. per case. BLOOM OF ROSES.-A perfectly innocent aid to the complexion. 2s. 6d, per case. GrANTS GRAS POMADE.-A novel form of the well-known Grants Grras of the French and Italian perfumers of the last century. By its use (with soiled white kid gloves) the hands may be rendered beautifully white and soft in a few nights. Is. 6d. per jar. CAPTENE PAINT.— A wonderful external remedy, and instant cure for neuralgia, toothache, rhumatism, sciatica, gout, palpitation, and all local nerve pains. Although so efficacious, it does not dis- colour the skin. Is. 4d., 3s. per bottle. MAY DEW FACE WASH.-A new and valuable preparation. Its effects in im- proving the complexion, and softening and clearing the skin, are wonderful. 3s. per case. SULPHUR SOAP (for the hair).—The natural colour of the hair is due to an organic pigment, into the composition of which sulphur and iron largely enter. It is believed that in many cases grey hair is due solely to a deficiency in this natural secretion of sulphur. In such cases the sulphur may be supplied to the hair glands by occasionally washing the hair and scalp with the above soap. It is most particularly recommended that in cases of incipient greyness this should be tried before artificial colour restorers are resorted to. It is also the best soap for cleansing the hair before applying any dye or colour restorer, as it greatly quickens and enhances their action. It is also of great service for washing the skin in many cases of eruption and skin disease. Is. 3d. THE COLLURION—A fluid compounded on strictly chemical and physiological principles. It accomplishes its purpose of restoring the hair to its pristine hue by its peculiar action on those vessels which secrete its colouring matter, the tempo- rary derangement of which, caused either by accident or disease, leads to a suspen- sion of their functions, and hence pre- mature greyness ensues. It must be borne in mind that the action of the Collurion, being natural, is gradual, and therefore all persons using it must not expect the change to be sudden; on the contrary, it will, according to the nature of the case, take more or less time, but when once restored, an occasional application will preserve the colour to any age. An addi- tional advantage of the Collurion over all dyes consists in its requiring no pomade or oil to be used with it, and its action on the skin, instead of being in- jurious, is positively beneficial. 2s. 6d. per case. COMPLEXION PILLS.—Specially adapted to produce a healthy action of the skin and a clear complexion. If used in con- junction with certain easy rules of diet, their effect is rapid and marvellous. Is. 3d., 2s. lOd. per box. For other Hair Dyes and Colour Restorers see the other Lists,GOUBAUD & SON, 39 & 40, Bedford Street, Covent Garden. Nearly Three-quarters of a Million have already been Sold THE DAISY BOOKS. Select Books by Popular Authors, well printed on good Paper, in handsome Covers. Price 9d. each; Cloth Gilt, 1/6 each. 1. Holden with the Cords. By Mrs. W. M. L. Jay. 2. Jessamine. By Marion Harland. 3. Stepping Heavenward. By Mrs. E. Prentiss 4. The Prince of the House of David. By the Rev. J. H. Ingraham. 5. Aunt Jane's Hero. By Mrs. Prentiss. 6. The Pillar of Fire. By Rev. J. H.Ingraham. 7. Little Women. By Miss L. M. Alcott. 8. Nice Wives. By Miss L. M. Alcott. 9. The Gayworthys. By Mrs. A. D. T. Whitney. 10. The Throne of David. By Rev. J. H. Ingraham. 11. Marjorie's Quest. By Jeanie S. Gould. 12. Shiloh; or,Without and Within. By Mrs. W. M. L. Jay. 13. What Katy Did.—By Susan COOLIDGE. 14. Dunallan. By Grace Kennedy. 15. Melbourne House — Daisy Asks. By Miss Wetherell. 16. Melbourne House — Daisy Learns. By Miss Wetherell. 17. Miss Roberts' Fortune. By Sophy Winthrop. 18. Father Clement. By Miss Grace Kennedy. 19. Melbourne House—Daisy Does. By Miss Wetherell. 20. Tales of our Village. By Miss Mitford. 21. The Flower of the Family. By Mrs. E. Prentiss. 22. The Gates Ajar. By E. Stuart Phelps. 23. What Katy did at School. By Susan Coolidge. 24. Patience Strong's Outings. By Mrs. A. D. T. Whitney. 25. Miss Gilbert's Career. By J. G. Holland. 26. Number Thirteen, and other Tales. By Elizabeh Stuart Phelps. 27. Henry Milner. By Mrs. Sher- wood. 28. Willow Brook; By Elizabeth Wetherell. 29. The Little Camp on Eagle Hill. By Elizabeth Wetherell. 30. Sceptres and Crowns. By E. Wetherell. 31. Amy's Married Life. By Mrs. FOLLEN. 32. Romanceof a PoorYoungMan. By Octave Feuillet. 33. I've been Thinking. By A. S. Roe. 34. True as Steel. By Marion Harland. 35. The Indian Pilgrim. By Mrs. Sherwood. 36. The Silver Skates. By Mrs. Mary Mapes Dodge. 37. Helen's Babies. By their Latest Victim. 38. Ruby's Husband. By Marion Harland. 39. The House of the Seven Gables. By Nathaniel Hawthorne. 40. From my Youth up. By Marion Harland. 41. Walks from Eden. By E. Wetherell. 42. Faith Gartney's Girlhood. By Mrs. A. D. T. Whitney. 43. The Flag of Truce. By E. Wetherell. 44. Leslie Goldthwaite. By Mrs. A. D. Whitney. 45. The House of Israel. By E. Wetherell. 46. Homely Tales, By Sarah Mores.Goubaud & Son, 39 & 40, Bedford Street, London, W.C. "Myra's Journal " deals in a complete and ample way with all the latest novelties in Dress.—Daily Chronicle. Published on the First of each Month, Price 6d., by post, 8d. YRA'S JOURNAL is the most ladylike and economical Fashion Magazine in the world; its increasing circulation in the United Kingdom, the Colonies, Empire of India, and the United States, attests its success and popularity. Each Number contains from 32 to 48 pages letter-press, music size, profusely illustrated with the newest Paris Models of Chapeaux, Mantles, Costumes, and Toilettes for Ladies, Young Ladies, and Children. A BEAUTIFULLY-COLOURED FASHION PLATE, showing the New Modes of Dress, and the Fashionable Colours and Materials. Twice a year, May and November, a TREBLE-SIZE FASHION PLATE is given. A LARGE DIAGRAM SHEET, for cutting out Full-size Models of all kinds of Articles of Dress for Ladies and Children. Cut by the first Couturieres of Paris. A FULL-SIZED CUT-OUT PAPER PATTERN of a Fashion- able Model in every Article of Dress. ORIGINAL ARTICLE FROM PARIS. By the Comtesse de B . SPINNINGS IN TOWN. By The Silkwoem. HINTS AND SUGGESTIONS FOR THE ALTERATION OF DRESSES in a Fashionable and Economical manner. MODELS DIRECT FROM LES GRANDS MAGASINS DU LOUVRE, the First House in Paris, their Latest Fashions, and accounts of what is most in vogue in the Capital of Fashion. Etiquette, Health, and Personal Attention, Needlework, Books and Authors, the Cuisine. House Furniture and Furnishing, Miscellaneous, &c. A FREE EXCHANGE is open to all who have Articles to dispose of or barter for. ft Yx^JS JOURNAL is the acknowledged authority on all Dress, and can be obtained through any Bookseller or Newsagent in the World, or direct from the Publishers,