REPORT ON SURGERY. 331 on the right side, with the pelvis raised, so as to favour spontaneous reduction of the ruptured bowel by its own weight, the only special line of treatment apparently open would be by operation.” The exact seat of obstruction being probably ascertained, and its cause a mecha- nical one, would indicate the propriety of surgical interference, and the success with which Mr. Hilton relieved the strangulation, when its peculiar, anatomical conditions had not yet been recognised, furnishes the best encouragement for a similar plan of treatment. Two other forms are described. A diagrammatic figure is given. Treatment of subclavian aneurism.—Mr. Poland passes on to consider this subject, in the sixteenth volume of the ‘ Gfuy’s Hospital Reports,’ pp. i to 130. The cases summarised at p. 278 of this ‘ Retrospect’ are given in detail. On looking at the column of results, he says, most unsatisfactory terminations will be found, yet he thinks that the plan of leaving the cases without treatment, at all, unjustifiable. We must not, because several cases of spontaneous cure have most fortunately taken place, much to the surprise of the surgeon, expect a like result in others. Respecting “medical” or “general” treatment, he remarks that in only two of thirteen reported cases was the “Valsalva plan” carried out; of these, one recovered and one died. “ These cases offer good examples of this treacherous mode of treatment.” “ There can be no doubt, as some writers state, that a moderate discriminating use of this powerful means may be of benefit in strong, healthy, robust per- sons, but would, of course, be strongly contra-indicated in the feeble, unhealthy, and anaemic. Its beneficial effects in arresting haemorrhage from the lung in haemoptysis, by causing blood coagulation and plug- ging of the vessel, tend to give some weight to the arguments in favour of its adoption for the cure of aneurism.” Digitalis has been freely employed, but without any specific or material effect in the cure of subclavian cases. The same remark applies to antimony. Aconite was used in two cases, in one, without effect, but, in the other, it was taken accidentally in a poisonous dose, causing alarming syncope and prostration, but was followed by coagulation of the contents of the sac and a perfect cure. Refrigerants and ice have been advantageously employed. Direct compression of the tumour, used wdth very great moderation, he considers a remedy of the highest importance for con- sideration. The dangers of “ manipulation” are specified (p. 46). We have only one instance of cure by means of galvano-puncture. The dangers are primary or secondary haemorrhage and cauterization of the skin, followed by sloughing. Lefort’s rules for the employment of this treatment are given. Nine cases of recovery after ligature of the third part of the subclavian are tabulated (p. 76). Two of the patients were females, and seven were males. In six out of the nine the aneurism was on the left side (p. 86). In three the aneurism was entirely of a local character, independent of general, arterial disease, and was truly sub- clavian. The ligature was applied very near to the sac, and the patients recovered without a bad symptom. The twelve patients wbo died alter ligature were all males (p. 114)- The aneurisms were ^ subclavio- axillary, eight being on the right side and three on the left. In one