404 HE POUT ON MIDWIFERY; ETC. down, the Lotus was delivered. The placenta was also adherent. .No haemorrhage, Recovery. Dystocia from the Soft Darts. From displacement.—Mr. Allison relates a ease in which the gravid uterus, between the seventh and eighth months, was entirely prolapsed. He managed to return it into the mother’s abdomen. She was delivered at term of a live child. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869.) From syphilitic induration of cervix.—Dr. Putegnat mentions five cases of this kind where large and indurated ulcerations of the cervix were the cause of difficult parturition. All the confinements were premature. The first case necessitated incision of the os and turning; but the mother sank, after a child, evidently dead for some time, had been extracted. In the four other cases the children all died from two to four days after birth ; but the mothers recovered. With the latter, the parts yielded sufficiently, but the labour was protracted from the weak state of the patients, brought on by the exhausting effects of syphilis. (‘ Journ. de Bruxelles,’ 1870.) Dr. Breisky describes the condition of the cervix uteri during labour. The peculiar condition is, that after recent labour the whole cervix hangs down like a limp curtain around the os uteri internum. The appearances develope themselves gradually: ist, softening; 2nd, elon- gation ; 3rd, paralysis. The softening does not extend beyond the sphincter of the os internum. The elongation takes place not only from distension by the membrane and head, but also independently, as in placenta prrnvia and cross presentations. The paralysis is developed with the pending conditions as a progressive diminution of the contrac- tile property of the cervix during labour. These three states are not explained by bruising and consecutive oedema of the cervical tissue, for they may be observed in abortion at the third month. Their relations to uterine contraction is unmistakable ; they are recognised in uterine action from polypus. (‘ Monatssch. f. Geburtsk.,’ 1869.) Retarded labour from rigidity of the cervix uteri has been success- fully met in these cases by the subcutaneous injection of preparations of opium. By Dr. C. W. Shaw (‘Med. Press and Circular,’ 1870), chloral hydrate has been successfully used for the same purpose (see chloral hydrate). Labour obstructed by cicatrix of the vagina from a burn. E. W. Willoughby, M.B., relates a case in which a dense fibrous band resem- bling tendon in structures left by a burn occluded the vagina. Labour was induced at seven months. It was necessary to incise the cicatrix freely ; the child then passed alive. (‘ Obstetrical Trans.,’ 1870.) From tumours.—Dr. Gibbs relates a remarkable case of a pilo- cystic tumour complicating pregnancy. A pluripara was taken in labour at term, and was delivered by forceps. Some days afterwards a tumour the size of a turkey’s egg, firm, tender, movable, was discovered to the right of the uterus. About two months later it had increased to the size of the largest shaddock, and there was great suffering. Gas- trotomy was determined upon. The tumour was fluctuating ; a trocar