REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 394 enlargement during pregnancy may be determined. 2. That during the first day of the labour the left cavities of the heart diminish, the right remaining enlarged. 3. That at the time of the milk-flow, about the third day, the heart becomes elongated ; it remains enlarged during suckling, and diminishes when the woman does not suckle. 4. That in women who have had many children the heart is larger than in those who have had only one or two. (‘ Gazette des Hop.,’ 1868.) Diagnosis.—Professor Massarenti has subjected to fresh clinical and critical examination the question how far the auscultation of the foetal heart can give evidence of the presentation of the foetus at the end of gestation. Referring to the generally received facts that in head-pre- sentations the foetal heart is heard at a level below the umbilicus, and in breech-presentation above that level, he examines the objection urged by Belluzzi against relying on this evidence. Belluzzi’s case was that of a woman examined after the waters had long escaped, and when the uterus had been contracting spasmodically; Belluzzi found the foetal sound to the left of the median line and for several centimeters below the umbilicus, and says if he had relied upon this sign he must have concluded that the head presented. But the breech presented. Mas- sarenti replies that the contracting uterus had driven the breech down, and that hence the liver was not invalidated. Belluzzi declares, contrary to most observers, that the foetal heart is heard loudest nearer to the breech than to the head; and hence a new mode of interpreting evi- dence of auscultation. He recommends to measure the height of the uterus from its lower segment to fundus, and then having found the area of the foetal heart-sounds, to conclude that most probably the ex- tremity nearest to this area is the breech. He affirms that this is actually the case in a great number of observations made before labour, and in new-born children. Massarenti, on the other hand, examining the foetus as it is packed in utero with the head flexed, affirms that the cardiac sound is nearer to the vertex. (‘Med. Gazette of Bologna,’ 1870.) B. Schultze disputes (‘ Jenaisch. Ztsch. f. Med.,’ 1866) the correct- ness of attributing the scar streaks on the front of the thigh to preg- nancy. In 222 females between 15 and 35 years old, who had perfectly smooth scarless bellies, and who had never had children, he found the streaks on the thighs in 80 per cent. Similar streaks are sometimes found in men, but much more rarely. Schultze is inclined to attribute them in women to the great transverse growth in the region of the hips at puberty. Dr. E. Strohl, of Strasbourg, has examined the value of certain ad- mitted signs of anterior pregnancy, basing his conclusions on the obser- vation of nearly 350 women. First, as to the transverse fissure of the os uteri. It presents great differences. In 10 cases where there had been no pregnancy, he found it quite as great as in cases where preg- nancy had existed. 2. The lateral fissures. They are of great value when they exist, but their absence does not exclude an anterior preg- nancy. 3. The oracles in the slcin of the abdomen are of high value. Where they exist the probability that pregnancy has existed is very great. But Strohl says they are not always easy to find ; they are m