219 CHANGES IN LIMBS ALTER RESECTIONS. near the last molar tooth. The end of the chain-saw is then carried into the mouth by means of the needle, and, the small opening in the mucous membrane having been slight enlarged, and the skin and mucous membrane being protected by spatulie, the bone is sawn through. The mucous membrane of the alveolar edge of the portion to be divided is then cut through, and the membrane with the periosteum is raised from the bone by means of curved and straight raspatories. The bone is then divided at the other end of the portion to be removed. If this be in the vicinity of the incisor teeth, the best plan is to cut through the jaw with Signoroni’s bone forceps. If the bone must be divided further back, a small vertical incision should be made in the skin to allow the passage of a narrow or chain-saw; but if the disease extend as far back as the posterior molars, the operation which was done on the other side should be repeated. When the bone has been completely sawn through, it is readily removed through the mouth by bone forceps. In this operation no artery of any importance is iujured, with the exception of the dental, which, in cases of phosphorus necrosis, is generally already rendered impervious by disease. If haemorrhage should occur, the actual cautery should be applied. Gritti relates one case in which he performed this operation on account of phosphorus necrosis, in a young woman aged 21. The patient died on the eighth day of erysipelas; effusion into the cerebral ventricles was also found after death. There was little or no inflammation in the parts operated on. Changes in limbs after resections.—M. Sedillot describes the condition of the lower extremity of a boy, the head of whose femur he had excised four years previously. The method of operation he adopted enabled him to save the ligaments and to saw the head of the bone in the aceta- bulum without previously dislocating it. Since the operation the child (a boy of thirteen) had had excellent use of the limb. Flexion, extension, adduction, and rotation were as perfect as on the healthy side. Abduc- tion alone was diminished. On placing the hand on the trochanter it was easily felt that a joint had been formed at the upper edge of the old articulation. The limb is slightly atrophied in its whole length, but the patient walks and runs with freedom on tiptoe without any raised shoe. Two months after the operation the shortening was less than an inch. Four years afterwards the shortening had in- creased to three inches. The femur, between the great trochanter and the knee, was one inch shorter than the other, and the leg had under- gone a similar shortening. The resection of its head seems, therefore, to have exercised no direct shortening influence on the femur, as the leg from which no bone was removed lost as much length as the femur. Want of exercise had probably been the cause of the relative shortness. A case operated on, in 1858, by Dr. Saire (Sayre F), and seen again fourteen years after, exhibited a shortening of little more than half an inch, proving that in it the growth of the limb had not been interfered with.. This case and others will be found in the work of Dr. Good. Fie gives statistics of 112 cases of excision of the hip. Of the whole, 52 were cured and 60 died. The proportion of deaths is, in France* 8571 percent.; in Russia, 6667 ; in Germany, 6471; in America,