REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 6t epidemic at Donaldson’s Hospital—thirty-one cases in children, and two in adults, all recovering; the disease appears to have been traced to a neglected drain. Baginsky (‘ Virch. Arch.,’ xlix, 50 3) describes an epidemic of typhoid fever in the isolated village of Seehausen.* There was a striking rarity of rose-spots. He could not trace its origin or progress to contagion. Buhl (‘ Zeitsch. f. Biol.’) says that when subsoil water is above the average for the month, cases of enteric fever are less frequent; when it is deficient they increase. Seidel finds the concomitant variation so regular that he calculates it is 36,000 to 1 against the connection being accidental. Jessen comes to the same result by another method of calculation; so also Thomas (‘ Archiv d. Heilk.,’ vii, 383). These opinions confirm Pettenkofer’s conclusions from the statistics furnished by the sanitary department at Munich. Indeed, the only exception known in Germany at this period is that of Konigsberg, where there does not seem to be this inverse relation between the amount of subsoil water and the prevalence of typhoid fever. Cold water (bath 68° F.; or packing; or affusion) in typhoid is re- commended whenever the temperature rises above io4°F. (Jiirgensen), or above jo2'2° F. (Liebermeister). The latter uses the bath at iuter- vals of two hours, keeping the patient in it for ten minutes. He also em- ploys calomel in ten-grain doses; and iodine gr. (with a very little iodide of potassium) every two hours. When the cold water was used sparingly there were 130 deaths in 839 cases; when freely used, 33 deaths in 339. Jiirgensen had only 6 deaths in 230 cases. Czernicki (“ Etude clinique sur la fievre typhoide, sa physiologie pathologique, sa marche et ses indications therapeutiques ‘ Strasbourg thesis,’ abstracted in ‘Arch. Gen. de Med.,’ 1869, ii, 340) recognises two periods of fever, the first due to the primary infection of the poison, the temperature curve of which is typical and invariable; the second, the “ abdominal period,” that of secondary infection, as already named by Hirtz, the duration of which is variable. The first, the erup- tive period, corresponding pathologically to the infiltration of Peyer’s patches; the second, the suppurative, to their ulceration and cicatriza- tion, which may be more or less retarded. With respect to treatment, the author believes it possible to obtain a decrease of the fever without arresting the local processes, and lays weight upon the success obtained by Hirtz in the use of digitalis. The indications of the second period he believes to point to the evacuation of the matters loading the intes- tines, the neutralisation of the putrid elements, the absorption of which is to be avoided, and the re-establishment of the general health. Starting with the theory that in enteric fever we have to do with the result produced by an organized ferment acting through the blood upon the tissues, and the reaction of the latter against it, and making use of Bechamp’s researches on the effects of creosote upon this form of fer- ment, Pecholier (‘ Arch. Gen. de Med,’ 1869, i, 626) gives the results of its administration to sixty patients, and concludes that, though in * Seehausen is in Prussian Saxony, on an affluent of the Elbe between Stendall and Wittenberge. The above paper contains an interesting account of the whole economy of a North German village.