72 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. treatment consisted of the salts of iron and quinine, baths, and the induced current. Keith ( Lancet, 1869, i, 143) gave carbolic acid in 600 cases of scar- et fever, measles and smallpox, five ODly of which were fatal. The physiological effects are said to be—1, profuse sweating; 2, rapid lower- ing of the pulse; 3, cleaning of the tongue, and in scarlet fever dimi- nution m the soreness of the throat; 4, improved appetite; 5, the earlier it is given the more useful it is ; 6, in some cases it gives a smoky ap- pearance to the urine. He employed the following mixtureCarbolic and acetic acids, of each 5j—5iss ; tincture of opium, jj; chloric ether, 5j ; water to 8 oz.; a table-spoonful every four hours till the fever had subsided. Kugelmann (‘Deut. Klin.,’ 1869, s. 156) considers that the first therapeutical indication in all the acute exanthemata is to establish a system of continuous ventilation, without exposing the patient to the direct draught, by leaving the door and window open day and night. Insisting strongly that the fauces in scarlet fever should be carefully watched for diphtheritic deposit, he employs, when this complication arises, the method of Dyes—chlorine water and distilled water, of each a teaspoonful every hour, till all traces of the deposit have disappeared. In the course of twelve years he has treated in this way 500 cases of measles and 1 jo of scarlet fever between the ages of eight months and thirty-eight years, without losing a single patient, and, except in one case, without meeting with a single severe complication or sequela; and he thinks he may conclude (1) that under this treatment the diseases in question become most trifling affections ; (2) and that the so-called malignant epidemics are the result of bad treatment (artefacte). Thomas (‘ Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,’1870, iv, 1) publishes fresh observa- tions on the simultaneous occurrence of two acute exanthemata. He gives four cases: —Varicella and scarlet fever in a girl aet. 4 years; scarlet fever and varicella in a girl set. 1 ^ year; varicella and measles in a girl set. 1 year ; measles and varicella in a boy, set. 2 years ; vari- cella thus occurring twice as the primary, twice as the secondary affec- tion. It is, perhaps, worth noticing that when varicella is followed by scarlet fever or measles, the latter diseases are of unusually trifling in- tensity, while in cases in which varicella succeeds them, its eruption is in some cases a protracted one, and in others accompanied by rather in- tense pyrexia ; the whole process consequently being more severe. In no case, however, was the characteristic appearance of the eruption altered. In conclusion, just as in these cases there was but little difference in the essential disturbance, viz., that of the skin, there was little difference also in the characteristic symptoms, though, in accordance with the lighter nature of the general affection, they were less marked; in consequence there were wanting, more especially, the red tongue with its swollen papillse and clean surface and the catarrh of the mucous membranes, corresponding respectively to scarlet fever and measles. The paper con- cludes with an analysis of a number of cases observed by other authors. Blache (‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1870, 146) gives two cases of the simulta- neous eruption of measles and scarlet fever. The first occurred in a girl, set. 3 years, who had been among children convalescent from scar-