REPORT ON SURGERY. 0 50 <V O ,-J to be able to cause the disappearance of turaour3 without the produc- tion of visible cicatrices (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Dec. 11, 1869.) Pi/csmia.—M. Guerin has propounded (before the Academy of Medi- cine of Paris) the theory that pyaemia is a kind of typhus, a surgical typhus, excited by miasmatic emanations. Ague is engendered by marsh miasmata, purulent infection by animal miasmata. (‘Lancet,’ Jan. 22, 1870.) Dr. Joseph Bell records three cases of recovery after well-marked symptoms of pyaemia. In each case there was probably a secondary abscess of the lung, as the patient spat up a quantity of pus; and in the third case a patient also passed pus by the urine as if from an abscess in the kidney, and by the bowels as if from an abscess in the liver. The first was one of abscess of the tibia, for which trephining was practised, and finally amputation after a rigor had occurred. The second was one of compound fracture, for which secondary amputation was performed for gangrene. The third was a case of primary amputation of the thigh, followed by hospital gangrene. In the charge of the cases Dr. Bell directed his attention, not to any hope of “finding antidotes or of chemically acting on the poison he treated them on general princi- ples, gave hot drinks for the rigors, and postponed any dressings if one was impending. (‘Edin. Med, Journ.,’ Jan. 1870.) Slcin-grafting.—Mr. Pollock showed cases, on which he had operated, to the Clinical Society. In relating the particulars of the first case in which skin-grafting had been attempted in this country, he stated that in 1869 M. Reverdin originated in Paris this method of treating large ulcerated surfaces. In May, 1870, he himself first heard of these ex- periments, and at once decided to put the plan to the test. A girl, eight years of age, had been in St. George’s Hospital for some three months and a half with an extensive open burn of the thigh of two years’ duration. The wound extended from the buttock to the knee. Two small pieces of the skin of the abdomen, the size of millet-seeds, were transplanted. Subsequently three, and again other pieces, in all about fourteen, were grafted. In about five months the whole of the exten- sive wound had very nearly healed, and without any perceptible con- traction of the cicatricial tissue originated by the transplanted skin. In this case two pieces of black skin had been on one occasion trans- planted to the ulcerated surface, and had become attached. When they increased in size the area of the pigment deposit had considerably in- creased in one of them, although the whole of the cicatricial tissue due to transplantation of this portion of skin was not generally dark coloured. The sore was attacked some time after by sloughing, which was chiefly confined to one portion, in which the black skin had become engrafted, and unfortunately destroyed the whole of the cicatrix due to this trans- plantation. Mr. Pollock usually transplanted very small pieces, similar to the plan pursued by M. Reverdin, and considered it essential to the success1 of the operation that the surface of the granulations should be in a healthy state. In some cases the operation had entirely failed iu consequence of the state of the sore. In other cases, though one piece