113 APHASIA. Aphasia. Bastian (‘Med. Chir. Rev.,’ xliii, 209) commences his paper with an inquh'y as to the relations existing between the several forms ol loss of speech” in cerebral diseases, and attempts to explain the phenomena presented in the various classes by the doctrine of the physio ogy o spoken thought, according to which words are revived m the cerebral hemispheres as remembered sounds in an unconscious and automatic manner, calling into play, on the exertion of the requisite volition, the various muscles necessary for the articulation of sound. lie gives the following table of the relations of the various forms of loss oi speech to one another: 1. Absence of wish to speak, e. g. in some cases of insanity, and perhaps of hysterical aphonia. " 2. Various forms of paralysis and incoor- dination of memory. Amnesic defects. 3. Memory existing, and words being revived as remembered sounds, the mecha- nism by wbich these excite the automatic acts of speech is interfered with. Ataxic ^defects. Slightly, from paralysis of ninth nerve, &c., in cases of hemiplegia, with or without co-existing “ aphasia.” {5. In some severe cases of hemiplegia, either with or without co-existing “aphasia.” 6. Advanced cases of glosso-laryngeal paralysis. Loss or Speech. Ability to articulate unimpaired. Ability to articulate impaired. Wish to speak existing. Gravely. Of the second form, defects of memory, he distinguishes two subdi- visions ; paralytic defects, shown by (1) momentary forgetfulness and confusion about names and nouns, with power of recovery after a time, or more permanent and habitual forgetfulness, with attempts to remedy this by the employment of a periphrasis : (2), sudden and momentary loss of the “thread of thought:” (3), inability to continue any train of thought at all after the slightest interruption ; and incoordinate defects, seen in (1) forgetfulness of the word wanted, most marked with respect to nouns, with a consciousness of mistake when the wrong one is employed: (2), the same forgetfulness without the consciousness of the last: the less associated the word or sound uttered is to the word which should have been employed, the greater probably is the impairment of memory: (3), recollection of the suitable words, which are uttered with- out any proper order or sequence: (4), ability to use certain verbal forms only, e.g., the infinitive mood only: (5), transposition, more or less regular, of the letters of a word, e.g., gum for mug : (6) almost invariable substitution of certain letters for others, e. g., z for f Instead of the name “amnesic aphasia” proposed by Sanders for these forms, Bastian would use “amnesia verbalis,” or “amnesia” simply. Beiore commencing an analysis of the cases more especially included under the term aphasia, he draws attention to some of the phenomena involved in thinking and speaking, the consideration of which leads him 8