36 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. tors with, regard to inflammation (‘ Studien aus dem Institut fur Ex- perimentelle Pathologie in Wien, aus dem Jahre 1869,’ Wien, 1870). In it Strieker asserts definitely that he has seen the division in inflamma- tion of the corneal cells, and also of certain cells in the tongue of the frog; that pus-corpuscles take their origin from various sources, and not only from the blood-vessels; that the process of inflammation is accom- panied by an increase in certain functions of the cellular elements in- volved in the process. He lays great stress upon exudation, which, he thinks, Virchow has underrated; and believes it to be doubly important, in that (1) the current acts as a mechanical stimulus; (2) the fluid of the blood has an influence as a material for nutrition. lie declares that the phenomena of inflammation have the following succession, no one of the signs, taken by itself, being decisive :—Injury, disturbance of the circulation, exudation of fluid and formed elements, disturbance of nutrition, and new growth ; that several structures, in consequence of the process of inflammation, are deprived of their functional ends, and reduced to a condition in which there is a tendency to procreation, i. e., they become active, accumulate in masses, and divide either partially, wholly, or not at all. As bearing more or less upon this subject, the following note may not be out of place here. Bechamp and Estor, from their further experi- ments on the properties and physiological rule of the molecular granu- lations to which they give the name microzymes, conclude Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ 1870, p. 91) : 1. The blood-cells are aggregations of microzymes. 2. These microzymes may appear as (evoluer en) beads, bacteria, bac- teridia, &c.; as all those hitherto studied. 3. They behave like ferments. 4. The microzymes of the blood-globules give rise to cells resembling leucocytes, and other cells much smaller, more approaching globules ; in all probability the blood-globule is organically the result of the action of these microzymes. Bechamp and Estor have observed wEat may be called the analysis and synthesis of the blood-corpuscle ; they have seen it resolve itself into microzymes, and thus have ascertained the formation of cells ana- logous to leucocytes, or red corpuscles in fluids containing only these same molecular granulations. Other papers are: Schklarewski, “Prof. Kolomon Balogli und die ‘Auswanderung,”’ ‘Virch. Archiv,’ xlvi, 116 (critique of the arguments advanced by Balogh against Cohnheim’s statements, the’insufficiency of which is shown); Samuel, “ Ueber Entziindung und Brand,” < Centralbl.,’ 1869, p. 812, and • Virch. Arch.,’ li, 41 ; ib., “Der Einfluss der Nerven auf Vollendun^ des Collateralkreislaufs,” ‘ Centralbl.,’ 1869, p. 385 ; Hayem, “ Note sur les phenomenes consecutifs a, la stasis veineuse, &c.,” ‘ Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ pp. 195, 255; Chalvet “ Phvsiologie pathologicjue de ^inflammation}3 (** thesis, abstracted in Aicli. Gen de’Med rS6o ii, 431); Woodward, “Report on certain Points connected with the Histlgy of Minute Blood-vessels,” ‘Quart. Journ. of Micro. Sci.,’ ,870, Oct., p 380 ; Strieker and Sanderson, “ On a New Method of Studying the Capillary Circula- tioii in Mammals,’ ib., p. 362; Caton,* “ Contribution to the Cell-migration Theory, * Caton found that migration did not take place in the mesentery of frogs while in