149 ORIGIN OF CARDIAC MURMURS, ETC. aortic orifice i$ smaller than the pulmonic, because the arteries of the former system are longer than those of the latter. Bayer (‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ x, i) refers the origin of the first sound of the heart mainly to the contraction of the ventricular muscle. He re- lies for his cliief argument on the frequent coincidence of altered, diffused, or roughened first sound, with microscopic as well as naked-eye changes in the muscle in cases in which the valves are normal, whereas in slight affections of the valves, with normal muscular tissue, the first sound was always clear. After insisting that this view of its origin agrees with the phenomena of auscultation in health and disease, he suggests the possibility that accidental murmurs may arise from contraction of the muscle. ‘As to the possible share of the auriculo-ventricular valves in originating the first sound, he would wish to see it confirmed by further observations. In another paper he gives (ib., 270) a detailed history of a case of complicated valvular disease, which certainly seems to support the view as to the origin of the first sound in muscular contraction. On the other hand, Gruttmann (‘ Yirch. Arch.,’ xlvi, 223) considers that the origin of the first sound is to be sought in valve-tension. In repeating the experiments of Ludwig and Dogiel, by auscultating the heart of a dog, from which the blood was completely excluded, he found that the first sound was persistent, though weaker and altered in character. He holds that even in a heart thus emptied of blood the contraction of the papillary muscles is still able to cause a certain amount of valve-tension, and concludes therefore, in opposition to these two observers, that the first sound is essentially due to tension of the auriculo-ventricular valves, and only partly to the muscular contraction of the heart. As a convincing argument against Bayer’s conclusions, and in support of his own views, he puts forward the fact, stated by Traube, that in advanced cases of aortic insufficiency the first sound is completely inaudible at the apex. This may be easily explained on the supposition that it is a valve sound. It depends, as Traube shows, on the difference in tension of the mitral valve at the commencement and end of the ventricular systole. The smaller the difference between the tension at those two periods the less marked will be the vibrations, and the first sound therefore weak; if the difference in tension be reduced still lower, no sound will be heard. He concludes with the remark that his experiment proves in addition that the second sound heard over the ventricles originates in the arteries, and is only con- ducted over the former, disappearing altogether if, by tightening the ligatures, blood is prevented from entering the heart. The same author (ib., xlvi, 105) draws attention to the views of Geigel (‘Wivrzburger Verhandl.,’ 1868, i. s. 49), who explains the reduplicated second sound, which he observed in six cases running, to depend upon non-synchro- nous closure of the right and left ventricles, the pulmonai’y valve closing after the aortic from emptiness of the left and fulness of the right ventricle, and the first part of the sound being thus due to the aortic, and the second to the pulmonary valves. Guttmann states that in about forty cases he heard it in less than a fourth. When the heart beats violently, it is lost in a murmur. He does not look