99 RHEUMATISM. sometimes in the acute stage of the rheumatism and are fre^uently m direct relation with the onset and remission of the articulai affection, in children especially the former, m adults the latter. Generally, - ever, the nervous symptoms make their first appearance after the rheumatism has abated. (3) In no case does the delirium show itself as a premonitory symptom of rheumatism, while m children frequently been observed to do this by Koger and Henoch He gives a case of repeated attacks of rheumatism, in a boy set 8, since Ins second year, the last being accompanied by disturbance of the sensonum, chorea, and a contraction of the lower extremities, the latter occurring without any previous rheumatic affection of the hip-joint. The author thinks this contraction was due to mischief in the central nervous apparatus, perhaps a slight cerebro-spinal meningitis. Simon, of Hamburg (‘Ann. der Charite Krankenh., Bd. xv, s. 120), brings forward fresh cases of delirium, &c., in the course of acute articular rheumatism, and keeps to the view he held in a former number of this series (Bd. xiii, Heft. 2, 1863), that they depend on anaemia caused by disease of the heart, though some of course may be the direct result of alcohol or tubercular meningitis. Murchison (‘ Lancet,’ 1870, i, 724) gives a case of acute rheumatism in a carman, set. 26, in which the temperature rose to 109-3° twenty minutes before death. Wilson Fox (ib., ii, 7) records the history of a housemaid, set. 30, who suffered from acute rheumatism with pericardial effusion, and whose temperature at midnight of the second day before her death rose rapidly to 107-8°, the patient being violently delirious ; a full bleeding was tried without any good effect, the temperature rising in the next hour to 108-9°. Sim was then placed from time to time in a cold bath (6o°), and the temperature fell; but unfortunately she died nearly thirty-six hours after the commencement of the treatment. Fox con- siders that the protraction of life for so long a time after the tempera- ture had reached so high a point, was due to the cold bath. Moller (‘ Berl. Ivlin. Woch.,’ 1869, 134) gives an account of a case of so-called peliosis rheumatica, which clearly marks the connection of this affection with thrombosis, in a man set. 46, who had suffered from acute articular rheumatism in the early part of 1868. In the spring a short systolic blowing murmur was heard over the origin of the aorta, without any disturbance of function, or enlargement of the heart. About the same time small haemorrhagic spots appeared, off and on, with sudden increase of pain, on different parts of the skin of the ex- tremities. Towards the end of the summer these appearances became more frequent, and extended to the deeper-lying parts; on the hands and feet especially were developed very suddenly hot, very painful, more or less red, circumscribed swellings, in the centre of which could be felt a hard haemorrhagic knot, which, from its superficial position, shone with a bluish colour through. In October the right hand was attacked with paresis and painful dulness of feeling ; the pulse had disappeared in the radial, and was almost gone in the ulnar artery ; 1"—2" below the aponeurosis of tho biceps could be felt, deeply, a cord-like, very sensitive tumour. On Dec. 8, without any warning, the patient was