REPORT ON SURGERY. 218 and 6, 1869, will be found a learned and exhaustive paper on resection of the ribs, by M. Demarquay. Resection of the wrist-joint.—Dr. Gillespie notes two cases in which he performed excision of the wrist. He practised one incision in the middle line of the dorsal aspect of the wrist, about three inches long. The skin was first dissected a little to each side, and the joint opened on the outer side of the extensor tendons of the fingers. These and the extensors of the thumb were held out of the way by hooks, and the extremities of the ulna and radius exposed and removed. The carpal bones were next attacked and dug out, partly by means of the scalpel and partly by the scraper, the palmar relations being very slightly disturbed. Any portions of the metacarpus requiring it were then dealt with. The wound was subsequently dressed antiseptically. Woodcuts of the condition of the wrists about ten weeks after the operations are given, and in the first case (that of a young woman) a specimen of the handwriting about four months after the operation. The second case was that of a little girl six years old. “ The power of movement of the fingers and thumb quickly returned, and with still more freedom than in E. L.’s (the first) case.” (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Dec. 1870.) Dr. Watson has practised a radial incision for excision of the wrist. (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Sept. 1870.) Subperiosteal resection of the lower jaw.—Dr. It. Gritti, of Milan, has devised and described an operation for removal of the lower jaw. A translation of his essay on the subject is given in the ‘ Wiener Med. Wochenschr.’ for Eeb. 19, 1870. He says that three principal methods have been proposed—first, that of Dupuytren (1812), characterised by large incisions through the skin ; second, that of Signoroni, named by him subcutaneous, in which the bone was removed through the mouth; thirdly, that of Larghi (1855), who made the cutaneous incision of the French, and removed the bone subperiosteally. Pallavacini has en- deavoured to combine the methods of Signoroni and Larghi, so as to remove the bone by subperiosteal section through the mouth. The method proposed by Gritti is as follows. A vertical incision, about two centimetres long, is made about one and a half centimetres in front of the posterior border of the ramus of the lower jaw. The incision is carried through the skin and fasciae, and the anterior border of the parotid is pressed back by the point of the finger. No harm, however, is done if the surgeon at once divide the soft parts down to the bone. Much haemorrhage is not likely to occur; the Stenonian duct lies too high for a fistulous opening to be formed in it; some branches of the facial nerve are indeed in danger, but experience has shown that the paralysis produced by their division disappears in time. _ After the incision has been made the patient’s mouth is opened sufficiently wide to allow the forefinger of the left hand to be introduced. With the right hand a strong curved chain-stitch needle is passed round the hinder border of the ramus, carried along its inner surface, and brought out at the anterior edge through the mucous membrane of the cheek,