292 REPORT ON SURGERY. l'he wound may be put together in the ordinary way, and it should be covered with linen or lint wetted with a solution of five grains to the ounce. The covering should be kept constantly wet. The wound should be washed and dressed after twenty-four hours with the weak solution. Mr. Morgan has had rapid cures in crushed and lacerated wounds ; perfect union by first intention in large operations, as high amputation of the thigh ; and, very commonly, union with only slight suppuration in the course of the wound, and this where ligatures have been placed on vessels requiring them. Pyaemia, no doubt, will ensue in spite of all precautions, but is rendered much less frequent. In the ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Sept. 3, 1870, Mr. Lister gives simple directions for the application of antiseptic dressings to gunshot wounds, and explains the object of the different steps. Gunshot wounds of the head.—There are interesting articles on this subject in ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ Nov. 19 and Dec. 10, 1870, and also by Prof. Longmore in the new edition of ‘ Holmes’s System of Surgery,’ vol. 2. Treatment of the sick and wounded in war.—In the course of some remarks on the treatment of the sick and wounded in war, Mr. Berkeley Hill lays stress on the importance of segregation and the admission of a quantity of pure air. Often it has been noticed that the patients who were most exposed had a smaller mortality than those who were better housed, but crowded and without proper ventilation. He then gives a summary of the recent discussion respecting large hospitals, and passes on to describe the German Barack-Lazarethen. The most successful military hospitals of modern times have been constructed on the plan first devised in the Crimea by Mr. Brunei. Under the instruc- tion of the sanitary officers the hut hospitals have proved that certainly hospital fever and hospital gangrene, and probably pyaemia (diseases which have destroyed so many of the wounded in former wars), can be entirely prevented in military hospitals. A short description of one at Saarbriiclt will suffice. In an open garden, clear of the town, the series of single-roomed huts which formed the hospital were arranged in a double row, each hut being separated from its neighbours by a-space equal to its own height. Light and air could thus penetrate freely around. The ground was well drained, a distinct system of pipe-sewers carried away the excreta, &c., and the water supply was good. The huts, built of rough, weather boarding, were raised on stages two feet above the ground, so that air penetrated freely between the planks of the walls, the floor, and the roof. At the floor-level apertures for the admission of air were left, and the ridge of the roof was lifted above the rest, to afford an easy exit for the heated air of the interior. The windows were partly of glass, but chiefly of light shutters that could be raised or lowered at pleasure. Each hut contained about fifteen beds. The kitchen and medical offices, &c., were in separate huts. In the huts visited not one case of pyaunia had occurred. One of these hut hospitals is being prepared to receive 1300 patients in an open space near Berlin, under the superintendence of Prof. Virchow.