461 POISONING. of lead from the filtrate by means of sulphuretted hydrogen gas, and recrystallisation of the picrotoxine from the aqueous solution, the chemical reactions of picrotoxine are next described, and also the results of physiological experiments. _ > . , Strychnine.—A remarkable case of poisoning by this alkaloid is pub- lished by MM. Tardieu and Koussin,* in which the patient appears to have survived a dose of at least fifteen grains of the poison for a period of eighteen hours. A kept mistress, whose age is not stated, came home at i a.m. drunk. Her companions stated that, ten minutes later, she was seized with convulsions. She uttered cries, and vomited small quantities of an apparently alcoholic fluid. There appeared to be much pain in the epigastrium, and the efforts to vomit were repeated. At 8 a.m. she appeared to be better, and she was then dressed. At io a.m. severe tremors supervened; the face was livid, and the pupils dilated. She passes some urine under her. The convulsive movements continued, especially on touching her. At n a.m. she complained of pains in the legs; the application of the hand to the abdomen caused the countenance to change colour, and brought on rigors. At 7 p.m. prostration succeeded to excitement, and she was delirious. She still, however, possessed sufficient lucidity to state that a certain person had given her a white powder in a glass of wine. She was placed in a cab and taken to the hospital, but on her arrival life was found to be extinct. At the section, eleven grains of strychnine were scraped off the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal. The poison was seen adhering to the glandular structures in small, white, shining dots. About three grains more of strychnine were extracted from the viscera. M. Tardieu justly remarks that this is an extraordinary case. The fatal dose was largely in excess of that ordinarily required to produce death, and much of the alkaloid had escaped absorption. Again, although the exact period of administration could not be determined, the girl undoubtedly survived the first explosion of the symptoms six- teen hours, a period which could scarcely have been expected, seeing how much of the poison still remained in the stomach unabsorbed. The authors refer to cases which they have previously related, in one of which the patient survived seven hours; in another, an infant survived the supervention of the symptoms of poisoning four hours. M. Paul Bertf draws attention to the antagonism between the action of this alkaloid and that of carbolic acid. To a dog, in which both vagi nerves had been divided, a poisonous dose of carbolic acid was ad- ministered. A grain of sulphate of strychnia (i. e. a sixfold fatal dose) was subsequently administered by subcutaneous injection. Death re- sulted in three quarters of an hour, without any of the usual symptoms of strychnine poisoning being observed. In order to determine whether this immunity was due to a direct action of the acid upon the alkaloid, or whether it was the result of exhaustion of the sensory cells of the cord in consequence of carbolic-acid poisoning preventing the manifes- tation of the symptoms of strychnine poisoning, the following experi- ment was performed :—A fatal dose of carbolic acid was given to a dog, * ‘Ann. d’Hyg.,’ xxxiv, p. 128. f ‘ Gaz. de Paris,’ 1870, 11, p. 145; ‘ Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ 147, p. 270.