THE PUERPERAL STATE. 427 Pelvic cellulitis.—C. J. Cullingworth relates a case (‘Obstet. Trans.,’ 1870) illustrated by thermometric observations. The greatest rise was ioc°, which took place at the commencement of the inflammation. With some fluctuations it fell in eighteen days to 101 . The higies pulse rarely corresponded with the highest temperature ; it was 12b. Throughout, this relation was tolerably preserved. Mr. Begg relates a remarkable case of gangrene of the four extremi- ties following labour. E. R—, act. 21, was delivered of a healthy boy on the 24th March, 1869, was admitted into the Dublin Infirmary on the 25th May. La- bour was protracted; nourishment insufficient. She quite recovered from confinement, got about; when about six weeks after labour she was seized with an itchy sensation in both her hands ; a little spot ap- peared on the tip of the nose, ears, hands, and feet, then numbness. She had about sixty-five grains of ergot in two doses during labour. She had always suffered from coldness in the extremities, even in summer. On admission, the marks of gangrene were manifest. On the. 14th June lines of demarcation were formed. On the 17th amputation of both legs about the middle was performed. The anterior tibial arte- ries were found pervious as far as they could be traced. On the 9th July the arms were amputated above the wrist. The patient perfectly recovered. Mr. Begg does not think the ergot given during labour was the cause of the gangrene; there was certainly no ossification of the arteries, no heart disease. He attributes origin to her natural feeble- ness of circulation in the extremities, aggravated by poor living and the exhaustion following labour. (‘ Lancet,’ 1870.) Puerperal convulsions.—This condition is discussed and illustrated by cases by Dr. Hall Davis (‘Obstetr. Trans.,’ 1869). He believes the mortality from convulsions has been much diminished since the days of W. Hunter, stating that in the practice of Ramsbotham it was only one in fourteen, and in his own one in eleven. He attributes this to the better modern treatment and to the use of chloroform. In the sthenic form Davis favours venesection. If labour have begun, he advises rupture of the membranes only where there is reason to believe that the liquor amnii is greatly in excess. Otherwise, he recommends first to dilate the os by Barnes’ dilators under chloroform. After nar- rating 35 cases, he analyses them. In 15 the convulsions occurred in the first pregnancy, in 8 they set in before labour, in 15 during labour, in 9 after labour ; 18 cases were treated by bleeding, 7 by chloroform ; 27 recovered. The 7 who took chloroform recovered. Dr. Mendel relates the history and describes the condition found in the brain of a woman who died in convulsions after labour. In a first pregnancy the patient, jet. 26, who had always been healthy, was deli- vered by forceps. Three hours afterwards convulsions set in, with loss of consciousness. Consciousness returned in a few hours, but the patient continued for nine days completely speechless. There was no other kind ot paralysis. Speech gradually returned, and at the end of the third week she appeared to have quite recovered. Two years later she was again delivered normally of a full-grown child. She went on well for a week, when, after a strong exertion, prolapsus uteri took