SURGERY. 357 and answering to von Gtraefe’s description of muscular hyperasthesia. Pressure upon the point of emergence of the supra-orbital nerve relaxed the spasm, and neurotomy caused it to cease entirely. In October the spasm suddenly reappeared in the former degree. The anaesthesia left by the neurotomy had disappeared. The spasm was relaxed by pressure upon the orbital foramen, either superior or inferior, and on the third day after the return of the spasm there was deep injection of the ciliary region, with profuse lachrymation and neuralgia. Vision and accommodation were normal. Atropine and local depletions brought about the cure of the ophthalmia by the eleventh day ; but it returned, and displayed rapid alternations of greater and less irritation, while the spasm continued constant. As all remedies tried were without effect, division of the inferior orbital nerve was per- formed ; and although the anaesthesia scarcely extended beyond the internal half of the eyelid and the left side of the nose, the spasm ceased completely. On the following day the ophthalmia also had disappeared. In February, 1869, a third attack took place, but this time the ophthalmia appeared half a day before the spasm. This ceased upon pressure on the point of emergence of either orbital nerve, and underwent a certain remission upon pressure upon any point of the face, head, neck, or shoulders. The eye, completely closed by the spasm, could be opened almost without difficulty under the influence of such pressures, but without them the utmost efforts of the patient could not separate the tarsal margins by more than a single line. The ophthalmia had the same character as formerly. On the eighth day there appeared also a convergent strabismus of four lines. An exact analysis of the phenomena was scarcely possible, but there was certainly no paralysis of the abductor. Both orbital nerves being again divided, the anaesthesia returned and the spasm ceased, but the strabismus and diplopia remained. Careful examination showed a typical form of muscular spasm. When the patient was directed to look rapidly from right to left, the left eye was found to require twice as much time as the right to effect the movement. When the right eye had made its full excursion the left was only at the middle point, and it continued its movement outwards by jerks, ultimately arriving at complete abduction. The left eye gave also a false projection of the field of vision and the other ordinarily associated phenomena. After, fourteen days of unavailing treatment the left internal rectus vas divided. Although there had been four lines of convergence, on the day following the operation there was divergence to two lines, as if the operation had been performed on an eye in a state of normal equilibrium. The tenotomy had completely removed the spasm. To relieve the divergence the muscle was brought forward by suture forty- eight hours alter its division, and the success was complete. During the last attack the former emmatropia changed into apparent myopia which varied between -gL and Under the influence of atropine there was still.M. = -fo. Employment of the eyes was attended by pamiul sensations. This myopia was doubtless due to spasm of the accommodation, and it disappeared four weeks after the discharge of