8 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. spleen and hence considers that an explanation is aiForded of the accu- mulation of colouring particles in it in injection experiments, and of white corpuscles showing all intermediate forms. Bizzozero* * * § furnishes evidence to show that, besides a blood-forming function, an active process of disintegration of blood-corpuscles takes place in the medulla of bones, large nucleated lymph-corpuscle-like Bodies being found in it containing from two to thirty blood-corpuscles or pigment-granules in their interior. Dr. Gamgeef makes the specific heat of blood to be roz0, which represents the mean of all his experiments on the blood of the ox. It differs therefore but little from that of water. Dr. Blake;}; describes the action of the salts of iron and of the com- pounds of iodine, bromine, and chlorine, when introduced directly into the blood ; the protosalts of the former metal diminishing the irritability of the heart, and ultimately arresting its movements, retarding the respi- ration, and producing death by their action on the nervous system. The action of the persalts of iron are ten times more energetic, and quickly arrest the pulmonary circulation, producing venous congestion and abolition of the functions of the encephalon. The most striking phenomena of the action of the metalloids is the contraction they pro- duce of both the systemic and pulmonary blood-vessels, producing death by asphyxia, the heart long retaining its irritability. Schonn§ describes the action of peroxide of hydrogen on the blood. Dr. M‘Quillen || shows that chloroform and ether vapour have little or no action on the blood-corpuscles, whatever may be the direct action of these fluids upon them, and hence is inclined to believe that they ordinarily act directly on the nervous system. HEART. Dr. Hensley^" shows the spiral arrangement of the muscular fibres of the ventricles of the heart to be specially adapted to effect the complete discharge of the blood from the cavity. Dr. Herbert Davies** calls attention to the existence of a law regu- lating the relative magnitude of the areas of the four orifices of the heart. On converting Dr. Peacock’s measurements of the circumference of the several orifices into numbers representing these areas, he finds that ip the male the respective mean areas are: tricuspid If sq. inch. ; pulmonic i; mitral i£; aortic f; and on comparing the ratios of the areas of corresponding orifices— The area of tricuspid _ ^78 _ ne . „ mitral r27 * 3' The area of pulmonic =_L nearly. „ aortic ‘78 * ‘ Gaz. Med. Ital. Lombard./ 1869, No. 2. f Humphry and Turner’s ‘Journal of Anatomy/ 1870, p. 139. + < Journal of Anatomy and Physiology/ iii, 1869, p. 24, iv, 1870, p. 1. § ‘ Centralblatt/ 1870, p. 340. 11 ‘ Monthly Microscop. Journ./ 1869, p. 354. «|[ ‘ Journal of Anatomy/ iv. p. 82. « ‘Proceed. Roy. Soc./ No. 118, 1870.