23G REPORT ON SURGERY. lism the fingers remain short, unless the skin uniting them be divided at an early period; then growth is arrested, although they are used for all coarse functions like the sound fingers. Here atrophy from inac- tion cannot be taken into account. Cicatrices of burns in the neighbourhood of joints interfere in a high degree with the growth of bones. Langenbeck cites a case observed by himself, and also one related by Billroth in the ‘ Archiv fur Klinische Chir.,’ x, 1869. Billroth’s case was that of a lad set. 17, who had received a severe burn of the right hand when two years old. Cicatri- sation was complete in two months. Contraction took place to the greatest extent on the dorsal surface of the carpus; in course of time the growth of the ulna, which was pressed on by the cicatrix, was arrested, while the radius continued to grow and was bent. (A draw- ing represents the hand as forming an angle of about 120 degrees with the ulna.) A portion of the radius, four aud a half centimetres long, was excised, with a result so far satisfactory that the patient became able to write and to perform light work, although the hand had not complete power of motion. In contradistinction to these cases of arrest of growth of bones are those changes which are attended with a morbid increase of growth, in consequence of which the symmetry of similar parts of the body may be destroyed and their functions impaired. This condition has been described by Stanley and Paget of London, and more recently Bergmann has collected a series of cases in the ‘Petersburg medizin Zeitschr.’ for 1868. The essential character of the process is as follows:—A hollow bone becomes permanently longer, and generally also thicker than the normal measurement, if it have been subjected to hyperaemia or inflammatory conditions for a long time before the cessation of its growth. This may be caused by chronic hyperaemia of the soft parts of a limb. In the case of a girl seventeen years old, who had for two years had an arterio-venous aneurism beneath Poupart’s ligament, Broca found the femur lengthened by two centimetres, and the tibia and fibula by one. Purther, chronic abscesses of bone in young subjects may be followed by hyperostosis of the tibia and fibula, ossification of the interosseous ligament, and lengthening of the bones. This has been pointed out by It. Schneider in the ‘ Archiv fiir Klin. Chir.,’ 1868, ix. Chronic inflammation and caries of the joints is generally attended with an arrest of the growth in length ; but, on the other hand, there may be lengthening of the bone. This has been observed by Langenbeck in his own practice. Disease of the shafts of bones is very frequently attended with abnormal lengthening; osteomyelitis and necrosis almost always have this influence. Langenbeck gives the measurements of the bones of the legs in a patient who had from his third year been affected with disease of the left leg, aud who had died after an operation for cancer of the rectum. The right tibia, from the articular surface of the inner condyle to the point of the malleolus internus, measured 40 centimetres, the left 42. The right tibia measured anteriorly 38$ centimetres, the left 43. The right fibula was 38 centimetres long, the left 40. The right tibia, in the middle of the bone, was 9 centimetres in thickness, the left 13 ; just above the inner