KEPOllT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 11G to attacks of tingling in the right arm and hand, followed by absolute blindness, lasting for twenty minutes or longer. This was succeeded by complete sppechlessness for two hours, the patient being “ able to summon up words before his mental vision.” Behier (‘ Graz, des Hop.,’ 1869, 124) records the history of a female attacked with aphasia after cerebral haemorrhage, presenting a some- what curious circumstance. She had been born in Italy, had lived in Spain, and for some years past in Trance, and]knew the three languages ; but after this attack completely forgot those of the first two countries, and spoke only Trench, and of that repeated only, as an echo, the words she heard spoken, without attaching any sense to them. As for Italian and Spanish words, she not only seemed unable to understand them, but did not even repeat them. Terber (‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1869, 102) publishes the case of a female, set. 65, with dilated heart and atheromatous arteries, who after a fit suffered from hemiplegia and aphasia, both conditions gradually almost disappearing; but agraphia, shown in writing “ schreigen” for “ schreiben,” &c., remaining behind. Eulenburg (ib. 435) gives the history of a boy, set. 8, who, during the continuance of scarlatinal dropsy, was attacked with severe uni- lateral convulsions, followed by coma, and, later, hemiplegia with aphasia, with unimpaired intellect. His capacity of speech consisted only in two monosyllabic words, “ ach,” as a negative reply to questions asked him, and “ja,” not only as an affirmative one, but for the name of any- thing he wanted. Kisch (ib. 433) publishes three cases ; the third was that of a lady, weighing nearly 19 st., who had drunk largely of the Terdinand springs at Marienbad, containing a great amount of carbonic acid. She was attacked with congestion (hyperemia) of the brain, dizziness, falling down, without loss of consciousness, headache and complete aphasia; all the symptoms disappeared at a later period. Berger (‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1869, No. 102) saw two cases of very transitory aphasia, occurring in a mother and daughter, from indiges- tion. Habershon (‘Lancet,’ 1870, ii, 402) records a case of aphasia, in a woman, caused by fright. Judee, “ Etudes Psychologiques. Ce que c’est que l’Aphasie,” ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1869, 438 ; Bateman, “ On Aphasia” (abstract of paper in ‘ Journ. of Ment. Sci.’), ‘ Med. Times and’Gaz.,’ 1869, i, 486; Marcet, “A case of Aphasia,” ‘Lancet,’ 1869, i, 115; Thacker, “ On Aphasia,” ib., 1870, ii, 429; Dunn, “ On Loss of Speech, or the Power of Utterance, in respect to its cerebral bearings and causes,” ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869, i, 99 ; Losse’n, “Ein Fall von Traumatischer Apliasie,” ‘Berl. Klin. Wocli.,’ 1870, 297. Neuralgia. Anstie (‘Lancet,’ 1869, i, 41) protests against the bad prognosis laid down by Trousseau in all cases of “ epileptiform ” neuralgia, and be- lieves that a much better result than he looked for may be obtained by the employment from an early stage of (1) counter-irritation, in the form of a blister applied to the branches of the occipital nerve at the nape of the neck; (2) the assiduous use of cod-liver oil, or of some