421 LABOUR : HAEMORRHAGE. gradually recovered. In the second case, haemorrhage in a continuous stream was observed immediately after the birth of the child; a bleeding vein was seen in the split perineum, which was twisted. The bleeding persisting, blood, was seen streaming from a rent directly behind the clitoris, from the mouths of two veins. Compression by the finger and with charpie steeped in perchloride of iron was fruitless ; the two veins were seized with some trouble, and tied en masse. The bleeding then stopped. In the third case, the blood was seen by the midwife to stream over the child’s head before it was extruded. Blood flowed in a copious stream from a rent between clitoris and meatus. It was stopped by two sutures through the wound. Transfusion was attempted, but the patient sank within twenty minutes after the birth of the child. An autopsy was made. The uterus was perfectly contracted; the cervix and vagina were quite uninjured ; there was a slight perinasal laceration ; at the anterior border of the vulva was a rent two and a half centimetres long, between the clitoris and meatus, and shallow ; the bottom seemed formed of fine network tissue; no mouths of larger vessels were found. Dr. Muller concludes that the bleeding comes from the crushing and bursting of the overloaded pars intermedia of Kobelt. He observed that, in all the cases, the bleeding increased when the uterus was squeezed, which is explained by the blood being driven from the uterus through the vaginal plexuses. He has observed a similar increase of bleeding in rupture of the vagina when the uterus was compressed. (The liability to laceration of this part was observed by the reporter many years ago, and his observation was cited by Dr. Tyler Smith in that author’s work on Obstetrics.—R. B.) The treatment of post-partum haemorrhage is discussed by Dr. Barnes, (op. cit.). He insists upon the great fact that hitherto all the means trusted to for the arrest of uterine haemorrhage depend for their effi- cacy upon their power of inducing contraction of the uterus ; hence, as a corollary, where contractility is exhausted, the art of the physician is exhausted too. Barnes shows that after contractility is gone, haemorrhage may still be stopped by the topical application of powerful styptics, the most convenient being perchloride of iron. He exhibited (‘ Obstetr. Trans.,’ 1870) a convenient apparatus for this purpose. Dr. Lorain illustrates the effect of spontaneous and artificial bleedings. In a case of post-partum haemorrhage the temperature fell to 36-8° C. In a case of puerperal convulsions free venesection after labour (con- vulsions persisting, albuminuria) was practised. Temperature in rectum before bleeding was 38,6°, pulse 136. Immediately afterwards the pulse was 160, the temperature had fallen to 38-3°. The patient reco- vered. In another case of puerperal convulsions, with albuminuria, the pulse was 128, temperature in rectum 39‘6°, that is, 20 above the normal. 1200 grammes of blood was taken, approach to syncope attend- ing. The good effect was immediate, convulsions ceased, consciousness returned. She was delivered a month later of a dead macerated child. The pulse fell to its natural standard in twenty-four hours ; the tempe- rature rose at first immediately after the bleeding to 39-8°, a slight rise being expected in syncope. It then fell in twenty-four hours to 36-6°. Prof. Elliot relates a remarkable case of thrombus. The patient