MEDICAL school. ANIMAL PARASITES. 101 riensis. G-renet had been twice called to see two young creoles, in whom death seemed imminent from convulsions, and who had at a later period passed portions of this cestode. One patient was a boy of eigh- teen months, from the Antilles; the other a girl ol two years, from Reunion. The first proglottides are described as being asexual, the next in order containing the deferent canal and penis, with the genital pore situated unilaterally in the middle of the margin of each pro- glottis; those furthest from the head contained the female organs, indi- cated, in the upper proglottides by the vagina alone, and in the lower by a structure not to be found, according to Davaine, in any other taenia. Each of these last proglottides, as well as those which were free, contained from 120 to 130 bodies, which the microscope showed to be ovarian capsules, whose central portion was filled with from 300 to 400 eggs. Currie (‘ Edinb. Med. Journ.,’ xiv, 812) found twenty-four grains of the ethereal extract of male fern most successful in the treatment of taenia occurring among the troops of the Abyssinian expedition. Lafitte (‘Arch. Gen. de Med.,’ 1869, ii, 118) gives the following: a man, aet. 35, presented himself in April, 1869, with a tumour about the size of a pigeon’s egg, situate in the palm of the right hand externally above the space occupied by the muscles of the thenar eminence. Inci- sion allowed the escape of serous fluid and a small vesicle, to the inside of which was attached by its pedicle a cysticercus cellulose, the fore- runner of taenia solium. Huber (‘ Deut. Arch.,’ vii, 450) insists that a very one-sided view has been taken in looking only at the mechanical irritation caused by the presence of intestinal worms, and recalls the fact that ten years ago he had drawn attention to the peculiar, strong smell of the round worms, and had suggested that the origin of many of the symptoms, especially the local ones, was to be sought for in the chemical constitution of this odorous matter. Miram, as mentioned by Yon Siebold, had suffered from sneezing, increased flow of tears, with swelling and itching of the fingers, after examining specimens of Ascaris megacephala ; and Huber gives the following as occurring to himself. In Eebruary, 1870, a fac- tory-girl, set. 20, died in hospital with symptoms of acute oedema of the lung. The day before, and the morning of the day of, her death, she had vomited six round worms (Ascaris lumbricoides). In addition to the lung-oedema found after death, there were about 20 round worms in the small intestine, in groups ot 2—3 individuals, the greater portion females ; the mucous membrane of the parts in which they lay was normal, but a short distance above the ileo-csecal valve was a streak three inches long, strongly tinged with blood, the mucous membi’ane itself being covered with numerous eccbymoses from the size of a pin’s head to a lentil, and loosened. Huber took a dozen of the worms home, and after spending an hour, after noon, in their examination, felt between 5 and 6 p.m., a troublesome itching of his head and neck, followed by large 'wheals on the latter, smaller ones on the forehead, swelling of and secretion from the right ear; headache on the right side; itching and catarrh, of the conjunctive, and itching of the hands ; all the symptoms disappearing without leaving a trace in a few hours!