antiseptic ligature. 203 thoroughly rupture the inner coats. Whatever effect they had pro- duced at first had passed away. These appearances at the distal end revive the old question whether it would not he better to avoid rupture of the internal and middle coats, which could easily be done by using a pretty thick piece of catgut softened by steeping it in a watery solu- tion of carbolic acid. This, however, is probably a matter of indiffer- ence ; for, judging from the condition of the artery at the cardiac liga- ture, the injury done by tight tying seems to lead to changes which increase its power of resistance, which was certainly severely tested in the present instance. Mr. Lister concludes by remarking that it would appear that by applying a ligature of animal tissue antiseptically upon an artery, whether tightly or gently, we virtually surround it by a ring of living tissue, and strengthen the vessel where we obstruct it. The surgeon, therefore, may now tie an arterial trunk in its continuity close to a large branch secure against secondary haemorrhage and deep- seated suppuration—provided always that he has so studied the prin- ciples of the antiseptic treatment, and has so carefully considered the details of the mode of dressing best adapted to the particular case in hand, that he can feel certain of avoiding putrefaction in the wound. Mr. Lister would now proceed without hesitation to apply a ligature on the innominate, believing that it would prove a very safe procedure. As regards the material for ligature, sheep catgut may be had of all thicknesses at a very low price. A watery solution of carbolic acid renders the fine ones brittle and the stouter too thick. The method re- commended is to steep the catgut in a solution of acid in five parts of oil, with a very small quantity of water diffused through it. After soaking for a while in this, if placed in water the gut does not swell. An oily solution is not convenient to work with. The thickness for an artery in its continuity should be that of ordinary purse-silk, but for ordinary wounds much finer is better. Mr. Lister carries some catgut rolled on wood in a small bottle with a little of the antiseptic solution. He uses torsion, however, for all ordinary wounds. Oarbolized ligature.—Mr. Paget tied the femoral artery, in a case of aneurism, with a carbolized ligature, and then dressed the wound antiseptically. The wound healed in ten days, but re-opened super- ficially and a poultice was applied. (‘ Lancet,’ Dec. 17, 1870.) Dr. Buchanan has had a successful case on Mr. Lister’s plan, catgut ligature steeped in carbolic acid, and the wound dressed antiseptically. (‘Lancet,’ April 23, 1870.) Mr. Bickersteth records a case in which he ligatured the external iliac artery for aneurism with a carbolized catgut ligature successfully. The wound was also dressed antiseptically. The man left the hospital in five weeks. (‘Lancet,’ June 12, 1869.) . ‘ Lancet,’ May 29, 1869, are the notes of a case of aneurism in which Mr. Bickersteth ligatured the common carotid. He used a fine catgut ligature soaked in carbolic acid. The wound healed in a week. .Mr. Spence records a case in which he ligatured the common carotid with catgut, and the ligature gave way in rather less than twenty-four