REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. JUO sure necessary to rupture the membranes, who found the greatest pressure was 3-i lbs. and the least o-26 lb., giving a mean of x'a lb., and combining this experimental result with his calculation, he concludes that the uterine muscles are capable of rupturing the membranes in every case, and possess in general nearly the requisite power. The extreme force of uterine contraction produces a pressure of 3'4 lbs. per square inch, acting upon a circle ql in. in diameter, which, as assumed as the average area of the pelvic canal, is equivalent to a pressure of 54-1 lbs. Joulin’s experiments give 110-23 lbs. as the maxi- mum force, uterine and abdominal muscular combined, required to expel the foetus. Duncan considers 80 lbs. as the maximum. This would represent 5-03 lbs. to the square inch, which is greater than the uterine muscles unaided are capable of producing. The author then discusses the force brought in by the abdominal muscles, which are four in number—the rectus abdominis, obliquus externus, obliquus internus, and transversalis. He found by experiment upon three young men, multiplying the curvature into the tension of the abdominal muscles at the navel, that the result was an expulsive force of 32-926 lbs. to the square inch, available to assist the uterus in completing the second stage of labour. Adding the combined force, we get— Voluntary muscles ..... 5.410 lbs. Involuntary muscles .... 523-65 lbs. Total 577-75 lbs. av. “ Thus we see that, on an emergency, somewhat more than a quarter of a ton pressure can be brought to bear upon a refractory child that refuses to come into the world in the usual manner.” As a consequence, Dr. Haughton insists that chloroform used beyond the stage of inducing drunkenness and indifference to pain is positively injurious, by cutting off the action of the voluntary muscles, without which the uterus is inefficient. (‘Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sc.,’ May, 1870.) (Interesting as these investigations and calculations are, there are ele- ments in the problem that appear to have attracted insufficient attention. First, experiments performed on dead tissues can scarcely be accepted as evidence of the properties of living tissues. Living tissues can pro- bably resist a greater pressure. Secondly, the estimate of the expulsive power of the abdominal muscles drawn from observations made upon men cannot safely be applied to women at the time of labour. The curvature in the two cases is widely different; the tension and the pressure must also be different. Moreover, the diaphragm, which un- doubtedly is a power in labour, seems overlooked. Thirdly, the reflex muscular force employed in labour is too much confounded with volun- tary power. Chloroform does not, unless carried to an extreme degree, annul reflex muscular power; and in the minor degree of anaesthesia, found efficient to blunt the sense of pain m labour, even voluntary power is not altogether subdued.—R. B.) .. , , Dr Snellino- oiyes an historical resum.6 of what has been said about relaxation of the pelvic joints during pregnancy and labour. He also