THE CHILD. 4:57 Drs. E. Olshausen and II. Mekus describe an acute contagious am/retic pemphigus in new-born children and puerperal women (‘ Arch. f. Gynak. ’ 1870). The facts upon which their paper is based were observed in the Iialle Lying-in Hospital. On the 2nd March, 1864, an infant five days old was attacked with pemphigus ; it was strong and well nourished, weighing 9 lbs.; its mother was quite healthy. In the course of six days about six blebs appeared on various parts of the body and trunk, the palms and the soles of the feet being clear. The child’s healthy state remained unaffected. On the 3rd March two other children were attacked, which also were perfectly healthy. After a considerable interval, and after these three children had left the hospital, a fourth was seized on the 5E1 April, and eleven days later two others. Ten other children, born in the mean time, escaped. Not one of the mothers showed sign of syphilis. The blebs ran their course in about twelve days. The principal seat was on the trunk ; next, the extremi- ties ; the groins were mostly affected ; the palms and soles always remained free. Olshausen and Mekus believe that the children did not infect each other, hut were all attacked by the same unknown cause. The constancy of the seizures on the fifth and seventh days suggests the idea of an incubation of five days, and of infection beginning im- mediately after birth. The source suspected was the bath-sponge and bath-tub. The contagious character of these cases seemed clearly proved by a subsequent epidemic in 1869, when hundreds were attacked. The blebs were neither numerous nor big, but many children had from twelve to twenty-four. They were very quickly matured, so that where six to twelve hours previously nothing was to be seen, full blebs had. formed. Most of them burst quickly. The thin secretion soon became turbid, and rarely formed scabs. The eruption commonly began from the fourth to the seventh day after birth. In two or three weeks the affection was at an end. The little patients were seldom feverish, and did not fall off in nutrition. Of special interest was the spread of the disease in the town. It was observed that it spread, and in very different degrees, in the practice of different midwives. In the practice of some nearly every child was affected, whilst in that of others a case was quite exceptional. In some instances the mother, as well as her infant, was affected. Olshausen and Mekus insist that this disease, sometimes called pemphigus infantilis, which is known to others, should be recognised as a distinct epidemic, because Hecker and others affirm that pemphigus only occurs in syphilitic children. From quotations from recent authors, as Plaskada (1865), Steffen (1865), Hervieux (1868), Plieninger (1854), Klein (1867), and others, Olshausen and Mekus conclude that this acute epidemic pemphigus in children, is not very rare. (The reporter described a series of cases resembling those to which the text refers, in the ‘ Lancet,’ 1852, there showing that they were not syphilitic, and were probably contagious.—E. B.) Olshausen and Mekus ventured to make some inoculation experiments. They inoculated the thigh of a child already attacked with pemphigus, and with fluid taken from one of its own blebs. Other experiments on a man and animals gave no results. Dr. Hervieux (‘ Jo urn. f. Kinderkrankheiten,’ 1870) relates the