315 EXSECTION OF NERVES. muscle, and periosteum, was then raised, and the nerve was laid bare in the alveolar or dental canal by means of a fine chisel. The nerve was followed to the point of entrance into the bone, and a portion, about two centimetres long, was excised. Dr. Ilueter then cut away the part of the ramus lying in front of the dental canal, and thus exposed the lingual nerve at the part where it lay beneath the outer edge of the external pterygoid muscle, between the internal pterygoid and the posterior, periosteal surface of the ramus. A piece of this nerve, about two centimetres long, was excised. The wound healed, and the patient was discharged on Jan. 30, 1869. A salivary fistula was pro- duced by the wounding of some of the lobes of the parotid gland, but yielded to a few cauterizations. The gustatory nerve was so far impaired that quassia could not be tasted by the anterior part of the tongue, on the right side, the sensation remaining perfect on the left. After a short time severe neuralgia set in, in the branches of the fifth nerve on the left side, especially the infra-orbital, and was attended with reflex twitchings of the facial muscles. It being apparent that no remedy would avail but excision, Dr. Hueter performed this, on the in- fra-orbital nerve, on March 8, 1869. The operation resembled, in its essential features, that of Langenbeck, of whose proposal, however, Dr. Hueter was not at the time aware. He used a Dieffenbach’s tenotome, modified by having the cutting edge made about a centimetre longer, the back somewhat stronger, and the point blunted, but not knobbed. The result was the complete relief of the patient from his neuralgia, which had not returned more than two months afterwards. JExsection of Meckel's ganglion, Sfc.—Dr. Conner writes on this sub- ject, and shows that the results have not been by any means encouraging, and he doubts whether the removal of the ganglion is of much import- ance for anatomical and physiological reasons. (‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ Oct., 1870.) Operation for neuralgia of tlwface. — In the ‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ Oct., 1869, is a note of a case of facial neuralgia, recorded by Dr. Win. H. Mussy (‘ Cincinnati Lancet and Observer’). The superior maxillary nerve, with Meckel’s ganglion and the inferior maxillary nerve, were removed on the plan of Dr. Carnaghan. The patient was a man, aged 32. He had suffered five years. Four months later he was free from pain. -Exsection of nerve trunks.—In the ‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sciences’ (July, 1869), a case is recorded by Dr. Blackman, in which he removed the greater portion of the inferior dental nerve, and also the second division of the fifth nerve beyond Meckel’s ganglion, for facial neuralgia. Numerous remedies had previously been tried, and a portion of the inferior dental nerve had been removed with temporary relief. The inferior dental nerve was reached by an incision along the base and ramus of the lower jaw, and the whole of the nerve, from its entrance into the bone, to the mental foramen, was removed. The superior maxillary nerve was reached from the front, the anterior and posterior walls of the antrum being broken through, and the nerve divided, with scissoi’s, close to the foramen rotundum, after the manner adopted by