11EP011T ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 370 bladder and superior wall of the rectum, with very little vaginal tissue. Au attempt was first made to open up a new vagina; through this the uterus was punctured by a trocar; a very thick dark crimson fluid exuded very slowly, its exit was helped by injecting a weak solution of iodine. Great sickness, due to the chloroform, followed. The patient proceeded fairly for six days, but on the seventh, apparently under the influence of mental agitation, she felt “ as if something had turned completely in her inside pulse rose to 160. Vomiting occurred, de- lirium, evident internal injury and shock, under which she sank. Autopsy.—Slight adhesions of omentum. On lifting up omentum a quantity of chocolate-coloured grumous fluid spouted up from beneath the intestines ; it came from the utero-rectal pouch. The uterus was enlarged. Both Fallopian tubes were dilated, that on the left side to about the size of a pigeon’s egg, full of fluid, which could not be squeezed back into the uterus. The dilatation in the right tube was sloughy looking and perforated on its inner side; it was about the size of a small orange. From the aperture in it, which admitted a sound readily, a quantity of the same kind of grumous fluid as that found in the abdomen could be found exuding. The meatus urinarius was found in this case widely dilated (a condition to which Dr. Oldham has drawn attention as one often associated with absence of vagina). A case of incontinence of urine; nearly complete occlusion of the introitus vaginae by cicatricial degeneration ; assumption of the function of the vagina by the urethra ; operation ; complete healing. By Uter- hart (‘ Berlin, klin. Wochensch.,’ 1869). Dr. Pallen relates a case of absence of vagina, in which three opera- tions ended in the establishment of menstruation. A girl, aged 20, had since 14 experienced menstrual molimina without any show of menses. Her health failed. On examination it was at first thought there was retention of menstrual fluid from imperforate hymen. But it was found that there was no vagina, a small undeveloped uterus, aud no accumulation. An artificial vagina was made by incision and lacera- tion by the fingei’, and maintained by wearing a glass plug and Barnes’ dilators. A periodical flow of blood was established, and good health was regained. The case, Dr. Pallen says, is unique, the recorded cases of absence of vagina differing in some respects. (‘ St. Louis Med. and Surg. Journ.,’ 1870.) Atresia of the vagina is illustrated by Prof. Halbertsma, who relates a verv instructive case of retention of menses from this condition. The uterus had been enlarging for ten years, from the blood accumulated within its cavity, so that the fundus reached a hand’s breadth above the umbilicus. He formed the opinion that rupture of one of the distended Fallopian tubes was impending. He punctured the uterus with au ex- ploring trocar. The tension was thus relieved, and it is believed that the rupture of the tubes, which so often attends rapid emptying of the uterus, was prevented. (‘ Centrahl. f. d. Med. Wissensch.,’ 1870.) Imperforate hymen—A case is given by Dr. G. Conradi (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1869), in which the closure seemed to be caused by scarlatina. A o-irl at 13 had scarlatina; at 14 she complained of pains in the lower part of the back ; at 16 the pains increased in severity, and she rather