201 ANTISEPTIC LIGATURE. of the destruction of all septic organisms lodged in its interstices. The wound, being dressed antiseptically, became superficial without suppu- ration, the patient, meanwhile, experiencing no febrile disturbance, her appetite returning as soon as the sickness from chloroform subsided. On the fourteenth day she sat upright in bed without inconvenience. Pour weeks after the operation, the superficial sore being completely cicatrised, she was allowed to walk about her room. At the end of six weeks she was allowed out of doors. At the end of eleven months she, one day, suddenly felt something give way and expired. At the post-mortem an aneurism of the descending arch was found to have burst. The fol- lowing were the appearances of the femoral aneurism, &c. The aneurism was not entirely obliterated, but remained about the size of a large filbert, of somewhat fusiform shape. The upper two thirds were solid, being occupied by firm coagulum adherent to the sac. The lower third, situated just at the bifurcation of the common femoral, had been kept free from coagulation by the recurrent stream of blood from the profunda into the superficial trunk. In the greater part of its length the artery could be traced with decolorised coagula adherent internally. But, at the narrowest part, the artery was reduced to mere fibrous tissue, constituting a dense fibrous baud five eighths of an inch long, from the middle of which projected, at one side, a round buff coloured appendage about a line in diameter, somewhat obscured by a trifling amount of inflammatory condensation of texture in the immediate vicinity. On scratching this little body with the point of a knife, it was found to be a very thin-walled capsule, containing the knot of the ligature with two tapering ends, which were shorter than the thread was cut at the operation, while the noose had vanished altogether. The surface of the knot also showed evidences of having been sub- jected to an eroding agency similar, no doubt, to that exerted by gra- nulations on dead bone absorbed by them (see ‘ Lancet,’ March 23, 1867). Besides the remnant of the ligature the tiny capsule contained a minute quantity of yellowish semi-fluid material, looking to the naked eye very like pus. On examination with the microscope, however, pus corpuscles formed but a small proportion of its composition, which was, principally, rounded cells of smaller size and fibro-plastic cells, together with some imperfect fibres and granular material. In addi- tion were some fragments of silk. These pieces had the appearance ot being superficially nibbled, so to speak, confirming the impression conveyed by the naked-eye appearances of the knot, that the silk had been eroded by the absorbing action of the surrounding parts. Why it was that the parts immediately around the silk should have assumed so imperfect a structure is a difficult question but one of great interest. The indication is that an incipient abscess was forming, set up by the irritation (though slight) of the silk. Mr. Lister then thought of trying the old plan of catgut ligatures with the addition of the anti- septic principle. He tied the common carotid of a calf. Ligatures of two different kinds were employed at au interval of about an inch and a half, the sheath in between being undisturbed. The cardiac one was of home manufacture, composed of three strips of peritoneum from the small intestine of an ox firmly twisted together in a threefold