REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. m toms. Besides its clinical value, the case has pathological interest from the rarity of true osteoma in the brain. He can only cite three cases collected by \irchow (‘ Krankh. Gfeschw.,’ ii, 96); one recorded by Lentin (Blumenbach’s ‘Medic. Biblioth.,’ ii, 75); another byMeschede (a very large tumour in an epileptic, ‘ Virch. Arch.,’ xxxv, 472) ; and a sixth by Banvier (‘ Bull, de la Soc. Anat.,’ 1862). Steudenar publishes (ib., 1, 222) three cases of psammoma of the dura mater of the brain and spinal cord, and of the choroid plexus, with figures of the microscopical appearances. Loretz (ib., xlix, 435) gives a case of neuroma with ganglion-cells, con- nected with the upper intercostal nerves and (?) inferior cervical ganglion of sympathetic. Latham, “ Primary cancer of the brain,” ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869, i, 285. Hugh- lings Jackson, ‘‘Death by haemorrhage from cerebral tumour,” ‘Lancet,’ 1869, ii, 571. Richet, “ Tumeurs du cervelet,” ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1869, 308. Prunac, “Tubercules du cervelet et du bulbe, tuberculose viscerale, meningitis aigue simple intercurrente,” ‘ Lyon Med.’ 1869, iii, 310. Sclerosis. Schlile (“ Beitrag zur multiplen Sclerose des G-ehirns und Biicken- marks,” ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ vii, 259) gives a case of multiple sclerosis of the brain and medulla. The affection commenced, after prodromal symp- toms, such as frequent nausea, gastralgia, giddiness, Ac., with those of ataxy (incoordination of movement), and later with those of paralysis agitans (violent trembling and tossing during voluntary movements, and sudden cessation of the latter on supporting the affected limb) ; these were followed by impairment of speech, deglutition, and mastication; paralysis of the lower and right upper extremities, with entire preserva- tion of sensation to the last. At first there was psychical exaltation, then depression, and finally complete stupor. There were no changes of nutrition, and the electro-muscular excitability was preserved up to a short time before death, which occurred during an attack of pneumonia, two and a half years after the first commencement of the affection. The autopsy showed sclerosed portions in different parts of the brain, alter- nating with others which bore signs of grey degeneration ; grey points of softening were present in the cord, the process diminishing in intensity downwards, and affecting very slightly the posterior columns. Tinder the microscope, the anatomical lesion, as in former cases, was found to be a proliferation of the neuroglia, with secondary destruction' of the nerve-fibres and ganglionic corpuscles. According to the author, the places affected with grey degeneration and those with sclerosis are different stages of the same process, the former dating from a recent, the latter from an earlier period of the affection. Barwinkel (“Zur Lehre von der herdweisen Sclerose der Nerven- centren,” ‘ Arch. d. Heilk.,’ x, 590) publishes a very interesting case of the same kind in a man, set. 28, in which the diagnosis was made with some probability during life. He thinks the following are the chief diagnostic marks of this affection, especially when occurring in the