170 ItEFOItT ON PUACTICAL MEDICINE. reaching five or six inches from the pylorus; the mucous membrane was in a sloughing condition, and the pyloric valve destroyed. In this instance not only was the obstruction, as in the former case, removed by the ulceration, but the sensibility of the stomach also obli- terated. Harris (‘Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci.,’ lviii, 131) publishes the history and autopsy of cystic degeneration of the mucous membrane of the stomach. It occurred in a lady, set. 53, whose usual beverage night and morning had for many years consisted of two cups of black tea, boiled down for two hours, and made excessively strong, like a fluid ex- tract. The stomach was of fair size, and contained dark grumous fluid. The mucous membrane was congested, in places ecchymosed, rather thin, and presented an infinite number of minute roundish elevations, some- what like minute vesicles. These, under the microscope, were seen to be cysts imbedded in mucous membrane, with thin fibrous walls, and lined by a layer of nucleated epithelium. There was marked fatty degeneration of the mucous epithelium and gastric tubules. Toulmouche (‘Arch. Gen. de Med.,’ 1869, ii, 272, &c.) divides a long article on ulcers of the stomach into two parts, the first treating of those due to simple inflammation of the mucous membrane, the second of those dependent on a cancerous origin. He gives seven cases of each class, with accounts of the autopsies, observed as far back as the years 1832-41. Beside the mere reports there is nothing particularly note- worthy, either in the cases themselves or in his remarks upon them. Both (‘Yirch. Arch.,’ xlv, 300) publishes experiments on the artificial production of ulcers in the stomach—(1) by ligature of the arteries (as did Pavy in i863),no effect being obtained on account of the free anas- tomosis set up; (2) by the introduction of nitrate of silver in solid masses in a pill (three grammes.). In this way ulcers were produced chiefly about the lesser curvature. Johnson (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1870, i, 305) gives a case of hsemate- mesis and perforating ulcer of the stomach in a woman, set. 28, in which, after remarking on the symptoms and treatment, he allows that, though the history leaves very little room for doubt, it is, of course, not certain, recovery having taken place, that there had been any perforation of the stomach. At any rate, perfect rest of the organ, in these doubtful cases, is absolutely necessary. Wilson Pox (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xix, 239) gives at length the case of a boy, mt. 11, who had swallowed about an ounce of hydrochloric acid. On the fourteenth day after, he had profuse haematemesis and died. The autopsy showed an ulcer about an inch and a half from the pyloric ring, in the centre of which was an artery completely eroded. Hahershon “Diseases of the Stomach,” 2nd ed., London; Moxon, “Phlegmonous Gastritis,” ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1870, ii, 473! Fenwick, “On Atrophy of the Stomach,” ‘Lancet ’ 1870, ii, 78; Gallard, “Troubles digestifs dus a l’Alcoolisme,” ‘ L Union Med., viii 886- Scheuer “Em Fall von perforirendem Magengeschwiir hei einem 12 iahrigen Miidchen, mogliche Wirksamkeit des Ferri Collas,” ‘Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg.,' rRfio 226- Bell “Account of a case of Gastric Ulcer terminating by Perforation, which ran’an unusually rapid course,” ‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ xiv 775 j Redwood, “Two cases of Perforation of the Stomach; one recovery, ‘Lancet, 1870, J, 647 Other cases of ulcer of the stomach are given by Gibbon, ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,