178 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. the same kind five days later, which lasted four days. On her discharge the diminution ol the liver was most evident, and there was some en- largement of the spleen. Jamieson (‘ Edinb. Med. Journ.,’ xiv, 872) records the case of a wo- man, mt. 25, who in the middle of her first pregnancy was attacked with symptoms of gastric disturbance accompanied by jaundice, and lasting for several days. Six days after delivery by forceps she died in a coma- tose condition, having again suffered from the same symptoms as before. In the absence of any autopsy, the author considers himself justified in describing the case as one of acute yellow atrophy. Murchison, “Acute Atrophy of the Liver,” ‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xix, 248; Fagge, “ Acute Yellow Atrophy of the Liver,” ib., xx, 213; Anstie, “ Case of Acute Atrophy of the Liver,” ‘Lancet,’ 1869, ii, 74°; Aron, “ De l’Ictere grave a. cause alcoolique,” ‘Gaz. Hebd.,’ 1869, 739; Paulicki, “ Ein Fall von Atrophia llava Hepatis,” ‘Berk klin. Woch.,’ 1869,47; Schultzen und Riess, “Acute Phosphorus-poisoning and Atrophy of the Liver,” ‘Ann. des Charite-Krankenh.,’ 1869, xv, 1. (c) Interstitial hepatitis ; cirrhosis.—Glee (‘St. Bart. IIosp. Pep.,’ v, 108) gives two cases of cirrhotic enlargement of the liver. In the first, a man, mt. 38, the liver weighed ioo| oz., and consisted of islets of hepatic substance separated by connective tissue ; in the second, a wo- man, set. 23, it weighed 104 oz., and though no trace of liver substance was visible to the naked eye, hardened sections soaked in chloride of lime showed the same structural elements. He doubts whether livers doubled in weight by the development of adventitious tissue could ever contract to such a degree as to deserve the name of cirrhosis in the or- dinary sense of the word, and thinks that the same condition which mostly causes the liver to contract may also enlarge it; and that among hepatic lesions which have the latter result must be placed cirrhosis, i. e. a progressive interstitial hyperplasia of the connective tissue. Cayley (‘ Trans. Path. Soc.,’ xix, 253) records a case in which the history and effects of the disease closely resembled cirrhosis, in a man, set. 62, but post-mortem the affection appeared to consist rather in the gradual atrophy of the secreting tissue. It seems to have come on independently of drink. Duffin, “ Case of Ascites dependent on Cirrhosis of the Liver, treated by Copaiba,” ‘ Lancet,’ 1869, i, 292; Steffen, “ Zur Casuistik der Lebercirrhose,” ‘ Jahr. f. Kinderheilk.,’ ii, 211; “ Cas de Cirrhose du Foie cliez les Enfants,” ‘ Lyon Med.,' v, 469, quoted from ‘ Jahrl). f. Kinder.,’ T869. (cl) Fatty liver— Perroud (‘Lyon Med.,’ iii, 281) gives ten cases, the facts of which he considers sufficient to prove that fatty degenera- tion of the liver may be accompanied by great cachexia, anasarca, and ante mi a, with a peculiar leaden hue of skin, resembling that of the can- cerous, or even more so the miasmatic, cachexia. There is with these an absence of albumen, and of any well-marked signs which would explain the extreme cachexia by some organic lesion. Probably there is only general languor, fever, adynamia, with, usually, death from ex- haustion. After death, besides the change in the liver, there is found fatty degeneration of the heart and kidneys. To this general condition he had already given the name of “ polysteatose visc4rale. Semple, “Specimen of very large Fatty Liver,” ‘Path. Soc. lrans.,’ xix, 241.