482 HEPOltT ON MATERIA MEDICA, ETC. as when ordinary ether is used, and the animal after a few minutes of tranquil sleep awakes without struggling. New principles from opium.—O. Hesse* * * § has made a contribution to our knowledge of the opium bases, and describes some apparently new products which may hereafter prove of use in therapeutics. His paper embraces a full description of meconidin, laudanin, lanthopin, thebain, thebenin, thebaicin, papaverin, and their salts. Paytin.—O. Hessef also describes a new alkaloid which he has ex- tracted from the white quinine bark of Payta. The following notes refer to new investigations into the actions of old remedies : Ergot and ergotine.—Prof. BaillyJ has investigated the therapeutical properties of ergot and of the ergotine of Bonjean (an aqueous extract of ergot), and concludes thus:—i. On account of its abortifacient properties, ergot of rye plays an important part in obstetric practice when it is necessary, either during parturition or afterwards, to increase the contraction of the uterus ; and for overcoming uterine inertia, ergot itself is, in all cases, preferable to ergotine. 2. In clinical medicine the curative power of ergot and of ergotine, being much more limited than during accouchement s, is confined to those cases in which thera- peutical agents can act upon the uterus—haemorrhages, uterine conges- tions, hypertrophies of the neck of the womb—to a doubtful action in haemorrhages from the mucous membrane of the lungs, the intestines, and the bladder—to a perceptible but not very powerful action in abating inflammatory affections of the spinal cord, and to a sedative action upon the circulation. 3. In surgery Bonjean’s ergotine, dis- solved in water, possesses undoubted haemostatic properties when used for external haemorrhages caused by the bursting of capillary vessels, or of vessels too small to require the application of a ligature. Benzine.—Dr. Bottari§ states that the inhalation of the gas which is developed during the purification of illuminating gas exercises an im- portant curative influence in uncomplicated cases of hooping-cough, and that it is probable that this result is due to the presence of benzine (phenylic hydride, Cfi H6). He was hence induced to try the thera- peutical action of this liquid in hooping-cough. From ten to. twenty minims were administered in mucilage or in syrup, and sometimes the vapour was likewise inhaled. In the earlier stages the medicament appeared to exercise no beneficial effect; but in the second stage, and where there was no congestion of the respiratory organs, the results were highly beneficial and rapidly produced. Morphia and chloroform.—A published lecture of Prof. Cl. Bernard’s,|| which is, however, unsuitable for useful abstraction, on the physiological effects of morphia and of its combinations, will amply repay the prac- titioner’s perusal. The lecture contains the details of many experiments performed on animals with these two medicaments. * ‘ Ann. der Chem. u. der Pham,/ cliii, p. 47. f Ibid., cliv, p. 287. X ‘ Bull. Gen. de Ther./ lxxviii, pp. 433, 481, 529. § Ibid., lxxviii, p. 41; ‘Lo Speriraentale,’ fasc. 10, 1869. [j Ibid., Ixxvii, p. 241.