438 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. history of an epidemic of pemphigus which prevailed in the Paris Matermte during two years. It began with one child, which was removed from the lying-in wards to the children’s ward. There was no evidence of syphilis in itself or in the history of its parents. Very soon almost all the children amongst whom it was brought became affected. The bullae appeared on all parts of the body, the palms and soles alone escaping. Dr. Hervieux made trials with the secretion from the bull® to inoculate, but without result. Dr. Hervieux does not doubt the con- tagious character of the affection, but does not point to any special means of contagion. He is disposed to think it may be a variety of varicella. J. P. G-oodhart relates (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1870) a history which confirms the preceding. A suckling had an eruption of pemphigus on the tenth day, it lasted only a few days; then a sister two years old was affected, then a brother aged four. Pather and mother remained unaffected. The ‘ Eevue Medicale,’ 1870, gives an interesting case of fatal small- pox in a child twenty-seven days old ivhich had ten days before been vacci- nated. Two places were developed. The vesicles were very fine, and, therefore, largely used for revaccinating other persons. Two days after this was done'variolous eruption broke out on the infant. The greater number of the persons revaccinated from it took well, but iu none did any signs of smallpox appear. Animal vaccination, or vaccination direct from the heifer.—It is de- serving of record that this practice has been pursued in London by Dr. Blanc and Dr. Ballard, who both speak favorably of it. Dr. Ballard says the animal virus takes a longer time to go through its stages of evolution than the human virus. He says that, like the humanised virus, the animal virus keeps better on points than in tubes. (‘ Lancet’ and ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1869.) In a discourse delivered at the Academie de Medecine, M. Guerin discusses the modern views upon vaccination. He makes a triple dis- tinction :—1. Jennerian vaccination. 2. Human. 3. Animal vaccina- tion. He insists that, in any case, the cow-pox serves as the basis; but that in one case it is inoculated, in the other it is spontaneous. Jenner never inoculated direct from the animal to man, he simply used spontaneous cow-pox. Cow-pox must not be confounded with animal vaccination. Animal vaccination is slow in production, therefore the virus is less energetic, or finds a soil badly prepared for its germination. Its course is shorter, therefore the virus is weaker. The period of virulence is ephemeral, therefore the vitality of the virus is less. It is verv difficult to preserve; you must go back to the beast; therefore it is less active, less prompt, than in the Jennerian vaccine, which may be indefinitely preserved. As to the last question, the comparative pro- tection afforded against smallpox, the facts relating to animal vaccination are as yet too few. Time is wanting to prove its efficacy; but no one doubts that the question is settled as to the efficacy of the Jennerian vaccine. (‘Eevue Medicale,’ July, 1869.) Dr. Seaton (‘ Twelfth Eeport of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council,’ 1870) examines the subject. His investigations were carried