452 REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. hours without apparent result, possibly cause the effects which they ultimately produce by a simple poisoning of the blood. These experi- ments have a direct bearing upon the treatment of poisoning by the neurotics. Toulmouche* * * § contributes an interesting article on the rule of the medical jurist in cases of poisoning. The paper is long and insuscep- tible of useful abstraction, being cast into the form of criticisms on actual cases of suspected poisoning; it will, however, well repay pe- rusal. The chemical part of the question is not touched upon. Arsenic.—Dr. Sonnenschein,f of Berlin, draws attention to the wide distribution of arsenic in nature, as a constituent of many minerals and soils, replacing phosphorus in phosphates and sulphur in sulphides; also to its extensive distribution by artificial means, such as the steep- ing of seed-corn to prevent the ravages of smut, and the wafting of acid fumes from chemical manufactories. Arsenic is also found in the refuse from these factories, as in soda refuse, the refuse from acids, &c. These facts must not be lost sight of in medico-legal practice. The Divers’ Pollution Commissioners, in a blue book,;}; point out the abundant distribution of arsenic in the river-water of manufacturing districts, its origin being found in manufacturing refuse, soap, washing soda, &c. They add, “ We are by no means disposed to take an alarm- ist view of this wide distribution of arsenic amongst the community; indeed, as we find it to be contained in very appreciable quantity in the rain which falls in London, being derived in this case from coal-smoke, it is doubtless present in the rain-water of all our large towns, and, con- sequently, cannot be entirely excluded from rivers; nevertheless, its unnecessary introduction [into rivers, Ed.] cannot but be regarded as, on many grounds, undesirable.” Roth§ publishes a paper, as a preliminary announcement of an ex- tended series of researches, on the difference between the anatomical changes produced in cases of poisoning by arsenic and by phosphorus respectively. He states that whilst phosphorus produces in the stomach only ecchymoses and subsequent haemorrhagic erosions as visible altera- tions, together with a sodden appearance of the mucous membrane and of the submucous tissue—appearances which must be regarded as the results of stagnation of the blood—and that whilst the same passive exudations of blood follow the subcutaneous injection of arsenious acid, the internal administration of arsenious acid, either in the solid state or in solution, and even of the metal arsenic itself, invariably produces a truly inflammatory condition, and that this exhibits itself by results varying from simple capillary hyperaemia to diphtheritic exudation with much sanguineous infiltration of the submucous tissues, followed by ulceration; these phenomena being exhibited chiefly in the fundus and greater curvature of the stomach. When arsenic or arsenious acid was given in the solid form these appearances were likewise met with in the duodenum. The author found that a concentrated solution of arsenious * ‘Ann. d’Hyg.,’ xxii, p. 369. f ‘Horn’s Vierteljahrsschr.,’ xiii, p. 169. I 1 First Rep. of the Rivers’ Pollution Commissioners,’ p. 39. § ‘ Arch. f. Path. Anat.,’ xlv, p. 499.