DYSTOCIA TTtOM THE CHILD. 403 Dr. Hintel describes (‘Mod. f. Geburtsk.,’ 1869) a case of dystocia from the simultaneous entry of two heads into the pelvis. A midwife found a breech-presentation. Extraction was effected as far as the shoulders. Eintel found a second child in utero. lie applied forceps, and to his astonishment delivered this second child first. The first then followed. The child delivered by forceps and the mother did well. Dr. Eothe relates a case illustrating the mechanism of labour with united twins. A primipara in labour, was found with a face presenting; forceps applied drew down head very tediously; when the face came to the outlet the forceps slipped off, when the presenting part retreated. The same thing happened on a second trial. A third brought the face through, and respiratory efforts were seen. The pains were now stormy, but the trunk could not be drawn down. The whole hand was now introduced, and seized the thorax; under twisting and dragging the shoulders of a second child came down, then the head belonging to it came down. Considerable difficulty still opposed delivery ; but it was effected without mutilation. The mother recovered. The foetuses were dead, both female, mature. (‘Arch. f. Gynak.,’ 1870.) Dr. Max Lindmanu relates an instructive history of labour with a double monster. When called the patient was in strong labour ; the pelvic end of the child was lying forth in the first position. Traction on the feet was met by an irresistible obstacle ; the body could not be drawn out beyond its pelvis, although the force used broke the liga- ments of both hip-joints. That the woman was well formed was known from her having previously borne a full-grown child easily. The violent uterine contractions foiled external exploration. The fcetal abdomen was so large and out of proportion with the legs, as to fill the mother’s pelvis, preventing the entry of the hand. It was, therefore, concluded to perforate, when, after exvisceration, the body had some- what collapsed, the operator’s hand was gradually passed up to the neck of the child, when two necks were felt diverging from the trunk. A blunk hook was passed up the angle formed by the bifurcation of the necks, and after considerable difficulty the farther head was sepa- rated. Light traction, then, upon the trunk extracted this with the remaining head. The mother recovered well. (‘Monatsschr.f.Geburtsk.,’ June, 1869.) On acephalous monsters and protracted labours arising therefrom.— W. H. C. Curtis gives the result of his experience, which he says has been large, as to the influence of acephalous monsters upon labour. ITe says the labour is always protracted, and that there is more hemorrhage. Tie attributes the protraction to the absence of the fully-developed skull. _ As the uterus presses upon the child, the child’s body doubles upon itself, the back of the neck becoming the presenting part. All his cases he delivered by forceps. He says this mode or by turning ou°fit to be adopted. (‘Australian Medical Gazette,’ 1870.) Mr. James Oswald relates a case (‘ Obstetr. Trans.,’ 1870). A large pailful of liquor amnii escaped. The foetus presenting by arm was turned, but the body not descending it was found that the head adhered to tho posterior wall of the uterus. The adhesions being broken