16 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. cells : and has sought to establish that in the place of the disintegrated mucous cells young cells are developed in the crescent, which consti- tutes their brooding-place, and is a marginal zone of protoplasmic cells existing in every alveolus. Ewald, however, declares he has never seen any such process of formation of cells from the “ crescenton the other hand the mucous cells undergo very important changes, the protoplasm of the cell which ordinarily surrounds the lateral nucleus swelling out, and the cell-contents becoming granular, the nucleus itself taking up a more central position, so that ultimately no difference can be discovered between the central and the marginal cells. These two kinds of cells only differ in that the former possess, the latter are destitute of mucus, and they are consequently only varieties of the same cell. PANCREAS. LITER. BILE. GLYCOGEN. Langerhans* * * § publishes an essay on the microscopical anatomy of the pancreas, which, however, does not appear to contain any points of extraordinary interest. Saviottif describes the ducts of the pancreas as terminating in fine intercellular passages similar to those admitted by Heriug in the liver. Bernstein^ found in his experiments on the pancreas that no secretion occurred during fasting, but that it attained its maximum from two to three hours after the ingestion of food, then diminished, increased again from about the fifth to the seventh hour, and fell to a minimum at the fifteenth hour. Irritation of the centric extremity of the cut vagus caused suppression of the secretion. Section of the nerves accompanying the pancreatic arteries caused persistent and abundant secretion. It was arrested by vomiting. M. Legouis§ describes the structure of the pancreas of the osseous fishes. M. Ch. Legros|| gives the results of his researches on the ultimate distribution of tbe biliary ducts, which he describes as forming a plexus of interlobular canals lined by a columnar epithelium from which a well defined system of intralobular passages is given off lined by tesselated epithelium. These contain the voluminous hepatic cells in their meshes. Very elaborate descriptions of the structure of the liver have also been given by Dr. H. D. Schmidt,of New Orleans, of which a good abstract will be found in Dr. Lawson’s ‘ Monthly Microscopical Journal’ for August, 1870, and by Ewald Hering, in the third part of Strieker’s « Manual of Histology,’ which will soon be in the hands of the members of this society. Both admit the existence of a fine plexus of biliary tubes running between and grooving the surfaces of the hepatic cells. Kisselew,** of Charkow, finds, from injections made under the super- intendence of Prof. Chrzonszczewsky, that the larger lymphatics of the liver possess proper walls composed of finely fibrillated connective tis- * Inaug. Diss. Berlin, 1869. f Max Schultze’s ‘ Archiv f. Microscop. Anat.,’ v, Heft. iv. X ‘ Sitz. ber. tier Sachs Akad.J 1869, p. 96. § ‘Comptes Rendus,’ 1870, i, p. 1098. || ‘Comptes Rend./ 1870, i, p. 815. If See ‘New Orleans Journal of Medicine,’ Oct. 1869. ** «Centralblatt f. d. Med. Wiss.,’ 1869, p. 147.