REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 370 effectual than by the fingers in supporting the uterus and in dilating the cervix. Case 3.—Inversion of 10 months. Dr. Thomas began by putting the patient on the free use of belladonna, directed a stream of water against the inverted uterus three times a day, and placed suppositorfes of belladonna in the rectum. Under ether he grasped the tumour, so that the fingers surrounded the pedicle; he then pushed the mass steadily upwards against the abdominal wall, where it met the counter-pressure of his left hand. In exactly ten minutes the entire cervix yielded, and the body went up ; then seizing the body with the thumb on one horn, and the index finger pressing the other, the horn pressed by the thumb became indented, soon the other hornfollowed, and in justtwenty- five minutes the operation was completed. Case 4.—Inversion of 21 months. Several attempts at reduction by forcible taxis and by wearing a vaginal air pessary had failed. Dr. Thomas resorted to the belladonna and douche, as in case 3, for a week, but an hour’s persistence in the methods narrated, aided by the abdominal plug, resulted in only partially expanding the cervix. A caoutchouc bag was then placed in the vagina, and attempts renewed next day, with no better success. Next the uterus was drawn down, and an incision was made in the tissue of the neck towards the sub- jacent peritoneum. A free jet of blood followed ; many attempts were made to tie the vessel, but failed ; the bleeding was at last stopped by stitching the lips of the wound together. A week later the follow- ing remarkable proceeding was carried out. The uterus was lifted up so that the operator could feel the cervical ring against the abdominal wall. He then cut down in the median line, as for an exploratory in- cision in ovariotomy; then he inserted his finger into the uterine sac, and found there was no adhesion. He then inserted a steel dilator made on the principle of a glove-stretcher, into the cervix, aud expanded the blades. “ The dilatation was easy and rapid,” but contraction re- turned as soon as the dilator was withdrawn. The uterus was drawn down, and one horn pushed in, then the other, and the organ was reduced. The vessel which had bled so profusely a week before burst out again. This was, however, stopped. A finger passed through between the uterus and bladder. The abdominal wound was closed by silver sutures; the vaginal rent was not interfered with. The patient quite recovered. (The proceeding seems a desperate one, but it is better than amputation. It might, however, possibly have been avoided by more systematic application of elastic pressure.—B. B.) Dr. Miller’s paper on inversion is mainly critical. It is a plea for ampu- tation. He discusses the value of Dr. Thomas’s operation as compared with amputation. He contends that the loss of the uterus is not so much to be considered, for, the ovaries being preserved, the woman retains her sexual character. He institutes a statistical comparison between the results of amputation and of manipulative measures, and appears to argue that manipulation is necessarily so severe as to show a mortality scarcely inferior to amputation. (He does not notice the reporter’s