481 ACETIC ETHER. Dr. Steinander finds this substance very useful in cases of epilepsy. Mr Douo-all, who has experimented on animals, and only slightly on man, find°s that the symptoms produced by its administration are rest- lessness, imperfect sleep, dyspnoea, orthopnoea, salivation, and, m la a doses, convulsions. He also found that when bromal hydrate was used hypodermically the simultaneous injection of an alkali neutralizes the restlessness and other unpleasant symptoms. Should these expe- riments of Mr. Dougall’s be confirmed, it is improbable that this agent can ever be employed to any great extent in therapeutics. . That it will ever rank with chloral hydrate as an hypnotic appears in the mean time improbable. Ethylates and caustics— Dr. B. W. Richardson* has introduced these bodies, well known to scientific chemists, as caustics, and believes them to be the most effective and manageable of all substances for that pur- pose, and that they will prove of essential service in cases of cancer when it is thought desirable to destroy the structure without resorting to the knife, and in cases of nasvus and other simple growths. The ethylates of the alkali-metals are crystalline substances prepared by the action of alkali-metals, as, for instance, sodium on alcohol, and they are usually regarded as alcohol in which one atom of hydrogen has been replaced by metal. Potassic ethylate is the most energetic of the ethylates. They are readily soluble in alcohol, and alcoholic solutions of any desired strength can be readily applied with a glass brush or injected by the needle; and a slow or rapid action can be insured at the will of the operator. The rationale of their action is doubtless that on account of their avidity for water they attract this from the tissues, and that then caustic alkali is produced and alcohol is re- formed, thus:—(C2H5) KO + H20 = (C2H6)HO + KHO. Triethylic ether—When the above ethylates are acted upon by chlo- roform, triethylic ether is produced, thus :—3C2H5NaO + CHC13 = 3NaCl + C7H1603 (triethylic ether). Great care is required in the preparation to secure a fair product, for the action is very energetic. Triethylic ether is a heavy, aromatic, ethereal fluid, having a sp. gr. of o'896°, a boiling-point of 2970 Pahr., and a vapour density of 5‘ii4. Physiologically, it appears to act much like alcohol. Dr. B. W. Richard- sonf has used it as a menstruum for ethylic ether for the production of general anaesthesia. Enough of the triethylic ether is carried over during the evaporation of the ethylic ether to form with this a mixed vapour which is very pleasant to breathe and equable in action. The ether forms also an excellent mixture with bichloride of methylene. Acetic ether.—Dr. Horatio E. Wood,! of Philadelphia, proposes this, to the chemist well-known substance, us an anaesthesia Acetic ether (C2H30)(C2H5)0 is prepared by distilling alcohol with sulphuric acid and an acetate. It has a peculiar, pleasant, fruity odour, very closely resembling that of ripe apples, which, perhaps, owe their smell to this ether or to malic ether. It is less volatile than ordinary ethylic ether, and is comparatively non-inflammable. In pigeons and rabbits it in- duces perfect insensibility without nearly so much previous struggling * ‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1870, ii, p. 469. f Ibid., p. 472. + ‘ Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc.,’ cxix, p. 137. 31