266 REPOUT ON SURGERY, that position by a minute fissure of the bone, which was so close that, but for the tuft of hair, it could not be recognised. The application of the trephine evacuated an intra-cranial and extra-membranous abscess, and, lying on the dura-mater, was a thin flake of lead like a flattened shot pellet, which had obviously been shaved off the passing ball, by which the fracture and temporary depression of the bone had been pro- duced, and by which the tuft of hair had been introduced.” In a second case, some weeks after a gunshot wound, trephining gave exit to a quantity of pus, and, also, led to the discovery of a ball lodged in the left hemisphere. The third case was that of a student, who received a punctured wound of the skull in a row. For three weeks he attended “classes,” then headache and sleeplessness came on. On examination, a wound through the skull was found, and a probe came in contact with a piece of loose, bare bone. After the removal of this some pent-up matter escaped. “ With such experiences, and with the well-known results of interference and non-interference, as observed in the Schles- wig-Holstein campaign, in the Prusso-Austrian campaign, and in the American civil war, I acknowledge I am much inclined to recommend non-interference in all cases of cranial injury, even of the punctured kind; except, indeed, in those cases where some very plain and obvious indication for interference presses itself upon the attention of the sur- geon.” (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ July, 1870.) Brain Shocks.—Mr. Callender writes on the anatomy of brain shocks (Barth. Hosp. Rep. v., p. 3 to 43), in continuation of a former com- munication. We can only quote his brief summary, p. 42. “It seems to me the following points deserve attention:—1. The rapidly fatal results which followed bleeding into (a), the pons ; (b), the ventricles ; (c), the surface of the brain. 2. The rapidly fatal results of bleeding into the right hemisphere, outside the thalamus and corpus striatum, as compared with bleeding into the corresponding parts of the left side. 3. The condition of the pupils, which in the great majority of cases are fixed midway between the extremes of contraction and of dila- tation. 4. The small number of cases in which vision is affected, including cases in which both sides of the brain happen to be diseased or injured. 3. The occurrence of pain in connexion with affections of the outer grey matter of the brain; its absence in all cases of bleeding into the substance of the corpora striata, or optic tbalami, or both. 6. The general agreement of these cases with the propositions—that with loss of speech (a), the anterior cerebral lobes, or the parts about the corpus striatum or the motor tract are diseased or injured; (b), that such disease or injury involves the left side; (c), that whilst the parts about the corpus striatum are found to be diseased, it is not evident that the disease or injury is limited in these cases to the third parietal convolution (so called). 7. The comparative recovery of speech during the stage of delirium. 8. The association of convulsions (a), with disease about the track or distribution of great vessels, especially of the middle cerebral arteries ; (b), with the shock of a lioemorrhage. o. The connexion of convulsions with left sided paralysis, and with dis- ease of the right hemisphere external to the optic thalamus and corpus striatum.