REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 42 0 Halford’s treatment of poisoning from snake-bite, be injected a solution ol one part of liq. ammoniac to three of water, to the extent of hall a drachm, into one of the veins of the forearm. AVhen the ope- ration was over the patient complained of great pain over the whole body. She soon began to mend ; pulse fell from 135 to 100. A small ulcer formed at seat of puncture. She was convalescent in ten days. Mr. Wells stated (op. cit.) that he injected half a drachm of liq. ammo- niac into the veins of a woman suffering from pyaemia two days after ovariotomy. Scarcely more than momentary revival followed. * A large fibrinous clot was found filling up the left ventricle. Dr. Craig contributes a case of puerperal tetanus. The subject was thirty-seven years old, and had had seven children in Australia. In her eighth pregnancy haemorrhage occurred twice from a varicose sore in the leg. She was delivered at term by a midwife, and attempts were made by the midwife to bring away the placenta ; haemorrhage ensued, and Dr. Craig was called in, who removed the placenta. The patient rallied and appeared to be doing well for more than a week ; milk was formed copiously; pulse was 80, it was often 100. On the ninth day she complained of her throat. Difficulty in deglutition increased, and trismus was apparent. Next day she was much worse; the pulse was 130 to 140 ; opisthotonos was developed; she was perfectly conscious, and described her feeling as if a “ ton weight was dragging her head backwards tbe “ risus sardonicus” was very distinct. She died forty hours from the beginning of the attack. The case occurred in Edin- burgh in November. The treatment consisted in aperients, fomenta- tions to the throat, Indian hemp, turpentine enema. The fajces had a most offensive smell. (‘Edinb. Med. Journ.,’ 1870.) Phlegmasia dolens.—Dr. C. C. P. Clark, of Oswego, lauds opium as the best remedy. He says it cures the disease. He gives it to the point of subduing pain. (‘Medical Becord,’ 1870.) Dr. Bailly gives a case of phlegmasia dolens; autopsy revealed general and suppurative peritonitis; a purulent collection in the pelvis behind the pubis; the principal veins of the left leg were completely obliterated by clots at the valvules; these clots were traced in continuity to the uterine branches of the hypogastric veins. Dr. Bailly deduces that phlegmasia dolens always proceeds from uterine phlebitis. (‘ Bull, de la Soc. Anatom, de Paris,’ 1867.) Dr. Hayden relates an interesting case of pelvic cellulitis. The subject, set. 30, had been delivered three weeks of her first child when admitted. There was then no hectic, but marked emaciation, great tenderness over the abdomen, constipation. An enema tube could not be made to pass. In the course of a month the abdomen began to swell in a marked degree. The umbilicus projected and gave way, pus beino- discharged in large quantities. This flowed for a month so freely as to°flood the bed. She sank. Autopsy.—The exact source of the pus was not determined, but it was considered to be a case of pelvic cellu- litis. The uterus was free from disease. There was a great quantity of pus in the abdominal cavity proceeding from the right iliac fossa. The matter, before escaping through the umbilicus, had been free in the peritoneal cavity. (‘Dubl. Quart. Journ. of Med.,’ 1871.)