366 REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. Jaeger to be due to the greater thickness of the walls of these vessels, by which their transparency is so much abated that they become visible as opaque objects in their entire diameter. This explanation agrees equally with Dr. Loring’s explanation, it being conceded that the walls of the retinal vessels are so thin as to be practically transparent. It is readily understood that where the blood is very dark the reflex must be diminished, although perhaps not abolished ; hence the fainter streak seen in the retinal veins. It is necessary to record a few variations in the form of old oph- thalmoscopes, or attempts at the construction of new ones ; in both cases chiefly with a view to obtain improvements in demonstrating instruments, or a greater enlargement of the details of the image. Dr. Poncet* has contrived a small and portable ophthalmoscope that forms its own dark chamber, so that it can be used in a lighted room. It is made by MM. Nachet. Dr. Wecker has contrived a new demonstrating ophthalmoscope, which was exhibited at Heidelberg in 1869, and has since been described.f In conjunction with Dr. Roger,j; Wecker has also arranged an oph- thalmoscope having two prisms behind its objective, so placed that two inverted images are produced, and that one of them can be seen by each of two observers at the same time. Javal§ has introduced an ophthalmoscope on the general principle of that of Helmholtz, but with a single plate of slightly platinized glass, and with a small opera glass in place of the concave lens. The opera glass admits of adjustment, and the instrument becomes also an optometer. Dr. Burke, late chef de clinique to Dr. Wecker, has fitted up an arrangement resembling that of Klaunig, but substituting two concave mirrors, one of which has a central perforation, for Klaunig’s silvered convex lenses; and in this way he has obtained an instrument of hitherto unapproached excellence, both as regards enlargement and illumination. Finally, de Montmeja has contrived a fixed ophthalmoscope of great simplicity and cheapness, which seems to unite many of the advantages of Liebreich’s and Foilin's instruments, and to be free from some of their defects.|| Dr. Maurice Perrin^[ describes his artificial eye, intended to facilitate the acquirement of the art of ophthalmoscopic investigation. It con- sists of a brass globe the size of an eyeball, having an aperture for a picture at the back and an aperture for a lens in front. The picture is painted on a cup-shaped disc of copper, and can be changed at pleasure, so as to represent a normal eye, or any diseased condition. The lenses supplied are three in number. One marked E, M, is mounted in rather a long tube. When screwed home, its focal length is the length of the axis of the eyeball, and the eye is emmetropic. By partially unscrewing it, any desired degree of myopia may be produced. A second lens, marked h, is of lower power; and, when screwed home, leaves the eye hypermetropic. A third is cylindrical, and renders the * ‘Gaz. Hebdora.,’ 1869, Aoftt, p. 501. f ‘ Iilinisehe Monatsblatter,’ 1869. j ‘ Bull, de l’Acad. des Sciences,’ 4 Avril, 1870. § ‘Gazette Hebdom.,’ 1870, p. 278. || Made by Dutrou, Paris, for fifty francs ; described in ' Pathologie Iconograpluque du fond de l’CEil,’ par A. de Montmeja,’ Paris, 1870. If ‘ Annales d’Oculistique,’ 1869, i, p. 163.