POISONING. 451 was next found that the paralysis produced depends on an action on the motor nerves and on the spinal cord. The rate at which each ot these actions is produced by the various specimens of conia examined varied in a remarkable and, at first sight, perplexing manner. In the case of Christison’s conia the former of these actions is the more power- ful, while with Morson’s and with methyl-conia the two are nearly equally prominent. Chemical examination of the two specimens proved that, while both contained methyl-conia, this base was much more abundant in Morson’s than in Christison’s conia. Physiological, examination confirmed this result, for the action of the former specimen ol conia more closely resembles that of methyl-conia than the latter. In other words, the conia containing the smallest proportion of methyl-conia acts most purely as a paralyser of motor nerves. Although the authors have not yet succeeded in obtaining a pure specimen ot normal conia, it seems to them a legitimate deduction that conia altogether free from methyl-conia will be free from all spinal action, and will, accordingly, produce paralysis solely by influencing the motor nerves. The com- paratively feeble potency of Morson’s as compared with Christison’s conia cannot be explained by its containing a large proportion of methyl-conia, for the activity of this substance is about the same as that of Christison’s conia ; it may be due to ammonia. Experiments with the salts of dimethyl-conia showed that the lethal activity of this alkaloid is greatly less than that of either conia or methyl-conia, whilst the spasmodic symptoms which were among the effects of conia and of methyl-conia were entirely absent, the symptoms being those of paralysis only. There was no spinal-paralysing action, and the paralysis produced was proved to depend upon an action on the motor nerves, primarily restricted to their peripheral terminations. Poisonous action of neurotics.—Dr. Lewisson,* of Berlin, contri- butes some valuable toxicological researches on frogs deprived of blood. These experiments were instituted for the purpose of deter- mining how far neurotic poisons act directly on the nervous system, or, on the other hand, indirectly by a primary action on some of the chemical constituents of the blood and its corpuscles. It has been shown by Cohnheim, and is now well known, that a solution of common salt may be injected into the blood-vessels of the frog so as to wash out the blood nearly completely. If the process of injection be continued, with short intermissions, for an hour and a half, the result is that a fluid circulates essentially composed of salt water, with a very few red and rather more white corpuscles. In the animals thus treated the heart beats vigorously, and the power of voluntary motion is retained to a considerable extent. Now, if a neurotic poison, e. g. morphia or chlo- roform, administered to such frogs, act at all, it must be by a direct action on the nervous system, and not by changing any of the constituents of the blood. He concludes that all neurotics whose action on frogs is rapid have a direct influence on the nervous system. In other words, such neurotics as produce a speedy action in normal frogs were found to have a like influence on salted frogs. Such substances, however, as hydrogen, carbonic acid, and carbonic oxide, which may act on frogs for * ‘ Archiv f. Anat. u. Physiol.,’ 1870, p. 346.