YELLOW FEVER. 59 four hours after the invasion of the fever, a few drops of nitric acid are poured down the sides of a glass containing about 150 grammes of the urine, there is formed, almost immediately, or a few seconds after- wards, a ’whitish albuminoid zone, separating the fluid into two parts, the upper layer unchanged in colour, the lower one having become reddish, and, at its lowest part, more or less orange coloured. This zone, which he calls “ the premonitory ring (anneau pre'monitoire), is never seen in the other two diseases, and is diagnostic of the com- mencement of yellow fever. It varies in thickness, is soluble in excess of acid, or rather takes a greenish hue from below upwards. As the ring disappears, the urine becomes effervescent, the effervescence show- ing" itself with the period of improvement, the pulse falling at the same time to 60, and the affection promising to terminate in recovery. Corre (“ Lesions observees dans la fievre jaune,” ‘ Graz, des Hop.,’ 1869, p. 181) gives a table of the lesions found after death in seventy- six autopsies of yellow fever made at Vera-Cruz; the most noticeable phenomena, occurring in about half of the cases, were the lesions of the scrotum, which presented in eleven cases livid, and in three erysipela- tous, patches ; ecchymoses in eleven ; ulcers in two ; gangrene in four ; scleroses in two; and cedematous infiltration in one. This affection of the scrotum had been pointed out first by Blaes and Cornilliac, the latter of whom, in his ‘ Studies of Yellow Lever at Martinique,’ says that at the end of the third, fourth, or even fifth day of the invasion, the parts of the scrotum in contact with the thighs become very painful and secrete a serous moisture ; in a short time the scrotum ulcerates, the epidermis falls off in patches, and leaves to view the vascular network of the skin of that part and of the perinaeum, while an exudation takes place of a sero-sanguinolent fluid, which later becomes red. Noticed in other epidemics, these lesions, from simple erythema to gangrene, occurred in the majority of the yellow fever cases at Vera-Cruz in 1862. Pellarin (‘ Arch, de Med. Nav.,’ xiii, p. 19) gives a long paper on the pathology and anatomy of yellow fever; and, among other conclusions, asserts that, though it is essentially a general disease, it is fatal only through the local affections developed in its course, notably that of the liver, which may be regarded as the principal centre of the disease, and the cause of several severe symptoms, as well as of secondary alterations in the blood and urine. He considers yellow fever, in spite of its offering many analogies to bilious hsematuric fever, to be noso- logically distinct from that disease. Other papers are— “ Abstract of Letters of Dr. Poggio on Yellow Fever in Cuba.”—c Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1869, ii, 516. Bellay, “ Etude sur la Recente Epidemie de Fievre jaune qui a sevi ii la Guadeloupe ” (1868-69).—‘Arch, de Med. Nav.,’ 1870, xiii, p. 177.