REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 318 more than twenty-four hours may elapse between a perfectly normal state and the complete development of an abscess. At first, the pus- corpuscles are interspersed among the parenchyma of the cornea, and the eventual cavity of the abscess is only dull and grey, and not yet with a distinctly limited boundary. At this period the corneal injec- tion is usually of a bright red, and abscesses can only be diagnosed by reference to etiological data, such as injury to the cornea, pre-existing variola, &e., &c. Afterwards, when the yellow colour and the circular boundary are well marked, the pus-corpuscles probably do not form a continuous liquid, but are infiltrated in the tissue as in a felt, so that they cannot be evacuated by puncture. It is only by the duration of the inflammatory process, by considering its more or less acute character, by the duller colour of the pericorneal injection, by the more distinct appearance of the yellow of pus, and especially by palpation of the spot by a sound or Daviel’s scoop, that certainty of obtaining liquid by puncture can be reached. In time, however, a trustworthy symptom of total breaking down and of the confluence of pus-corpuscles is dis- played—this is the absence of resistance and the apparent depression of the anterior wall of the abscess, a state which must not be confounded with a complete or partial stripping of the epithelium. At this period the abscess may be easily mistaken for a superficial ulceration, and the pus is often found in some second locality, rarely as onyx, more fre- quently as hypopyon. The depression of the anterior wall may be explained in various ways. In some cases there can be no doubt that, when the process has reached a certain height, a portion of the contents of the abscess may be removed by absorption. It happens also that the pus may pass between the fibres of the cornea and show itself as onyx. By lateral illumina- tion it is sometimes possible to see a turbid streak between the ulcer and the onyx, showing the route taken by the pus. Sometimes perfo- ration takes place at one or more points, and allows the escape of pus, leaving an opening through which a probe may be introduced and moved about in the cavity. Spontaneous perforation of the posterior wall may also occur, leading to the form of hypopyon which was called true by Ilimly and ancient writers, false by Mackenzie and others. When the cavity of the abscess is nearly empty, and its walls have fallen together, a well-defined line of pus is left in the angle all round the margin, held there by capillarity, and forming a distinct zone encircling a lighter centre. It is then easy to mistake the condition for a superficial ulcer, having an annular or falciform nebulosity at its margin, and with a tendency to spread. It is necessary to inquire what is the reason of this tendency to super- ficial extension, rather than to perforation and escape of the aqueous humour, the latter result being desirable, since it generally arrests the suppurative process. In the first place, we have the clinging of the pus to the already described angle between the parietes, and the consequent tendency to the extension of the suppurative process by contiguity; and next, the to-and-fro movements impressed upon the anterior wall by those of the eyelids. A consideration of these conditions leads us