REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 1G0 arteries and felt and heard in them. The third case, also in a man, was of the same kind as the last. The fourth case, in a man set. 26, who had had rheumatic fever five times, was diagnosed as one of aortic regurgitation, with well-marked regurgitant pulse, and a murmur inau- dible at the base, but audible at the apex. The same point was illus- trated in the. fifth case, that of a woman set. 44, an obese patient Aveighted with an abdominal tumour, who was supposed to suffer from rupture of the aortic valves, caused by violent exertion and emotion, and in whom the same physical signs were present as in the fourth case. The sixth case is given as furnishing a curious violation of the laws of con- duction and convection. It was that of a woman who was admitted with acute articular rheumatism, and in whom the murmur was heard at the part from which the blood was flowing (the aortic orifice), and the natural sound at that to which it was flowing (the ventricle). The case could not be further followed out, and is to some extent, therefore, unsatisfactory. Moxon (ib., 608) holds that a more important question than the seat of a valvular obstruction in the heart is the nature of the disease which causes it, whether that disease be ulcerative, and hence spreading, or whether constrictive, and hence quiescent, though permanent. ITe thinks that if we were better able to separate the cases of the latter from those of the former disease, we should be better able to treat the tAvo affections—the latter demanding means for mechanical relief, the former requiring the quality of the blood depraved by the ulcer products to be especially regarded. He gives a case of ulcerative endocarditis in a man, set. 25, which suggests, as do other cases of the same kind, that an important means of diagnosis, hitherto unnoticed, may be found iu the size of the spleen, which is generally small and hard in obstructive, and large and soft in ulcerative heart disease. In this case there had been, during life, a loud systolic bruit over the cardiac region, with the ordinary symptoms of heart disease. After death there was found ulceration of the aortic valves; acute aneurism of the heart and of the aorta from the friction of the vegetations on the val\res; and a spleen weighing 24-loz. (Cf. ‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xix, 148.) Aufrecht (‘ Perl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1869, p. 317) gives the autopsy of an epileptic imbecile, a woman, set. 28, who died suddenly, and who had suffered from aortic valvular disease for six years before her death. Por the last year and a half no trace of the valve affection was present. The right ventricle Avas greatly enlarged. All the valves were normal ex- cept those of the aorta. Instead of the latter, were found two vei-y large, thickened, but well-acting valves, one anterior and one posterior. At^their right extremity, where they joined, was a hard rough nodule, the size of a pea. This he looks upon as the remains of the third valve, destroyed by a former inflammation. The tAvo remaining valves became hypertrophied, and so were completely able to prevent insufficiency of the aortic orifice. Peter, “ De l’Endocardite,” ‘ GazT des Hop.,’ 1869, 109; Durosiez, Two Cases of Nar- rowing of the Mitral, and three of Narrowing of Tricuspid, ib., 423 ; Bottentuit, “ Ana- sarque Generalise; insuffisance Mitrale et degenerescence granulo-graisseuse du foie et des reins,” ib., 61; Letievant, “Endocardite Ulcereuse, Gangrene de la jambe gauche,