REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 40 patients, gradually became emaciated, and presented, after death, nume- rous tubercles in the lungs. As the birds died sometimes before the patients, these observers made use of the fact for diagnosis. (2) Chatin ted three rabbits on fragments of cheesy and tuberculous lung, and three others on cancer-substance from the liver and stomach of another patient; all the animals were killed two months after the last feeding. Of the three first, fed on tubercle, one was healthy in every respect; one, less fat, presented granulations in the lungs, liver, and kidneys, to- gether with a lung-abscess ; the third, very fat, two patches of agglome- rated tubercular granulations over the pleura of one lung-lobe. Of the three fed on cancer, &c., one presented the same appearance as the last. The other two had tuberculosis of mesentery, liver, and kidneys, while the lungs were healthy. Prom these experiments he concludes that tuberculosis is not a specific disease, inasmuch as identical lesions are set up by the two different products, tubercle and cancer. The paper concludes with a list of animals in whom spontaneous (i. e. not arti- ficial) tuberculosis is or is not common. It was read before the Societe des Sciences Medicales, and M. Tripier, who had examined microscopically the patches found in the two animals, asserted that they were identical with the alterations found in chronic inflammation, neither specific nor infectious (pysemic), and Sanderson, who saw them, agreed with him. He added that the experiments made by him in combination with M. Arlong, as to the transmission of cancer to animals, had given only negative results. In two dogs inoculated with matter from a mammary (fibrous) carcinoma, a number of small granulations in the kidneys were not considered cancerous, but due to inflammation. In answer to M. Mayet as to animals subject to spontaneous tuberculosis, M. Saint-Cyr said that tuberculous phthisis was common in the Bovidse, more so in cows than in oxen, frequent after eight years of age, but not found under two years, and more frequent in some countries than in others. Saint-Cyr does not recognise true tubercle in the horse, but looks upon the publisbed cases as being probably glanders ; it is very rare in dogs, in which, on the other band, cancer is often met with ; and rare in rabbits and sheep. In regard to the assumed non-identity of tubercle and cancer in the last paper, it may be well to refer here to a memoir of M. Burdet, read before the Academy of Medicine (‘ Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ 1869, p. 204) in which be holds that an enormous majority of phthisical patients are born of parents affected with cancer {Of. in report on this note, M. Yigla, ib., 1870^.283). The experiments of Dubuisson (£ Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ 1869, p. 442) on rabbits, dogs, and guinea pigs, which had been fed upon tuberculous substances, or inoculated with various tuberculous and cancerous matters, lead him to the following conclusions: 1. The matters inoculated are, as a rule, harmless, the nature of the products employed not influencing the result. 2. They sometimes produce rapid symptoms, with death by a sort of poisoning (septicaemia?). 3. In some cases lobular pneumonias are produced, which are perhaps consecutive to the inoculation, and maybe confounded with the tubercles.