499 SCARLET ELVER. and other large towns that have suffered from epidemics of this disease. (5) Neither the architecture of the houses, their proximity, the situa- tion of the privies and closets, the method of removing the excreta, nor the plan of sewering, in the least explains the immunity. (6) Just as little can this be deduced from the provision of the town with drink- ing-water, which, until 1858, was very defective. (7) The immunity may be partly explained by the influence of the soil, but this will not apply to that part of the city which is built directly upon compact rock, granite, or the loam overlying this. (8) Those parts of Lyons which lie upon fluviatile soil owe their immunity to the peculiar state of the ground-water, a state which is unfavorable to the production of y. (9) The ground-water of these parts of the city does not lie above the level of the stream, as is commonly the case, and as it is observed to do in Paris, Munich, and many other cities, but it lies at a lower level, and its level is, through the imperviousness of the river bank, de- termined almost exclusively by the level of the Rhone. (10) A con- siderable portion of the waters of the Ithone and of the Saone tunnels through the exceedingly porous soil of the town; and from this pecu- liarity, not only does the rain falling there, but also a great part of that falling in remote regions, act constantly upon the soil of Lyons, and renders it too humid, or too little liable to fluctuations in its state of humectation, to be effective in producing cholera epidemics. (11) In the summer and autumn of 1854, when this state of things had changed essentially in consequence of the Rhone maintaining for six months the lowest level observed for forty years, certain parts of the city, which till then had invariably enjoyed immunity, in consequence of their re- lations to ground-water, were indubitably, though slightly, affected with an epidemic of cholera. Other quarters of the city, in conse- quence of their different conditions of soil, still retained their immu- nity. (12) The year 1854 thus indicated the level below which the waters of the Rhone (and consequently the level of the ground-water in Lyons) cannot fall without that portion of the city lying upon fluvi- atile deposits becoming liable to epidemics of cholera. These condi- tions of soil and ground-water are not met with in the other large towns of the south of France. Relapsing Fever. In the winter of 1869-70 England, and more especially the metro- polis, was visited with an epidemic of relapsing or famine fever, a disease not observed in this country since the time of the potato famine. Happily the disease was met with some amount of energy, and soon disappeared. In one respect relapsing fever had an unsatis- factory result: but little was added to our knowledge of this disease. A note by Mr. Simon,* the Medical Officer of the Privy Council, states the means taken to stay the progress of the malady. Scarlet Fever. During the past two years scarlet fever has committed the direst * ‘Twelfth Report,’ pp. 7, 65.