REPORT ON SURGERY. 221 sued. On Nov. io, 1870, eleven months after the operation, it is noted that the man could walk three or four miles with ease, and did not require a stick for walking purposes, although he always used one to improve the general balance of his body, which was somewhat disturbed by spinal curvature. Figures of the deformity, of the instruments, of the seat of section, and of the result, are given (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Dec. 24, 1870). There is also a note appended of the case of a young woman on whom Mr. Jessop operated successfully. The operation has also been performed by Mr. W. Jowers and by Mr. Furneaux Jordan. The patient in the latter case was a young woman, set. 16. The adductor longus and long head of rectus required tenotomy. The result pro- mised to be successful. Division of femur for bony anchylosis.—Mr. Erichsen has cut through the femur of a young woman, for anchylosis of the hip, after the plan of Drs. Bauer and Sayre. The head and neck had been absorbed, and greater part of the acetabulum. The bone was sawn as close to the pelvis as possible. A large longitudinal wound was left down the outer part of the thigh, but the patient promised to do well. (‘ Lancet,’ March 20, 1869.) Removal of the rectum, prostate, and base of the bladder ; recovery.— Professor Nussbaum, of Munich, relates a remarkable case of this kind in No. 44 of the ‘ Baier. Aerztliches Intelligenzblatt ’ for 1869. Already, in 1863, he had described, in the same journal, several cases in ■which he had successfully operated on the rectum on account of cancer, although the bladder or the vagina was involved in the disease. In all these cases the patients, who had been near to death, survived for months, or even years, without suffering, until a return of the disease put an end to their lives. In October, 1866, Nussbaum was consulted by a master smith, who had not had a stool for sixteen days. He was unable to bear a clyster, and was greatly reduced by haemorrhages from the rectum; he also frequently passed blood in his urine. An examination of the rectum was made with difficulty, on account of the presence of a cancerous stricture. It gave rise to much haemorrhage from both the rectum and the bladder. Nussbaum ascertained that the patient had cancer of the rectum, and that a part of the urethra, the entire prostate, and a portion of the neck of the bladder, were involved in the disease. The patient was desirous of having the diseased mass removed, but, on account of its great extent, Nussbaum at first declined to comply. At last, how- ever, the patient refusing to bear any further attempts at dilatation, on account of the pain which they produced, Nussbaum operated in the following manner:—The patient having been placed under the influence of chloroform, a semilunar incision was made round the anus on both sides. The muscular fibres of the sphincter, which remained healthy, were pushed aside, and the finger was passed up to the extent of four inches. Here it reached healthy, loose, elastic connective tissue surrounding the rectum, except in the anterior fourth, where the bladder and the prostate were involved in the cancerous mass. At this point Nussbaum cut through the adherent portion of the prostate with