150 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. upon it as pathognomonic, as it is frequently present -in health and in other conditions, and holds that if Geigel’s view is right it should be found in cases of mitral insufficiency. He thinks that the divided sound is set up at the mitral valve by the edges of the latter, and the blood passing in from the auricle. If there were a real double second sound, Skoda’s explanation would hold good ; one would be the mitral obstructive murmur, the other that of the pulmonary and aortic valves. Moreover, in opposition to Geigel, Guttmann finds the second sound most marked at the apex. Sanders (‘ Edin. Med. Journ.,’ xiv, 584) remarks on the variability in intensity, quality and audibility, of organic cardiac murmurs. He has found the presystolic bruit of mitral contraction to vary most, and sometimes completely to disappear. Bartels (‘ Deut. Arch.,’ vi, 111) inquires into the cause of a systolic murmur heard in one portion or other, or over the whole, of a lung, in several cases which he gives. In his first case, though the post-mortem examination does not seem to have been performed with sufficient accuracy to prove it, he considers that the murmur, heard over the whole upper lobe of the left lung, was due to stricture of both primary branches of the pulmonary artery and their first offsets, in consequence of chronic interstitial pneumonia, as in a case recorded by Immermann (‘Deut. Arch.,’ v, 235). In another case the murmur, heard on tbe right of the sternum from above the third rib to the clavicle, was evidently caused by the pressure of pleuritic effusion, its intensity diminishing and increasing with the emptying and refilling of an empyema. The other five patients in whom the murmurs occurred were affected with chronic pneumonia (partial condensation of lung- tissue), but the murmur had its seat, not in thickened, but in still normal portions of lung; in four of the five not in the lung which was really diseased, but in a lung which at the time of the examination was completely normal in all other particulars except the presence of this murmur. After briefly reviewing the bibliography of the question he analyses Ererich’s three groups of murmurs, which, though synchro- nous with the heart’s rhythm, do not originate in that organ ; the first group caused by pressure of the stethoscope—compression murmur of the pulmonary artery in the second left intercostal space—in children, and in adults with very thin and elastic chest-walls; to this group belong also the systolic murmurs very commonly observed in the same artery as it courses through the left upper lobe, from pressure of thickened lung-tissue* on its primary trunk. With this group Bartels compares his case of empyema. That his other cases cannot be included under this, or under either of the other two groups—subclavian mur- mur, or systolic lung murmur in the portion of lung overlying the heart, caused by currents of air in connection with the movement of the latter—he concludes for reasons which he gives at length. In all the cases the murmur had the unmistakable character of a vascular, particularly an arterial one, exactly like the uterine murmur, or that * The late Dr. G. H. Barlow used to teach that a very common and very early pre- monitory sign of phthisis was a soft systolic murmur heard under the clavicles (cf. Ins * Manual of the Practice of Medicine,’ 2nd ed., p. 294).—A. B. S.