3S REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. tlie animals inoculated by tbe abdomen. But as this occurred in guinea- pigs even after a simple injection, the experimenters injected dogs, in which simple injection has no such effect, with the same fluid, and with the same tuberculous result; and they conclude that the degenerated and cheesy pus is the origin of the infection. Bernhardt (£ Beitrage zur Lehre von der specifischen Natur der Tuber- culose und ihrer Uebertragbarkeit von Menschen ‘Deutsches Arch. f. klin. Med., v. s. ^68) concludes, from a large number of experiments made on rabbits and guinea-pigs: 1. By the introduction of cheesy matter taken from the bodies of phthisical patients, under the skin, and especially into the peritoneal cavity .of rabbits, cheesy processes as well as general tuberculosis may be excited with tolerable certainty. 2. By the inoculation in rabbits of indifferent foreign bodies, miliary eruptions were produced only in exceptional cases, and to a very small extent. 3- The same result was found in guinea-pigs ; but it must not be for- gotten that in them tuberculosis may occur even after a simple punctured wound. 4. Inoculation of cheesy matter taken from rabbits in which tuber- culosis had been artificially produced, in Experiment 1, and from the deposits at the point of inoculation, caused, with tolerable certainty, a fresh outbreak of general tuberculosis. 5. Disinfection of the inoculable substances from tubercular men, as well as from tuberculous rabbits, weakened in a high degree the activity of the infection; so that after a time of varying length a limited eruption was produced, causing a very marked difference between the inoculations practised under (1) and (4). As to whether it may be possible to follow out this last sugges- tion, and, by means of the inhalation of disinfecting substances, to lessen the active infection of the cheesy masses in phthisical lungs, the author promises further experiments and more accurate clinical observations. Aufrecht (“ Ueber die Structur des Miliartuberkels,” ‘ Centralbl.,’ 1869, p. 433), following up Chauveau’s experiments, fed twenty-two rabbits on portions of human tissue. Of four fed on pieces of lung in a state of cheesy broncho-pneumonia, one died after three days; the stomach presented two small tumours, with haemorrhage into the serous membrane covering them, and over the left half of the diaphragm, the left abdominal walls, &c., were numerous small, whitish knots, here and there disposed in the form of a ring. Dnder the microscope the latter was found to consist of a tolerably broad zone composed of small cells, and a cloudy centre containing numerous opaque granules and oil-cells; the centre separated from the zone by a clear, streaked ring ; the granu- lar centre Aufrecht considers to be the polygonal lining of a lymphatic, which has undergone the fatty change, and the surrounding zone of cells to be tubercle. ITe shows that the same structure and relation to lym- phatics is found in the peritoneal tubercle in man ; and he concludes (1) that miliary tuberculosis (ot the peritoneum) is anatomically a peri- lymphangeitis occurring in the form of small aggregations ot cells ; and