TETANUS. 237 malleolus the thickness of the right tibia was io centimetres, and that of the left 13. It is remarkable that the articular surface of the tibia was diminished in extent, contrary to what takes place in rickets, where shortening of the shaft of the bone is accompanied with expansion of the articular ends. Langenbeck arrives at the following conclusions : 1. Morbid changes which give rise to irritation and hyperannia of the osseous tissue lead, as long as the growth of bone continues, to an increase both in the length and in the thickness of bones. 2. The increase of growth in length affects especially the diseased bones, but may also occur in a healthy bone of the same limb. 3. A bone abnormally lengthened re- tains its dimensions through life ; there is no subsequent diminution, of length by absorption, even when the disease which led to the excessive growth has long ceased. Use of bromide of potassium in tetanus.—In a case of tetanus follow- ing on a burn, Dr. Bruchon ordered a drachm of the bromide to be given in divided doses during the day, and increased the quantity fifteen grains every two days till it reached two drachms, after which the disease abated, The patient, an adult male, recovered. (‘ Gazette des Ilopitaux,’ No. 61, 1869, and ‘ Edin. Med. Journ.’) Mr. Eobert Brown (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ May, 1869, p. 993) details a case in which recovery followed the use of bromide of potassium. A lad, set. 12, had well-marked symptoms of tetanus come on about a fortnight after suppuration round a finger-nail. Twenty grains of the bromide were ordered every two hours, and then every hour. In nine days the dose was again given every two hours. In thirteen days he was considered to have recovered. Use of Calabar bean.—Dr. A. J. Macarthur reports a case in the ‘Edin. Med. Journal,’ May, 1869, p. 989. A man, aet. 24, received a punctured wound in the right hand. On the sixteenth day symptoms of tetanus supervened. The treatment was not commenced for two more days; then an eighth of a grain of the extract was given every hour. In two days the dose was increased to one sixth ; the next day to one quarter; the next to half a grain every hour and a half. Eight days after commencing treatment the supply fell short and he became very ill; he was thought to be dying. A dose, however, recovered him somewhat, and half a grain was given every two hours. Eour days later he was so much better that the dose was diminished ; in five days more he was convalescent. Mr. Holthouse relates two cases of traumatic tetanus in which the bean extract was given; on one occasion as much as four grains and a half in a single dose. The first patient died on the fourth day, not- withstanding that “ grip doses” had been given from the first every 10U !■’ ■ ^ie secouc^ recovered. Mr. Ilolthouse considered that a suc- cessful issue could scarcely be expected unless the peripheral nerves could bp acted on simultaneously with the cord. The bean diminished the excitability ol the latter and of the motor nerves, but did not affect the sensory nerves. Possibly opium might supply this necessary in- fluence. (• Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ ii, 94-103.)