137 PLEURISY. in males of sixteen and forty years and “middle age, wlio were dis- charged well in the course of a month or six weeks; one m a female rot. 43, with granular kidneys and forty ounces of pus in the left pleural cavity, who died suddenly ; and a fifth case, in a male, on whom para- centesis was performed eight times. Sutton’s remarks on these cases point to the following conclusions :—i. rlhat pleuritic effusion oi recen origin may disappear when treated by absolute rest, without tapping. 2. That tapping is urgently demanded when the effusion consists of pus. 3. That the difficult and frequent respiration by which the pre- sence of pus is accompanied, and not the quantity of the fluid, is the best guide for tapping. 4. There is strong evidence that the pleura may be tapped and air admitted without any ill effects following. In reference to the case of a boy, set. 7 (‘Lancet, 1870, i, 8), whose chest was tapped on the twelfth day of au attack of. acute pleurisy, Murchison remarks that the main object of the operation is the resto- ration of the position of the heart, as there is far greater danger, espe- cially when the pleuritic effusion is on the left side, of the patient dying from sudden syncope than from asphyxia. Paley (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1870, i, 6) publishes two cases ; one in a girl 10J, who had double pneumonia and pleurisy of right side after measles, and was tapped twice in ten days, a drainage tube being kept in for six days, and the wound not closing completely for four months ; the second in a boy of the same age, who had been twice tapped for pleurisy of the left side. After the third operation a tube was kept in for fourteen days. In both cases there was, later, very little falling in of the chest-walls, with good resonance and respiratory murmur. Jacobi (‘Deut. Archiv,’ vii, 447) gives the following:—A woman, ret. 39, was attacked with pleurisy in the right side in the fifth month of her third pregnaucy, and was tapped, eighty-four ounces of good pus being evacuated, and a catheter being used to empty the cavity for some time afterwards. The entrance of air did no harm, and the wound was allowed to close two months after the operation. Live days, however, after delivery of a child, there was a recurrence of pain in the right side and dyspnoea, with redness and tenderness in the neighbourhood of the wound. The abscess was opened, a catheter again employed, and, as the secretion had been very copious and fetid, probably from some contamination in connection with the puerperal state, the cavity was rinsed out, at first twice daily, with warm water. The secretion became speedily less in quantity and normal, then ceased almost altogether, and the wouud was allowed once more to close. Seven and a half months after the operation the only noticeable fact seems to have been deficient rising of the thoracic walls on inspiration on the right side as compared with the left. Vogel Q Berl. klin. Woch.,’ 1869, 489) considers puncture better than incision in some cases. Preferring a method by which after simple puncture the pleural cavity may be w7ell and sufficiently cleaned out, and thus all evil consequences from retention of the pus formed for a longer or shorter time avoided, he describes the procedure adopted by Kussmaul for this purpose. In the majority of cases, especially in young patients, the simple introduction of an elastic