INJURIES DURING LABOUR. 411 in a prison in that town where the women were fed on horseflesh ; hut it was admitted that other causes might have influence. Dr. Ender relates (‘ Monatssch. f. Geburtsk.,’ 1869) a case of spondylolisthesis. A woman, £et. 31, was admitted at the Maternity at Trier. She looked well-formed, exciting no suspicion that she had pelvic contraction. She had, however, ov^er-hanging belly in an extreme degree. The promontory could be reached by two fingers. The external conjugate measured y$o"-, and m taking this the peculiar abnormality was discovered, for the sacrum projected strongly back- wards, whilst, immediately over it, the lumbar vertebrae were pushed forwards. The woman said that two years before she had, whilst lifting a heavy basket, suddenly felt severe pain in the sacrum, which gradually subsided in fourteen days. The basket is the “ hotte,” or in German “ traylcorhIn using it the person stoops as much as possible, so as to get the shoulder-straps over the shoulders, and then has to rise with the burden. During this act probably the vertebrae slipped forward at a spot previously diseased. Labour at term was waited for. The cervix dilated slowly ; the head was felt with difficulty. After fifty hours the forceps was applied with great difficulty; strong traction was used, but no advance followed. The head was then perforated, and the child extracted. Eever set in after a few days. On the twenty-third day, on making an examination, suddenly a stream of pus escaped from the vagina. The patient died of irritative fever on the thirtieth day. There was found complete spondylolisthesis. The last lumbar vertebra had slipped down from the upper sacral vertebra about 3" forwards; the lumbar spinal column was a little rotated, so that the right portion of the projecting anterior edge of the fifth lumbar vertebra was lower than the left. The lumbar vertebra? projected strongly into the pelvic cavity. No intervertebral cartilage could be discovered. The occasion had obviously been a caries of the bones. Injuries during Labour.—Rupture and Laceration. Rupture of the Uterus.—A remarkable case is reported (‘ Obstetr. Trans.,’ 1869) by Dr. Greenhalgh, possibly, as suggested interrogatively, erroneous in diagnosis. A woman, seven months gone, while lifting a heavy weight, was suddenly seized with agonising pain in the belly, shock and collapse following. Peritonitis and signs of blood-infection. The membranes were ruptured, stinking liquor amnii flowed, fol- lowed by a fcetus much decomposed. The vomiting then ceased and recovery ensued. Mr. Mitchell (op. cit.) relates the following: A pluripara, set. 42, had mollities ossium. When seven months gone, she suffered severe terror and shock from lightning ; instantly felt agonising pain in pelvis, tainted; hmmorrhage set in. On examination a rent was found in the uterus, 3" above the os. The foetus was extracted footling, dead. As the knee of the child lay in juxtaposition with the rent, it is probable that the uterus was torn by the violent contraction upon this projecting point, which occurred under the influence of fright. She died next day.