t 1 Brit. & For. Med.-Cliir. Review,’ xlvi, p. 467. REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. BY THOMAS STEVENSON, M.D. Influence of marshes on the duration of human life.—M. J. M. Fons- sagrives,* of Montpellier, has studied this question by the aid of the numerical method, excluding with great care all disturbing influences which might invalidate his deductions, and arrives at valuable conclu- sions. He shows that whilst, in France as a whole, the mean age at death is 3575 years, in the marshes of Herault, on the Mediterranean coast, it is twenty-three years and a fraction, whilst in the neighbouring non-marshy localities it is 40-8 years. In the marshes of Mireval, Vic, Vendres, Vias, and Manguis, the co-efficient of mortality between the ages of one and ten years of age is o-jo8, in the neighbouring districts 0-260, and in France generally o-3i2. The mortality of children between the above ages is therefore in those marshes six tenths above the general average of France, and the same excess of mortality is shown to obtain between the ages of o and 40. The statistics of other places are brought forward to support the same general conclu- sion, that the mortality in marshy districts is largely in excess of the average mortality of a country. It is well known that the colder periods of the year are more fatal to children than the warmer; but M. Fonssagrives brings forward the researches of M. Lombard, of Geneva, to prove that the converse holds good for marshy districts, probably on account of the greater prevalence of grave abdominal lesions. Still-born children are shown to be more frequent in marshes than in the country generally, and the fecundity of the female is said to be diminished. Of this, however, there appears to be some doubt. We may also mention that the 'physique of residents in marshes is said by M. Fonssagrives to be inferior; this is shown by the mean height of the conscripts being 57 millimetres (2^ inches) less than in France as a whole. Epidemiology.—Dr. Gavin Milroy f contributes an able paper, entitled “Epidemiological Conclusions and Suggestions,” the main point of which may be gathered from the concluding words :—“ Have epidemic diseases been kept out from countries by any external means of protec- tion or defence?” Dr. Milroy thinks not. This paper, which is well worthy of perusal by those interested in the subject, is unsuited for abstraction. It contains many striking, and not well-known, facts bearing upon the subject of the essay. * ‘Ann. d’Hyg.,’ xxxii, 61.