REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 454- rliage into tlie substance of the lungs in four cases. In ten cases in which the state of the blood is noted, it was found to he fluid. Ecchy- inoses were never wanting. In thirteen cases they accompanied the whole course of the greater vessels; eight times they were met with in the pericardium; seven times in the mediastinum ; five times in the pleura and in the subcutaneous adipose tissues ; four times in the in- termuscular connective tissue, in the pelvis of the kidney, and in the lung tissue; thrice in the endocardium, the commencement of the thoracic aorta, and in the mesentery; and twice in the subperitoneal adipose tissue. A striking and interesting case of phosphorus poisoning is contri- buted by Concato.* The patient died eleven days after swallowing, with a suicidal intent, the ends of some matches tipped with phos- phorus. Pain was speedily felt in the neck and oesophagus, gastric symptoms supervening at a later period. There was no elevation of the temperature of the body nor quickening of the pulse, till shortly before death, when the pulse rose to 146 beats per minute. A peculiar odour was observed in the breath, perspiration, and urine. The stools were con- stantly of a green colour, notwithstanding that there was considerable jaundice. On section, besides the appearances usually met with in such cases, destruction of mucous membrane of the oesophagus, of the ante- rior part of the pharynx, and of the epiglottis, was found, whilst that of the stomach and duodenum was intact. There was complete integrity and emptiness of the ductus chloledochus, of the gall-bladder, and of the bile passages; increase in size of Brunner’s glands and of the mesenteric glands; and increase in the number of the white blood- corpuscles, and a diminution in the size and change in the form of the red corpuscles. These changes in the blood-corpuscles were likewise observed during the life of the patient. Crystals of hsematoidine were found in the liver ; fat-cells and crystals of margarine in the spleen, which was very pale. The temperature of the body was remarkable. Three quarters of an hour after death it was 104-9° J after four and a quarter hours, 97-7°; in seven and a half hours, 96-5°; and in eleven hours, 86°; in a room, the temperature of which was 54-5°. The sub- stance which Piazza termed cholic acid was detected in the urine taken from the bladder after death. Dr. Hoffmann,t of Berlin, gives a useful paper on the anatomical changes undergone by the mucous membrane of the stomach after poi- soning by various substances, from which we extract the following on the changes that are found to have taken place after poisoning by phosphorus. (1) The direct local lesions which the gastric mucous membrane under- goes increase in intensity with the amount of oxidation which the phos- phorus has undergone. With pure phosphorus they may be exceedingly slight or altogether absent, whilst when the phosphorus has been in its highest state of oxidation (phosphoric acid), the lesions approximate very closely to those produced by the commoner mineral acids. (2) Eor the production of changes in the glandular apparatus of the sto- * < Rivista Chir. di Bologna/ 1868, p. 257 ; ‘Virchow and Hirsch’s Jahresber./ 1868, p. .I11. f 1 Horn’s Vierteljahrsschr./ xn, p. 193.