184 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Steven (‘ Glasg. Med. Journ.,’ 1869, 257) contributes a case of pyelitis and pyonephrosis in a man, set. 37, who had suffered from frequent desire to micturate, pain during and after the act, at the end of the penis and in the loius, with gradual emaciation and weakness. The urine deposited pus-corpuscles. Later there appeared a tumour on the right side of the abdomen, painful, elastic, and fluctuating. After death from exhaustion and subacute peritonitis the right side of the abdomen was found occupied by a large sac—the dilated kidney—extending from the right hypochondrium into the pelvic cavity. Some traces of the kidney-substance could be made out near the origin of the ureter. There was no sign of calculus. The left kidney was apparently healthy. McDowall (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ xv, 1093) publishes a case of tuber- culosis (scrofulous pyelitis) of both kidneys, with tubercular disease of the lungs, occurring in an insane patient. The only symptom till shortly before death was a single attack of hasmaturia. The portion of the glands not diseased had become hypertrophied. Thudichum (‘Rep. Off. Privy Council for 1868,’ p. 157) gives a short account of intermittent haematuria, inclining to the view held by Green- how, Pavy, Murchison, &c., against other authors, that it is probably not malarious. It is not periodical, and requires, apparently, a fresh expo- sure to cold or damp to excite each separate paroxysm. No post-mortem examination has been made of any case. From chemical and spectro- scopic analysis he concludes that the urine in this affection contains hsemato-crystallin and haematin in solution, and also the latter as an amorphous sediment. Tbat some acid, probably acetic, is produced in the kidney (?), which makes the ui’ine abnormally acid and dissolves haematin. The presence of acetic acid or oxalate of lime is no great anomaly. He suggests the word Cruenturesis instead of haematuria or haematinuria. Duckworth (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869, i, 562) gives the case of a man, aet. 30, of a generally relaxed atonic habit, in whom haematuria occurred with a certain periodicity, as a consequence of oxaluria. There were no symptoms of calculus, and the urinary disturbance disappeared under the use of nitro-muriatic acid. Schiff (‘New York Med. Journ.,’ March, 1869) and Heslop (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869, i, 541) each give a case in which both kidneys were movable, in two women of 26 and 38 years. Fleming (ib., ii, 211) gives two cases of movable right kidney, both also in women; while G-outier (‘ Union Med.,’ viii, 468) records the case of a woman, set. 29, in whom there was irreducible dislocation, with great pain, of the right kidney, which appeared as a tumour in the hypochondrium to the right of the umbilicus. Heller (‘ Deut. Arch.,’ vi, 276), who had already given (ib., v, 367) a case of hydronephrosis of one half of the kidney, with double pelvis and ureter, in which there was congenital obstruction of one of the latter, contributes another of the same kind. It occurred in a man of weak intellect, set. 69, in whom the right kidney presented, at its upper half, a sac filled with clear serum. Bruckner (‘Yirch. Arch.,’ xlvi, 503) records two cases of congenital hydronephrosis in children born of the same mother; and Virchow, in