1UIEUMATISM. 97 jRheumatism. Gull and Sutton (‘ Med. Cliir. Trans.,’ lii, p. 43) bring forward a few more cases of rheumatic fever treated by mint water or, in other words, by absolute rest and regular diet, unaided by medicine. e report is based on twenty-five cases of the disease, which were care- fully watched. Of these eighteen were females and seven were men ; their mean age was nineteen years; all were suffering from their first attack. On the average the temperature was 102 during tie acute stage, and the total duration of the acute symptoms seventeen days. After inquiring into the duration of the disease, and the liability 0 heart affection, under the employment of different drugs, they hold that the good results attributed to the medicine given are really due to the natural course of the disease; they endeavour to show that when the heart is attacked, this takes place during the first week and very rarely afterwards; and they conclude that treatment should be limited to the following means-. careful regimen; mechanical and physiological rest; regulation of temperature ; moderating the excessive skin activity by sponging; allaying of pain, sometimes by opiates ; sustaining nerve force, when necessary, by small doses of alcohol; in fine, a physiolo- gical state of mean rest of the nervous, circulatory, muscular, and digestive symptoms. Dickinson (‘Lancet,’ 1869, i, 116) gives tables of 161 cases admitted into St. George’s Hospital suffering from rheumatic fever, but without any heart affection at the time of admission. They are arranged according to treatment, chiefly with a view to ascertain the frequency of the heart complication under the different methods employed. This complication did arise in 36; in 12 during the first week ; in 9 during the second; in 5 during the third ; in 3 during the fourth; in 7 the date of the murmur was uncertain. Alkaline treatment, i. e., an ounce to an ounce and a half daily of the carbonate and vegetable salts of potash and soda, was employed in 48 cases, 3 were treated with salts of ammonia, and no in various ways, by venesection, mercury, nitre, guaiacum, opium, and small doses of the alkalies. In the 48 cases affection of the heart was recorded only once; among the 3 treated with ammonia none; among the no variously treated 35. Thus the alkaline treatment gives a proportion of 1 in 48 ; the non-alkaline of more than 1 in 4. The duration of the disease was shorter under the former than under the latter plan of treatment. Dickinson gives the salts in doses of three or four scruples every two or three hours at the commencement of the affection, lessening the dose, “ as the acid tendencies of the patient diminish.” Reynolds (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869, ii, 649), after treating eight cases with Tinct. Ferri Perchlor., calls attention to the following points, though the number of cases is too small to allow of any general deduc- tion : (1) The relief of the joint affection was definite, uniform, and speedy. In four cases it was removed in one day ; the longest period of suffering after the commencement of the treatment was five days, and the mean duration of the joint affection two days. (2) Excluding 7