HEPORT ON SURGERY. 20-1 hours afterwards. The ligature was a fine one, firm and even in struc- ture ; and before using it, it was dipped into the ordinary weak solu- tion to render it pliable. The knot was carefully tied. The next morning the patient suddenly became comatose and paralysed on one side, lie died on the fourth day. On examining the carotid artery, Mr. Spence was surprised to find that there was no appearance of con- striction, in fact, at first sight, there was nothing to be recognised as the ligature. Further examination, however, showed that what at first seemed some lymph and tissue was really the softened catgut. The circle of the ligature had given way on the side nearest the trachea. The knot was quite sound and firm. The texture of the catgut under a lens was recognisable, but gelatinous and pulpy. The softened catgut had probably yielded while the patient was vomiting. (‘ Lancet,’ June 5, 1869.) Carbolic acid treatment of wounds.—In the ‘ (Esterreich. Zeitschrift fiir pract. Heilkunde,’ Nos. 30, 31, 32, and 33 for 1869, J. Englisch gives the results of observations on the use of carbolic acid, made on more than 400 patients in Dillet’s practice. Not only were the bene- ficial results of this treatment manifested in incised and contused wounds by diminution of suppuration, limitation of sloughing, and rapid cicatrisation; but also in cases of complicated fracture, where under other circumstances amputation would have been called for. In cases of subaponeurotic inflammation of the hand, even where the sheaths of the tendons were destroyed, the use of carbolic acid, by reducing the extent of the cicatrices, prevented contraction. Good effects were also observed in periadenitis; but the results were less satisfactory in cases of glandular disease of constitutional origin. The same remark is applicable to diseases of the bones. Where the periosteum alone was diseased, a good result might be expected, but in cases of osteitis and osteomyelitis from constitutional dyscrasia the carbolic acid did not exert any remarkable influence. Successful results were observed in cases of suppuration of the joints. In operative wounds, the carbolic acid exercised a beneficial influence only when it was rapidly absorbed and appeared in the urine. In five cases of hydrocele treated by the radical section, rapid contraction of the serous sac was observed. Pyemia occurred in three cases only, erysipelas very rarely, and albu- minuria was never observed to follow the use of carbolic acid. Acupressure.—In the ‘ Brit. Med. Journal,’ June 19, 1869, Mr. J. F. West records his experience of acupressure in nineteen cases. In seventeen there was no haemorrhage, the needles being removed at the end of from thirty-six to seventy-two hours. In two of the cases hemorrhage did occur. In one case, in a lad (et. 13) whose thigh had been amputated, hemorrhage occurred when the needle was withdrawn from the femoral, but was controlled by digital pressure for a few minutes. Next day the hemorrhage recurred, but was controlled finally by digital pressure for five hours. The other case was also that of a lad (et. 17) whose leg was amputated. The needles were removed after 120 hours. Hemorrhage occurred on the 5th, 20th, 21st, 22nd,