Ill HEMIPLEGIA. i. That a lesion in the upper part of the cervical region of the spinal cord can produce amesthesia in the lower or in the upper limbs, according to its location, and that, consequently, the conductors ol sen- sitive impressions for the lower extremities do not pass through the same parts of the spinal nervous centre as those ot the upper ex- tremities ; 2. That a lesion in the same region can produce paralysis of the voluntary movement in the lower limbs alone, or in the upper limbs alone; and that consequently the conductors serving to that kind of movement for the upper extremities do not pass through the same part of that nervous centre as those going to the lower extremities. He analyses a large number of cases in which there was lesion ot the cervical spine, and shows what very different features the affection may present, though certain characteristics are always to be found ; and how these differences are explained by the seat and extent of the lesion. In his third lecture (ib., 1869, ii, 429) he gives the characteristic symptoms of the affection, which he proposes to call Hemiparaplegia, due also to a lesion in one of the lateral halves of the dorsal region of the cord. He gives four cases of it, the first published by Monod (‘Bull, de la Societe Anatomique,’ 1832, p. 79), and by Breschet (‘ Arch. Glen, de Med.,’ 1831, xxv, p. 101), which was caused by haemorrhage chiefly into the right lateral half of the cord in the dorsal region; a second by Charcot (‘ Arch, de Physiol. Norm, et Path.,’ March, 1869, p. 291), in which a tumour pressed chiefly on the left side of the cord in the same region; a third by Ore (‘ Mem. de la Soc. de Biol.,’ 1853, v, 303), in which a tumour compressed the right half in the middle dorsal region; and lastly a case which he himself saw in 1866, where there was probably haemorrhage into the cord. He concludes by stating that when this affection is complete, it is characterised by the following features:—(«) on the side of the lesion in the spinal cord: 1. Paralysis of voluntary movement. 2. Loss of the muscular sense. 3. Hyperaesthesia to touch, to pain, to tickling, and to heat and cold. 4. Perfect knowledge of the place on which an impression is made. 5. Yasomotor paralysis and elevation of temperature. 6. Existence of anaesthesia in some parts, or in a small zone, between the upper limits of hyperaesthesia, and the healthy parts of the body. (b) On the side opposite to that of the lesion : 1. Conservation of voluntary movement and muscular sense. 2. Anaesthesia to touch, &c. (cf. a, 3.) Hitzig (‘Virch. Archiv,’ xlviii, 345), after referring to Charcot’s obser- vations on the occurrence of an affection of the joints in severe hemi- plegia, in which he gave four cases with their autopsies, three showing softening of the brain as the starting-point of the hemiplegia, the fourth an abscess in one temporal lobe', publishes seven cases observed by himself between February and July, 1869. In all there was an incomplete dislocation of the head of the humerus, with vague pains in the arm increased by movement or pressure. The paralysed arm was generally swollen, warmer and moister than the other. The pains in the joints occurred from six to eight weeks after the hemiplegic attack; and it seemed as if the joint irritation had some connection with the patient’s leaving his bed. After referring to the views of