172 KEF OUT ON PKACTICAL MEDICINE. from 1852 to 1868, when the general condition was much better, and the constipation much less, the latter being overcome by Pullna salts, calomel, or scannnony, given at the time, and causing later, often next day, the expulsion of membranous mucous matters. The author takes the opportunity of collecting cases recorded by other writers. He lays great stress upon the employment of purgatives, especially the waters of Pullna, llomburg, Nauheim, Niederbrunn, Kissingen, &c. He concludes that the affection should be referred to a neurosis of the intestines, occurring chiefly in hypochondriac and hysterical individuals. De Courval (ib., 481) gives a similar case in a woman, jet. 35, who after the use of injections got rid of a cylindrical membranous' body, eight centimetres long, repeating the folds of the large intestine. The injections contained nitrate of silver and bromide of potassium. He considers the internal use of chlorate of potash, in doses of five grammes a day, very efficacious. Habershon (‘Lancet,’ 1869, i, 837) contributes a case of chronic diarrhoea with fatal haemorrhage in a lady who had resided for several years in India. The autopsy showed that the walls of the intestine were extremely thin and semitransparent; both muscular and mucous coats were greatly wasted. There was simple atrophy of the villi, but neither ulcer nor cicatrix throughout the intestinal tract. Aufrecht (‘Berl. klin. Woch.,’ 1869, 313) gives the case and autopsy of a female, eet. 42, who died of diarrhoea. He found twelve ulcers in the ileum, all of which alike occupied the whole breadth of the intes- tine, and varied in length from 2" to 5". The portions of mucous mem- brane between them were in many places not longer than the ulcers themselves. The margins of the latter were completely smooth, slightly swollen and injected, with a pale base, showing here and there several radiating lines slightly raised above the surface. "Within several of these ulcers were small breaches of surface (Defecte), a little larger than lentil seeds, penetrating almost to the muscular tissue, with the appear- ance of having been punched out; their base also was pale and smooth. The mucous membrane of the whole of the large and small intestine, as well as the base of the ulcers in several places, showed well-marked amy- loid reaction, as also did the Malpighian bodies of the spleen, kidneys, &c. In the intestinal villi and the mucous membrane in the neighbourhood of the ulcers were corpuscles resembling corpora amylacea, only larger. There was an old syphilitic nodule of connective tissue in the liver. He holds that the degeneration of the vessels, and, perhaps, also the deposit of the corpora amylacea in the mucous membrane, had led to a death, from innutrition, of the latter, and the consequent development of ulcers• Tschudnowsky (ib., 205) publishes at enormous length the case of a man set. 23, in whom a typhoid ulcer led to perforation of the intestine and entrance of gas into the abdominal cavity. On auscultation of the abdomen over the collection of gas he heard a well-marked amphoric murmur, synchronous with the respiration, stronger and longer with inspiration, shorter and weaker with expiration. His explanation is that the murmur was caused by the entrance and exit of gas through