REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 90 live cases. They consisted of dilatation of the arteries, followed hy a degeneration of the nervous matter at certain points external to them, which occasions destruction and excavation of tissue around the vessels, thus producing cavities often large enough to be seen without the microscope, and containing blood-vessels, extravasated blood, pigment-granules, and the products of decayed nerve-substance, the contents ultimately becoming absorbed and leaving simple vacuities. These changes were found constantly with arteries, most developed in the medulla oblongata and pons, frequently in connection with folds of pia mater, and often laterally symmetrical. Spots uniformly affected in all the cases were the olivary bodies, the vicinity of the median plane of the medulla, the grey matter of the fourth ventricle, and in particu- lar a spot just external to the origin of the facial nerve. In four out of the five another spot was found near the front of the pons, in the median line. The optic thalami and corpora striata were slightly in- volved ; the septum, the white matter of the convolutions, and the corpus dentatum displayed the alterations in a remarkable manner. The white matter alone, with the exception of the grey matter in the floor of the fourth ventricle and of the spinal cord, was especially affected. The cervical and semilunar ganglia were normal; epithelial accumulation in the liver and kidneys was the only visceral change constantly found. He concludes that diabetes is essentially a disease of the nervous system. Oppolzer, “ Zur Pathologie und Therapie des Diabetes Mellitus,” 1 Allg. Wien. Med. Zeitung,’ 1869, Nos. 50 and 51 ; Durand-Fardel, “ Des indications therapeutiques dans le Diabote,” ‘ Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ 1869, No. 17; Donkin, “ On a purely Milk Diet in the Treatment of Diabetes Mellitus,” &c., ‘ Lancet,’ 1869, ii, 538, &c., and 1870, i, 578, &c.; Thorne, “Treatment of Diabetes by Milk,” ib., 1870, i, 285; Bourdon, “ Polyurie simple avec Anthrax,” ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1869, 297. Gout. Potton (‘Lyon Med.,’ii, 436) in a long treatise enlarges upon the very great advantages gained by gouty patients by the use of the baths of Baden in Switzerland. Their action is said to be tonic, resolvent, at the same time sedative rather than irritating. ITe lays great stress upon the certain results obtained in all complicated cases of gout, especially of the rheumatic character, in which Vichy water, useful in the simple affection, is said to fail entirely. Palck (‘ Deut. Klin.,’ 1869, No. 29) has seen very good results follow from the employment of carbonate of lithia, given in doses of one or more decigrammes every two hours. t . Pereol (“ Des rapports dela Gfoutte et du Khumatisme; L Union Med.,’ 1869, vii, 827), gives two very complete. autopsies of gouty patients, with minute descriptions of the affected joints. . Simon (‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1869, 199), communicates a case of visceral <mut (?) in a man, art. 47, who died of pleurisy with effusion on the right side, but of whose body no examination was made. “Treatment of Acute Gout at various London Hospitals,” ‘Lancet,’ 1869, ii, 437; Moxon, “ Gout in the Stomach,” * Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1870, ii, 473.