395 DISEASES COMPLICATING P1IEGNANCY. some women so small and so few that they must be sought for with great care. The skin must be stretched across the direction of the cracks, for when at rest the skin recovers itself and conceals them. In one case of premature labour at six months, in one at seven months, in four cases of labour at term of one child, and in two of three labours, there was no trace of cracks upon the abdomen or thighs. On the other hand, cracks on the thighs only, without anterior pregnancy or disease, were met with four times. Strohl concludes that there are but two signs possessing an almost absolute value when they exist, and are well marked, whilst their absence does not exclude an anterior delivery. These are, the lacerations of the os uteri, and the cracks in the abdomen. (‘Annales d’Hygiene Publique,’ July, 1870.) Dr. Horton relates a case of labour at term, in which the hymen was found entire, and obstructing the passage of the head. It was incised. (‘New York Med. Journ.,’ 1870.) Dr. Wallich contributes the following observation to our knowledge of the duration of pregnancy. A woman, jet. 37, who had borne 5 chil- dren, menstruated for the last time on the 30th and 31st July ; fruitful intercourse took place on the 4th August, delivery on the 30th April, that is, 269 after the conception. In the succeeding pregnancy the period of gestation was also 269 days. The children were healthy and mature, and the dates were precise. A third pregnancy also for 269 days presumably, but the date was not so rigorously fixed. (‘ Arch, f. Glynak.,’ 1870.) Dr. Ahlfeld demonstrated to the Leipzig Obstetrical Society the possibility of measuring the foetus in utero. The length was estimated by taking the length of the ovum axis by Baudelocque’s pelvimeter, one knob of the instrument being introduced by the vagina, the other carried externally to the highest point of the foetus. (‘ Arch. f. G-yna- kol.,’ 1870.). The vomiting of pregnancy. J. K. Spender relates (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869) three cases illustrating the usefulness of the hypodermic injection of morphia in this condition. Diseases complicating Pregnancy. Dr. Paulicki observed (£ Mon. f. Geburtsk.,’ 1869) in the hospital at Hamburg, three cases of variola hoemorrhagica in pregnant women. Abortion set in with violent symptoms, fever increased, and death followed. In one case the woman was four months gone. Blooding followed expulsion of the ovum. Autopsy revealed a small show of petechise on the breast and legs ; and under the pulmonary pleurm numerous punctate ecchymoses. Haemorrhagic spots were found in the mucous membrane of the trachea and bronchi, and in many other tissues throughout the body. Embolism.—Dr. Playfair relates a case rendered especially valuable by the post-mortem history (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869). J. W—, set. 21, six months pregnant, was operated upon for fissure in the rectum on the 5th December. On the 13th the pulse and temperature rose, and re-