NERVOUS SYSTEM. 21 will be found in Humphry and Turner’s ‘Journal of Anatomy,’ iv, 1 Henle and F. Merkel,* * * § Golgi,+ Both,;}; and Gerlach§ give full de- scriptions of the so-called connective tissue on neuroglia ol the ner- vous system. Bepine|| describes the connective tissue of the perivas- cular canals of the brain as being traversed by a delicate filamentous tlSSU6. Dr. Gf. Schwalbe^" describes the arachnoid space around the brain as a lymphatic space, and considers it to be connected with the choroidal space of the eye, the space containing the perilymph of the ear, and the lymphatic plexus of the Schneiderian mucous membrane. These obser- vations are in favour of the view that the serous sacs are only great dilatations of the lymphatic system. Weisbach,** in experiments made to determine the amount of water in the brain in relation to age, sex, and disease, found that as age advances the amount of water steadily increases in the brain. On the other hand, the commissures and the medulla oblongata have the largest quantity in youth. The brain of the female, corresponding to its smaller weight, contains also less water than that of the male. Banke, in the * Centralblatt’ for 1868, published observations showing that in tetanus the reaction of nerve substance changed from alkaline to acid, which was in opposition to the previously expressed results obtained by Heidenhain. In a paper in the same journal,ft Banke gives the result of further investigations on the same subject, of which the following are the principal results :—1. The white substance (nerves) of the central organs is decidedly acid after tetanus. 2. The acidification appears to be more marked in the grey than in the white substance in warm-blooded animals, but the difference is not so well marked in frogs. 3. Thick nerve-roots excised from the spinal canal or cranium on seve- ral occasions, also gave a distinctly acid reaction. 4. The reaction of the nerve-trunks was less marked, partly on account of the blood they contain, which is always greatly increased in tetanus, and partly on account of the presence of connective tissue, which is always alkaline. Schiff Xt has performed some very delicate experiments, apparently demonstrating that there is a disengagement of heat in the nerve and nervous centres when sensory impressions were made upon them. The elevation of temperature was rendered evident by very minute thermo- electric piles constructed of bismuth and copper, and the experiments were chiefly performed on fowls. Hirsch §§ contributes a paper on Donders’ experiments to determine the velocity of the psychical function of the brain, in which he points * Henle and Pfeuffer’s ‘ Zeitsch.,’ xxxiv, p. 49. f ‘Rendiconti d. It. Istitut Lomb.,1 iii. + * Virchow’s Archiv,’ xlvi. § Strieker’s ‘ Handbuch der Lehre von den Geweben,’ cap. xxx. II ‘Archives de Physiologie,’ No. 3, 1869. ‘Centralblatt,’ 1869, p. 464 ** ‘Wien. Med. Jahrb.,’ xvi, p. 46. ft No. 7, 1869. ++ Brown-Sequard, ‘ Archives de Physiologie,’ 1870. §9 ‘Archives des Sciences,’ April 15,' 1869, and ‘ Student,’ 1869, P- 362.