19 ABSORPTION. mm. in length, with abrupt endings. When contracted they form the spiral fibres of tendons of Henle. Boehm* * * § shows that pores exist on the arachnoid surface, of the dura mater, which open into a lymphatic system, that is again in communi- cation with the veins on the outer surface of the membrane. That certain organs in fishes and reptiles belonging to the lymphatic system possess contractile power exercised rhythmically has long been known, but Heller f has shown that the lymphatics of the mesentery of the guinea-pig also contract rhythmically, and in an order and mode that is quite independent of either the respiratory movements or the cardiac pulsations; in one instance the lymphatic pulse was distinctly counted, and found to be io per minute, whilst the respirations were 40 and the cardiac beats 120 in the same space of time. An explana- tion is thus afforded of the movement of the lymph, and to some extent also of the process of absorption. The time occupied by absorption, circulation, and secretion combined has been very clearly demonstrated by Proff. Macnamara and Haugh- ton.J An old soldier, a patient of the Meath Hospital, suffering from hydrocele, was trained to urinate at the word of command, at intervals of one minute, into a succession of test tubes. When his training had been completed by a few days’ instruction, the sac of the hydrocele was emptied and injected with two drachms of tincture of iodine. The patient then urinated at intervals of one minute into the test tubes previously prepared, commencing at one minute after the injection. The fourth test tube responded slightly to the starch test for iodine, and the fifth and subsequent tubes showed its presence very distinctly. Prom this experiment it is evident that the entire process, viz. absorption by the tunica vaginalis; transmission by the lymphatics and capillary veins to the heart; retransmission by the renal arteries to the kidneys; secretion of urine and its transmission to the bladder by the ureters, occupies less than four minutes, or about five times the entire time required for the circulation of the blood. A. Menzel and H. Perco § injected various nutritive materials sub- cutaneously in dogs, to determine the possibility of their absorption, and found that oils (olive, almond, liver), in quantities varying from one drachm to one ounce, were only slowly absorbed, nothing, however, remaining after forty-eight hours. Milk and solution of sugar were taken up more quickly, as was also yolk of egg. Similar results as regards the fat were obtained from experiments on man. Legalas || shows that absorption, at least of iodide of potassium, takes place with extreme slowness, and only to a very small extent, from the bladder of man, a trace only being detectable in the saliva forty-eight hours after its injection, though it was almost immediately discoverable m the same secretion when it had been injected into the large intestine. * ‘Virchow’s Archiv,’ xlvii, p. 218. t ‘ Centralblatt,’ 1869, P- S4S- t ‘ Dublin Quart. Journ.,’ 1870, xlix, p. 84. § ‘Wien. Med. Wochens.,’ 1869, No. 31. II ‘Comptes Rendus,’ 1869, xii, p. 732.