238 REPORT ON SURGERY. . A case °f traumatic tetanus treated successfully by the administra- tion ol Calabar bean is recorded by Dr. Ilaining in the ‘ Lancet,’ Dec. 18, 1869. The symptoms came on sixteen days after a crush of the leg. One-grain doses of the extract were given at first every three hours. On the fourth day the dose was doubled with the effect that after each dose complete relaxation occurred. On the sixth day the dose was increased to three grains. The following day the spasm was so great that the dose could not be taken by the mouth, and an injection of a third of a grain, subcutaneously, controlled the spasm for a time. On the twenty-second day the dose had increased (by injection) to forty- one grains in the twenty-four hours, the largest individual dose being six grains. When the injections were omitted the spasms returned. ^ On the twenty-seventh day the dose was diminished. On the thirty-first day the extract was discontinued. The fluid was made slightly alkaline by the addition of bicarbonate of potash. The injections were repeated in proportion to the severity of the symptoms. Several abscesses occurred in connection with the punctures. Use of curare.—Professor Busch, of Bonn, gives his experience in the history and treatment of traumatic tetanus and trismus during the Bohemian war of 1866, in a pamphlet republished from the ‘ Yerhandl. des Naturh. Yereins fiir ftheinland und Westphalen.’ The fights in Paris in 1848 brought 1000 wounded to the hospital, but none were attacked by tetanus. During the Schleswig-Holstein war, 1849, a single case came under the notice of Stromeyer. On the other hand, there were eighty-six cases during the Italian war of 1859, on the Aus- trian side, as Demme informs us, and even more, namely, 140, on the Italian side. The expedition to the Crimea occasioned the admission to, and the treatment of, 12,094 wounded in the English hospitals, nineteen of whom, only, suffered from subsequent attacks of tetanus. 363 such cases occurred during the great American war. The per- centage of occurrences is largest in hot climates ; for instance, Gilbert Blanc states that thirty cases of traumatic trismus and tetanus hap- pened during the West Indian war, when the number of the wounded was 810. Dr. Busch had twenty-one cases under his observation in his field hospitals. Twelve of these were in the castle of Hradek, where 500 patients were accommodated; five in the Lazaretto of Nechanic, where 600 were confined; two in Castle Prim, and two in Castle Stracon. Dr. Busch believed that special localities and overcrowding favoured the attacks. Almost all the cases were gunshot wounds of the lower extremities; this is partly explained by the timely removal, to more distant hospitals, of those who had wounds of the upper limbs. The percentage of recovery is larger in tropical climates ; at least Blanc saved 43 per cent.; of Demme’s cases 7 per cent, recovered; 7’4 was the per cent, in the American war; of Busch’s twenty-one cases, seven were saved, i. e. 33} per cent. The proportion is the more favorable the less acute the cases are. When the symptoms become alarming on the first or second day of the attack, where the pulse reaches from 90 to 120 beats, and tbe temperature exceeds 40° C. (104° E.), no hope is left. The intensity of the single attacks, the ra-