REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 470 ligature and successive stimulations the patient’s safety, and that of the part hurt, are best provided for. Dr. Mitchell believes that if it were well understood that the thousand local remedies in popular repute are valueless, and that the simple and decisive means above described should alone be used, very few deaths from snake-bite would occur. He also attributes the beneficial effects attributed to the use of carbolic acid to the fact that it “slows” the absorption, and hence the venom poison- ing. It is hence of use in dressing the fang wounds. Professor Halford,* of Melbourne, recommends the use of ammonia as an antidote for snake venom, and publishes some remarkable results of this method of treatment. About twelve minims of the strongest Liq. Ammoniac is diluted with thrice its bulk of water, and injected into a superficial vein, by preference the radial. The results certainly appear to have been marvellous. Blood-stains. Dr. Joseph C. Richardson,! of Pennsylvania, has made an elaborate examination of blood-stains, and has succeeded in detecting blood- corpuscles in stains in which it has hitherto been thought impossible to recognise them, viz. those where the fabric bearing the stains has been washed. This he has done by employing the higher powers of the microscope, as, for instance, a i-a^th inch objective. With such powers even corpuscles which have been decolourised through the washing away of their hsemato-crystalline are recognisable by their peculiarities of form and structure, which are fully described in the memoir. The author identifies these washed corpuscles with the straight or slightly waved filaments, sometimes more fibrous, sometimes more wrinkled and homogeneous, of Virchow, long thought to be masses of fibrin, and states that they contain very little fibrin. He appends the following very practical advice:—“In examining the moistened clot great care must be taken to avoid any movement of the cover upon the slide, which, when it occurs, often rolls the inter- posed discs into an apparently homogeneous mass ; and it is advisable to keep up a current of fresh water, at least until all tinge of colour is removed from the clot, otherwise none but the granular lymph-cor- puscles may be visible. Dr. Richardson states that, although it must be admitted that the blood-corpuscles of a few mammals approximate so closely in size to those of man as to render their discrimination doubtful, yet in the practical testing of blood-stains in criminal cases it is rarely found that such a decision is necessary, since, as a rule, justice only requires that a positive diagnosis shall be made between human blood and that of animals which are commonly slaughtered for food, such as the ox, the sheep, the pig; or of birds, as for example, chickens, ducks, &c., in regard to all of which he believes that when the discs have not undergone disintegration a first-rate i-a$th inch objective will enable us to determine the question easily and beyond doubt. Unfortunately the paper is marred by the omission of measure- * ‘ Med. Times and Gaz./ 1869, i, p. 123. f c Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc.,’ 1869, cxv, p. 50.