tite puerperal state. 425 deposit on tlxe mucous membrane of the genitals, and slighter endome- tritis. 6. ltising on the sixth to the eighth day, lasting two to six days, then rapid return to the normal-breaking up and removal of thrombi from the uterine sinuses, the general condition being almost undis- turbed 7 Early remarkable rising of temperature, even m labour, or on the first or second day, long continuance of the rise without remissions -malignant diseases, ending either fatally or in tedious and exhausting convalescence, as endometritis, peritonitis, perimetritis, phlebitis, &c. Monatsschr. f. G-eburtsk.,’ Dec., 1868.) . ,. Puerperal fever.—Dr. Braxton Hicks (‘ Obstetr. Trans., 1870) dis- cusses this subject, taking the causes for his basis. He distributes 89 observed cases into two groups, the first including those having an ascer- tained or probable cause, the second those in which the cause was uncertain. In the first group 3 7 had a scarlatinal origin, the rash being observed in 20; 6 were erysipelas, 7 diphtheria, 2 typhoid, 9 decom- position of uterine contents, 1 emanations from a sloughy wound, 1 puerperal fever, 4 mania, 1 pyaemia from sore nipples. It thus appears that a very large proportion of cases of puerperal fever which occur out of lying-in hospitals are the result of contagion with some epidemic disease, the chief of which is scarlatina. Dr. Hicks illustrates (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869) the advantage of intra-uterine douche after labour to prevent and lessen the danger of puerperal fever. He adopts Dr. Barnes’ division of puerperal fever into the exogenetic cases which arise from contagion of scarlatina, &c., and endogenetic, arising from poisonous discharges within the genitals. In almost all cases of puerperal fever he has found the lochia offensive. The injection he employs is permanganate of potash. (It should not be forgotten that in such cases Harvey injected the uterus.) Dr. Hervieux, relying upon his experience as physician to the Mater- nite, states further conclusions as to the propagation of the puerperal ■poison. He affirms that cases are not very rare of sudden death without any appreciable lesion being discovered, and which are due to the terrible energy with which the puerperal poison works. In other cases the incubation is longer, and in others the organism is refractory to the agency of the poison. If patients who are the objects of repeated toxical impregnations are removed from the sphere of danger recovery is often rapid. Pregnant women invaded by the poison often are taken in premature labour, and symptoms manifest themselves during labour. The mode of propagation is by contagion. M. Hervieux always found that during the times when the pupils were absent at their examinations the number of cases of diseases fell remarkably, and rose when they returned. The explanation is simply that contagion by intermediaries was suppressed. He contends that overcrowding and other defective arrangements are of quite subsidiary importance, and believes that a hospital constructed on the cottage-principle, every woman having a separate room, would be equally open to the spread of infection. The only safe plan is domiciliary attendance, or distributing the patients at the residences of midwives. (‘ L’Union Med.,’ Dec., 1869.) Dr. Tyler Smith relates a case (‘Obstetr. Trans.,’ 1869) in which he injected ammonia into the veins of a woman apparently dying. Following