828 REPORT ON SURGERY. ted this opinion. It was not thought that the symptoms depended on an embolism of the artery, for there was no heart disease, but that a local stasis of the blood had occurred in the vessels of the leg, dependent, in part, on a most feeble heart-action, and partly on an abnormal con- dition of the blood itself. Both lower extremities were for a time in a condition analogous to that of frost-bite, but, from some cause which is not apparent, the right limb recovered. In the left limb there was also a nodulated condition of the lymphatics of the calf, such as is met with in frost-bite. That such a train of symptoms should have occurred in a semi-tropical climate (Cape of Grood Hope), and in a very hot season, is remarkable. It is obvious that exposure to cold could have had no part in their causation. The man recovered well and completely after the operation. (‘ Lancet,’ vol. i, 1870.) Sebaceous tumours of the cranial region.—Mr. Prescott Hewitt writes on this subject in the ‘St. Greorge’s Hosp. Rep.,’ iv, p. 91. They are the most common of all the various tumours of the cranial region. One kind, the dermoid, are found with few exceptions in the neighbour- hood of the orbit, and frequently at one particular spot, the outer part of the brow, close to the external angular process of the frontal bone. The hardness often met with in these tumours is dependent on their being cram-full, not on the nature of the cyst or its contents. It may be taken for granted that a small, hard, movable tumour on the outer side of the brow of a young child is one of these sebaceous cysts. They are frequently seated under the orbicularis, and connected with the periosteum. In the great majority of cases the sebaceous tumours are of a different character; no traces of skin structure can be found. In some of these it is difficult to distinguish between the cyst-wall and the contents. “ The now common expression of ‘ thick-walled cyst ’ is, I believe, an erroneous one. That which is supposed to represent the wall of a thick cyst is, properly speaking, not the cyst itself, but simply a part of its contents. A careful examination proves that the whole appearance is dependent on the disposition of the contents of the cyst; the inner layers are soft and pappy, but the outer ones, made up of flattened epithelial scales, condensed and closely packed in layers, look like a tough fibrous tissue, which, being more or less intimately con- nected with the cyst, has been described as part of it.” Cases are narrated of pitting and perforation of the bone by these tumours. “ It is curious to observe how very frequently the sebaceous tumours which have perforated the skull have been lying at one and the same spot. In four, out of the five cases mentioned above, the perforation corresponded to the upper and middle part of the frontal bone, close to the sagittal suture; and in two other cases, in which the absorption of bone was extensive, the tumour was precisely at the same spot.” When these orowths ulcerate and fungate they may resemble cancerous tumours. The tumours met with about the brow are generally single, whereas in the hairy scalp they are mostly multiple. Hot only so, but they occur in several members of the same family, and that for generations toge- ther. The brother, sister, mother and grandfather of one lady, who had twenty-three sebaceous tumours, were each of them afflicted with a