434 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. spina bifida sac by injection of iodine. Having made an exploratory puncture and drawn off about an ounce of the fluid, he had the tumour so held as to occlude the opening into the spinal cord; the following- solution was then injected:—Water 5xi, tincture of iodine 5iij, iodide of potassium 180 grains. The liquid was left in the sac five minutes, the sac being kneaded by the operator’s hand. The solution was then withdrawn to the last drop by the exhausting action of the syringe. In a fortnight there was only a hard nucleus left, no larger than a walnut. Eoux contends that his success was due to the precautions he used. A rare form of spina bifida, the sac projecting into the abdominal cavity, and of a size to present features in common with an ovarian cyst. By T. A. Emmet, M.D. (‘ Amer. Journ. of Obst.,’ 1871.) A case of spina bifida, presenting all the features of a lipoma, ope- rated upon for the latter disease. By B. E. Dawson, M.D. (ibid.). These two cases are of unusual interest. Dr. McSwiney describes congenital tumour of the head in a new-born infant (‘Dubl. Quart. Journ. of Med.,’ 1870). Dr. Wurster examines the temperature of new-lorn children (‘ Berl. klin. Wochnsch.,’ 1869). Dr. Schroeder discusses the question, can the air le completely expelled from the lungs of 'new-born infants lohich have breathed? One important bearing of the question is that, whether breathing must be taken to be the essential test of live-birth ; and if so, whether breathing may have been effected without leaving any mark of expansion of the lung by air ? He assents to the proposition of Maschka, that cases occur in which new- born children move and emit sounds and cries without it being possible to show air in the lungs ; but he contends in addition that the children have breathed; that air had penetrated the lungs in the ordinary way, and had afterwards quitted the lungs, so that on section they were per- fectly empty of air. In favour of this view he cites the evidence and opinion of Simon Thomas, who submits—1. That it is possible in new- born children for a greater or lesser part of the lungs to be penetrated by air, and then to return to the foetal condition, causing the child to perish of slow asphyxia. Thus, we find sometimes in children which have cried strongly no trace of air in the lungs. 2. This condition occurs in premature children, and also in mature children when they are ill- developed. 3. The cause of this abnormity depends probably on the im- perfect energy of the inspiratory muscles. 4. The absence of air from the lungs of new-born children is, therefore, no sure proof that a child has not lived and has not breathed. This is strenuously denied by Maschka, who says that if air has once fairly expanded lung-tissue it cannot be expelled by the elasticity of the lung-tissue. Schroeder contends that crying loudly is proof of breathing; and that hence, if no air is afterwards found in the lungs, it is because these have collapsed and expelled the air. He then puts another question: is it possible, and in what way, to prove that a child has lived when it shows foetal lungs P He attached chief importance in this respect to the views of Breslau, who says that air is never found in the intestinal canal of chil- dren which have not breathed ; and in fresh children, where air cannot