367 OPHTHALMOLOGYETC. eye astigmatic. These lenses are of aperture corresponding to the size of the pupil when dilated to the fullest extent; and they are provided with stops, in Avhich the apertures correspond to a medium and a small pupil respectively. The artificial eye is mounted on an upright stem, with a foot, and made to slide to any required height; and a branch from this stem carries a small blackened screen, intended to show the position of the image of the flame. The whole is made by Nachet et fils ; and, together with a series of twelve pictures, is supplied by them for fifty francs. The copper cups for additional pictures are supplied at twenty-five centimes each, and, prepared with a simple red ground, at one franc.* Dr. Maurice Perrin and M. Mascartf have contrived what they call a new optometer. It consists of a tube, carrying at one end a test object, etched transparently on blackened glass, and at the other end a convex ocular lens. Within the tube a concave lens, of shorter focal length than the ocular, traverses to and fro, and the combination allows the eye to receive rays of any degree of divergence or convergence. The indicated degrees of myopia or hypermetropia are marked on the tube, so as to be read off at a glance. The test object may be either fine characters, or concentric lines, or lines for the determination of astigmatism. The following additional references may also be given: Cornea.—De Gouvea, “ Contributions to the Pathology of Burns of the Cornea from Lime,”1 Arch, of Ophth. and Ot./ p. 208. Iris.—Passavant, “ Letter to v. Graefe on a Method of Corelysis,” ‘ Arch. f. 0.,’ xv, Abth. 1, p. 259; Arlt, F., jun., “ On the Time required for Movements of the Iris,” ib., p. 294 ; Saemisch, “ On Coloboma Oculi,” ib., Abth. 3, p. 276 ; Haase, “ On the Patho- logical Anatomy of Coloboma/ ib., xvi, Apth. 1, p. 113 ; Kugel, “ On the Influence of the Lens on the Tension of the Iris/ 328; Pomier, ‘On Iridectomy/ 8vo, Paris, 1870; Lebrun, ‘ Foreign Body in the Iris,” ‘ Ann. d’Oculist/ Ixiv, p. 137. Vitreous.—Gouvea, <[ Results of Experiments on Detachment of Vitreous subsequent to its escape,” ‘Arch. f. 0./ xv, Abth. x, p. 244; Stilling, “An Inquiry into the Struc- ture of the Vitreous,” ib., Abth. 3, p. 299. Retina and Optic Nerve.—Landesberg, “ Contribution to the Treatment of Detached Retina, ‘Arch. f. 0., xv, Abth. 1, p. 193; “Embolia of Retina, followed by Embolia of the Artery of the Fissure of Sylvius,” ib., p. 214; “ Pigmentation of Retina after Retino-choroiditis, with Restoration of Normal Vision,” ib., p. 220 ; Pagenstecher Herrmann, “ Case of Injury to the Optic Nerve, with Laceration of the Central Vessels,”' ib., p. 223; Woinow, “On Vision with the Blind-spot and its Vicinity,” ib., Abth. 2 p. 153 ; Schmidt, Herrmann, “On Optic Neuritis in Brain Disease,” ib., p. 193 • Leber' “0n Pigmentary Retinitis and Congenitial Amaurosis,” ib., Abth 3, P. 1 ; “ On Per- versions of the Sense of Colour in Diseases of the Eyes,” ib., p. 26; Schmidt and W egner, On the Similarity of the Neuro-retinitis in Brain Tumour and Bright’s Dis- ease, ib., p. 233; Manz, “Experimental Investigations into Diseases of the Optic Nerve consequent upon Brain Lesions,” ib., xvi, Abth. 1, p. 263 ; Kugel, “On a Simple wVn,T«0kid be d;^Ult to °ver'est>mate the value of this instrument as a means of eaching the use of the ophthalmoscope to students. It would be improved by the addition of a mask to represent the face, and to afford a resting place for the finder in the examination of the inverted image.—R. B. C. b f ‘ Annales d’Oculistique/ 1869, ii, p. 5.'