129 CROUP AND DIPHTHERIA. ease; the improbability of any morbid origin existing in the nerve- centres, which can narrow the glottis, without also dilating it, excludes with certainty any central lesion. The same argument holds good or the vagus and recurrens, and the author opposes Gerhardt s viev, a there must be some one pathological element alone to affect exact y that point of the recurrent nerve (the whole diameter ot which is very small) by which the shutting and opening is governed. Quite as un- supported by proof is the view that one of the two blanches, of the recurrent, the superior or inferior, is affected. The affection itself is in most cases of a rheumatic nature: the paralysis occurs at one time like facial paralysis independently, or in connection with rheumatic inflammation of'the joints; in other cases it succeeds severe catarrh of the larynx, or removal of polypi, or strong cauterisation, and then ceases of itself after a short time. One of the causes of this affection is the great exertion required for closing the Yocal cords in singing, shouting, or using words of command. Of nineteen patients of this kind whom he had an opportunity of observing, six were singers, four actors, and two teachers. The paper concludes with seven cases of vocal paralysis in illustration of the preceding remarks, with wmodcuts repre- senting the laryngoscopic appearances of the paralysed parts during inspiration and phonation. Riegel, “Ueber Recurrens-lalimungen,” ‘Deut. Arch.,' vi, 37; id., “Ueber Lahmung einzelner Kehlkopftnuskeln,” ib., vii, 204. Croup and Diphtheria* Johnson(“ The Morbid Anatomy of Croup,” ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1870, i, 4), insists that under the name of croup, English waiters confound two distinct diseases: 1. Acute catarrhal laryngitis, inflammatory croup of children ; in which, whether in them or in adults, the only structural change after death is congestion and swelling, with, sometimes, super- ficial abrasion of the mucous membrane, and mucous or puriform exu- dation on the surface, but no tenacious false membrane. 2. Diphthe- ritic croup, attended both in children and in adults with the formation of a more or less abundant and tenacious false membrane in the air- passages, dependent not on the age of the patient, but on the specific character of the disease. In the latter affection he considers that local remedies are especially valuable. Bartliez (‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1869, 37), gives a case of croup in a girl set. five years, on whom tracheotomy was performed, the wound taking on a diphtheritic appearance later, and the canula being kept in till the 126th day. In the epidemic observed by Konig (‘Berl. Klin. ’W’och.,’ 1869, 198), the diphtheria spread almost always by contagion, once from direct poisoning by means of an instrument, which having been employed upon a diphtheritic child was afterwards used for a complicated harelip opera- tion on a baby, the latter becoming affected the third day, and dying ; beside this, a child operated upon for empyema died from extension of * These affections have, for the sake of convenience, been placed here, instead of among general diseases, with which, in all probability, tliev should he classed.—A. B S 9