144 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. bronchitis, especially of the smaller bronchi, ancl by inflammation of the lung-tissue ; these inflammatory changes are capable of complete resolution, or they may lead to a permanent infiltration and induration, with their consequences. Practically, this view implies a very important rule, that patients who have brought up blood from the air-passages or lungs ought to be very carefully watched, especially by means of the thermometer, for. some days afterwards, even if the haemorrhage have quite ceased, and, however slight the consequent symptoms be, should be kept quiet till all pyrexial symptoms have disappeared. Weber (ib., 43) publishes three cases, one with autopsy, of a similar nature to Baumler’s, in that the lungs did not exhibit, on examina- tion, any signs of organic disease at the time the first haemorrhage occurred, and in that it wras not till several days later that symptoms of inflammation appeared, accompanied by elevation of temperature. In two of the cases there was a great tendency to epistaxis, and he thinks that the haemoptysis must be looked upon as analogous to that. Pie holds, however, that Niemeyer goes too far in asserting that cases of haemoptysis are followed by a more or less violent irritation of the lungs and pleura, as he has seen nine cases of more or less severe haemoptysis, in five of which no elevation of temperature or other sign of pleuro-pneumonia occurred. As regards treatment, he looks upon rest as the most essential point, and, in addition to gallic and sulphuric acids, he advises the continued application of ice bags to the chest, and ergot of rye in doses of three to six drachms of the watery extract in the twenty-four hours, and in cases where there is a tendency to haemoptysis a prolonged residence in some elevated spot. In a memoir translated from the ‘ IIospitals-Tidende,’ 1869 (£Ediu. Med. Journ.,’ xv, 27, 228) Rasmussen gives details of several cases of haemoptysis from a pulmonary aneurism bursting into a cavity, and, while restating his own views of its pathology, argues agaiust those advocated by Niemeyer. In disproof of the opinion that phthisis may be the result of cheesy pneumonia set up by primary haemoptysis, he relates three cases of the latter from penetrating wounds of the chest, which were not followed by symptoms of phthisis, tubercular or other. Cotton (‘Lancet,’ 1869,11,741) publishes the case of a joiner, act. 42, who died of acute pulmonary tuberculosis simulating typhoid fever. Both lungs were found studded with miliary tubercles; several of the latter were found in the liver and kidneys. Four days before death fine crepitation was heard under the left clavicle, becoming large two days later, and extending over the whole left side in front, accompanied by small crepitation on the right side. The question whether phthisical patients, or persons disposed to con- sumption, should be advised to marry, opened by Hartsen ot Cannes in one of his amusing letters, is taken up by Virchow (‘Arch.,’ xlix, 577), and decided in the negative. Jeannin (‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1869,95) describes the cutaneous pigmen- tation often met with in phthisical patients, especially on the face, recalling the complexion of pregnant women. The most striking of the accompanying symptoms is an absence of haemorrhage. The autopsy