COLOTOMY FOR VESICO-INTESTINAL FISTULA. ZJO The Momer General Hospital of Philadelphia consists of fifty huts, accommodating 5000 patients. A tramroad runs round, and waggons bring the food, &c., to each hut-ward without delay. A telegraph con- nects the huts with the other parts of the administration. A branch from the railroad permitted the cars to come from near the battle-field to the door of the hospital. There is a printing establishment which prints a newspaper, the articles being written by the staff, &c., und given gratis to the patients, the cost being defrayed by the sum received for the slush from the hospital kitchen. (‘ Brit. Med. .Tourn,, Oct. 8, 1870.) Colotomy for vesico-intestinal fistula.—For previous notices see the ‘ Retrospects ’ for 1866-67 and for 1867-68. Mr. Bryant communicates the following case to the ‘ Med.-Chir. Review,’ Jan. 1869. W. D- , a cellarman, aged forty-nine, had, for two years, noticed the occasional passage of slime and blood with his motions. Some eight months pre- viously he had passed flatus and a small quantity of blood and faeces with his urine. The latter was found, on examination, to be loaded with feculent matter, and, at times, solid faeces passed per urethram. The whole calibre of the lower bowel, as far as the finger could reach, was superficially ulcerated, but this ulceration was not associated with much adventitious deposit, nor with any such as usually exists in cancer ; the bowel appeared to be fixed in its position, and glued to the parts around by inflammatory lymph ; a stricture of the bowel was clearly felt high up, through which the tip of the finger could just be passed. “ The nature of the case was thus tolerably clear. It was one of ulceration and stricture of the lower bowel, with a fistulous communication be- tween the bowel and the bladder. It was fair to believe that this com- munication was indirect, from the fact that no urine made its way into the bowel, and it appeared probable that the large intestine was the part involved, from the solid nature of the faeces passed per urethram. Under these circumstances colotomy was performed as the only means of affording relief. Afterwards an abscess formed at the base of the bladder, presenting in the perinaeum, and was opened. Later a sudden passage of liquid faeces and of flatus through the urethra occurred about two months after the operation; then the patient’s health gradually failed, liquid faeces passed regularly through the urethra, evi- dently from the small intestine, and the man died four months after the operation. At the post-mortem the lungs were found studded with miliary tubercles, and the left kidney contained a large abscess. There was no evidence of recent or general peritonitis. The rectum descended normally from the sigmoid flexure, but in the pelvis became adherent to the bladder, and opened into a large abscess. The calibre of the rectum continued open, however, to the anus. All signs of ulceration had dis- appeared, and, with the exception of the large opening into the cavity at the base of the bladder, no signs of disease of the rectum remained. I he abscess, at the base of the bladder communicated also with the small intestine and the bladder. Between the rectum and the bladder \vas a large abscess, with dense adhesions all round it. Into this opened, first, the ileum where adherent to the bladder; next, the rectum