REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 4-1S operations ; but it may well be questioned whether, with a pelvis mea- suring 2 in. in the conjugate and in. in the diagonal diameters, it is not more in accordance with sound principle and science to perform embryotomy. The cephalotribe; the removal of the vault of the cranium, and extraction by the face; or sections of the skull by the wire ecraseur, after the reporter’s method, might all have effected delivery. —It. B.) (‘Mon. f. G-eburtsk.,’ Dec., 1869.) Dr. J. W. Boe relates an interesting case of Caesarian section. Pri- mipara. She had suffered from mollifies ossium nearly four years ; she had no abortion. Labour occurred (it is presumed) at term. A small but living and healthy child was removed; the uterus contracted and descended into the pelvis. She died four days after the operation. She had been some time in labour, and the pulse had been 120 the night previous to the operation. ISTo attempt at union of the incision was found ; the abdominal cavity contained some bloody serum; the intestines were glued together by recent lymph. The uterus was con- tracted ; the edges of the incision made in it were everted, but the cut surfaces were glued together. The pelvis had the typical osteomalacic form. The great contraction at the outlet left no available space for working instruments at the brim. (‘ Lancet,’ 1870.) A case is related (‘Obstetr. Trans.,’ 1870) by Dr. Braxton Hicks. The pelvis was obstructed by a large myoma firmly attached to the pelvic wall. Blood was poured out very freely from the pla- cental site and from the uterine wound. Perchloride of iron stopped the first. To stop the latter, silver sutures were used to close the ute- rine wound and to bring the uterus into contact with the abdominal wall. There were very large masses of myoma in the uterine walls. Violent vomiting harassed the patient, and she died three days after the operation. No extravasation of blood was found in the peritoneal cavity, thus showing the efficacy of the sutures employed. Dr. Barnes describes (‘ Obstetr. Trans.,’ 1870) a new form of suture, by means of which the uterine wound is closed and the uterus brought into contact with the abdominal wound, and which admits of being removed by the vagina when the union has taken place. It secures against haemorrhage and the escape of fluids from the uterine into the peritoneal cavity. Dr. 0. von Pranque describes a spinous pelvis (stachelbecken) in the "Wurzburg collection (‘ Scanzoni’s Beitrage,’ 1869), and gives the history of the labour. Labour being arrested by narrowness of the brim, and the child being dead, perforation and cephalotripsy were re- sorted to. Scanzoni’s cephaiotribe slipped, several crushings were effected, and at last, after protracted proceedings, the head was extracted by the hook. The child weighed a little over six pounds. The patient died the same night, diphtheritis of the uterus and vagina having set in. Autopsy: no inj ury to soft parts. The connective tissue of the fore surface of the pelvis at the left was rotten, as was that of the iliac fossa. The dried pelvis showed projection of last lumbar vertebra and promon- tory into the pelvis ; the conjugate diameter gave 2"6"\ the transverse 4"6'". A little to the right of the symphysis was a spine, on the left a sharp ridge. It was a rachitic fiat pelvis. The ileo-pectineal tu-