207 AMPUTATIONS. on arterial transfusion (which he prefers to venous) is given in ‘ Med.- Chir. Rev.,5 July 1870, p. 27a, from ‘Archiv fur Klin. Chirurg.,’ xn, H. 1. Resisting power oj' arteries secuved by ligature, torsion, cind acuprcs- sure j)r Alex. O^ston has made some experiments with reference to the resisting power° of arteries under the influence of acupressure, of torsion, and°of ligatures. The vessels were injected with fluid, and the amount of the pressure exercised on their walls estimated by a dynamo- meter. When a vessel had been twisted a weak steady current soon opened the twist, and the stream flowed out at the end, the conclusion being that an artery so secured would not be able to resist the full pressure of the heart’s action. After acupressure, without rupture of the inner coats, very little pressure was required to overcome the re- sistance ; if, however, the needle ruptured the coats, then considerable pressure was borne. After ligature, pressure, equivalent to 114 inches of mercury, was insufficient to make the vessel yield, whereas, in other cases, from 27 to 40 inches represented the highest amounts borne.— (‘Lancet,’ April 17, 1869.) Amputation of arm, with removal of the scapula, Sfc.—Dr. Heron Watson, in the ‘Edin. Med. Journal,’ Aug. 1869, p. 124, records the case of a lad who had his arm torn off in a machine accident. By further laying bare the dorsum of the scapula, then freeing the posterior bor- der, and lastly, the upper and inner part, the bone was removed. After- wards the clavicle was removed as far inwards as the costo-clavicular ligament. Very little blood was lost, but a large number of vessels re- quired ligature. The lad recovered. Woodcuts are given of his appearance, and one also from a remarkable portrait of a man whose case is recorded by Cheselden. Tables are added of sixty-eight cases of removal of the whole or part of the scapula. Another case, under the care of Dr. M‘Leod, of Bengal, not included in these tables, is recorded at p. 567 of ‘ Edin. Med. Journal,’ Dec. 1869. Dr. Gf. H. Macleod writes on amputation at the ankle-joint. He has chiefly practised Mr. Syme’s method (in 32 cases out of 30).—(‘Brit. Med. Journal,’ Aug. 28, 1869.) Amputation through the knee-joint.—Mr. Pollock, in a communication to the Med.-Chir. Society, strongly advocates amputation through the knee-joint in suitable cases. The flap should be long, anterior, and broad; the patella left if healthy. The stump is much more useful, and an artificial limb can be adapted more easily. In the ‘ Dub. Quart. Med. Journ.,’ May 1870, will be found four cases of amputation through the knee-joint, and one of Carden’s operation, under the care of Dr. MacCormac. The patella was left in each case, and remained movable. Dr. MacCormac strongly advocates the non-removal of the cartilaginous surfaces.. The incisions were begun one inch below the head of the tibia, avoiding cutting between the two flaps higher than was necessary as insisted on by Mr. Pollock. Statistics from various sources are quoted.