81 LEUCHliMIA. Leuchcemia. Mosler (‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1869, 357) showed to the Medical Society at Gfreifswald a patient, set. 35 years, with very advanced leucbsemia lienalis. The enormous enlargement of the spleen, as well as the disease generally, could he traced back to a very obstinate inter- mittent fever, lasting for several years. An interesting fact was the occurrence at the same time of wasting paralysis of the lower ex- tremities. The patient was very exhausted from profuse epistaxis, haemoptysis, and sweating. Mosler proposed to try transfusion. Behier contributes (‘L’Union Med.,’ 1869, viii, 267) an interesting case of leuchaemia in a man set. 23, who had been perfectly healthy up to April, 1868 ; from this time he became rapidly weaker, without any symptoms, except palpitation and dyspnoea on exertion, up to the time of his admission into hospital in July, when he was extremely pale and emaciated, with enlargement of the heart, but none of the spleen or glands. The blood was repeatedly examined, and found to be very deficient in red, and rich in white, corpuscles, the number of both being about equal. The general exhaustion increased, and he died on the fifth day after admission. The autopsy showed the spleen scarcely enlarged, reddish-white, and firm on section, but not lardaceous ; no enlargement of inguinal or axillary glands ; black pigmentation of the intestinal villi, and considerable swelling of Beyer’s patches, which under the microscope presented great increase in the lymphoid elements of the tissue surrounding the several closed follicles which composed the patch. The same microscopical appearances were found in the solitary glands, the lesions thus entirely consisting of “ lymphatic deposits, true lymphomata.” Bohn (‘ Deut. Arch.,’ v, 429) describes a case of pseudo-leuchsemia in a man of fifty-six, the glands on both sides of whose neck became greatly swollen in consequence of repeated (febrile) attacks of tonsillitis; the inguinal glands were affected in the same way, and the liver and spleen considerably increased in size. The tonsils were finally extirpated. The patient was attacked with pleurisy, with effusion on the right side, and during convalescence the swelling of the glands disappeared, that of the liver alone remaining. Suddenly he completely lost his appetite, sank, and died at last of a peritonitis, set up by no cause that could be recognised, and rather slow in its course. The examination of the blood showed no increase in the white blood-cells. At the autopsy the following appearances were found : beside the pleurisy, about twenty-five pints of clear, yellowish-red fluid, poor in fibrin, in the abdomen ; liver enormously enlarged, especially the right lobe, intensely nutmeg, beset with numerous, microscopic points of lymphatic new growth. The spleen, twice its normal size, everywhere adherent, appeared simply hypertrophied. The intestines were glued together by fibrin-clots; the serous membrane covering them and the liver pre- sented countless whitish-grey nodules, made up throughout of lymphatic elements. The glands behind the peritoneum were considerably en- 6