INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 17o the perforation, and believes that it occurs only in those cases in which the latter is tolerably large and not obstructed. Wernick (‘ Yirch. Arch.,’ 1,1.38) records a case of malignant stricture of the upper part of the jejunum from epithelial cancer, with dilatation of the duodenum; death followed from rupture of the latter during a fit of severe vomiting. McEvoy, “A Worm discharged through an Abscess” (lumbricus, in a hoy, set. 14; no autopsy), ‘Med. Press and Circ.,’ 1869, ii, 6; Davey, “Abdominal Puncture in Tym- panites,” ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869, ii, 210; Mahonv, “ Ulceration of Intestine causing Sudden Death,” ib., 428; Aufrecht, “Entzundung des Processus vermiformis, Perity- phlitis; Phlebitis und Thrombose der Vena Mesenterica Magna,” ‘ Berl. klin. Woch.,’ 1869, 308; Behm, “ Vereiterung des Wurmfbrmigen Fortsatzes,” ‘ Deut. Klin.,’ 1869, 269; Subbotin, “ Ueber die Anwendung des Extr. Semin. Phvsostigmatis Venenosi bei atomischen Zustaftden des Darmkanals,” ‘Deut. Arch.,’ vi, 285; Quinquaud, “Cholera sporadique sec; mort; autopsie; degenerescence granulo-graisseuse des muscles de la vie de relation ; quelques mots sur les traces polygraphiques des crampes,” ‘Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ 1869, 471; Vallin, “Observations d’Hemorrhagie intestinale mortelle chez un cas de Phthisie aigue simulant une Fievre typhoide,” ‘ Union Med.,’ vii, 457; Thorowgood, “On Torpor of the Colon as a complication in Dyspepsia,” ‘Lancet,’ 1869, i, 559; and see ‘Path. Soc.,’ xix. Intestinal Obstruction. Fagge (‘ Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ xiv, 272) writes an important paper on this subject, the length of which precludes any very faithful abstract. He gives fifty-four cases, recorded among 4000 autopsies at Guy’s Hos- pital between 18^4-1868, inclusive, the cases of obstruction thus yield- ing an average of 1*4 per cent. He considers that, hernia excluded, the various forms of intestinal obstruction fall naturally under six heads. (1) Those in which the gut is plugged by its contents—gall-stones, intestinal concretions, masses of ingesta, &c., in illustration of which he gives four cases, a proof of the rarity of this form. (2) Intussusceptions or invaginations, of which he gives eight cases, one of the rectum, one ileo-csocal, and four of the small intestine. (,3) Strictures, the disease being seated in the substance of one or more of the coats, and ultimately narrowing the calibre of the intestine. He gives notes of twenty-two cases of this kind; the seat was six times in the rectum, six in the sigmoid flexure, three in the descending colon, three in the splenic flexure of the latter, once in the hepatic flexure of the latter, once in its ascending portion, once in the caecum, and once in the caecum and ileum. He adds two other cases, one of a child, aet. 12, in whom thenarrowing appeared to be due td the contraction of the peritoneal coat, and another of cancerous obstruction of the rectum in a woman. (4), Contractions, the disease beginning not within but outside the intestinal coats; sometimes on the serous surface of the intestine, sometimes in the mesenteric glands. Of sixteen cases given, three only affected the large, thirteen the small intestine. .(5) Volvuli, including folds and twists of the intestine, in which, without any new formation, the obstruction is due simply to pressure ol adjacent portions of the bowel or its mesentery, or both. Six cases.