320 HEP OUT ON SURGERY. Coates, as well as the immunity of the heel region already alluded to, that, although, as a general rule, we should sacrifice as little of the foot as possible, this is an exceptional disease; and that, when once perfo- rating ulcer of the sole of the foot is established and recognised, it is better at once to remove the whole of the metatarsal bones, either by Chopart s, Syme’s or Pirogoff’s amputations, than by palliative opera- tions and remedies condemn our patient to a succession of painful disappointments.” In a letter (appended to these remarks) from Dr. Haynes, of Salisbury, a report is given of a clinical lecture of Nekton’s in 1866. “It is an Eastern disease, for which no cure is known. It commences by a little induration of the skin of the heel, between the tubercles of the os calcis.” Ulceration occurs, there is considerable discharge, and soon the os calcis can be felt bare. “The head of the first metatarsal bone is the next osseous part diseased.” “ The man at present in hospital is rather old (forty-eight) to have it, it being usually found in young men. The disease has not penetrated beyond the skin.” Further remarks were made on an opening which subse- quently formed in the “ centre of a circular, depressed, black portion of skin of the size of a shilling, and looked as if it had been cleanly punctured out,” without any puriform discharge. The result is not given. See also M. Gosselin on this subject in ‘Retrospect,’ 1867-8, 243. ‘Med.-Chir. Review,’ April, 1869, chronicles that Adelmann (‘ Prag. Viertel.,’ i, 1869,) gives a critical review of sixteen French cases that have been published, and adds four which were met with in the Dorpat clinic. Flora (‘Allgem. Wien. Med. Zeit.,’ December 15) narrates numerous cases observed during the author’s residence in Europe. In the ‘British Medical Journal,’ April 2, 1870, is a brief abstract of some remarks made by Mr. Erichsen on the case of a man suffering from a “ perforating ulcer of the foot.” Such cases, he said, were unusual, and of great practical interest. In the case under notice there were the remains of a hard corn to be seen on the sole of the foot, while, on the corresponding part of the dorsum, was a small ulcerated aperture, from which pus was discharged. This ulcer was situate between the third and fourth metatarsal bones, very far back. On introducing a probe into the dorsal wound it made its exit in the sole through an aperture in the centre of the corn, there being a sinus which perforated the foot. The probe passed close to the bone (the neck of the third metatarsal), but no necrosis nor caries could be felt. Here, then, was a sinus per- forating the foot in a man otherwise healthy, there being no signs of struma or of any constitutional disease. How was it to be explained ? It appeared that he first noticed the corn about eighteen months before he came under care. Suppuration took place in the subcutaneous cellulo-adipose tissue, and the pus escaped through an aperture in the centre of the corn. This aperture subsequently closed, and the pus, travelling upwards, finally made its exit through the in tegumental structures of the dorsum of the foot. In the treatment of such cases, if there be diseased bone, it should be removed. In this case there was none, so the same line of practice was adopted as in the treatment of any sinus, viz. stimulation. A seton of two silk threads was intro-