271 CHEESY DEPOSITS IN BONE. already referred to in regard to the lower limbs is taken into account, the general result of the statistics may be taken as fairly correct. . In twenty-two per cent, of all the cases, no chronic disease of in- ternal organs is recorded. In many of these instances there was marked amemia without evident internal disease. It is not to he infened that this was absent in all, for it may exist in a state which cannot be detected by the naked eye. In 26'i per cent, of the cases there was a considerable amount of in- ternal disease. The coincidence is too frequent to be regarded as a mere accident, and yet not so marked that too much weight should be attached to it. . Caries of the lower limbs appears especially to be attended with chronic induration and fatty disease of the abdominal organs. This is, perhaps, to be explained by the circumstance that patients with caries of the lower limbs are laid up early, and often for a long time; so that the development of disease in the abdominal organs is directly or indi- rectly favoured by the impairment of digestion. It may also be sup- posed that morbid material is carried from the denuded parts by the lymphatic vessels, and5either deposited directly from them at the nearest point, or elaborated in and deposited from the blood. It must also be borne in mind that many of the patients suffered from other dis- eases, such as pulmonary tubercle, and that, therefore, all the deaths must not be attributed to disease diffused through the abdominal viscera. In speaking of the occurrence of cheesy deposits, ulcerations, caverns, and tubercles, Dr. Billroth remarks that in the term cheesy deposit he includes ulceration and caverns, but not the cheesy deposits, chronic abscesses, and fistula, which are directly connected with the caries as local results. Cheesy deposits in internal organs were found in 54-2 per cent., or more than half, of all the cases. This proportion is large, and it would be still more remarkable if all the cases of death from pro- fuse suppuration, from acute disease, from the sequelae of operations, &c., could be deducted from the total sum. The percentage of cheesy deposits in caries of the lower limbs was 53*1; in the head and trunk, 54'6; in the upper limbs, 56-9 ; the variation from the average, 54-2, being in none of those cases remarkable. But, in estimating the pro- portions with regard to individual bones, omitting those which furnished only a small number of cases of disease, the following results are found:—Shoulder-joint, 777 per cent.; bones of the chest, 65-5; ankle, 64; knee, 62-6; elbow, 623; vertebral column, 36*8; wrist, 51'2 5 pelvic bones, 507; hip, 47-5; tibia, 38; skull and facial bones, 33'6- The interpretation of these proportions, Dr. Billroth remarks, is difficult. If it be assumed that the poisonous matter is absorbed from cheesy, ulcerated deposits by the lymphatic vessels, and, being gradually deposited in internal organs, gives rise to cheesy deposits in them, it may be considered that the great propinquity of the shoulder and bones ot the chest to the lungs would readily lead to disease in these organs; and it is to be observed, that in a majority of the cases under notice the deposit was in the lungs. Dr. Billroth remarks, in passing, that the diffused diseases of the abdominal organs frequently