505 ENTER.TC EEVER. which determine the prevalence of typhoid. (io) It is most natural to regard these processes as going on in the soil; especially is it necessary to suppose that increased atmospheric precipitation exerts a beneficial action by saturating the porous soil with moisture, and not by a direct action of the weather on the organism; for an influence extending itself over months has been established, and the high level of the water already collected in the soil, regarded of itself, is followed by a favor- able and clearly perceptible action, (u) If we consider how often with a more than usual rain-fall there is also found, simultaneously, a level of ground-water above the average, it will be evident that in the majority of instances of such coincidence there is a connection between great rain-fall and high level of ground-water, and vice versa. It is not surprising to meet with this connection, but it is noteworthy that the ratios in which level of ground-water and rain-fall respectively stand to prevalence of typhoid are expressed with greater precision than their indubitable mutual connection. The connection between ground-water and rain-fall—a connection which no one doubts—is never so clearly expressed in the statistics as the connection between the frequency of enteric fever and the state of the ground-water. Hence there is no longer any rational ground for doubting this latter connection. (12) Poverty, improper or unwholesome food, cold, uncleanliness in and about the house, defective waterclosets and sewers, damp, badly venti- lated, overcrowded dwellings, marshes, &c., cannot explain the seasonal variations of enteric fever in Munich. These momenta act, for the most part, only upon the individual disposition in the way of producing typhoid; some also, perhaps, on the local disposition of the soil, since they impregnate this with organic matter. (13) Three great epidemics of enteric fever have broken out in Munich during the last fourteen years, during which period the state of the ground-water has been observed. The severest epidemic, in 1857-58, coincides with lowest level of ground-water; the next in severity, in 1865-66, with the next deepest; and the third in severity, in 1863-64, with the third level in depth of ground-water. (14) The same law comes out in the reverse case. Munich had the smallest typhoid mortality, since 1856, in the year 1867, at the time of the highest level of ground-water; the second smallest in 1860-61, at the time of the next highest level of the ground-water. (15) The influence of different potable waters upon the prevalence of enteric fever in Munich has failed to be in any way established. J Dr. Buchanan,* in a paper read before the Association of Medical Officers of Health, controverts Pettenkofer’s views. He states that Pettenkofer’s view is not a new one. Dr. Buchanan thinks that even on ctpriori grounds we may say that, until the contrary is shown, the presumption, as regards the coincidence of cholera and enteric fever with sinking ground-water, is that it is directly operative through drinking water supplied by wells; and he says that any one who will read Pettenkofer’s account of cholera in Malta and Gibraltar, observing his caref ul mention of the height of water in the wells, will not fail to be struck by the absence of any mention of the quality of the water * ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1870, i, p. 283.