REPORT ON SURGERY. 276 that caseous infiltrations and masses are found, which have often been called tubercle. That they are not of that nature seems to me evident; first, because it is so exceedingly rare to find them associated with tubercle in other organs ; secondly, they are always preceded by chronic inflammation; thirdly, it is frequently possible, in the same "bone, to trace the gradual change, through all its stages, of the ordinary products of chronic inflammation to a thoroughly caseous material; and, fourthly, these changes are precisely what take place in inflammatory products in other organs, independently of tubercle.” Treatment of suppurating joints by free incisions.—Mr. Bryant, in the ‘Med. Times and Gazette,’ May 15 and 29, 1869, narrates cases showing the advantages of free incisions into joints in which suppura- tion has occurred. In the number for June 12 Mr. Bryant discusses the pathology of diseases of the joints. Severe wound of the lenee-joint treated with counter-irritation.—Mr. Pur- neaux Jordan,in a communication to the Medical andChirurgical Society, detailed the case of a young man who received an incised, gaping wound in front of the right knee-joint. Inflammatory symptoms showed them- selves on the second day, and blistering over the femoral and anterior tibial arteries was immediately resorted to, and counter-irritation was kept up by the use of iodine. Enlargement of the bursa over the great trochanter.—Mr. Teale brings forward two cases in which the symptoms of hip disease were simulated by disease of the bursa between the great trochanter and the flat tendon of the gluteus maximus which is inserted in the fascia lata. They were relieved by free incisions laying open the cavity. He adds a third case (probable), and remarks that the cases agree very closely in several points. 1. All date from a bloiv on the trochanter major, rapidly followed by swelling in the situation of the blow. 2. In all there was absence of disease of the hip-joint, although, in one, the simulation was so close that the point could not be decided until the muscles became relaxed under chloroform. 3. In the first two the family history and personal history up to the time of injury were good. 4. All three recovered rapidly after free opening of the diseased cavity; the first two most rapidly, in whom the gluteal bursa was relieved from pressure by the division of the strong gluteal tendon. The third case recovered the most slowly, in which the gluteal tendon was not divided, owing to its possible bearing on the disease being unsuspected at the time of the operation. The cases point to the gluteal tendon as the great factor in keeping up the disease of the bursa, and to its division (so as to take off all muscular tension) as a cardinal point to be aimed at in operating for its cure. Possibly, also, some of the cases of rapid recovery after the opening of supposed psoas abscess may have been instances of unrecognised disease of the trochanteric bursa. (‘ Lancet,’ October 8, 1870.) . } Hr. MacNab relates two cases of a similar affection. (‘ Lancet, November 12, 1870.)