383 DISEASES OE OVA1UES. region, was very movable. Examining after death, this movable tumour could not be felt through the abdominal wall. It turned out that this supposed separate tumour was a projection or prominence on the sur- face of the large tumour. The pedicle was twisted one complete turn ; this rotation it was that threw the apparently separate smaller tumour out of the way and embarrassed the diagnosis. The tumour was black from strangulation. (£ Dub. Quart. Journ.,’ Aug. 1870.) Mr. Lawson Tait relates a case in which death ensued from strangu- lation of an ovarian tumour. The patient, rnt. 48, suffered from stran- gulated femoral hernia; this was relieved by operation, but tympanitis and vomiting continued, the temperature remained at ioi°, and death took place four days after the operation. Autopsy.—A small ovarian tumour, consisting of two equal-sized cysts, one of which was totally gangrenous, the other partially so, was found in the right ilium. There was scarcely any peritonitis, a fact which had been diagnosed by the low temperature. The pedicle of the tumour was like an umbilical cord ; it had been twisted by four and a half revolutions of the tumour. Similar cases are related by Rokitansky, and two have been described by the reporter (see Pelvic hccmatocele).—R. B. Dr. Dickinson relates the following case of disease of kidney asso- ciated ivith ovarian abscess. A young woman died in St. George’s Hospital; had an abscess in the neighbourhood of the uterus shortly after labour ; profuse discharge of pus took place by vagina ; the legs became oedematous, and dropsy extended. Hectic set in; the lungs became affected ; frequent vomiting; urine lithatic and highly albumi- nous. She died at end of seven months. The right lung was hepatized; recent vegetations upon the mitral valve ; kidneys enlarged ; Malpighian bodies enlarged, and giving with iodine “ amyloid ” reaction. One ovary excavated by several abscesses. (‘ Pathological Trans.,’ 1869.) Points to be observed in ovariotomy are discussed by Dr. Lloyd Roberts (‘St. Andrew’s Medical Graduates’ Association’s Transactions,’ 1870). Dr. Wiltshire relates the following case:—A woman, set. 50, having an ovarian tumour, was seized suddenly after unusual exertion with acute pain and swelling of the tumour, with vomiting, and other sigus of shock. As her only probable rescue from death lay in the removal of the tumour, extirpation was performed. Acute peritonitis was found. The tumour contained a large quantity of blood. Parts of the tumour were very friable; the pedicle broke down under the ligature, and as the only means of commanding the stump it became necessary to trans- fix the right half of the uterus, and to tie it with a stout silk ligature. The patient perfectly recovered. (‘ Trans, of Pathol. Soc.,’ 1868.) Mr. Keith reports a second series of 50 cases of ovariotomy, the first series of 50 having been published in ‘ Lancet,’ 1867. The 100 opera- tions give 81 recoveries. There has been a gain of six per cent, in the last 50. No malignant tumour was met with until the 61st case; this patient recovered after a very severe operation, remained perfectly well for eight months, and died within a year from cancer of the peritoneum. The 65th case died on the thirty-third day after operation. She had recovered perfectly, and was about to leave, when after a day of much