493 CHOLERA. “ The history of cholera as an epidemic within the endemic area has yet to he written. The immediate channels through which it emanates require still to be traced with care; our knowledge is entirely deficient as to whether one breeding area supplies the pabulum for one geogra- phical distribution of invading cholera, and another for another, and as to whether exhaustion follows the throwing off an epidemic swarm m those localities from which we have reason to infer that it has issued. That cholera has a distinct provincial history as an epidemic, over and above the fact of its reproduction and decay in each year in relation to the endemic area, is certain. I know of no inquiry of greater import- ance than that which shall teach us whether absolute prevalence over certain divisions of the endemic area is invariably the prelude to epi- demic advance beyond the boundary limits, and whether the materies of an epidemic destined for invasion is accumulated from the year of the throwing off of the one swarm up to the date of the exit of the swarm succeeding. Manor emanations do probably occur during those intervals, and these, no doubt, contribute to the perpetuations from year to year of the cholera, which I have shown to exist in the shaded tract lying immediately beyond endemic limits. But the entire series of facts treated of in the first section teaches that there is held in reserve, over and above the cholera of such casual emanations, a body of material sufficient, after the multiplication of a very few years, to consti- tute the material of the widest spreading epidemic.” Pettenkofer* has given us a most able resume of his writings on cholera, and has published his latest views on the origin and spread of this disease. The paper is so important, and his peculiar views appear to be so little known to English readers, that we translate the summary of his conclusions almost in their entirety. General conclusions concerning the origin and spread of cholera.—(i) Cholera has its origin in a specific infective substance, which certain regions of India have produced for several centuries, as can be demon- strated historically. (2) In India cholera does not develope to the same extent in every year, nor in every region, nor in every season. There are regions where it is endemic, like enteric fever and ague in many parts of Europe, and where, like these diseases, it is at times developed into considerable epidemics. In most parts of India cholera cannot be said to be endemic, for it dies out and reappears as an epi- demic after long intervals, intercourse with places where the disease is raging giving rise, as in Europe, to these reappearances. (3) The facts of the local and seasonal frequency and spread of cholera in India, as well as its extension beyond the frontier, warrant, and even demand, the hypothesis, not only of the existence of a specific germ or infective matter communicable by contagion, but also of an actual determinative local and periodical substratum, without which the specific cholera germ cannot produce cholera in the human subject, since this disease appears to be caused only by a specific product of a fermentation between the cholera germ and the cholera substratum. (4) We may indicate the specific germ by the symbol x, the local and seasonal substratum by y, and the product generated from these—the peculiar cholera poison—by * ‘Ztschr. f. Biologie,’ v, p. 1.