313 EXSECTION OF NERVES. rectomy which ho helioves will bo found simple and sale. He has, as yet, performed the operation only once, viz. in 1862, in a case of facial spasm. In the cases of infra-orbital neuralgia, which have subsequently come under his care, he has followed Malgaigne’s plan of dividing the nerve and the lower wall of the orbit. This plan succeeds in most cases, without great drawbacks ; in three cases the operation-wound healed almost without suppuration. But he has also seen unpleasant results. In two cases the neurectomy was followed by purulent effu- sion into the antrum of Highmore, which lasted several weeks, and, in one patient, was attended with exfoliation of a portion of the lower wall of the orbit. In a third case there was prolonged suppuration in the orbit, with—apparently as a result of the retention of pus facial ery- sipelas, which nearly brought the patient, an aged man, to the grave. These mishaps led Bangenbeck to make application of an operation, which he had several times, in the course of three years, performed on the dead body. I11 some cases, indeed, the nerve was only partially cut through or not at all, a failure which he attributes to tbe varying conformation of the orbit; but, as a rule, the nerve was divided and the entire portion, lying in the infra-orbital canal, could be drawn out. In order not to miss the nerve at its entrance into the infra-orbital canal, the following anatomical conditions must be remembered. The inferior orbital or spheno-maxillary fissure, lying between the sharp edge of the orbital process of the superior maxilla and the orbital sur- face of the great wing of the sphenoid bone, passes outwards and for- wards, and ends six or seven lines behind the lower margin of the orbit, at the point where this passes into the outer wall formed by the frontal process of the malar bone. The infra-orbital nerve passes from the spheno-maxillary fissure into the posterior opening of the infra-orbital canal, which is situated about eleven lines behind the infra-orbital mar- gin of the malar bone; it then has a course obliquely inwards and for- wards to the infra-orbital process, where it makes its exit. If a tenotomy-knife be carried backwards and outwards, along the orbital surface of the frontal process of the malar bone and the great wing of the sphenoid bone, so that it shall never leave the surface of the bones, it necessarily reaches the inferior orbital fissure, behind the opening of the infra-orbital canal. The operation is performed in the following manner :—A strong Dieffenbach’s tenotomy-knife, the handle of which is held by the thumb and lore and middle fingers, like a pen, is thrust, with its point directed backwards and downwards, at an angle of about 6o°, close under the external, palpebral ligament, and is gradually pushed, in a direction backwards and downwards, along the outer wall of the orbit. Its en- trance into the inferior, orbital fissure is readily denoted by the cessation of resistance. This point having been reached, the edge of the knife is turned somewhat inwards towards the sharp edge of the orbital process of the superior maxilla, and, touching the latter, is carried forwards with a sawing motion. The infra-orbital nerve is then set free at its exit from the infra-orbital foramen. At this point an incision about half an inch long is made perpendicularly downwards from the lower border of the orbit. The nerve is then raised by means of a blunt hook