11 HEART. ** * Centralblatt,’ No. 29, 1870, recommends young frogs for injection, and the examination of their palatal mucous membrane, which he describes as being covered by a Favor of ciliated cells; then a network of granular cells uniting by means oftheir processes, which are usually three in number to each cell; and, finally, a layer of globular nucleated cells. The second of the above lavei can be injected from the blood-vessels, and he is disposed to believe, as it is too fine to receive the blood-corpuscles, probably forms the commencement of the lymphatic system. He thinks a similar plexus is present in the skin of Batrachians, and analogous intermediary vessels between the capillaries and lymphatics of the liver, thyroid body, and other parts. Henle * * * § considers no satisfactory evidence oi such a communication has been established. Eberthj- bas found that the vessels of the central organs of the nervous system are covered by a layer of epithelium, to which he has applied the term “ perithelium, and which can be brought into view by the application of nitrate ot silver as a staining agent. . . , Golubew £ describes fully the process of development oi the capillary vessels of the frog, which does not essentially differ from that given by older observers. Hyett § states that the umbilical artery increases m size m a peri- pheric direction, and that the placentary arteries present bulb-like dilatations at their point of division. Prof. Tomsa|[ describes non-medullated nerve-fibres passing to the capillaries of the papillae of the skin, around which they form plexuses with nodal points that correspond to the well-known nuclei from which fine branches dip into the capillary wall. They may be rendered visible by the action of chloride of gold and short maceration in acetic acid of five per cent. In regard to the regeneration of veins after the excision of a small portion of their length, M. Minkewitsch has shown that it never takes place, the collateral circulation being maintained by neighbouring- venous channels, some of Avhich attain so large a size, and are in such close contiguity to the original vessel,.as easily to give rise to a miscon- ception. Pranz Riegel, in an essay on the phenomena of the circulation in the smaller vessels,** describes the result of experiments made in Prof. Strieker’s laboratory at Vienna. Section of the sciatic nerve in the middle of the thigh in frogs produced no alteration, either in size of the vessels or the rapidity of the current* Irritation of the centric ex- tremity of the divided nerve caused acceleration of the current in ten minutes in the smaller arteries. As a general rule, contraction of the vessels and acceleration of the current proceed coincidently. No con- traction was ever observed in the veins. * ‘ Bericht fur Anatomia mid Physiologic,’ 1869, p. 70. f ‘ Virchow’s Archiv,’ xlix, p. 48. % ‘ Archiv f. Mikroskop. Anat.,’ v, p. 49. § * Pamphlet, Wien,’ 1869. || ‘ Centralbatt,’ 1869, p.562. IT ‘Virchow’s Archiv,’ xlviii, p. 409.