REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 422 was in labour with the first child. The pains continued active, and it seemed as il the child would soon be born ; but it was discovered that the head had not advanced, and the vaginal walls and perimeum were enormously distended by a rapidly increasing thrombus. The forceps was applied; on drawing, the right labium cracked through the mucous membrane, and a large clot flopped out with such violence as to be projected a distance of three feet. The labium was then freely incised, and the open spaces were stuffed with lint steeped in persulphate of iron, and the whole compressed by a T-bandage. No more blood was lost. Anaemia was met by generous diet. The vagina was injected on the third day with weak carbolic acid. The patient did well. (‘ Amer. Journ. of Obstet.,’ Nov., 1868.) Dr. v. Haselberg reports (‘Monatssch. f. Geburtsk.,’ 1869) a case of death from peritonitis consequent upon the injection of perchloride of iron into the uterine cavity. The case is so completely observed, and so important, that it calls for full reproduction. A puella publica, thirty-two years old, having had an abortion at six months some time before, came under treatment with anteflexion of the uterus to such an extent as to render the passage of the sound difficult. The vaginal por- tion was enlarged, and an easily bleeding ulcer existed on the anterior lip, extending into the cervical canal. The sore was touched with nitrate of silver. Profuse bleeding followed, partly from varicose vessels sur- rounding the sore, partly from the uterine cavity; and even after the ulcer was nearly healed by the use of alum-plugs profuse menorrhagia occurred. It was therefore determined to try injection of perchloride of iron, but it was only after repeated trials that at last the syringe was got beyond the point of flexion of the canal into the cavity of the uterus. Immediately after the injection the patient suffered no pain, but in the night a severe rigor, with consecutive sweating, occurred. This was repeated every night, notwithstanding the use of quinine. The patient quickly collapsed, even before signs of peritonitis set in. On the fifth night rigor was accompanied by severe vomiting, and immediately abdominal pain followed. In the following night, whilst vomiting, terrible pain suddenly came in the abdomen, whereupon she fainted and. died. Autopsy.—The abdomen was much distended. Being opened, a large quantity of stinking gas escaped. The intestines were united by recent exudation; the lower parts of the peritoneal cavity were filled with stinking pus of greyish colour. The source of this matter was discovered in a cyst of the right ovary, the size of a fist, whose walls had fallen in, and out of which, by pressure, matter of like ap- pearance could be squeezed through a small opening. On the upper surface of the cyst the opening of the right Fallopian tube was found. From this a large sound could be passed the whole length of the tube into the uterine cavity. The mucous membrane of the uterus was stained pitch-black, as if with ink, and the same colour extended along the right tuba to its outer extremity. The mucous membrane of the left tube was slate-grey. Pieces were taken from the uterus and the right tube, and were seen to be pitch-black for a depth of j to 1 millim. Chemical reaction showed in these parts a copious infiltration with iron.