24 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. regard them as doubtful. The most recent exposition of Pfliiger’s views are contained in his article on the termination of the nerves in the salivary glands,, in Strieker’s ‘Manual of Histology,’i, p. 433. D. Bidder* gives a careful description of the anatomical characters of the splanchnic nerves and coeliac ganglion. In the latter he finds bipolar cells, square or cubical cells, and more abundant than either of these multipolar cells, with at least twelve processes. There were also certain club-shaped cells, giving off a strong nerve-fibre from the cell- substance, and a system of fine fibres from the nucleus. Prom the re- sults of sections, accompanied by subsequent microscopical examination, to determine the side on which degeneration occurred, he is inclined to consider the fine plexus as the origin of the sympathetic fibres. TASTE. In regard to the organs oe sense, excluding the eye, to which a special section of this Retrospect is devoted, the principal papers that have been published are those of— Dr. R. L. Maddox,f who contributes an account of the minute ana- tomy of the fungiform papillae and terminal arrangement of the nerves in striped muscular tissue in the tongue of the common frog. He de- scribes the nerves to muscle as terminating outside the sarcolemma of the muscles in nuclear masses, from which fine fibres are again given off. LussanaJ seeks to explain the discrepancy that has existed between authors as to the gustatory sensibility of the lingualis nerve. He arrives at the conclusion—(1) that the lingual nerve is a nerve both of common sensation and of taste for the anterior part of the tongue ; (2) that the glosso-pharyngeal is the gustatory nerve of the posterior part of the tongue; (3) that the gustatory sensibility of the anterior part of the tongue is not dependent on the proper branches of the fifth but upon the fibres of the chorda tympani that are mingled with them. Schiff § endeavours to prove that the anterior part of the tongue is supplied by branches from the spheno-palatine ganglion. Yulpian,|| on the other hand, considers, from evidence drawn from the microscopical appearance of the lingual after evulsion of the facial, that the chorda tympani is destined for the submaxillary gland, and fur- nishes no branches to the tongue, and hence that it is not a gustatory nerve. Y. ‘Wyss^f very carefully and fully describes the cup-shaped organs of the tongue in man and various mammals. An analysis of his paper will be found in vol. i of the ‘ Academy.’ Dr. Keppler** has made a series of experiments with common salt, quinine, phosphoric acid, and glycerine, to determine the delicacy of * ‘Reichert und Dubois Revmond’s Archiv,’ 1S69, p. 472. f ‘Monthly Microscopical Journal,’ i, 1869, p. 1. + ‘ Archiv. d. Physiol. Norm, et Path., i, p. 20. § ‘Lo Sperimentale,’ 1870. II ‘Archiv de Physiol. Norm, et Pathol., ii, p. 209. ^ <Max Schultze’s Archiv fur Mikroskop. Anat.,’ June, 1870. ** ‘ Plliiger’s Archiv,’ ii, 449-