EE POUT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 1870, pp. 414—420; and ‘ Trans. Am. Oph. Soc., 187°. 310 the refraction of the eyes. He formulates the following conclu- sions :— (1) A sudden diminution of refraction is sometimes produced simul- taneously with diphtheritic paralysis of accommodation. (2) It probably occurs also in some cases of simple paralysis (un- complicated by mydriasis) of accommodation. (3) The refraction diminishes in exophthalmos produced by orbital tumours of rapid development. (4) The refraction increases in sub-acute attacks of glaucoma. (5) It sometimes increases rapidly during convalescence from severe disease. (6) Many myopes are able to diminish their refraction by partial closure of the eyelids. Dr. G-iraud-Teulon* has published an elaborate paper on the effect of astigmatism upon the inverted ophthalmoscopic image. He finds that in an emmetropic eye with its accommodation paralysed, what- ever the distance of the convex lens from the eye, the inverted image of the disc is always of the same shape and of the same apparent mag- nitude. In an eye that is simply ametropic (myopic or hypermetropic), the image of the disc increases or diminishes with the distance of the lens, but retains always the same outline, circular if the disc is cir- cular, oval if it is oval. In an astigmatic eye, increasing distance of the lens changes not only the apparent size, but also the shape of the image'of the disc. It will appear oval when the lens is close to the eye; circular when the lens is at its own focal length from the eye ; and oval, with its major axis in a direction at right angles to the first, when the distance of the lens exceeds its focal length. It is, therefore, easy to determine the existence of astigmatism, and the direction of the chief meridians (which will correspond with the axes of the appa- rent ellipse), by simply moving the inverting lens from a point near the cornea towards the spectator. Dr. Gfiraud-Teulon gives also formulae for determining, by this method, the degree of refraction in each meri- dian. Dr. Gr. Hayf has gone over nearly the same ground independently. Dr. Schirmer, of GreifswaldJ gives, as a contribution to the history of astigmatism and hypermetropia, an interesting account of the works of Sachs§ and of Purkinje,|| both of which appear to have escaped the notice of recent writers. The same author^" has studied the accom- modation as influenced by raised or depressed positions of the eye, and finds that the whole range of accommodation is somewhat nearer the eyes when they are cast down than when they are raised. Dr. William Thompson has published two papers** relating to the * ‘Annales d’Oculistique/ 1869, ii, p. 93. f ‘Trans. Am. Ophth. Soc.,’ 1870. t ‘ Annales d’Oculistique/ 1869, ii, p. 201. ... , _ . . • § ‘ Historia Naturalis duorum Leuccetliiopum auctoris ipsius et borons ejus, sonsuaci, l8||2<’ Beobachtungen und Versuche zur Physiologic der Sinne/ Berlin, 1825. f ‘Klinische Monatsblatter, 1869. n..pr *# ‘Am. Journal of Medical Sciences/ January, 1870, pp. 76—80; ibid., October,