125 CALCIFICATION OF BllAIN-CELLS, ETC. “ typhoid state ” may be due to diffuse minute embolisms of this kind, not only in the vessels of the brain, but in those ot other organs also. Virchow (‘Verkalkung abgestorbener Gehirnzellen,’ Archiv, 1, 304) refers to the fact that when he first (ib.,ix, 620) noticed the occurrence of calcified ganglion-cells in the brain, he was inclined to place them in the category of “ lime metastases ” (Kalkmetastasen), described by himself. Since then, however, he has examined a large number of cases, and thinks that the process belongs to that group ol phenomena which he has shown (‘Verhandl. der Berlin. Med. Gesellsch.,’ 1867, s. 233) to be one of the peculiarities of dead parts inside the human body. He finds, for instance, places, especially in the cortical substance, in which the cells with these processes, and sometimes fine nerve-fibres as well, are calcified. This is especially to be met with after traumatic injuries to the bones of the skull. Sometimes these places present atrophic depressions, so-called “ yellow plates,” as described by him in the obser- vations referred to; at another time nothing is visible to the naked eye. In the first case, after a peculiar degeneration of the brain in the form of red softening, the calcified elements are found within the softened part, more, however, towards the periphery; in thicker brown cicatrices they lie outside the cicatricial substance in the surrounding brain-matter, the cicatrix itself containing only dead cells. The second case, in which nothing is visible to the naked eye, is most interesting. Several times when traces of impressions or fissures were present on the outside of the skull, he examined the apparently uninjured portions of the con- volutions lying beneath, and found the ganglion-cells of the grey substance calcified; this, consequently, was a true necrosis from con- cussion. Forster, who first described them, saw them on the spinal cord; Virchow’s observations refer entirely to the brain. Meschede (‘Virch. Archiv,’ 1, 303) records the post-mortem appear- ances in a case of paralysis agitans. Davidson (‘Liverpool Med. and Sur. Eep.,’ 1869) publishes a case of nodding convulsions (salaam palsy) in a child nine months old, in which the whole trunk was jerked forward (emprosthotonos). After trying bromide of potassium, it was benefited by the saccharine carbonate of iron, but ended in epilepsy. Senator (‘Virch. Archiv,’ xlviii, 293) gives a case of fatal traumatic tetanus, with tables of the temperature and pulse, and an analysis of the urine during the twelve days. Wydler (ib., xlvii, 133) contributes a case of fatal hydrophobia in a healthy lad of seventeen, in whom the symptoms appeared five weeks after the bite ; the wound having healed quickly and soundly, but be- coming swollen and painful, with enlargement of the axillary glands. After death were found simply signs of strangulation. Other papers are— Robertson, “On Unilateral Convulsions,” &c. ‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ xv, 513. Haynes ‘‘Case of Unilateral Paralysis Agitans,” ib., 339. Jamieson, “ Spasm of the Group of Muscles supplied by the Musculo-spiral Nerve” (causing a peculiar spasmodic action 6f the muscles of the left arm in a blacksmith, act. 40), ib., xiv, 623. Dalton, “Two fatal