435 asphyxia. have been generated by decomposition, this, he says, is good. (The reporter, having made many close observations upon the mam question in this memoir, is disposed to dissent from Thomas and Schroeder, and to agree with Maschka. He has seen many cases in which children have cried and in whose lungs no air could afterwards be found ; but m these cases the children were premature or badly developed ; the lungs were not sufficiently developed to admit air, even on insufflation, without lacerating the tissues. Such children are not viable, although they may have cried; they could not breathe in the full sense of the term. It observed during life, the chest-walls fall in towards the spinal column during inspiratory efforts, showing clearly that the lungs do not expand. It is enough to enable a child to cry that it take in air to fill the trachea and larger bronchial tubes. Such an imperfect respiration will keep the heart beating for a time.—R. B.’ (‘ Deutsches Arch. f. klin. Med., 1869). Asphyxia in new-horn children.—Dr. C. ITandfield Jones records a successful case of treatment. The child was laid on its back; pressure was made on its abdomen, then the child was raised upright on its seat, and so on alternately. This alternate pushing of the diaphragm upwards and its sinking compresses and expands the space for the lungs. (‘The Practitioner,’ 1869.) Dr. ITaake, referring to experiments made in Bonn by Schroeder, gives three cases in which he sucked out inspired fluids from the air- tubes. In two the child recovered ; in the one that died section showed much meconium in the fine bronchi. A solid catheter was used. (‘Mon. f. Gfeburtsk.,’ 1869.) 5. Dr. Ivehrer (‘Arch. f. Gyniik.,’ 1870) describes the three forms of apnoe in new-horn children. In the asphyxia of the new-born the heart- pulsations are weak and long between. The pulsatory movements of the prsecordia small. In apnoe there is a more widely-spread undulation of the chest-wall; the heart-beat is strong, of ordinary frequency; that is, there is continuance of placental respiration. In compression of the hrain, the heart-beat is variable. The treatment in apnoe is expectant; cleansing of the mouth and air-passages. In asphyxia, the quick use of excitation of artificial inspiration after suck- ing out substance by catheter. In brain-compression, besides irritation of the skin, a moderate bleeding from the umbilical cord. Dr. Schwartz investigates the effect of pressure and irritation of the shin upon the fcetus (‘Arch. f. Gyniik.,’ 1870). Ludwig and Pranken- hauser believed that brain-pressure had a notable effect upon the heart’s action through the irritation of the vagus. He made experi- ments on pups. The result of pressure on brain so conducted as not to injure the brain-substance or cause meningeal hasmorrhage was in apnoeic subjects never to excite respiration, but to lower the heart’s action, the lowering being immediate and marked, and the recovery to former frequency quick on remitting the pressure. Skin-irritation, especially thermal and electric irritation of the cuta- neous nerves of the abdomen, quickens the actual tranquil and dyspnceic respiration movements immediately, and promotes in the asphyxiated return of inspiration. On the other hand, they are wholly without