363 MEDICINE. useful stop speculum, which is so shaped as to give the operator free access to every part of the eyeball. MM. Robert et Collin* have introduced an improved form of Huerteloup’s. leech, and a new strabometer. The cutting portion of the leech is fitted with a sort of piston, having a ring for the thumb, and with two lateral rings like those of a syringe, for the index and medius. The rotation of the blade is effected by simple pressure of the thumb ; and two blades aie supplied, one of which makes the ordinary circular, the other a semi- circular incision. The stem of the piston is furnished with a screw, for the admission of air, when it is desired to remove the cylinder. The strabometer consists of a light transverse bar, graduated in. millimetres from a central zero, and furnished above with, a handle, and below with a little saddle to rest on the nose. On this bar two vertical needles travel from the centre to the extremities, and are of sufficient length to descend to the margin of the lower lid.. They are moved by screws at the extremities of the bar. To use the instrument, the bar is placed horizontally, with its zero upon the centre of the nose, and each needle is so moved as to bisect its corresponding pupil. The degree of strabismus is then read off from the graduation. Dr. Liebreich has invented a pair of iris forceps that open in such a manuer that they can be introduced through a small wound, and will yet expand fully within the anterior chamber. They have been described and figured in nearly all ophthalmic journals, and may be obtained in England of Messrs. Weiss. 0) Medicine. In ophthalmic medicine no important advances have been made. Dr. Morandf records an interesting case of retinitis and hemiopia of the right eye, produced by the continued use of an imperfect Chassepot rifle, which discharged gas at its vent. The result of treatment is not stated. Dr. DaguenetJ has written upon the diagnosis of alcoholic amblyopia. He states that the dimness of vision usually shows itself in a marked degree quite suddenly—so as to be distinguished from the amblyopia of nerve atrophy, which comes on by imperceptible degrees. There is also defect of colour vision, sometimes producing incapacity to dis- tinguish gold from silver coins; and sometimes there will be strange appearances of movement in stationary objects. These symptoms, coupled with others of a more general character, and indicative of alcoholism, will usually clear up the diagnosis. The treatment consists in abstinence from alcohol; in the use, when indicated, of blisters, dry cupping, and cold baths; and in the administration of bromide of potassium, with iron and quinine. An epidemic of hemeralopia at Strasburg has been described by Poncet,§ who states that the disease is perfectly recognisable by the ophthalmoscope. The retinal arteries are small and pale, the veins dark, tortuous, and dilated, the papilla is congested, and this condition * * Annales d’Oculistique,’ 1869, i, p. 168. f ‘ Rec. et Mem. de Med. et de Chir. Militaires,’ 1869, 22, p. 60. % ‘ Annalcs d’Oculistique,’ 1869, ii, p. 136. § ‘Gaz. Ilebdom.,’ 1869, No. 29, p. 436.