496 11EPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. with the individual predisposition, cannot produce cases of cholera so long as y and s are absent, or are present in too small quantity. (io) In cholera statistics the single case and the single dwelling form the factors, in each place we must investigate, and as far as possible esta- blish, whether the appearance and spread of cholera should be designated epidemic or sporadic, i. e. whether z has arisen from y in the locality or m a Parfc of it, or whether the cases originate from z produced in another locality. (20) In its epidemic extension cholera has always shown an especial preference for alluvial soil and for low-lying river and drainage districts, whilst it has appeared only rarely as a local epidemic, and exceptionally in mountainous districts and near water- sheds. (21) Although the part which commerce has played in spread- ing cholera is so important and necessary, epidemically infected places have never extended themselves, as a rule, along the lines of railway, but have grouped themselves in quite another manner, probably in con- sequence of the unequal local and seasonal division and distribution of y. (22) All localities and places that have been attacked by an epide- mic of cholera, even those situated on the hills, are built on porous soil, readily permeable by water and air, such as alluvial earth. Wherever places are built upon a compact stone, impermeable or only very slightly permeable to air and water, there no cholera or only isolated cases of the disease have been observed, and never an epidemic. Superficial observations alone have furnished apparently opposite results. The cohesiveness of a soil must not be confounded with its porosity. There are rocks so exceedingly firm as to be employed for building-stone, yet so porous that, in the dry state, one third of their volume is taken up by air. The degree of porosity of different kinds of soil must be deter- mined. The porous strata in each locality where we wish to investigate cholera ought to be investigated in their extent and connection from the surface to the first water-bearing stratum, and as to their capacity for retaining and permitting water to pass through them. (23) In every country or district certain portions and places are seized early, and others later or not at all, without our being able to explain this difference by the varying periods at which the germ was imported, or by reference to individual predisposition. (24) The very dissimilar behaviour of neighbouring, and often closely adjacent, localities and places towards cholera, indicates most certainly that the state of and changes in the atmosphere, which always extend themselves more equa- bly over large tracts of country than cholera itself, cannot possibly of themselves have any other influence than as predisposing causes; and that, much more, the state of and changes in the atmosphere are only so far concerned in the production of the cholera-poison that they act upon a peculiarly adapted soil, and thus favour the formation of y. (2 •■5) The extension of local epidemics in districts has invariably indi- cated that, along with the presence of the cholera-germ, no circumstance exerts a greater influence upon the “grouped” and simultaneous appearance of the epidemic in several places than the position of these in similar river and drainage districts. These facts have led to a know- ledge of the influence of the relations of ground-water, which, the pre- sence of the germ and the peculiar condition of the soil being given.