503 TYPHUS FEVER. infection may be carried out. Houses are often now very inefficiently disinfected for the lack of a proper staff of persons to carry out the work. “ 12. There should be arrangements by which articles of clothing, bedding, &c., destroyed by order of the Medical Officers of Health, may either be replaced or paid for. At times when the ‘ Diseases Preven- tion Act’ is not in operation by order of the Privy Council no such arrangement can be made. “ 13. During the disinfection of a house or apartment, or when the sick person cannot be removed, it is necessary to remove the healthy ; for this there should be one or more houses of refuge provided, in which poor families may be temporarily lodged, and with means of disinfect- ing the persons and clothing of those removed. A house of refuge is a thing at the present time utterly unknown to the sanitary arrange- ments of the metropolis. “ 14. The ‘Diseases Prevention Act’ should be put into operation by order of the Privy Council on auy severe outbreak of scarlet fever in London, or at times when, from season or cyclical period, it is probable that the disease will spread extensively. Practically, this otherwise invaluable Act is a dead letter, except on certain occasions when an unusual disease prevails in the country, such as an epidemic of cholera. “ 15. The services of public nurses to superintend the administra- tion of nourishment and medicine, and the disinfection of discharges, would be invaluable. One bad case of scarlet fever furnishes quite occupation enough for one woman. “ 16. The Medical Officers of Health desire to put in force the lodg- ing-house clauses of the Sanitary Act, 1866, sect. 35, which, by re- stricting the number of inmates, and by enforcing periodic cleansing of the homes of the poor, might in some degree limit zymotic disease.” Diarrhoea. Dr. Crewe,* of Leicester, contends that diarrhoea is not a true zymo- tic disease, and hence that it is not a preventible disease, in the ordi- nary sense of that term. Typhus Fever. Dr. J. B. Eussellf gives a number of interesting facts illustrative of the propagation. of this disease, from which he concludes—(1) That where attention is paid to personal and general cleanliness typhus does not carry far, so to speak, through the atmosphere, and is not portable; (2) close approach to, and contact with, the infected individual and his dirty belongings lead with great certainty, even under the best sanitary circumstances, and in healthy and well-fed people, to an attack at the end of about four weeks in the majority of cases, but not in a few until the lapse even of some months ; (3) that individual insusceptibility does not exist, except that which is conferred by a previous attack. He adds : “ As an interesting contrast with our experience of typhus, I may say that no case of enteric fever has ever arisen, either among the staff * ‘Rep. or the Sanitary Condition of Leicester for 1869.’ Pamphlet f ‘ Rep. of the Glasgow Fever Hosp.,’ 1870. Pamphlet.