88 REPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 1866, at the age of sixty years, from sleeplessness and pain in the epi- gastrium, with loss of appetite, sickness, and gradually increasing anaemia, without emaciation. A little later the fingers of the right hand began to be painful, and became hard and insensible. The pain soon subsided, but the scleriasis spread to the hand and forearm, with loss of motion in the joints, anaesthesia, and thickening of the skin, while the other tissues wasted. At the same time a dark colour gra- dually invaded the hands, arms, and face, continuous in some places, and maculated in others; and severe pains, “like those of zona” (neu- ralgic), were felt in the thorax and other parts. In April, 1867, the scleriasis had spread to the trunk, the melasma had increased, and anaemia, anorexia, and insomnia were extreme. No sweat was secreted, and the patient’s restlessness had become most distressing. All this time there were no signs of pyrexia, and the internal organs were appa- rently healthy. In July the use of sulphur baths restored portions of the sclerodermic parts to their normal character, and brought on per- spiration. With the advancing anaemia and melasma severe pains in the back, vomiting, salivation, albuminuria, and diarrhoea successively appeared, and death followed in the middle of September, after about eleven months’ illness. At the autopsy the body was not emaciated ; the face, arms, and trunk were of a dark “ yellow-brown” colour, in spots or in patches, and continuous; the mucous membrane of the mouth was also slightly coloured. The scleriasis chiefly affected the hands, forearms, and thighs. There was evidence of recent right pleurisy, bronchitis, and limited pneumonia ; the lungs very free from pigment; the heart dilated, and in a state of fatty degeneration; fluid in the pericardium and perito- neum ; stomach dilated. Both supra-renal capsules normal in every respect; brain, kidneys, &c., practically healthy (the spinal cord appears to have been forgotten). The solar plexus and sympathetic generally were examined microscopically, as were also the supra-renal capsules, and found apparently quite healthy. An elaborate microscopical examination of the skin showed that the pigment was deposited partly in the rete mu cosum, but chiefly in the papillary layer of the cutis,* either in the normal cells of these tissues or in separate masses. It contained no iron, nor was it deposited according to the distribution of the capillaries. At one place the papillae were much hypertrophied, and here, as well as in other dark spots, there were numerous birds’-nest growths (Zwiebelartige Glebilde) found in the deeper layers of the epidermis, as well as horny cells like those of the superficial layer. No account of the sebaceous follicles or sudariparous glands is given. In the skin affected with scleriasis all that could be discovered was hypertrophy of the normal fibrous tissue of the corium, with atrophy of the subjacent fat. The elastic fibres of the cutis were somewhat increased in number, and its muscular fibres very much so. In a lengthy discussion on the case the author, while admitting that * Cf. the account given by Rindfleisch, quoted in a review of Neumann’s “ Ilautkrank- heiten” (‘ Brit. For. Med.-Chir. Rev.,’ June, 1870.)