REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 428 place, which the midwife reduced next day. Three days later general convulsions with loss of consciousness recurred. These lasted two hours; consciousness returned, but aphasia remained. There was no diflerence in the pupils, both acted under light; pulse 90; tempera- ture 38-2. The tongue could not be projected through the teeth. Lochia present; not offensive. No albumen in urine; no oedema ; no pain. Next day, suddenly, the convulsions were repeated, and were more marked on the right side of the face. Loss of consciousness com- plete. With increase of temperature sopor set in, and in the night, the temperature having risen to 4i‘2, death followed. The calvarium had nowhere grown to the dura mater. The dura mater showed hyperaemia and plentiful Pacchionian granulations. The dura mater was closely adherent, especially on the right, with the arach- noid and the brain substances, so that with the membrane small shreds of brain were torn away. The arachnoid on the right was opaque, but in most parts separable from the brain; on the left the fissures of Rolando and Sylvius were filled with a purulent yellowish-white mass. On the summit of the frontal lobe was a scar-like contraction of the arachnoid. The white substance was very hypertemic. In the left hemisphere of the cerebrum, outside and above the corpus striatum, was a cavity the size of an almond, containing grey pus-like matter. The cyst extended to the scar-like depression of the arachnoid. No disease was observed in other parts of the body. It cannot be doubted that the cyst and scar were the residua of two haemorrhagic effusions dating from the first eclamptic fit; the locality of them explained the aphasia. The psychical excitement attending the prolapsus uteri was the probable cause of the tissues in the neighbourhood of the cyst giving way. (‘Monatschr. f. Gteburtsk.,’ June, 1869.) Dr. 0. Spiegelberg has submitted to experiment the theory of Fre- richs, which assigns to ammonia, as the result of decomposition of urea in the blood, the production of convulsions. A primipara was seized with convulsions during pregnancy. The urine was loaded with albu- men. Blood was drawn twice. After labour the patient recovered. The blood was received in two vessels, and quickly secured against air. One specimen was examined for ammonia, the other for urea. The first gave, by Kiihne and Strauch’s apparatus, distinct evidence of ammonia. A quantitative analysis was not made. The other gave o'o$$ per cent, of urea. The urine gave 478 per cent, of albumen, and r 1 per cent, of urea. There was, then, excess of ammonia and of urea in the blood, and diminution of urea in the urine. To this observation in the human subject Spiegelberg adds some experiments made on dogs, to determine whether ammonia has the pro- perty of causing convulsion and coma when injected into the blood. Oppolzer had stated that carbonate of ammonia only acted as an irritant producing convulsions, not coma; whilst Petroft had confirmed the theory of Prerichs, that it was the cause of both. Spiegelberg’s experi- ments consisted in throwing solutions of carbonate ot ammonia into veins and arteries of dogs. They were four in number. The results went uniformly to prove the similarity of the symptoms, convulsive and comatose, with those observed in the human subject m urasmia. He