233 SKIN-GRAFTING. transplanted had become attached and vitalised, yet, owing to the state of the patient’s health, it had remained stationary, and gave no sign ot increase. (£ Lancet,’ &c., Nov. 19, 1870.) In the ‘Lancet’ for Nov. 12 it is stated that Mr. Pollock s plan, m a case noted, was to take about twelve portions of skm from the front ot the forearm with dressing-forceps and scissors, and place them m three horizontal rows on the ulcer, each row being held in position by a senarate piece of strapping. They were oat-shaped, from two to three lines in length, and involved the entire depth of the skin, their removal exposing in some instances the fascia of the forearm. In the course ot some clinical remarks Mr. Pollock said that in cases of burns tie transplantation should be effected as soon as the granulations assume a healthy appearance. In the course of two or three days the layei ot superficial epithelium, which has nearly fulfilled its function, and would, in the ordinary course, soon have been shed, is frequently cast off; in a few days more, beneath the surface thus laid bare, the layer of living cells, a network of vessels can be seen with the aid of a two-inch lens, and, shortly afterwards, a pale film begins to spread from the circum- ference. In the course of a few weeks, after the first appearance of the film, the new skin becomes endowed with sensation. In that which was propagated from the skin of the negro, pigment began to be developed at about the same date, as shown by the spread of a change of colour in a gradually increasing surface of crescentic form. The whole process, he believes, to be one of simple cell-growth. The practical gain of the operation is the quickness with which healing occurs, and the absence of tendency to contraction of the cicatrix. Mr. Lawson read a paper before the Clinical Society on this subject. In one case a large surface was healed rapidly by transplanting a piece of skin the size of a fourpenny piece. He formed a new eyelid for a patient suffering from complete ectropion, by liberating the lid and then transplanting, on to the raw surface, a piece of skin, the size of a three- penny piece, at the end of four days, and two days later a piece the size of a fourpenny piece. Mr. Lawson’s conclusions are—that the surface must be healthy; that only the skin, without any fat adhering, should be grafted; that the portion should be accurately applied ; and that it should bekept inposition without intermission, being lightly covered with a layer of lint, over that a small compress of cotton-wool and a bandage, for the purpose of maintaining its warmth, and thus to assist in retain- ing its vitality until it has established its new life. (‘Lancet,’ &c., Nov. 19, 1870.) Mr. David Piddes writes that it is merely necessary to shave or scrape off the epidermic scales from the convex parts of the extremities, and place them on the healthy granulations. This can best be done by sweeping the scales off the knife with a camel’s-kair brush. After securing them in situ for three or four days by means of common adhesive plaster, the granulations on which the epidermic scales were placed assume a glazed bluish appearance, which gradually grows into skiu, and meets the nearest edge of the healiug ulcer, which edge shoots out and meets the newly formed skin on the granulations. (‘ Lancet,’ Dec. 17, 1870.) Mr. Woodman has employed Prof. Lister’s non-adhesive lac plaster