IlEPOItT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 500 ravages in this country. The lamentable history of this disease only serves to show how helpless sanitary authorities seem to be in coping with it, and. the need of a thorough reform in our sanitary legislation. The following important document* was published: “ Memorandum by the Medical Officers of Health of the Metropolis on the Measures necessary for arresting the spread of Scarlet Fever. ‘‘The Eegistrar-General, in his Weekly Eeturn for Sept. 25, 1869, whilst enumerating the deaths from scarlet fever, says that ‘ the Medical Officers of Health will no doubt endeavour to suggest some practical means of preventing its further extension.’ “ The Association of Medical Officers of Health beg, in reply, to for- ward to the Eegistrar-General the following memorandum: “ It is quite possible to check scarlet fever, if adequate means be taken to destroy the emanations of the sick, so that they shall not infect the healthy. For this purpose the sick must be separated, either by putting them into rooms apart, or by sending them out to a sick house, or, which is better, by removing the healthy to another house. The infecting matter of the disease resides in the excretions of the mouth, throat, and lungs, of the bowels and kidneys, of the skin, and of the suppurating surfaces common towards the close of the disease. Disinfection should be applied assiduously to the mouth, nose, and throat, as each case may require, by gargling, swabbing, or syringing with a teaspoonful of Condy’s Fluid to a pint of water ; the excreta of the bowels and kidneys should be well dosed with strong carbolic acid before they leave the bedside; the air of the sick room should be occa- sionally freshened by dispersing Condy’s Fluid (diluted as above) by means of a vaporizer; and the doorway should be hung with a sheet well sprinkled with carbolic acid, so that there may be no mixing of tainted air with that of the body of the house. It can do no harm to oil the skin during the height of the fever, but what is of real conse- quence is the persevering use of warm soapy baths so soon as the patient can take them, and through the convalescence till the skin has done peeling and the throat and nose are healed. All handkerchiefs, towels, and linen, before leaving the1 room, should be steeped in boiling water containing a teaspoonful of solution of chloride of soda, or of Condy’s liquid, to a pint; and when the disease is over, the bedding and clothing of the patient and his attendants, all floors, walls, and ceilings, and the surface of all furniture on which infectious matters may have settled, should be scraped, or cleaned with a disinfectant, and fumigated. Moreover, disinfecting fluids (as carbolic acid) should be poured freely, after the slops from the sick room, into the closets, sinks, drains, and sewers, and into every place around the house where decay- ing organic matter can be harboured. “ The persons attending on the sick should wear glazed or smooth dresses by preference; they should often wash their hands, especially before eating, and should mix as little as possible with the family. “ For fumigating infected rooms and their contents nothing is better * 1 Registrar-Gen.’s Weekly Return ’ for Nov. 6, 1869, p. 383.