o56 REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. terror, and it would be long before he regained bis composure. Even when awalte, and in the daytime, a sudden noise in the house or street would startle him and make him exclaim, while shaking with fear, ‘ What’s that ?’ “ On consulting with the attending physician, I stated my opinion to be that all the symptoms were due to perverted action of the reflex nervous system, and that the diseased eye was the exciting cause of all this perturbation. I urged the immediate abscission of the front of the globe, since the patient had previously refused to have the entire ball removed. He smiled at what seemed to him the absurdity of my opinion. He concurred with me that the eye was a hideous deformity, and that the patient could endure an operation for its removal, and Avith that view he would not oppose an operation as an experiment, to confirm or subvert my opinion. Accordingly, chloroform was procured, and the patient anaesthetized. A liberal abscission Avas made according to the method of Mr. Critchett, of London. “ All perverted nervous action ceased after the operation. During the first night the sleep was refreshing, and but little disturbed. Iu a week after removal of sutures the patient came to my office to show himself, haviug travelled eight miles. All local irritation had subsided, and an excellent stump existed for the support of an artificial eye. He calls himself a well man. “ The nervous phenomena of this case are exceedingly interesting. Erom the appearance presented by the eye, it was evident, as aforesaid, that the chief violence of the blow was expended upon the superior portion of the ciliary region of the eyeball, and not upon the brow. The iris and ciliary region, and to some extent the cornea, are supplied by filaments of distribution from the ophthalmic or ciliary ganglion of the great sympathetic nerve, situated on the outer aspect of the optic nerve in the posterior chamber of the orbit. A few of the ciliary nerves are derived from the naso-ciliary nerve. This ganglion serves as a medium of connection between the trifacial (branches of Avhich are largely supplied to the cornea) and the oculo-motor, or third pair. The nasal nerve is a branch of the frontal, and, besides its ciliary relations, is also joined by a filament of the sympathetic. “ These nervous connections will account for the irritation about the nose, the head pains, and the cerebral symptoms, while the spasms and other constitutional disturbances were doubtless caused by irritation of terminal branches of the great sympathetic nerve.” Prof. Alfred Graefe * describes a very curious succession of spasmodic affections of various ocular muscles. The patient was a girl, 18 years of age, who, in 1867, had been under treatment for trachomatous con- junctivitis of both eyes. Her health was then fairly good, but she had suffered during childhood from scarlet fever, followed by renal dropsy^ and also from ansemia and scrofulous affections. In the spring of 1868 she sought advice for a spasmodic closure of the left eye, which had commenced duriug the Avinter, and had for eight Aveeks been vainly treated by various internal and external means, including electricity. The affection was a spasm of the eyelids, due entirely to the orbicularis, * ‘Arch. f. 0.,’ xvi, 1, p. 90.