27 RESPIRATION. the skin also give off very different amounts of watery vapour, so that if that evaporating from the cheeks he estimated at 100, that from the forehead may be taken at 96, from the volar surface of the hand at 90, from the scapular region at 64, from the infra-clavicular region at 43, and from the forearm 45. The presence of the epidermis renders the evaporation of water from the surface from 60 to 80 times less than it would be were there no hindrance to the process of evaporation from the whole surface of the body. M. Bachl * * * § ** maintains that if any, only the very smallest trace of ammonia is eliminated by the lungs, and it is at all events quite insufficient to render it necessary to calculate it in any experiments on the balance of the animal economy. The investigations conducted by M. Berns,f on the influence exerted by different kinds of gases on the respiration, appear to show that it is the carbonic acid in the air contained in the air-cells of the lungs that constitutes the real excitant to the extremities of the vagus nerve. 1ST. 0! Bernsteinf finds that when two portions of blood containing very different proportions of carbonic acid and oxygen are retained on oppo- site sides of a thin septum for five to seven and a half hours, no notice- able passage of oxygen occurs from the most highly oxygenized to the other, but a small quantity of carbonic acid diffuses from the most highly carbonized to the opposite. Gr. v. Liebig§ finds that variation in the pressure of the atmosphere, cceteris paribus, produces little effect on the respiratory process as a whole, the greater number of respirations made under ordinary pressure being exactly compensated for by their greater depth under increased pressure. Dr. Bansome|| shows that in ordinary respiration about o‘2 of a gramme or 3 grains of organic matter is given off from a man’s lungs in twenty-four hours, and a much larger proportion in diphtheria and other diseases. A series of experiments undertaken by Dr. Lombard,^ with the aid of extremely delicate thermometric apparatus, enabling him to register a variation of temperature not exceeding i-2oooth of a degree Centi- grade, leads him to draw the general conclusion that in those animals in which the skin takes an active part in the elimination of water, the blood, as it traverses the lungs, undergoes, under ordinary circumstances, little or no refrigeration. J. Muller* # has recently undertaken, at Ludwig’s suggestion, an ex- perimental investigation upon the exchange of gases taking place in the lungs. M. Andral ft shows that the temperature of the axilla of the newly born child is above that of the adult, the excess being probably derived from the uterus. During the first half hour it falls below the inferior limit of the temperature of the adult, partly, perhaps, because the respi- * ‘Zeitschrift fur Biologie,’ v, p. 61. f ‘Nederland’s Archiv,’ v, p. 179. J ‘ Berichte der Sachs Gesell. d. Wiss. Math. Phys. Class.,’ 1870, p. 124.. § ‘ Zeitschrift fur Biologie,’ v, Heft i, p. 1. || ‘Journal of Anatomy,’ iv, 1870, p. 211. TT ‘Archives dc Physiologie,’ ii, p. 1, 1869. ** ‘ Arbeit aus der Physiolog. Institut zu Leipzig.’ ft ‘Comptes ltendus,’ 1870, i, p. 825.