6 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. to mucin than to the albuminous compounds. The formation of the nucleus may, therefore, be due to the mechanical separation of these two materials. l)r. Norris* * * § has written an interesting paper on the laws and prin- ciples concerned in the aggregation of blood-corpuscles both within and without the vessels, in which it is ingeniously shown that when discs of cork similar in shape to the blood-corpuscles are accu- rately poised in water, they have a tendency to run together by their flat surfaces, and thus to form rouleaux resembling those of coagulated blood. Various conditions interfere with or modify this tendenc}r. MM. Bechamp and Estorf from their experiments have arrived at the extraordinary conclusions that the globules of blood are aggregates of microzymas ; that they can evolve into chaplets of grains, bacterias, bacteridia, &c.; that they behave like ferments, and that the micro- zymas of the corpuscles are able to generate cellules resembling those of the leucocytes or white corpuscles of the blood and other smaller cells more closely resembling globules. Prof. MantegazzaJ attributes the coagulation of the blood to the discharge of fibrino-plastin from the white corpuscles, which, combining with the fibrinogen of the plasma, produces fibrin. In support of this theory he insists on the complete coincidence of the power of coagula- tion with the presence of white blood- or lymph-corpuscles, and on the fibrino-plastic properties of tissues such as the cornea, which abound in cells similar to these corpuscles. Grriinhagen finds that when blood is allowed to flow into from ten to twenty times its volume of glycerin with constant stirring no fibrin is formed. Klein § has observed the division of the white corpuscles of the blood in the triton, and which is still more important, in man, by maintain- ing the freshly drawn blood at a proper temperature (70°—8o° E. for the triton, and ioo° E. for man). Strieker and Norris || have also often seen the colourless corpuscles in the inflamed tongue of frogs become first fissured and then divided into two. In reference to the escape of the white corpuscles from the capil- laries Mr. Koster supports the original statements of Addison and Cohnheim, and describes the colourless blood-cells as penetrat- ing into and soon through the wall of the vessels when inflamma- tion is established. Axel Key,** by throwing cinnabar into the blood, and exciting inflammation in the kidneys, arrives at the conclusion that the white corpuscles escape from the vessels even when very slight irritation is present, but that they by no means necessarily then form pus, and in these views Richardson ft fully coincides. Dr. * ‘ Proceed. Roy. Soc.,’ 1869, xvii, p. 42 9. f ‘ Comptes Rendus,’ 1869, pp. 408, 466, and 1870, i, p. 263. X ‘Ann. di Cliim.,’ July, 1869. § ‘ Centralblatt,’ No. 2, 1870. j| ‘ Studien aus dem Institut fur Experim. Pathol, zu Wien.’ «5[ ‘ Nederlandsch Archief,’ iii, 1868 ; and Humphry and Turner’s 1 Journal of Anat.,’ 1869, p. 246. ** ‘ Med. Times and Gazette,’ May, 1869. ft 1 American Journal of Medical Sciences,’ 1870, p. 56.