200 REPORT ON SURGERY. Perforated zinc.—Prof. Cleland has found a roll of perforated zinc an extremely convenient thing to have at hand in surgical practice. In many cases it will replace the use of pasteboard and wooden splints. In dressing stumps he has used it with advantage. He takes a strip, about hall a yard long, and about the breadth of the stump, and folds it like a pair of sugar-tongs; then having arranged the proper pads in front and behind, and leaving the lips of the wound bare, or only slightly covered, he slips on the zinc, so as to have one end in front and the other behind the stump, while the folded part is allowed to project some inches beyond it, and, lastly, he secures the whole with a bandage. The zinc acts as a protection, and causes the pressure of the bandage to act in the desired directions. The surface of the wound can often be looked at and cleaned, without disturbing the bandage, by simply dividing the prominent fold of the zinc, turning the two parts a little back, and replacing them after cleaning the wound. (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ July 30,‘1870.) Ligature of arteries on the antiseptic plan.—In the ‘ Lancet,’ and ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ April 31, 1869, is a communication from Mr. Joseph Lister. After stating his conviction that ligature is the safest and best means of arresting the flow of blood through an artery, he passes on to the evils attendant on ligature, and then to the merits of the antiseptic plan. One point brought out by this is, that a portion of dead tissue is not necessarily thrown off by suppuration, but, unless altered by putrefaction, or imbued with stimulating salts (artificially), serves as pabulum for the surrounding living parts, which remove it by a sure process of absorption. Hence the death of a part of the external coat (of an artery) included in a ligature, does not necessarily render it a cause of suppuration. The carotid artery of a horse, close to its origin, was tied with a ligature of pure silk steeped in a solution of carbolic acid, the ends of the silk cut off and the wound treated “ anti- septically.” After six weeks the horse was killed and the parts examined. A fine clot was found on the cardiac side, but none on the distal side. Under these circumstances had the ligature been applied in the usual way, suppuration would have occurred, and haemorrhage would have ensued from the distal end. As it was, however, no suppu- ration occurred, and no weakening of the vessel. The cul de sac showed some irregularity, in consequence of puckering of the two coats, but the surface appeared completely cicatrised, and presented the same character as the natural lining membrane of the vessel; and the liga- ture, which seemed as yet unaltered, was found lying in a bed of firm tissue, that within the noose being apparently a new formation in place of the portion of external coat killed by the ligature; while, externally, the constriction necessarily caused in the first instance by the operation, had been filled in by a similar compact structure. Mr. Lister tried this plan on the human subject. The patient was a woman, tet. 51, suffering from aneurism of the upper part of the femoral. Ligature of the external iliac was performed; a silk thread, as in the last case, was used, except that it had been steeped for two hours in undiluted liquid carbolic acid instead of a watery solution, to make sure