509 UTILIZATION OF SEWAGE. occur generally in decomposing fluids, and as regards the more minute bodies above mentioned their nature is not at present accurately known. It is true M. Ravenel informed us that Dr. Hallier raised from the blood and bile of diseased animals an organism which he calls Coniothecium stilesiamm, of which he says, “ Perhaps you may succeed in finding out the places where the coniothecium grows in nature. At all events it is a parasitic fungus growing on plants, and to be looked for in the food of the wild bullocks. We feel very thankful to Dr. Billings and his colleagues for their careful investigation, as it is highly important that attention should not be drawn off from more rational views by mere fanciful notions. The following observations are worthy of attention :—“It seems probable, in view of the results of the above experiments, that some of the bacteria and micrococcus germs are really fungoid in character, and capable of development into higher forms. If the above expressed view of the nature of these bodies be probable, the results of the culture experiments of the fluid of disease and healthy animals can readily he understood. In many animals, whether healthy or diseased, there are no fungus germs in the blood. We have kept vacuum tubes of blood for four months, and at the end of that time the contents were perfectly normal. In other animals there are probably germs in the blood during "life, as shown by the fact that in vacuum tubes filled from them the blood putrefied, and the usual myco- derms developed. But that these germs can develope and multiply without dead organic material as a pabulum is very doubtful. As was stated at the beginning, our object was to determine the presence and, as far as possible, the nature of these germs. The query as to the connection between them and disease, whether they should be consi- dered as specific causes of the disease, or as carriers of contagion, or as the signs of the destruction of vitality of a part of the fluid or tissues in which they are found, said destruction being due to some other cause, is one of great interest, for the answering of which, however, the lancet and the injection tube will probably be far more efficacious than the microscope and culture apparatus.” Air and Rain-water. The Inspector* under the Alkali Act, 1863, in his ‘Annual Report,’ give some interesting and copious details showing the results of his analyses of air and of rain-water in various country and urban dis- tricts. These tabular details scarcely admit of useful abstraction. They are, however, well worthy of study by those interested in the question of atmospheric pollution by manufacturing industries. Utilization of Sewage. Prof. Corfieldf publishes in a separate form a digest of facts relating to the treatment and utilization of sewage, prepared, as he says, for the Committee of the British Association. The book consists in main of a compilation from well-known blue books, &c., interspersed with some of the author’s own opinions. It is, in fact, a digest of the ‘ Reports of * ‘ Sixth Ann. Rep. for 1869.’ Blue book. f ‘ Digest of Facts,’ &c. Macmillan, [870.