REPORT ON SURGERY. BY WAEEJST TAY, F.E.C.S., ASSISTANT-SURGEON TO THE LONDON HOSPITAL. Anesthetics. — Mr. Fox writes on the use of nitrous oxide with Coxeter’s liquid gas. A bottle containing one hundred gallons of gas in the liquid state is only twelve inches long, three and a quarter inches in diameter, and weighs nine pounds one ounce. Smaller ones are made. (‘Lancet,’ April 2 and 9, 1870.) Chloral has been used in a great variety of cases, too numerous to mention here, in order to procure sleep and allay irritation. In one case, under the care of Dr. Noir (of Brionde), amputation of the leg was performed under its influence, but such symptoms were produced as not to be encouraging for the future. The patient was a man aged 64, suffering from a tumour of the leg. As a preliminary measure, a dose of 60 grains was given him at 8 in the morning. In an hour he had defective vision and made frequent attempts at vomiting; after this came violent excitement. He then fell asleep and remained so for an hour and a half. He awoke refreshed and hungry. Two days later 75 grains were given him. He was uncomfortable for two hours, when he fell asleep and underwent amputation without feeling it. After being placed in bed he went into a state of alarming coma for one hour; after which, on waking, he was seized with violent delirium and severe vomiting. After seven hours he passed into a state of extreme prostration, and then recovered his senses; but did not recollect any- thing of what had passed. The next day all the ill effects had passed off. Dr. Noir remarks that the delirium, prostration, and coma were so alarming that it would be imprudent to use chloral for operations if further experience shows similar symptoms. There could be no doubt that the anaesthesia was complete. (Quoted in the ‘Lancet,’ Jan. 1, 1870 ; from ‘ Gaz. des Hopitaux,’ Dec. 3, 1869.) A new antiseptic (chloralum).—Mr. J. Gamgee has called atten- tion to the advantages which the hydrated chloride of aluminium possesses as a general antiseptic. It is not poisonous like chloride of zinc, not offensive like carbolic acid, does not evolve unpleasant fumes does not stain like the permanganates, and is more convenient than sulphurous acid. He calls it chloralum. For ordinary disinfecting purposes solutions varying from 1006 to 1010 sp. gr. are quite strong; enough. (‘Lancet,’ 1870, Sept. 3, p.354, &c.) 13