14 0 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Lauro (ib., iii, p. 41) also showed to the Societe ties Sciences Medicales membranes of the same kind, measuring about a centimetre across the diameter of the primary trunk, and showing under the microscope a vaguely llbrillated network, in which leucocytes and mucous globules were irregularly imbedded. Their expulsion was generally preceded by an attack of dyspntea, and accompanied by slight haemoptysis. Auscultation revealed numerous small subcrepitant rkles over the lower two thirds of the right lung; nothing abnormal in the left. Lebert (‘Berk klin. Woch.,’ 1869, 53, &c.) gives,in a long paper on the etiology of catarrh of the respiratory organs, a statistical collec- tion of the cases which had come under his notice from 1853 to 1859 at Zurich, and from i860 to 1867 at Breslau. It includes 25,531 cases, of which 6904 occurred in the hospital at Zurich, 4068 in that at Breslau, and 14,559 among the out-patients of the latter place. lie holds that the irritation set up by the inhalation of particles of dust plays no part in acute idiopathic catarrh, but is of importance in the chronic affection and the subsequent lung-changes. From the same point of view he considers the influence exercised by habitual straining of the voice on the two affections. Fitz (! Yirch. Arch.,’ li, 123), in a short and valuable paper, gives the result of careful microscopic examination of two cases of bronchiec- tasis. He found the cartilage 'with great increase of its cells and nume- rous lines of fibro-cellular vascular tissue running through it. The intercellular substance was not fibrillated or otherwise changed, except when the whole tissue was thus destroyed and replaced by another. In the mucous membrane the mucous glands were surrounded by a kind of granulation-tissue, and in some parts were so compressed by it that they, in common with the epithelium, had become atrophied, so as to leave the dilated bronchi lined only by a vascular corium. Greenhow, “ On Chronic Bronchitis, especially in connection with Gout, Emphysema, and Diseases of the Heart,” London, 1869. Id., “Pulmonary Emphysema in con- nection with Gout,” ‘Lancet,’ 1869,1,455. Fleming, “Chronic Bronchitis with dilated Heart,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869,1,541. Charrier, “Note sur la Bronchite chronique et son traitement,” ‘ Bull. Gen. de Therap.,’ t. 77, 492. Ferber, “ Der Niesekrampf und dessen Btziehung zur Migrane, znm Bronchialasthma, und zur Heu- fieber,” ‘Arch, der Ileilk.,’ x, 567. Duffin, “ Bronchiectasy involving the Apex of the Left Lung,” ‘Lancet,” 1870, i, 874. Foreign Matters in the Lungs. Merkel (‘ Zwei Ftille von Siderosis pulmonum,” £Deut. Arch.,’ vi, 616) records the following:—An ill-nourished female, apt. 26, had been working nearly a year in a gold-leaf factory ; her sputa were nummular, of a dirty yellow colour, with fine reddish streaks, in which were found particles of iron, partly free, partly enclosed in large round cells. The autopsy showed cheesy degeneration of the lungs. The deposit, which was proved chemically to consist of oxide of iron, was found mostly in the lobular and infundibular septa and the smaller bronchi. The author believes that the phthisis in this case was not set up by the inhalation of iron, but was prior to it. The autopsy ol the second case, occurring