268 REPORT ON SURGERY. or easily got at; and when it is desirable to destroy dying bone rapidly, or quickly to get rid of dead bone.” For most purposes, a mixture of acid and water in equal parts will be found sufficiently active and efficacious, and for the skull it is not advisable to use stronger. “ If employed for the destruction of carious surfaces in cavities of bones, or deep-seated carious patches on the surface of flat bones, e. g., the pelvis, it will be found convenient to apply the diluted acid with lint, and either to stuff the cavity with the wetted lint, or lay the lint on the diseased patch; or the lotion may be used daily with a syringe. On the second or third day, when the lint should be taken out, the cavity in the bone will be seen lined with an opaque white layer of tissue. In a day or two more, this may be removed with a pair of forceps; it will peel off the surface of the deeper bone in the form of a more or less thick layer of tissue; it is, in fact, a soft slough from the surface of the bone from which the phosphate and carbonate of lime have been largely, if not entirely, dissolved out. If, on its removal there should still be a surface of rough bone, the application should be repeated. Usually as soon as one or two sloughs have separated, healthy granu- lations commence to spring up from the surface of the bone beneath, and rapidly cover the living bone with a red, velvety, vascular tissue, which growing daily soon fills the cavity, and closes the wound in the bone. When the acid is applied daily to a portion of exposed necrosed bone, the latter will be seen to disintegrate and crumble away in very small, dry fragments, or may be picked off in minute pieces like friable mortar.” The application of the acid is much more expeditious than that of allowing nature to separate the bone ; the period of the process of separation being reduced from many months to a few weeks. In the diluted form, the acid acts only on diseased bone, not on healthy bone. Some pieces of necrosed, diseased, and healthy bone were placed in solutions of sulphuric acid, and only the two former were affected. It is not intended that operative measures will be by any means superseded, except in a certain number of cases. (‘ Lancet,’ May 28, 1870.) Hydatids of the Humerus.—M. Demarquay records the case of a man, eet. 33, who had served in the army and had been wounded in the arm six years before. After the extraction of the bullet, the wound soon healed. Four years afterwards, pain, abscess, and necrosis ensued. On examination no sequestrum was found, but a cavity, the walls of which were scraped and gouged. On microscopic examination of the wall of this cavity, it was found to consist of hydatid membrane, and some booklets were found. (‘ Gazette des Hopitaux,’ No. 19,1869.) Necrosis of Scull and Scalp. —Mr. Thomas Smith notes the case of a child, set. 9, in whom necrosis of a large portion of the vault of the skull’ and of the scalp covering it, occurred simultaneously. (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ iii, p. 163.) Necrosis of the Femur— A case of necrosis of the femur, in a girl jet. 19, without external inflammation, produced probably by breaking