REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 490 Vaccination.—Mr. George S. Gibb * translates and abridges an im- perial report presented to the French Minister of Agriculture by the Imp. Acad, of Medicine, and attempts to show that vaccination causes an increase in the amount of fatality of smallpox. He says—“ In the summary of averages, the figures for the two sets of ten departments, and lor the two portions of the whole country, are brought into juxta- position to facilitate comparison. The reading is—for every 88 cases of smallpox occurring in the ten departments least vaccinated, there occurred 427 in the ten most vaccinated ; for every 83 cases ocurring in the twenty-three departments least vaccinated, there occurred 254 in the fifty-four most vaccinated. Smallpox deaths: for every one occurring in the ten departments least vaccinated there occurred 49 in the ten most vaccinated; for every 8 occurring in the twenty-three departments least vaccinated there occurred 28 in the fifty-four most vaccinated. Proportion of smallpox deaths to smallpox cases—out of every thousand cases occurring in the ten departments least vaccinated there died 97 ; out of every thousand cases occurring in the ten most vaccinated there died 116; out of every thousand cases occurring in the twenty-three departments least vaccinated there died 92; out of every thousand cases occurring in the fifty-four departments most vaccinated there died 106.” But do the statistics given by Mr. Gibb disprove the beneficial results of vaccination P No information is given as to the former sanitary condition of the departments referred to, and it is not shown whether smallpox had increased or decreased in them during the last few years. In order to establish the proposition that the number of cases stood in a direct relation to the number of vaccina- tions, it should be shown, as an able critic f justly observes, that such a condition of things prevailed generally throughout all the departments of France. But this is not done. We find, however, that in several of the “most vaccinated” departments there were few or no cases of smallpox; while, on the other hand, in several of the “ least vaccinated ” departments there were large proportions of smallpox attacks to births. Hr. Cameron shows what a very different interpretation Mr. Gibb’s readings may be made to bear, and that there is nothing in this gentle- man’s pamphlet which should lead us to modify the opinion generally entertained relative to the value of vaccination as a prophylactic agent. Mr. Simon enters J into an elaborate account of the recent improve- ments in English vaccination, and into a defence of the practice against the attacks of those who allege that vaccination communicates syphilis. He also enters into the question of animal vaccination, and its alleged superiority to vaccination from arm to arm, and says that tacts stated in Dr. Seaton’s report show most clearly that the system, as at present understood, has certain disadvantages; and these, in Mr. Simon’s opinion, are of such a kind as at present entirely to forbid an adoption of the system in place of our own, unless on independent grounds our own already deserved to be condemned. The disadvantages at present imputable to animal vaccination are its various peculiar liabilities to * ‘Report,’ &c., trans. and abridged by Geo. S. Gibb. Longmans, 1870. f Dr. Cameron, ‘ Dubl. Quart, Journ.,’ 1, p. 427. x ‘ Twelfth Rep. of Med. Off. of Privy Council,’ p. 36.