361 SURGERY. clearly, and counted fingers at three feet. The field of vision was intact. On the 7th the globe was still more firm. On the 8th it had returned to its natural consistence, and the ophthalmoscope showed absolutely nothing abnormal. On the 9th the same eye had again become soft, falling to — T2. After the visit on the previous evening the patient had a sensation of pricking in the globe, and also slight ciliary neuralgia, but these were of short duration. To day she complains of seeing occasional sparks, and there is some degree of lacrymation. She feels again the sensation of pressure which ushered in the first attack. There is no haemorrhage into the anterior chamber, no trace of detachment of the retina, and the vitreous is not more opaque. Fingers are counted at two feet, and the field of vision is intact. On the 10th the tension was somewhat increased in the morning, and still more by the evening. The subjective luminous sensations were less marked than yesterday. On the nth the tension had again risen ; the lachrymation and the luminous sensations had ceased. On the 12th the tension was normal. On the 16th it had again fallen to — T2. On the 17th, in the morning, the tension had risen, and by evening it was normal. During this attack there was no other sensation than slight pressure within the eye, and no external sign of irritation. From the 16th to the 23rd the tension remained normal, but on the evening of the latter day it had fallen to — T3, and so remained until the 27th, when, in the evening, there was found to be a slight increase. On the 28th it had risen to — T1, and on the 30th had again fallen to — T3. On the 31st, in the morning, the globe was a little harder, and in the evening the tension was again normal. The last two attacks were attended only by slight diffused redness of the sclerotic and by a sensa- tion of moderate pressure. On the 4th of August the tension was still normal, and the circum- stances of the patient rendered it necessary that she should return home. Her acuteness of vision was exactly the same in both eyes. At 14' she read No. 40 Snellen with lenses of i, and with lenses of f she read No. 5 Jager at 7". In the left eye the opacities in the vitreous were less numerous, and the fundus was normal. The imperfect acuity of vision of this eye depends upon the opacities, and partly upon a very fine secondary web which occupied part of the area of the pupil. The acuity of the right eye corresponded with a secondary cataract still more pronounced. In this eye the wound had healed by the first in- tention. Shortly after the departure of the patient a letter was received from her husband, who said—‘ A fortnight after her return her eye became worse than it had ever been at Berlin; she said that it felt ready to burst, tears flowed in abundance, and the eye was completely soft. She remained quietly in bed, became better, and at last all was as before.” It was a remarkable feature of this case that the considerable re- duction of tension was attended by no change of form. In the two cases previously recorded there was wrinkling of the membrane of Descemet, with corresponding diminution of the acuity of vision and