216 REPORT ON SURGERY. the corresponding articular surfaces scraped and cauterised. If, how- ever, the caries have extended deeply into the astragalus and the cuboid and scaphoid bones, amputation at the tibio-tarsal joint should be at once performed. Total necrosis and phlegmonous periostitis are the diseases in which extirpation of the os calcis is most successful; this is because the periosteum is raised from the bone by the suppuration, and the operation is reduced to the simple removal of a sequestrum. In cases of this kind reproduction of the bone has taken place. The growths which indicate extirpation of the calcaneum are, chiefly, en- chondromata or fibromata ; cancer is very rare. At first, cancer affect- ing the os calcis is too limited to be recognised; and, when it has become capable of diagnosis, no other operation than amputation can prudently be performed. The presence of fistulse or small ulcers, or of inflamma- tory induration of the skin of the heel, do not contra-indicate excision. But in very extensive ulceration of the skin, the changes produced in it by a cancerous tumour, or even considerable thinning of the skin by a non-malignant tumour, contra-indicate excision. Even if it were fol- lowed by recovery, the patient would have to walk on a cicatricial surface. In all cases operation should not be too long delayed. The extent of wound required in the operation is small, and allows of its performance even in subjects worn down by long disease. Excision of the scapula.—Mr. Pollock narrates two cases of excision of the scapula, without the sacrifice of the arm. The first case was that of a girl, set. 16, suffering from a large tumour, which proved to be malignant. The acromion was sawn through near its base, and was left attached to the clavicle. She recovered well from the opera- tion, but died at tbe end of twelve months with recurrence of the growth. The second case was that of a man, set. 47, also the subject of a malignant tumour. The whole of the acromion and part of the clavicle were removed. He was suffering from bronchitis at the time, and this increased after the operation. He died five days later. No trace of malignant disease was observed in the lungs at the post-mor- tem. Reference is made to recorded cases, and the question asked, what is the best means of removing the scapula ? In ordinary cases the incisions practised by Mr. Syme, viz. one across the upper surface, and another midway from this to the lower angle of the bone or edge of the tumour. In the subsequent stages Mr. Pollock, however, de- parts from Mr. Syme’s practice. “ Instead of attempting to detach the muscles of the anterior border in the first stage of the operation, I have, in both instances, liberated the posterior border m the commence- ment, then the inferior, and then turned up the bone from below up- wards This proceeding allows a finger to be readily passed under the subscapular artery before it is divided, so that when divided, it can be at once secured without the loss of any blood from that artery. Then the remaining structures can be rapidly cut through and the separation of the tumour effected. At the time of carrying out this plan the author was unaware that Sir W. Eergusson had also preferred it It the subclavian be successfully compressed during the operation the sur- geon has nothing to fear from hemorrhage, provided he avoids cutting