PERFORATING ULCER OF T1IE FOOT. 310 this country, but appears to have been noticed first in France by M. Cloquet in 1837.” Boyer, Marjolin, and Nelaton have written on it. The latter describes it as commencing as a phlyctenula on the pad of the foot. The epidermis is raised by a small quantity of purulent serum, and the subjacent dermis appears of a rose colour, and when touched is highly sensitive. A detailed history of a patient is given. During twelve years this patient underwent six operations on one foot (the last being entire removal) and three on the other one. Vesigne, writing shortly after Nelaton, describes the disease as begin- ning in a hard corn. A case is described. He considered the disease to begin in the skin and subcutaneous structures. In this case the disease had lasted twenty years. In conclusion, Mr. Hancock remarks on the nature of this disease, which Nelaton calls “ perforating ulcer of the sole of the foot.” Is it, as Yesigne considers, a variety of plantar psoriasis ? Is it due to syphilis? “I fear that our knowledge is too limited to answer these questions. All agree as to the locality of the origin being the pad of the sole of the foot, corresponding to the heads of the metatarsal bones, especially that of the great toe, due, doubtless, to the pressure exerted on this part by the superimposed weight of the body. At the same time it is evidently constitutional, as in the first case which I have here narrated, the patient’s hand was similarly affected, whilst Nelaton informs us that his patient (a cabinet-maker) was frequently obliged to leave off his work for a time in consequence of his hands being threatened with a similar mischief. Again, the disease is hereditary. Nelaton’s patient was one of six brothers, of whom two were suffering and one had already died of the complaint. The first, third and fifth were free ; the second, fourth and sixth were the victims. In Mr. Wilkes’ first case the mother and two sisters (all of whom died) had the same complaint. The mother was sixty when she died ; all her toes were gone. The sister’s feet were extensively affected. The subjects of the second and third cases were cousins; the father of the second and the mother of the third suffered. The results of treatment have been most unsatisfactory.” Yesigne tried Fowler’s solution with apparent benefit, but the disease returned. “ If we accept the doctrines of Nelaton and Yesigne, nothing remains but to leave the patient a hopeless cripple. Both these surgeons, however, it seems to me, have overlooked facts of the greatest importance; first, that the disease invariably commences in the region of the anterior extremities of the metatarsal bones and their joints with the toes, that its tendency is to confine itself to this region, and that its progress towards the tarsal bones is marked by extreme tardiness; and, second, by the complete immunity of the heel. We are left in doubt by Nelaton whether con- stitutional treatment was employed antecedent to, or combined with, the various operative procedures. Consequently, in the first instance, it would.be our duty to remove the sequestrum and diseased soft parts, and to give the patient the benefit of constitutional remedies combined! But if, notwithstanding, the disease returns, there can no longer be a question, considering the complete success attending Pirogoff’s ampu- tation in my case, and Syme’s amputation by Mr. Wilkes and by Mr.