REPORT ON SURGERY. 302 Mr. Little narrated to the Med. and Ckir. Society the case of a woman who had swallowed an artificial tooth-plate during an attack of epilepsy. She came under care two days afterwards. She had been unable to retain any food, and the foreign body was evidently exciting great irritation. On passing an ivory-tipped probang, Mr. Little felt it in the stomach easily, and then, with an ordinary coin catcher, succeeded in hooking it, and drew it up to the pharynx. Here the plate lodged, and some difficulty was experienced in the further extraction, which, however, was accomplished, and the woman recovered well. The plate, which had sharp, projecting extremities, measured one inch and three quarters in length by one inch and a quarter in breadth, and fixed to it were three incisor teeth, one canine, and one bicuspid. Mr. Little advocated attempts at extraction in similar cases. Mr. Curling con- sidered that the presence of vomiting rendered the case urgent, and justified the attempt at extraction. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ February 26, 1870.) (Esophagotomy.—A table of twenty-one cases of oesopkagotomy for the removal of foreign bodies, with only four deaths, is given in the second edition of vol. ii of ‘ Holmes’s System,’ and a table of twenty-four cases, with the same number of deaths only, is given in ‘ Boston City Hospital Beports,’ 1870, p. 523, by Dr. Cheever. Stricture of the oesophagus.—Dr. Morell Mackenzie narrates two cases of constriction of the oesophagus treated successfully by dilatation. He uses a hollow, gum-elastic tube, terminated with a piece of hard rubber, slit so as to dilate when a little bolt is shot down with a wire. (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ iii, p. 182.) Foreign body passed through the alimentary canal.—Dr. Dickinson exhibited a large pin which had been swallowed by a child between two and three years old, and was safely passed by the anus. (‘ Path. Trans.,’ xxi, p. 169.) Sir W. Fergusson narrates a case in which a gentleman, rnt. 30, swallowed a gold pencil case. After twenty-two days it passed per rectum. It was four and a quarter inches in length. (‘ Lancet,’ March 12, 1870.) Tumours.—Remarkably rapid growth 'of hard cancer.—Mr. Savory records the case of a small, spare woman, forty years of age, in whom very rapid growth of a hard cancer of the breast occurred. She was admitted into Bartholomew’s on September 14, 1869, with a cancer of the right breast, of about two and a half years’ duration. In the skin of the chest, at the distance of two'or three inches from the breast, were three small spots of deposit. The opposite breast was carefully exa- mined by himself and several colleagues, without any disease being discoverable. The right breast was removed, but the cutaneous deposits left. Nine or ten days after the operation she noticed that the other breast became suddenly enlarged and hard. To use her own words, “ It swelled up all at once, and has not increased since.” She did not,