365 OPHTHALMOSCOPY. simple rotation of the prisms. He has at present clone little more than pave the way for a more complete knowledge of the value of aberration of the function of chromatic vision. The paper affords, however, a curious example of German love of appropriation. The undulatory theory of light was suggested, and the foundations of our knowledge of colour vision were laid, by Dr. Thomas Young, whose genius and works have been made the subject of merited eulogium by Helmholtz. Since then, Helmholtz’s countrymen have omitted the Thomas, and have turned the surname into Jung! The means of diagnosis in retinal disease and amblyopia have been improved by the introduction of Professor Forster’s perimeter, for accurately and quickly mapping out the field of vision. A thesis giving a good account of the instrument and its use has been published by Moser.* Iwanoff brought before the Heidelberg Conferencef a paper on dis- seminated choroiditis. He states that the familiar ophthalmoscopic appearances thus denoted may be produced by four classes of changes, between which there is nothing in common but the integrity of the inner layers of the retina, which, in interstitial retinitis, are the chief seats of morbid action. The author describes two varieties of the so- called choroiditis that are truly choroidal, but only one of which is in- flammatory in its character, and two which depend upon changes in the external layers of the retina. Cases of isolated rupture of the choroid have been related by Knapp. J He is of opinion that rupture is not necessarily attended by hemor- rhage ; and that it is ophthalmoscopically shown by the presence of a crescentic patch of choroidal atrophy at a point removed from the nerve. By other writers these patches, when following injury and at- tended by no history of intra-ocular bleeding, have usually been re- garded as the result of wasting from the effects of a tension that stopped short of rending force. {cl) Ophthalmoscopy. Dr. Boring § says that the explanation hitherto given of the central light-streak of the retinal vessels, and which has been generally accepted as it is stated by Jaeger, is that it is the effect of reflection from the column of blood in the vessel. He, however, maintains that he has proved, by means of a simple apparatus, consisting of a glass tube filled with red fluid, placed at the bottom of a box, that the light- streak does not come by reflection from the column of fluid itself,Ibut by reflection from the surface behind the tube, transmitted through the fluid, and varying as the surface behind the tube has greater or less reflecting property, is more or less intense in colour, or is wanting The apparatus imitates sufficiently well the conditions which exist in the fundus oculi, and appears to prove the position of the author. The absence of the light-streak in the choroidal vessels is stated by * ‘Das Perimeter und seine Anwendung,’ von Dr. Carl Moser, Breslau i860 f * Klinische Monatsbliitter,’ 1869. ’ + * Archives of Ophthalmology and Otology.’ § ‘Trans. Am.Oph. Soc.,’ 1870, pp. 122—128.