84. REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Timm, “ Zur Kenntniss der Leukamie und Pseudoleukamie,” ‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 187°, 43°; Reichardt, “Blut und Harn bei Lenkamie,” ‘ Centralblatt,5 1870, 708: Reincke, “ Ein Fall von Leukamie,5' ‘ Virch. Arch, li, 399; Pettenkofer and Voit, “ Ueber den Stofrverbrauch bei einem Leukiimischen Manne,” ‘Zeit.f. Biol.,’ v, 319; Neumann, “ Ein Fall von Leukamie mit Erkranlcung des Knochenmarkes,” ‘Arch. f. Ileilk.,’ xi, 1 • Wade, “Leucocythmmia in Disease of the Spleen,’5 ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869, i, 154; ib., ii, 644; Roberts, “ Case of Leucocythmmia,” ib., ii, 585 ; Paterson, “ Acute Leucocy- thaemia in Pregnant Women,55 ib., 1870, i, 577; Turner, “Case of Multiple Lymphoid i umour within the Abdominal Cavity,” ‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Rep./ 1870, 117. Morbus Addisonii A In a very elaborate paper on the pathology of morbus Addisonii (‘ Deut. Archiv f. Klin. Med.,’ vii, s. 34), Kisel, of Halle, analyses the published cases of the disease, reports most carefully three others com- pared with two, almost as fully reported, older cases, together with their post-mortem results, and draws the following conclusions:—The results of extirpation of the supra-renal bodies, and the course of nume- rous cases in which they were diseased, prove that in man they may be destroyed, so long as the ordinary pathological limits are not over- passed, not only without any evil effect on the general system, but often without any symptoms. The set of symptoms described as mor- bus Addisonii is dependent on an affection of the nerves in the neigh- bourhood of the cceliac axis, the coeliac plexus, and semilunar ganglia, and probably the superior mesenteric plexus as well; the affection being set up by secondary processes in the supra-renal bodies, and almost exclusively by tuberculous inflammation in them, this secondary inflammation serving as the medium between the affection of the bodies and that of the sympathetic. Disease of the coeliac plexus occurs inde- pendently of mischief to the supra-renal bodies in affections of other organs (case of “ Bronzeskin in Disease of the Pancreas,” Bell and Pletcher, ‘Med. Ass. Journ.,’ 1857, No. 45), and perhaps, also, spon- taneously (case of Kohler’s, ‘ Wiirtemb. Corresp. Bl.,’ 1862, Nos. 12 and 13). As far as is known, the affection of the sympathetic depends upon an inflammatory increase in the nerve-fibres and ganglion-cells of the surrounding connective tissue, and the changes resulting, in conse- quence, in the sympathetic itself and its nervous elements. The only conceivable possibility of recovery in morbus Addisonii would be a retrogressive metamorphosis of the products of inflammation, and a return to the normal state, before the nervous elements have taken any essential and active participation in the process. The affection of the sympathetic is manifested by a paralysis of its vaso-motor fibres, which causes excessive accumulation of blood in the abdominal vessels, and a corresponding emptiness of all parts of the circulatory system outside of the latter. This abnormal blood-distribution causes phenomena more or less resembling those observed in collapse and in anamiia of the nervous centres. The early symptoms of antemia of the brain are pro- * Two things especially are noticeable in the cases abstracted: the connection of morbus Addisonii with intermittent fever, and the increase of connective tissue in the nerve-substance.—A. B. S.