REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 104 the chest, he was subject to irresistible disordered movements, hittin" out right and left, though perfectly conscious all the time, and free from any vertigo, nausea, or vomiting, the attacks ending in tears. Smeth decides against their having any epileptiform character, and puts them down to hysteria. Dubard (“ L’llysterie et la Choree, &c.‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1869, 506) gives seven cases cured by bromide of potassium; Chairon, “ Etude Clinique sur la Nature et la Co-ordina- tion des Phenomenes Hysteriques,” ‘Bull, de l’Acad. de Med./ xxxiv, 736; Russell, “A Fatal Case of Hysterical Paraplegia,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ./ 1869, ii, 632; Ogle, “Clin. Lection a case of Hysteria,” ib., 1870, ii, 57; Parsons, “Case of Hysterical Vomiting and Sleeplessness,” ib., 137; Lee, “Inquiry into the Nature, Origin, and Treatment of Hysteric Disease,” ib., 1870, i, 299. Chorea. Broadbent (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869, i, 343, 369) supports Eussell Reynolds, and Hughlings Jackson in the view that chorea is an affection of the corpora striata and optic thalami caused by embolism of their vessels; and attempts to establish that it is a symptom rather than a disease, and cannot be referred to any single pathological condition. He gives eleven cases, in four of which there was more or less distinctly marked right hemichorea, and in four left hemichorea; in two others right, and in one left, becoming general. The last case is the only fatal one: the autopsy showed scattered subpleural tubercles at both apices, large, yellow, nodulated supra-renal capsules, “ exhibiting the changes characteristic of advanced Addison’s disease,” and a tumour of the size of a haricot bean on the posterior aspect of the dorsal part of the spinal cord, about two inches above the lumbar enlargement, consisting of nerve-fibres, connective-tissue, and vessels radiating from near the axis of the cord. The heart and brain were healthy. During life there had been sufficient browning of the skin to attract attention, but not enough to cause suspicion of Addison’s disease. As to the conditions other than embolism, to which chorea is attributable, he conjectures—1. Local innutrition; 2. Reflex inhibitory influence from peripheral irritation; 3. Direct action upon the ganglia by shock, &c. (two cases are given, caused by fright). Holding that the one definite indication derived from its pathology is that the affection is one of innutrition, he thinks good is generally done by giving cod-liver oil and iron, and perhaps phosphorus or arsenic. Tuckwell (‘St. Barthol. Hosp. Rep.,’ 1869, 86) gives some cases of chorea, with a critical review of the opinions of Kirkes, Hughlings Jackson, Broadbent, Barnes, and others. He concludes in favour of the embolic theory, and thinks that no drugs are of any good. As to the question of sex as influencing, or influenced by, the disease, he records the number of cases admitted into the Ormond street Hospital w ith rheumatism from 1832 to 1868; of these there were 68 male and 78 female in-patients, and 138 male and 178 female out-patients, giving a total of 226 boys to 252 girls. He thinks that rheumatism is naturally more common in females, even when they are not exposed to changes of weather; and that hence chorea is more predominant in females, on account of the greater frequency of rheumatic heart-disease.