34 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. and capillaries. At the same time occurred a gradual retardation of the circulating fluid, stasis at some points in the capillaries, extravasa- tion ot the white corpuscles in great numbers, and of a few red cells, lie differs from Cohnheim, in regarding the dilatation of the arteries as being only temporary, and followed sooner or later by a persistent moniliform contraction more or less marked, contrasting strongly with the permanent and very evident dilatation of the veins. He agrees with him as to the connective-tissue corpuscles of the tongue, that they undergo no proliferation, but only passive alterations of nutrition, and he discovers in the frog’s mesentery elements closely analogous to those described by Cohnbeim, irregular, finely granular, without multiple processes, and containing usually a spot, more or less pale, representing the nucleus ; he shows also that the same kind of corpuscles in the lung are as passive during the inflammatory process. Briefly, for him as for Cohnheim, the pus-cell is but a displaced, extravasated leucocyte. In a note by the same author, presented to the Academie de Mhlecine (“Sur le Mecanisme de la Suppuration,” ‘Bulletin de l’Acad. deMed.,’ 1870, p. 72; ‘Graz. Med.,’ 1870, p. 91), the results of observa- tions on the migration of leucocytes in pericarditis, endocarditis, myositis, and fistula in ano are published ; and M. Vulpian, who pre- sented the paper, adds cases of sub-acute cystitis in a dog, erysipelas of the mucous membrane, chronic bronchitis, suppurating wounds, and the eruption following friction with croton oil, and that of variola, &c. In all these cases the leucocytes were seen to surround the vessels in great numbers, becoming more rare as the latter were departed from. In variola, the pustules of which are seated in the Malpighian layer, as well as in the vesicles produced by croton oil, the leucocytes were accumulated in the same way round the vascular loops of the papilla, and might be observed passing across the cell-wall, or filling up the stomata of the vessels (M. Vulpian has seen pus formed in this way in nine hours). In opposition to these observers Peltz (‘Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ 1870, p. 373, “Experience sur les phenomenes dont les globules blancs du sang et les parois des capillaires sont le siege pendant 1’inflammation ”) supports the view of llobin. His experiments were made on peritoneum inflamed by the introduction of foreign bodies into the abdominal cavity. By the employment of a solution of nitrate of silver (1 gramme to 1000 grammes water) the contours of the pavement epithelial cells could be coloured, remaining so for some hours at least, but he could not discover the stomata described by Eecklinghausen on the dia- phragmatic peritoneum. He allows that the presence of fusiform cor- puscles, as described by His, can be made out in the cornea of healthy rabbits'; and in an inflamed cornea, after some hours of inflammation, he has seen these corpuscles swell, become twice and thrice their normal size, their processes undergoing the same change, their contents being transparent and finely granular, with sometimes one or more nuclei. After a longer time, two to eight days, the contents of the dilated cor-, puscles become segmented, and take on a form resembling that of leucocytes. Should the process be only slightly active, the hyper- trophied corpuscles may undergo a true colloid degeneration. He has