TIIE PUEltPEltAL STATE. 429 concludes that, in the case narrated, there was ammoniacal blood- poisoning in the sense of Frenchs. (‘Arch. f. Gynakol., 1870.) Two cases of'puerperal convulsions successfully treated by chloroform. Dr. E. R. Townsend, jun., relates two, which illustrate the action of chloroform in puerperal convulsions ; but since the treatment was com- plicated, it can hardly be said that the beneficial action of chloroform is proved. The first case, that of a lady in the seventh month of her pregnancy, showed premonitory nervous symptoms. . "When convulsions set in the os uteri was closed. Cold affusion, then ice to the head, was used. Sinapisms to the legs and stupes of hot water. Pulse rapid and feeble. Calomel on tongue. Coma set in. Labour was, therefore, induced, and accelerated by Barnes’ bag, forceps, and craniotomy. The chloroform was not given until after delivery. The effect seemed to be that, if given freely, just as the first sign of twitching indicating the approach of a fit, the fit was not averted. The patient recovered. In the second case, that of a weak half-starved woman, in labour at term of her first child, the fits came on during the first stage of labour. Albuminuria. Coma followed the fits. Chloroform was given, and delivery effected by forceps. Htemorrhage followed placenta. Ice was applied to the head. Chloroform was given so as to anticipate the full development of the fits. She had croton oil. The albumen dis- appeared. The patient recovered. (‘Dubl. Quart. Journ. of Med.,’ 1871.) Dr. J. J. Phillips (‘Guy’s Hospital Reports,’ 1870) contributes a clinical illustration of the comparative value of bleeding and chloroform in puerperal convulsions. Discussing first the opinions of authors, he argues against the idea that the immediate pathological condition of convulsions offers any indication for bleeding. He deduces from statistical grounds that the mortality from puerperal convulsions has greatly diminished since bleeding has been less frequently resorted to. He relates eight cases in which chloroform constituted the main treat- ment. He submits the following propositions:—(1) That bleeding has no claim to be regarded as a remedy for puerperal convulsions, and that in the majority of cases, at least, if seen at an early period of the attack, it is unnecessary. (2) That bleeding is often injurious by predisposing to various puerperal ailments, and sometimes by increasing the violence of the paroxysms. (3) That the chief reliance should be placed on chloroform, which prevents the recurrence or diminishes the violence of the paroxysms. (4) That in mild cases it is sufficient to keep the patient very slightly under the influence of chloroform in the intervals, more being given when indications of a fit are seen ; but that in severe cases the patient should be kept for a time uninterruptedly under its influence. (5) That if the convulsions have already produced much pulmonary congestion, it is beneficial to withdraw a few ounces of blood before administering chloroform ; and that generally it is advisable to lessen the tendency to cerebral congestion by the application of cold to the head. (6) That it is rarely necessary to interfere with labour before the os uteri is dilated, or in those cases where the convulsions precede labour; but that it is usually expedient in the second stage to complete delivery, due regard beiDg had to the condition of the uterus.