REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 360 during tlie operation. This expectation was fulfilled, a considerable quantity escaping with each lens. There was at first very marked de- pression, but under a compressive bandage the eyes recovered their normal consistence in forty-eight hours. The cicatrization took place naturally, except that in the left eye an intermediate semi-transparent substance was formed between the lips of the wound, resembling the cystoid cicatrices sometimes following iridectomy for glaucoma, and at least six millimetres in width, but not elevated. This form of union lias been often seen in other cases of cataract, and without any ill effect. After the operation, on account of the ordinary irritability of eyes from which vitreous lias been lost, the patient was kept for three weeks in a darkened chamber. At the end of that time she went into a light room, but on the morrow both eyes became irritable, and there occurred in both an equal degree of ciliary neuralgia, profuse lachrymation, and slight circumcorneal redness. She was sent back to her bed in the darkness, and received a subcutaneous injection of morphia. After the lapse of a few hours all the symptoms had disappeared. A fortnight later she was permitted cautiously to try and accustom herself to light, remaining each day, for a few minutes only, in a half-illuminated chamber. All went well until the 5th of July, six weeks after the operation. On that day, at the morning visit, the patient complained of a feeling of pressure in the left eye. This feeling had commenced about an hour before she left her bed, and was attended by some indistinctness of vision. There was a slight effusion of blood in the anterior chamber. Traumatic detachment of the retina was feared, and on feeling the globe its tension was found greatly diminished (— T3). The patient maintained that the eye had not been hurt, and, as she was very intelligent, the suspicion of a blow during sleep was laid aside. Except for the blood in the anterior chamber and a slight circumcorneal injection, the eye presented no abnormal appearance externally. The wound had nowhere reopened, and the cornea was nowhere wrinkled. There was no lachry- mation or other sign of irritation. The ophthalmoscope revealed numerous opacities in the vitreous, but no retinal detachment. A\ ith this eye the patient could count fingers at three feet, and read large characters without glasses. The field of vision was perfect. From the state of the eyes and the absence of any motive, no ophthalmoscopic investigation or accurate testing of vision had previously taken place,_ and it is, therefore, possible that the opacities in the vitreous were of older date than the present affection, although their complete absence from the other eye supports an opposite conclusion. The patient had been able to count figures at three feet by the light of a candle, so that there was no marked diminution of acuity. There being no indication for active treatment, the patient was only sent to bed in a dark room, and ordered to guard her eye carefully from all excitation. In the even- ing her state remained unchanged. On the 6th, in the morning, there was a manifest increase in the ocular tension, which, by evening, was = — T- , and the blood in the anterior chamber had disappeared. The patient declared that she sa\i