REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 120 Abscess of the Brain, Softening, Embolism, Sfc. Thorp (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869, i, 122) publishes the case of a man, set. 29, who had suffered from ophthalmia and “liver derange- ment” in Egypt, four years before death. There was no history of injury to the head. The chief symptoms were slight muscular paralysis, numbness of left side, pain in eyes, pupils normal or only slightly con- tracted. At the autopsy an abscess was found occupying the whole of the right thalamus, with a sac about a quarter of an inch in thickness. The brain and calvarium were otherwise healthy. Despres (‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1870, 225) records the case of a girl, set. 18, who had been under treatment eight months before for well-marked “secondary” syphilis. On March 25th she was seized with intense pain in the head and repeated vomiting, with general, though slight, deli- rium. No other cerebral symptoms presented themselves, and she died suddenly, sixteen days later, comatose. The autopsy showed an abscess situated at the external lateral portion of the occipital lobe of the right hemisphere, containing pus and a little cerebral detritus ; its walls were irregular and jagged, and the brain-substance in its neighbourhood soft- ened ; immediately above it, and separated from it, was another abscess of older date, its walls made up of the conjoined pia mater and visceral layer of arachnoid and by a thickened uniting membrane; it also con- tained pus of a gangrenous colour and smell. Lochner, in ‘ Schmidt’s Jahrbiicher’ (1870), quotes a case reported by Burnet (‘ Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Bep.,’ xxi, 251). A female, set. 18, was admitted into the Bellevue Hospital, July 26, suffering from general prostration, impaired intellect, and slight delirium, and with a strong and regular pulse. Since the 23rd she had had pain in the left ear, followed by purulent discharge. Next day convulsions and opis- thotonos occurred, and death followed on the 31st. The autopsy showed a small collection of pus outside the dura mater, near the tip of the petrous portion of the left temporal bone; a large abscess in the middle and posterior lobes of the left cerebral hemisphere; the under surface of the brain of a faintly greenish colour; the brain-substance in the neighbourhood of the abscess softened and discoloured. In the cerebellum there was a deposit of pus under the arachnoid; the pia mater was strongly injected. There was some extravasated blood out- side the dura mater of the cord, but otherwise no inflammation of the membranes. Lyons (‘Dub. Quart. Journ.,’ xlviii, 216) found softening of the left lobe of the cerebellum in a man, set. 60, which he considers due to a condition of temporary or transient embolism of the vessels supplying this part. During life the symptoms had been ataxy of the lower extremities, paralysis of the right side of the face, delirium, and confu- sion of speech. , „ „ . . , , . ,, Eeinberg (‘Berk Klin. Woch.,’ 1869, 221) found an abscess in the cerebellum in a man who had suffered from chronic internal otitis, with caries of the petrous bone. There was ataxy of the lower extremi- ties ; the intellect was free; there were no convulsions, anaesthesia, or troubles of sight.