273 HIP-JOINT DISEASE. frequently found in connection with, caries of the shoulder, pelvis, wrist, ankle, elbow, tibia, spine, and hip. Hip-joint disease.—Mr. Bryant agrees with Mr. Holmes that morbus coxae has no necessary connexion with struma. He says it would be well to get rid of the erroneous notion that hip disease, or any other joint disease, has its origin in a constitutional cause, tor, till that is effected, the local treatment is likely to be disregarded or considered as of only secondary importance, when all who have much expe- rience in the treatment of these cases will admit that local treatment cannot be made of too prominent importance. Mr. Bryant thinks that it is very important to distinguish whether the hip disease begins in the synovial membrane or in the bone. He inclines to the opinion, from the numerous specimens of disease of the bone which may be seen in the museums, that it is anything but uncommon for the disease to begin in the bone. The clinical distinction must, in many cases, be very difficult. The points to be attended to are, first, that in synovitis of the joints effusion quickly occurs; if, therefore, some swelling can be made out, possibly even deep fluctuation, with pain on pressure on the great trochanter, the disease is probably synovial. In disease of the articular extremity of the bone, however, an aching of the part may be the only early symptom, and this may continue for a long while. There is no fulness of the affected region till the disease has existed for some time, then the end of the bone may be noticed to be enlarged, and there will be increased heat, generally intermittent. In a later stage of the disease, if synovial, pressure on the trochanter will be much better borne than if the disease be in the bone; generally move- ment will be better borne. If the joint disease result from an acci- dent, the progress will be much more rapid than if it be of spontaneous origin, and all the tissues will quickly be involved. (‘ Med Times and Gazette,’ July 3, 1869.) Cases of articular ostitis, in which the disease was arrested by treat- ment in its first stage, are narrated in the number for July 17. Cases of early synovial disease, July 24. Cases of anchylosis, August 21. Cases attended with suppuration, September 18. The treatment of hip disease is discussed October 16. The chief object is stated to be to secure immobility of the joint. On the question of excision, Mr. Bryant remarks that the operation is justifiable whenever dead bone can be felt, and in severe cases where dead bone cannot be felt, but in these the prospect of cure without interference is much greater. In young life excision is by no means fatal, as two out of three get well, from ten to thirty years of age, something less than half recover ; after that period it is full of danger. It should not be performed without the bones are considered extensively involved, nor for synovial disease only, unless the health is failing rapidly. It should never be performed for acute suppurative disease. Two cases of excision are narrated, and woodcuts are given. In a boy of five, after two years, the limb was one inch shorter. The boy could walk and run without a stick. Bight years after the operation he was seen again ; the limb was two inches shorter and much wasted, but he could get about well. 18