329 ICHTHYOSIS AND EPITHELIOMA GLOSSjE. large number of these tumours. The hereditariness is sometimes con- fined altogether to the female line. The mother and aunts and grand- mother of one lady had been affected. In one family all the females for three or four successive generations, had had these tumours, but all the males had escaped. Removal is the only treatment. There is no little anxiety attendant on such operations, for erysipelas and pyannia are not by any means infrequent events. Subglossitis.—Mr. Carsten Holthouse notes a case of subglossitis. _ The patient, a man, set. 31, was profusely salivated, but there was no f'oetor of the breath. The tongue formed a hard, solid lump, and was perfectly immovable. The whole of the subglossic region was affected with a sort of solid oedema, which formed another tumour in front and below the tongue. A white fur or exudation covered the dental margin of the gums for a breadth of about three lines, both of the upper and lower jaw. The soft palate and back of the pharynx were quite free. He had noticed, while at dinner the previous day, that his tongue became stiff and large. No cause could be assigned. An in- cision was made into the submucous tissue without benefit. Chlorate of potash gargle was tried without avail. On the fourth day a poul- tice was applied to the throat, a borax gargle ordered, and quinine given internally. A rapid improvement followed. The subglossal swelling distinguished this case from one of glossitis. There was no tenderness, &c., of the salivary glands. (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans,’ ii, 140.) Ichthyosis and epithelioma glossce.—Mr. Hulke has communicated to the Clinical Society the particulars of a case in which extreme hyper- trophy of the epithelial and papillary elements of the mucosa of the tongue was followed, after twenty years, by epithelioma. The patient, an athletic fireman, set. 43, came under his care first in 1861 with the following curious condition of the tongue :—“ TJpon the middle of its upper surface there was an oblong, yellowish-white, leathery patch, about 1^'" thick at its centre, but thinner towards the left side of the tongue, where it was not unlike the thinnest kid leather. A little behind the left corner of this patch was a more prominent, round spot, of the same kind, about broad. These patches were accurately cir- cumscribed ; the underlying muscular tissue was not indurated, and no enlarged glands were perceptible. He said that, twelve or fourteen years before, the skin on the back of his tongue began to thicken, and a raised patch was formed here which slowly grew thicker and larger, until it became so very inconvenient that he pared it down with a razor, and he had since repeated this, from time to time, whenever the patch became troublesome by its bulk and its inflexibility. He denied syphilis, and no traces of it could be found. The smaller patch was cut off, and the wound healed quickly. A memorandum, made at the time, is to the effect that “ the wart is 3"' thick at the centre and i|"' at the edge. It consists of the natural elements of the mucous mem- brane greatly hypertrophied. The papillae and their epithelial sheaths arc both involved.” Three years later he was seen again. The disease had spread, but not altered materially in character. Portions, on two