497 CHOLERA. ftre to be considered as the essential and hitherto unknown seasonal momenta. Certain changes in the state of the ground-water have shown themselves to form an essential seasonal 'moment, not only for cholera, hut also for other epidemic and endemic diseases, as e.g. ente- ric fever. (26) So far as the appearance of cholera has been exactly observed in India, where it is endemic, no circumstance, even remofe, has there exerted upon its seasonal frequency so regular and definite an action as differences in the humidity of the soil; so that in Calcutta, in the hot and moist season of the year at the end ol the rainy season, cholera appeared to the least extent, just as in the hot and dry season the disease was most abundant. The minimum of cholera in August there bore to the maximum in April, in twenty-six years, the propor- tion of six to one. (2,7) Absolute or constant dryness of the soil, as, for example, in the desert, is as unfavorable to the cholera-generating process as absolute or constant wetness. But along with a certain medium proportion of water in the soil as a condition most conducive to the springing up of an epidemic, facts most certainly indicate the necessity of a great variation (fall) of water in the soil; which varia- tion, when associated with a certain temperature of the earth and sta- bility of the organic and inorganic substances contained in it, may act like alternate dampness and dryness upon putrefaction and eremacausis. Three alternatives are here presented—there may he places where, and times when, the humidity of the soil is too great, or too little, or too uniform, to preserve all the local conditions necessary for the develop- ment of an epidemic (i. e. a sufficiency of y). (28) When the inter- spaces of a porous soil are filled partly with air and partly with water, we call the soil moist; when the pores are completely filled with water, and the air expelled, a soil is said to possess ground-water. The ground- water must not be regarded simply as a constant source of moisture to the superjacent porous strata, but the changes in its condition form a certain starting-point (a zero-mark) for the moistening of the soil. To note the rise and fall of this saturation-point is a datum for mea- surement of the ground-water. In every place the rhythmical move- ments of the ground-water should be noted at intervals of fourteen days. (29) The local level and the extent of the movements in the ground-water depend essentially on five momenta— (a) on the rain-fall in that locality and place; (b) on the quantity of rain penetrating the soil, or flowing off from its surface; (c) on the quantity of rain which, penetrating into the soil, is retained by the more or less dry, more or less retentive strata, or is again evaporated; (d) on the quantity of ground-water that flows from the higher altitudes down to the imper- meable strata; and (e) on the inclination which the impermeable stra- tum beneath&the ground-water has. As a rule, in fluviatile valleys the level of the ground-water lies higher than the level of the streams ; in cases where it is otherwise it proceeds from permeability of the river- bank to water whether the level of the ground-water shall depend most upon the stream or most upon the land. (30) Usually in alluvial soils the fluctuations in the humidity from the surface down to the first impermeable stratum are most easily and surely measured by the varying level of water in wells, if no water-collecting strata be interposed 32