THE OPHTHALMOSCOPE IN DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 119 Andrews (£ Amer. Journ. of Insanity,’ xxv, 3^9) gives the following: —A hoy, ast. 15, had been perfectly well, up to an attack of typhoid fever in April, 1868. During recovery he did not regain flesh, and began to give evidences of great mental disturbance in a marked change of disposition and conduct. Some time after his admission into an asylum he complained suddenly of headache and pain in the stomach, became convulsed with opisthotonos, more maniacal, and then quieter, and died suddenly without further convulsions. The autopsy showed the subarachnoid cavity filled with a thin layer of blood, and the vessels of the pia mater much congested ; the haemorrhage was most abundant at the base of the brain; the lateral, third, and fourth ventricles were filled with blood-clots and liquor sanguinis. The cerebral substance appeared normal in colour and consistence, but the microscope revealed advanced degeneration of the walls of the blood-vessels. Johnston, “Case of Hydrocephalus,” ‘ Dubl. Quart. Journ.,’ xlvii, 467; Kennedy, “ Case of Hydrocephalus advanced to second stage; recovery under the use of an issue,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869, ii, 557; Curran, “Hydrocephalus Acetus,” ‘Med. Press and Circ.,’ 1869, i, 537; Reiner, “Zur Casuistik der Ausgebreiteten Gehirn-apoplexie bei Kindern ” (in a boy and girl, set. 9), ‘ Petersb. Med. Zeit.,’ xvi, 80; Crisp, “Apoplexy of the Cerebellum in girl set. year,” ‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xx, 1; Cayley, “Apoplexy in a girl set. 11 years : nuclear deposits on minute cerebral arteries,” ib., 2 ; Foville, “ Apo- plexie Capillaire de la Substance Cerebrale, consecutive a l’Obliteration d’une veine Meningienne,” ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1869, 353 ; Kelly, “ Cerebral Haemorrhage in a patient 12 years of age: hemiplegia, aphasia, subsequent meningitis,” ‘Lancet,,’ 1869, ii, 541 ; Ib., “ Cases of Apoplexy with Atheroma of the smaller Arteries, and uniform Pulmonary Emphysema,” ib., 802 ; Pepper, “Cerebral Haemorrhage of left Anterior Lobe, left Crus Cerebri and Pons: marked degeneration of arteries, with numerous minute miliary aneu- risms, and circumscribed haemorrhages into the perivascular sheaths,” * Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci.,’ Iviii, 136. The Ophthalmoscope in Diseases of the Nervous System. Bouchut (quoted in the ‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ i86y, ii, 14) appears to have come to the following conclusions :—(1) Diseases of the spinal cord, as acute myelitis, spinal sclerosis, locomotor ataxy, &c., frequently induce a congestive lesion of the optic disc, which at a later period becomes atrophic. (2) The lesions of the optic nerve produced by dis- ease of the cord are the result of a reflex ascending congestive action, the great s) mpathetic nerve acting as the medium between the two. (3) The presence of hyperaemia of the optic nerve, of a reddish suffu- sion, or of a total or partial atrophy of the disc, coinciding with weak- ness and numbness of the lower extremities, indicates the existence of an acute or chronic disease of the spinal cord. Bouehut, “ Des Tubercules de la Choroi'de et de la Retine pouvant servir au diagnostic le la tuberculose cerebrale, ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1869, 2 ; Ib., “ Cerebroscopie,” ib® 113 • rlnnc ivu 6?6 diphtheritique droite, Cerebroscopie, Atrophie papillaire et emboiie dans 1 ceil gauche, nevnte congestive de la papille droite,” ib., 401 ; Ib., “ Des embolies du eerveau ehez les enfants et de leur diagnostic par la cerebroscopie,” ib., 233. Allbutt “On ‘he diagnostic value of the ophthalmoscope in tubercular meningitis!” ‘ Lancet’’ 1 19,1,59 . erthold, “ Ein Fall von Hamorrhagia retina: als Vorbote einer todlich verlaufenen Apoplexie,” ‘ Berl. Klin. Wool.,’ i869,4i5. Frankel, “ WeitereLobach tungen von Aderhauttuberkeln,” ib., 37. Robertlon, “Four cases of spinal mvosi/ with remarks on the action of light on the pupil,” ‘ Edinb. Med. Journ.,’ xv. 487.' ’