2 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. cases capable of ready explanation. The higher the degree of tempera- ture at the bottom the richer and more varied appeared to be the deve- lopment of animal life, and to a corresponding degree did the nature of the deposits at the sea bottom and the organic remains they presented vary, so that in point ol fact two deposits, containing very different forms of organic remains, may be occurring coincidently in the same waters— a circumstance of no slight importance in. a geological point of view. But if researches like these furnish information of the existence of an extensive and, till recently, unknown wealth of animal life in the abysses of the ocean, Prof. Tyndall, in a lecture on dust and haze, de- livered at the Royal Institution,* has shown that particles which are undoubtedly organic, and may possibly prove to be the germs of low types of animals and vegetables, are not less abundantly distributed through the air—a discovery that must obviously have au important bearing on the subject of spontaneous generation, which has recently, from the experiments of Dr. Charlton Bastian and the address of Prof. Huxley to the British Association at Liverpool, attracted so much attention. That the particles floating in all air that has not long been at perfect rest are really organic is shown by the fact that they are destroyed by heat, as is evidenced by transmitting an electric beam through a tube before and after it has been exposed to the flame of a spirit lamp. In the former case the track of the beam is marked by the reflection from the surfaces of these particles, whilst in the latter the track is undiscernible in consequence of their destruction. Dr. Tyn- dall points out the fallacy that underlies at least one of M. Pouchet’s experiments, from his neglecting the precaution to ascertain that his vessels were optically empty, whilst, on the other hand, he shows that the non-development of organisms in some of M. Pasteur’s experi- ments, under otherwise favorable circumstances, was probably due to the quiescence of the air in which his flasks were placed, and the con- sequent subsidence of all such floating organic matter. Certainly, no future experiments on this subject will be regarded as satisfactory unless careful provision has been made against this source of error. A remarkable series of papers, containing an account of a large number of experiments on the heterogeneous evolution of living things, has been published by Dr. C. Bastian,f in which, by repeating and modifying the well-known experiments of Pasteur and Pouchet, he finally sides with the latter, maintaining that there is strong a priori probability in favour of the possibility of the occurrence of such heterogeneous evolution. He states that he obtained various low forms of life, as bacteria, torula cells, spiral, fibres, and fungi, not only from infusions of organic substances, as turnips, hay, &c., but from solutions of such inorganic salts as tartrate and phosphate of ammonia and soda, &c., with or without sugar, in distilled water, after they had been exposed to a boiling temperature, and hermetically sealed whilst in a state of ebullition. Prof. Huxley, in his able address, and in his somewhat sharp criticism on Dr. Bastian’s experiments (‘ Nature,’ ii) strenuously contends for the opposite doc- trine of biogenesis, viz. that all living matter springs from pre-existing * ‘Proceed. Roy. Instit.,5 vi, 1870, p. 1 ; ‘Nature,’ i, 1870, pp. 339 and 449. f ‘Nature,’ ii, pp. 170, 193, 219.