BLOOD; CIRCULATION. 7 G Hayem * working with Yulpian on the frog, corroborates Cohnheim’s views in all essential facts, whilst Yulpian and Yolkmann and Stradenerf have shown that in erysipelatous inflammation occurring in man many white corpuscles are found collected around the vessels. Prof. Strieker J entertains no doubt whatever of the migration of large numbers of white corpuscles from the blood-vessels in inflammation, but considers that pus may be derived from other sources, as from epithelial cells, connec- tive-tissue corpuscles, and the corpuscles of muscle. J. Woodward § describes well-marked stomata as existing in veins of i-5otk inch in diameter, and as occasionally present in the capillaries and smaller arteries. Their size ranges from i-4000th to i-iooooth of an inch, and through these he has witnessed the escape of the white corpuscles. On the other hand M. Peltz|| denies the existence of stomata in the walls of the capillary vessels, and has been unable to observe the passage of the white corpuscles of the blood through the wall as described by Cohnheim and Recklinghausen. M. Picot % also believes Cohnheim’s views to be founded on an error of observation, and that the leucocytes seen outside the walls of the capillaries are formed where they are found ; he has been unable to find any stomata in the vessels. An argument in favour of Cohnheim’s views may be adduced in the observations of Saviotti** and Tschaussow,ff the former of whom witnessed the ab- sorption of pigment-cells into the blood-vessels of the frog’s web after irritation, whilst the latter observed the escape of pigment-corpuscles from the vessels. Finally, a good article, by Dr. Caton, appears in Humphry and Turner’s ‘Journal of Anatomy’ for Nov. 1870, on this subject, who states that he was unable to observe any cell-migration in winter frogs, but clearly followed it in the inflamed mesentery of strong and healthy spring animals, which perhaps in some measure reconciles the above discrepancy between • different observers. In experiments made on the transparent parts of fishes, he never noticed any migration of cells, but in tadpoles the migration of both red and white cells was seen in the absence of local inflammation. Dr. Bastianlf describes various organisms as being present in the blood in disease. E. Neumann §§ gives fuller details respecting his view that the medulla of the bones constitutes a focus for the formation of red blood- corpuscles, all intermediate forms of cells between a lymph-corpuscle and a blood-corpuscle being readily visible in it. Hoyer, in a communication upon the same subject, || || remarks that the medulla of bones possesses a structure essentially similar to that of the ]’ * ‘Archives de Medecine,’ Mars, 1870, p. 364. f ‘Archives de Medecine,’ Mars, 1870, p. 364. I ‘Quart. Journ. of Microscop. Science,’ 1870, p. 257. § ‘Monthly Microscopic Journal,’ Oct., 1870. II ‘ Comptes Rendus,’ 1870, i, p. 132, and p. 1228; and Robin’s ‘Journal de Anatomie,’ Jan. 1870. IT Idem, p. 1367. ** ‘ Centralblatt,’ Nos. 10 and n, 1870. ft Idem, No. 20. It ‘Pathol. Transact.,’ xx, p. 425. mh ' £rclliv- d- Heilkunde,’ i860, x, p.68: llll ‘ Centralblatt,’ 1869, Nos. 16 and 17. ‘C. Rendus,’ 1869, P* m2.