349 SURGERY. to the two essentials for recovery, namely, the complete evacuation of pus and the immobilization of the eyelids by a bandage. After fully discussing from various points of view the considerations which lead him to connect hypopyon with consecutive iritis rather than with rupture of the abscess—after assigning mechanical injury, expo- sure to cold, inflammation of the tear-passages and smallpox, as the principal causes of the malady—and after saying that no better result than a permanent leucoma can be hoped for in any case, while the eye may be wholly lost in those that progress unfavorably, the author proceeds to discuss the question of treatment. At first, this should be the same as for iritis, which, if not actually present, may com- mence at any moment. Both eyes should be protected from strong light and from abrupt changes of illumination, the accommodation should not be called into play, and the affected eye should be brought under the influence of atropine. At the same time, it is necessary to consider whether we have to deal with an actively inflammatory or an asthenic suppuration. In the former case we may have recourse to local depletion, to anodyne frictions on the forehead and temple, to mor- phia injections, to various derivatives and refrigerants, taking care not to lower the vital force of the patient. In the latter case we may employ tonics, good nourishment, wine, fresh air, and, locally, hot poultices or an occasional touch with some stimulating application, such as a finely pointed stick of diluted nitrate of silver. In either, indications for opening the abscess, or for evacuating the contents of the anterior chamber, may be furnished by manifest increase in the quantity of pus or in the tension of the eye-ball, and the author has generally made a puncture with an iridectomy knife. If the abscess should increase, or pain return, after twenty-four hours, the wound may be reopened with a Daviel’s spoon, but at a later period a fresh puncture must be made. Although repeated opening was long ago recommended by Himly, the experience of the author is not favorable to it, since he has not observed good results after two or three intro- ductions. The data recently published by Saemisch (whose ulcus serpens he holds to be really abscess) point to a further trial of the method and after any kind of puncture the careful application of a lightly compressive bandage is important, especial care being taken to avoid the production of inversion of the lower lid. The subject of trachoma and granulations has been dealt with at some length by Dr. Hairion,* who gives the following resume of his treatmentIn the first stage he prescribes careful watching against the communication of the disorder to others, and cauterization every six or eight days with fused sulphate of copper. A solution of nitrate of silver, of i to 60, is equally efficacious, but liable to injure the con- junctival tissue if used unskilfully. The solution of subacetate of lead, diluted with an equal quantity of distilled water, cures quickly when it is successful, but is in many cases followed by violent and obstinate reaction. Mucilage of tanniu is of more tardy efficacy, but it is quite harmless, and may be used by the patient. Under its influence the conjunctiva may even return to its physiological appearance. In the # ‘ Annales d’Oculistique/ 1870, i, p. 5.