REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 168 ib., xx, 163; id., “Two cases of Stricture of the (Esophagus,” ‘Lancet,’ 1870, ii 817 • Green, “ Perforation of the (Esophagus by a bougie; fatal,” cBrit. Med. Journ.,’1870! u, 650. ' Affections of the Stomach. Pollock (‘ Lancet,’ 1869, i, 289) publishes a clinical lecture on ner- vous dyspepsia, in which he gives a very good and by no means over- drawn picture of the disease as it ordinarily occurs. Women suffer most from it, but it is by no means rare among men. Many of its symptoms are so allied to hysteria that the functional disorder of the stomach may be overlooked. The patient complains of pain in the chest or “ heart,” which goes right through to the shoulders, and is often so bad that she can scarcely breathe. These pains come on in spasms, and are often accompanied by palpitation. They are generally worse after food; the patient is troubled with wind and generally con- stipated bowels. The tongue may be furred or unnaturally clean; there is sickness, anorexia, foul breath, and an unpleasant taste in the mouth, especially on waking in the morning. The nervous symptoms are very variable—great depression and anxiety, general nervousness, headache, noises in the ears, icy chills running up the spine, curious sensations of live things in the stomach and bowels, flutterings about the epigastrium, ball in the throat, &c. The catamenia may or may not be regular; often the patient has passed the climacteric period a year or two. The most important part of the treatment consists in great attention to the diet. At the commencement he gives a draught containing bicarbonate of potash, rhubarb, &c., with tincture of vale- rian, if the nervous symptoms are prominent, and every now and then the Pil. Aloes et Assafoetidae of the ‘British Pharmacopoeia,’ or Assafoe- tida alone if the bowels are regular. Later on, when the tongue is clean and the stomach less irritable, quinine is of service. Kussmaul (‘Deut. Arch.,’ vi, 455) gives in full twelve cases of dila- tation of the stomach, in which lie employed the pump to remove the contents of the latter, and subsequently washed the organ out with medicated fluids. The stomach-pump used was first constructed in America (by Wyman), and used for the evacuation of empyemas. Kussmaul made use of it for his new method, which he laid before the meeting of German naturalists and physicians at Frankfort, in 1867. The idea occurred to him first in the treatment of the following case, which is given very fully:—A girl, set. 25, had suffered from disorder of her stomach since her eleventh year. On her admission into hospital in April, 1867, her stomach was enormously distended, the dilatation being probably due to stenosis of the pylorus, hypertrophy of which part was recognised. There was chronic catarrh of the stomach, very great loss of flesh, and peculiar spasmodic attacks, with cramps in the extre- mities. For some time relief was obtained by the use of Yichy water, iodide of potash, &c.; but on July 22 she was as bad as ever, the dis- tress in the stomach and the frequent eructation causing great anguish and preventing sleep. The pump was used and about three litres of the acid contents removed from the stomach, which was washed out afterwards with Yichy water; this was followed by great relief. The