259 GANG11ENE OE THE PENIS. may have been, in reality, the prostrate adynamic state resulting from the gangrene, and not the cause of this.” Sometimes, howevei, it is otherwise. M. Earwel has related the case of a youug man, set. twenty- two, who came under his care with well-marked typhoid fever: at the en of the second week, oedema of the penis occurred, and was followed by gangrene of the prepuce and of the circumference of the penis for about five centimetres: the patient recovered. . Erysipelas may produce gan- grene of the penis : it is rarely, however, simple, spontaneous erysipelas , most commonly there is a wound or concomitant inflammation. It is especially met with as a result of operations in the vicinity of the penis. Gangrene of the glans has been observed in the course of glanderous affections (Vidal de Cassis). Ergot of rye may also produce it; but M. Demarquay has not met with a case. Local causes have always an active share in the production of gan- grene of the penis. The ancients explained all cases by reference to the effects of cold or heat; but this explanation is now held insufficient. Phimosis has long been recognised as a cause of gangrene. Ambroise Pare recommended amputation in such cases as the only means of saving the patient. Fortunately, however, death from gangrene caused by phimosis is very rare. In cases of phimosis, of balanitis, or of chancre beneath the prepuce, the secretions accumulating under the prepuce become changed, and produce irritation and inflammation, and,ultimately, gangrene of the prepuce and even of the glans. An operation for the cure of phimosis is sometimes followed by gangrene. Paraphimosis also favours the production of gangrene of the penis: masturbation also has been said to have the same result—most probably by inducing paraphimosis. The traumatic causes of gangrene of the penis are numerous ; among these are such as a ring or ligature applied to the organ; a calculus arrested in the urethra, or a foreign body introduced into the canal; and wounds of the organ. Cases of constriction of the penis by a ring or ligature are numerous. The fixing of a catheter or sound in the urethra is sometimes followed by gangrene. This generally occurs in old persons: it may arise either from the too tight tying in of the catheter, or from a generally debilitated state of the patient. Gangrene from the arrest of a foreign body in the urethra may take place at any age. The occurrence is rare; M. Demarquay has seen only one case, that of a man on whom he performed lithotrity, and in whom a fragment of calculus became lodged in the anterior part of the urethra. Dr. Gas- pard, of Eransac, has related the case of a man who introduced beans into his urethra; retention of urine and inflammatory symptoms fol- lowed, but the most prominent condition was gangrene, which invaded the entire penis and the scrotum. Both patients in the two last-men- tioned cases died. Chancres or other ulcers of the penis may produce gangrene; in such cases the work of destruction is rapid, and it is not rare to see a large extent of surface rapidly mortified. The most com- mon wounds, however, which produce gangrene are those where the vessels are divided by a cutting instrument. Dr. Vedrenes has related the case of a Kabyle, whose wife, a week after marriage, cut his penis across at the base, dividing the cavernous body and the greater part of