EXTRA-UTERINE GESTATION. 397 reached, the belly was pendulous, and the foetus was felt through t e walls ; gastrotomy was postponed for four days, then foetal movemen s had ceased. An incision was made very carefully, but so thin were the abdominal walls that the amniotic sac was pierced at once. A foe us of seven or eight months was extracted dead. Gentle tractions on the cord showed that the placenta was adherent to the anterior and inferior surface of the small intestines. It spread out star-shaped, losing itself by vascular irradiations amongst the intestines. It. was ascertained that the ovum had no other envelope than the amniotic membranes. The wound was closed, except at the lower part, for the exit of the cord ; the placenta being left. On the fifth day the placenta was decomposing, a portion was cut away ; fetid discharge set in. 1 eri- tonitis and obstinate vomiting appeared, and death followed on the tenth day. . Autopsy.—The intestines showed no trace of the placental insertion. But the singular feature was that the uterus, the size of a goose s egg and contained in the right iliac fossa where it had contracted adhesions, ' presented on its anterior surface an oblong opening communicating with the uterine cavity. Dr. Hennigsen relates an interesting case of abdominal gestation complicating uterine gestation. The patient, let. 37, had borne five children. Her second pregnancy resulted in the birth of a mature child having a large spina bifida, followed by metroperitonitis of the right side. After the fifth labour signs of pregnancy appeared, attended with frequent rigors and sudden acute peritonitic pains, and syncopes and tenesmus of bladder. Later a sanguineous discharge took place from the vagina. Later still foetal parts could be felt through the abdominal walls, and foetal movements became manifest, and after a time ceased. "When labour was expected, expulsion-like pains set in, and a decidua was discharged of the size of a goose’s egg. A month after this men- struation appeared, and at subsequent periods rigors and abdominal pains occurred. These signs recurred during the succeeding two years. The abdominal tumour greatly diminished in size, through the absorp- tion of the fluid contents of the sac. Signs of pregnancy again came. As the uterus grew, the abdominal gestation tumour was lifted up into the right half of the abdomen, eventually as high as the liver. The fundus uteri was then felt in the left hypogastric region. Subjective symptoms then became severe, distress in breathing was so great that it was determined to induce labour. This was done by means of the uterine douche ; a foetus of seven or eight months was expelled, and the placenta without difficulty. For ten days the patient did well; the abdominal gestation tumour descended nearly to its former position. Pains and fever set in, the tumour became tender, and during the next month symptoms of subacute inflammation in the tumour, with irritative fever, became marked. Pointing took place in the hypogastrium ; perforation ensued below the navel; an odourless ventral fluid escaped, showing numerous cells in fatty degeneration, free fat-molecules, and many large nucleated cells. Pulse, 120; temperature, 390 C. The opening was enlarged by laminaria. After two months a portion of umbilical cord was evacuated, but no hard portions of the foetus. Inflammation of the