155 EMBOLISM—PERICARDITIS. superior; Barck, “ Embolia et Thrombosis Arterim Iliacae Extern.,’’ ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ v, Hilliard, “Fatal Embolism of the Pulmonary Artery, and Thrombosis of the Saphena and Femoral Veins, from a patient who died suddenly of Typhoid Fever, *Path.Soc. Trans.,’ xix, 107; Gay, “Three specimens of Blood-clots within the Veins in process of organic union with the Vein-walls,” ib„ 166; Cannet, “ Note sur un Cas d’Embolies,” ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1869, 294; Fleury, “Fhlelute Rhumatisma e, ib., 33 i Ferrand, “ Emphyseme, Phlebite Crurale, Embolie cardiaque, guenson, ‘ Union Med., viii 762; Meade, “Cases of the Occlusion of Arteries by Emboli,” ‘ Brit. Med. Journ., 1870 ii 4 • Moxon, « Thrombosis of the Renal Veins,” ib., i, 167 ; Payne, “Coagulat.on in the Portal System of Veins,” ib., i, 347: Kelly, “Thrombosis of the middle Cerebral Arterv, white softening of the Brain,” ‘Lancet,’ 1870, i, 409; Heubner, Nachtiag zu meiner Abhandlung iiber Sinusthrombose im * Arch, der Heilkunde, same Aicnv, x, 224; Stokes, “Phlebitis of the Cerebral Sinuses, Disease of the Tympanum, ‘Dubl. Journ.,’ 1, 212; Smith, “Thrombosis affecting the Veins of the right side of tlm Neele and right Upper Extremity,” ib., 223; Hallopeau, “ Sur deux faits d’Obliteration Arterielle, disparition rapide des Accidents,” ‘ Gaz. de Paris,’ 1870, 295. Pericarditis. G-ueneau de Mussy (‘ Gaz. Hebd.,’ 1869, 804) calls attention to a sign, little recognised, which throws light on the diagnosis in obscure cases of pericarditis—the pain caused by pressure on the epigastrium, or over the precordial region. It is most common in the costo-xiphoid angle on both sides, or on one, the right quite as often as the left; at the same time and on the same side pain may be found on pressure between the two inferior attachments of the sterno-mastoid over the course of the phrenic nerve, just as in diaphragmatic pleurisy. His explanation is that the two branches of the phrenic nerve entwined in the fibrous tissue of the pericardium become the subjects of irrita- tion, which proceeds upwards along their trunks, and outwards to their terminations over the costo-xiphoid angle. This abnormal sensibility does not occur except on pressure. In several cases he has found it when the other signs were still obscure, and did not permit complete diagnosis. He considers it more constant than the precordial pain generally alluded to by authors. Schweder (‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1869, 363) gives the case of a recruit, jet. 22, who had been in hospital nine days for gonorrhoea, and had been discharged. Next day, without having experienced any chill, he was attacked with severe palpitation and pain in the region of the heart. On readmission there was heard, as the patient lay on his left side, a very loud, clicking murmur, synchronous with the impulse, lasting for 3—7 minutes, then becoming irregular and weaker, and finally inaudible. This murmur was so intense that it could be heard over the whole room, and even outside it. A deep inspiration caused its cessation. As the patient lay on his back the heart sounds were weak and clear, with a loud rasping friction sound besides. He considers that the murmur was caused by an inflammation of the part of the pleura overlying the pericardium, in addition to a simple pericarditis, which by itself would be insufficient to explain it; and that, when the patient lay on his left side, the two inflamed surfaces were pressed together by the heart, and then rubbed against one another by the impulse of the latter. The patient was treated with blisters and got rapidly well, though immediately after the disappearance of the pericardial symptoms a chronic gleet set in.