f ‘ Journ. de Pharm. et de Chimie,' July, 1870. t 488 REPORT ON MATERIA MEDICA, ETC. wave is followed by a dark overhanging wave, on which the mind is ship- wrecked and carried, with the sensation of a melancholy floating towards forgetfulness and oblivion, to be roused instantly by the passage over it once more of the wave of life and light. The dark waves chase each other so long as they continue, and the mind, unable to continue its thoughts and acts, but bending under a successive series of impressions, the shortest space of time seems to present the duration of an eternity. There was another singular condition excited by the narcotic; the in- fluence of the drug showed itself in exciting in the observers, so different themselves ordinarily in general character and temperament—one of them being of a sanguine, another of a nervous, and the third of a lymphatic temperament—a common docility and absence of susceptibility. These effects lasted more than six hours. Dr. Polli has employed haschish successfully in the treatment of melancholia; and also in hydrophobia, in doses of yf grains, repeated every four hours till five doses, or 38-j grains, had been taken. Lemon- juice and the vegetable acids generally are the best antidotes for an overdose of haschish. Tea and coffee heighten its effects. Convolvulaceoe.—G-. Zwicke,* under Kohler’s superintendence, has in- vestigated the chemical resemblances and differences of convolulin and jalapin, and ascertained the physiological properties of these active principles. He concludes—1. Convolulin is insoluble, while jalapin is readily soluble in ether ; convolvulin is easily soluble in benzole, whilst jalapin is with difficulty soluble in that menstruum. 2. If convolvulin be evaporated on a water-bath with nitric acid, and the residue touched with a drop of strong sulphuric acid, a dirty violet colour is produced. Jalapin, similarly treated, gives a yellow or orange colouration. 3. An alcoholic solution of convolvulin is not precipitated by an alcoholic solution of mercurous nitrate, whilst this reagent gives with an alcoholic solution of jalapin a voluminous precipitate, which is insoluble on boiling. 4. An acid solution of jalapin is precipitated by alkalies, whilst an acid solution of jalapin is not. Jalap.—Dr. Blacherf describes a ready method of detecting guaiacum. resin in the resin of jalap. He puts 30 centigrammes (yi grains) of guaiacum resin, and 29 centigrammes (3 grains) of oxide of copper, in a porcelain mortar, and adds about 20 drops of alcohol. When this mixture is triturated, nothing particular is observed, but, as soon as about 13 drops of solution of ammonia are added, a beautiful apple- green colouration is produced. When this experiment is repeated with resin of jalap, no such green colouration is seen, but the mixture re- tains its brown colour. A mixture of the two resins gives, of course, intermediate results, varying according to the respective amounts of the two resins present. * ‘ Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ 144, p. 147-