246 REPORT ON SURGERY. and can be made to rotate in its acetabulum, in which immediate shortening is ever found, with the exception of a fracture; and there is no form of fracture that occurs under like circumstances, with the exception of the impacted, that is, not accompanied by a crepitus which can be readily detected, complete eversion of the foot, and loss of power over the limb. In fact, the symptoms of an impacted fracture are most marked when taken together, and cannot well be misinterpreted. They are as marked as those of ordinary dislocation of the head of the femur, or of an ordinary non-impacted fracture of the neck of the bone.” Impacted fracture of the neclc of the femur.—In the ‘ Med. Jahrb. d. Wiener Gesellschaft d. AErzte,’ 1869, No. 3, will be found an elaborate account of the pathology of the accident, with a description of the preparations in the Berlin and St. Petersburg Museums, illustrated by lithographs. (Quoted ‘Med. Chir. Review,’ Oct., 1869.) United intra-capsular fracture of the femur.—A specimen in the Leeds Museum is figured and described, and the clinical history given in the ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 1, 1870. Mr. Holmes mentions a similar specimen contained in St. George’s Museum. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 8.) Dr. Packard exhibited a specimen of united intra-capsular fracture of the femur in an old woman. A committee appointed to report on this specimen agreed as to its nature. (‘ Amer. Journ. of Medical Sciences,’ April, 1870, p. 395.) Improved means of treatment of fractures of the lower jaw.—Dr. Bullock advocates Lonsdale’s splint on an improved plan. A mould is made for the teeth of the lower jaw (after a wax model has been taken) of ivory, metal, or vulcanised india-rubber, to which, opposite the bicuspid teeth, are fastened two strong wires passing up over the lip and out at each corner of the mouth, then curving down and having a ring at the end. A flat piece of wood (or other substance) is placed under the jaw and then fastened to the rings of the wire. The instrument is more sightly than Lonsdale’s. A woodcut is given. (‘ Amer. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ Oct., 1869.) Fractures of the patella.—In the ‘Med. Chir. Trans.,’ lii, p. 327, Mr. Hutchinson states the following, among many conclusions: 1. That, after the ordinary transverse fracture of the patella, the upper fragment is not permanently dragged upon by the quadriceps ; that, on the con- trary, the muscle remains quite passive, and that there is not the slightest benefit from elevation of the limb. 2. That the main cause of separation of the fragments is swelling of the soft parts and effusion into the joint, and that when swelling does not occur, or after it has subsided, it is easy to make the fragments touch. 3. That one of the chief causes of the frequent weakness of the fibrous union which results is the presence of fluid (synovia) between the fragments, and that it is not usually difficult by ordinary means, to bring the fragments quite close enough to admit of union, were it not that the presence of fluid