13 INTESTINE. tained in a similar manner from the salivary glands and pancreas is almost entirely free from proteids. A laden pancreas gave up a ferment capable of dissolving fibrin. . _ , ,, , , AVeiske * * * § demonstrates that cellulose is digestible, and that by using cooked vegetables the quantity that undergoes digestion is augmented. Briicket shows that the formation of the fatty acids from the fats by the agency of the pancreatic juice aids the absorption of the undecom- posed& fats. He also obtains from peptone two new substances, to which he has given the names of alkophyr and hydrophyr. G-. Albini aud BenzoueJ regard the columnar cells of the intestine as ciliated hut quiescent cells, covered with a protective horny investment. The cup-cells they found in the human foetus in the proportion of one to five of the columnar cells, and usually closed, containing a granular nucleated cell. In the adult the proportion between the two is as i : 20 ; they are rare in the large intestine, and have for their function to promote the process of resorption. A. Schlemmer§ has examined the glands of Brunner, and finds that they are lined throughout by columnar epithelium. Dr. Basch|| describes cup-shaped nuclei in the columnar epithelium of the intestine of a frog, after maceration in a one per cent, solution of boracic acid, but does not suggest any explanation or probable result of their presence. Dr. Paschutin^[ has conducted a series of researches on digestion in the laboratory of Prof. Setschenow, of St. Petersburgh, and has arrived at the following conclusions: The juice of the small intestine, obtained from a loop in the manner suggested by M. Thiry, possesses no action on fats, and scarcely any upon fibrin of blood or other albuminous compounds. The infusion of the intestine of the dog, however, can convert starch into sugar; in this acting like, only more energetically than, infusions of other mucous membranes, as those of the trachea and urinary bladder, which also contain much of the diastatic ferment. Next in order to them in point of activity stand the mucous linings of the gall-bladder, then those of the ctecurn and large intestine, and finally those of the rectum and stomach. The juice of the small intestine obtained by a fistula con- verted starch into sugar. No secretion could be obtained from a fistula of the large intestine. Of all mucous membranes that of the small intestine alone contains the ferment that is capable of converting cane into grape sugar; this is also contained in the secretion of the small intestine. It is remarkable, however, that this power is only pos- sessed by the small intestines of certain animals, as the dog, pig, rat, mouse, rabbit, and others, whilst it is absent in the ruminants. Those infusions that act both iu converting starch into sugar (a) and cane sugar into grape (b) contain not one but two ferments (a and b), * ‘Centralblatt,’ No. 26. 1870. t ‘ Wien Akad. Sitzungsberichte,’ lxi. + ‘ Rendiconti della Acad. d. sc. fis. e. mat. di Napoli,’ 1868. § ‘Wien Akad. Sitzungsberichte,’ lx. || ‘Centralblatt,’ 1869, P- 33I> *[ ‘Centralblatt,’ No. 36, 1870.