436 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. influence in the apnoeic upon the respiratory centre. In whatever way and in whatever degree the skin-irritation is effected, the apnoea con- tinues until the blood has become venous enough to excite the respira- tory centre. Schwartz confirms what Donders observed, that the rhythmical contractions of the diaphragm are already in full play before the chemical irritation of the vagus appears by its influence upon the heart.. In application to labour, Schwartz says the retardation of the pulse in the foetus during the pains is due to the regular influence of the labour-pressure. The pulse retardation from labour-Dains begins in 35 per cent, of all the cases during the stage of dilatation, in 46 per cent, first during the expulsion-stage, and is absent in 19 per cent., or only appears when the head is traversing the vulva. This is not limited to head-births, but is quite independent of the presentation. Schwartz has repeatedly seen it in uncomplicated cases of natural breech-labour up to the passage of the shoulders and head, and also in oblique pre- sentations before as well as after the rupture of the membranes. The prognostic value of this induced phenomenon is underestimated. In full a third of the cases in which the retardation returning with every pain has been perceived for some time before the escape of the head, this is not limited to the period of the pain, but continues between the intervals, and the child comes into the world more or less obviously affected in its respiration. The temperature-variations in diseases of children are carefully inves- tigated by Mr. Squire (‘Obst. Trans.,’ 1870). Typhoid fever in its ataxic form, when it presents the greatest resemblance to meningitis, is readily discriminated by the temperature, this rising from 20 to 40 higher in typhoid. In the sthenic form of typhoid an intercurrent bronchitis or pneumonia is accompanied by a greater temperature dis- turbance than would be caused by either of these complications, while the disturbance of the pulse and respiration is less than that met with in simple pulmonary disease. Dysentery and enteritis are readily dis- tinguished even from the slighter forms of typhoid by their lower range of temperature. In scarlatina, though the disturbance of temperature is often extreme, it is insufficient for diagnosis. A temperature as low as 990 D. has been met with on the second day in a vigorous subject with full rash; in influenza, with no other complication than full tonsils, the temperature may continue at ioi° till the fourth or fifth day; with ulcers on the tonsils, or herpes on the lip and face, the temperature on the second day may exceed 102°. A low temperature is often sufficient to enable a diagnosis to be speedily arrived at that otherwise must be uncertain or be delayed ; a lad exhausted by fatigue and exposure might have been taken to have typhoid or scarlatina but for this test. In laryngismus stridulus the low temperature invariably accompanying the associated states of irritation and defective nutrition at once serves to distinguish the spasm from laryngitis. The indica- tions of the thermometer often afford the first revelation of unsuspected disease—pneumonic consolidation, for example. Squire says he has fre- quently seen children forced to exertion and sent out of doors, when a single temperature-observation would have shown the necessity for rest.