220 REPORT ON SURGERY. 44-83 ; 111 England, 34-37. Of twelve cases of this resection, operated on in Paris, all died. Two cases, in the same period, operated on at Strasburg, were successful, the only ones in France that were so. (‘ Oaz. Med. de Paris,’ No. 28, 1869, and ‘Ed. Med. Journ.’) Removal of the tongue.—In the ‘Brit. Med. Journal,’ Nov. 3, 1866, are recorded five cases of removal of the whole tongue by Mr. Nunneley (Leeds). In the ‘ Lancet,’ Jan. 9, 1869, is a note on seven other cases operated on since then by Mr. Nunneley; they were all successful. Latterly the details of the operation had been modified slightly. A sharp- pointed blade, curved on the edge, about four inches long, and having m the broad end an open eye carrying the wire rope of the ecraseur, is passed about midway between the jaw and the hyoid bone, but rather nearer the former, and exactly in the median line, into the mouth, and is brought out at the frsenum linguae and as near the tongue as possible, and the blade removed. The loop of the wire is passed over the tongue, which is drawn out of the mouth as far as possible by Liier’s tongue- forceps, and is pushed as far back as necessary by au instrument slightly curved to accommodate itself to the tongue, and having two branches, at the end of each of which is a notch to receive and pusb backwards the wire. By this means the latter is kept in position, and may be fixed to any part of the tongue, even to its extreme base. The loop is then held until the screw of the ecraseur has been tightened so as gently to fix the rope. Up to this point there has been but little pain, and the voluntary efforts of the patient have materially assisted. He may now be put fully under chloroform; the screw of the instru- ment is steadily and deliberately tightened and the tongue gradually cut through. Twice only has there been any haemorrhage, and in both cases the tongue was unusually soft and cut through too quickly. A ligature stopped the bleeding. Each of the three last cases left the hospital about the tenth day. In his address before the British Medical Association Mr. Nunneley stated that he had removed the entire tongue by bis method nineteen times without a single untoward occurrence, and that Dr. Fenwick, of Montreal, had operated on two occasions successfully. Mr. Christopher Heath (‘Lancet,’ Jan. 16, 1869) records a case of cancer of the tongue and floor of the mouth in a man aged 60. The lower jaw was divided in the median line, and the growth removed by the ecraseur. The man recovered, but the same difficulty was met with as in other cases operated on in a similar way, that the jaw would not unite for some time. He left the hospital in about three months. A case of removal of the whole tongue is recorded by Mr. Reid, of Geelong, in the ‘ Lancet,’ Oct. 23, 1869. The lower jaw was divided. The jaw united well and quickly. The patient died in rather more than six months of extension of carcinoma. Mr. MacGillivray has removed the whole tongue successfully for epi- thelioma. He divided the lower jaw. At the end of ten weeks the union of the jaw was firm, but not quite solid. Pressure with the fin- gers did not detect any mobility, but when he depressed and elevated the jaw there was seen to be a little lateral movement, as shown by the