444 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. alterations arc variable, whilst the symptoms and the kidney alteration are constant, it is to the kidney the symptoms must be ascribed. And this conclusion is strengthened by the observation, that iu intestinal catarrh uncomplicated with nephritis the above-named brain-symptoms are not found. ^Paul Schmidt, of Hamburg, investigates with care (‘Journ. f. Kinderkr.,’ 1870) the laws of growth of children, and the means of pro- moting and retarding it. Soemmering drew attention to the fact that growth was not uniform in rate, but took place by starts, being at times slower, then quicker. The spinal cord appears to acquire its permanent growth about the seventh year; at least the vertebral column does not after that increase in width. The medulla oblongata, which at birth is 6'" broad, is in the first year 9'", and in the second year 12"'; about this time the olivary bodies and the pencillings of the rhomboidal space become more distinct. The cerebellum, according to Soemmering’s observations, weighs in the new-born three and a half drachms, in the seven year old over four ounces; the cerebrum weighs at birth ten ounces, at seven years thirty-one ounces. As then the proportion in new-born to the child seven years old of the cerebellum is 1 : 9, that of the brain is 1: 3, so the first passes through its development to its per- manent proportion more quickly. The cerebellum grows during this time more in breadth than length, whilst the cerebrum gains more in length. Referring to the researches of Burdach on the growth of the skull, he dwells upon the preponderant growth of the head in infancy; next, the chest exhibits the greatest growth ; the limbs increase later. He then cites the researches of Litharzig as of special interest. He experimented on 300 individuals, and concluded that six long dimen- sions must be taken:—1. Prom the vertex to the chin. 2. Prom the chin to the upper margin of the sternum. 3. Prom the upper margin of the sternum to the point of the ensiform process. 4. Prom this apex to the upper border of the symphysis pubis. 3. The whole length of the thigh and leg. 6. Prom the upper edge of the inner malleolus to the edge of the sole. Litharzig concludes that when these six dimen- sions are given, and that you have also the length of the clavicle, you may construct the body in all its details, a matter of importance to sculptors. Growth lasts for twenty-five years, and comprises twenty-four epochs. The first comprises the first month, and every succeeding epoch embraces one month more than the preceding epoch. The total sum amounts to 300 months, and the twenty-four epochs Litharzig divides into three periods :—the first from birth to the end of the 21st month; the second from the 21st month to the 71st; the third from 71st to 300 ; and shows that, during the first, growth is very energetic, in the second slower than in the third. This agrees generally with Soemmer- ing, Sue, and Quetelet. The author adds little on the causes which retard or promote growth; but states the following hygienic propositions 1. Every inherited dyscrasia must be studiously counteracted, as rickets, scrofula, syphilis. 2. Advancing deformities must be treated early. 3. Ad- vancing muscular hypertrophy may be treated by electricity and fric- tions. 4. Diet, air, &c., must be adapted to the case. 3. He insists