183 DISEASES OE THE KIDNEYS. affected one. He recommends energetic diaphoresis in ursemic attacks, as removing from the body the useless and hurtful products of con- sumption. In conclusion, he shows by tables that sweating is greater in the morning than in the evening, and therefore recommends the use of the bath during the former. He gives in full the case of a man, tet. 45, who died from nephritis and pyelitis, and on whose face and forehead crystals of urea were seen a day or two before death. In reference to this secretion of urea by the skin, recognised up to the present time only, and that not often, in cholera, Kaup and Jiir- gensen (ib.,vi, 55) give full reports of two cases in which it was present. In the first, a man, set. 40, the crystals of urea appeared on the day of death over the whole body, but more especially on the forehead, cheeks, and chin. The autopsy showed granular kidneys. In the second case, observed fourteen years later, the same appearance of urea crystals was seen two days before death in a man, let. 57, suffering from caries of the lumbar vertebrae, &c. After death the heart, kidneys, &c., were normal; the walls of the bladder were enormously thickened. The authors discuss at length the reason of the excretion by the skin of the urea. Deininger (ib., vii, 587) publishes the case of a boy, set. 5-k years, who had had scarlet fever, and was attacked at the end of the second week with nephritis and suppression of urine (anuria), lasting eight days. On his skin, also, crystals of urea were found. While the cases re- corded by Jiirgensen and Leube were fatal, this patient recovered. Considering the vicarious action of the skin proved, he also recommends diaphoretic measures in all cases of diminished or abolished secretion of urine. Bence Jones (‘St. Georg. Hosp.Bep.,’ 1869, 1) sums up our present knowledge on the action of acids and alkalies. The latter promote absorption ol deposits of urates, fatty and fibrinoid matters ; the former dissolve albuminous food in the stomach, and (?) phosphates in the mine. Acids, both mineral and vegetable, lessen heat (temperature) probably by retarding oxidation, which is promoted by alkalies. By experiments he found that lemon-juice affects only slightly the real diurnal variations of the acidity of the urine, and that even three drachms daily of dilute sulphuric acid affected its alkalinity less than the ordinary process of digestion did. Thudichum (‘Bep. Off. Priv. Counc. for 1869,’ p. 270, &e.) gives a method for the determination of the amount of uric acid in urine which is said to give most satisfactory results. Owen Bees (“On the early Indications of Nephritic Irritation,” .y f HosP- Bep., xiv, 431) calls attention to the method of testing urine by means of tincture of galls for extractives of the blood, as most a aluable for the detection of approaching albuminuria, and gives shortly three typical cases which occurred in his practice. 7 G-ilewski (‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1869, No. 60), on the connection between hypertrophy of the heart and Bright’s disease, considers that it has been iong demonstrated that Traube“s view is wrong. He holds that neurosis probably occurs in the course of the affection, essentially ot an excito-motor nature. In this way there might be lone-continued embarrassment of the heart, leading gradually to hypertrophy