251 CALCULUS VESIC/E. adherent to the placenta or its membranes, and the separation of the adhesions by the process of parturition gives rise to the appearance of cicatrix in parts. This adhesion explains how it is that only the super- ficial portions of the affected structures are found deficient. Another result is the diminution in the distance between the umbilicus and genital organs. All these peculiarities belong to the foetus in the begin- ning of the second month. The author gives also a history of previous operative procedures. Lithographic plates accompany the paper. A lecture by Prof. Billroth will be found in the ‘ Med. Times and Graz.,’ March 12, 1870. Mr. Barker, of Melbourne, records a cure of a case of congenital exposure of the bladder, in an adult female. The procedure adopted consisted in denuding the opposite margins of the opening, and bringing the parts together with deep metallic sutures and superficial horsehair sutures. Incisions were made to relieve tension. After three opera- tions the deformity was cured, and the patient was able to retain her urine, when lying down, for two hours. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ July 30, 1870, report ‘Med. Chir. Soc.’) Mr. Annandale notes a case of unclosed urachus, with umbilical fistula, in a man aged 39. He alludes to four other cases. In all these some complication occurred in connection with the bladder, but in his there was none. (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Eeb., 1870.) M. Graujean (in a thesis) relates a successful case operated on by M. Michel—the first in France. The patient was a male, fourteen months old. Super-imposed flaps—the one abdominal, the other lateral —are preferable. The union of the autoplastic flaps should rather be by their surfaces than their edges. The operation should be performed at the end of the first year, or as soon after as possible. A complete bibliography is given. (‘ Gazette Medicale de Strasbourg,’ Dec. 23, 1868, quoted in ‘Brit. Med. Journal,’ Eeb. 27, 1869.) Puncture of bladder above piobes.—Prof. Dittel advocates the use of vulcanised caoutchouc after tapping the bladder above the pubes, so as to allow the patient to get up and walk about. (‘ Med.-Chir. Bev.,’ July, 1870, p. 273, ‘ Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit.,’ Jan. 4.) Calculus with a tooth for a nucleus.—In the ‘American Journal of Medical Sciences,’ Jan., 1869, Dr. Blackman relates the case of a woman from whom several calculi were removed at intervals, consisting of teeth incrusted with calcareous matter. From the progress of the case, the symptoms being similar to those recorded in other cases, it was concluded that there was a communication between the bladder, ovary and rectum.. A very complete summary is given of all the cases hitherto published in which hair and teeth were met with in the human bladder. Calculus with human hair as a nucleus.—In the ‘ Pathological Trans- actions, ’ 1869, p. 238, Mr. Curling records the case of a man from whom he removed a calculus by lithotomy at the London Hospital. On examination the calculus was found to contain human hair as a