REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 464 Dr. Mitchell* has since made further observations, and concludes in regard to the influence of the opium alkaloids on birds as follows: i. Birds, namely, ducks, chickens, and pigeons, are never poisoned by crude opium, its aqueous extract, or acetum opii (black drop), given inter- nally; while the salts of morphia must be given in enormous doses to produce fatal effects when administered in the same manner. 2. Mor- phia salts, used hypodermically in excessive amounts, never cause sleep or stupor, but act as excitants (convulsants) upon the motor centres. In some instances the spasms are tetanoid in character; but in the duck they approach nearest to the typical strychnine spasm. 3 The- baia is a tetanising agent, only inferior in energy to strychnia and brucia. Narcotine, almost inert in man, destroys birds when employed hypodermically, in doses of from two to seven grains. Codeia is a fatal convulsing agent in birds (pigeons). Meconine causes emesis when given internally, and is harmless if placed under the skin. Narceia has no perceptible influence except to disturb slightly the respiratory function. Cryptopia,"in doses of one fifth to one half grain, has no effect. None of these agents cause sleep in the pigeon, duck, or chicken. The inaction of opium is due, he 6believes, to two causes: first, to the very great slowness with which it as well as morphia is absorbed. The remaining amount of protection necessary to constitute an insurance against fatal results must be due to the great difficulty with which pigeons, especially old birds, are poisoned by opiates. Pro- bably elimination is sufficiently rapid to protect the system against a dangerous accumulation of the drug. Pigeons, and probably other birds, seem to possess the same peculiarity which causes certain men to exhibit, under opiates, only excitement of the motor ganglia, emesis, and a restlessness, which, with fuller doses, might possibly eventuate in convulsions—a rare incident of opium poisoning, which, however, occurred early in a case which the author has elsewhere reported. Gelseminum sempervirens.—Dr. J. T. Mainf describes how, in 1866, he took through mistake one drachm of fluid extract of this plant, which is much used in America as a therapeutical agent. In a short time he became nearly blind, control over the upper eyelid was almost en- tirely lost, the flexor muscles of the hands and arms were paralysed, whilst the extensors were nearly so. Sensation in the hands and arms was blunted, but not in proportion to the loss of motion. The speech was somewhat affected, and a disagreeable sensation was felt in the head even before the muscles came under the influence of the drug; but the mind was quite clear. In this state he requested the poles of a galvanic battery to be applied to his hands, which was done. He was instantly ^relieved ; and not only was the relief instantaneous, but it was perfect and permanent. Dr. Main has since tried the same remedy on persons pretty well under the influence of gelseminum, and with equally satisfactory results. The name gelseminine has been assigned by Dr. WormleyJ to a new alkaloid extracted from the above plant. G-elseminine is, in a pure state, colourless, odourless, solid, having an intensely bitter taste. It * ‘ Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc.,’ lviii, p. 17- f Ibid., p. 292. X Ibid., lix, p. 581.