HiEMOllUlIAGE : TRANSFUSION. 4-23 Small pieces of the surface were steeped in weak hydrochloric acid, whereupon the black colour disappeared. Prussiate oi potash added to this solution caused a red colour, and sulphide of ammonium added to the neutralised solution caused a turbed black-grey colour. Y. Haselberg then discusses the features of the case and the pre- cautions to be adopted in intra-uterine injections. He has derived the most signal advantages from the practice. Opinions differ widely as to the possibility of injected fluids passing along the tubes into the abdo- men. The experiments of Hennig and Klemin on the dead hoc y prove how difficult it is under normal conditions to inject through the -fallo- pian tubes. . . , On the operation of transfusion.—Dr. M‘Donnell makes some inter- esting remarks on transfusion. He contends tor its more frequent ap- plication. He advocates defibrination, and describes a convenient apparatus for the operation. (‘ Dubl. Quart. Journ. of Med., 1870.) . . -ii A secundipara was admitted at the Heidelberg Clinique with oedema, albuminuria, commencing labour, and convulsions. Delivery was acce- lerated by forceps. The child was dead, macerated. She was bled, had ice to head, glyster, morphine injections, chloroform, cold douche to head. After thirty-two fits, being in the highest degree exhausted, in deep sopor, transfusion was resorted to. Blood defibrinated was used; seven ounces was injected. The pulse rose ; breathing became freer; cynosis disappeared; sleep followed. She recovered. (‘ Prager Vrtl- jhrsch.,’ 1868.) Dr. Schatz relates a case of transfusion which, although unsuccessful, is interesting, in that the introduction of defibrinated blood into the vein was frequently interrupted by coagulation, a circumstance Schatz thinks due (probably erroneously.—R. B.) to the coolness of the tem- perature of the injection-fluid. Section showed thrombosis and circum- scribed phlebitis. (‘Arch. f. Gynakol.,’ 1870.) Dr. Gentilhomme relates a case of remarkable interest. A woman was delivered of her second child in May, 1864. At the beginning of 1865 she had a profuse flooding, which was renewed at the next men- strual epoch. A fibroid the size of a fist was found. The bleedings were repeated, so that extreme anaemia was induced, attended with the most threatening symptoms. Transfusion was determined upon. A healthy woman supplied 125 grammes of blood; the apparatus of Monroy was used. During the first moments of the operation nothing remarkable was observed, but when the stated quantity of blood had been injected the patient, whose cheeks had become reel, cried out, “ I am suffocating.” Symptoms of asphyxia, thumping of the heart, general shivering, pains in the chest and loins, falling of the pulse which had previously risen, general coldness, vomiting, and great thirst, set in. These symptoms lasted two and a half hours, then gradually subsided; the breathing became easier, the pains went away, the pulse became strong and regular, 120, warmth returned. From this time she gra- dually mended, taking soup, chicken, and wine. Some time afterwards symptoms of peritonitis appeared, and pus flowed from the uterus. It was found that the fibroid tumour had been cast into the cavity of the