HE PORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. lao diphtheria from the wound. Complete seclusion was almost always accompanied by success. After describing the epidemic, in which the most various forms might have been seen occurring at the same time in large families, and declaring that no means used can command any special success, he concludes that there are two therapeutical indica- tions : i. A prophylaxis, strictly carried out, at the outbreak and during the course of the epidemic: 2. The majority of cases recover by judi- cious management without specific treatment; in severe cases, so far as present knowledge goes, the indications for treatment are, (a) to oppose the symptoms of anaemia and marasmus, set up by the cachexia, by good food, wine, quinine, and in the worst cases by artificial nourish- ment through the oesophageal tube, and perhaps by transfusion; (b) to oppose the symptoms caused by the extension of the affection to the trachea; by tracheotomy, and by cleansing of the trachea with a soft catheter. Bahrdt (£Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,’ liii, 96) gives the case of a child ast. af in which he considers a diphtheritis of the fauces and laryngeal croup followed diphtheritis of a wound of the right hand, the mem- brane making its appearance on the wound on the fourth day, and the laryngeal mischief on the sixth ; tracheotomy was performed on the eighth day, but the child died. The autopsy showed false membrane extending from the tonsils to the bifurcation of the bronchi, with miliary tubercles in the lungs and nowhere else. Billroth (‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1870, No. 8) records two fatal cases in which undoubted diphtheritis of the fauces appeared in consequence of septicaemia and pyaemia ; in the first case after removal of a tumour in the lower jaw; in the second, after a cellular inflammation set up by a bite, which led to disarticulation of the humerus. He discusses the connection between diphtheria and the two other affections,and concludes from experiments made by different observers, that a complete identity between the etiological influence and results of faucial diphtheritis and septic inflammation cannot as yet be proved, though probably an etio- logical relation between them does exist. Weickert (‘Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk,,’ liii, 3,32) gives a case with autopsy of diphtheria and lucmorrhagic pneumonia in a female child seven days old. "Politzer (ib. 338) also gives a case with autopsy of diffuse puriform meningitis and purulent deposits in the joints after a diphtheritic con- junctivitis of the left eye in a female child of 4-J months. Hirschberg (£ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1869, 27), writing on the etiology of diphtheritis conjunctive, relates that of fifty-four cases observed for a vear and a half in Yon Graefe’s clinique, thirteen were adults, the rest children, chiefly between the ages of two and five years. In the former the affection was always local, and in six at least seems to have been due to gonorrhoea (!), and in one case only was it dependent on a severe diphtheritic stomatitis and pharyngitis. Among the children, the majority of cases, besides a number of sporadic ones, occurred epidemically, with varying intensity. In the first three of them only was it complicated with angina diphtheritica ; though at the same time angina, measles and scarlet fever were relatively less frequent in