86 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. growths were present in the right kidney, which was also amyloid. The right suprarenal capsule was normal. The left kidney was smaller than the right, with extensive hydronephrosis. In the largely de- veloped fatty tunic of the kidney the echinococcus-sac had grown in such a way as nowhere to touch its surface. The connective tissue sac, in which the brood-sac had established itself, was shrunk to a canal of eight centimeters in length, and of the same size at its broadest part. There was no trace of echinococci. The left supra-renal body was four times its normal size ; its tissue on section the colour of smoked salmon, firm, without any distinction of the three layers, and broken up by islands and processes of tbe connective-tissue septa, given off from the capsule. Under the microscope all its arteries had undergone amyloid degeneration. From the circumstances of the case Wolff believes that the amyloid affection of the left supra-renal body was developed after interstitial changes had already taken place in it. The third case, still alive: a journeyman joiner, set. 20, who had suffered from intermittent fever about his sixth or seventh year, and since then had been changing in colour. Just before his admission he had been attacked with febrile symptoms, which latter gave way to nervous symptoms, and the general characteristics of morbus Addisonii. Wolff looks upon the fever as due to some nervous origin. Sobet (‘ Presse Med. Beige,’ 1870, p. 165) records a case of morbus Addisonii in a man, set. 39, who had suffered from intermittent fever. After death were found enlarged spleen, pulmonary tubercle, and fatty atrophy of the supra-renal bodies. The blood contained pigmentary granules, and an increased number of white cells. Kuhlmann (‘ Berl. Klin. Wochensch.,’ 1869, 481) publishes the following:—A man, set. 33, who had formerly had intermittent fever, had, during the hot summer of 1867, worked in the sun, and com- plained later of exhaustion and headache. He noticed that the skin of his face and hands became more and more coloured, the colouration, which, according to Kuhlmann, was grey, extending to parts covered by his clothes, especially his neck and thighs; at the same time he complained of a dull pain in the loins, increased by pressure. The patient’s strength gradually failed, and he died in high fever. The autopsy showed old indurations at the apex of the left lung, and disease of both supra-renal bodies. The left was shrunken, its tissue degene- rated, medullary and cortical substance being indistinguishable. Here and there were several deposits the size of millet-seeds. The capsule of the right body was thickened and cartilaginous, its upper part ad- herent to the liver. Ou opening the capsule there escaped about six grammes of yellowish-white thin pus. The upper part of the body was eroded at the edges and contained pus, its tissues completely lost in a grey homogeneous mass resembling tubercle. The microscopic exami- nation by Kindfleisch showed that the cheesy masses (knoten) had already destroyed the greater part of the body; in one place, however, enough altered parenchyma remained to allow the infiltration of the septa with small cells, in which the process began, to be accurately followed. The capsule was enormously thickened, and adhered to the neighbouriug