159 MYOCARDITIS ENDOCARDITIS. Ventricle of the Heart, with partially ossified walls, winding round the root of the aorta ” ib., 149 i Murray, “ Dissecting Aneurism of the wall of the right side of the Heart, lb , xx! iti; Walford, “Aneurism of the Heart,” ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869, 11,6; Bennett, “Fatty Degeneration of the Heart (in a woman, set. 24), ill., 1870, 1, 400; King, “ Sudden Death from Degeneration of the Heart, chiefly of the column® carneae of the left ventricle,” ib., ii, 412; Gairdner, “Bronchitis, with slight Dropsy: albuminuria. hypertrophy of left ventricle of heart,” ib., 649. Endocarditis. Johnson (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1870, i, 229) describes the morbid anatomy of acute endocarditis. He considers that the reason why the pathological changes are often limited to the left side of the heart is, that the morbid element of acute rheumatism, which is the most fre- quent cause of endocarditis, is contained more abundantly in arterial than in venous blood ; and in support of this view he quotes Bichard- son’s experiment, in which lactic acid was injected into a dog’s peritoneum, with resulting endocarditis and fibrous deposit on the tricuspid valves—the acid thus absorbed coming, in this case, first in contact with the right side of the heart. He maintains that the imme- diate cause of the fibrinous deposit, which constitutes the vegetations of endocarditis, is the altered physical condition of the lining mem- brane, which results from its being inflamed. This explanation, essen- tially the same as that given by Rokitansky (‘ Path. Anat.,’ iv, 222), he supports by the experiments and arguments of Simon, Mackenzie, and Lister. Hyde Salter (‘Lancet,’ 1869, ii, 113, &c.) insists that too much stress in the localisation of heart murmurs is laid upon conduction alone, whereas it is really determiued by conduction and convection; and that by the latter agency the seat of a cardiac murmur is often displaced to a considerable distance from the seat of its generation. He finds it impossible to say at present why a murmur may be thus transferred in one instance, and not in another. In illustration of his arguments he gives six cases. The first was that of a youth, set. 19, who had had rheumatic fever five years before, and in whom was heard a murmur, double at the mitral orifice, presystolic at the apex, systolic in the axilla and round to the back—a murmur therefore of obstructive and regurgitant mitral disease. He does not remember to have met with a case before in which, as in this, a mitral regurgitant murmur appeared to be absolutely inaudible at the apex, and he thinks that the case, as described in full, proves that a valve so far imperfect as to allow regurgitation, and give rise to considerable regurgitant murmur, may yet close sufficiently sharply and completely to generate a natural first sound; and that sounds generated by blood friction, and by valve- tension, are not conducted by the same means or media—the latter being conducted by the ventricular wall to the apex, the former con- veyed by the blood to the auricle. The second case was that of a man, mt. 31, who had had three attacks of rheumatic fever. Here there were two murmurs at the aortic orifice, a loud diastolic murmur carried by the regurgitating blood back into the ventricle, down to its very apex, and heard there; and a systolic murmur carried onwards into the