AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER. 177 the axillary line, brought away only a little blood. Two days later another puncture, two centimetres lower, gave exit to pus; and alter making an incision through the skin and cellular tissue, which was filled with charpie for the purpose of obtaining adhesive peritoneal inflamma- tion, a bistoury was plunged in and gave exit to 250 grms. of a blackish pus, said to be “ characteristic of hepatic suppurations.’ Pus continued to form for some time afterwards in small quantities. In the discussion which followed a suggestion of empyema Avas made. Ye drones (‘ Eec. de Mem. de Med. Milit.,’ xxii, 329) gives a case of liver abscess which was opened, in a man, set. 24. It followed purulent infection from wounds of the head and hand. The patient recovered. Peacock (‘Trans. Path. Soc.,’ xix, 243) contributes the case of a man, set. 31, a discharged soldier, in whom an abscess in the left lobe of the liver had burst into the right pleural sac, the opening between the two cavities, which were filled with a thick dirty yellow pus, being large enough to admit the whole hand easily. The lung was entirely com- pressed ; there were several huge ulcerated spaces on its surface, by which the empyema had found its way to the bronchi a month before death. The colon displayed numerous ulcers over a large extent, some of old date, others more recent. The patient had gone to India at the age of twenty-one, had led a regular life, and had suffered from attacks of fever, but no serious illness. Three days after landing in England he was attacked with diarrhoea, and was never entirely well afterwards. Lyons (‘Med. Press and Circ.,’ 1869, i, 9) relates a case of abscess of the liver in a woman, set. 56. The autopsy showed a large multilo- cular abscess in the right side (sic) of the liver, together with three others of considerable dimensions. Within three years he had seen twelve cases of the disease, in one only of which jaundice was present. The “ new” treatment of abscess of the liver employed by Blanc (‘Lancet,’ 1869, ii, 77, &c.) consists in the application of Vienna paste (Potassa c. Calce, Ph. L.) between but not on the ribs. Of the four cases given, “ in which it was employed successfully,” the diagnosis in the first seems somewhat doubtful; in the three others the hepatic abscess had opened into the right lung, before the “ new” treatment AAras adopted. Heaton, “Three Cases of Liver Abscess,” ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869, ii, 8; Moore, 7 Extensive Hepatic Abscess,” ib., 1870, ii, 693; Harley, “ Injury to the Liver, resulting in Abscess,” ‘Lancet,’ 1870, ii, 569. (b) Parenchymatous hepatitis; acute atrophy.—Leichtenstern (‘Zeitschr. f. rat. Med., xxxvi, 241) gives a case of acute “liver atrophy with recotmry in a woman, set. 27. Five weeks before her admission into hospital she had four times vomited blood, and was supposed to be suffering from ulcer of the stomach. On admission there was slight icterus, symptoms of gastric catarrh, no pyrexia, and normal liver- clulness; the urine was strongly coloured with bile, and the stools Avere those usually found in jaundice. The icterus increased; the patient passed through successive conditions of apathy, delirium, depression and coma. The liver was made out to be smaller, the spleen "reatly enlarged. Alter five days she became better, but had another attack of 12