127 (EDJ4HA GLOTTIDIS, day of the affection with perfect success; on the fourteenth day, six days after the operation, the canulawas removed, and twenty days a er the fistulous opening was completely closed. . Grazais (ib., 70) contributes a case of oedema of the larynx m a larm labourer, set. 56, who, after an attack of intermittent fever, had suffered from oedema of the neck, left arm, and hand. There was no albumi- nuria, no abnormal symptom of any organ. Incision was made with a bistoury into the swollen parts (the velum palati and its pillars). . Suf- focative attacks followed at short intervals, and disappeared imme- diately after the performance of tracheotomy. The canula was with- drawn two days afterwards, and the edges of the wound brought together. Five days later the oedema ol the upper extremity had disappeared and was present in the lower. The general health was better. Barthez (ib., 122) gives a case of oedema of the glottis occurring in a child, set. 4I years, who had had hooping-cough for about three months, and was subject to angina and occasional nocturnal fits of suffocation, with whistling respiration and croupy cough. During its stay in hospital no diphtheritic membrane was observed; the attacks of cough and dysp- noea became more violent, and tracheotomy, resorted to on the eighth day after admission, unfortunately, from the size of the canula, only hastened death. The autopsy showed nothing very marked beyond a vascular injection of the mucous membrane of the respiratory tract, moderate in the bronchi, vivid and uniform in the trachea. Barthez observes that oedema of the glottis, as Sestier has pointed out, may leave no trace after death; “ a sort of transudation or evaporation taking place” between death and the autopsy. As to the diagnosis of the case, which presented insurmountable difficulties, he remarks the absence of a sign, very frequent, and almost pathognomonic of oedema glottidis, the “special dyspnoea of Bayle,” occurring only with in- spiration and leaving the expiration free. In children, as in adults, oedema glottidis is almost always a secondary affection, especially at the end of typhoid, or following the acute exanthemata and albuminous anasarca. He knows only one other published case of its occurrence at the commencement of hooping-cough, and following angina, in a girl, set. six years.—(Benoit, ‘Arch, de la Soc. de Med. Pratique de Montpellier.’) Gibb and Holthouse (‘Lancet,’ 1869, ii, 338) give a case, occurring in a sailor, set. 30, of acute oedema of the left subglottic space within the ring of the cricoid cartilage, revealed by the laryngoscope, and re- lieved by tracheotomy; five months afterwards he was still wearing the tube. Powell (‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1870, i, 231) publishes a fatal case of oedema of the aryteno-epiglottidean folds in a boy, set. 6 months, on whom tracheotomy was not practised; and Fagge (ib.) gives a suc- cessful case of tracheotomy in a girl of years, for simple laryn- gitis.