REPORT ON SURGERY. 808 system of veins. The second case was less severe. The patient, a young woman, recovered. ITe thinks it is not unlikely that under the term elephantiasis arabum three diseases, quite distinct in their origin, though identical in their results, have been often included, namely, what we may term lymphatic elephantiasis, vascular or nawoid elephan- tiasis, and the ordinary elephantiasis arabum of climatic origin. These diseases, though arising from different causes, have this in common, that, as a consequence, the elements of nutrition (whether contained in blood, lymph or chyle) are in excess in the part affected, and that as a natural result the overfed tissues become overgrown, the overgrowth being specially manifest in those tissues that are more lowly organized, and are, perhaps, less descriminative in the materials they select for their nutrition. (‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,’ v, p, 153.) Enlargement of one lower limb.—Dr. W. H. Day has communicated to the Clinical Society the particulars of a case in which great enlarge- ment of the right lower extremity existed, with occasional discharge of chylous fluid. The patient was a boy aged seven. The enlargement began at the age of two and half years. The case was regarded as one of elephantiasis with disease in the lymphatic system. To this is appended a note of a case of varicose lymphatic vessels of the right lower extremity by Mr. Berkeley Hill, and one of enlargement of the right lower extremity with chylous discharge by Dr. Cholmeley. (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ ii, pp. 104—119.) Removal of a tumour from the 'pterygoid fossa.—The following very re- markable case is narrated in the ‘Lancet,’ May 29, 1869, by Dr. P. H. Watson. The patient, Margaret B—, set. 60, was admitted into Chalmers’ Hospital, Edinburgh. She gave the history that seven years before she had noticed a swelling along the lower border of the jaw in front of the angle, and a fulness in the region of the parotid upon the right side. These swellings were followed six months afterwards by a third bulging towards the buccal cavity. They steadily increased, but espe- cially towards the buccal cavity. On admission a large tumour was seen occupying the parotid and submaxillary regions. On opening the mouth nothing but the rounded surface of a large tumour could be seen immediately behind the teeth, hiding the fauces posteriorly and concealing the tongue from view. The tumour gave an elastic resist- ance (semifluctuating), and the mucous membrane was movable over it. Difficulty of swallowing had existed for two years. Dr. Watson gave the diagnosis of a simple growth springing from the pterygoid fossa and growing in the direction of least resistance on account ol—1, the slow growth of the tumour ; 2, the non-implication ol surrounding structures; 3, the entire absence of all cachexia. A large trochar and canula were introduced from the mouth and a pellet removed. . This was composed almost entirely of a fibrous stroma, enclosing minute, nucleated cells and nuclei in the form of rounded masses. The tumour was a simple, glandular one, analagous to those met with in connection with the mammary gland, or within the parotid fascia, or m the sub- stance of the prostate. Operation.—An incision was made m the