REPORT ON SURGERY. 196 patient having tree motion of the articulation at the end of six weeks. [ The effects of antiseptics on the salubrity of an hospital.—Mr. Lister writes, on this subject. He says that the antiseptic system has been in use long enough to allow of a fair estimate of its useful- ness, as regards the salubrity of a hospital, being formed. lie con- sidered the wards at Glasgow in a very unhealthy state. Various reve- lations as to causes for this were disclosed jfrom time to time, especially that there were a number of coffins, containing bodies, under the new building, placed there at the time of the cholera epidemic. During three years, however, there was complete immunity from the ordinary evils of surgical hospitals, since the introduction of the antiseptic plan. Hirst, of pyaemia. This fearful disease used to occur principally in two classes of cases, namely, compound fractures and the major amputa- tions. “ In compound fractures it was so rife, just before the introduc- tion of the antiseptic system, that I had one of the sulphites adminis- tered internally, as a prophylactic, in accordance with Polli’s views, to every patient admitted with this kind of injury, though I cannot say that we observed any distinct evidence of advantage from the practice. But since I began to treat compound fractures on the antiseptic system, while no internal treatment has been used, I have not had pyaemia in a single instance, although I have had in all thirty-two cases—six in the forearm, five in the arm, eighteen in the leg, and three in the thigh. These cases do not include those in which the injury was so great as to demand immediate amputation. But, it must be remarked, that many of the limbs saved were so severely injured that I should formerly have removed them without hesitation. I almost forget the kind of con- siderations which used to determine me to amputate under the old treatment, though I know that experience taught us that it -was only in comparatively mild cases that it was justifiable to attempt to save the limb. Now, however, there is scarcely any amount or kind of injury of bones, joints, or soft parts, which I regard as inconsistent with con- servative treatment, except such destruction of tissue as makes gan- grene of the limb inevitable as an immediate consequence. But I may take this opportunity of observing that the attempt to save a limb, which under ordinary treatment would be subjected to immediate amputation, ought not to be made lightly, or without a thorough acquaintance with some trustworthy method of carrying out the anti- septic system ; by which I mean, not the mere use of an antiseptic, how- ever potent, but such management of the case as shall effectually prevent the occurrence of putrefaction in the part concerned.” “ If the treatment is not well carried out, by the time it has failed the patient is so much prostrated that the operation, if performed, is probably too late,” and thus a loose and trifling style of “ giving the treatment a trial ” swells the death-rate at once of compound fracture and of amputation. In two years preceding the introduction of the antiseptic treatment, of thirty-five cases of amputation (major), sixteen died, or one death in every two and a half cases. During the antiseptic period, of forty cases there were only six deaths, or one death in every six and two thirds.