REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 381 excitement, and having eaten very freely of hard grapes, symptoms of intestinal obstruction suddenly set in, the bowels having acted freely without medicine a few hours previously. After waiting some days, the abdomen was a second time exposed by au incision an inch to the right of the old cicatrix; the obstruction was easily reached, and was found to be caused by an old-standing stricture of the lower end of the ileum. For half an inch of the bowel there was not a trace of muscular fibre, but only peritoneum. The contraction admitted a No. io catheter. Of the three unfinished operations, in the first, on drawing out the cyst, the adhesions were everywhere so old and intimate that nothing more was attempted. A free opening was left in the cyst. The patient got very well, married, and remained well for two years, when the fluid rapidly collected. The second had a very firmly adherent thin cyst; it was simply emptied. The patient recovered perfectly, and was after- wards treated by drainage. In the third case the uterus was drawn up to within an inch of the umbilicus. The tumour was so fused together with the uterus and bladder that nothing was done except emptying two large cysts. The patient recovered. Mr. Keith briefly sketches 16 cases in which no operation was performed. Of the fatal cases, death occurred from pulmonary embolism fifteen days after operation. Two died from pyaemia; in one of these part of a very adherent tumour was left attached to the sacrum, in the other the tumour was cancerous and adherent to the rectum. One fair ave- rage case, in which both ovaries were removed, died from large fibrinous clot in the right auricle. One case of malignant tumour seemed doing fairly, when rapid pulmonary congestion carried her off on the sixth day. Another of the malignant cases got over the immediate effect of the operation, and lingered for twenty-three days, worn out, apparently, by the general cancerous disease. In Case 52 the excessive chloroform vomiting during the operation, and for some time after it, so prostrated the patient that her chance of recovery was lost. Keith has now abandoned chloroform, and uses anhydrous sulphuric ether made from methylated alcohol, administered through Kichardson’s apparatus. The oftener it has been given the more he likes it. Chloroform, he says, certainly saves the surgeon five or ten minutes of time and a little trouble. Had it never been heard of he doubts if humanity would have suffered from the want of ifi When practicable, the extra-peritoneal method of treating the pedicle has been adhered to. No case has been operated upon in an hospital. (‘Lancet,’ 1870.) . . Prof. Spiegelberg gives the histories of eight additional ovariotomies. Three ended fatally, five recovering. One died from the torn cellular tissue of the broad ligament; there was no pedicle. The tumour had pullulated through the peritoneum; it was impossible to secure all the vessels. One died, having a perforated cyst, a diseased omentum, and breaking down of papillary excrescences in the abdominal cavity. One died on the seventh day, from suppuration of the pedicle, which was thick and short, and had been divided by cautery, then secured by liga-