286 REPOltT ON SURGERY. spontaneous, and anastomotic aneurisms of the gluteal and sciatic vessels. Cirsoid aneurism.—In the £ Prager Vierteljahrsehr. fur Heilkunde,’ 1869, iii, iv, C. Heine has collected the histories of sixty cases of cirsoid aneurism affecting the head, or, as he calls it after Virchow, angioma arteriale racemosum. Of the sixty cases, forty-three are de- scribed as instances of acute angioma, that is to say, where, after some premonitory symptoms, a swelling was formed by the dilatation of a defined arterial region. There were fifteen doubtful cases, in six of which the suspicion of a pulsating telangeiectasis, and in seven that of an arterio-venous aneurism, could not be excluded, and in two cases there appeared to have already been mere paralytic distension of the arteries. The case of a man, aged twenty-one, is related, who had a pulsating swelling of the size of a plum at the upper edge of the left helix ; it extended over the squamous portion of the temporal bone, and appeared to be connected with the arteries of the opposite half of the forehead and cranium. There were also two smaller swellings on the upper convexity and posterior border of the antehelix. The temporal and posterior auricular arteries were much dilated; compression of these vessels only weakened the pulsation in the tumour. The disease had commenced as a simple, congenital nsevus, which rapidly increased at puberty, especially on the cessation of an epistaxis which up to this time had occurred almost daily. Heine tied the temporal and auricular arteries, and, as this produced no effect on either the pulsation in the tumour or its size, he tied the external carotid, placing in addition a second (distal) ligature on this vessel and the superior thyroid artery together. The pulsation of the tumour thereon ceased ; in removing it, however, it was necessary to apply thirteen other ligatures, and acu- pressure had to be applied to nine arteries of middle size. Considerable htemorrhage occurred twice on the fifth day, and was arrested by ligature of the common carotid artery. Perfect recovery followed in two months. Heine founds some remarks on forty-five authentic cases of cirsoid aneurism. In thirty of these nmvus was observed either at birth or in very early childhood ; in the latter case it had, perhaps, been congenitally present in the muscles or glands, or in the bones, but had only at a later period become visible. The conditions under which a simple nrovus may become developed into a cirsoid aneurism are mechanical injuries, puberty, pregnancy, general plethora, and transient hyperaemia. The operation of these conditions, especially in nsevus affecting the head, is to be explained partly by the greater readiness with which the arteries of this part undergo dilatation, and partly by the nearness of the heart. In five cases the tumour was referred to a traumatic origin, and Heine is of opinion that these traumatic, cirsoid aneurisms had their source in the exuberant formation of new vessels in suppurating contused wounds, the newly formed vessels being exposed to influences favouring the growth of simple ncevi. Heine does not follow Virchow in regarding the essential character of cirsoid aneurism as consisting in a true excess of growth, consequent on irritation of the walls of the vessels • he considers that the middle coat of the newly formed vessels