OO1 REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. ** ‘ Klinische Monatsbliitter,’ 1869. is followed by some oedema of the retina around the disc. The essen- tial phenomenon is the arterial anaemia, and vision is restored as soon as the arteries return to their normal calibre, although the peri-papillary oedema may still exist. The author has tried various plans of treat- ment without success, but has relieved some very obstinate cases by the continuous galvanic current. Coindet* remarks on the foregoing com- munication that there are two forms of hemeralopia, the sthenic, and the amemic; the former, which is rare, quickly yielding to purgatives or other revulsives; the latter requiring an opposite treatment, and often relieved by the application of solid nitrate of silver to the circum- corneal zone of conjunctiva. G-alezowskif regards the arterial amemia as an effect of spasm of these vessels, and has prescribed collyria of calabarine with good effect. He denies the efficacy of cod-liver oil and of fumigations with burnt livers; while Dr. Baizeau, in a subse- quent number of the same journal,J asserts it. Galezowski speaks also of pretended hemeralopia among soldiers, and states that confinement in a dark chamber is the best remedy. Under the name of partial temporary amaurosis, Forster§ brought before the Heidelberg Congress a paper descriptive of cases of a curious affection, in which partial loss of vision is followed by an appearance of a zigzag coloured and scintillating bow or arch, which enlarges to the limits of the field and then disappears, leaving the vision normal. The attacks recur at uncertain intervals, and are often followed by intense headache. Many eminent persons have suffered from this disorder, and among others the names of Wollaston, Brewster, Clery, Listing, Buete, and Czermak, are mentioned by the author. The attacks appear to be of cerebral origin, and are usually preceded by over-work or definite malaise. The affection has also been described by Dr. Hubert Airy|| under the name of trichopsia, from the fancied resemblance of the zigzag arch to the angles of a fortified town wall. Dr. H. Airy is himself a sufferer; and he gives illustrations of the appearances in his own case. He adds the names of Arago, Herschel, Dufour, and Wheatstone to the list given above. Dr. A. Sichel, fils,^f recounts the further history of the patient with retinal amesthesia, whose state had previously been described by v. Graefe as Case 7, in his “ Observations on Amblyopia and Amaurosis,” published in the ‘ Klinische Monatsbliitter’ for 1866. He describes also another case of a similar kind. Leber read before the Heidelberg Congress a paper on the anomalies of colour vision in amblyopia.** For the purpose of roughly testing colour vision, he gives his patients small squares of variously tinted paper, and desires them to sort these squares. For more exact testing he employs the chromatometer of Bose. This consists of two Nmol's prisms, a plate of quartz, and a doubly refracting prism. It, therefore, affords two images the tints of which are complementary, and which can be made to vary through every degree of intensity and of tone by * ‘ Gaz. Hebdom.,’ 1869, No. 29, p. 471. t ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1869, Oct. 23. + December 2. § ‘Kliniscbe Monatsbjatter,’ 1869. |f ‘Philosophical Transactions,’ 1870, p. 247. *[[ ‘Ann. d’Oculist.,’ 1870, p. 202.