DYSTOCIA FROM TUMOURS. 407 lie performed ovariotomy with perfect success, pregnancy being uninter- rupted. He is upon the whole in favour of tapping the ovarian cyst in preference to inducing labour. Ur. Hartmann relates a case of pregnancy complicated with ovarian tumour (‘Mon. f. Geburtsk.,’ 1869). The genitals became excessively oedematous, rendering scarifications necessary. . Dyspnoea became exces- sive through the double pressure. It was determined to induce labour. A sponge was placed in the os uteri, then a catheter, and the labour took place. A child weighing lbs. alive, was born. Placenta cast. The cyst grew rapidly after the labour, and the oedema also increased, so that it was necessary at the end of the ninth week to puncture the cyst. Recovery. A case of labour obstructed by a fibrous tumour is related (‘ Obstet. Trans.,’ 1870), by Dr. Braxton Hicks. The tumour presented before the head. He tried first to bring the child past the tumour by version. There being great uncertainty of success by cephalotripsy, he resorted to enucleation of the tumour. A small opening by a bistoury was made into the lower portion of the swelling; this was dilated, and enu- cleation completed. Ho haemorrhage followed. The child was then delivered by forceps alive. The tumour weighed a pound and a half. The woman recovered. Horwitz discusses (‘ St. Petersburg Med. Ztschr.,’ 1868) the history of the complication of pregnancy with polypi. In relation to childbed, he says, the complication is dangerous to life, less through haemorrhage than through metamorphosis of the tissues of the polypus. Expulsion following gangrene is very rare; inversion of the uterus also is rare. With advancing involution the polypus commonly shrinks, sometimes disappears. The most important condition of all has been little no- ticed. All the conditions for inflammation and thrombotic processes in the polypi are present; the inflammation spreads to the uterus, is developed in a highly vascular site, and leads to suppuration and its consequence—septic infection. To avoid these Horwitz urges prompt excision of the polypus. He relates four cases which confirm the fore- going conclusions. Dr. Gfervis relates (‘ Obstetr. Trans.,’ 1869) an interesting case of labour obstructed by a large myomatous polypus. The tumour adhered to the whole circumference of the cervix ; it became extremely tense with every pain, and some laceration of the surface occurred. One child was delivered after craniotomy, and a second by turning. The tumour after labour projected through the vulva; it was removed by ecraseur five days afterwards. The woman died on the thirteenth day, symptoms of peritonitis having set in. Low necrotic inflammation was proceeding in the tumour. Labour with cancer of the uterus is illustrated by a case narrated (Mourn, de Med., &c., de Bruxelles, 1870). The patient died two days after labour. The author cites this case in support of the opinion that abuse of coitus is a cause of cancer. Scanzoni relates (‘Beitriige,’ 1870) a singularly interesting case of pregnancy and labour, the uterus and ovaries being contained in the sac of an inguinal hernia. Labour came on in the fifth month. The case is related in much detail and deserves special perusal.