REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. BY ROBERT BRUDENELL CARTER, E.R.C.S., OPHTHALMIC SURGEON TO ST. GEORGE’S HOSPITAL. The years 1869 and 1870 have not been very fruitful of either facts or Avritings in ophthalmology, and indeed leave it very much where they found it in respect both of science and practice. They are marked, however, by one melancholy distinction, due to the hand of death. Pro- fessors van Roosbroeck, Quadri, and Bohm, Drs. van Biervliet and Serre (d’Uzes), and, last and greatest of all, the illustrious Albrecht v. Graefe, have ceased from their labours. Their eulogies have already been pro- nounced, and it is only necessary here to chronicle their deaths as events in history. In England the treatise of Mr. Soelberg Wells* * * § has reached a second edition. Mr. Lawson has published a small bookf on ophthalmic medicine and surgery; and Mr. Dixon has revised, for the second edition of the work of which it forms part, his article on diseases of the eye, contributed to ‘ Holmes’s System of Surgery.’ Air. Wharton Jones has published on the effects of accidents upon vision. J I have myself translated the “ Augenfehler” of Dr. Scheffler,§ and have written the chapter on affections of the eye in the last edition of Dr. Tanner’s work on the ‘ Diseases of Infancy and Childhood.’|| A new edition of Dr. Liebreich’s ‘ Atlas of Ophthalmoscopy’ has been published simul- taneously in England, Erance, Spain, Germany, and Italy, the edition in each country having its text in the corresponding language. Two numbers of the ‘ Ophthalmic Hospital Reports’ appeared in 1869, and a small number of contributions to ophthalmology have been published in the general medical journals. Erom America, in the spring of 1869, we received the first number * 1 a. Treatise on Diseases of tlie Eye,’ 1870. t ‘Diseases and Injuries of the Eye, their Medical and Surgical Treatment,’ London, 1869. + ‘ Failure of Sight from Railway and other Accidents,’ London, 1869. § ‘ The Theory of Ocular Defects, and of Spectacles,’ London, 1869. II Edited by Dr. Meadows, London, 1870. 22