141 PNEUMONIA. in a man, ret. 22, who during life hud exhibited the signs of general catarrh, of the lungs, showed scattered nodules in the lungs, winch under the microscope were seen to be made up of small round and fusiform cells, in which granules of iron were scattered. He considers that this case confirms Zenker’s view that the induration m such cases occurs as a consequence of the irritation set up by the particles of iron. I11 conclusion, he refers to the case of a man, art. 21, whose blue spu a contained particles of ultramarine, partly free, partly enclosed m large round cells. After fourteen days’ stay in hospital only the latter were Slavjanski (‘ Vircli. Arch., xlviii, 326) made experiments on rabbits and guinea-pigs by injecting water bolding vermilion (cinnabar) in solii- tion into the lungs, through a hole in the trachea. On killing the animals no inflammation was found, but the lungs, and bronchial glands presented red patches. After injection with size and Berlin blue sections were made and treated with nitrate of silver, after Chrzonsz- czewsky’s method, and it was found that the red particles were pre- sent, not only lying free and irregularly in the interstitial tissue, but also’in the cells which filled the alveoli. These cells Slavjansky con- siders to be, not epithelial, but immigrated white cells, which have become mucous corpuscles. BoUclier, “ Ueber Lungmelanose,” ‘ St. Pet. Med. Zeit.,’ xvi, II. 2. Pneumonia. Morehead (‘Edinb. Med. Journ.,’ xv, 1003) argues in favour of the theory that the capillaries derived from the bronchial arteries are those primarily affected in pneumonia. He combats the views ex- pounded by Waters in his work on the anatomy of the lung, and applies his own theory to explain the clinical facts of the affection. He con- cludes with a similar exposition of hepatitis, which he considers to depend upon deviation from their normal function of the capillaries of the hepatic artery. Grimshaw (‘Dubl. Quart. Journ.,’ xlvii, 335), after reviewing the thermometric observations of others on pneumonia, gives the results of his own. He concludes that uncomplicated pneumonia has a tolerably definite range of temperature; the highest attained is usually between 103° and 104° F., generally on the fourth or fifth day, after which it falls, and reaches the normal standard on the sixth or seventh day. The height of the thermometer does not necessarily show the intensity of the disease ; its fall does not indicate the cessation of mischief, but only that it is about to enter on the third stage. If a high tempera- ture is maintained for a long time (more than three or four days), or a fresh rise takes place, an attack in a previously healthy part or some new complication may be expected. The temperature and pulse usu- ally, though not always, rise and fall together. The temperature commonly falls before the frequency of the respiration diminishes. A high temperature before the sixth day in a doubtful case generally proves it to bo one of pneumonia, and not of typhus (typhoid?).