189 eczema. aspect so pustular as in non-parasitic sycosis. He urges the import- ance of avoiding irritating applications at the commencement ol the affection, and recommends litharge to exclude the air, hot fomentations, alkalies, and tonics, subsequent strapping with lead or mercurial plaster, and the use in the chronic stage of iodine. Milton, “On the Nature and Classification of Ekzema,’ ‘ Journ. of Cut. Med., iii, 140; Wilson, E., “On Ekzema;” Id., “Natural History of Ekzema: E. infantile,” ib., 396; Id., “Dermatitis Toxica from the Aniline Dye,” ib., 44; Purdon, “Notes on Eczema,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869, ii, 29; Fox, “Eczema, its Nature and Treatment,” London, 1870; Sutton, “Tetanus apparently excited by an Eczematous Eruption on the Hand,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1870, ii, 8. Herpes.—Broadbent (“Speculations concerning Herpes Zoster,” ‘Med. Times and Graz.,’ 1869, i, 33), in reference to a former paper of Hutchin- son’s (ib., 1868, Dec.), opposes the views of the latter as to its alliance with the acute exanthemata, which rest upon the non-occurrence of this affection, its fixed stages and definite duration. He also rejects the view that the root of the nerve is the seat of irritation, and finds it rather in “the branches of distribution of the nerve extending from various points in different cases to the periphery.” Hutchinson (ib., 407) gives eight more cases of herpes zoster which he thinks were probably produced by arsenic. Seven of these had been taking the drug for some other skin disease ; one of them, a boy, under Mr. Lawrence, at St. Bartholomew’s, had been taking arsenic, and had shingles, but the connection between the two is not certain. The eighth, a girl, had been taking arsenic for chorea. Two other cases are given, one of herpes prseputialis, and the other of herpes labialis in patients taking the same drug for psoriasis and eczema; and two others who had shingles without having taken arsenic. Box (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1870,139) records the case of a man, set. 33, in whom herpes zoster had occurred three years running ; another, among the few recorded instances, against the common opinion that the affection occurs but once in a lifetime. Auspitz (‘Arch. f. Derm.,’ i, 246) contributes two cases of herpes vegetans. The first occurred in a woman, set. 28, who consulted him for onychogryphosis of all her fingers and syphilitic psoriasis of her hands. In the eighth month of pregnancy she was attacked with a sort of eczema of the skin of the abdomen. According to the medical attendant, new groups of vesicles appeared in succession, became pustular, covered with crusts, and gave the appearance of papillary growths (fleischwarzchenartigen Wucherung). The death ot the foetus soon after was followed by that of the mother from acute oedema ot the lung. No autopsy was allowed. The second case also happened in a married woman, set. 26, in the sixth month of pregnancy, the mother of a rachitic child aged two years. No history of syphilis could be obtained. Bor a fortnight there had appeared on the left upper arm and on the abdomen vesicles and pustules, singly or grouped in circles on a red base. Over both inguinal regions on the lower part and whole posterior surface of the thigh red, moist patches appeared, and spread as detailed at length to other parts, developing into vegetations exactly like true condylomata. After several attacks