277 LOOSE CARTILAGES IN JOINTS. Loose cartilages in joints—.Mr. Paget writes on the subject of the production of loose cartilages in joints. He has arrived at an expla- nation, which, he says, is similar to one put forward by Mr. Teale some years ago, but of which he was not aware till lately. Mr. Paget has had a case of necrosis of the femur in a young girl without suppuration or external sign of disease, probably produced by her habit of breaking sticks across the thigh. A sequestrum was removed by operation. _ lie thinks that an analogous process occurs as regards the cartilage of joints. He removed a loose cartilage from the knee-joint of a healthy young man of sixteen. “ This body looked exactly like a piece of the articular cartilage of one of the condyles of the femur. It was irregularly oval in outline, about an inch long, half an inch wide, and a line in thickness. On one surface it was convex and smooth, on the other concave and rough, and on this surface was a small prominent piece of bone, as if, with the cartilage, a piece of the articular surface of the femur had separated. The borders of the loose body were smoothly rounded off. In agreement with this general likeness to a piece of articular cartilage from a condyle was the microscopic structure of this loose body. In sections through its thickness was found a nearly homogeneous basis- substance with cartilage-corpuscles, which, in arrangement and all their other characters were exactly like those of articular cartilage. At and near the concave surface they were elongated, with their longer diame- ters at right angles with the surface, and grouped in nearly parallel, vertical lines. Nearer to the convex surface they were round or oval, fewer, and irregularly placed; and just beneath the surface they were very numerous, thin, compressed, and flattened, parallel with the sur- face, which was dense and darkly defined, exactly like the synovial surface of an articular cartilage. Thus, no character was wanting to make it certain that this loose body was a piece of the cartilage together with a very small portion of the bone of one of the condyles of the femur. Such pieces cannot be chipped off. These loose bodies are sequestra, exfoliated after necrosis of injured portions of cartilage, exfoliated without acute inflammation, just as the piece of bone was (in the femur case), or as a tooth, after a blow, may be slowly detached from its alveolus and cast out. And, certainly, among all the tissues there is none in which it might be more expected than in articular cartilage that the separation of dead pieces should take place without acute inflammation, for, its substance being without blood-vessels and not easily permeable, products of its morbid changes cannot be easily diffused.” The view above given is supported by the fact that such bodies are frequently consequent on injury in perfectly healthy young persons, the injury having occurred some weeks previously. And, more strongly5 the same view is sustained by the fact that the femur, after death, has been found void of cartilage on a part corresponding in shape and’size with a loose body removed by operation, and on all other parts covered by healthy cartilage. Such cases will form a group sufficiently distinct from those in which the loose bodies are derived from abnormal growths of cartilage in diseased joints, whether from the changes in chronic rheumalic arthritis or from dendritic growths of synovial fringes or otherwise. CSt. Barth. IIosp. Rep.,’vi, p. i.)