POISONING. 465 has powerful basic properties, completely neutralising all acids. It is sparingly soluble in water, freely soluble in ether and in chloioiorin. The alkaloid is characterised by its property of yielding with concen- trated sulphuric acid a brown colour, which, on the application of heat, changes to a beautiful purple. This reaction may be obtained with i-iooth grain of gelseminine or of one of its colourless salts. The addition of bichromate of potash to this acid solution produces no marked change. Gelseminine is an exceedingly poisonous substance. The paper contains an account of a toxicological search for the alka- loid in a case of poisoning by the liquid extract of. the plant. Picrotoxine.—This non-nitrogenous neutral principle has recently received an investigation at the hands of M. Roeber.* * * § He finds that it is a powerful excitor of the medulla oblongata, or, perhaps, of all the nerve centres situated in the medulla oblongata. Its administration causes violent and long-continued convulsions of the body generally, prolongation and ultimately stoppage of the cardiac beats, and accele- ration of respiration, which is finally arrested by cramp of the glottis and diaphragm. Poisonous fungi.—An anonymous reviewerf draws attention to what appears to be an extremely valuable book by Dr. Valenti-Serini on the poisonous fungi of the territory of Siena. We have not been able to gain access to the original work, but from the description given, and from the fact that nearly all, if not all, the dangerous fungi described grow in the British Islands, the volume must be a very useful and in- structive one to the medical practitioner. Nicotine.—L. SchottenJ has observed the following accordant symp- toms in two cases of chronic poisoning by nicotine :—(i) A high degree of mental irritability. (2) Sluggishness and weakness of the volun- tary muscles, which so affected one patient that it was with great reluc- tance that she took her meals. With this was associated a feeling of dizziness. (3) Slowness of respiration, the inspirations falling to eight per minute, and being occasionally sighing. (4) Painful neuralgia (a) of the external pudendal nerve, depriving the patients of rest; erections ; strangury every morning, extending from 4 a.m. till noon; (i) of the coeliac plexus with persistent sour eructations ; (c) of the fifth intercostal nerve on the left side; and (d) of the right brachial plexus. (5) Hyper- sesthesia of the olfactory nerve (to tobacco and eau de Cologne), and of the acoustic nerve to loud speech. Bread.—Drs. H. Eulenberg and H. Vohl§ give a good resume of the known facts relative to the adulterations of bread with alum, blue vitriol, and white vitriol, and the effects on the human organism of the use of such bread. M'boundou, or icaja.—The Gaboon poison has received an investiga- tion at the hands of MM. Rabuteau and Peyre.|| These gentlemen have experimented with this substance, which is said to be prepared * ' Lancet,’ 1869, i, p. 616. t ‘Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev.,’ xliii, p. 41. X 1 Virchow’s Archiv,’ xiv, p. 172; ‘ Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ 143, p. 18. § ‘ Horn’s Vierteljahrsschr.,’ xii, p. 322. || ‘ Neu. Rep. f. Pharm.,’ xix, p. 631! 30