164 IIEPOltT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. the second sound was clear, but weak over the aorta and at the apex, inaudible in the pulmonary artery. There was a loud systolic murmur behind, especially at the fourth and fifth dorsal vertebrae. The patient died June 23, 1868. The autopsy showed great enlargement of the venous trunks of the systemic circulation, and extensive adhesion of the visceral and parietal layers of the pericardium. Avery thick, somewhat callus-like mass of connective tissue was found to the right of the aorta, exactly opposite an aneurismal dilatation of the latter. There was advanced dilatation of the right auricle and ventricle, with relative insufficiency of the tricuspid. The calibre of the pulmonary artery was narrowed by a sac-formed aneurism of the aorta which com- pressed it from behind forwards. This was regularly hemispherical, 3'3 centimetres in height, 4'3 centimetres broad, and communicated with the aorta by a narrow circular opening. The lower border of this opening was exactly one centimetre above the insertion of the anterior and right valves. The aorta was atheromatous, the valves of the left side normal. They insist upon the importance of the morbid change in the pericardium, as the real cause of the aneurism, and call attention to the presence of the systolic murmur at the back for the diagnosis of pulmonary stenosis, by which it was probably caused. Colberg has left on record (ib., 565) a case of very much the same kind in a man, ret. 36. Immediately over the aortic valve was found an aneurism of the size of a pigeon’s egg, situated to the right and in front, which almost completely compressed the pulmonary orifice. The valves were bealthy ; the left ventricle was not hypertrophied. In Peacock’s case (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xix, 98) the aneurism, about the size of a cricket-ball, projected from the front of the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta, and pressed on the pneumogastric and phrenic nerves. Fischer-Dietschy, “ Experimentelle Beitriige zur Diagnose der Aneurysmen,” ‘Dent. Arch.,’vi, 530; Ebstein, “ZurCasuistik der durch Aneurysmen der Aufsteigenden Aorta bedingten Stenose der Art. Pulmon.,” ib., 281; Praell, “ Zur Diagnose des Aneurysma am Aortenbogen,” ‘Virch. Arch.,’ xlv, 518; Wyss, “Aneurysma Dissecans der Aorta Ascendens,” ‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ x, 490; Piez, “Anevrysme de l’Aorte Thoracique: sac forme en partie par les parois de I’tEsophage,” ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1869, 341; Vallin, “ Observation d’Anevrysme de l’Aorte ouvert dans la bronche gauche,” •L’Union Med.,’ viii, 349; Id., “Anevrysme de l’Aorte,” ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1869,199; Gigard, “Anevrysme de l’Aorte ouvert dans la bronche gauche,” ‘Lyon Med.,’ iv, 392; Molard, “Anevrysme double du tronc Brachio-cephalique et de l’Aorte Thoracique descend, au dessous de la crosse,” ‘Rec. de Mem. de Med. Milit.,’ xxii, 292; Balfour, “ Further Observations on +1,0 fron+mont. of Aneurism bv Iodide of Potassium, with additional cases,” ‘Edin. Med. Arch of Aorta,” ib. 472, 706; ‘ Path. S