279 ANEURISM. various arteries were tied; only one recovered. In another four cases Brasdor’s operation was adopted, and death followed in all. Recovery followed in two cases in which amputation at the shoulder-joint was resorted to. The consideration of the bearing these statistics have on the question of treatment is deferred. (‘ Guy s Hosp. Rep., xv, pp. 47 to 156.) . Mr. Heath records a case of subclavian aneurism on the right side, involving the first, second, and third parts, in a man who had a cured aneurism of the left subclavian (‘Clin. Soc. Trans., ii, p. 8). The specimen was afterwards shown at the Pathological Society (see ‘Trans., XX, p. 123). . . Mr. Poland narrates a case of fusiform aneurism of the subclavian artery treated by indirect compression (i.e. pressure on the cardiac side of the tumour). The thumb was placed on the artery leading to the tumour, and pressure made against the bony support behind. The circulation was completely stopped, and the same person could press for twenty minutes. It was kept up for ninety-six hours with a few minutes’ intermission. The tumour then was smaller and harder, but still pulsated. He then left the hospital, but was seen several times after- wards, and was much improved. The pulsation began to diminish, and the tumour became solid. At the end of a month there was no pul- sation whatever in it. The course of the artery was high above the clavicle, and was probably lifted up by a cervical rib. (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ lii, pp. 276 to 302.) This is followed by an account of a case under the care of Mr. Corner, in which an aneurism of the right subclavian artery was cured by direct compression. The patient was a man who had already undergone a spontaneous cure of a left popliteal aneurism, and in whom also a right popliteal aneurism had been successfully treated by compression on the proximate side. At p. 306 is an account of a case of subclavian aneu- rism in which Mr. Spence performed amputation at the shoulder-joint successfully. Carotid aneurism.—A case of aneurism of the common carotid, success- fully treated by intermittent digital compression of the arterial trunk, has been reported by M. Rouge, of Lausanne, to the Society of Surgery of Paris. The patient was a male, set. 68. The compression was effected laterally, the thumb being placed against the anterior edge of the sterno- mastoid, the next three fingers under the posterior edge, and the artery being thus seized and compressed between them. Thus, the pressure on the pneumogastric, which occurs when the carotid is compressed from the front against the sixth vertebra, and which is so painful, if con- tinued, as to be the main cause of failure, was avoided. Digital com- pression was continued for seventeen days, for an average of seven or eight hours each clay. Cases already on record in which this treatment has been tried are—Gioppi, 1858 (‘Annales d’Oculistique,’ 1858, 15th part), vauzeth, 1858 (‘Archives Generates,’ 1838), both successful; Delore, i860 (‘ Gazette des Hopitaux’), Ernest Hart, 1861 (‘Lancet ’), oheppard, 1863 (‘Gazette Hebdomadaire,’ Eeb. 19th, 1864), successful • quoted m ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Feb. 27th, 1869.