REPORT ON SURGERY. 244- attachment was sufficient to overpower the cohesion of the bony tissue whilst the femur was violently driven upwards and backwards. In reference to this case Dr. W. Smith wrote to the author, to the effect that he considered it analogous to one of fracture of the head of the tibia that he had met with, in which a portion of the articular sur- face was violently torn off by the traction of the ligaments. Dislocation of the tendon of the peroneus longus.—Mr. Curling, in the ‘ Brit. Med. Journal,’ Jan. 2, 1869, narrates the case of a young gentleman twenty-one years of age, who hurt his foot in jumping. The patient noticed a projecting cord in front of the outer ankle, and easily pressed it back with great relief. He then saw a surgeon, who diagnosed dislocation of the tendon of the peroneus longus, and strapped on a piece of cork, as the displacement recurred. Mr. Curling ordered a laced-up sock with a pad to fit behind the ankle, to be worn for some years. Fractures of the sternal end of the clavicle.—Dr. It. W. Smith writes (‘ Dublin Quart. Journ.,’ Aug., 1870) on fractures of the sternal end of the clavicle. He has never met with a case of intra-rhomboid fracture, and doubts the probability of its occurrence. He thinks that if it did occur the outer portion would be displaced just the same (forwards) as the direction of the ligament (backwards) would allow of it. This does occur in dislocation. Two cases of fracture three quarters of an inch and three from an inch and a quarter to two inches from the sternal end are described and illustrated. “ In ten cases which I have either described or referred to in this memoir, the direction of the displace- ment was the same, the inner end of the acromial fragment projecting in front, and, in most of them, having been drawn downwards and in- wards.” In none of them was the inner fragment displaced, the liga- ments keeping it in place. This is the case irrespective of the distance of the seat of fracture from the sternal end. Fractures of forearm, Sfc.—Mr. Callender writes on the fractures of the bones of the forearm, interfering with pronation and supination. In many of these cases supination is almost wholly lost. The plan of treatment he recommends is that the elbow should be semiflexed, as the position most comfortable to the patient. The forearm and hand should be supported between two splints. The limb should be accurately fixed in supination, at an angle of 120°, by means of angular pads, which are easily adapted to the ordinary straight splints, being worked by mea- surement to the proper angle. In this position the thumb is brought nearly in a line with the outer fleshy border of the supinator radii longus, instead of forming one with the centre of the bend of the elbow, as when the forearm is semiprone; but the forearm is not rotated to the degree of supination recommended by Lonsdale and Malgaigne. The pads should present an even surface towards the broken bones, for, practically, there is no need for directing pressure over the interosseous space, as the shafts of the radius and ulna keep perfectly well asunder ■without it. If this plau of treatment is carefully followed, the patient