245 FRACTURE OF THE NECK OF THE FEMUR. will recover perfect rotation without incurring the risks from angular displacement which are said to follow the treatment by complete supi- nation of the forearm and hand. Some interesting cases of injury to nerves in joint fractures, of pain after joint fractures, and of nutrition spoiled after hurts to nerves are detailed; also cases of fractures of the patella and “ sprain fractures.” tinder the latter heading “ may be included many cases which scarcely receive sufficient attention, and which are very troublesome in their results ; cases in which some liga- inent is torn, carrying with it a film or shell of bone, into which its fibres are inserted. These cases are of common occurrence, and illus- trate the rule that bone gives way before fibrous tissue tears. Their troublesome after-consequences may be (i) deformity and impaired movement of a joint; (2) the production of a semidetached body which may become entangled between joint surfaces ; or (3) necrosis of a bit of bone within an articulation. They merit attention because their origin is in hurts apt to be considered trivial, because the damage is unfortunately apt to be overlooked, and because some of them are amongst the cases which get, later on, into the hands of bone-setters and joint-manipulators, usually to the great hurt of the patient.” This sort of accident is very common at the ankle. Cases of injury to the bones of the knee in a similar manner are narrated. (‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,’ vi, p. 33.) Fractures of the neclc of the femur.—Mr. Bryant writes on this sub- ject, and details cases in the ‘Medical Times and Gazette,’ April 17th and May 1st, 1869. "Woodcuts are given of specimens from four cases. The common occurrence of impaction is insisted on, and the following conclusions are deduced from the table of symptoms drawn up:— (r) That in all the cases the injury to the hip-joint was communicated through the great trochanter. (2) That, as a result of the injury, there was more or less loss of power in the limb; in some cases it was com- plete ; in as many the patient could rotate the limb slightly on the couch; and in two cases partial flexion of the thigh could be performed. (3) That in all the cases immediate shortening of the injured limb was the direct result of the accident, and that this shortening was about one inch or less, and was irremediable by extension. (4) That the foot of the injured extremity was either straight or slightly everted, although in several cases this eversion was less marked on the injured than on the sound side. (5) That the great trochanter was placed nearer the median line of the body and also nearer the anterior superior spinous process of the crest of the ilium than on the sound side. (6) That the head of the femur could be made to rotate smoothly in the acetabulum, and that the great trochanter moved with it. (7) That crepitus was either absent or indistinct in all the cases. (8) That all the cases, with one exception, occurred in patients past middle age. “ Now these symptoms, taken as a whole, without the slightest doubt indicate an impacted fracture; for, although there are other injuries to the hip- joint, which may give rise, separately, to many of the symptoms just detailed, there are none in which all, or most, are found combined. There is no injury to the hip-joint in which the head of the femur rests