265 ABSCESS OF BRAIN- sible, and had bleeding from the same ear. Paralysis of the right side gradually came on and steadily increased. He lived lor a week. A fissure fracture severing the meningeal artery was found, and a large clot in the left middle fossa outside the dura mater. Hernia cerebri.—Mr. Lawson exhibited to the Pathological Society a lad in whom a pulsating elastic tumour appeared suddenly six weeks after a trephining in the frontal region. The lad had appeared finite well till this came. A puncture was made with a lancet, and clear fluid let out; this continued to drain away for three days, when it ceased, and no further ill symptoms occurred. (‘Trans., xxi, p.311.) Abscess of brain.—Mr. de Morgan records the case of a man, set. 44> who came under care June 22, for an injury to the head from a fall. There was bleeding from the right ear. Prom that time till July 13 he passed through the stages of semi-consciousness, restlessness, and con- valescence. On the 27th, however, he had a convulsion ; then he com- plained of pain in the head, shivering, &c., passing on to coma on the 17th, with paralysis of the left side. Then he improved till August 3, when he had pain in the head again. On the nth he became insen- sible, and died on the 12th. At the post-mortem, a linear fracture of the base of the skull was found, and a large abscess of the middle lobe, which had burst into the lateral ventricle. (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ iii, p. 17.) The case of a lad who died, of cerebral abscess, five years after a severe injury to the head, is detailed by Dr. S. Lawrence, p. 602, ‘Edin. Med. Journal,’ Jan. 1869. Dr. P. H. Watson narrates the case of a girl, set. 8, who was struck on the head with a stone nine months before she came under care. A wound was produced which healed up, but subsequently reopened. At times she became unconscious and convulsed, but was always relieved by the escape of matter. Examination with a probe showed a small aperture leading to a cavity at least two and a half inches deep, and on withdrawal of the probe pus escaped. Dr. Watson determined to tre- phine. In performing this operation he dispensed with the use of the centre pin, by first of all cutting a piece of cardboard with the trephine, and then placing this on the skull to steady the instrument till it bit. After the removal of a circle of bone, nearly a wine-glassful of pus escaped. The abscess was clearly intra-membranous, and there was no evidence of necrosed bone, or of there having been a punctured fracture. If the wound was allowed to heal, collection of matter occurred, and the child became gradually somnolent; a probe passed daily obviated this difficulty. Ultimately she did quite well. Dr. Watson is not in favour of primary trephining without the occurrence of symptoms necessarily demanding interference. He cites three cases showing favourable pro- gress, without interference, till after some time; one case was that of a soldier, in whom rigors, headache, &c., occurred some weeks after a gunshot wound of the head. “ On laying open the wound to examine the skull at one point, where the bone was bare, a small tuft of hair, like a hair-pencil, stuck right up from the surface, being held and wedged in