473 INFANTICIDE. Dr. Dalle,* of Berlin, concludes a paper on the colour of the lungs of new-horn children and its medico-legal signification in these terms (i) The colour of the lungs of a new-born child may vary, owing to variations in the physiological and morbid conditions, from white through every gradation ol colour to black. (2) During the earlier stages of foetal life the lungs are of a pale red colour, but with the aug- mentation of the quantity of blood in them consequent upon the in- crease of the special tissue elements they become of a darker colour, yet in such a manner that no certain conclusion can be drawn from their colour as to the period of uterine life. (3) In children which are born at a variable period, that have yet made no respiratory movements re- sulting in the inspiration of air, the colour of the lungs is, as a rule, dark blue, but in those that have inspired air the colour is bright red. A more precise characterisation of the colour of the foetal lungs is im- possible, since this depends upon the varying amounts of air and blood in these organs, a fact which makes it evident that all parts of the lungs do not at one and the same time exhibit the same shade, espe- cially the shade of a lung that has respired. (4) The dark colour of the foetal lungs may be replaced by a bright colour, and still more readily the bright colour of the air-lungs may give place to the dusky colour of the foetal state, without the lungs in the former category ceasing to be airless, and those of the latter becoming airless. The ideas conveyed by the words light and dark on the one hand, and foetal or containing air on the other hand, are not in congruity. (3) Conse- quently, Casper’st insular marbling does not per se serve as a proof of the extra-uterine condition, for such an undecided separation between light and dark tissue does not necessarily indicate solely an incom- plete inflation of the lungs with air, since it invariably appears after a short period of extra-uterine life. (6) More important than the funda- mental colour of the lungs and the speckled markings that have just been described is the circumstance that in the air-lung, in consequence of anatomico-physiological changes which respiration brings about, a kind of mosaic network of clearly defined blood-vessels is perceptible around the alveoli, and that these, being inflated with air, have the ap- pearance of pearly vesicles. This mosaic marking is equally intense in all parts of the lungs, but yet when met with over even only a limited surface it must be accepted as a proof that respiration has taken place. Indeed, since premature attempts at respiration scarcely ever result in the introduction of air in notable quantity into the alveoli, if this last kind of respiration be not proved by clinical observation to have existed in each individual case the conditions of the lungs now de- scribed must be considered to have been brought about by extra-ute- rine respiration. The colour of the lungs hence furnishes, indirectly, valuable data for determining the question of live-birth. (7) The vary- ing amount of blood in the lungs, even in the extremes of anmmia and hypersemia, reflects no light on the forensic signification of the colour. The recognition of the mosaic marking may be rendered difficult, it is true, especially by plethora of blood, nevertheless the use of a lens * ‘Horn’s Vierteljahrsschr.,’ x, p, 1, 207. t ‘For. Med. N. S. S..’ iii, p. *{,