REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. * ' The British Pharin.’ gives gr. £ in m 30. 9I< and sugar was greatly diminished, but rose on any departure from the rule. The employment of bicarbonate of soda and Carlsbad salts caused a still more rapid diminution in the amount of sugar; but arsenic bad even greater influence, given in doses of one third of a gramme a day (Solut. Fowl, til 30) ;* it caused the sugar to fall from 570 to 35a grammes in the day. This dose was borne by the patient for two months without any ill effect. In a second case the same treatment for six weeks confirmed the favorable results obtained by the use of the drug. Durand-Fardel (“ Note sur la Pathogenie du Diabete,” ‘Bull, de l’Ac-ad. de Med.,’ xxxiv, 229) attempts to throw further light on the question of diabetes by its comparison with two other conditions belonging, according to him, to the same pathological family, the uric acid diathesis, gout and gravel, and the fatty diathesis (diathese graisseuse), obesity. He asserts that cases of the alliance, succession, or alternation of the three forms are continually found in practice; that diabetes makes its appearance especially in the fat; that obesity is almost always accompanied by the uric acid diathesis ; and that gout and gravel are frequently combined with diabetes. The low tempera- ture, the wasting, and the muscular atony of diabetic patients he attributes to the abnormal excretion of sugar; the anaphrodisia, amblyopia, &c., he considers as the result of a poisoning of the system, through the blood, by the sugar. Balthazar Foster (‘Journ. of Anat. and Plays.,’ iii, 377) took care- fully twice a day the temperature of four diabetic patients. He con- cludes— (1) That the temperature is always varying from one and a half to three degrees below the normal. In cases of recent origin it ranges between 96'$° and 97-5°F.; in more advanced cases it is nearly always below 970, and occasionally as low as 94'5- (2) That the evening tem- perature is generally 30—8° higher than that of the morning. (3) That there is no relation between the amount of sugar passed in twenty-four hours and the temperature. (4) That the occurrence of pulmonary and other complications produces an elevation of temperature only to a very limited extent. Hoffman (‘ Centralbl.,’ 1870, s. 417) gives a case of a man admitted under Hebra for pruritus, and presenting symptoms of diabetes insi- pidus, in whose urine, which was of a dark yellow colour, were found neither sugar nor uric acid, but, instead, a trifling sediment of needles, which were recognised under the microscope as hippuric acid. Without deciding whether the itching of the skin from which the patient suf- fered was due to the preseuce in the blood of hippuric acid, he advises that in all cases of pruritus cutaneus the urine should be examined, not only for albumen and sugar, but for other compounds, such as hippuric acid, xanthin, and kreatin. Dompeling (c Arch. Gen. de Med.,’ 1869,Pi, May) translates from the Hutch a case of diabetes caused by a tumour (sarcoma fasciculatum) of the size of a nut, in the right half of the medulla oblongata, producing partial atrophy of the right vagus and spinal accessory nerves, partial