256 REPORT ON SURGERY. rectly due to the operation. At the post-mortem no unusual local conditions were found. The patient had made an attempt to han" or strangle himself after the operation. Peri-nephritic abscess.—In the ‘ Medical Times and Gazette,’ Sept. 24, 1870, is a narrative of a case of peri-nephritic abscess under care at King’s College Hospital (Mr. Wood), with remarks by Dr. Duffin, which contain a complete summary of the literature of the subject. Particular attention is called to the peculiar form of lameness which set in; it was noted when the patient first applied. “ This attitude of the limb of the affected side has not hitherto attracted the attention in this country which it appears to merit. In none of our standard works is any allusion made to it.” With reference to the question of surgical interference, it is said that the results of puncture through the loin at an early date have been so favorable as to strongly recommend this method of treatment. Of seventeen instances thus treated, fifteen did well. One of the fatal cases was of puerperal origin, and was compli- cated with abscesses elsewhere; in the other the man was convalescent after the puncture of an enormous abscess, but exposed himself to cold and got peritonitis. Mr. Wood is of opinion that there are evident anatomical reasons for preferring, as the seat of puncture, the groove at the outer edge of the erector spinae muscles, between them and the quadratus lumborum, as in the operation for opening the colon. A vertical incision, about an inch in length, placed about an inch and a half above the crest of the ilium, will be sufficient to afford a free exit for matter, whether with or without admixture of urine. The aperture is best kept open by a Chassaignac’s tube. Dr. Bowditch narrates nine cases. He insists on the danger of chest complications, and the importance, in all cases, of looking for them; and the importance of tapping the abscess. Two cases were simple, and the tapping led to complete cure. In three the tumour was deep- seated, not distinctly fluctuating, not apparently “ripe,” yet in all of them the operation was of great service. In two no matter was obtained at the time of the operation, but suppuration was afterwards established and the tumour “ melted away.” In one case, though matter was ob- tained at the time, considerable swelling remained. In two, no opera- tion was performed, and one died and the other is the subject of incura- ble disease. A bistoury was used in five cases, in one of which severe secondary haemorrhage occurred. In two a trocar was used. He con- siders the bistoury more dangerous (as regards haemorrhage), but more speedy. (‘ Reports Boston City Hospital, 1870,’ pp. 1—69.) Penal calculus.—In a paper in the ‘ Medico-Chirurgical Trans.,’ liv, 211 Mr. Thomas Smith advocates the performance of nephrotomy in the treatment of calculus in the kidney. Nephrotomy—In the ‘ Deutsche Ivlinik,’ April 10, 1870, is an account of a case of successful nephrotomy by Prof. Simon of Heidelberg. The patient was a woman, set. 46, who had previously undergone ovariotomy, combined with hysterotomy and division of the left ureter. An ab-