58 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. and spreading with such rapidity that in August 28^ Europeans were received into hospital, of whom 41 had died by Sept. 1. It declined in October, but spread to the Isle of Brava. Batby-Berquin (“ Sur le developpement de la recente epidemie de fievre jaune a la Guadeloupe,” ‘Arch, de Med. Nav.,’ 1869, xii, p. 441) gives an account of the breaking out and spreading of the epidemie which appeared in Sept. 1868, the island having been free from it for twelve years; and concludes that it is very probable that it was not imported, but originated in the island. The infectious character of this disease, and the influence of an in- fected locality, are well shown by the following (‘ Lancet,’ 1869, ii, 583). Eight men and a serjeant of marines had been detached to cleanse the quarantine hospital at Port’s Island, Bermuda. This work was inter- rupted by the arrival of the “ Barracouta,” with yellow fever on board, the sick being removed to the island, and the working party leaving. They resumed their work twenty-seven days after the return of the survivors of the sick to the vessel, and subsequently to the departure of the latter. About a week later the sergeant and one of the men were attacked, and died on Sept. 6th, and on the 12th a third, who recovered. This last, with the rest, including the assistant-surgeon who had had charge of them, were sent to Halifax in a ship of war, the surgeon dying later of the same disease. Ballot (‘ Arch, de Med. Nav.,’ xiii, p. 54) gives an account of the epidemic in the Little Antilles, in 1851. Ho case had occurred at Martinique since 1844; in May 1850, a soldier was attacked and died, and in the course of October three others, of whom two died ; no other cases appeared either in garrison or among the population. In December, several merchant ships from Cayenne, which had lost some of their crews by yellow fever, put into Eort-de-Erance, and their men affected were admitted into the hospital, two dying, the majority recovering. About the middle of January the ships left, no other person, civil or military, taking the disease. On the 30th August, a European female, who had been six months in the colony, had a well marked attack, and died ; and from that time to the end of November, the disease became epidemic, ceasing till July 1859, and then breaking out again. Ballot concludes that this epidemic was not imported, but was spontaneous. Gauldree-Boileau i(‘Compt. Bend.,’ 1869, lxix, p. 969) mentions a belief common among the people in Peru, that the outbreak of yellow fever is due, in part, to a modified condition of the atmosphere caused by gases set free by earthquakes. Vidaillet (“ De f examen des Urines comme signe de diagnostic diffe- rentiel de la fievre jaune,” ‘Arch, de Med. Nav.,’ 1869, xii, p. 57) attempts, by examination of the urine, to obtain a certain means of dia- o-nosis between yellow, intermittent, and bilious remittent fevers. In the first the secretion is altered, diminished, and when death is immi- nent suppressed for thirty-six and sometimes seventy-two hours before it occurs. By degrees, as the urine is diminished, the urea and uric acid are also lessened, while with the decrease in the last the albumen, at first small in quantity, increases, the urea and uric acid, together with the bile-colouring matter, finally disappearing. If, twelve or twenty-