474. HEPOKT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. will easily bring out the diagnostic markings. (8) Anaemia of the lungs may be readily diagnosed by their pale, almost white, appearance; hyperaemia by their dark blue, almost black, colour. These modifica- tions of colour obviously result, especially in lungs which have re- spired, from poverty and plethora of blood respectively. (9) In hy- peraemia the colour of the lungs can be used solely for the purpose of diagnosis between vital congestion and post-mortem hypostasis. (10) Putrefactive changes also produce a dark colour in the air-lung; and, indeed, in this form of lung, as well as in that which is in the foetal state, commencing decomposition is most readily recognised by the colour. The distinction between an air-lung and one in the foetal condition first becomes impossible when the general development of putrefactive gas- bubbles, and the falling asunder of the pulmonary tissue, renders the organ no longer recognisable. (11) White hepatization, which is a rarer pathological process, renders the foetal lung brighter in colour, and very like an ansemic air-lung ; the hydrostatic test alone suffices to decide between the two conditions. (12) Through red hepatization the air-lung approximates the foetal tissue in colour, especially the hyperaemic foetal tissue ; and it is impossible from the colour alone to diagnose the pneumonic process. (13) Even in the later periods of life the colour of the lungs does not alter much, and there is nothing characteristic in the colour of the lung immediately after birth. (14) When artificial respiration has resulted in the successful introduction of air into the lungs it alters the colour of the parenchyma in such a manner that this resembles in a very deceptive manner an ansemic air- lung. It is only with great restriction, and even then not always, that it is possible to deduce from the colour of the lung itself proof that respiration has been established. Such cases of artificial respiration seldom, however, come under observation inforo. Beal and Apparent Death. Dr. Laborde* has read a paper before the French Academy, of which the following is a re'sumS. If a sharp, well-tempered, steel needle is plunged to a sufficient depth into the tissues of a living man or animal, at the end of a variable but generally very short time, the needle, on with- drawal, will be found to have lost its metallic lustre to a greater or less extent; it has become tarnished or oxidized. Cloquet, twenty years before, had observed the same fact. Laborde states that if, on the other hand, a similar needle be plunged into the muscular mass of a dead person, and be left there for twenty minutes, or even for an hour, it will be found, on withdrawal, to retain its lustre and to have under- gone no oxidation. He has repeatedly confirmed these observations, and he states that the oxidation of a needle under the conditions stated above, and the thermo-electric phenomena which are intimately related to that process, constitute a sure sign of apparent death only, whilst the complete absence of oxidation and of the concomitant phenomena is a certain sign of actual death. * ‘ Bull, de l’Acad.,’ xxxv, p. 680.