289 EXCISIONS OF JOINTS FOR GUNSHOT. pushed upwards so as almost to obliterate the optic foramen. This process is short and stumpy. The patient died of typhus fever. Nothing was known as to the injury. There was no scar noticed on the face, but the iuner wall of the orbit appeared to have been struck by the ball on its way. The fact that the bullet was still under the dura mater might explain its stopping where it did. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Oct. 23, 1869.) Excision of the ankle for gunshot.*—Not one case was recorded in the Crimea. Langenbeck performed five operations with only one death during the German-Danish war of 1864 ; in the Bohemian w_ar ol 1866, eleven with two deaths. All the operations were “ sub-periosteal, and,, in the latter war, all were secondary. During the American war, ot twenty-two recorded cases, eight were excisions of the tibio-tarsal arti- culation, and the remainder nearly all ablations ot portions of the tarsal bones. Of eighteen terminated cases twelve recovered, and six died. (‘Med. Times and Gazette,’ Oct. 15, 1870.) Excision of the knee for gunshot.—There is an able article on this subject in the ‘Med. Times and G-azette,’ Oct. 13, 1870. Only seven cases had been reported previous to the American war. Two of these. were successful, one under the care of Mr. Crompton, of Birmingham, (‘Med. Times and Gazette,’ May, 1861), and one under the care of M. Yerneuil (‘ Gazette Hebd.,’ Nov. 1862.) A third occurred during the Crimean war, and would probably have succeeded had not diarrhoea, &c., set in. A fourth was under the care of Mr. Hutchinson in the London Hospital (‘Lancet,’ April 20, 1861). The patient died of tetanus set up by an injury to the opposite leg. (The other three are not noted.—Ed.) During the late American war eleven cases have been noted with nine deaths; one of the recoveries, however, is considered “ doubtful.” The fourteen deaths in eighteen recorded instances gives a mortality of 77*77 per cent., about 13 per cent, greater than that following amputation of the thigh in military practice. Excisions of the shoulder-joint for gunshot.—A very able article on this subject will be found in the ‘ Med. Times and Gazette,’ Sept. 24, 1870. During the American war the results of primary resection were more favorable than those of secondary operations. The per-centage of mortality in the primary cases being 237, and in the secondary 38'6, giving a mean of 32-5, being a per-centage of 67 in favour of excision, as compared with complete amputation ; the latter per-centage was 39‘2. 01 twenty-nine soldiers invalided from New Zealand, six (or nearly one fifth of the whole) offered examples of resection of the shoulder- joint. The greatest length of bone removed in these cases was about four inches. In the American operations as much as five or even six inches were removed.. In Circular No. 6, of the Surgeon-General of the American Army, is mentioned the very remarkable case of a private m whom, after excision of the head and upper third of the humerus, * Hie time is hardly ripe for a retrospect of the surgery of the late Franco-German wai; the reports, so far, are unfavorable to excisions for gunshot.—(Ed.) 19