309 OVARIAN DISEASE. middle Hue of the lower lip, and then along the lower border of the jaw on the right aide to midway between the angle and the condyle. Ihe structures were dissected up as tar as the bicuspid teeth, and the jaw was sawn through at this spot, and by a few touches separated from the soft parts on its inner surface. The base and angle of the jaw were turned outwards at right angles to the zygoma, exposing the tumour. The mucous membrane covering it was divided, and it was then sepa- rated from its attachments, and in doing so the tonsil, internal carotid and jugular, and the eighth, ninth, and lower part of the fifth nerves were exposed. Very little blood was lost, and after sponging all the parts well the ramus of the jaw was put in place and fastened with wire sutures. The wound healed well, and in a month the patient was discharged well. Six months afterwards she was in good health. The tumour was lobulated, smooth and glistening on its surface; the fibrous capsule loose and filamentous. The mass was made up of lobes, and these again of lobules or leaflets, not unlike the arrangement in the cerebellum. The substance was freely lacerable under the fingers. Dr. Watson remarks, “ So far as I have been able to learn, no case of simple tumour occupying this situation and growing inwards towards the throat has ever before been placed on record. Similar growths in con- nection with the parotid, under the parotid fascia, displacing or causing atrophy of the gland, and bulging externally from behind the ramus of the jaw, are sufficiently common, and have frequently been removed.” “ The method of procedure was also, I believe, quite novel for the pur- pose of removing a tumour. A somewhat analogous mode of operation was recommended by Mr. Guthrie as a preliminary to ligature of the internal carotid, though, so far as I am aware, it was never carried out in actual practice.” A figure of the tumour is given. Ranula.—M. Gosselin has had a case considered to be one of ranula of the floor of the mouth in which the cyst-wall on microscopic exa- mination proved to belong to a hydatid cyst, and showed a number of booklets. (‘Gazette des Hbpitaux,’ No. 55, 1869, quoted ‘ Edinb. Med. Journ.,’ March, 1870.) Death from the strangulation of an ovarian tumour.—Mr. Lawson Tait was called in to see a woman, aged 48, who was suffering from a stran- gulated femoral hernia. The stricture was divided without opening the sac. The patient, however, gradually sank, the chief symptom being tympanitis. At the post-mortem examination a black, gangrenous mass was found lying in the cavity of the right ilium. This was proved to be an ovarian tumour with a long and thin pedicle, which had become twisted four and a half times on itself, thus strangulating the mass. (‘Edin. Med. Journal,’ Dec. 1869, p. 502.) Hydatid tumour simulating ovarian.—In connection with a case of hydatid tumour of the abdomen taken from an ovarian tumour, and in which an operation was successfully performed, Mr. Bryant remarks that should he have a similar case he would be inclined to adopt the same operative procedure again. Of course no attempt at removal should be made. As soon as an incision is made, and the nature