371 ANOMALIES OF STRUCTURE. suddenly experienced a sensation as if something burst from the inteiior towards the genital organs. This feeling increased, and with it a frequent desire to pass urine. The vagina was found occluded by a bluish mem- brane; fluctuation was felt in it, and also by rectum. The membrane was punctured, and thirty-two ounces of fluid escaped. The opening m the hymen was maintained by a tent. Menstruation was established. Dr. Perrin relates two cases of imperforate hymen with menstrual retention. Both were relieved by simple incision of the hymen. Char- rier at the same time related a case in which incision of the hymen was followed by escape of a white, half-fluid mucus only. Examination revealed, a short distance above the hymen, a hard muscular diaphragm, which he punctured with a trocar. A little blood flowed. Puncture was then made above the pubes, when black, fluid, odourless blood flowed. This was only palliative. The abdomen remained of the size of seven months’ pregnancy. Maisonneuve then punctured by vagina, this time with better result; the opening was maintained for several months, and chlorine washings were used every day on account of the offensive smell. Menstruation returned, and the patient recovered. (‘ Arch. Gfe'n. de Med.’) Dr. Horatio Yates, of Kingston, Canada, relates a case in which the hymen was as thick as buckskin and as firm as parchment. On incision 42 ounces flowed. She recovered favorably. A point in connection with the case is that the patient’s sister died apparently of peritonitis from menstrual retention, and that two daughters of the patient’s brother also had imperforate hymen. Dr. Yates asks, is this malforma- tion ever hereditary? (‘ Lancet,’ 1870.) Dr. M‘Clintock describes a form of contraction of tlie vagina which takes place after the menstrual epoch. There takes place a progressive diminution of the calibre of the vagina, not throughout its entire ex- tent, but commencing at its summit, and slowly advancing downwards. When the contraction has reached the level of the os tine®, the intro- duction of the finger into the vaginal cul-de-sac around the cervix becomes quite impossible, this part being so closely embraced by the ribbon-like structure. With the persistent increase of the constriction the os and cervix become quite encapsulated and beyond the reach of touch or sight. The condition is quite distinct from malignant disease or cicatricial process. It occurs in old women. (‘ Dubl. Quart. Journ. of Med.,’ Aug. 1870.) Professor E. Martin describes a condition of the vagina which is observed under particular circumstances. It consists in a temporary dilatation of the fundus, not the result of stretching or distension, but which is caused by a pathological action of the neighbouring ligaments, that is, the pubo-vesico-uterine, and the sacro-uterine, the muscular bundles of which contract. The examining finger finds the roof of the vagina so wide that it seems as if its walls were applied close to the sides of the pelvis. This condition is found when there is hsemorrhage with uterine colic, and in secondary puerperal lnemorrhage. In such cases the os uteri is open, and the roof of the vagina seems higher than usual. Under the use of means to arrest the bleeding this dilatation disappears completely in twenty-four hours. Dr. v. Haselberg says,