333 RETRO-PERITONEAL HERN I A. Retro-peritoneal hernia.—Dr. Pye-Smitb, in the £ Guy s Hospital Re- ports,’ xvi, p. 131, describes two cases of internal hernia of the form described by Prof. Treitz. “ As the inferior mesenteric artery comes off from the aorta it is directed downwards and to the left, crossing obliquely the vein of the same name, which runs upwards and inwards, in a posterior plane, to join the superior mesenteric and splenic veins. Hence these two inferior mesenteric vessels, with the left colic branch of the artery and abdominal aorta, enclose a more or less oval space to the left of the lumbar spine, very plainly seen when the arteries are in- jected and the portal system full. This is just the place where the transverse part of the duodenum comes forward from its position across the spine, and ends by making the first free convolution of the small intestine—the duodenal-jejunal flexure. The peritoneum, which before bound the gut tightly down to the back of the abdomen, is now sud- denly stretched, as it were, to form the upper part of the mesentery, and here there is very frequently to be found a semilunar fold or edge of peritoneum, with its concavity looking upwards or inwards (i. e. to the right). This fold is continuous, on its inner side, with the perito- neum covering the transverse duodenum, and forming the inferior layer of the transverse mesocolon, below, with that overspreading the inferior mesenteric and left colic arteries (which run a little below the edge of the fold), and, on the outer side, with the descending mesocolon. The slight fossa which this fold makes may be of considerable depth, running down as a pouch of peritoneum behind the fold and the inferior mesen- teric artery, with the aorta and spine to the right, the descending colon and kidney to the left, while its orifice of communication with the general peritoneal cavity corresponds with the more or less oval space above described, and its upper and outer edge covers the inferior mesenteric vein. The relation of the parts can readily be seen in any subject where adhesions have not occurred, by throwing up the omentum and transverse colon and drawing the whole of the jejunum and ileum over to the right. The space described is then at once recognised, and if there be no fossa, nor even a distinct fold of peritoneum, it is easy to make one, by pushing the smooth, parietal peritoneum, covering the oval space, downwards behind the inferior mesenteric artery.” The first, free convolution of the small intestine is very liable to pressure from within, which may produce or increase the hollow so as, at last, to produce a hernial protrusion, which may be described as “retro-peritoneal.” Various cases are detailed, and one in which Mr. Hilton operated by a vertical, abdominal incision for internal strangu- lation, and met with a condition probably resembling the above. “ The acute symptoms of strangulation would probably occur with a small rupture;” and “the earliest and most marked seat of fulness and of tenderness will be over the seat of obstruction.” “This spot is in the lower part of the epigastric region, somewhat to the left of the median line, two inches above and a little outside the umbilicus.” “ If, then, a fixed and tender swelling were found, at the spot thus indicated, in a case of probable strangulation of the small intestine high up, and espe- cially if similar attacks had preceded, we might form a tolerably safe diagnosis of this form of internal hernia. Beyond placing the patient