REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 80 a child set. 8 years, who was bitten in the little finger of the right hand, and entirely lost the second and third phalanges ; the other of a man £et. 49, bitten a little below the elbow. The symptoms are said to resemble those of malignant pustule; engorgement and inflammation of the lymphatics of the poisoned limb, and (in these cases) of the axillary glands ; precordial anxiety, articular pains, frequent and irregular pulse, dizziness, intense headache, and bilious vomiting. The local mischief appeared at first as a red spot, which gradually became larger and black in the centre, attaining, in the second case, to the size of a five-franc piece. The treatment consisted in the application of com- presses dipped in a strong decoction of fresh walnut leaves, carbolic acid in one-gramme doses, and. two grammes of chloral in a draught of 140 grammes. Thompson (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869, i, 374) contributes three cases of death from bee-stings; the longest time between the sting and its fatal result was only fifteen minutes. Gihon, “ Case of Death from the Bite of an unknown Venomous Insect,”‘Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci.,’ lvii, 387 ; Frantzius, “ Vergiftete Wunden bei Thieren und Mens- chen durch den Biss der in Costarica vorkommenden Minirspinne (Mygale),” ‘Virch. Archiv,’ xlvii, 235; “Halford’s Treatment of Snake-bites,” ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1869, i, 122,227; Mitchell, “The Venom of Serpents,” ib., 137; Fayrer, “On the Action of the Cobra Poison,” ‘ Edinb. Med. Journ.,’ xiv, 522, &c., xv, 236, &c.; Viaud- Grand-Marais, ‘ Description de la Maladie produite par l’inoculation du Venin de la Vipere,” ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1869, 186. Pellagra. Frankel (‘ Yirch. Arch.,’ xliv, 579) publishes two cases of pellagra, with details of the autopsies. The general fatty degeneration or simple atrophy of the viscera met with in these cases he ascribes to the patients eating mouldy maize, and quotes experiments carried out by Prof. Lombroso, who produced the symptoms of pellagra in 17 out of 28 men and women to whom he administered a tincture of maize-mould. He gives (ib., xlvii, 511) three fatal cases of the disease, two with mania (all Italian). In each was found extreme fatty degeneration of the heart, and fatty liver, and in two of them fatty kidneys. Also numerous fat- cells in the walls of the cerebral capillaries, with masses of yellow pigment. Further (ib. li, 150), he communicates the statistical results arrived at by Lombroso in 59 cases, in 27 of which the organs were microscopically examined. Patty degeneration of the liver and kidneys was very frequent; “ brown ” (granular) degeneration of the fibres of the heart still more so. Ulceration, hypersemia, or ecchymoses of the intestinal mucous membrane was almost universal, sometimes with atrophy of the muscular coat. The skin, heart, cerebral capillaries, sympathetic ganglia, &c., were frequently the seat of deposits of pig- ment. The supra-renal bodies were not examined. Cambieri, “La pellagra nel paese di Villanterio,” 1 Gaz. Med. Ital., Lomb.,’ 1869, 221 ; Lombreso, “ Esperienze per lo studio della eziologia e profilassi della pellagra,” ib., 308 ; Marenghi, “ Cura di alcuni pellagrosi coll’acido arsenioso in contado,” ib., 337 ; Peroni, “ Storia di tre pellagrosi curati in contado coll’acido arsenioso,” ib. 419.