399 LABOUR.—MECHANISM. lifting up the fundus, and bringing the axis of the uterus into relation with that of the pelvis, the placenta was easily removed. The woman had a strongly angular scoliosis of the thoracic vertebrae to the right. This so shortened the abdominal cavity that the uterus could not find room during pi’egnancy. This case proves that a complete retroversion of the gravid uterus may exist after the fourth month, without dilatation of the anterior wall into the abdominal cavity. The pregnancy here was in the fifth month. (‘Monatssch. f. Geburtsk.,’ Jan., 1869.) Dr. J. Goodman gives a case of retroversion; a previous unsuccessful attempt had been made by the hand in the rectum. Dr. Goodman re- placed the uterus by means of the colpeurynter placed in the rectum. (£Amer. Journ. of Med. Scien.,’ Oct., 1868.) Dr. Riedel relates a case described as retroversion of the uterus in ad- vanced pregnancy successfully reduced. A woman had retroversion of the uterus, with the usual symptoms, in the fourth month of her first pregnancy. It was reduced by pressure from the rectum ; and the preg- nancy went on to a favorable termination. In her next pregnancy the same symptoms of distress became developed when, according to her calculation, she was eight months gone. After emptying the bladder of a large collection of alkaline urine, and the bowels from hardened faeces, reduction of the uterus was effected by pressure through the rectum by means of a speculum plug padded with linen. She was delivered next day. The child weighed only four pounds, and was very small. The history shows that retroversion was, at least the second time, an original condition; although the child was small, and, therefore, probably the pregnancy was less advanced than was supposed, the uterus could scarcely have been wholly locked in the pelvis. The case was, no doubt, one of partial retroversion, the greater portion of the uterus being de- veloped in the abdominal cavity. (‘Monatssch. f. Geburtsk.,’ Dec., 1869.) III.—Labour. The Mechanism of Labour. The Rev. Samuel Haughton, M.D., has contributed a very valuable memoir on the muscular forces employed in parturition to the Dublin Obstetrical Society. He says that in the first stage of labour the in- voluntary muscles of the uterus contract upon the fluid contents of the organ, and possess sufficient force to dilate the mouth of the womb, and generally to rupture the membranes. In the second stage of labour reflex action calls in the voluntary abdominal muscles, which aid powerfully the uterine muscles in expelling the foetus. Studying first the force of the uterine muscle, he finds the mean weight of this muscle, derived from Heschl, Montgomery, and Levret, to be if 6 lb., and the mean thickness of the muscular wall to be 0 I5I9 incb, and the tensile strain of uterine wall per inch to be 15'577 5 an(l from these data he calculates that the maximum by- drostatical pressure produced by uterine contraction is 3-4 lbs on the square inch. Then citing the experiments of Dr. Duncan on the pres-