REPOKT ON SU11GEEY. 306 fined witfiin tlio limits of the fibrous envelope of the gland. If in their removal the small gland-ducts should be wounded, a fistulous opening may remain. Excision should always be practised when the growth is small. Cartilage in the testis is taken up next, then in connective tissue, then an interesting case of development of a cartilaginous growth in an ordinary ganglion is mentioned. Mr. Birkett removed the tumour from the dorsal aspect of the left carpus of a lady. Finally, cases of extoses in various situations are collected together. (£ Gruy’s Hosp. Kep.,’ xiv, p. 475.) A concretion in the orbit.—Mr. Croft narrates the case of a man, mt. 48, who had suffered more or less pain and inconvenience in the right orbit after a blow from a cricket bat at the age of 15. For some weeks he had suffered very severe pain; a small hard body could be felt beneath the edge of the orbit, and Mr. Croft proceeded to remove it. It proved to be a concretion, about the size of a cherry-stone, on section lami- nated in structure, the lamellae being of a buff colour. Mr. Croft con- sidered that, at the time of the blow, extravasation of blood occurred, and that the concretion formed in it. The extraction relieved the pain. (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ iii, p. 51.) JErectile tumour of the foot.—Mr. Poland relates a remarkable case of erectile tumour of the foot. A girl, nineteen years of age, was admitted with a soft elastic swelling, the size of a half-crown, on the dorsum of the foot, over the distal ends of the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones and spaces. There was slight swelling on the sole of the foot. The symptoms had commenced some ten years previously. After further examination indistinct pulsation was detected and elastic fluctuation. An exploratory incision let out red arterial blood, rendering the dia- gnosis of a blood tumour certain. Pressure on the dorsalis pedis artery emptied the tumour, and it was deemed advisable to ligature this artery. The relief was but temporary, and the swelling in the sole increased. The posterior tibial was then ligatured, and then the anterior after some time. The result was an apparent cure. Seven months later she was admitted, for the third time, with the following conditions:—A pulsating tumour on the sole and on the dorsum of the foot, reaching from the heads of the four outer metatarsal bones, backwards towards the tarsal bones, to within a short distance of the ankle-joint, bounded laterally by the metatarsal bone of the great toe on the inner side and by that of the little toe on the outer. The bodies of several metatarsal bones appeared partly eroded. The vessels were much enlarged, a bruit could be heard, and pressure on the femoral controlled the tumour. It was resolved to amputate the leg below the knee. She recovered well. The author quotes cases narrated by others, and comments on them. He considers his own case to have been one of new growth of “ erectile structure,” in direct communication with the arteries and veins, but not produced by dilatation of the vessels usually met with. There was no evidence to show that the disease might have originated in a mevus. As regards the diagnosis, at first a careful examination could not be made, and then there was the doubt whether it might not be an abscess