46 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. The experiments of Cavagnis, carried on under the direction of lantegazza (“ Sulla materia organica esalata dai polmoni,” ‘ Gaz. Med. itai Bomb.,’ 1869, p. 206), give the following results : 4 he expired air ot healthy and unhealthy human beings contains a very small quantity of organic matter, soluble in water, which decom- poses permanganate of potash, and blackens concentrated sulphuric acid. By means of a test solution of the former the amount of organic matter in the expired air may be measured ; it varies from one hour to another in the same individual without any known reason. The expired air of several healthy men, of one affected with typhus, one with tuber- culosis in the third stage, and one with intermittent fever, contained neither bacteria, vibriones, or any other organised bodies. The quantity of organic matter was increased in febrile diseases. The water in which the expired air was dissolved became rapidly putrescent, and swarmed with bacteria, fungi (low forms), &c. Water containing expired air was injected into the blood of rabbits without any result, whether used before or after it had become putrid. Cavagnis differs from the later observations of Lemaire on the presence of infusoria, which come, according to the latter, from the mouth; no such organisms appear in freshly expired air ; and even after repeatedly washing out the mouth with tartaric acid, or permanganate of potash, the breath still contains the organic matter, the chemical nature of which is as yet unknown. Chauffard (‘Bull, de l’Acad. Imp. de Med.,’ 1869, p. 62) gives a report on Bailly’s memoir on an epidemic of catarrhal fever, pneu- monia, and epidemic miliaria (Suette, Schweissfriesel), occurring in the village of Bains, in 1866. In fifteen days, in a population of 2500, Bailly had been called to see fifty-one patients whose illness commenced, in the midst of perfect health, with rigors, vomiting, stitch, and head- ache. He thinks it only rational to recognise but one morbid infectious agent as the cause of these disorders,—a catarrhal ferment or miasm— which should place them among the true infectious diseases, typhus, scarlet fever, measles, &c.; and to establish the connection between the catarrhal and infectious maladies he finds the common seat of both in the epithelial tissue. He would make use of the term “epithelial fever,” to describe that constitutional, infectious, epidemic disease, which comprehends the various kinds of fever, whether exanthematic, catarrhal, mucous, arthritic, serous, miliary (suettique), pneumonic, erysipelatous, &c. He thinks that the three kinds of epithelium, mucous, cutaneous, and serous, correspond respectively to the catarrhal and mucous fevers; the exanthematic; and the arthritic, peritoneal, and meningeal fevers. The reporters, though differing from the author, commend his work. Doutrelepont (“ Versuche fiber die Uebertragung der Carcinome von Thier auf Thier,” ‘ Virch. Archiv/ xlv, 501) gives the results of several experiments,* in which he made use of portions of freshly extirpated cancer from the mamma of a setter bitch. The pieces were intro- * The following is a brief summary of earlier experiments recounted by Dontrelepont:— l. Langenbeck. Injection into a dog’s femoral vein from cancer of the humerus;