ItErOItT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 56 cases only after the fourth attack. The same treatment was employed in cases of intermittent fever during 1869, and in one case only of long- continued quartan fever, which had been treated before with large doses of quinine without effect, was recourse had to quinine as well as iodine. He concludes that iodine is preferable to quinine, in that it not only arrests the fever, but prevents the tendency to relapse—a result not generally gained by quinine. No ill effects were found, either among children or old people ; and he claims that it should be considered a specific against the vomiting, &c., which occur in the severer forms of the malarious affection. Mazzolini (“ Sui risultati clinici ottenuti col solfito di magnesia nella febbre miasmatica,” ‘ Gfaz. Med. Ital. Lombard., 1869, p. 35) gives the treatment employed by Santini in 104 cases of malarious fever by mag- nesia sulphurosa. In eighteen only were there complete and rapid results; twenty recovered after its employment for seven to nineteen days ; in thirty-three the salt caused a diminution of the fever, though quinine had to be given afterwards; in twenty-nine it had no effect, and in four it caused diarrhoea. Casati (“ Sull’ azione febbrifuga della bussina,” ib.,p. 237) prescribed the sulphate of buxin (one gramme divided into six or eight doses, and given during the period of apyrexia) in forty-five cases, and obtained rapid results in thirty-seven. He lays great stress upon the rarity of relapse after its employment, and the smallness of its cost. Durosiez (“ Des lesions des valvules du coeur d’origine palustre,” 1 Journ. de Med.,’ 1870, p. 46) concludes that valvular lesions (of in- sufficiency or obstruction) may depend upon intermittent fever ; that the latter may be often noted in the previous history of patients attacked with acute articular rheumatism ; that an attack of intermittent fever may be sometimes observed in the course of this last disease, which, like dysentery, may be set up by the malarial poison; and that “ rheumatism of the spleen” appears to produce intermittent fever. Pernicious Malarial Fever. In the ‘American Journ. of Med. Sciences ’ (1870, lxix, p. 222) may be found an abstract of various reports, relating more especially to the “ Hemorrhagic Malarial Lever*’ of Alabama, and peculiar to the Southern States. It is described as a malignant malarial disease, following repeated attacks of intermittent fever, characterised by intense nausea and vomiting, a very rapid and complete jaundiced condition of the surface, as well as of most of the internal organs, an impacted gall- bladder, and haemorrhage from the intestines. These phenomena occur in an almost uninterrupted connection, attended by remissions and ex- acerbations. Though formerly rare, it has lately become alarmingly prevalent, and its cause is generally considered to be “ the almost entire neglect of drainage consequent on the changed condition of agricultural pursuits since the war.” It has been variously called black jaundice, cachemia hemorrhagica, malignant congestive fever, icterode pernicious fever, purpurzemia, yellow remittent, yellow disease, canebrake yellow fever, &c.