61 CHOLERA. raging in Macarthy’s Island, and appeared in May m the colony of Bathurst, lat. 13° proving disastrously fatal to the coloured population. These data show that the march of the pestilence in this part of the world was during two years slow and progressive along an extended line of country, a fact noticed in former epidemics elsewhere ; and. seem to suggest the presence of other factors beside personal inter- communication, without which the latter is insufficient loi 1 s extension. ... . . , Da Costa (‘ Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ lvm, p. 123) places on record, a case of sporadic cholera occurring in a man, ait. 48, and teinunating fatally by suppression of urine ; he argues that the history and patho- logical appearances show how closely allied very 1ml cases ol sporadic cholera are to the malignant disease, and how difficult it may be m isolated instances to draw the dividing line. Here were the same in- testinal lesions, and the same suppression of urine ; the difference con- sisted chiefly in the character of the discharges, which were serous, yet tinged with bile and fsecal matter: in the absence of cramps: and also in the fact that the attack commenced with diarrhoea and nausea after a hearty supper of terrapins.* Several bad but no fatal cases occurred at the same time in the neighbourhood, while neither in the preceding or following summer was cholera epidemic in the city (Philadelphia). Macnamara, in his ‘ Treatise on Asiatic Cholera’ (1870), after giving a valuable account of the epidemics of cholera since 1817, discusses its pathology; and opposing Dr. Johnson’s views, argues strongly in favour of its being strictly contagious, and propagated from patient to patient b3r water contamination. On the same grounds Cunningham (‘ Fourth Ann. Eep. of Sanit. Comm., India,’ Calcutta, 1868) accounts for the outbreak in 1867 among the pilgrims after Hurdwar fair (on the Ganges). It was resolved at the International Conference on Cholera at Con- stantinople in 1867 (Fauvel, ‘Expose des travaux de la Conference Sanitaire Internationale de Constantinople; mis en ordre et precede d’un Introduction,’ Paris, 1868), that cholera and diarrhoea are absolutely distinct affections, though the diagnosis may sometimes be difficult; that cholera starting-—if it ever does so—in Europe, never spreads far ; that all invading epidemics of cholera come from other parts of the world ; that it is always carried by ships, railways, or caravans (so Graves) ; chiefly by persons, but also by clothes soiled by cholera dejections, &c., and possibly by merchandise, animals, and cholera- corpses ; that water containing cholera matter is the most certain mode of contagion (so Snow, Jenner, N. Ratcliffe, and Billorst). Bryden’s ‘ Report to the Indian Government on the Cholera of 1866-8’ contains a mass of carefully arranged information on the several epidemics of cholera in India, illustrated by excellent maps. He does not accept the contagious theory of cholera, and explains its spread as depending upon winds and other meteoric influences. In' a despatch to the India Office received from Dr. Kirk, H.M. * A variety of turtle. The case is extremely like one of simple gastric irritation. A. J3. S.