CROUP AND DIPHTHERIA. 131 the town. Death, occurred in several cases from gastro-intestinal catarrh, and in one from broncho-pneumonia. In the last case the diphtheria of the conjunctiva occurred in the. incubation stage ot measles. A temperature of 390 C. was sometimes reached in the children, without the presence of any complication. In nearly all the cases in the last epidemic could he recognised a connection oi oph- thalmia with diphtheria of the fauces, measles, and varicella, but not with smallpox. The simultaneous occurrence of diphtheritic angina and conjunctivitis was the least frequent (two very severe cases died) ; cases in which the angina preceded the ophthalmia were also rare. The most common were those in which the angina followed from one to four weeks after the conjunctivitis, and in which the patient’s life was always preserved. Kiichenmeister (ib., 532) gives the results of numerous experiments made with reference to the solubility of diphtheritic membranes in lime water, caustic potash, lactic acid, and lactate of lime in different degrees of concentration: he concludes—1. Lactic acid makes the membrane very viscous and tenacious ; when inhaled it is objectionably pungent, and makes the mouth and lips sore. If the membrane swollen and hyaline from the lactic acid is placed in a solution of soda, it again becomes firm and opaque. 2. Salts of lactic acid, as for instance those of soda and lime, have no effect. 3. Lime water alone is an excellent medium for dissolving the membrane, most quickly and com- pletely in a solution of from 0^25 to o‘5 lime water to q/o of distilled water. 4. Very marked power of dissolving is possessed by liquor potassse. Two drops in four grammes of water are quite sufficient. 5. The membrane is dissolved most quickly and lastingly by a mixture of lime water and a caustic alkali. He considers the pulverisation on Siegle’s principle the only rational mode of employing the drugs. Albu (ib., 50) reports on the good effect of lime-water injections into the larynx and trachea in extensive laryngeal diphtheria. He intro- duced them by means of a syringe, the canula of which was pushed in between the cartilages of the trachea. No suffocative attacks followed. It caused violent coughing, and the child almost immediately expecto- rated shreds of diphtheritic membrane. He believes that five children, all under five years, were kept alive by this method several hours longer than they were expected to live. The same writer (‘Deut. Klin.,’ 1869, 29°) gives a case in which the same means were employed in a girl, set. 4^. Steiner (‘ Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,’ iv, 34) does not think that either the theory of general blood-poisoning in diphtheria, or that of a primary local affection set up by the presence of vegetable parasites, can be satisfactorily proved. He gives a number of cases treated by him, in the winter of 1869, with different drugs (lime-water, lactic acid, sesqui- chloride of iron, spirits of wine, and sublimed sulphur), and concludes that the most successful results were obtained by the local employment ol lime-water, and internally quinine, chlorate of potash, and wine; in laryngitis, by emetics, and, when these are useless, tracheotomy. The subsequent paralysis disappears under tonic treatment, or even without any treatment at all.