ENTERIC (TYPHOID) FEVER. 63 &c., of the first, and only indirectly to the water. The paper closes with some interesting cases in which the origin of the outbreak could be traced to poison given oft from privies and clothes contaminated by fever-patients, and in which the drinking-water could be proved to be absolutely blameless ; and attention is drawn to the fact that in. cases of this kind, as De la Harpe also observed, the females of the family, and those who have most to do with the immediate nursing of the patient, by removing the soiled linen, &c., are generally the first to be attacked. In the * Eep. of the Med. Off. Priv. Council for 1869,’ p. 74, is an account of the epidemic of typhoid fever in Wicken Bonant, Essex, imported from London, May 30, 1869, into a house the sewage of which drained into a brook, which again, when full, communicated “ by fissure or otherwise,” with the parish well. This case has certain diffi- culties in it, but Buchanan is disposed to say that the outbreak was somehow or another caused by the fever imported from London, and “that the water was the imminent cause of the epidemic.” The latter affected in all forty-five persons, and caused four deaths. Among 118 people who got their water from private wells, only one positive case oc- curred in four months; two were doubtful at the time of Buchanan’s visit; “the remaining cases occurred among eighty-eight persons who had no source of water supply except the parish well, some of them, however, occasionally taking water, when it could be had, from the brook. There were thus, among persons getting water from private wells, less than 3 per cent, attacked by fever; among persons getting water from the parish well, over 46 per cent, attacked.” A note to p. 74 supports the above remarks of Liebermeister on the existence of two sets of patients : nineteen fresh cases of fever occurred at Wicken Bonant between Nov. 22 and Dec. 31, 1869; of these nine derived their water from the parish well, ten from private wells: “Evidently the poison of the fever has, in this period, been furnished from other sources.” Clifford Allbutt (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869, i, 432) reports an epi- demic of enteric fever at Ackworth, in Yorkshire, the area of which was “ curiously conterminous ” with that supplied by certain “ water- troughs ” used for drinking purposes. “ A beautiful stream runs by several channels through a basin of excavation, the channels themselves then combining to form a main stream, which supplies the watering- troughs. The basin is filled with made earth, upon which are placed six or eight dwellings, with foul privies, pigsties, sumps, and other re- ceptacles of filth. The contents of these places drain at once into the porous soil and into the stream, thus accounting for its pollution.” In a part of Leeds where no other case existed, he was called to see a patient with enteric fever, who had visited the fever district at the very time when, “ allowing for the duration of his illness and the time of in- cubation,” he must have been poisoned. (Cf. with this a paper by the same “On the Propagation of Ent. Eever,” ib., 1870, i, 308. Thorne, ib., 1870, i, 426, inclines to the sometimes spontaneous origin of typhoid.) G-illespie (‘Edin. Med. J.,’ xv, 965) publishes some notes of a recent