REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 118 two openings exists in early age in the pulmonary artery, while later the balance between the two becomes more equal, without the complete inversion in their respective sizes. In all ages the two auricula-ventri- cular orifices show a tolerably uniform excess of io—n mm. on the right side in comparison with the left, while the difference between the aortic and pulmonary orifices is completely balanced in advanced age. The numbers given for the auriculo-ventricular orifices agree pretty well with those of earlier observers. The increase in their width from age is only very small. The ratio found in the arterial orifices depends evidently on senile dilatations of the larger arteries; that it does not occur in consequence of increased resistance in the arterial system is proved by its absence in cases of chronic lung affection or of con- tracted kidneys, in individuals under forty. Probably this dilatation originates in the diminished elasticity of the vessel-walls in advanced age. ITe discusses the influence exerted by senile changes in the arte- rial openings on the relative proportions of the valves and the orifice, and he has made a series of measurements of the space covered by the valves, when unfolded to their greatest extent, and a comparison of the numbers so obtained with the measured width of the aortic ori- fice. These measurements give in youth and middle age a constant excess of the space thus covered over the width of the aortic opening, while in later years the reverse more frequently holds. From this it follows that, at least in the aorta, senile changes cause a disposition to relative insufficiency; but that this is a very rare consequence is shown by the author’s own experiments, in which in senile hearts, where the deficiency in the superficies of the valves reached its highest, no insufficiency of the valves was found on pouring in water. Measure- ments of the ratios borne by the superficies of the auriculo-ventrieular valves to the same orifices, in the healthy state and in insufficiency, present nothing new. Davies (‘Proc. Royal Soc.,’ xviii, 265), taking the measurements of Peacock, Reid, and Bizot, finds that in different animals as well as in man the same relations exist between the area of the tricuspid and that of the mitral as between those of the pulmonic and aortic orifices; so that if the area of any three be known, that of the fourth may be correctly calculated; and as the ratio of the areas in any two corre- sponding orifices is almost constant, by measuring two openings in a healthy heart on one side, the size of the other two may be deduced, or, one healthy orifice being known, the area of the corresponding orifice can be approximately determined. He illustrates these asser- tions from the action of various diseases upon the heart, and traces out the reasons for the difference in magnitude of the four areas, upholding the view that the time of ventricular contraction is much shorter than is generally believed. He imagines, a view which has hitherto escaped the notice of physiologists, that at the end of the diastole the whole of the contents of the ventricle is momentarily at rest, and ready to take up a new movement in a course nearly at right angles to its line of entrance from the auricle. Trotter (‘ Journ. of Anat. and Phys.,’ iv, 295) holds that Davies has failed to establish the law he has enunciated, and concludes that the