.REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 186 falling oft the scabs and crusts ; it relieves the tension and heat of skm. He used it principally in the severe forms of eczema, the result being the same whatever the seat of the malady. Under its employment he finds that acute eczema does not last longer than a month or six weeks. He recommends it also in impetigo of the head in children ; still more in impetigo barbie, in pityriasis, in the headaches caused by chill in persons attacked with pityriasis capitis ; in general inveterate psoriasis, and in pruritus of the vulva. Lipp (‘ Arch. f. Derm, und Syph.,’ i, 326) publishes two cases of psoriasis and one of eczema cured by the hypodermic injection of ar- senious acid. It was successful in the former after Fowler’s solu- tion had failed; in the latter other means were used as well. Eight grains of the acid were injected in the first case of psoriasis in forty- eight days, and four grains in the second in thirty-eight days. Aft'er giving details ol the phenomena observed after injection, he observes that the balance in favour of injection as against internal administration consists in the certainty of absorption, the absence of impaired diges- tion, the smallness of the doses, and the short duration of the treat- ment. Neumann (ib., 424), in an article on the effects of carbolic acid on the economy of vegetable parasites and diseases of the skin, gives the results of experiments made on animals and plants. He concludes that it acts as an energetic poison directly upon the nervous system. Its effect is thrice as rapid when injected under the skin than when taken into the stomach. It is useful in scaly affections, and espe- cially in their early stage. It may be employed as a caustic in chronic inflammations and in parasitic diseases. It arrests the germinating process in the lower vegetable organisms, though for this purpose solu- tions stronger than ordinarily recommended must be employed (1 in 300 or 500 instead of 1 in 1000). Eanvier (£ Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ 1869, 314) holds that desquamation of the skin depends neither on excessive or rapid production of cells, but on a certain mode of nutrition originating in the mucous cells of Malpighi (etat muqueux), the latter being persistent instead of becom- ing horny and adherent. He asserts that just before desquamation he has always found the nucleolus of the cells in the rete Malpighii dilated so as to form a vesicle which touches one part of the circumference of the nucleus (at Balbiani’s canal?). This “mucous condition” may occur without desquamation in a greater or less number of the cells in plaques muqueuses. Baudot, ‘ Traite des Affections de la Peau; d’apres les Doctrines de Bazin/ Paris; Damon, “The Neuroses of the Skin, their Pathology and Treatment,” Philadelphia, 1868, pp. 114; Id., “The Structural'Lesions of the Skin, &c.,” ib., pp. 255; Hardy, “ Cours Clinique des Maladies de laPeau; premiere lecon,” ‘Ann. de Dermatol.,’ i, 475. 'Erythema.—Hutchinson (£ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1869, i, 352) records a case of erythema nodosum in a boy, set. 12, and suggests that the ascertained facts connected with the affection agrees better with the characters of the exanthems than with any other group of diseases, in that it has fixed stages, which are transitory, uninfluenced by treatment,