ATHEROMA OF ARTERIES. 3-35 the side was not stated. No difficulty during the operation was met with in four of the cases. In two cases, division of the external jugular vein was found necessary, and both the ends were tied withou any subsequent ill effects. In one, only, was the scalenus muscle partially divided. In three cases there was much difficulty, owing to induration around the vessel. In one case the artery required to be tied m two places. In one the sac was punctured; possibly, also, m a second. Haemorrhage was the cause of death in eight cases. ‘ There are only five cases, out of the whole number of twenty-one cases ol ligature ol the third or second portion of the subclavian artery, for subclavio- axillary aneurism, in which the application of the ligature was the actua cause of death.” “ Eespecting the success or fatality of the opera- tion, as far as the published statistics are concerned, we cannot arrive at any satisfactory conclusion.” Hitherto all kinds of cases have been grouped together, and deaths have been included not in any way con- nected with the operation. Some remarks are made on the accidents occurring during the operation, the immediate and consecutive effects of ligature, and the occurrence of haemorrhage. With regard to ligature between the scalene muscles, Mr. Poland states that the recorded cases fully prove its practicability, without inj’ury to the phrenic nerve or want of plug at the seat of ligature. The “statistical report” will be concluded in the next volume. Atheroma of arteries,—Dr. Moxon passes in review the different pub- lished opinions as to the nature of atheroma, and then states his belief that mechanical strain is the main cause of atheroma of arteries. (1) The male sex shows greater liability than the female, and men are accustomed to more laborious work. It is, I think, true also that when women are the subjects of atheroma they have been used to an unusual amount of such work. (2) Whether this be true as among females or not, it is certain that the portion of the male population who evidence the greatest amount of atheroma are those who use the greatest mus- cular exertion, e.g. sawyers, oarsmen, soldiers, persons accustomed to excessive, athletic exercises, &c. (3) Those diseases that diminish the volume of blood, and the consequent pressure within the arteries, pre- vent, almost entirely, the occurrence of atheroma of the arteries, c. g. -phthisis, mitral obstruction, &c. (4) The pulmonary system of vessels escapes the liability to atheroma almost entirely. Against the theory, that the difference between venous and arterial blood accounts for this, is the fact that when the right heart is greatly hypertrophied, from chronic bronchitis or mitral disease, the pulmonary artery then gets commonly affected, although its blood is more venous than usual, (jj) The earliest appearances of disease occur at points where the strain upon the coats is greatest. The peculiar liability of the cerebral, splenic, and cardiac arteries to atheroma may be explained by the me- chanical tension under which the circulation takes place. The pecu- liarities of this circulation are discussed. (6) The arteries of the lower extremities are more liable than those of the upper to atheroma. (7) The appearance of the interior of the aorta ^in the early stages of atheroma supports the evidence that the occurrence of it is due to