169 affections of the stomach. operation was repeated on the 25th; on the 28th she had further vomit- ing and five to six pints more were pumped out. The pumping and washing were repeated at intervals of two to four days, and, as she improved, less frequently. In the last matters evacuated there were no sarcince found; these growths had been present in great numbers in the fluids first removed. On Dec. 12, 1867, the patient was discharged well, her pale and thin condition having changed to one of bloom and strength. Ho dilatation of the stomach could be detected; her general functions were good, and she was perfectly able to do her work. In the middle of May she weighed 78^ lbs., and on Dec. 12, 106 lbs. Up to May, 1869, there had been no return of the stomach affection. He gives eleven other cases in which the same treatment was employed. He defines the sort of cases in which it may be expected to be effectual. It cannot cure, though it may give the greatest relief, in (1) carcino- matous stricture of the pylorus; (2) very considerable cicatricial ste- nosis of the latter; (3) moderate stenosis in cases in which, in conse- quence of chronic gastritis, the walls of the stomach have undergone a permanent degeneration. In explanation of the extraordinary results obtained, he argues that the paralysed stomach regains its contractility, and is thus able to overcome any moderate impediment, just as a dilated urinary bladder does after repeated use of the catheter. At first (1. c., p. 470) he had thought it extremely probable that the excessive dilata- tion of the stomach might transform the pyloric opening into a linear slit through which the passage of the contents would be difficult, but observations on the dead body did not confirm this view. The washing out of the stomach with Vichy or soda water has a very good effect in reproducing the normal power of digestion, in addition to the extraor- dinary relief of the general condition which usually and immediately follows the operation. The author discusses at length the mode of production of the peculiar convulsive attacks which are sometimes observed in patients suffering from pyloric stenosis, and concludes, not without reason, that they depend upon the deficiency of water in the blood and tissues, especially in those of the nerves and muscles, which is the consequence of the diminished absorption in the intestines. Habershon (‘Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ 1870, 399) gives the case of a woman, set. 47, who presented a remarkable and unusual form of dis- ease, the diagnosis of which was obscure. She had dropsy, and oedema ot the abdominal parietes. After death was found sarcomatous disease ot the pylorus, together with chylous serum in the peritoneum. He gives also two other cases in which the symptoms of the gastric disease were obscured. The first was that of a man, set. 45, with spinal curva- ture and jaundice, in whom the liver was supposed to be affected. Here, though there was scarcely any vomiting, a large cancerous ulcer was found reaching from the pylorus for three inches at least into the stomach. In the second case, a man, set. 44, vomiting, which had occurred earlier, was absent for several weeks before death; and this fact, though there was evident deposit in the pyloric region, had caused the supposition that the disease had commenced in the pancreas, and spread thence to the stomach. After death most extensive ulceration ot the latter was found, both on the anterior and posterior surfaces,