327 A WINGED CATHETER. A icinged catheter.—For retention in the bladder Mr. Holt has devised an india-rubber catheter with “ wings” near the extremity of the catheter. When the catheter is being passed along the urethra the wings lie close to its side. When fully introduced they expand and prevent the instrument from easily slipping out. They will not prevent the attempt of the surgeon to pull the catheter out, as they then double back. (‘ Lancet,’ Feb. 19, 1870.) Mr. Barnard Holt gives a further account of his catheter, mentioning some improvements (May 14, 1870). A modified catheter.—Dr. Glourley “in obstinate cases of stricture ’ uses a whalebone “ guide” of very small size, the point being made spiral by immersion in hot and then cold water. If the guide passes into a false passage others are passed on, by its side, till the passage is filled up and one, at last, passes into the bladder. Then a catheter, properly con- structed, passes, along the “guide,” into the bladder. (‘Lancet,’ June 19, 1870.) A retentive catheter.—Dr. Bichard Davy has exhibited to the Medical Society of London a catheter easy of introduction, of retention, and of withdrawal. It consists of a French vulcanite catheter, through which a string is passed, emerging at a clean hole, an inch and a half from the point, and then, bridging over the usual opening for the urine, is inserted securely at the point. The opening for the urine is on the opposite side. The handle consists of a leathern collar with a slot in it. There is a knot on this end of the string, and a plug on it. The catheter is introduced on a stilette, fixed by pulling the string and fastening it at the distal end of the catheter behind the slot; the plug may be used or not, and withdrawn after unfastening the string. Its action is ana- logous to that of a finger, the string being the flexor tendon, and the elasticity of the catheter that of the extensor. The terminal portion of the catheter, three fourths of an inch, is reduplicated. (‘ Lancet,’ April 9, 1870.) Extra-capsular fracture of the neck of the femur.—Dr. Ogston dis- cusses the mode by which these fractures are brought about, the con- ditions met with afterwards, and the causes of displacement. Figures are given of specimens. (‘Med. Times and Gazette,’ May 15, 1869.) Arterial thrombosis.—Mr. Batho records the case of a soldier, set. 27, a pale, thin man, of general, good character and temperate habits. He had been admitted into hospital several times for syphilis, but he had not had any serious or acute disease. His left leg became gangrenous, and no pulsation could be felt in the anterior or posterior tibial arteries, whilst the common and superficial femoral arteries could easily be felt to beat. Amputation of the thigh was performed, and it was noticed that the popliteal artery was partially occluded by thrombosis. Mr. Batho remarked that the man’s symptoms, when first seen, differed in no perceptible respect from those of common continued fever, and his disease was in consequence returned as such. Thrombosis was dia- gnosed twelve days later, and the subsequent progress of the case veri-