375 DISPLACEMENTS OP UTERUS. Soon after she complained of great dysuria and bearing-down. Coin- plete prolapsus ensued. At the end of eighteen years she came undei treatment. The tumour was returned within the pelvis. A bag was passed into the rectum and inflated so as to raise the fundus uteii, whilst a tenaculum seized the hypertrophied anterior lip of the uterus, and by this double action the uterus was restored to its normal posi- tion. It was found that when the anterior vaginal wall was firmly seized by a hooked forceps, and if at the same time, by a sound in the cavity of the uterus, efforts were made to produce retroversion, no amount of force compatible with the integrity of the tissues could suc- ceed in doing so; but when the forceps was removed, and the tension on the vesico-vaginal septum thus removed, there was not the slightest difficulty in producing retroversion. An operation similar to that practised by Sims for cystocele and prolapsus uteri was performed. The anterior wall of the vagina was depressed so as to make two ridges, longitudinally extending from the meatus urinarius to within half an inch of the os uteri. These ridges were denuded, and the surfaces were brought into apposition by seven interrupted sutures. When the parts had healed, it was found that even by a sound in the uterus retrover- sion could not be produced. The patient made a good recovery, the retroversion and prolapsus being cured. (‘Amer. Journ. of Obstet.,’ 1869). Dr. T. G-. Thomas gives the histories of four cases of chronic inversion of the uterus, and describes a bold course of treatment. He quotes, first, a case by Dr. Emmet. The uterus had been inverted about six months ; there was great ansemia and hectic. Under ether attempt at forcible taxis by pressure on the fundus was made, without much effect. Then Dr. Emmet allowed the fundus to drop into the palm of his hand, and, passing the thumb and fingers around the mass, as high as possible within the cervix, he continued to enlarge the space between the neck and inverted body, by rapidly expanding the fingers as much as possible, at the same time making a steady upward pressure, with a view of returning first the portion last involved. This manoeuvre, aided by endeavouring to roll out the inverted portion by tbe other hand on the abdomen, was successful in effecting considerable dilatation of the cervix, and partial return of the uterus. After three hours and fifty minutes of this manipulation, in which Drs. Emmet, Sabine, Elliott, and Thomas relieved each other, the uterus was completely returned. She recovered and became pregnant. Case 2.—Inversion of four years’ standing. After two unsuccessful attempts at forcible taxis, a Barnes’ dilator was placed in the vagina for some hours. This was found to have supported the uterus well. Attempts were then renewed, trying Dr. Noeggerath’s plan of pushing in one cornu ; considerable hemorrhage compelled to desist. Next day efforts on the plan described in the preceding case were sustained during nearly three hours, when the uterus was reduced. The woman re- covered. During this proceeding Dr. Thomas held a plug of boxwood, with a handle a foot long, forcibly in the cervical ring by the abdominal walls. He believes this mode of exciting counter-pressure is more