285 ANEURISMS OE GLUTEAL AND SCIATIC ARTERIES. of the wounded gluteal artery, although difficult, is the best means of arresting hemorrhage; if this be impossible, ligature of the common iliac and hypogastric arteries is indicated. . In wounds of the sciatic artery compression should be tried before ligature. 2. Aneurisms o the gluteal and sciatic arteries are not so rare as has been hitherto believed. Thirty-five cases are known, among which gluteal aneurism occurred in 3‘5, as many cases as sciatic. Traumatic aneurisms, includ- ing the diffuse, circumscribed, and varicose, are more, rare than the spontaneous; among the latter a case of anastomotic aneurism is noted. 3. Traumatic aneurism follows punctured and gunshot wounds and falls; the spontaneous form is often the result of contusions, and sometimes has attended pregnancy. In not a few cases the cause, is unknown. 4. Traumatic aneurism of the gluteal and sciatic arteries has always occurred in males; the spontaneous in twice as many males as females, and more frequently on the left than on the right side. Most of the subjects of spontaneous aneurism were from 30 to 40 years old, and otherwise in good health. 5. Traumatic aneurisms appeared after violent hsemorrhage, either at once, in the course of a few days, or gradually; the formation of the spontaneous took place either within a short time or very slowly, and was attended with more or less pain. 6. Aneurisms of the gluteal artery are, as a rule, situated at the upper edge of the great sacro-sciatic notch, but sometimes spread over the greater part of the buttock. Aneurisms of the sciatic artery lie deeper, towards the tuberosity of the ischium, and, where the artery has an abnormal course, reach the upper part of the thigh. A portion of the aneurismal sac may remain within the pelvis. 7. The size in both forms varies from a slight enlargement to a swelling as large as a hen’s egg, or sometimes even as large as a child’s head. The tumours are soft and elastic ; fluctuation may be felt in them, and they may become in- flamed. 8. There is in almost all cases a strong pulsation, isochronous with the heart-beat, and moving the tumour rhythmically up and down. Whizzing, buzzing, and blowing murmurs are heard on auscultation. In both kinds of aneurism there is almost always pain in the tumour itself and in the course of the sciatic nerve ; it may be followed by numbness and lameness. 9. The diagnosis of gluteal and sciatic aneurism is often difficult; it is founded on the combination of pulsation, aneurismal murmur, and pain in the sciatic region. The diseases between which and aneurism the diagnosis has to be made are abscesses, medullary tumours, cysts, and sciatic hernia. The diagnosis between gluteal and sciatic aneurism depends principally on the position of the swelling. 10. The aneurism, if left to itself, is liable to cause death by rupture and haemorrhage. It very rarely remains stationary for a year. Spon- taneous recovery is noted in one case only. 11. The means of treatment which have been adopted are compression, with or without Valsalva’s method; laying open the sac and tying the gluteal artery; simple ligature of the gluteal, sciatic, internal, and common iliac arteries; galvanic puncture, and injection with chloride of iron. 12. Injection with chloride of iron recommends itself as the best method of treatment, on account of its simplicity, comparative safety, and shorter duration! Its results are permanent; it has been proved useful in varicose,