128 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Paralysis of the Vocal Cords. Mackenzie and Evans (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1869, i, 356) give four cases of laryngeal paralysis, two of inspiratory, one of phonic, and one in which the two forms occurred together; in one of the first set of cases there was carcinoma of the oesophagus pressing on the recurrent nerves. In the complicated case, and in one of the first, laryngotomy was performed successfully. In his remarks on the cases, Mackenzie holds the exact opposite of Ziemssen’s view (‘ Deut. Arch. ,’ iv, 386), that bilateral pressure on the recurrents causes absolute loss of voice and no dyspnoea, and asserts that in investigating the aetiology of laryn- geal paralysis there is a tendency to overlook, the possibility of idio- pathic disease in the muscles themselves. Heller (‘ Deut. Archiv,’ vi, 277) publishes the history and autopsy of a case of right-sided vocal paralysis in a woman, aet. 50, from carcino- matous degeneration of the right vagus and recurrens, extending pro- bably from the bronchial glands, from which the new growth had spread to the pleura, pericardium, and bronchi. The first symptoms during life were periodical pains between the shoulder-blades and slight hoarse- ness in speaking, which became worse after some weeks, with the addi- tion of dry cough and some distress on bodily exertion. On examination there was dull percussion with deficient respiratory murmur and pecto- ral fremitus over the lower lobes of the right lung in front and behind, and coarse vesicular breathing, with a few moist rales over the upper lobe. The laryngoscope showed slight swelling and redness of the mucous membrane of the epiglottis, the arytenoid cartilages, and false vocal cords; the left arytenoid cartilage and the corresponding true cord were completely immovable, the former crossed over to the right of the middle line in the attempt to speak; the right aryte- noid cartilage remained erect in the position in which it is found after death, and the corresponding true vocal cord was bellied outwards and immovable. After several days there was great increase in the dyspnoea, and in an attack of this kind the patient raised herself hurriedly in bed, struggled for air, and fell back dead. The autopsy showed general carcfnoma, in addition to that of the right vagus and recurrent nerves, and atrophy of the latter. JNfavratil (‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1869, 382) calls attention to the fact that vocal paralysis by itself seldom causes hoarseness. The change of voice is generally only a symptom of the accompanying catarrh, and disappears with the cessation of the latter. The form of the paralysis may be either incomplete (paresis) or complete (paralysis) ; either cen- tral, originating in the fossa rhomboidea of the medulla _ oblongata, or peripheral, in which case either the vagus in some part of its course, or its termination in the larynx, or the laryngeal muscles themselves, are affected (cf. the experiments of Cl. Bernard, Kolliker, and Czermak) ; lastly it may be unilateral or bilateral. After reviewing the laryngo- scopic changes found, the muscles concerned, the relations of tone, and the origin of alterations of voice, he declares that the question whether the paralysis be central or peripheral may be generally decided with