REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 48 pillars from the last are affected. The disease is highly contagious, the dry dust from the silkworm nurseries, as well as the dejections of the animals, causing considerable mortality in a few days, the latter, whether fresh or dry, easily communicating the disease when healthy and unhealthy caterpillars are mingled. The same easy mode of con- tagion exists in the disease named la pel vine, either from direct contact of one worm with another, but most markedly through the excremen- titious matters, which lose their action very rapidly, the contagious corpuscles being destroyed by drying in ordinary air. These cor- puscles exist in the eggs as well. Baybaud-Lange (“ Sur la maladie des morts-flats et sur le moyen do la combattre,” 1 Compt. Rend.,’ lxviii, p. 1275) concludes from repeated experiments that lafldcherie is generally occasioned by the deleterious action of the ammoniacal gases set free from the cells (des litieres), under the influence of a warm electric temperature. If the caterpillars be placed under a bell-glass, with a cup of ammoniacal fluid beside them, they will become affected (mort-flat) at the end of an hour. Cleanliness, ventilation, vinegar thrown upon the floor and over the mulberry leaves, so as slightly to moisten them, make up the treatment recommended. Mecklenburg (‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1869, p. 259) finds from his ex- periments that chlorine, methylic acid (Holzessig), aud the carbolic acid of commerce, fail to make the vaccine-lymph ineffective. Temperature and Fever. After a general survey of the researches of others on temperatures taken in different diseases just before death, and the results of various experiments made by himself on animals, &c., Valentin (‘ Deut. Arch, f. Klin. Med.,’ vi, 200) draws the following conclusions : — 1. The production of heat after death takes place in all bodies, though varying in individual cases. 2. As long as the production is relatively greater than the loss of heat, elevation of the temperature occurs after death: consequently either from, a. increased generation of heat; l. diminished loss of heat. 3. The production of heat after death originates mainly in the con- tinuation of the vital heat-producing processes, even after the cessation of the heart’s action. Increase in these processes, caused chiefly by nervous influence, causes also great post-mortem production of heat. 4. The rigor mortis, though a certain amount of heat may be set free by its development, is of only subordinate influence in elevation of the rp Post-mortem decomposition has probably a considerable share in the production of heat after death. 6 The loss of heat is far less, under pretty much the same conditions, than durum life. Consequently, post-mortem elevation of temperature is possible withqut anv increase in heat-production Baumler (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869, ii, 207) records some experiments on the time necessary for the accurate scientific observation oi the mercurial column when placed in the mouth, axilla, or rectum. Agiee-