223 SUBCUTANEOUS SECTION OP FEMUR. all probability, the bead of the pin was impacted in the left bronchus. After waiting some time the operation was performed, and a pin, three and a quarter inches in length, was withdrawn. A figure of the pin is given. The child nearly died during the operation, but recovered well. (‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ Oct. 1869.) Removal of foreign body from larynx. A boy, ten years old, swal- lowed a penny while playing, and though a probaug was passed, it could not be dislodged from its position. He remained with more or less difficulty in breathing, cough, &c., for six years, when, on laryngoscopic examination being made, “a bright metallic-looking line,” evidently the penny, impacted in the posterior wall of the upper cavity of the larynx, was clearly seen. The penny was removed with forceps. Under the care of Hr. Cameron. (‘Liverpool Reports,’ iv, p. 181.) Subcutaneous section of the neclc of the thigh-bone.—Mr. Adams gives a summary of the different plans hitherto adopted for the relief of a firm anchylosis of the hip-joint at an acute angle. Dr. Barton divided the femur “ between the two trochanters,” and obtained a restoration of the straight position, and also useful motion for seven years, when anchylosis occurred. Dr. Sayre removed a piece of bone from between the trochanters, obtaining “an artificial joint” and useful limb. It occurred to Mr. Adams that a much more simple operation might be performed, by the subcutaneous division of the neck of the femur, about its centre, within the capsular ligament, using for this purpose only a long tenotomy knife, and a very small saw constructed for the purpose, with an inch and a half cutting edge, and a long, thin shank, like a tenotomy knife. Mr. Adams put this plan into action (Dec. 1, 1869) in the case of a young man, eet. 24, affected with extreme deformity at the hip-joint. Forcible extension under chloroform having failed, a tenotomy knife was entered a little above the top of the great trochan- ter, and carried straight down to the neck of the thigh-bone, the muscles divided, and the capsular ligament opened freely. The knife was with- drawn, and a saw (three eighths of an inch in width, with a cutting edge an inch and a half in length, at the end of a slender shank three inches in length) was carried along the tract straight down to the bone. This was sawn through obliquely from above downwards and inwards. No haemorrhage followed, and a compress of dry lint, a plaster, and a bandage, were applied. The limb moved freely in all directions, but before it could be brought into a straight position it was necessary to divide the tendons of the long head of the rectus and of the adductor longus muscles, and to cut through the tensor vaginae femoris. The limb was fixed in a straight position, and bandaged to a long inter- rupted Liston’s splint. No inflammation whatever followed the opera- tion, no swelling nor redness of the skin nor any deep suppuration, but the wound healed slowly. On the thirteenth day motion was encou- raged, and continued for a fortnight, but the hip became painful, and it was determined to abandon all idea of obtaining motion. The man was confined to bed (he had been getting about with crutches) and a weight applied. At the end of three weeks anchylosis appeared to have en-