REPORT ON SURGERY. 31G Dr. Carnochan. The patient was quite free from trouble sixteen months after the operation. Other cases operated on by other surgeons are mentioned. Dr. Blackman notes that in his case the pain returned with almost increased violence twenty months after operation (Oct., 1870). Removal of a polypus from the ventricle of the larynx.—Dr. Rich- ardson having diagnosed a pedunculated polypus springing from be- tween tbe superior and inferior vocal cords on the right side, and having been unable to remove it with forceps, determined to operate. An incision was made in the middle line of the neck, from the hyoid bone to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. The thyroid cartilage was divided with scissors in the median line; its lower part was ossified. The polypus was then cut off with scissors. The patient was at once able to “ run up and down the scale;” chloroform had not been given. The edges of the wound could not be brought together without the sutures being at once torn open by cough. The patient did well, and the wound was healed on the thirty-ninth day. Woodcuts of the larynx before, duriug, and after the operation are given, and drawings of microscopic sections of the tumour. The author concludes that there are certain polypi which can only be removed by opening the larynx, but this ought to be done only to the smallest extent possible. In this case the tumour was known to be of the ventricle, and therefore only the thyroid cartilage was divided, not the membranes. To the slight extent of the incision the perfect cure is probably due. The microscope showed the tumour to consist of fibrous tissue and of glands. (cMed. Times and Gazette,’ Nov. 20, 1869.) Army hospital gangrene during the American tear.— In the January and April numbers, 1869, of the ‘ New Orleans Medical Journal,’ will be fouud an article on the subject of hospital gangrene from the pen of Dr. Joseph Jones. The sources of his experience were the hospitals attached to the Southern armies during the American civil war. He states that in many cases the appearance of gangrene in the wound was preceded by fever ushered in by a chill; but as the influence of malaria was also frequent among the soldiers, it was sometimes difficult to assign the chill and fever to their true causes. In some cases reported to him there was said to have been nothing of this kind. Its mode of origin may be looked at in four ways—as a local disease, depending on contact with putrid, animal matter ; as a constitutional disease, depend- ing on imperfect hygienic conditions ; as both local and constitutional in character; and, finally, as the result of a specific poison. The author adheres to the third view, for, from his experience, hospital gangrene may arise in those exposed to exhalations from gangrenous wounds, without abrasion of surface; that it may be communicated without direct contact; that in some cases it does not make its appear- ance immediately after exposure to contagion; and, finally, that in crowded wards the condition may be propagated within the system with such rapidity that death may result before much local change has taken place.