REPORT 0\ SURGERY. 210 in a little volume containing interesting cases of all kinds, entitled, Posthumous Extracts from Veterinary Eecords, 1843.’ Some valu- able remarks on the morbid anatomy of tetanus, generally then follow. He also notes a case in which recovery followed after the administration of belladonna. A labourer, 18 years of age, was seized with tetanic symptoms after exposure to weather and a°month before admission. The treatment consisted in the internal administration of one eighth of a grain of belladonna (extract) every four hours, for one day ; every three hours, for second day and every six hours, for thirteen days more. The pulse averaged 70. He was then ordered quinine. Five cases are noted in which tetanoid spasms occurred in connection with other diseases. Congenital dislocation of the clavicle. — Dr. E. W. Smith describes a specimen of congenital luxation of the clavicle. No history attached to the specimen. The clavicle was imperfectly developed, the aspect of its surfaces was altered. There was no acromial articular surface, nor one on the scapula and the surfaces of the acromion process were altered in direction. A figure of the condition of parts is given. The acromial end of the clavicle rested against the spine of the scapula, two inches from the acromion, which was excavated. The anterior (now inferior) surface of the clavicle was worn considerably where the shaft moved on the coracoid. (;Du’o. Quart. Journ.,’ Nov. 1870.) Reduction of dislocation of the humerus.—Mr. Lowe has found the plan of elevation of the arm, combined with extension and pressure on the scapula, invariably successful. He places the patient in a sitting posture on the floor, stands on a couch or chair, and (having removed his boot) places his left foot on the acromion, and then extends vigorously. He mentions seven cases. (‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Hep.,’ vi, 4.) In remarking on a case of sub-coracoid luxation of the humerus of six and a half months’ duration, and the dangers attending attempts at reduction, Prof. Eichet states that Sedillot reduced one, more than a year old; Smith after ten, nine, eight, seven, and six months; Mal- gaigne after eight months; Caron du Pillard after six months. The patient in the present case was a man thirty-two years of age. The plan adopted was to move the humerus in every direction to break down adhesions, while traction was kept up and, then, suddenly, to release the extension and carry the hand across the chest, while the head of the bone was lifted into its place. The result was a partial success, and the patient was left for a second trial of which no note is made. After alluding to the various views held as to the propriety and practicability of reducing old standing dislocations, he remarks, that one single case of reduction, well observed, is more demonstrative than all the argu- ments urged against it by the anatomo-pathologist. (‘ Med. Times and Graz.,’ Sept. 24, 1870.) In a case of fracture of the neck of the humerus with sub-glenoid dislocation of the head, Mr. Walton succeeded in reducing the disloca- tion at the end of ten weeks. The patient was a stout man 48 years old. The union of the fracture was not firm. A long splint was fastened on each side the limb; a broad strap was placed across