121 ABSCESS AND TUMOURS OE THE BRAIN. Bottcher (‘ St. Petersb. Med. Zeit.,’ xv, 313) considers that numerous metastatic abscesses, found in the brain ot a soldier, set. 26, were due to embolij which had reached it from an abscess in the lungs ; lung- pigment was present inside the cerebral abscess. Cholmeley, “ Circumscribed abscess in the left cerebral hemisphere,” ‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xix, 22. Murchison, “Embolism of left middle cerebral artery, and disease of the brain, &c.,” ib., 1 ; and see Ogle, ib., 27; Moxon, ib., 29 ; and Bastian, ib.,xx, 106. Tumours. Chappel (£ Lyon Med.,’ 1869, i, 541) gives a case, with autopsy, of a man, tet. 60, in whom was found a sarcoma at the base of the brain, compressing several nerve-roots, and causing the symptoms observed during life. Perroud (ib., ii, 81) also gives the case and autopsy of a female, set. 43. There were found four gummatous tumours in different parts of the brain, and one in the left amygdala of the cerebellum, which compressed the upper part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, and had produced the polyuria from which the patient had suffered during life (Cf. Dom- peling’s case, p. 94 of this Report). Besides these there was well- marked syphilitic affection of the liver. Chapman (‘ Grlasg. Med. Journ.,’ 1869, 164) publishes the history and autopsies of three men, between the ages of 25 and 32, in each of which were found several tumours, composed, according to him, of pri- mary cancer, occupying the grey matter of the convolutions, varying in size from a pea to a walnut, of firm cartilaginous consistence, the larger ones undergoing fatty degeneration at their centres. The immediate cause of death in all the cases appeared to be softening of the cerebral substance from the pressure of the tumours. In one case secondary tumours were found in one lung. One case was supposed during life to be one of general paralysis of the insane; the other two were marked by the occurrence of epileptic fits. Ebstein (‘ Yirch. Archiv,’ xlix, 143) describes at length a remarkable case of an osseous tumour occupying a great part of the left hemisphere of the cerebellum, without any symptoms during life. The patient, a woman, set. 44, died of dropsy from emphysema and dilated heart, but except an apoplectic attack, due to cerebral haemorrhage, a few days before her death, there were no symptoms of the nervous system being affected in any way. The tumour consisted of true bone, with com- plete Haversian systems in many parts. On analysis, it was found to contain gelatin, and phosphates and carbonates of magnesia and lime. It had apparently exerted no pressure on the surrounding parts, the nervous substance wasting as it grew. The pons and crura cerebelli, the membranes, &c., were quite unaffected. It appeared to have com- menced in the centre of the hemisphere, probably from the interstitial neuroglia. The author remarks on the negative results of most patho- logical processes in the cerebellum, as bearing on the question of its function, and collects eight well-established cases of destruction of more or less of this part of the brain, in proof of the inconstancy of the symp-