LEUCHiEMIA. 83 found in the liver, which was pale, but otherwise healthy.^ The spleen was large, with its Malpighian corpuscles increased in size, but there was nothing abnormal, as the microscope showed, either in it or in the thymus; the stomach presented several nodules of the same hind, of the size of peas. All alike consisted, microscopically, of lymph-cells in a finely granular stroma. The lymph-glands were but slightly enlarged ; the white and red blood-cells were remarkably diminished. Moss (‘ Statistical Report of Health of Navy for 1868,’ App. ii) is convinced, from the observations of a few years, that in the navy, at least, an increase of the colourless blood-corpuscles is a frequent accom- paniment of certain disordered states of health, arising apparently from rapid change of climate, and declaring themselves after unusual expo- sure to fatigue; that it is neither a mere leucocytosis, nor has it the fatal character or absolute permanence of leucocythsemia; that it is accompanied by enlargement and induration of lymphatic inguinal glands (Virchow’s ‘Lymphatic Leuchaemia’). Caton (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1870, ii, 188) gives a case,with autopsy, of general enlargement of the lymphatic glands, and temperature of 1020—103°, in a boy aet. 8 years. Hofman (‘Wien. Med. Wocli.,’ 1870, 984) gives minute analyses, with tables, of the urine in a case of splenic leucocythcemia in a man set. 30, the symptoms of whose disease he gives. He measured not only the urea and uric acid, but all other elements of the urine. His con- clusions are:—(1) the colouring matter is increased, either from greater destruction of the red-cells, or from an abnormal derivative of the colouring matter of the blood, itself having strong colouring capacity. (2) The whole amount of the phosphates is considerably diminished, those of the alkalies more than the earthy phosphates. (3) The quantity of the excreted chlorine, sulphuric acid, and crea- tin undergoes no change. (4) In contrast to numerous other cases, in which the diminution of urea was very great, in this there was no decrease. (5) The urid acid is increased absolutely in proportion to the urea. (6) Ranke’s view that the diminution of urea cannot be completely accounted for by the increase of uric acid, seems entirely confirmed by this case. (7) The increase in uric acid does not depend on a febrile condition of body. (8) The normal quantity of urea appears to correspond with the view that the diminished oxidation is the cause of incomplete decomposition of the uric acid, and so its increased excretion. (9) It is impossible to recognise with any certainty the presence of hypoxanthin, though lactic acid and albumen are met with, the last probably due to irritation of the kidneys by the uric acid* Salkowski ( Virch. Arch.,’ 1, 174) details especially his researches on the urine m leuchaemia. He finds the uric acid increased, but, follow- ing up the observations of Scherer and others, he concludes that though hypoxanthin or a, product closely resembling it may occur in the urine of patients suffering from this affection, it may also be found in health so that its presence is of no diagnostic value.