446 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY. ETC. cord Those children m whom growth is unusually rapid are more ex- posed to these diseases. It is observed that children seized with scarlatina whilst growing rapidly are more liable to brain coraplica- 1 hlstory of chorea shows the influence of growth. Bouchut attributes the relation to the more active circulation of the period of growth inducing greater irritability of the spinal cord. Growth is not without pathogenetic influence in the skin and muscles. Eruptions and outgrowths are more common; and the muscles are more liable to hypertrophy, atrophy, spasmodic contractions, and the so-called essential paralyses. It is not maintained that growth produces these diseases, but that it constitutes a factor in these diseases of childhood which ought not to be disregarded. Dr. O. Poliak (‘Wien. Med. Presse,’ 1870) examines the use of clysters in infants. Prom experiment on the dead body he finds that clysters can hardly penetrate beyond the ileo-caecal valve; that from 60 to 120 grammes of fluid is enough to reach this boundary; if more is used it flows back from the anus. They are best applied with the child lying on its side. According to indications he uses water-clysters, camomile in flatulence; strengthening clysters concentrated to con- sistence of syrup, in intestinal catarrh and cholera infantum ; astringent clysters, in follicular enteritis, of alum or nitrate of silver, and vinegar clysters consisting of half vinegar, half water, on account of its derivative virtue in hyperaemic conditions of the brain and its membranes. He also uses narcotic clysters, made by adding one drop of laudanum to the strengthening or astringent clysters. Poliak speaks highly of this therapeutical method. Dr. Behrend contributes a memoir (‘ Journ. f. Kinderkr.,’ 1870) on cretinism, idiocy, and their distinction, basing upon his own observations and the article on the subject, in the ‘ Nouveau Dictionnaire de Med. et de Chir..’ 1869, by M. Lunier. He discusses the question of here- ditary transmission of cretinism. Lunier says the aphorism, “ Goitre is the father of cretinism,” proceeds from those who do not distinguish cretinism from idiocy, and is based upon an erroneous interpretation of facts. Behrend says heredity plays but a secondary part in the genesis of cretinism, for—(1) Healthy parents who have lived in other localities, and there brought forth healthy children, have, after living some time in a place where cretinism is endemic, brought forth children more or less afflicted with the complaint; and, vice versa, parents who, during residence in localities where cretinism is endemic, have produced cretins, have, on removing to healthy localities, produced healthy children. Ackermann has seen women who have removed from a cretinic district whilst pregnant bring forth cretins. (2) Although it has been disputed by Eabre, still it appears true, that children born in a country free from cretinism and brought into a cretinic district, if given to nurse there, have become cretins. (3) In cretinic districts it is not seldom the case that children born of healthy and intelligent parents, after living a longer time in a cretinic district, become affected with the disease, but escape if they remove to a non-cretinic district. (4) Half-cretins, or the goitrous, who had cretinous children in a district affected with the disease, have had healthy children as soon as they have