85 MORBUS ADDISON IT. bably obscured by the previous development of a secondary and but little understood blood-alteration, which very probably causes the bronz- ing of the skin. By far the majority of cases of morbus Addisonn, judg- ing from their generally chronic courseware complicated with diseases of other organs, which, according to their importance, may occasion essen- tial variations in the course, and post-mortem appearances, of individual CaWolff (‘Berl. Klin. Wochensch.,’ 1869, 173, &c.) publishes three cases of the disease. The first occurred in a merchant’s apprentice, jet. 18, who, in June, 1868, had suffered from various gastric disturbances, and was admitted into hospital in October, so weak as to be unable to leave bis bed. His skin presented a general brownish coloration, in which two sorts of pigment-stains were noticeable—very dark brown, almost black, ntevus-like spots from the size of a pin’s head to that of a lentil, and blotches broader than these, which, from their size, colour, and frequently irregular outline, might have been taken for freckles. On the buttocks and elbows the pigment had a smoky appearance ; the part of the skin corresponding to the hair follicles were less coloured than the interlying spaces, so that it presented a somewhat reticular arrangement. Yellowish-brown pigment-spots were visible on the con- junctiva, and mucous membrane of the mouth. The general symptoms pointed to supra-renal disease; in January, 1869, he was attacked with irregular intermittent fever, and died four days later with severe nervous symptoms. The post-mortem appearances and microscopic examination of the skin are given very fully. Several peribronchial deposits in the lungs ; both suprarenal bodies at least three times their normal size, irregularly Dodular, and very firm. On section they appeared knotty, the several knots surrounded by thick connective tissue, more or less cheesy. The nerves of the solar plexus, the semilunar ganglia, and their nerve- branches running to the supra-renal bodies were enveloped in thick and tough connective tissue. Several nerves of the solar plexus pre- sented ampulliform swellings before their entrance into the correspond- ing semilunar ganglia. Microscopically both supra-renal bodies and semilunar ganglia showed great increase in the connective-tissue ele- ments. The convulsions which sometimes occur in the course of mor- bus Addisonii Wolff refers to a paralysis of the vessels of the brain, analogous to cases of vasomotor epilepsy. The second case was that of a man in whom a large abdominal hydatid cyst, the exact position of which was doubtful during life, was evacu- ated by puncture in 1866, a fistula remaining. In 1868 was first noticed a dark colouration of face and forehead, contrasting strongly with the pale conjunctivas and mucous membrane of the mouth. All the general symptoms of morbus Addisonii were present, and though the patient seemed somewhat to improve after a large incision for the exit of the pus had been made, the vomiting and diarrhoea returned, and he died of ex- haustion in Peb. 1869. Autopsy.—Pleuritic adhesions on both sides, in which lay several old tubercles ; several peribronchial deposits in both lungs ; spleen and liver enlarged, amyloid, the latter beset with new lymphatic growths, from the size of a lentil to that of a pea. The same