42 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. digestion and respiration ; the sputa not losing this property, even though employed several hours after rejection and dried; (2) phthisis is transmissible; its production can and must take place by means of the emanations from patients. Yerga and Biffi (“ Sulla inoculabilita della tubercolosi,” c Gaz. Med. Lombard.,’ 1869, p. 21) publish experiments which may be divided into two series; the first, in which the animals were inoculated with grey tubercle ; the second, in which other morbid products were used. (1) A number of rabbits were inoculated with grey tubercle; most died in consequence of the operation. Lour died after from eight to ten days, wasted in spite of good nourishment, anaemic, and with distinct increase of white blood-cells; in two of them were found superficial ecchymoses in the lungs; in one oedema of the subcutaneous tissue of the abdominal wall. The matters introduced under the skin at the base of one e'ar, and at the inguinal region, were found but little altered. Seven of the survivors were killed after from two to five months; they also were emaciated. Their viscera were healthy, except the lungs, which contained deposits of tubercle, in three in the right apex, in two in the left, and in the remaining two on both sides, just under the pleura and at the obtuse margin. The tubercles showed no tendency to softening. (2) Inoculation with the broken down tissue from the cavities of tuberculous lungs gave the same results, with the addition, in two of the rabbits used for the series, and killed one after six, the other after nine months, of enlargement and hardness of the mesenteric glands. Facts worth observing in these experiments are—the emaciation and anaemia, with increase of the white blood-cells, without any pathological changes in the lungs ; and the rare implication of the mesenteric glands in spite of the inoculation in the inguinal region. No pathological changes were found in the offspring of inoculated rabbits, killed, perhaps, too soon. Eight cats operated upon in the same way remained lively and healthy, and were killed, some after two, others after three months, and one after two years; in two only were found ecchymoses in the lungs, in none a trace of tubercle. The mat- ters inoculated were found enclosed in a thick-walled cyst of connective tissue ; they had only partly undergone fatty degeneration, and even in the cats which had lived some months after the operation, were still recognisable. Experiments on four fowls and twelve frogs gave nega- tive results. In a further paper (“ TTlteriori richerche sulla tubercolosi,” same jour- nal, 1870, p. 82) the same authors give four other series of experiments: (1) Cinnabar, chloride of lime, glycerine were injected, as in the former experiments, in six rabbits; three were killed after three months and the rest after five; all were perfectly healthy, without a trace of tubercle. (2) Eio-ht rabbits were inoculated by the injection of the fluids of gangrenous, cheesy glands, epithelial and medullary cancers. The ani- mals, killed’ after eight months, showed only a few pulmonary ecchy- moses and cheesy peribronchitis. (3) Bits of tow, purulent matter, and fragments of medullary cancer