77 MEASLES—SMALLPOX. fever. The symptoms in all the cases, four of which are given m full, were alike, consisting of an abundant maculated eruption, wit out prodromata, extremely fugitive, in no case lasting more than eight hours, with hut slight, if any, rise in temperature or pulse, not accompanied by catarrh or desquamation, and having no abnormal eiiect on the general condition of the child. In one case the eruption was immediately preceded by measles. He holds that rotheln is an affection sui generis, which ought to have an independent position m the list or dermatoses; that the skin affection is an acute hypersemia, without exudation, and that the disease is not contagious. . . Murchison (‘Lancet,’ 1870, ii, 39d)> aif historical and clinical account of rotheln, holds that, though partaking of the characters ot both measles and scarlet fever, it has some claim to he reckoned specifically distinct from both; he concludes that the rash appears on the second day, or even within the first twenty-four hours ot the pie- monitory fever, lasts from four to ten days, disappears with branny scales, and is always accompanied with sore throat, scarlatinous tongue, and catarrh; that the disease can propagate itself; that it does not protect from scarlet fever or measles, nor does a former attack of either of these diseases give any protection from it. Occasionally it is severe or fatal, and in rare instances is followed by dropsy. Poland, “ Acute Death of the right Superior Maxillary and Malar Bones after Measles, puriform infiltration of orbit, sloughing of eye, cerebral symptoms ; death ” (thrombosis of right cavernous sinus), Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1869, i, 383 ; Fagge, “ Case of Measles followed by Diphtheria, death,” ‘Lancet,’ 1869, ii, 436; Emmingshaus, “ Ueber Rubeolen (Rotheln),” 1 Jahrb.f. Kinderheilk,,’ 1870, iv, 46; Scattergood, “ Morbilli and Rubeola,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1870, i, 121. Variola. Simon (‘Arch. f. Derm.,’1870, ii, 347) calls attention to the pro- dromal exanthem of smallpox, appearing first on the second or third day of the attack, lasting from one to nine days, and met with generally on the hands, dorsum of feet, front of knees, and elbows; he gives thirty-six cases in illustration. Quinquaud (‘ Graz, des Hop.,’ 1S70, 383) concludes that the following lesions are met with in smallpox:—(1) Acute hypertrophy of the lymphoid organs, the spleen, glands, and closed follicles of the intes- tines. (2) Degenerations of the lungs (lobular or vesicular pneumonia), of the heart, liver, kidneys, testicles, &c. The granular fatty degenera- tions of the muscles or viscera, with or without inflammatory mischief, are met with especially in severe cases of variolous poisoning, with death during the earlier days of the disease. The presence of albumen in the urine is frequent in alcoholic patients, rare when variola occurs in healthy subjects. Durosiez (ib., 1869, 134), following in the steps of Sydenham, attempts to establish the possibility of the association of variola and typhoid. The former frequently occurs during convalescence from the latter, with undoubted symptoms, and yet modified, sometimes appearing only as fever and vomiting, without eruption, or eruption without fever; or the two diseases may be combined in such a manner