54 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. simple remittent and pseudo-continuous in only ’6 per cent. Relapses were very frequent, and the patients remained long under the influence ot the malarial cachexia, pale, wasted, puffy, and without energy. -Barat discusses at some length the question of the origin of the epi- demic, and considers that if, according to the researches of Lemaire, Hammon, Morren, Salisbury, Van d. Corput, &c., the existence of organised bodies (germs, microphytes, &c.) is to be admitted, it is quite conceivable for a cyclone to have brought them to the island, where the idea is almost taken for granted, some going so far as to lay the blame of the importation of thq palmella* to the introduction into Bourbon of the Pistia radiatct, which may have supported the fever-causing agent; at any rate, the telluric and atmospheric influences of the year were favourable to the hatching of germs, and the latter grew and multiplied with marvellous rapidity. Pauli (“Zur Frage iiber subcutane Chinininjection gegen 'Wecli- selfieber,” ‘Deut. Klin.,’ 1869, p. 277) having treated 256 patients affected with ague with subcutaneous injection of quinine, in the course of an epidemic at Posen during March, April, May, and June, 1869, is convinced that the disease may be combated as successfully as by in- ternal administration of the alkaloid, and with much smaller doses (even one third); but that though employed in this way it does not always prevent relapses. It is most certainly indicated in those cases in which internal treatment is impossible, in intermittent fevers of the pernicious type, which demands rapid action of the drug, and perhaps in very young children. In the same journal (1869, p. 474, “ Wechselfie- berstudien”) he gives a short analysis and a few notes of cases occurring in the same epidemic. Of fifty-eight patients forty-five had tertian and. thirteen quotidian symptoms; of the former, the paroxysms occuri’ed thirty-one times in the forenoon, nine times in the afternoon, and five times in the night, in two of the last from shortening of the intermission; of the latter, seven times in the forenoon, twice in the afternoon, and four times in the night. The first attacks were preceded or accompa- nied by catarrh of the intestinal, and sometimes of the respiratory mu- cous membrane, and, in a third of the patients, herpes facialis was pre- sent. In several cases the disease took on a pernicious character, but terminated favourably. Calvert (“ Application de l’Acide Phenique au Traitement des Fievres Intermittentes,” ‘ Compt. Rend.,’ 68, p. 191) gives some observations made at the Mauritius, under the direction of MM. Barraut and Jessier. The carbolic acid had been employed at first for the disinfection of the sewers and cesspools, and all sources of the poison. It was later in the epidemic administered in doses of 7 centigrammes in an ounce of water with a small quantity of brandy three times a day; and it was also employed in twenty-seven cases hypodermically in doses of 3—4 centi- grammes in 20 drops of water; the attacks ceased immediately after the use of either means, and relapses were less frequent than after * On this plant and its connection with ague cf. Salisbury “On the Cause of Inter- mittent Fevers, with investigations which tend to prove that these Affections are caused by certain species of Palmellre” (‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sei.,’ 1866, li, 51). He finds also specific spores in gonorrhoea, syphilis, rheumatism, &c. (ibid,, liv, 359; lv, 17, &c.).