1111 ‘ Comptes Rendus,’ 1869, pp. 274 and 1478. 18 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. smallest amount of sugar, and that the sugar is, consequently, either destroyed in the circulation itself, or is excreted from the blood into the several organs of the body, as, for example, the muscles, in favour of which is the identity of muscle with liver sugar as demonstrated by Meissner. As a general rule, irritation and active movement of the animal considerably augmented the amount of sugar present. Pfliiger* finds that after destruction of the arterial nerves of the liver by pinching, bile continues to be secreted, whilst their irritation arrests it. Bogomolofff gives an account of the peculiarities under spectrum analysis of Gfmelin’s reaction of the bile, the biliary acids, chromogen and Pettenkofer’s test. Other papers relating to digestion are, one by Hermann, an abstract of which will be found in Dr. Gamgee’s “ Beport on the Progress of Physiology,” in Humphry and Turner’s ‘ Journal of Anatomy,’ iv, p. 179, and Yoit’s papers in the ‘ Zeitschrift fiir Biologie,’ 1869-70. Boll | gives an elaborate description of the connective tissue of glands and of that of the submaxillary gland in particular. Banvier (in the French translation of Prey’s ‘ Histology’), describes the structure of the acinous glands, as the pancreas and salivary glands. Giannuzzi § has fully described the pancreas and mammas. Bollett || furnishes the results of his observations on the caical glands of the stomach, whilst Puky Akos has examined the mucous glands of the oral cavity ; and Schlemmer,** the glands of Brunner. Kemmerichff discusses the formation of casein and of fat in the milk. A series of papers published in the ‘Lancet’ (i, 1869), and another series in the ‘Pharmaceutical Journal,’ 1869, 1870, contain the most recent exposition of Liebig’s views on the nutritive value of foods. Some interesting papers on various kinds of food will also be found in the recently established ‘ Pood Journal.’ The valuable researches of Messrs. Parltes and 'Wollowicz J J on the effect of alcohol on the human body (ethyl alcohol), and that of Binz§§ on the same subject, also deserve careful perusal. LYMPHATICS. ABSORPTION. M. Eanvier|||| describes certain serous or plasmatic canals in tendinous tissue. The tubes are longitudinal, 3-1000 mm. in diameter and 1-50 * ‘ Archiv f. Physiologies 1869, p. 190. f ‘ Centralblatt, 1869, 528. t < Schultze’s Archiv f. Mikrosk. Anatomie,’ v. § ‘ Ricerche eseguite del Gabinetto de Fisiologia della R. Universita de Siena,’ Anno ii, and ‘ Rivista Scientifica della Accademia de Fisiocritici,’ ii, p. 38. || ‘ Centralblatt f. die Medicin Wissensch.,’ No. 21, 1870. ‘ Sitzungsberichte der Wien. Akad., 1869, lx, p. 31- ** Idem, p. 169. ft ‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ ii, p. 401. ++ ‘ Proceed. Roy. Soc.,’ xviii, p. 362. §§ ‘ Practitioner,’Sept., 1869.