511 SEWAGE. be subjected to the process. (8) These conclusions have no reference to the disposal of trade or manufacturing refuse, which, it is assumed, ought to be dealt with, as belonging to the business in which it is pro- duced, by the people who produce it, and not to come witlnn the province of local authorities to provide for. In the second paper the general conclusions at which Dr. Buchanan and Mr. Kadclifl’e arrive are as follows (i) Excrement may be re- moved from a town and safely disposed of on more than one principle, and the same principle does not need to be applied in all quarters of the same town. (2) As regards the parts of a town inhabited by the poorer classes, a watercloset system may be managed so to be entirely applicable to the circumstances of the most ignorant and careless popu- lation. Essential conditions of such applicability, however, are, that the structural arrangements should be adapted to their purpose and be independent of the person using the closet, and that the management should be wholly undertaken and efficiently done by the servants of the sanitary authority. Where these conditions are observed as tho- roughly as they are observed in parts of Liverpool, we believe that waterclosets are the best means of removing excremental matters from the poor neighbourhoods of a town. (3) The earth system affords a second way of safely disposing of excrement. It is, as shown in the special report on earth-closets, an essential element in this system also, as applied in poor neighbourhoods, that the entire management of it shall be conducted by the sanitary authority. (4) The midden system may be modified so as to greatly reduce nuisance and danger from it. We have described the form of midden-closet which we think presents fewest objections. We cannot speak of satisfactory safety in the use of this form of midden-closet, partly because we hardly expect to see it carried out with daily emptying, and partly because the materials of the midden would probably be retentive of some excremental matters ; but if, under certain circumstances middens constructed as above should be tolerated, it would, we think, be scarcely less than essential—first, that they should, if in a densely populated neighbourhood, be emptied daily, or under other circumstances at least once a week; and, secondly, that the arrangements for excrement removal should be wholly in the hands of efficient persons appointed by the sanitary authority. (5) The pail system presents several advantages for poor town districts. It may safely be employed for excrement removal if movable pails of defined construction be used, and be changed every day for fresh pails. Such a system, involving similar construction or constructive altera- tions as are required for the toleration of a midden system, offers ad- vantages over the latter in regard of facility for frequent removal of excrement, in regard of safety from nuisance, and probably m regard of profit in disposing of excrement as manure. (6) Those who use the closet may, both under the pail and the midden system, be expected, with due superintendence, to do the cleansing of it, so far as merely affects ordinary comfort and decency; but such action as concerns the effectiveness ot the closet as a means of excrement removal must be taken by the sanitary authority itself. (7) If these conditions be accepted, it follows that there are various demonstrable methods which