] 33 TILE RESPIRATORY MURMUR. Panpenheim, “ Das Verhalten der Diphtheritis zu den YVitterungsverlmltnissen und otlirhe daraus sich ergebende Folgerungen fiber das Wesen jener Erkrankung, Jomn. ?Ktaderk?’ o Ms “Diskussion fiber die Tracheotora.e beim Krup, das zarte ilfer tf tone KSndikation,” ib„ 433- “ K-bjb™ u»d Kopa,,ab.ham ^gen Diphtheritis und Krup, Polyp im Kehlkopfe Tracheotomie, ib , 313. Tel x Beit- ,oo-e zur Kentniss der epidemischen Diphtheritis, Wien. Med. Woch., l8/°> ; 16° Roser, “ Zur Verstiindigung iiber den Diphtherie-Begriff, ^ Arch. d. lei v., x 103. Classen, “ Ueber das Wesen der Diphtheric ’ ‘ Centralbl., 1870,470. Oran “’Note sur le Traitement du Croup,” ‘ Gaz; Hebd., 1870, 470.^ Bergeron, De l’Emploi du Cubebe dans la Diphtherie a l’Hopital Sainte Eugenie, Gaz. des Hop., t8-o 10- Mercier “Nouveau Mode de Traitement de PAng.ne Diphtherique Epi- w'?’ °?/;h xQr.o’s6o Johnson “ The Indications for Tracheotomy in Laryngitis S”hthti,:“9Br?t ST- .S7o, i, So. Wilks, » Clinical Remark, on Cronp,” ib., 621. And cf. different papers discussing Johnson s views on the Pathology of Croup, &c., in the same volume. Goodfellow, “Case of Croup, Tracheotomy, Death, Med. Times and Gaz.’ 1S60 ii, <12. Paton, “Three Cases of Tracheotomy (two of Croup and one of Diphtheria, the last and one of the first fatal),” ‘ Lancet/ 1869,^11, 339. Stewart, “ On two cases of Diphtheritic Paralysis simulating Locomotor Ataxy, Edin. Med. Journ./ xv, 988. The Respiratory Murmur. Benson (‘ Dubl. Journ.,’ xlviii, 127) after referring to the first de- scriptions by Cheyne, in 1818, of ascending and descending respiration, •which Stokes considered to be pathognomonic of fatty degeneration of the heart, and which, more recently, Little holds to be produced by a loss of balance between the two ventricles, gives the case of a girl aged nineteen in whom the phenomenon was present. She had disease of the mitral valve, and, a fortnight after admission, became hemiplegic on the left side. The periods of apnoea and respiration were equal, each lasting for fifteen seconds, and each one separated from the other by the same length of time ; so that each minute was divided into four periods, two of perfect apnoea and two of puerile respiration. This form of breathing was present only while the patient was allowed to remain in a semi- comatose state. The autopsy showed, in addition to the mitral mischief, haemorrhage into and softening of the right corpus striatum. Benson thinks that this respiration must be considered in great part a nervous phenomenon. Lutz (‘Deut. Arch.,’viii, 123) records the occurrence of the same phenomenon in a boy set. 5 years, during an attack of scarlet fever, Lraentzel (“Ueber das Cheyne-Stokes’sche Bespirations Phaenomen,” ‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1869, 277) publishes the case and autopsy of a man set. 32, in whom there was no fatty degeneration of the heart, and in whom the same phenomenon was present. After briefly review- ing the views of Cheyne, Stokes, and Schriff, he gives those of Traube, who has observed it in cerebral haemorrhage, cerebral tumours, in uraemic coma, and in the third stage of tubercular meningitis, under conditions in which there was not even a history of vascular disease, much less of fatty degeneration of the heart. He found it present also in sclerosis of the coronary artery. He considers that it arises from a deficient flow' of arterial blood to the medulla oblongata, the seat of the centre of the respiratory nervous system, and will occur, therefore, whenever, in consequence of greatly diminished oxygen supply, the