107 EPILEPSY. Epilepsy. Luys and Voisin (“ Contribution a l’anatomie pathologique du cer- velet, du bulbe, et des corps stries dans l’epilepsie,” ‘Arch. Gen. de Med.,’ 1869, ii, 641) contribute a paper, in which they endeavour to show that the lesions met with in epileptics are not exclusively local- ised in the medulla oblongata, but are spread over an area much larger than is generally supposed ; that the brain-substance itself is involved; that the efferent fibres emerging from it (cerebellar peduncles), as well as the different masses of grey substance with which the latter are con- tinuous, are very often the seat of damage ; in fine, that convulsive symptoms may be explained physiologically by a lesion of different parts of the base of the brain, but especially by that of the region correspond- ing to the sphere from which the influence of the cerebellum is dis- seminated. The authors briefly recount the anatomy of the three pairs of bilateral prolongations (inferior, middle, and superior cerebellar peduncles)—de- scribing the fibres of the first principally connected with the olivary body of the opposite side, after encircling, as with a collar of grey substance, the anterior regions of the pyramids, this same collar often presenting an abnormal greyish or amber-yellow appearance in epileptics; the fibres of the middle peduncles intruding into the interstices of the ascending spinal fibres, and then becoming successively the grey substance of the pons; the fibres of the superior peduncles gathering into bundles in the very mass of the red centres of Stilling, and indirectly, by means of multiple processes, stretching from them into the grey substance of the corpus striatum, and forming extremely fine networks of yellowish matter. They then proceed to show that these same parts of the nervous centres are, par excellence, the regions of convulsion. In sup- port of this view they give nine cases. In six of these they found lesions of the anterior bundles of the anterior pyramids, accompanied by alterations of the rhomboid bodies (corpora dentata of the cerebel- lum) and the lamime of the cerebellum ; in two the corpora striata were evidently attacked, and the lesion was on the side opposite to the diseased cerebellar lobe. “ There was in these few cases a sort of pathological trio, which agreed satisfactorily with the physiological relations which the authors believe to exist between the cerebellum, certain parts of the medulla oblongata, and the corpora striata.” * In the ‘ Arch. Gen. de Med.’ (1869, i, 243, 490) will be found an ab- stract of a paper on the artificial production of epilepsy, read before the Academy of Sciences by Brown-Sequard, and of the discussion which followed it. Guinea pigs which had been operated upon were exhibited. After recounting how, twenty years ago, he had shown that after section of one of the lateral columns of the cord, about the tenth dorsal vertebra, epileptic or epileptiform convulsions could be excited in these animals by pinching the skin of the face and neck, and at a later period occurred spontaneously several times a day, the author pro- * With reference to the anatomical facts brought forward in this paper, cf. Luvs in •Tourn. de 1’Anat. et de Physiol.,’ 1864, p. 225.—A. B. S.