NERVOUS SYSTEM. 23 A considerable number of researches have been directed to the deter- mination of the mode in which the nerves terminate at the periphery. Thus— . . P. Michelson * * * § has given a careful and accurate description of the histology of the corpuscles of Pacini. The central part he considers to be protoplasm, and the fibre running through it a finely striated axis- cylinder, without either medullary or primitive sheath, as shown by the degeneration consequent on section. An excellent paper on the same subject is given by M. Ciaccio,f an analysis of whose observations is contained in the ‘Academy’ (i, 1870). He shows that the capsules are much less numerous in the bird than in the mammal, and the corpuscles are altogether of simpler structure. The nerve-fibre always ends in a cell. GrandryJ describes the mode of nerve termination in the skin, and especially in the corpuscles of Yater, in which he maintains that axis cylinders terminate in one or several rounded granular masses (of pro- toplasm). According to Nepveu § the structure of the corpuscles of Pacini is nearly the same in apes, and especially in the higher apes, as in man. Schultze has briefly described the Pacinian corpuscles in his article on the nervous system in Strieker’s ‘ Manual of Histology.’ Podcopaew|| and Helfreich^[ also treat, the former of the mode of termi- nation of the nerves in the skin, the latter of their termination in the conjunctiva and sclera, where, he states, they form a subepithelial plexus. Bense ** * * §§ gives full details of the mode in which the nerves terminate in the sexual organs. He states that round terminal bulbs are common in the glans penis and clitoridis. Krause ft describes the nerves of smooth muscle as terminating in a kind of terminal plate, consisting of protoplasm, in which are imbedded several oval transparent nuclei. Triitschel J J maintains that the nerves of the stomach end in terminal bulbs, some of which give off extremely fine processes, that run up between the epithelial cells. Pfluger§§ extends his views on the mode of termination of nerves in glands to the liver. He believes the nerves terminate in the cells themselves. The subject of the termination of the nerves in the salivary gland- cells is very fully discussed by Mayer|| || and by Krause,^ the former of whom corroborates Pfluger’s statements, whilst the latter appears to * ‘Archiv f. Mik. Anat.,' v, 145. f Moleschott’s ‘Untersuch. zur Naturlehre,’ Giessen, 1870. X ‘Journal del’Anatomie,’ vi, p. 390. |j ‘ Annales des Sciences Naturelles,’ xii, p. 326. § ‘ Schultze’s Archiv,’ v, p. 506. IF Pamphlet, Wurzburg, 8vo. ** ‘Zeitschrift f. rat. Med.,’ xxxiii, p. 1. ft ‘Reichert und Dubois lteymond’s Arcliiv,’ 1870. It ‘ Centralblatt f. d. Med. Wiss.,’ 1870, No. 8. §§ ‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv.,’ii, 459. IIJI ‘ Archiv f. Mikroskop. Anat.,’ vi, p. 100. !l H ‘Reichert und Dubois Reymond’s Arcliiv,’ 1870, p. 9.