SCARLET FEVER. 501 than sulphur. A quarter of a pound of brimstone, broken into small pieces, should be put into an iron dish (or the lid of an iron saucepan turned upside down), supported by a pair of tongs over a bucket of water. The chimney and other openings are then closed with paper pasted on, and a shovelful of live coals is put upon the brimstone. The door is then quickly shut, the crevices covered with paper and paste, and the room kept closed for five or six hours. After this, a thorough cleansing should be effected; everything washable should be washed, and all other things be cleansed by proper means. “Fumigation of clothes, &c., may he easily carried out on a small scale by burning a sufficient quantity of brimstone matches. “ Provided there be no unsuspected drain, sewer, gulley, watercloset, pipe, or cistern, or other source whence the inmates receive fresh infec- tion, scarlet fever can be and is daily arrested in private houses by the above means carried out in detail; but only by persons having space, wrealtb, intelligence, and the wish to save life. It is far otherwise in the crowded houses of the poor, where the healthy are mixed with the sick, and even with the dead. “ Public hygienic measures are then necessary, and the following are the measures which the Medical Officers of Health recommend: “ Measures of Public Hygiene, and the present Impediments to their Adoption. “ i. Information should be diffused through every family by printed bills as to the contagiousness of scarlet fever, and the mode of prevent- ing it. Expense has hitherto prevented the adoption of this measure. “ 2. Every case of scarlet fever, and especially every first case, should be immediately reported to the sanitary authority. At present this is not done. There is no provision by which cases of infectious disease, even in poor-law and public practice, shall be made known to the Medical Officers of Plealth. In some districts, by an act of courtesy, information is forwarded, at more or less prolonged intervals, and so, usually, at a late period of the illness. It is only when death occurs that the Health Officers with certainty hear of the occurrence, and by that time (often a week or ten days after death) the contagion may have spread more or less extensively. They never hear officially of pri- vate cases; it is held to be the interest of all parties to conceal their occurrence. "Without early and ample information, it is impossible to put in force the provisions of the Sanitary Act directing the disinfec- tion of houses, &c., and forbidding the exposure of disinfected persons and articles. “3. Every case so reported should be immediately visited by the Medical Officer of Health or his skilled assistant, who should see that all proper precautions are in operation. But even with full and early information, adequate precautions could only be superintended by the devotion of all the time of the Health Officer to public work, for which the sanitary authorities have made no provision, and by the aid of a staff of assistants such as was given to few of them even during the cholera epidemic. “ 4. The streets and courts, and the yards of infected houses, shoul