288 REPORT ON SURGERY. of the left side and the corresponding subclavian artery. There were numerous particles of lead disseminated through the spinous process and laminae of the first dorsal vertebra. The ball was lodged deeply in the right side of the posterior cervical region, lying on the side of the spinous process of the second dorsal vertebra, near its tip. It was enclosed in a well-defined capsule, which was intimately associated with the spinous process, above, by means of a conspicuous exostosis. The fluid in the spinal canal was gelatiniform and of a pinkish hue. The cord was congested, but on careful examination by Dr. S. Weir Mitchell was unaffected. The following are the author’s conclusions :—That it is the only case on record in which the course of a wound inducing reflex paralysis has been traced by dissection. That conspicuous change had taken place in and about the membranes of the cord, although there was no proof that the ball had entered the canal. That the position of the ball on the right side of the spine, without apparent fracture of the intervening bones, as well as the presence of particles of lead in the first dorsal spine, are curious and unique. That it does not follow that upon extraction of a simple conoidal ball we have removed from the body all the lead which entered it. Two woodcuts are given. (‘Arner. Journ. Med. Scien.,’ April, 1870, p. 411.) Remarkable course of a bulletin a case of wound of the abdomen.—The following case is recorded by Dr. Gihon, in the ‘American Journal of Medical Sciences,’ July, 1869:—A Chinaman, set. 30, was shot in the abdomen with a revolver. The aperture of entrance was half an inch below and two inches to the right of the umbilicus. There was no orifice of exit. A gurgling of mingled air and fluid could be felt in the left inguinal region, leading to the supposition that a hernia had been wounded in this situation. Great swelling occurred, and incisions were made. At the end of a fortnight Dr. M. had cut off several inches of sloughing intestine which protruded from the bottom of the scrotum. The man died the next day, and, at the post-mortem examination, on laying open the supposed track of the ball, no trace of it could be found. It had passed transversely across and slightly upwards to the left hypochondrium, near the extremities of the floating ribs, where it was reflected down in a curved direction towards the left groin, crossing (deeply) an incision that had been made. After sawing out the anterior wall of the pelvis, with the bladder and genitals intact, it was found that the bullet had crossed behind the symphysis to the right side, and was there lodged behind and below the horizontal ramus, where it was com- pletely concealed, and had imbedded itself without exciting the least irritation. A hernia of the left side had been wounded, as was supposed. Recovery with a bullet lodged within the skull.—In the Museum of the Leeds School of Medicine is a specimen (No. 1,33a), showing the front half of the cranium of a young woman, with a bullet lodged just below the inner angle of the right sphenoidal fissure. The bullet is firmly fixed in its place by a margin of bone, which, in some degree, imbeds it. It is close to the anterior clinoid process, which has been