487 1IASCHISH. Dr. 'Wood believes that in the alkaloid viridia and its salts the pro- fession has a remedy by means of which all the peculiar seda ive influence of veratrum viride can be obtained, without the horrible nausea and vomiting which always occasion so much discomfort and which in some instances endanger life. As far as can be judged from the few experiments made upon man, the commencing dose of sulpha e of viridia may be set down at the sixth of a grain, repeated every hour, and increased until the desired end has been reached. He has never observed any marked cumulative effect, i.e. any very marked increase of the symptoms by small doses of the alkaloid given every hour. The effect of a single moderate dose does not appear to be very long con- tinued, reaching, apparently, its maximum in about an houi. Further experience upon this point is, however, necessary; a study of the action of the medicine in disease alone can settle it. Dr. Wood believes the alkaloid to be pre-eminently safe as compared with other remedies of equal power, i.e. it would be much safer to reduce the pulse rapidly twenty beats per minute, and the force of the blood-stream correspond- ingly with it, than with any other remedy. If any case of poisoning from it should arise, the treatment should be such as would be suitable were veratrum viride itself the agent. Perfect quiet in the horizontal position ; brandy and ammonia freely ; opium, or perhaps better still, atropia cautiously ; and, on general prin- ciples, strychnia. Haschish.—Drs. B. W. Bichardson and Leonard Sedgwick* draw attention to the researches of Dr. Polli, of Milan, on this narcrotic— probably the nepenthes of Homer. Haschish is fitted for either a pill or a pipe, and is used either as a medicine or a luxury. Its active principle is always derived from the flowering extremities of Cannabis Inclica, and is not met with in hemps that are indigenous to temperate climates. The name cannahina, or hascliisliina, has been assigned to it. Haschish does not represent the pure resin; it is in candle-shaped pieces, three or four inches long and the eighth of an inch in diameter, of an almost black colour. These, when dried, have the characters of an extract. Impure haschish is easily soluble in water, and more soluble in ether, yielding a dark resinous substance, possessing all the properties of cannahina. In this form haschish is either smoked like opium or swallowed with honey or in coffee. Again, haschish is smoked as the simple flower, or an infusion of the seeds and flowers of the plant is taken as we take tea. Lastly, haschish is taken in the form of a spirituous liquid, which is made from the plant whilst in the fresh state. The different modes by which this substance is taken have given rise to a diversity of opinion as to its action on the body ; there cannot be a doubt, however, that the symptoms are those of narcotism and intoxi- cation, attended with peculiar psychological occurrences. Dr. Polli, having associated himself with two other experimentalists, found the effects of the extract, when swallowed, to be developed in the course of an hour and a half. The feelings were those of lucidity and elevation, alternating with forgetfulness and melancholy. The alternation, Dr. Polli says, from obscurity to lucidity is like the effect of a sea-wave; a lucid * ‘ Trans. St. Andrew’s Med. Grad. Assoc.,’ 1869, pp. 90 and 98.