REPOET ON SURGERY. 262 sequence of which, during erection, the penis is bent towards the side which has. been diseased, so that the genital function is greatly in- terfered with. The prognosis is essentially modified by the complica- tions of the disease, such as rigors, &c. The indications of treatment are: (i) To prevent gangrene when it is imminent; (2) To arrest its progress when it has only commenced ; (3) To extirpate it completely when it is fully developed. 1. Gangrene may generally be prevented by promoting the circulation through the blood-vessels and lymphatics. More or less deep scarifica- tion will relieve the swollen tissues, and aid in preventing the formation of phlyctense and of islets of sphacelus. In such cases there may be considerable haemorrhage; the surgeon should therefore introduce, between the lips of the wound, charpie, either simple or dipped in an aromatic wine. Blood letting is sometimes, but rarely, necessary. Cooling drinks are always indicated. In some cases, the consideration of the cause which has led to the gangrene will afford ground for the exercise of ingenuity on the part of the surgeon. Thus, in a case where constriction was produced by a ring, Bergeron removed a portion of the corona glandis which opposed its removal. The patient recovered in two months, after some sloughing of the prepuce and dorsum of the penis. 2. To prevent the spread of the disease when it has set in, the cautery may be used. In the case of a young man, set. 24, admitted on account of chancre of the glans with gangrene of the prepuce, M. Demarquay succeeded in arresting the progress of the disease by slight cauterisation. Recovery was complete in twelve days. Arsenic and its preparations formerly enjoyed a certain degree of reputation; but in modern times they have been replaced by the more simple remedies of washing, fomenting, and cleansiug the wound. Gallozzi has recommended the use of citric acid ; but that it does not always succeed is shown by a case in the practice of Gallozzi himself, where both it and the acid nitrate of mercury failed in limiting the spread of the gangrene, and the actual cautery had to be used to convert a gangrenous ulcer into a simple sore. 3. When the arrest of the disease has become impossible, extirpation of the sphacelated part is the only remedy. On this point, however, there is want of agreement among surgeons. Galen advised amputation of the gangrenous part, and cauterisation of the wound. According to Pare, amputation was necessary to save life in cases of gangrene of the penis. Bell and Patisuer made a distinction between cases of constitutional and of local origin, and arrived at the con- clusion that there were some cases where expectant treatment was inadmissible, and art must interfere promptly. Petrequin, of Lyons, has revived the old doctrine, and advises amputation before the forma- tion of the line of demarcation. Berard, Yidal, Begin, and S. Cooper advise that the separation of the gangrenous parts be waited for. M. Demarquay, after referring to these opinions, says that when the o-angrene is limited to the cutaneous investment of the penis or scrotum, operation is superfluous ; it is scarcely necessary to detach the mortified parts by means of scissors. Where the gangrene arises from some general cause, this cause may still remain in operation ; and the removal of the gangrenous portion by operation may be not only