443 THE CHILE : RENAL DISEASES. as a complication of intestinal catarrh. This complication, he says, is more frequent in very young than in older children, and gives to intes- tinal catarrh in infancy a peculiar character. He relates illustrative cases in detail. He points out incidentally the value of digitalis where there is diminished secretion of urine; in one case great benefit was derived from wrapping a cloth soaked in tincture of digitalis round the body. He remarks that the parenchymatous kidney-disease in little children does not always attack the cortical substance in its totality, hut sometimes only the greater or a smaller part. When nephritis complicates intestinal catarrh, the following symptoms are observed:— A child attacked either suddenly or slowly by diarrhoea, with green, coagulated, watery or grey, mucous, offensive evacuations, is collapsed in more or less complete sopor or coma, with half-shut eyes, the visible part of which is often covered with mucus, the cavities of the eyes are somewhat swollen with oedema; the eyes are deep sunk; the pupils react feebly to light; the naso-labial fold is strongly projected; the nose is cold, pointed; the fontanelles sunken in ; the neck is at times bent backwards, and the occiput is bored into the pillow; the veins of the head are more prominent than normal; at times the child cries and screams with a sharp voice, and emits motiveless piercing shrieks, and falls into convulsions ; the mouth is half open, the tongue dry ; vomit- ing ; the abdomen, at times stretched, is generally sunken in, soft; re- spiration is retarded and uneven; the skin cool, dry, tough, without elasticity, so that a fold pinched up remains without smoothing down ; the extremities feel cold, the legs are often stretched out and stiff, at times oedematous; the secretion of urine is scanty, it contains albumen in greater or less quantity, and exhibits in the sediment dark and fine nucleated and hyaline cylinders, sometimes a quantity of small round cells, scattered or gathered in heaps. In the more severe acute cases the child is restless, has fever, accelerated pulse, and hot skin ; it draws its legs up on its belly, and utters shrieks of pain, and exhibits such sensibility that it cannot bear the least touch; with all this the child is somnolent and indifferent. The cause of these symptoms is the rapi- dity with which the intestinal catarrh sets m. The fever and shrieking may be due to the intestinal pain ; and the last may be caused by the influence which the progress of the disease exerts upon the brain and nervous system, and in the same manner the skin-hyperaesthesia may be explained. But as to the somnolence and indifference, it is difficult to say whether it is occasioned by the prostration due to the rapid dis- charges, or to commencing nephritis, or perhaps to both together, bometimes somnolence and albumen in the urine come on together In reviewing the symptoms above described, it is difficult to distinguish which are due to the intestinal catarrh and which to the kidney com- plication ; also, it is doubtful whether the nervous symptoms are due to morbid conditions of the brain or of the kidney. Autopsy throws some light on the question. In the brain there is found anaemia or hyperaemia, or a normal amount of blood; oedema in the meninges either with hyperaemia or anaemia. In the kidney, on the other hand’ there is always a parenchymatous inflammatory process, in many cases very advanced. This leads to the conclusion that, since the brain