July to October, 1870.’ Pamphlet. 5ia REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. Will lairly answer the purpose of preventing nuisance and injury to health from the retention of excrement, at least until the perfection of arrangements for dealing with excrement shall be agreed upon. It cannot yet be affirmed of any one of the methods that it will develope into the only perfect system of the future. Town Dwellings for the Poor. Mr. John Liddle,* Medical Officer of Health for Whitechapel, in commenting upon the high rate of mortality (32 per 1000) prevalent in that district, makes some weighty observations upon the above subject. He says that such is the wretched condition of many of the tene- ments in some parts of London, that the mere whitewashing of walls and ceilings, improving the water-supply, providing better drainage, laying down good pavement in the fronts and backs of the houses, and diminishing the overcrowding of the rooms, are not sufficient to render a large class of the houses—now, as it were, jammed together and with- out proper ventilation—fit for habitation. The only thing that can be done to improve the sanitary and physical condition of the people who inhabit these dens is to pull them down, and so compel the inhabitants to move into more healthy localities. He then shows how the statutes for dealing with such houses have signally failed. The Nuisance Re- moval Act of 1855, imperfect as it is, is the only Act which is put in force to obtain an order from the magistrate to compel the owner to close a house which, in the judgment of the magistrate, upon proof being adduced, is unfit for habitation. But the order for compelling the owner to close a house is rarely applied for, mainly because of the almost insuperable difficulties in obtaining it and carrying it out. Mr. Liddle next discusses the several plans for improving the dwellings of the labouring classes that have been laid before the public—the formation of voluntary societies for the building of healthy and cheap dwellings; the erection of houses of a cheap yet healthy character, in the suburbs of London, accompanied by the facilities of workmen’s trains ; the ex- penditure of the public rates, as at Liverpool, in converting privies into waterclosets; the advance of an imperial loan to local authorities, to improve dwelling-houses, to sewer, drain, construct water-works, mar- kets, &c.; the compulsory sale of land to public companies, under Government supervision, having for their object the improvement of the dwellings of the poor. The plan which Mr. Liddle himself re- commends is that the Legislature should invest the Home Secretary or the Privy Council with power to appoint a certain number of skilled medical men as inspectors, who should be required to inspect tbe un- healthy localities in each district, and to determine what houses are unfit for habitation; and upon their report the Home Secretary or the Privy Council, as the case may be, shall take the necessary steps, either to cause the owners to put such houses in a state fit for habita- tion, or to cause them to be demolished. This scheme he would intro- duce gradually. * ‘ Report on the Sanitary Condition of the Whitechapel District for the Quarter