242 REPOET ON SURGERY. Lead of the lemur easily. (9) If the capsular orifice is too small to admit of easy reduction, it should be enlarged, (xo) The capsular orifice may be enlarged at will, and with impunity, by circumduction of the flexed thigh, (n) Recent dislocations can be best reduced by manipulation, and (12) the basis of this manipulation is flexion of the thigh. (13) This manipulation is efficient, because it relaxes the Y ligament, or because that ligament, when it remains tense, is a fixed point, around which the head of the bone revolves near the socket. (14) The further manipulation of the flexed thigh may be either traction or rotation. (13) The dorsal dislocation owes its inversion to the external branch of the Y ligament. (16) The so-called ischiatic dis- location owes nothing whatever of its character or its difficulty of reduction, by horizontal extension, to the ischiatic notch. (17) This dislocation is better named “ dorsal below the tendon ” (internal obturator), and is easily reduced by manipulation. (18) The flexion of the thyroid and downward dislocations is due to the Y ligament, which, in the first, also everts the limb, until the trochanter rests upon the pelvis. (19) In the pelvic dislocation the range of the bone upon the pubes is limited by this ligament, which, in the subspinous dislocation also, binds the neck of the femur to the pelvis. (20) In the dorsal dislocation with eversion, the outer branch of the Y ligament is ruptured. (21) In the anterior oblique dislocation the head of the bone is hooked over the entire ligament, the limb being then necessarily oblique, everted, and a little flexed. (22) In the supra-spinous luxa- tion the head of the femur is equally hooked over the y ligament, the external branch of which is broken. The limb may then remain ex- tended. (23) In old luxations, the period during which reduction is possible is determined by the extent of the obliteration of the socket, the strength of the neck of the femur, and the absence of osseous ex- 1 crescence. (24) Old luxations may possibly require the use of pulleys, in order, by traction, to avoid any danger which might result to the atrophied or degenerated neck of the bone from rotation. (25) Right- angled extension, the femur being flexed at right angle with the pelvis, is more advantageous than that which has usually been employed. (26) To make such extension most effective, a special apparatus is required. The figures given in the book cause the above details to be easily understood. Fracture of the neck of the femur.—Dr. Bigelow has also investigated the subject of fractures of the neck of the femur, and thus summarises his conclusions: (1) The terms intra- and extra-capsular, applied to these fractures, have little practical significance. (2) When a fracture near the head of the bone shows bony union, it is often impossible to say whether such a fracture was originally inside or outside of the capsular ligament. (3) A better division, therefore, for practical purposes is into, first, the impacted fracture of the neck into the trochanter; second, other fractures of the neck. (4) In this impacted fracture the limb is everted, because the posterior cervical wall is almost always impacted, the anterior very rarely, and in a less degree. (5) These conditions mainly result from the relative thickness of the two