10 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 176, which denotes the number of ounces that are lifted one inch at each contraction, and by dividing 176 by 12, we obtain the number of ounces that are lifted one foot, viz., 14-66. This equals 65-9 foot pounds in a minute, or 42-3 foot tons in twenty-four hours. Dr. Buchanan gives the following statement of his views: A is the calculated hsemastatical column. B is the observed „ „ C is the column equal in volume to the capacity of the left ventricle of the heart. Weight in oz.avoird. A=22-301 B = 22- C= 2- Volume, as height of column, in inches. 89-165797 88- 8- FORCE OF HEART. 1. Staticalequivalent = A = 22- oz. -f- 129-28 grains. 2. Dynamical equivalent = B x C, the weight of the one into the volume of the other. 2\ x 88-} = I?6 inch ounces = i4§ foot ounces. 3. Momentum of blood as emitted from heart = weight B X vol. C = 22 oz. moved over a space of 8 inches at each pulsation, or with a velocity of 10 inches per second. From some careful experiments made by O. Bayer,* * * § the first sound or systolic bruit of the heart appears to be due partly to tension of the auriculo-ventricular valves, and partly to the contraction of the muscle. Beale f finds in the septum of the auricles of the frog, ganglion-cells of oval or pyriform shape, that constantly give off a number of straight and spiral fibres, which, penetrating amongst the muscular fibres, pro- bably return, after forming loops, into the same ganglion-cell. C. Gussenbaur J describes muscular bundles in the mitral and tri- cuspid valves, extending to about the third part of their length, and proceeding from the musculature of the auricle. Dr. Garrod§ contributes a short paper on the relative duration of the component parts of the radial sphygmograph trace in health. An excellent description of the movements of the heart will be found in the Pullerian Lectures delivered at the Royal Institution in 1869, by Michael Poster, appearing in the ‘Rev. des Cours Scient.’ for 1870. In regard to the blood-vessels, T. A. Carter || maintains that a com- munication may be observed between them and the lymphatics in almost all organs amongst amphibia and mammals in the form of a very delicate plexus. He attributes his success in, as he believes, establish- ing this fact to the use of transparent injection of extraordinary pene- trating power, consisting of carmine precipitated in gelatine, from its ammoniacal solution by acetic acid. Prussian blue injection of a similar nature he finds to be a less reliable injecting material. He particularly * < Archiv. f. Heilkunde,’ 1870, p. 157. f ‘ Quart. Journ. of Microscop. Sci./ April, 1869. X ‘Wien Akad. Sitzungs,’ lvii, p. 1103. § ‘Proceed. Roy. Soc.’ xviii, p. 351. || ‘ Journal of Anatomy and Physiol.,’ iv, p. 97,