483 EUCALYPTUS GLOBULUS. Narcein.—Dr. Dronmiiller and also Dr. Kersch* * * § have found narcein to be useless in procuring sleep, and deny that it possesses any narcotic properties whatsoever. Aniline.—Prof. Winigradowt concludes from his own experiments on the action of aniline in the treatment of epilepsy and chorea that i. The continued use of sulphate of aniline, in progressively increasing doses, yields in many cases favorable results in the treatment of these diseases. 2. The chief action of aniline on the nervous system consists of a depressive influence on the spinal marrow. 3. Tactile sensibility is also diminished, though in a lesser degree. 4.. The depression above alluded to does not simultaneously abolish all kinds of sensation, but these gradually and successively cease. 3* Aniline likewise acts as a depressant of the peripheral nerves of sensation. 6. After removal of the cerebrum in animals aniline shows its action in violent and long- continued convulsions. 7. The depression of the spinal cord advances from above downwards. 8. Derangements of the power of co-ordination also manifest themselves. These were noted in frogs from which the cerebrum had not been removed. 9. We can remove the spasms ol strychnia poisoning by means of aniline. 10. Aniline decreases the frequency without lessening the force of the cardiac pulsations. Santonin.—Dr. W. Gr. Smithy of Dublin, has experimented with this substance, and confirms Bose’s observation as to visual derangements and a peculiar colour of the urine, being produced by a dose of four or five grains of santonin. He was enabled to detect the drug in the urine by its peculiar reactions, but the santonin existed certainly in an altered form in this secretion. The author’s experiments appear, however, to throw but little light on the cause of the visual derange- ments observed. Dr. Krauss,§ who has experimented with this drug, arrives at the following conclusions. (1) Santonin probably passes into the blood as sodic santonate; since it is sparingly soluble, a part remains unabsorbed, but it is not, as Bose asserts, found in the faeces in the form of crystals. (2) In small doses it acts as a narcotic poison, in large doses as a tetanic poison. (3) In children small doses produce symptoms cf poisoning. (4) The manner in which it acts upon intestinal worms—in particular Bose’s view that the greater part of the santonin remains unabsorbed, and so acts directly upon the parasites—has not been proved. (3) Sodic santonate passes into the blood unchanged, appears more speedily than santonin (in half an hour) in the urine, and is likewise excreted more readily than this substance. It acts as efficiently on the parasites as santonin, i.e. a quantity of santonin converted into its sodic salt pro- duces the same result as the same quantity of santonin itself, but with less fever and local effect; it is therefore to be preferred, since the danger of poisoning by it is less than with santonin. Eucalyptus globulus.—The leaves of this tree, a native of Australia, * ‘Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ 141, p. 15. f ‘Virchow und Hirsch’s Jahresber.,’ 1868, i, 342. I ‘ Dublin Quart. Journal,’ 1, p. 266. § ‘ Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ 147, p. 266.