221 thoracentesis. alteration in the width of the gap between the incisors. (‘ Australian Med. Jour.,’ Oct. 1870.) . , , , , Dr. Buchanan relates three cases m which he removed one lateral half of the tongue successfully. A median incision was made beneath the jaw, the latter was then sawn through, the halves separated, the tongue drawn out, and the affected half removed. He states that another case on which he operated in 1865 is still alive. ( Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Nov. 1870.) Subaqueous operations.—Prof. Grritti advocates the performance of certain operations under water (f Annali Universali di Medicina, Eeb.). An abstract is given in ‘ Med.-Chir. Rev.,’ July 1870. Displacement of superior maxilla.—Dr. Cheever writes on displace- ment of upper jaw” for removal of naso-pharyngeal polypi, &c. fol- lowing Langenbeck and others, he has lifted up the upper jaw, removed the tumour, and then replaced the jaw. He did this twice on the same patient successfully. In another case he lifted up both superior maxillae, but the patient died. (‘Boston City Hosp. Rep.,’ 1870, pp. 156-176; an illustration is given.) Thoracentesis.—Mr. Berkeley Hill exhibited to the Clinical Society (‘Trans.,’ vol. iii, p. 72) three patients on whom he had operated for thoracentesis. He thought that this operation had not received sufficient attention in the treatment of serous and purulent effu- sions. He insisted on the following points:—(1) The removal of fluid from the pleura need hardly ever cause much danger or suf- fering. (2) Whenever effusion is copious, it is prudent to withdraw it, to relieve dyspnoea and ward off a sudden fatal termination. (3) The usual mode of leaving chronic effusions to natural absorption may be advantageously replaced by tapping wffienever the condition of the patient is stationary and the pyrexia abated; the longer the fluid has existed the more urgent becomes the need for tapping, to enable the lung to expand before it has lost the power of doing so. (4) After tapping serous effusions the wound should always be closed, at least until repetition of the evacuations had showed that cure would not be so effected ; then injection of iodine or other irritants should be added to the tapping, but in these cases the admission of air should be scru- pulously avoided. (5) Where the fluid is purulent the admission (of air) is immaterial, provided a free and continuous exit is maintained for the pus, and this free drainage is a cardinal point in the cure. One case illustrated the benefit from continued drainage by a tube passed across the chest (on one side) through two openings; the second, the benefit which even cases of long-standing empyema, where the cavity will not contract, may obtain from frequent washing out with tepid w-ater or other injections. The third showed how readily a serous effu- sion may be absorbed even during the progress of rapid pulmonary phthisis, and in this case evacuation gave temporary relief to a consi- derable extent, though it did not cure the effusion. Dr. Douglas Powell showed (‘ Trans.,’ vol. iii, p. 240) a branched trocar connected with tubing so as to form a syphon, to which is attached, by means of ia T