90 report on practical medicine. and migratory cells, besides capsular cells. The yellow nodules showed at their periphery traces of fibrous stroma and normal cells, but towards the centre these disappeared and were replaced by round and fusiform cells, the latter like lymph corpuscles, and both in a state of fatty dege- neration, colloid masses and free oil-globules. The author thinks that these round lymphoid cells were congealed white blood-corpuscles, and that from them the fusiform ones were formed, while the normal cells, by a process of chronic inflammation, partly atrophied, partly under- went colloid and fatty degeneration. In commenting on the case, he observes that there was here loss of flesh, great depression, both mental and bodily, muscular weakness, sense of pain and oppressiou, especially at epigastrium, vomiting, constipation, and anaemia—all the clinical features and post-mortem conditions of Addison’s disease, without the melasma. The main changes agree with those generally found, e. q., Wilson, Pox, and Bruce, ‘ Path. Trans.,’ xvii, 401, except that the "latter only mention the fibrous tissue with nuclei and the caseous degeneration, without finding colloid masses or migratory cells. Numerous cases may be found in ‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xix, 406, &c.; Silver (‘Lancet, 1870, ii, 818), calcified supra-renal capsules in man set. 34: usual symptoms, sudden death, calcifications in lung apices; Legroux (‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1869, p. 196), ordinary case with- out autopsy; Clarke (‘Lancet,’ 1869, ii, 336), ordinary ease in which the supra-renal bodies were of immense size and yellow colour; and another probable case : no state of nerves mentioned; Greenhow (ib., 772) exhibited to the clinical society a woman, ret. 30, in whom, “ as in three recorded instances, an injury seems to be the starting-point of the disease;” Heslop (ib., 1870, i, 800), case in which, though the microscope does not seem to have been employed for their examination, ‘ a careful dissection failed to reveal any abnormality of the sympathetic nerves and their ganglia in the abdomen; ” Houghton (ib., 1870, ii, 119); Herman, ‘ Wien. Med. Presse,’ 1869, 3, “ Tuberculosis” of the Capsules; Bristowe, “Case of Addison’s Disease,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869, ii, 6; Gordon,‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1870, i, 281; Power, “Case without Bronzing,” ‘Lancet,’ 1869, ii, 801; and cf. ib., 1870, i, 255. Alcoholism. Herney (‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1870, 109) gives a report of a somewhat rare case, occurring in the practice of Gallard, of cerebro-spinal menin- gitis in chronic alcoholism. A baker, set. 27, with well-marked alcoholic antecedents, had for about six weeks presented slight intellectual de- rangement. On May 13, 1870, he was thoroughly ill, complained of pains in the head, and without any furious delirium, convulsions, trem- bling, or sweats, became comatose on the 23rd. Hemiplegia of the right'side followed almost immediately, became complete, and was suc- ceeded by paralysis of the left side next day. On the 26th the patient died, without recovering from the coma, or presenting any other symp- toms worth notice. At the autopsy, the lungs were found to contain small blackish nodules, or hard grains, on the average of the size of a hempseed, situated in the cellular tissue, which showed, under the microscope, a great number of fibrous filaments interlaced, and contain- ing a very large quantity of blood-cells. The heart was fatty, the sig-