247 FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. hinders its occurrence. 4. That a remarkable weakening of the quad- riceps muscle is a common result of these accidents, sometimes amount- ing to absolute atrophy. That this partial or complete paralysis cannot be explained merely by reference to long rest ot the limb, since the flexors do not share it. That it occurs in some cases in which the union is excellent. f That in almost all cases the quadriceps becomes slightly but permanently shortened by contraction, so that, however excellent the union may be, the knee cannot be bent without risk of stretching the uniting medium. That the chief danger after union consists in allowing the patient to bend his knee, and thus drag the lower fragment downwards, there being little or none in allowing him to use the quadriceps as an extensor. 6. That patients with absolute paralysis of the quadriceps are yet able to walk fairly and suffer no inconvenience whatever from contraction of its antagonists. 7. That bony union is probably an exceedingly rare event, whilst close fibrous union is easy of attainment; that it is quite impossible to distinguish between the two in the living patient, and, further, that all statements as to “bony union” are worthless, unless made on examination at least a year after the accident. That the atrophic weakening of the quad- riceps explains in many cases the patient’s lameness, and that its fre- quent occurrence tends to reduce the temptation to resort to certain heroic and dangerous methods of keeping the fragments in apposition. Compound fracture of the patella.—Mr. Poland brought a case before the notice of the Med.-Chir. Soc. of compound fracture of the patella, in which an attempt had been made to save the limb, but amputation had ultimately to be performed. He adduced the statistics of fifty-six recorded cases. He dwelt on the mode in which the injury was inflicted and the possibility of its occurrence without wound of the joint. The tendency of the discussion was against such a possibility. Cases should be treated first on conservative principles, and amputation resorted to if necessary. (‘ Med. Times and Gazette,’ and other papers, Peb. 5th, 1870.) Recovery after fracture of spine loith displacement.—Amongst the most interesting of all the specimens shown at the Leeds meeting of the Brit. Med. Association was one supplied by Mr. Teale, which had the advantage of a long life history. It was from a case in which perfect recovery followed a fracture of the spine with displacement. The patient, an adult man, had been under the care of the late Mr. Teale, in the infirmary, twelve years ago. His accident had been caused by a beam falling across his back, and when admitted all the usual signs of fracture, with displacement, were present. He was unable to move his legs, and for three weeks afterwards he required the use of the catheter to empty his bladder. Sensation was not at any time wholly lost. At the end of three weeks he became able to pass his urine, and could walk across the floor with the aid of a stick. Six weeks after the accident he could walk well, and was discharged re- covered. A projection of the spinous process of the first lumbar vertebra had been felt from the first, and was present when he left the