■REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 378 second period of suppuration comes, to which several complications may arise, as peritonitis. Pelvic hcematocele.—Dr. Rockwitz relates a case of retro-uterine he- matocele, and discusses the theory of Virchow and Schroder, which affirms that the source of the blood is the inflamed peritoneal surface. The case presents the following features:—The usual signs of shock and pain in abdomen set in during profuse menstruation on the 3rd August. On the 9th September the tumour reached above the navel; the rectum was so compressed as to greatly obstruct defecation. Incision was made in the most projecting part of the vagina. A considerable quantity of blood, not mixed with coagula or pus, flowed. On the 13th the dis- charge became thin and fetid, and was mixed with firm coagula and pus ; some hectic. The vagiua was washed out with warm water. The tumour was sensibly diminished in size. She quite recovered. The case is a good example of the value of opening the blood-tumour. Virchow states that the blood usually comes entirely or in part from the new-formed vessels on the peritonitic layers of the abdominal excavation. Schroder goes further, and says a tumour caused by a collection of blood which can be felt in the vagina can only arise when a cavity is pre-formed for it, that is, when Douglas’s sac is first closed above by a partial adhesive peritonitis. He contends, like Virchow, that inflamma- tion is the first event, and the lnematocele the second ; but he also says the blood-tumour is encapsuled, because the space was already converted into a bag by the adhesions. Rockwitz seems to favour this hypothesis; on the other hand, Dr. Berber, in a note in the same journal, contends that the idea of a pre- formed cavity is a pure hypothesis, and that the blood-collection often takes place very gradually, stillatim, the peritonitis being secondary, and designed to isolate the blood-tumour. (The general history of cases certainly supports the latter view.—R. B.) (‘Mon. f. deb.,’ Dec. 1869.) Dr. Aitkin relates a case of pelvic hsematocele, the more interesting because a post-mortem examination was made. The patient probably died in consequence of getting about too actively when she ought to have been quiet. On opening the abdomen a large quantity of grumous blood escaped. The intestines were matted together by recent lymph. I11 the left iliac and hypogastric regions, extending from behind the uterine cervix up nearly to the level of the umbilicus, was a large, tough, partially decolorized blood-clot, weighing thirty-six ounces. The recto-vaginal pouch was filled partly by the apex of this clot, but chiefly by soft puffy lymph, and at the bottom of the pouch was an incision. On the left side, almost completely imbedded in the blood-clot, and close to the line of the incision, was an ovarian tumour, about the size of a closed fist, containing a yellowish, purulent-looking fluid. The uterus was pushed forward, so that the fundus rested on the symphysis; In its interior a quantity of muco-pus was found. No pus or blood in the Fallopian tubes. The case was, therefore, one of intra-peritoneal luematocele, complicated with peritonitis. (‘Ed. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 1869.)