REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 466 from the root of an unknown plant. They find that the poison con- tains one or more alkaloids, since the aqueous decoction is largely pre- cipitated by iodide of potassium, and also by phospho-molybdic acid. The toxic effects of m’boundou bear some similarity to those of brucia, but the authors state that, under certain conditions, this poison does not hurt men. Tutu.—This formidable poison, the seed of the coriaria ruscifolia, has recently been examined by Mr. W. Skey.* He finds that its toxic qualities are due to the presence of a non-volatile oil, and not, as was formerly supposed, to an alkaloid. He adds that these results possess an interest beyond that immediately under notice, since it will offer another instance (castor oil is one) in which a non-nitrogenous oily principle is proved to affect the system like a neurotic poison, this class of poisons being almost always composed of alkaloids, or, at least, of nitrogenous substances. Agonia baric.—Dr. P. Peckoltf has examined this bark, that of the plumeria lancifolia tree, indigenous to the Brazils, which is largely used as a febrifuge in that country, and has extracted from it a crystalline, odourless, bitter substance, C10H14O6. It appears to be a glucoside, identical with arbutine, and to be poisonous. Croton oil.—Geuther and FrdhlichJ have reinvestigated this oil, and especially the volatile oils contained therein. The details are chiefly, however, of chemical interest. jVhebain.—Prof. Falk,§ of Marburg, has investigated the toxicolo- gical action of this opium principle and concludes—t. That the hydro- chlorate of thebain belongs to the more active poisons, and is quickly absorbed into the cellular tissues. Employed in sufficient quantity hy- podermically, it kills dogs, cats, guinea-pigs, and many other animals, in a short time. 2. In small quantities thebain is no longer fatal. 3. Injected directly into the blood, the hydrochlorate is more active than when employed subcutaneously. 4. Dogs and cats withstand the action of thebain less readily than guinea-pigs. The author describes three stages of the poisoning;—first one stage of restlessness and anxiety, passing into one of convulsions, and finally ending in para- lysis. The following notes refer to the detection of various poisons. Chloroform.—For the detection of chloroform in the blood and in other liquids Hager|| recommends the addition of dilute alcohol, with neutralization of the free acids and subsequent distillation. The dis- tillate must then be acted upon with nascent hydrogen, by which means chloroform yields hydrochloric acid, and this may be easily detected by the usual tests. Prof. A. W. Hofmann^]" has discovered a most delicate, test lor chloroform, based upon the fact that, when chloroform is mixed with * ‘ Chera. News,’ xxii, p. 314- f ‘Beilstein’s Zeitschr. f. Chem.,’ No. 12, 1870. t Ibid., No. 18, 1870. § ‘ Deut. Klin.,’ 1869, p. 362, &c.; 1870, p. 18, &c. jf ‘Virchow and Hirsch’s Jahresber.,’ 1868, i, p. 331- ‘ Neu. Rep. f. Pharm.,’ six, p. 689.