267 USE OP SULPHURIC ACID IN DISEASED BONE, Trephining of Tibia for acute Abscess.—The pain was intense. Iodide of potassium was given without good effect. The disease, threatened to set up suppurative inflammation in the knee-joint. M. Pean determined to trephine, though the affection had only lasted a few weeks.. He opened a cavity containing pus, and from that time the pain vanished, and the swelling of the knee-joint subsided. (Gazette Medicate de Paris.) Abscess in Bone.—A summary of various published opinions and cases on this subject, will be found in the Amer. Journ. Med. (Sciences (Oct. 1869), from the pen of Dr. Blackman. He shows that Sir B. Brodie was not the only surgeon, nor the first, to trephine for abscess. Caries treated by Caustic Potash.—Mr. Holmes showed specimens from a patient with disease of the bones of the ankle. Treatment by the local application of potassa cum calce had been tried. The patient died of pyaemia. (Path. Trans, xxi., p. 318.) Use of Sulphuric Acid in diseased Pone. — Mr. Pollock says that although most are familiar with the effects produced by soaking bone in the strong mineral acids, very little use has been made of them in practice. “ As a local application for the more speedy removal of dying bone, or for the more rapid separation of dead bone, or for the destruc- tion of the surface of a carious cavity, and the disintegration of all the diseased bone lying therein, sulphuric acid does not appear to have been so generally appreciated as it deserves, nor are its effects sufficiently known. It possesses the advantages of being a very simple and per- fectly safe application for the purposes mentioned ; is thoroughly anti- septic when used as a dressing for foul, diseased bone cavities; is comparatively painless when applied to carious bones ; and is seldom productive of any irritation in the surrounding soft structures.” The author’s attention was first called to its use in a case of extensive necrosis of the skull. The exposed bone was touched daily with a lotion of equal parts of strong sulphuric acid and water. This greatly accele- rated the separation of the whole of the diseased bone, and the patient perfectly recovered without any portion of necrosed bone being allowed to exfoliate by its own natural process. Four other cases in which great benefit resulted are mentioned. “ In the number of cases which have now come under my notice, both in St. G-eorge’s Hospital and in private practice, in no one instance have evil consequences been known to follow the application of sulphuric acid to diseased bone of any part of the body; nor has the treatment been found a painful one when the acid has been used ina diluted form (equal parts). If pain should follow the application it usually lasts but a short period ; for the acid in contact with the bone soon becomes neutralised, and ceases to occasion uneasiness. When diluted, the acid does not usually affect the soft tissues, even to the extent of uneasiness, nor does it produce the slightest subsequent irritation in them. The acid may be used pure as in some of the instances quoted. Its application had better then be confined to caries, or necrosis of the bones of the trunk when exposed,