REPORT ON MIDWIFERY^ ETC. 440 aro sent out with that imperfect ^degree of protection against smallpox which is afforded by only one or two vaccine vesicles, it must, I think, be obvious that by the adoption of such a practice we should be greatly weakening our defences against smallpox. The chance to each indivi- dual of a full protection would be very largely diminished, and the danger to the community of spreading smallpox greatly increased by the number of half-protected persons thrown upon it.” With regard to the preservability of animal vaccine lymph, Dr. Seaton found that the heifer lymph, a3 compared with ordinary lymph, is pecu- liarly apt to spoil on keeping, and that the tube-preserved lymph cannot be relied on. Dr. G-rancini (‘Annali TTniv. di Med.,’ 1871) gives a report on the animal vaccination practised in Milan in 1870. He concludes that the results were generally good, in no respect inferior to vaccination from humanised lymph. It has, moreover, the advantage of not giving rise to the propagation of human morbid germs. In Italy the practice has found more favour than elsewhere, and seems to be still extending. Prof. J. Steiner and Dr. N. Neureutter (‘ Prag.Vjhrschr.,’ 1870) have made the diseases of the urinary organs in childhood the subject of ex- tensive and close study, a. Congenital diseases.—In two cases there was absence of one kidney, in both cases it was the left that was missing. b. Acquired diseases.—In one case, diminution of size of one kidney was observed as the result of pressure of an enormously enlarged amyloid degenerated liver. Hypercemia.—This is more frequent than anaemia. Arterial and venous hypersemia was most frequently observed in lung and heart diseases. And this condition of the kidney is still more marked when, in addition to the lung and heart affection, there is thoracic deformity, as rickety. After death from scarlatina, measles, smallpox, cholera, and typhus, hyperasmia of the kidneys is almost always seen. In tetanus, chorea, and convulsions, hypersemia is found. Beckmann’s proposition that children suffering from diarrhoea and atrophy have, in consequence of the diminution of the energy of the heart, kidney hypersemia, with the not rare exceptions of children who are very much prostrated, when kidneys like other organs are ansemic. Anaemia of the kidneys is the consequence either of a disturbance of cir- culation, or is part of general anaemia, or result of a purely local paren- chymatous disease of the kidney. Ucchymosis is a not uncommon form of haemorrhage in children. In no case was the effusion so copious that it could be called renal apoplexy. It is rare in the absence of dis- ease of the parenchyma. It was most intense in cases of purpura and variola hasmorrhagica. In one case of the latter disease marked hsematuria was observed during life. The same conditions were found in some cases of scarlatina, croupous pneumonia, scrofulosis, tyrosis, and tuberculosis of the lymphatic glands. The causes of the haemorrhage in these cases must be sought partly in disturbance of circulation, partly in alteration of the blood and in the texture of the blood-vessels. In one case there was intercurrent hsematuria, with tubercular meningitis, in a girl six years old, lasting some days, but disappearing when the symptoms of brain-compression had reached