REPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 13S catheter with sufficiently large openings would he enough ; the external end of the tube is placed in a glass containing water, and the cleansing ot the cavity left to the respiratory movements of the thorax. He describes the necessary variation in this method when Schuh’s ti’ocar has been used, &c. He describes also Kussmaul’s “ sonde a double courant,” and publishes two cases in which it was employed with success, and 'a third in which lie considers incision would have been preferable to punc- ture. The occurrence of arterial bleeding in one of the cases leads him to call attention to the sometimes abnormal course of the internal mammary artery. Potain (‘ Graz, des Hop.,’ 1869, 356) employs an apparatus somewhat of the same kind, except that, instead of the “sonde a double courant,” he introduces two tubes of caoutchouc into the pleural cavity and connects their external ends with two vessels. Blachez (ib., 43) gives several cases in which his method of capillary thoracentesis was practised, and Blois (ib., 70), in the course of a dis- cussion on the priority of using this method, gives two thus treated, one in 1864. The latter writer allows the inconvenience of the capillary trocar in the slow emptying of the fluid. De Latour (‘L’Union Med.,’ vii, 336) records a case of acute right- sided pleurisy in a man set. 40, with very rapid exudation, in which he obtained remission of all the symptoms and decrease of the exudation after three hours by covering the whole side with a layer of collodion (!). Ziemssen (“Die Punction des Hydrothorax,” ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ v, 437) publishes his remarks on hydrothorax made before the Society of Naturalists at Iuuspruck. He adds full particulars of a case he then mentioned, of a man, suffering from Bright’s disease, who was punctured sixteen times in three and a half months. Before the first operation the patient was semi-comatose, had cold extremities, and a pulse scarcely to be felt. In the course of the sixteen tappings 11,945 litres, containing 300 grammes albumen, were drawn off, and there was distinct relief after each evacuation. Heddseus (“ Diagnostische Irrthiimer,” £ Berl. klin. ‘W’och.,’ 1869, 771) gives very fully the case and autopsy of a strong man, who was attacked with left-sided pneumothorax iu consequence of a cold, followed by pleuritic exudation, which was twice emptied, with improve- ment of the health, after proper exit for the pus was obtained. A few months later the pus again became fetid, the pyrexia increased, and the patient became rapidly emaciated and died. He believes that life might have been saved by an earlier puncture, and that in cases in winch exudation recurs a short time after operation the latter should not be repeated, but a fistula at once established, so that the lung may recover itself as soon as possible. Forster (‘ Deut. Arch.,’ v, 545) publishes the case of a healthy woman of twenty-eight, who, while quietly conversing, was suddenly seized with violent pain in the right side, and fainted. In spite of this, she walked about 900 paces and up four flights of stairs to her room. On ex- amination there was only moderate dyspnoea, right-sided pneumo- thorax, and slight fever. She complained of palpitation ; the heart was pushed over to the left. A fortnight later there was slighter dulness