326 REPORT ON SURGERY. Plastic operation on the urethra.—Sir H. Thompson exhibited to the Clinical Society a patient on whom an operation for the loss of a large portion of the urethra had been successfully performed. The man had been the subject of large extravasation of urine. The resulting slough- ing destroyed the skin of the penis and a full inch of the urethra just anterior to the scrotum. A grooved staff having been introduced into the bladder, the urethra was laid open through the peringeum, aud a catheter inserted and retained. The margin of the wound was then broadly pared, a large flap dissected from the side of the scrotum, and placed in good apposition upon the raw surfaces, attaching it with silk sutures, and covering in completely the urethral wound. All the urine flowed by the catheter, and in a few days the edges of the wound had united except at one spot. At the end of five weeks the urine was allowed to pass along its proper channel, and the perineal wound soon healed. A No. 8 catheter was passed occasionally. A¥hen exhibited there remained only a small orifice, which might be closed by galvanic cautery or another plastic operation. Stress was laid on the import- ance of allowing an exit for the urine and on the breadth of surface laid bare (Mr. Heath). (‘Lancet,’ Dec. 17, 1870.) Use of chloroform in the cure of cleft palate.—Mr. Thomas Smith records further cases in which he has operated on young patients for cleft palate with the aid of chloroform. (‘Lancet,’ Aug. 14, 1869.) Mr. Lawson Tait writes on the treatment of cleft palate in the ‘ Med.- Chir. Lev.,’ July, 1870, 281. Figures of modified instruments are given. Tie operates in infancy with the patients under chloroform, and without dividing any muscles, as he thinks this leads to atrophy of the flaps, &c. Mr. Marsh records the case of a child sixteen months old, on whom he operated successfully for the cure of a fissure of the whole of the soft palate and one fifth of the hard. He adopted Mr. T. Smith’s plan. (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ iii, 15.) Cancer of the lip.—In the removal of cancerous growths affecting the angle of the mouth, Mr. Annandale thinks the Y-shaped incision in- adequate, and recommends that an incision should first be carried from the upper edge of the angle of the affected side into the cheek in a direction very slightly upwards, so as to allow a flap including the dis- ease to be turned over and carefully examined. The extent and connec- tions of the disease being thus accurately determined, the requisite amount of tissue can be removed either by a Y-shaped or square incision. If the disease has spread to the gums or periosteum of the jaw, these structures can be thoroughly examined, and the affected portion of the jaw or its alveolar margin, including the gums and teeth, taken away 'by means of the same incision. This plan allows (1) the extent of the disease to be more accurately determined, and (2) it forms a part of any of the plastic operations employed for the restoration of the lower lip. In cases of cancerous tumours a flap of healthy skin, and the tumour may be turned down first and carefully examined before the growth is cut off. (‘ Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 1870.)