210 REPORT ON SURGERY. the ankle-joint is in itself so severe an operation that it ought not to be undertaken in cases of compound fractures and dislocatfons unless there he some special indication. The most fitting mode of treating such accidents consists in reduction and removal of splinters, and there are sufficient facts revealed here and there to show that patients will recover under such treatment. 2. Secondary resection of the ankle is a less severe proceeding than secondary amputation ; it should therefore be employed whenever there is reason to expect that, in consequence of complications, the attempts to save the joint will fail. That a useful limb is left after the operation appears to be sufficiently proved. In the second category nine cases are noted as having occurred in the practice of European military surgeons, the operation having been (with one exception) secondary, with one death only from gangrene. On the other hand, eight excisions of the tibio-tarsal joint are referred to as having been performed by the American surgeons in the late war, in which the results were less successful. Spillman says that more experience is required before a judgment can be pronounced on the value of the operation in cases of gunshot wound. The third category comprehends 73 cases where the tibio-tarsal joint was excised on account of disease. Among these, the operation was successful in 50; in 2 the result was doubtful; in 1 the disease con- tinued in spite of the operation; 12 died ; and secondary amputation was necessary in 8 cases, of which 2 died, 3 were successful, and the result of the other 3 is not indicated. Dividing the cases into those of excision of the outer ankle and of the inner ankle, it is found that the end of the fibula was removed in 22 cases, in one of which secondary amputation was afterwards necessary, while 4 other patients died, more immediately from the operation. Spillman’s conclusion is, that resection of the lower end of the fibula is attended with a low rate of mortality, gives excellent results with regard to function, and may be performed at any age. Of cases where the lower end of the tibia was removed, there are 51. In 12 the disease was of traumatic origin, and tbe result of operations was successful in 11. In 37 cases where the disease was constitutional the results were—recoveries, 22; persistence of the disease two years after the operation, 1 ; deaths, 7; secondary amputations, 7, of which 2 were fatal, 2 successful, and the result of the other 3 is not stated. Thus, excision of the lower end of the tibia gives 15 failures in 37 operations. Having commented on these results, Spillman sums up as follows :—1. Partial or total resection of the tibio- tarsal joint on account of caries, necrosis, or prolonged suppuration, is an excellent operation when the conditions above mentioned have been produced by a wound of the joint. 2. Resection in cases of disease of constitutional origin (pathological affections, properly so called) is very hazardous, not only in regard to the mortality which follows it, but also to tbe liability to a recurrence of disease. 3. An exception must be made in favour of partial resection of the fibula, which is generally not followed by relapse. Removal of the astragalus, half of the os calcis, three fourths of the scaphoid, and part of tibia. — Mr. Mulvany, in the ‘ Lancet,’