DISEASES OE OVARIES. 381 ceeding menstrual period. Out of 67 cases, the result was favorable iu ^3; in 11 unknown, in 4 interrupted by subsequent allections of the abdomen. In 11 cases pregnancy followed. In no case did the opera- tion cause any considerable disturbance. (£ Wien. Med. Wochenschr.,’ 1869.) The Vagina. Vaginismus.—Neftel observed (‘ Centralbl. f. die Med. Wissensch.,’ 1868), in three young women, severe vaginismus, the result of using a strong lead cosmetic. When cured of the lead-paralysis the vaginismus yielded. Ovarian Diseases are illustrated in the following: Dr. Schetelig illustrates by three cases some points in the diagnosis of abdominal tumours. The first was an enormous hydronephrosis; adhesions were found extending into the pelvis; extirpation by gastro- tomy; death. On dissection no trace of left kidney could be found. Discussing Spencer Wells’ dicta upon the diagnosis of kidney cysts from ovarian, Schetelig shows that none could distinguish this particular one incision from ovarian. He thinks even exploratory would not have been of much use, since the entire distinction must be founded upon the character of the cyst-contents, and no urine-constituents may be found, whilst paralbumen and cholesterin, which have been considered charac- teristic of ovarian cysts, may be present. The fact is that in such a cyst the natural function of a kidney is perverted. In the second case there was unilocular ovarian cyst united with a hsematoma of the fundus uteri and of the tubes, and extensive adhe- sions with the small intestines ; operation ; death. The third case was a cystomyoma of the right broad ligament with chronic peritonitis. (‘Archiv f. Gynakol.,’ 1870.) Dr. 0. Spiegelberg discusses the causes of perforation of ovarian cysts into the peritoneal cavity. He relates three cases :—1. Left pa- pillary cystoma with ascites and perforation; exploratory incision; ovariotomy ; death. This patient had been tapped several times. The fluid drawn contained paralbumen; clots did not form spontaneously ; cholesterin-crystals. Hence escape of contents of cysts into abdo- minal cavity was diagnosed. Ovariotomy was proceeded with. Dissec- tion showed recent peritonitis, purulent exudation, old intestinal adhesions. 2. Glandular ovarian cystoma with numerous ruptures and escape of gelatinous masses into the peritoneal cavity; diagnostic tap- ping made; death through recent purulent peritonitis. The tumour was periorated in about thirty places, the apertures varying from the size of a bean to that of a small plate ; from all the openings yellow red masses protruded. The chief cyst-wall was very thin. Even the secondary cysts showed perforations. In other respects it was an ordi- nary glandular cystoma. 3. Glandular cystoma ; luemorrhagic breaking down 01 the anterior wall; escape into the peritoneal cavity : death by peritonitis. J lhe causes of perforation, apart from burstiug from violence, are fre-