455 POISONING. roach it is indifferent whether the poison he introduced directly into the stomach or first reaches that organ after absorption (3) -Lhese glandular changes are distinctly visible after the lapse of only three days, whilst their commencement may be detected nineteen hours alter the ingestion of the poison into the stomach. (4) Patty degeneration of the glandular structures is clearly visible alter the lapse of eight days. (5) If the poison be introduced directly into the stomach, hyperaemia of the gastric mucous membrane may be produced, owing to the absorption of the phosphorus into the blood. This condition may be, perhaps, considered to be a state of congestive hyperaemia, and to be dependent upon glandular degeneration. IT. Kohler,* in reviewing memoirs by Schultzen, Riess, and 15. Sorbets, thus sums up the differential points of diagnosis between poisoning by phosphorus and acute atrophy of the liver. In poisoning by phosphorus the symptoms are at first those of acute gastritis, and a marked interval ensues between the supervention of these and the appearance of icterus; but in acute atrophy of the liver this interval is wanting, and from the beginning there are, on the contrary, only gradually increasing signs of general malaise, slight gastric catarrh, and jaundice. In the former, the severe symptoms are developed more rapidly, and run their course more quickly than in the less rapid acute atrophy. Jaundice, much prostration, great general suffering, and excitation of the cardiac action are invariably set up two days before death from poisoning by phos- phorus ; whilst in acute atrophy of the liver scarcely more than gastric catarrh and slight jaundice can be detected. The cerebral symptoms are more marked in acute atrophy than in phosphorus poisoning. In the former they are never absent, and persist in a typical manner for one or two days before death, whilst they are not manifested at all in a large proportion of cases of phosphorus poisoning; nevertheless, they sometimes appear in such cases shortly before death, but in a less striking degree than in cases of acute atrophy. In phosphorus poison- ing the liver is found to be enlarged, of a dull appearance, doughy, uniformly yellow, and with the acini well marked; whilst in acute atrophy that organ is diminished in size and collapsed, greasy on the surface, leathery, of a dirty yellow colour, and with traces only of the obliterated acini. In the former disease the hepatic cells are either filled with oil globules, or entirely replaced by these ; in the latter disease the cells are, on the contrary, filled with a fine granular detritus, and their structure is replaced by newly-formed connective tissue. Too much stress is usually placed on the abundance of fat in the hepatic cells, especially in animals that have been poisoned by phosphorus, and on the appearance of bile pigment in the blood. In phosphorismus, accumulations of bile are caused more especially by compression of the walls of the ducts by the hepatic cells; but in acute atrophy through exudation into the periphery of the lobules, and the formation of new connective tissue. These accumulations of bile are of no diagnostic value. In those cases where no stagnation is apparent, the jaundice must be explained by supposing changes to have taken place in the blood. Seeing that small quantities of the biliary constituents pass # ‘ Sclimidt’s Jahrb.,’ 147, p. 148.