413 INJURIES DURING LABOUR. by the midwife inserting her finger inside the cervix. There was very little haemorrhage, and the woman recovered. f Tour cases of ruptured uterus are related by Dr. Barnes ( bt. lhomas s Hospital Beports,’ 1870.) In two of these the foetus and secundmes were removed by abdominal section, lie especially dwells upon the evidence drawn from two cases that the previous death ot the foetus is a main factor in the production of rupture. A dead foetus, having lost all resiliency, tends to be compressed into a ball, and becomes unfavor- able for expulsion, thus inducing conditions of dystocia similar to that attending malposition. Dr. Grenser (‘Mon. f. Geburtsk.,’ 1869) relates two cases of rupture of the uterus in which cephalotripsy was resorted to after turning. In one, the patient had undergone two hard labours. The true conjugate was a"8'"; head presented. After forty-eight hours’ labour severe pain was felt in the belly, and the head was no longer felt above the brim. A rent 3" long was felt in the posterior wall of the uterus. The child was brought down by turning, and the cephalotriptor applied. The placenta which had escaped into the abdominal cavity was removed. Haemorrhage great. Patient died two days afterwards with severe peritonitis. The uterine walls near junction of body and cervix were extremely thin. The rent ran longitudinally. Second case.—A rachitic woman had previously been delivered by perforation and forceps. The conjugate measured 2"6'". Labour very slow ; head movable on brim. In the midst of considerable pain the uterine contractions ceased, and the head was higher above the brim. A rent was felt to the right pos- teriorly, running from the body of the uterus through its neck to the vagina. Turning, extraction, and cephalotripsy were resorted to. He- morrhage great; peritonitis set in immediately, and destroyed the patient on the second day. Here, also, on section, a remarkable thinning of the womb at the site of laceration was found. Dr. P. Muller, of Wurzburg, relates (‘Scanzoni’s Beitrage,’ 1870) three cases of rupture of the anterior margin of the vulva, between the clitoris and the meatus urinarius. All were primiparse, the pre- sentation cranial. The importance of the observations lies in the severe haemorrhage, in one case fatal, which is liable to attend this in- jury, the source of which may be overlooked. In all the cases there was perfect contraction of the uterus, and no injury elsewhere. Hence the indication, under similar circumstances, to inspect the part by the eye. (The liability to laceration at this part was observed by the reporter many years ago, and his observation was cited by Dr. Tyler Smith in that author’s work on Obstetrics.—R. B.) Inversion of the uterus.—I. W. S. Coward, New Zealand, relates a case (‘Obstetr. Trans.,’ 1870). Primipara; head presented, labour spontaneous. Whilst making gentle traction upon the cord, in a few minutes, with one or two violent expulsive efforts, the placenta was ex- pelled. The uterus was inverted, placenta attached. The placenta was removed first, then the uterus was re-inverted. The inversion partiy returned, and was again reduced. Recovery. Dr. Madge relates (op. cit.) a case. A young woman in second labour, delivered of a very large child, the liquor ainnii being excessive