408 ItEPOliT ON MrDWITEUY, ETC. Dystocia from the Skeleton. Dilatalility of the pelvis is illustrated by the following case of a non- pregnant subject: l)r. Awater exhibited to the Berlin Obstetrical Society the pelvis of a girl, cet. 18, who had died of typhus. The sacro-iliac synchondroses could be separated 2": Professor Martin thought the change was of an inflammatory character. (‘Monatssch. f. Geburtsk.,’ 1869). Dr. Winkler, of Jena, describes a remarkable pelvis ivliich can he dilated or contracted under force. A girl, set. 16A, was sent to him to ascertain her fitness for marriage. When a year old she had suffered a pelvic fracture by being run over. She was well built, could carry heavy weights, climb bills and work with ordinary facility. The dimensions of the pelvis were about normal. It was made out that the ascending ramus and horizontal ramus of the pelvic bone of the right side were completely wanting in bony matter, being replaced by a ligamentous substance. This substituted material could be pressed In or out by the fingers. AVhen the legs were stretched apart, it became tense; and on bringing the legs together, it became flaccid. It was further ascer- tained that the right sacro-iliac joint admitted of movement. (‘ Arch. f. Gynakol.,’ 1870.) Dr. Lange describes a peculiar case of lcyphotic transversely contracted pelvis. The subject was thirty-four years old, of weak organisation, living in great poverty, learned to walk in her tenth year. The pubic arch was so narrow that it barely admitted the radial edge of the fore- finger. Caesarian section was deemed necessary. A living child was extracted. Perimetritis and peritonitis soon followed,and she died twelve hours after operation. The pelvis measured at the inlet, the conjugate 4'4o", the transverse 3’90"; and at the outlet the conjugate scarcely admitted of measurement, the transverse gave less than rjo". The minute investigation of the case led Lange to the following conclusion: that the pelvis is a kyphotic transversely-contracted one, rachitic and one-sided, with complete anchylosis and fusion of the lumbar vertebrae with the sacrum at one part, with complete anchylosis of the articu- lating processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and of the last two thoracic vertebrae, with complete left-sided ileo-sacral anchylosis, with complete absence of the promontory, with carious destruction of the last sacral vertebra, with vaulting-over of the inlet by the lumbar portion of the spinal column, as in spondylolisthesis, and several osteophytes in the form of spines. (‘Arch. f. Gyniik.,’ 1870.) Dr. Chantreuil describes (‘ Gaz. Hebd.,’ 1870) two cases of kyphotic pelvis. The inlet was chiefly affected, the conjugate being increased. Labour with transversely-contracted pelvis.—Dr. Kleinwachter re- lates a case of labour with transversely contracted pelvis in the Prague hospital. The subject, set. 27, primipara, at term was in labour on the 18th December. The waters escaped on the 20th. The forceps bad been tried before admission. The woman was well built, the bones, especially tbe pelvic, very thick. The fibres seemed symmetrical. The trochanters were distant from each other io'jo". The width of the