471 HANGING AND STRANGULATION. ments of the size of the red blood-corpuscles of various animals as seen under such high powers. The measurements of the human blood- corpuscles are given, however, with great precision. Hanging and Strangulation. Dr. Bremme* concludes in the following terms an. article entitled “ Has the demonstration of microscopic extravasation m the supposed mark of strangulation on the body of a person supposed to have been hanged or strangled any diagnostic value m the determination of the question whether the ligature was applied before or alter death . (i) No extravasation occurs in the subcutaneous tissue beneath the site of ligature on the hanged or strangled body, provided death is in- stantaneous and the body is released from the cord immediately alter death. (2) Extravasation occurs if, the death being instantaneous, the neck remains long in the ligature. (3) Extravasation is met with when death has not been instantaneous, whether the ligature have been removed early or been allowed to remain for a long time after death. (4) It is impossible to distinguish between the intra-vitam and the post-mortem mechanical extravasations thus produced. (5) As a con- sequence, the demonstration of microscopic extravasation beneath the mark of the ligature in those supposed to have been hanged or strangled has no diagnostic value in determining the question, was death the result of strangulation, or was the ligature applied to the corpse alter death ? This paper is illustrated by a beautiful plate, exhibiting the microscopic appearances observed. Prof. Tardieuf contributes an excellent memoir on this subject, entitled “Etude Medico-legale sur la Pendaison,” which has also ap- peared in a separate form. The paper is well illustrated by several woodcuts, showing the position of the body and ligature in several curious cases of hanging. He concludes his observations on the dia- gnostic signs of hanging during life in the following words:—“In striving, as we have done, to appreciate correctly the diagnostic signs of hanging during life, we perceive that some signs demonstrate the fact of suspen- sion ; these are, the state of the neck, the mark of the ligature, the appearance of the face, the turgescence and colouration of the sexual organs and lower extremities ; whilst others demonstrate the persistence of life at the moment when they were produced—these are superficial or deep-seated ecchymoses, extravasations and infiltrations of blood into the cellular tissue or into the muscles themselves in the cervical region, the presence of sanguinolent froth in the air-passages, and general engorgment of the lungs. The expert can only prove with certainty that the body of the individual under investigation had been suspended during life, and the case was really one of death from hanging, when these two classes of signs are in exact accordance. There is no one unique, exclusive, and exact sign, but rather the assemblage of signs, and their correlation carefully established, which enables us to conclude that suspension took place during life.” * ‘ Horn’s Vierteljahrsschr.,’ xiii, p. 247. f ‘ Ann. d’Hyg.,’ xxxiii, p. 78.