105 antiseptic treatment. metallic suture, over which, the suppleness of the thread gives it a great superiority.” After stitching a wound up more strong watery solution should he injected. In four other cases of compound dislocation of the ankle recovery with a useful foot has followed the use of the antiseptic treatment. In the present case the dressings were changed entirely on the day after the accident. In doing this the greatest care is requisite. The difficulty and uncertainty formerly attendant on the exclusion of decomposing matters during subsequent dressings has been overcome “ by a most simple means—the employment of a syringe, the nozzle of which is inserted beneath the margin of the lac plaster, and, as this is raised, a stream of weak watery solution of carbolic is made to play upon the wound till a piece of calico, soaked in the same lotion, has been placed upon it, by an assistant, as a temporary security, until the plaster is re-applied. Any examination of the wound that may be required is made with freedom through the transparent solution thrown over it by the syringe, the wound being never left for an instant with- out an antiseptic guard.” In all dressings subsequent to the first one, a layer of material, designed to protect it from the irritation of the antiseptic, must be used. In the first one this does not matter, because it is necessary to have the antiseptic as strong as possible, and there is no danger of setting up suppuration by the antiseptic in twenty-four hours. The protective must itself be antiseptic. The basis of the one in use is the common oil silk, coated with a soluble film (or else the acid runs off it) of a mixture of one part of dextrine, two parts of powdered starch, and sixteen parts of cold watery solution of carbolic acid (i to 20). Oiled silk, thus prepared, becomes uniformly moistened when dipped in a solution of the acid, so that all risk of communicating putrefactive mischief along with it is avoided; and if it is used in two layers it opposes a pretty effective barrier to carbolic acid, as is suffi- ciently illustrated by the absence of irritation in the present case. “ I believe it to be best in all cases to change everything on the day following the injury, because the effusion from the wound is then of a bloody character, and though the lac plaster certainly sheds the dis- charge admirably, yet it is possible that a layer of clot may be lying beneath it which might interfere with its antiseptic operation.” After- wards the intervals must be regulated by the quantity of discharge. Any parts in the vicinity of a contused wound which have been damaged must be treated as separate wounds ; they must not be allowed to slough and putrefy. The skin must be carefully examined for damaged patches. A case is mentioned in which this was not done. Some very interesting remarks are made on suppuration, granulation, &c. With regard to the injury to the ankle, it only remains to state that six weeks after the accident, the fracture of the internal malleolus had united firmly, the foot was in good position, while the patient could move the joint through a considerable angle. Pour scalp wounds he suffered from— three of which involved exposure and injury to the bone—healed com- pletely without a drop of pus. One of the sutures behaved just like a metallic one. A compound fracture of the elbow, which also existed, healed without any suppuration. Five weeks after the injury the splint was removed; the broken olecranon being firmly united and the