REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 462 and live minutes after convulsions had been induced, and before there could have been exhaustion of the cord, two thirds of* a grain of sul- phate of strychnia was injected beneath the skin. In two minutes the symptoms of strychnine poisoning were developed, and proved fatal in five minutes. This experiment shows that the immunity from the eftects of the alkaloid conferred by carbolic acid proceeds from the latter ol the two admissible causes. Carbolic acicl.—Numerous cases of poisoning by this disinfectant have been published in the medical journals. They present, however, no new features of much interest. Cynoglossine.—Dr. Buchheim * assigns this name to a new alkaloid, extracted from plants belonging to the natural order Boraginece. He says that, having found it stated that the extract of cynoglossum acts as a poison, in a manner similar to curara, he obtained from the cyno- glossum plant a body which, although not quite pure, exhibited proper- ties which—as, for instance, alkaline reaction, precipitability by tannin, by phospho-molybdic acid, and by mercuric chloride—proved it to be akin to an organic alkaloid. This substance was found to exert a spe- cific action on various animals. Physostigma.—Dr. Thomas R. Fraserf proposes atropia as an anti- dote for physostigma. After instancing the numerous apparently well-authenticated examples that have already been recorded on the antagonism between various of the physiological actions of different active substances or remedies, as between the actions of morphia and atropia, and of physostigma and atropia on the iris and on the minute blood-vessels ; of morphia and quina on the minute blood-vessels ; and of physostigma and atropia, hydrocyanic acid and atropia, and musca- rina (the active principle of Agaricus muscarius) on the vagi nerves ; he proceeds to consider the antagonism between the lethal actions of active substances, and remarks that he cannot instance any certainly established example of physiological antagonism in this latter compre- hensive form. He then demonstrates that, in certain animals (rabbits and dogs) at least, the lethal action of physostigma may be prevented in a remarkable and perfect manner by the physiological action of atropia. The minimum fatal dose of extract of physostigma was ascer- tained by experiment for each kind of animal; this dose, or one con- siderably greater, was administered after, along with, or previous to, a certain dose of sulphate of atropia, and if death did not result, the same animal was killed, some days subsequently, by a dose of the extract of physostigma, equal to or less than that given in the combination. Two series of experiments—in one series sulphate of atropia having been administered before a lethal dose of extract of physostigma, in the other the two substances having been injected simultaneously or nearly so— showed, in the most rigid manner, that atropia, by its action on the living economy, counteracts or prevents the lethal action of physostigma. The next step in this inquiry, and that by which the practical value of the above results can be most thoroughly tested, was to administer the antidote after a fatal dose of the poison. These experiments showed * ‘Neu Jahrb. f. Pharm.,’ Sept., 1870. f ‘The Practitioner,’ ii, p. 65.