227 AURAL SURGERY. was found to bo thin and compact; the sutures were indistinct, and the parietal especially was closed. The dura mater was distended, and its veins were full of blood; the inner membranes contained a moderate quantity. The cerebral convolutions were much flattened, the sulci were effaced ; the brain was anaemic and moist, and of doughy con- sistence. The ventricles contained each about a drachm of clear serum. At a point, about three fourths of an inch in length, opposite the lower dorsal vertebrae, the spinal cord was softened to the consistence of pap ; in other parts the cord was healthy. No trace of tubercle could be found in any part of the body. The second case was that of a lad aet. 16, who had had for three years a bronchocele, which had grown rapidly, and extended to both sides of the neck. It caused dyspnoea, and, as it was probable that it would soon cause death by suffocation, Billroth extirpated the portion on the left side. He had, in many cases before, removed bronchocele in the same way (by ligature and excision) with success. In the course of the night following the operation the patient was seized with violent general convulsions, and, after being comatose about half an hour, died in three hours, sixteen hours after the operation. On making a necropsy the left pupil was found rather narrower thau the right. The skull was thick and firm. The right half of the frontal suture was almost obliterated externally, and was in- distinct on the inner surface. The dura mater was tightly stretched ; the inner membranes contained a moderate amount of blood. The cerebral convolutions were much flattened out. The brain was moderately rich in blood, and was soft and moist; its ventricles, the lining membrane of which was somewhat thickened, contained more than an ounce of flocculent serum. No large vessels or nerves in the neck had been injured in the operation. The trachea was much narrowed. There was emphysema of the lungs and remains of ante- cedent pericarditis and peritonitis. The heart was healthy. The results of increased intracranial pressure have, says Billroth, been investigated in late years by von Bruno, Donders, Leyden, Fischer, Niemeyer, and others; and a consideration of the anatomical relations of such pressure may lead to an explanation of the origin and course of the process which proved fatal in these two cases. v Accumulation of mucus within the tympanum.—Mr. Hinton con- siders that _ an excessive secretion from the mucous lining of the tympanum is not at all infrequent. Such accumulations present several varieties. The simplest form is the slight and transient hyper- secretion which is so frequent an accompaniment of an ordinary cold, and which may have, as its only indication, a somewhat moist or gurgling sound on the inflation of the ear, lasting for a few days and entirely disappearing. Less frequent is a further stage of the same condition, in which, after more or less pain and sensation of fulness in the ear, hearing becomes impaired, and, on examination, the membrana tympani may be seen ol a dull, semitranslucent, greyish hue, sometimes slightly bulging and traversed by red dilated vessels, the largest of which oescend from the roof of the meatus and enclose the malleus, while inflation of the tympanum, either by the patient or on Politzer’s