HEP OUT ON STTUGERY. OKO (vO/s/ nucleus. It was found on inquiry that this man’s case had formerly been recorded by Dr. Wilkes, in the ‘ Path. Trans.,’ xiii, p. 143, as one ol retention of urine, caused by the presence of a dermoid cyst between the bladder and the rectum. The cyst was tapped, and gave exit to a considerable quantity of fluid fatty matter, in which were portions of hair. This was eight years before lithotomy was performed. Foreign bodies in the bladder.—Mr. Lund narrates a very interesting case in which a lad passed a piece of india-rubber tubing into his bladder. There was some doubt about the fact at first, but on endo- scopic examination it became probable that the tube could be seen. No “ click ” could be produced on sounding. Lithotomy was performed and the tube extracted. Attention is also drawn to a peculiar sound sometimes heard on examining the female bladder with a catheter, simulating the presence of a calculus, but depending on succession of fluid. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ July 31, 1869.) Calculus in the female.—Mr. Henry Smith operated on a woman, aged 36, who suffered from stone in the bladder. An incision was prolonged backwards from behind the anterior third of the urethra, about an inch and a quarter, so as to divide the posterior part of the urethra and the neck of the bladder. The stone was then felt to fill almost the entire bladder. A lithotrite and forceps having failed, sequestrum forceps were used, and then a scoop, by which the stone, weighing five and a half ounces, was extracted. She died three days later. The mucous membrane of the bladder was injured, and there was peritonitis, but no injury to the peritoneum. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Nov. 13, 1869.) Solvent treatment of uric acid calculus.—A detailed account by the Bev. W. Y. Harcourt of experiments on himself will be found in the ‘Med. Times and Gazette,’ Oct. 23, 1869. Multiple calculi in the urethra.—Mr. Annandale publishes a case in which he extracted six calculi from the urethra, which had become dilated by the efforts of the patient to pass urine while the urethra was blocked. One of the six, however, was pushed into the bladder and crushed with a lithotrite. The patient was a gentleman aged 26. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ May 1, 1869.) Origin and treatment of stone in children.—In a paper on the “ Origin and Treatment of Stone in Boys,” Mr. Thomas Smith suggests that the term urinary diathesis might be replaced by that of a dyspepsia; mean- ing a derangement of the process of the digestion and the separation of the products of the disordered process at the kidneys. On this hypothesis we can account for the fact that the prevailing urinary diatheses of children are the lithatic and the phosphatic rather than the oxalic; since the lithic and phosphoric acids are normal constituents of the urine, and for their production in excessive quantities no such extreme derangements of the digestive or excretory functions is neces-