391. PREGNANCY.—TITE PLACENTA. fall of the diaphragm. When the spoon-speculum is introduced, pressing back the posterior wall of the vagina, the rise and fall of the anterior wall, synchronously with the corresponding movements of the diaphragm, are clearly seen. Under ordinary circumstances, the vulva being narrow and the vaginal walls in contact, no air enters ; but if the walls be kept apart, as by a tumour, or pessary, great relaxation, lacera- tion of the perinfeum, or other agency, air will enter, especially after labour. The influence of air is seen in the foulness of secretions, the decomposition of plugs, &c. (‘Monatsschr. f. Geburtsk.,’ June, 1869.) On the relations between morbid conditions and processes in the sexual organs of women to mental disturbance is the title of an elaborate memoir by Di\ C. E. Louis Mayer, presented to the Berlin Obstetrical Society. It is too long for analysis in this place. It is barely possible to indicate the questions discussed. These are—the influence of sexual excitations on the mind in childhood, of menstruation, of the climac- terium upon the mind ; the relations of individual diseases and processes to psychoses, such as inflammations, faults of development, displacements, hysteria, somnambulism ; the different forms of mental dei’angement in their relation to diseased conditions and antecedents in the sexual organs, hysterical insanity, erotic character of psychoses associated with sexual disorders; states of psychical depression, hypochondria, melan- cholia ; states of psychical excitation, exaltation, mania, dementia. He has analysed 145 cases of mental disorder associated with morbid states of the sexual organs, excluding labour and puerpery. The memoir is enriched by numerous clinical illustrations, and especially deserves to be read by those physicians, special alienists and others, who regard nervous symptoms in females as universally dependent upon primary or essen- tial disorder of the nervous system, ignoring the intimate relations of the nervous system to the generative system, and who, neglecting this study, fail to appreciate the frequency with which the nervous system is attacked through the generative system. (‘ Yerhandl. des Gesellsch. f. Geburtsk.,’ 1869.) II.—Pregnancy. The Placenta—Physiology and Pathology. Ercolani contends that the maternal portion of the placenta of the vertebral mammifera, including the human species, is always glandular. It is a glandular organ of new formation, destined to secrete a humour serving for the nutrition of the foetus. The placenta is formed of two distinct parts—the foetal, which is vascular and absorbent; the mater- nal, which is glandular and secreting. He says the human placenta belongs to the same order as that of the ape. Dr. James Young exhibited to the Obstetrical Society of Edinburgh an umbilical cord, which measured only ten inches in length. (* Edin. Med. Journ.,’ March, 1870.) “ On the unequal Development of the Umbilical Arteries.” By Dr. Haussmann. (‘Monatsschr. f. Geburtsk.,’ 1869.) Dr. Langhans describes the relation of the chorion-villi to the