13 G REPORT OX PRACTICAL MEDICINE. as to show the upper surface of the liver, to which it was strongly ad- herent. . At the anterior and superior part of the right lobe of the liver was a thick layer of pus—an abscess between the liver and diaphragm, which communicated freely with the pleural cavity, and was hounded by peritoneal adhesions, except in front, where it ran round the anterior border of the liver to join another abscess at the inferior surface of that orgau. This secoud abscess was circumscribed by the liver, the duodenum and transverse colon, and peritoneal adhesions. There was no perforation of the intestine, but the walls of the duodenum were thickened, slightly indurated, and very friable, those of the colon thinned and tearing on the least traction. The peritoneum, with the exception of the circumscribed peritonitis, was healthy. Bergeret (‘Lyon. Med.,’ vi, 228) gives the case of a man, set. 26 who, during convalescence from typhoid fever, was attacked with pleurisy of the right side, with considerable efFusiou. Paracentesis was performed with a trocar attached to a bladder. In spite of all care to prevent it, bubbles of air entered the chest, leaving it again on expiration. The patient did well, and the author holds that the effect of the entrance of a little air has been much exaggerated. Peter (‘ Graz, des Plop.,’ 1869, 13) enlarges upon the diagnostic, pro- gnostic, and therapeutic value in pleurisy of the so-called curve of Damoiseau (i.e. the line which, under certain conditions, may be made out on the posterior part of the thorax). He believes that by it a fibrinous may be distinguished from a serous exudation, and that its continued existence is a good sign, inasmuch as a fibrinous effusion is more easily reabsorbed than a serous one. Dupre (‘ Bull, de l’Acad. de Med.,’ xxxiv, 20 5) gives an account of seventy six cases of so-called sero-plastic and rheumatic exudation, in which he performed thoracentesis ; eight only died. He proposes three principal divisions of pleurisy— 1, essentially inflammatory effusion, generally recovering without operation ; 2, secondary accumulations (hydrothorax), in which the operation is useless; 3,primary idiopathic effusion, to which he gives the above names. These last commence sometimes with rigors and thoracic pain, sometimes they directly follow articular pains or sciatica. The thoracic pain is superficial, extensive, wandering,—“rheumatism of the pectoral muscles;” the effusion takes place without pain, distress, cough, dyspnoea, or fever. These pleurisies were described by Pidoux, among other writers, as “latent.’’ Medical treatment is useless, and the trocar should be resorted to as promptly as possible. Duroziez (ib., 371) gives a case of sudden and considerable expectora- tion, simulating the evacuation of an empyema, in a man, set. 32. Of ten cases of paracentesis thoracis under Peter (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869, ii, 473), cure was complete in seven ; in one case, com- plicated with scarlatina and tubercular disease, there was amelioration ; and in two cases in which death occurred, the operation prolonged life and afforded great relief, the fatal issue being caused by the primary disease; the ages of the patients, except one (a drayman, set. 47, who got well), are not given. A paper on pleuritic effusion (ib., 1870, ii, 65) contains three case