REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. i Ibid., 1870, 15, 16; ‘Chem. News,5 xxiii, p. 46. 4G0 recognised by a few simple tests. The chief red dyes in use are— 1. Madder, a mordant ot alumina, or of tin and alumina, being used. Ibis dye is unaffected by dilute hydrochloric acid and by ammonia. 2. Cochineal, mordanted with tin. It is turned of a violet colour by a solution of ammonia, and communicates a colour to the solution. 3. Murexide, a mordant of mercury or of lead being employed. It is rapidly bleached even by citric acid. 4. Safflower, which is completely decolourised by a short ebullition with a dilute solution of soap. 3. Aniline red or magenta. This, when prepared by Medlock’s process, generally contains arsenic. The colour is rapidly destroyed by contact with ammonia, but is restored by the addition of an acid, or even by simply allowing the ammonia to evaporate. The arsenic, if present, may be detected by Marsh’s process. 6. Coralline, which is but slightly affected by boiling water, and not at all by cold water, but is readily extracted by boiling alcohol. Coralline is unaffected, or merely rendered of a brighter colour by alkalies, and it is precipitated by acids. Considerable doubt has, however, been thrown on these researches, and some observers think that coralline, when pure, is inocuous. Laburnum.—Some interesting cases of poisoning by this tree, observed by Hair, are communicated by Dr. B. W. Richardson.* Husemanf has recently examined cytisine, the active principle of the laburnum. He finds that it exists in all parts of the tree, except the wood. Cytisine is a crystallisable alkaloid, and has the formula C20H27N3O. A dose of from four and a half to eight grains will, when subcutaneously applied, kill a large dog within thirty minutes. Cocculus inclicus.—W. GaussJ describes the botanical and pharma- cognostic characters of this substance, the use made of the berries, and their physiological action. After quoting the older analyses of Pelletier, Couerbe, and others, he treats at length on the constituents of the berries, viz.: Menisperniine C18H]21M02, a solid crystalline body, which bears some resemblance to mercuric cyanide. It is a tasteless substance, insoluble in water, but soluble in alcohol and ether, and fuses at 120°; it is not, so far as experiments go, a substance which exerts any marked action upon animals. Paraspermine crystallises, fuses at 250°, and may be sublimed in sealed tubes. It is also insoluble in water, but is readily dissolved by ether and by absolute alcohol. Menispermic acid, an, as yet, ill-defined body which, according to Boullay, exists in cocculus in- dicus, but which neither M. Pelletier nor yet M. Casaseca has found in that seed. Picrotoxine, discovered in 1812 by Boullay. The formula of this substance is, according to Mill, Pelletier, and Couerbe, C12H706, while M. Oppermann assigns to it the formula C12H604. The pre- paration of this substance from the berries is described by the author at great length; it may be briefly stated to consist in exhausting the previously pulverised berries with boiling alcohol, removal of the latter by distillation, taking up the residue with boiling water, addition of a solution of acetate of lead to the aqueous extract, removal of the excess * ‘ Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev.,5 xliv, p. 543. f ‘ Beilstein’s Zeitschr. f. Chein.,5 1869, 22.