214 REPORT ON SURGERY. Mr. "Wagstaffe describes a specimen of bony uuion after a successful excision of the knee-joint. (‘ Path. Trans.,’ xx, 264.) Di\ Penieres has collected in the ‘ Graz, des Hopitaux,’ No. 123,1869, the statistics of nearly 600 cases of excision of the kuee. Mr. Sydney Jones relates three cases with the result of useful limbs, in adults. He gives illustrations. (‘ St. Thomas’s Hospital Reports,’ i87°,P- 435-). Dr. Gillespie operated successfully on a miner, set. 22, for chronic disease. The patient returned to his work for seven months, and then wrenched the limb, causing it to swell and become painful. After pro- longed rest he again improved, and was then employed as a railway gate-keeper. Eighteen months later, he again came under his care. There was great mobility of the knee and atrophy of the limb, neces- sitating amputation. The limb had been decidedly useful to him for three years and four months. Dr. Gillespie remarks on the prospect of usefulness when the patient left the hospital, and the failure of bony anchylosis under the severe strain of a miner’s occupation, which is particularly unfavorable for a man with a leg incapable of flexion. The knee, on examination, showed no trace of bony union. The ends of the femur were rounded off, and connected by fibrous tissue to a cup-shaped cavity in the head of the tibia. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 14, 1869) Excision of the os calcis.—Mr. Canton excised the os calcis of a girl, set. 16, for caries, with success. He made an incision over the calcaneo- cuboid joint, extending midway into the sole of the foot, then longitu- dinally backwards over the posterior surface of the os calcis, as high as the tendo Achillis. The flap was then removed from the outer side, the tendo Achillis divided, and the dissection continued close to the bone on the inner side. The ligaments were then divided, and the bone removed. The disease was confined to the os calcis. The notes are given too early to state the ultimate result. (‘ Lancet,’ Jan. 30, 1869.) Mr. Holmes exhibited a specimen of disease of the os calcis, from a a young woman, after excision. He had previously tried gouging. The disease was limited to the one bone. (‘ Path. Trans.,’ xxi, p. 304.) A case, under the care of Mr. Tibbits, is noted in the ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Sept, if 1869. The patient, a little girl, had had the whole os calcis removed. She could walk on the foot, and there was very little deformity. The other os calcis was diseased also, had been gouged, and was not quite sound at date of note. Subperiosteal excision of the os calcis.—Mr. Annandale removed the os calcis of a girl, leaving the periosteum, and the wound healed in ten days under antiseptic treatment. Reproduction of bone occurred, so as to render the foot useful in progression. (‘ Edin. Med. Journal,’ June, 1869, p. 1128.) It is reported in the ‘ Lancet,’ Eeb. 19, 1870, that M. Giraldes, on performing excision of the os calcis in a boy, remarked that the whole of the bone may be removed and yet the patient subsequently recover