REPORT ON SURGERY. 324 others with a slight fall, varying from 20 to •6°* Three died with a fall ot about 20, hut not for a week or longer. The depression in cases of operations which recovered amounted to tenths of a degree only at the conclusion of the operation. In the fatal ones the lowest fall was 8’5° (ovariotomy). In seven others the fall varied from 40 to 20. Pour cases of hernia which recovered after operation had a normal temperature. Two others, which had a normal temperature before the operation and a fall of 30 to 40 afterwards, died. In one case, suffering from (hernia) collapse, there was a fall of r8°, and death followed. In another fatal case, on admission there was an elevation of tempera- ture of 1-6° (peritonitis). Of the cases of injury to the head, one recovered after a fall of 4-9°; two fatal (after a long time) showed a normal temperature ; one, fatal in nine hours, had a fall of n° ; one, fatal in seven hours, had a fall of 4‘i° ; one, fatal in thirteen hours, had a fall of 3’2°. All the cases of fractured spine died, but only one within forty-eight hours ; in this case there was a fall of i&6°. In four others there was a fall of five and of two degrees, and in one none at all. Of the cases of injury to the abdominal viscera, two recovered after a fall of 30 to 40. One died in forty-eight hours, with a fall of 5*4°; one in six hours, with, a fall of 3*4°; one died in five days, fall 2'4°; one in twenty-four hours, fall of r8°; one in six hours, fall of i"j°. A case of ovariotomy died in twelve hours, the fall after operation being 8-4°. One case of herniotomy died in seventeen hours, after a fall of 4,o°; and another in two days, after a fall of 3 ‘4°. In a case of haemorrhage from a cancer of the testis, in a boy five years of age, the temperature fell 2-2°, and he died in three days. (‘St. Thomas’s Hosp. Reports,’ 1870, p. 465.) Cure of snake-bites.—Prof. Halford, of Melbourne, has been very successful in the cure of snake-bites by the injection of ammonia into the veins. In one case a man had become comatose, and was vomiting, the pulse was feeble, and the pupils sluggish. After some time, when he appeared really dying, Dr. Halford injected some ammonia with a fine syringe into the radial vein. The effects were marvellous. In a second case about twelve minims of strong liquor ammoniae were in- jected into the saphena vein. A third case was equally successful. The liquor ammoniae fortior, Dr. Halford says, should be diluted before injection with two or three times its quantity of water, and of this mixture from twenty to thirty minims should be injected into one of the larger veins. The syringe should be carefully introduced. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 30, 1869.) Bupture of the quadriceps extensor tendon.—Dr. Buchanan records three cases which occurred within twelve months. In two the tendons on both sides gave way at the same time. (‘ Lancet,’ Oct. 29, 1870.) Statistics of the results of operations—The, results of 175 operations, * There is another case, in the table of amputations, in which a man, ret. 61, had a fall of 2-6° and recovered after amputation for “ smashed leg.”—(Ed.)