352 REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. Horner* communicated to the Heidelberg Congress the good results that he had obtained, in severe cases of irido-cyclitis after extraction, by thrusting a narrow double-edged knife through the closed pupil and false membranes deeply towards the posterior segment of the globe. The vitreous, pressing forward towards the cornea, tended to maintain the new pupillary opening ; the external wound was small, and the bleeding insignificant. In some instances the operation had been followed by success altogether unhoped for. Lebrunf relates a case that is probably unique. A man, aged 39, suffered from some slight irritation of the eye, for which a practitioner ordered the application of a leech. It was applied io the cornea, at its lower and outer margin, and there filled itself. Displacement of the pupil followed, as if from iridesis, iritis and hypopyon were succeeded by chronic inflammation and phthisis bulbi, which at last gave rise to tbreatenings of sympathetic ophthalmia of the other eye, and demanded the extirpation of that which had been leeched. The patient made a good recovery; but the vision of the second eye was somewhat impaired. Dr. Laqueur J lays stress upon interruption of vision as an early symptom of sympathetic ophthalmia. It has long been known to physiologists that, if one eye be steadily fixed upon an object, the object after a while becomes dim and disappears, probably as a result of fatigue of the nerve elements. When one eye is lost, and the other is predisposed to disease, this “ interruption of vision ” is sometimes so easily produced as to be made a matter of complaint by the patient. Dr. Laqueur § publishes the results of the clinical observation of 268 cases of glaucoma. About twelve of these cases occurred in the practice of Dr. Schmitz, at Cologne, the remainder in that of Dr. Liebreicb, at Paris. He considers this number sufficient to serve as a basis for conclusions about the comparative frequency of different forms, as well as about the predisposing influences of sex, age, and refraction. With regard to sex, his cases (which include all the glau- comatous affections, that is, not only typical glaucoma, but all maladies attended by increase of intra-ocular tension and excavation of the optic nerve) were furnished by 156 women and 112 men. These numbers agree with those given by other observers of large experience; and they show a proportion of about 58-2 per cent, of women, to 41-8 per cent, of men ; or, in other words, that glaucomatous women are to men nearly as 3 to 2. The influence of age is very marked; for although typical glaucoma is occasionally met with even in children, yet it is extremely rare before the age of forty, and the forms seen piioi to that period of life are chiefly consecutive to other affections. Between forty and fifty the disease becomes comparatively frequent. The following gives the ages of 252 patients of both sexes * * Klinische Monatsblatter,’ 1869.' + ‘ Annales d’Oculist.,5 64, p. 136- , „ . T , „ J ‘ Sur les Affections Sympatliiques de l’CEil,’ par Dr. Louis Laqueur; Inesc, 1869. . § ‘ Annales d’Qnulistique,5 1869,1, p. 33- Paris,