49 TE M PE RAT Q11E AND FEVER. iu<r with Liebermeister, Wunderlich, Ac., that the observation ought not to be considered complete till the mercury has remained stationary for five minutes, he gives the following as the time required for the three positions :— . Rectum from 3 to 6 minutes. Mouth (under tongue) „ 9 to 11 „ Axilla „ 11 to 24 „ (extreme cases excepted). The variation, of course, depends on the fact that the two latter positions have to attain, so to speak, the fixity of temperature which the first naturally has, that of a closed cavity: this may, to some extent, be brought about by the closure of either mouth or axilla for some tune, —ten to fifteen minutes before the introduction ot the thermometer, le ball of which has been already warmed, so as not to abstract heat. [His remarks on heating the thermometer to a point beyond the tem- perature of the mouth, refer of course to a non-registering instrument.J Rinlayson (‘ Glasgow Med. Journ.,’ 1869, p. 186, On the normal temperature of children ”) gives fifteen tables ol temperatures observed in as many children, and concludes that 1. The daily range of temperature is greater in the healthy child than that recorded in healthy adults, his observations giving a mean range of between 2° and 30 R. 2. There is invariably a fall of temperature in the evening, amounting to from i° to 30. 3. The most striking fall usually occurs between seven and nine p.m. 4. The minimum temperature seems usually to be reached at or before two a.m. 5. The temperature usually begins to rise between two and four a.m., while the child is still sleeping, and before food has been taken. 6. Rluctuations between nine a.m. and five p.m. are usually trifling. 7. There seems to be no very definite, or at least obvious, relation between the frequency of the pulse and respiration, and the amount of normal temperature. It would be impossible to abstract with any justice a paper by Senator (“ Beitrage zur Lehre von der Eigenwarme und dem Rieber,” ‘ Virch. Archiv,’ xlv, 351) on temperature in health and disease, especially on that of fever, containing the results of experiments on artificially heated animals, and tables of temperature. In the same journal (xlvi, 391) will be found remarks by Breuer on this paper, together with Senator’s answer (ib., 307). The latter contributes a further paper (ib., 1, 334) on the variations of temperature caused by cooling the surface of the body by free admission of air, sponging, &c., with com- parisons of the temperature indicated by the thermometer in the axilla and rectum, and experiments, with full tables of observations, on a healthy adult. Raich (ib., xlix, 437) publishes minute details, with curves of the temperature observed, of experiments on dogs and rabbits poisoned with phosphorus (five cases), strychnia, morphia, nicotine, &c. Lewisky of Kasan (ib., xlvii, 332) records experiments on rabbits as to the effect of sulphate of quinine on the temperature and circulation : with tables of the former, and spliygmographic curves. 4