299 FATTY HERNIA. be pervious. In the first case, that of a female, Prof. Turner notes there was a covering of the femoral sheath, which had a thin, trans- parent, shining appearance, which might at first sight be mistaken for the sac of a hernia, A funnel-shaped, peritoneal sac was found in the middle of the fatty mass, which was a hypertrophy of.the subperi- toneal fat. In this same body was a fatty mass, protruding through the right external ring ; it was covered by a fibrous investment, and its size that of an almond. It was in the position of a direct hernia. The second was also that of a woman. A fatty mass in the left crural region contained a sac with omentum in the centre. A smaller one on the right side showed an empty sac. The third was similar, on one side only; so also in the fourth case. The fifth was in a male; a direct fatty hernia existed on both sides. In the sixth, a male, a large right scrotal hernia existed, and also a fatty, direct, on the same side, containing a sac, not communicating with the peritoneum, but it had done so probably at one time. “ The kind of hernia under consideration con- sists, then, of a mass of fat, more or less lobulated, continuous with the subperitoneal fat, and forming a complete, closely investing capsule around a true, peritoneal sac, which may or may not be shut off from the general peritoneal cavity.” Masses of subperitoneal fat occasionally protrude without having any peritoneum in their interior. Patty herniag may exist singly, or there may be several, and they may coexist with ordinary varieties. They may be reducible, but are most fre- quently irreducible, especially when they have existed for some time. They may become strangulated, and give rise to usual symptoms, if the sac in the interior remains sufficiently open, and communicates with the peritoneal cavity, so as to allow of the passage of abdominal contents. The development of fat, in some of these cases, would appear to take place in connection with a true hernial sac, which has become shut off from the general peritoneal cavity, or which is undergoing a spontaneous contraction. In other cases Mr. Quain considered the protrusion of the fatty mass to be the first condition, a process or tube of peritoneum being gradually drawn down into it. There are, however, three pathological facts important to the practical surgeon— (i) that the fatty mass may contain a sac in its interior, which communi- cates with the general peritoneal cavity, and permits portions of gut or omentum, or both, to pass down into it; (2) the fatty mass may be invested by a covering, such as the femoral sheath, noted by Turner, in Case 1, and the author, in 7 and 8, or some fascia which simulates a true hernial sac, and might mislead the surgeon in operations; (3) several may exist in the same patient, and showing varieties. They may give rise to no symptoms at all, or to the ordinary symptoms of strangulation. Prof. Werner considers that in some cases the fat may act as a plug advantageously. The author then relates two cases he met with in practice. In the first, he cut down on what he considered to be a sac, exposed omentum, and proceeded to cut it off, having first ligatured it, and then found it to be fat, enclosing the real sac, a portion of which he had sliced off. In the second case the author exposed omentum, apparently, and then found a sac and intestine strangulated. (£Edin. Med. Journ.,’ March, 1870.;