321 general emphysema. duced, which kept up a free opening in the sole, and at the same time stimulated the sinus by the irritation set up by its presence. M. Sedillot writes on the subject (* Contributions a Chirurgie’). Influence of the wecithcv over the results of surgical operations. Dr. A. Hemson writes on this subject in the ‘ Penn. Hosp. Rep., ii, p. if 1870. An abstract is given in the January number of the ‘ Med.-Chir. Rev.,’ 1871. General emphysema.—In the ‘ Biennial Retrospect,’ 1867-8, p. 332> an abstract of Dr. Mapother’s case of general emphysema from rupture of the lung. Mr. Jessop records a case (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ September 25, 1869) produced by violent screaming. A child, eight years old, suffering from an affection of the ankle, began to scream violently one morning, and continued to do so, without intermission, the whole of the day and the next night. Early the following morning a little puffiness was noticed on the left side of the neck, and it rapidly increased. In four hours the head, face, neck, chest, and abdomen had become enormously dis- tended. Air could be felt in the cellular tissue all over the trunk and down the arms as far as the wrists; none could be detected in the legs and thighs, or, indeed, below the groin on either side. The skin was punctured in many places, and brandy was administered. He con- tinued to scream, and gradually became weaker, but without any difficulty of breathing. He died eight hours after the first appearance of the emphysema. At the post-mortem examination, on opening the chest and abdomen, a large quantity of most offensive air escaped, and the muscles of the abdomen alone were observed to be completely blackened. The abdominal contents appeared natural. The mediastina were found to contain air, but, although they were somewhat distended, Mr. Jessop could not satisfy himself that the lungs had been greatly impeded in consequence, and this would account for the length of time (considering the extent and degree of emphysema) during which he lived. No extravasated air could be detected beneath the pulmonary pleurae, except at the roots of the lungs. On a close inspection of the outer surface of the right lung a very thin film of recent lymph was observed, and, at irregular intervals, there were very small, immovable elevations, the largest of which was about the size of a pin’s head. On cutting into these they were found to be small irregular cavities, con- taining air and a little red-coloured serum. Eight of them were counted on the front, external surface of the lower lobe of the right lung, and none could be found anywhere else. On microscopic examination, the lung tissue, which showed no signs of degeneration, was found torn at these.places. Mr. Jessop calls attention—1. To the cause of rupture; the violent and long-continued compression to which the lung was sub- jected in the production of a series of loud shrill notes. The glottis would, necessarily, be nearly closed, thus offering a great impediment to the exit of air, whilst the expiratory efforts were the greatest of which the boy was. capable. 2. The age, eight years. Dr. Mapother states that, “ of thirty-eight recorded cases, thirty-four were in children under 21