187 ERYTHEMA. preceded and attended by fever; that it observes closely one type attacking by preference the young, producing a symmetrical rash, and occurring but once in life. He remarks, further, that “ abortive ex- anthems”—cases in which (this ? and) the exanthemata are so mild as to produce no rash—’are very common, instancing more especially cases of constitutional syphilis; and, lastly, that attention should be directed to the following questions: _ ... 1. Does erythema nodosum occur twice in the same individual ? 2. Are there any instances of apparent contagion, or of its simulta- neous occurrence in several members of the same family ? 3. When it is present in one member of a family, is it ever noticed that the other children are out of sorts, although showing no spots ? Lailler (‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1869, p. 50) gives the case of a man, set. 47, twice affected with erythema sol are (ab insolatione) of the hands, with an interval of nine months, who died later of delirium tremens. He and Bazin considered the occurrence of the cerebral symptoms to be only a coincidence, while Hardy regarded it as a case of erytheme pella- greux, even before the appearance of the latter. Perroud (“ Note sur les Tumeurs ephemeres congestive de la Peau,” ‘Ann. de Derm, et Syph.,’ 1869, i, 193) describes, under this title, certain localised tumours of a congestive rather than inflammatory nature, characterised especially by the rapidity of their evolution, pre- ceded or attended by a slight feeling of smarting, tickling, or tension, on some part of the cutaneous surface, generally the face, reaching, under the eyes of the observer, the size of a nut, a hen’s or even a turkey’s egg, resistent, warm, of a pale red, if of any colour, attended, to the patient, with a feeling of heat and pulsation, but without fever or any general malaise, lasting only a few hours, perhaps only a few minutes, appearing and disappearing in the same rapid manner. This round of phenomena may occur several times a day, at the same part or at different ones, for a period of several weeks or months. In the absence of suppuration and ulceration, and in their chronic reproduc- tion, these tumours resemble erythema nodosum ; but Perroud thinks these are sufficient differences to make two allied but distinct affec- tions. Por instance, the absence of prodromic symptoms, fever, or rheumatoid pains in the joints, and of marked coloration. The pre- dilection of these tumours for the face, though they may attack all points, their disappearance without any trace of their former exist- ence or without the ecchymoses so usually left behind by erythema nodosum, seem to separate them from the latter. And they do not, like the last, appear to be exclusively allied to rheumatism or dys- menorrhoea. After recounting two cases related by Graves (‘Clin. Lect.,’ i, 461,463), he gives five observed by himself: in a woman of lymphatic habits; a man, set. 44, suffering from gastric disturbance, who had had acute articular rheumatism; a scrofulous woman, set. 32, on the fortieth day after her second confinement; and two other women, aged respectively 27 and 32, suffering from dysmenorrhoea and neuralgia.* * It may be well to compare with the author’s remark about E. nodosum the fact that three of these five cases were combined with rheumatism and dysmenorrhoea; in