417 LABOUR : OPERATIONS. auxiliary, but that we must rely upon antiphlogistic treatment at the emptying of the uterus. (£ Annali Univ. di Med. Milano, 1868.) _ Dr. Itulistral describes a breech-forceps, and a case m which the in- strument was used. It is i inches long ; the blades measure to the lock o inches; they have the head-curve of the obstetric forceps corre- sponding to the width of the breech. The closed forceps has a space of af inches at the widest part of the bow. The ends which touch are 11 lines broad, and provided with a border turning in about -J-th of an inch, serving to prevent slipping off. In using, the instrument the blades must be applied only in the bend of the thighs. (‘ Monatsschr. f. Geburtsk.,’ Jan., 1869.) _ . Dr. Duncan discusses the relative merits of the Pans model ol the cephalotribe and of the Edinburgh model, by which it is presumed is meant Sir James Simpson’s. Prom experiments and study of the mechanical properties of the two forms, he concludes that the Paris model crushed the head much more completely; that the blades came more closely together; that it is, in short, much more powerful than the short or Edinburgh model, the blades or handles ol which are apt to bend under their work. Dr. Duncan has made some modi- fications in the Paris model, substituting the Briinninghausen lock for the Erench, diminishing the pelvic curve, improving the screw, and lessening the weight of the instrument. (‘ Edinb. Med. and Surg. Journ.,’ Dec., 1868.) Dr. Ilyernaux relates (‘ Journ. de Med., &c., de Bruxelles,’ 1870) two cases in which he performed decollation or bisection at the neck on account of impaction after death of the foetus from shoulder-presenta- tion, by means of a whip-cord. 'Embryotomy.—Dr. Barnes demonstrates (‘ Obstetr. Trans.,’ 1869) his new method of embryotomy applicable in cases of extreme pelvic contraction. He employs a powerful wire ecraseur. The loop of wire can be slipped up into the uterus, and, opening, it embraces the foetal head, which has previously been perforated; section is then made, and may be repeated. Thus, the head may be quite cut up, so as to offer no resistance to delivery. The thorax may then have to be perforated and caused to collapse by dividing the ribs by scissors. The advantages of the operation are, that it can be practised where the deformity is so great that there is not room for the cephalotribe, and the whole force is expended upon the foetus, the mother’s structures being spared all pressure and contusion. Dr. Oettler relates the history of a case in which he performed Ccesarian section four times in succession upon the same woman. She was extremely rachitic. The conjugate diameter measured scarcely two inches, the diagonal conjugate in. In subsequent operations Oettler made his incision on the side of the pre-existing cicatrices. Slight adhesions were found between uterus and abdominal walls. He also avoided the cicatrix in the uterus. The woman perfectly recovered. All the children were saved. On the last occasion the patient declared that menstruation ceased at the end of July, that a single coitus took place on the 9th August. Labour set in on the 9th May, giving 273 days as the term of gestation. (Complete success justifies the repeated 27