445 THE CHILD : GROWTH. above all upon gymnastics, systematically carried out lo be useful, this means must be conducted in an orderly manner No good is done by leaving children to tumble about according to their own instincts. 6. Watchfulness is required as puberty advances. He then discusses the question, what diseases are consequent upon growth, that is, to what evils does growth give rise? The influence of growth upon the apparatus of the circulation gives rise to many anomalies and diseases. He refers first to the sometimes incomplete change from the foetal to the extra-uterine condition, as the more or less complete persistence of the foramen ovale and the ductus arteriosus. The development ot the circulatory apparatus keeps pace with the wants of nutrition and de- velopment of particular parts. The skin and mucous membranes of children are more easily injected, and congestions of internal organs take place more easily, and. this not only by venous stasis, but also through the activity of the arterial stream. Hence are observed in children such frequent congestions or bleedings of a non-inflammatory nature, which occasion very different symptoms according to the part affected. To this powerful and rapid development of the circulation the structure of the chest must be adapted; it must increase, especially in its antero-posterior diameter, to accommodate the larger lungs and heart. If the framework of the chest remain backward in this relation, serious disturbances ensue. The cribbed heart, hindered in its move- ments, butts powerfully against the chest-wall, and a tendency to pal- pitations and hypertrophy ensues ; quick movements bring on dyspnoea. Can growth excite fever ? Is there really “ a growing fever ? ” Soem- mering agrees with Bouchut'that there is a fever attending growth which cannot be localised. He observes that during the age of growth the plasticity of the blood is greater than at a later period ; it often cups, is evidently apt to induce inflammatory affections ; about puberty, when certain organs hitherto passive come into function, the blood undergoes a change which is not without danger; and the lively blood of childhood is very susceptible to the reception of zymotic poisons. The influence of growth upon the digestive apparatus favours certain diseases. As a general proposition it may be stated that during growth, from the greater activity of the circulation and respiration, there is a much stronger disposition to diseases of the organs of respiration than after completed growth. The influences on the secretions is marked by the greater disposition to catarrh during childhood as in old age. In children the catarrh of the alimentary and respiratory mucous membranes, Begnier and the author say stand in relation to the rapidity ot growth. But effusions are also more free in the serous membranes. During growth effusions into the pericardium, empyema and skin-dropsy are frequent. The greater activity of the lymphatic glands disposes to disease. Sometimes the Thymus-gland, instead of shrinking, remains large, and hinders respiration, and cases of persistent hypertrophy and degeneration of the supra-renal capsules (Addison’s disease) are not uncommon in children. Excessive growth of the lymphatic glands of the neck, bronchi and mesentery are frequent, and the enlargements only go down when growth is perfected. Growth disposes to many diseases of the brain and spinal