415 OBSTETRIC THERAPEUTICS AND OPERATIONS. fits increased ; half-drachm doses of chloral were given. The fits de- creased, and perfect recovery ensued. WLether there was albuminuria or not is not stated. (£ Lancet,’ 1870.) By Dr. Head, who used it in a case of puerperal mania. The patient had been delivered of her fourth child. There was great restlessness. She took a drachm of chloral; this was repeated. She slept well. Becovery good. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1870.) Dr. Playfair refers to a casewhei’e the chloral seemed useful in avert- ing puerperal mania. (‘ Obstetrical Transactions,’ 1870.) Mr. E. Lambert relates some observations made at the Edinburgh Maternity under Sir J. Simpson, on the action of chloral during labour. Eleven cases are narrated. He concludes that it may produce the same unconsciousness under labour as chloroform. Chloroform should be given during the second stage, chloral during the first. It does not suspend, but rather promotes uterine contraction. It shortens labour. The effects of chloral are continued beyond the period of completed parturition, and the repose experienced afterwards is a favorable cir- cumstance. It is best given in doses of fifteen grains every quarter of an hour until some effect is produced. It sometimes produces vomit- ing. (‘Edinb. Med. Journ.,’ 1870.) Dr. Saint-Germain has subjected to fresh experiments the use of electricity in labour. lie never found uterine contractions excited when they had not previously set in spontaneously. When labour had begun, the conductors applied to the sides of the abdomen always induced acceleration of the pains. Dilatation of the neck was always rapidly produced. In every case the expulsion of the placenta imme- diately followed that of the child. In conclusion he says, without sharing the enthusiasm of Barnes as to the application of electricity, he thinks it ought to be fully investigated. (The reporter begs leaire to add that his enthusiasm, if he ever had any, was only temporary. He fully proved in 1854 the power of galvanism to accelerate labour as well as to provoke labour. WLilst still thinking that galvanism may occa- sionally be of service, he finds that the indications it meets are much better accomplished by other means.—B. B.) (‘ L’Union Med.,’ Nov. 1869.) Dr. Inglis contends for the superior advantages of applying the short forceps with the patient in the supine position. He places her close to and nearly parallel with the side of the bed. He says as objections to the lateral position, that there is great difficulty in keeping the patient’s breech over the edge of the mattress; that it puts the perineum more on the stretch ; and that it is necessary to force back the perineum to introduce the blades. (There are real advantages in the supine posi- tion ; but the objections urged against the lateral position are void of force if a proper double-curved forceps is used. It is not at all neces- sary to drag the patient to the edge of the bed.— R. B.) Dubl Med Press,’ 1870.) ' Turning in contracted pelvis.—Dr. IToening, of Bonn, relates an inte- resting case m illustration of this practice (‘Mon. f. Geburtsk. ’ i860). A woman who had been delivered at term of six dead children came under observation in four subsequent pregnancies. In each of these