5 BLOOD, CIRCULATION. has been carefully investigated by A. Schmidt at Leipsic under Ludwig’s direction, and a full abstract of the paper is given by Dr. Gamgee in the ‘Journal of Anatomy’ (iv, p. 172, 1870). From these researches it appears that active muscle consumes more oxygen than quiescent, but no relation can be established between the amount of oxygen absorbed and of work done. The quantity of oxygen taken up by muscle increases proportionately to the rate of flow of blood through its vessels. Preyer* * * § gives a detailed account of the physical and chemical pro- perties of the colouring matter of the blood, and shows the optical properties of this substance are absolutely the same throughout the whole range of the animal kingdom, so that from man down to the earthworm the blood colouring matter presents exactly the same ab- sorption bands, and furnishes when decomposed substances having identical spectra. The crystals of hsemo-globin are all doubly refract- ing, have a silky lustre when seen suspended in water, possess an acid reaction, do not diffuse through parchment, and have not the slightest fibrino-plastic properties. Salkowskyf refers to the question of the identity of hsematoidin and bilirubin, and states that hiematoidin obtained from a cyst possessed all the properties of bilirubin. Dr. P. A. ToungJ expresses himself still more strongly in favour of the same view, and shows from the results of his analysis, first, that bile is a secretion rich in iron; and secondly, that this iron is probably derived from haemoglobin ; hence he draws the conclusion that the destruction of the red corpuscles takes place in the adult liver. Hoppe Seyler § describes a new purple-red colouring matter obtained together with albumen from haemoglobin by the action of alcohol and sulphuric acid, and of alcohol and an alkali. He names it haemo-chromogen, and states that by oxidation it is converted into haematin. Dr. Eichardson,|| of Pennsylvania Hospital, Philadelphia, adduces various arguments in favour of the old view that the blood-corpuscles possess a cellular structure (cell wall and contents). He relies chiefly on the remarkable appearances presented by the crystallization of the colouring matter of the corpuscle in the large red corpuscles of the proteus or menobranchus ; upon the results of the section of the cor- puscles with a sharp needle, and upon the effects of the addition of large quantities of water to the blood of man. Savory maintains that if the blood of the oviparous vertebrata be examined with sufficient rapidity after withdrawal from the vessels, the red corpuscles will be found to be destitute of a nucleus, which may, indeed, be seen to form in their interior, especially in strong and healthy animals. This statement receives some support from the observations of Brunton,** according to whom the composition of the nuclei of the blood-corpuscles of birds, amphibia, and fishes, is much more analogous * Pfluger s Archiv fur Physiol.,' 1868, p. 395; and full abstract bv Gamgee in Humphry and Turner’s ‘ Journal of Anat. and Physiol./ iii, 1869, p. 465. ' t ‘ Iloppe Seyler’s Med. Chem. Untersuch/ Ileft iii, p.436. + Humphry and Turner’s ‘ Journal of Anat./ v, p. 158. § ‘ Ccntralblatt/ 1870, p.244. || Pamphlet, 1870. If I roceed. Roy. Soc./ xvii, p. 346. *• Humphry and Turner’s * Journal of Anatomy and Physiol.,’ iv, 1870, p 91.