REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 7G eincm Ilause,” ‘Arch. f. Derm.,’ i, 205; “Undiscovered Exantheras,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ., 1870,1,62; “Mem. on Precautions to be taken against Sc. F.” ‘lien. Med' Oft. Priv. Counc./ 1869, p. 69. Measles (Morbilli) and Rotheln (Rubeola). Giraud (‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1869, 339), after observing 108 cases of measles, declares decisively that the affection is never propagated except by direct contagion. The incubation period he considers to be from thirteen to sixteen days ; in three only of his cases did the rash appear as late as the sixteenth day; in all the rest it was developed on the thirteenth or fourteenth day, but never before the thirteenth, and never after the sixteenth. Monti (‘ Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,’ ii, 76) holds, in opposition to Edrster, that the immunity from measles in children under one year is by no means constant. Of 302 children treated in St. Ann’s Hospital for this affection, 105 were under that age. He decides that it is im- possible to fix the age at which measles is most frequent; that children are liable to it at any age ; that sex makes no difference ; that the mor- tality from measles (as evidenced by his sixth table) is greatest during the first year of life, and greater in children under five years than beyond that age. Lariviere (‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1869, 435) gives a case of paralysis of the lower extremities after measles in a child a year old. Neumann (“ Ueber einen seltenen Yerlauf von Morbillen,” ‘Mien. Med. Zeitg.,’ 1869, 316) publishes a case of pustules in the skin occur- ring in measles in a child aged two years. Thomas (“ Beobachtungen fiber masernahnliche Hautausscblage,” ‘ Archiv. d. Heilk.,’ x, 450) gives three cases of secondary rotheln, with febrile bronchitis ; a fourth case, in which rotheln were developed after severe febrile symptoms, lasting for fourteen days, and resembling typhoid; and five cases of measly eruption in patients suffering from scarlet fever, appearing in one case on the eleventh day, and in four between the fourteenth and seventeenth days of the original disease, all of which he considers to be scarlet fever relapses. Curves of the temperature in all the cases are given, with two tables, for comparison, of normal measles and normal febrile rotheln. The same author (“Beobachtungen fiber Kotheln,” ‘Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,’ ii, 233) gives in a somewhat long paper a full descrip- tion, with cases, of the symptoms, &c., of rotheln. According to his observations during an epidemic of scarlet fever, the exanthem of rotheln bears only a resemblance to that of measles, and has not the slightest affinity with scarlet fever. Of 55 patients, 2 only were adults, a man of twenty-four and a girl of eighteen years; all the rest were under twelve, the great majority of boys attacked being between the ages of one and three years, that of the girls between seven and ten years. Steiner (‘ Arch. f. Derm.,’ i, 237) observed 21 cases of rotheln, all except one in private practice, several occurring sporadically, the majority epidemically. The patients were children between eight months and ten years, of whom eight had never suffered from any acute exanthem. Of the rest, seven had had measles only, and six measles and scarlet