431 THE CHILD : INTRA-UTERINE. have been made by Simpson, Nettekovin, Simonart, Martin, G. and C. Brann, Barkow, Crede', Hobl, Nonancourt, and others. He examines the matter under several beads : 1. Rudimentary reproduction of parts on the amputation-stumps. This is of interest in reference to the distinction between an arrest of development and a spontaneous amputation. This tendency to repro- duction contended for by Simpson was disputed by Debout, who main- tained that all these apparent reproductions were instances of arrested development. The possibility, however, of reproduction in man is sup- ported by the case shown by Professor Bruns, of a man who, six years before, had undergone amputation of the right foot by Lisfranc’s method, and resection of the middle bones of the left foot, and who had repro- duced nail-structures in both scars. But Martin and Simonart suggest that this reproduction is only apparent, that a completely or incom- pletely separated limb may be affected by a secondary arrest of develop- ment, the cause of which may be a constricting agent. When there is constriction a hindrance to circulation exists, a diminution of nutrition, and an arrest in the development of the part below the constriction. If the separation is complete, the interruption of nutrition of the separated parts is complete, it shrivels, and at birth it is found not to correspond with the development of the child. Now, if a constriction be formed at a very early stage of gestation, then at birth the part below the con- striction may be so undeveloped, and be so much behind in growth the full-formed child, that it may present the appearance for rudimentary reproduction, whilst it is in reality only a secondary arrest of develop- ment. These cases thus form a transition kind between arrest of development and spontaneous amputation; and the conclusion is founded that the presence of rudimentary parts has only a doubtful value in distinguishing the two. 2. Can gangrene take place in the closed cavity of the ovum ?—This question is important in reference to the share of gangrene as a cause of spontaneous amputation, as accounting for what becomes of the ampu- tated part, and especially to the process of spontaneous amputation. We must consider sudden interruption of the circulation from injury of the vessels from fracture, and gradual increasing disturbation’of cir- culation through constrictions. The ordinary form of humid gangrene requires oxygen, and separated parts have been found quite free from decomposition. Against dry gangrene or mummification there is the circumstance that the foetus is floating in liquor amnii. Then there is the observation that of cases of commencing spontaneous amputation and of the separated parts which, like the dead foetus long retained in utero, only undergo a peculiar kind of softening and maceration, and which, all the same, fall into rapid decomposition when exposed to the air. Gangrene in ovo must, therefore, be'excluded. 3. Can a separated part in an ovum vanish, and when ? This question is the more important because the cases in which the separated part, where the presumption of spontaneous amputation was strong has been found are rare compared to those where the separated part is not found. In unbroken abortion-ova of an early period, not seldom, no traces of em- bryo are found; the liquor amnii looks thicker and turbid, so that it is