270 REPORT ON SURGERY. that the numbers do not give an accurate idea of the relative frequency of the disease in different bones. The frequency with which caries was met with in different parts of the skeleton was as follows: head and vertebral column, 1091 ; upper limbs, 185 ; lower limbs, 720. With regard to individual bones, the numbers were : skull and facial bones, 205; vertebral column, 702; st'ernum, clavicle, and ribs, 184; scapula, 4; shoulder-joint, 28; humerus (shaft), 13 ; elbow-joint, 93 ; radius (shaft), 2; ulna (shaft), 4; wrist and hand, 41 ; pelvis, 80; hip-joint, 189; femur (shaft), 31 ; knee-joint, 238; tibia (shaft), 30; fibula, 2; ankle-joint and foot, 130. In the spinal column the distribution was: cervical vertebrae, 183; dorsal vertebrae, 310; lumbar vertebrae, 199; and in eight instances the exact seat of disease was not stated. In 377 cases the individual vertebrae diseased are specified, and a table of curves, showing the relative frequency, is given. The vertebrae most frequently diseased were the axis (99 cases) and the sixth dorsal (80) ; then followed the fifth dorsal (73), the atlas (73), the eighth dorsal (72), and the seventh dorsal (71); next came the third cervical, the third, fourth, ninth, and tenth dorsal, and the fourth lumbar, with numbers ranging from 62 to 66. It is difficult to account for these differences; but the statistics go to show that the upper and middle parts of the vertebral column are more liable to chronic ostitis and periostitis, induced by mechanical or functional irritation, and kept up by the constitutional (scrofulous) condition of the patient. The great frequency of caries of the skull is not surprising, and calls for no special remark. Of the 203 cases of caries of the skull and face, in 161 the disease was in the cranial bones, and in 44 in the facial. Among the latter were many cases of disease of the hard palate and nasal bones, mostly attributable to syphilis. There were 100 cases of caries of the petrous bone (on both sides in 3) ; in 30 of these there were thromboses in the transverse sinus; in 41 there were metastatic abscesses in the internal organs, and purulent meningitis in 40; of the remaining 61 cases of caries of the skull, most were due to syphilis. Most of the cases of caries of the ribs were of scrofulous origin ; in the sternum and clavicle the disease was generally due to syphilis. Billroth believes that the numbers above given fairly represent the relative frequency of caries in the various bones. He points out, how- ever, that some qualification is necessary, from the fact that there are no wards for children in the General Hospital, there being special children’s hospitals ; and that, as many children suffering from caries of the spine and lower limbs are brought into these hospitals and die there, the relative frequency of the disease in these parts of the body would be still greater than shown in the figures if the cases of children dying of caries could be taken into the account. Further, persons affected with chronic bone disease of the upper limbs come into hospital in much smaller number than those who have caries of the spine, pelvis, and lower limbs ; and of the former, it is mostly those who are phthisical that come nnder observation. A certain number of children also came into hospital with caries of the hand, and many of them recovered.. Hence, probably, the proportion of cases of caries in the upper limbs is greater than that represented in the figures. When, however, the deficiency