389 OPERATIONS ON UTERUS. uterine hematocele followed, but the patient was saved. In another case some laceration of the cervix was caused, but this appeared to have been produced by awkwardness in introducing the tent, lie urges that the tents should never be used if there is any inflammatory action, and that they should be avoided at or near menstrual periods. As to the mode of introducing the tents, he recommends Simpson s stilet or a pair of forceps. (He appears not to be aware of Dr. Barnes’ instru- ment, which makes the passage of a tent as easy as the passing a sound.) (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ 1870.) Dr. Hoening relates the case of a woman who thrice after short in- tervals was delivered of twins, and twice aborted. On examining by sound the instrument entered 10^ c.m., the knobbed extremity being felt nearly on a level with the umbilicus. Dr. Hoening is confident the sound did not traverse a Eallopian tube, but that it actually perfo- rated the uterine wall, the tissues being softened from puerpery. (‘ Cen- tralbl. f. d. Med. Wissenscb.,’ 1870.) Dr. Emmet gives (‘Amer. Journ. of Obstetrics’, 1869) a summary of his experience of dilatation of the cervix uteri by incision. The iiterus being, he says, an erectile organ, flexure may vary in degree owing to the variation in the circulation. The flexure is above the vaginal junc- tion. Surgical interference in such cases is unjustifiable. In endome- tritis with flexure lie uses large vaginal injections of hot water. This after a time produces contraction of the vessels. Then a solution of chromic acid, or iron, or iodine, may be applied to the inner surface of the uterus by the aid of two instruments, the uterine probe and the “applicator.” The probe is a small ductile silver sound. This takes the curve of the uterus. The “applicator” is moulded to the same curve, and carries the fluid soaked in cotton twisted on it. After using chromic acid, Dr. Emmet insists upon keeping the patient quiet. At a later period it may be useful to dilate the cervix by tents. If relief is not obtained, division of the cervix may then be useful. With regard to the intra-uterine pessary, he says pelvic cellulitis is the rule, and not the exception from its use. When the flexure is below the vaginal juncture the case is different. This is generally congenital, and dys- menorrhoea and sterility commonly attend it. His impression is that fully two out of three of the married operated upon under twenty-five years have become pregnant within the first year. Division of the cervix should not be attempted in any case when perimetritis is sus- pected. If the flexure is in the cervix Dr. Emmet divides the poste- rior lip in the median line with scissors. If the flexure is high up and at a sharp angle, division of this anterior angle with the knife will be necessary. The open canal should be firmly packed with little pledgets of cotton soaked in glycerine, and over all the vagina tamponed, as if haemorrhage at the time actually existed. This precaution is of the greatest importance, for a divided vessel in erectile tissue may contract promptly at first, but with reaction after the operation bleeding comes on suddenly, and the mouths of the vessels enlarge in a remarkable manner from the force and continuance of the current. Dr. Emmet has abandoned the practice of incising the anterior lip for dysmenorrhoea depending on retroflexion. He says this condition