HEPOUT ON SURGERY. 22G operation a preliminary tracheotomy should always be first done, and a canula fixed in. An incision, five or six centimetres long, is then to be made parallel with the lower edge of the hyoid bone. After dividing the superficial cervical fascia and the sterno-hyoid muscles (so far as necessary), the thyro-hyoid membrane is cut through by direct vertical strokes. The mucous membrane of the pharynx, thus laid bare, is divided along the edge of the hyoid bone; the epiglottis is then ex- posed, and is drawn out by hooks through the wound. During the manipulation the larynx becomes pushed down, so that the space between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage is at least doubled. The posterior surface of the gullet, the arytenoid bodies, the glottis, and the whole throat, are now perfectly seen,'and tumours seated on any of these parts may be removed by careful operation. The haemorrhage which occurs can be arrested by pressure with the finger or by ligature, and the blood may be prevented from entering the larynx by means of a piece of sponge introduced into the wound and pressed down on the glottis until the operation is completed. The operation having been completed, the edges of the wound are to be brought together with sutures, and the head kept bent forwards. Until the wound is healed the patient must be fed through an oesophageal tube, and respiration must be carried on through the canula. Acute meningitis after operations.—In the ‘ Wiener Medizinisehe Wochenschr.,’ Nos. i and 2 for 1869, Dr. Billroth, of Vienna, calls at- tention to a sequel of surgical operations which he has not seen noticed by surgical writers, and of which he has not heard orally, viz. acute meningitis and cerebral oedema appearing in cases which were apparently making favorable progress, and causing death in two days. He relates two cases in illustration. The first case was that of a boy set. 5, who suffered from suppuration in and around the left knee-joint, the result of a fall. On March 11, 1868, Billroth opened the joint, cut and scraped away the diseased parts, and introduced drainage-tubes through abscesses which had formed in the popliteal space and under the tendon of the quadriceps extensor muscle. There was very little bleeding; no secondary haemorrhage. After the operation the child complained much of pain in the part operated on, which was partially relieved by two sub- cutaneous injections, each containing one eighth of a grain of morphia. On the morning after the operation the patient had had a tolerably quiet night; the pulse was 152, the temperature 38 6 Cent. (1017 Bahr.), and he still had much pain. At 8 p.m. of this day—thirty-three hours after the operation—the temperature having risen to 104° Fahr.,he was seized with convulsive twitchings of the lower limbs, the painbeing exacerbated. After one eighth of a grain of opium had been injected subcutaneously he was somewhat more quiet for a time, but at half-past ten violent con- vulsions, accompanied with an increase of the pain, took place in all the limbs, and even in the muscles of the trunk. One sixth of a grain of morphia was injected, and produced some relief; but at midnight all the symptoms returned. Soon afterwards he became comatose and died. The total quantity of morphia injected in less than forty hours did not amount to one grain. On post-mortem examination the skull