LIGATURE IN TRAUMATIC VARICOSE ANEURISM. 2S3 made on the different views held as to the mode of cure in these cases and on various means of treatment. Iuokim mi lyatm.-ln the ‘Retrospect' for 1867-8, p. *99. is a note of a case in which Mr. Gay laid open the sac and tied the artery above and below. In July, 1869, Mr. Gay had another case. He attempted the same operation. The patient had had his femoral tied for aneurism twelve months before, and pulsation now recurred. As the artery was obliterated, there was only the alternative of amputation it opening the sac, &c„ was not successful. The sac was opened and the upper end of the artery secured. The lower end was deep and difficult to reach, and when reached was so diseased that a ligature would not hold. Amputation was therefore resorted to, and the patient recovered. (‘Lancet,’ March 27, 1869.) . . . , „ . Mr. H. Smith, in a case of popliteal aneurism, after having tried flexion and compression without avail, determined to incise the sac and tie the open end of the artery. The aneurism had rapidly increased m size. The ligature came away on the eleventh day, and the patient was doing well. (‘Lancet,’Nov. 26, 1870.) Traumatic varicose aneurism successfully treated ly ligature.—Mr. Spence remarks that he can find no instance on record of any case of traumatic, varicose, femoral aneurism treated by ligature in a similar manner. The method of treatment generally recommended, and which has been hitherto almost wholly adopted in such aneurisms at the bend of the elbow, he considers inapplicable, or attended with the gravest risks, in the case of the femoral. The patient was a lad who had been stabbed in the thigh three weeks previous to the attendance of Mr. Spence. There was a pulsating swelling in the upper part of the thigh, and an undefined fulness produced by the dilated femoral vein. Pressure over the pelvis was tried with some good effect, but resulted in such irritation that an operation became necessary. About five weeks after the accident a ligature was placed on the superficial femoral above and below the swelling, without opening the sac, one ligature below Poupart’s ligament, the other in Hunter’s canal. The superficial incision was seven and a half inches in length. In a month the wound had healed save where the ligature was, and this was removed. When seen fourteen months afterwards, the cure was found complete. Mr. Spence remarks that distal ligature of the brachial for analogous conditions at the elbow has not been followed by success. Ligature of the artery above and below and gentle compression of the injured vein answers very well. It is very different with the femoral region. The risks of gangrene after operations on both vein and artery are so great that, in cases of long-standing traumatic aneurism in Hunter’s canal, the distal operation in Scarpa’s triangle has been practised to avoid injury to the vein. Prof. Syme has recorded cases showing the success of such treatment. Mr. Lizars has advocated tying the brachial artery above and below without opening the sac in cases of aneurism at the elbow, to avoid the risks of phlebitis. Experience has shown that this risk is very slight, and his plan has not been followed. When Mr.