41 IN0CULAB1LITY OP TUBERCLE. 4. Tuberculous matters given as food sometimes cause the death of the animal by a sort of septic poisoning. 5. Generally the animals fed on tuberculous lung suffer from a malaise, which is the result of this bad food (mauvaise alimentation), but do not become tuberculous. He holds, therefore, that for the animals experimented upon, tuber- culosis is not essentially either infectious or contagious. A paper was read before the Belgian Royal Academy of Medicine, Feb. 26, 1870 (see ‘Bulletin de l’Acad. Med.,’ 1870, iv, no), on “Observations relative to the infection and contagion of tubercular phthisis.” The authors, Degive and Van Hertsen, had repeatedly noticed the presence of tubercles in the uterine mucous membrane and the udders of cows affected with tuberculosis; they believe that they are right in inferring that the venereal excitement, always so lively, and sometimes persistent in this affection, results probably from the uterine lesion, and that the latter may cause hereditary transmission by a true contagion from the mother to the foetus. The well-authen- ticated existence, by themselves and other writers, of this tuberculosis in calves only a few weeks old, tends to confirm their hypothesis. Again, it appeared to them that the milk secreted by the tuberculous udder ought to be infectious, and consequently capable of communi- cating phthisis to nurse-children, and to persons who took it without previously boiling it: and they intend to carry out further experiments on the questions, whether 1. Mammary tubercles are transmissible ; 2. Milk expressed from a tuberculous udder possesses poisonous pro- perties; 3. Tubercular matters are transmissible by the generative canals. Irom the human as well as from the animal point of view, the last hypothesis is interesting, since it is known that in the female as in the cow, the uterine mucous membrane may be the seat of tubercles. [In the course of the discussion which followed, M. Crocq said that it had occurred to him that the tubercles often developed in the lower portion of the small intestine and ileum, might be due to the sputa which the patient had swallowed; but experiments he bad made upon a do» fed upon a demilitre of these sputa every day for two months, had led to no results.] Parrot ( Gaz. Med. de. Paris,’ 1869, P- 249) fed a guinea pig on maffers> an<f if succumbed to a general tuberculosis \ illemin, in a memoir (“ De la Propagation de laPhthisie,” see ‘ Ar- chives Gem. de Med.,’ 1869,1, 625) presented to the Academy of Sciences, April 13th, 1869, gives the results of different series of experiments on the inoculation, by hypodermic injection, or by the introduction of a 1 °i?CeC! fatters emPloyed; (1) Of the liquid matters expec- torated by phthisical - patients: (2) Of their dried sputa; (3) Of their sweat; (4) Of their sputa. Except in the case of the sweat, the expe- riments made with which are few and negative, he succeeded generally m developing phthisis in rabbits, and he concludes that (1) tubercle an p hisical sputa behave as poisonous substances, reproducing phthi- sis y inoculation, and by absorption through the natural channels of