DISLOCATION OP THE HIP. 241 the shoulder, and the ends carried down over the belly and back, and attached to a cord in a line with the body. By this the scapula and clavide were fixed. The head of the humerus was drawn upwards and outwards by another strap from the armpit to a pulley behind the patient’s head. Extension was kept up for three quarters of an hour before the reduction was effected. No extension was made on the arm itself, Mr. Walton simply manipulating this The reduction occurred suddenly. The patient recovered well. (£ Med. Times and Graz., Nov. Erom a review of M. Sedillot’s large work entitled Contributions a la Ckirurgie,’ in the ‘Dub. Quart. Journ.,’ we find that this author has paid particular attention to dislocations of the humerus into the lnira- spinous fossa of the scapula, and to dislocations of the femur. Of e latter, he states the most common, in his experience, to be downwards, into the obturator foramen. He also states that patients suffering from this dislocation may retain the power of walking with facility1 from the time of the occurrence of the accident, and thus it is very possible that such dislocation may be overlooked. Six cases are recorded where the power of walking was retained, and two in which the dislocation was probably overlooked. Dislocation of radius and ulna forwards.—Dr. Eorbes records a case of dislocation of both bones of the forearm forwards without fracture. The patient was a lad twelve years of age. The accident was a blow on the olecranon while the forearm was flexed. (‘ Amer. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ Oct., 1869.) The mechanism of dislocation of the hip, and its reduction by the flexion method.—H. J. Bigelow, M.D. (Philadelphia), has written a work on the subject. He gives the following summary of his conclusions: (1) The anterior part of the capsule of the joint is a triangular ligament of great strength, which when well developed exhibits an internal and external fasciculus, diverging like the branches of the inverted letter Y. It passes from the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium, and is inserted into nearly the whole length of the anterior intertrochanteric line. (2) The y ligament, the internal obturator muscle, and the capsule subjacent to it, are alone required to explain the usual phenomena of the regular luxations. (3) The regular luxations are those in which one or both branches of the Y ligament is unbroken, and their signs are constant. (4) The irregular dislocations are those in which the y ligament is wholly ruptured, and they offer no constant signs. (5) In the regular dislocations of the hip, the muscles are not essential to give position to the limb, nor desirable as aids in its re- duction. (6) The Y ligament will alone effect reduction, and explain its phenomena, a part of those connected with the dorsal dislocations excepted. (7) During the process of reduction this ligament should be kept constantly in mind. (8) The rest of the capsule, except perhaps that portion beneath the internal obturator tendon, need not be con- sidered in reduction if the capsular orifice is large enough to admit the 16