CONTAGION AND INFECTION. 45 Every kind of contagium consists of [extremely minute, living] particles. , . . The contagium-particles (micrococci, microzymse, microzymes) are spheroidal, transparent, of gelatinous consistence, of density equal to that of the animal fluids in which they float, mainly but not exclusively composed of albuminous matter. < . The conditions of their origin and growth point to the fungi, probably not of the same species “All microzymes are not contagium-particles, yet all contagium-particles may be microzymes.” Two views are held as to the origin of these bodies: “ According to one they naturally exist as particles of living tissue, and these take part not only in the morbid processes, but in the performance of the normal functions. According to the other they are originally morbid,. and are imported into the body from without, being derived either from the ‘ tissues or organs of other infected individuals, or produced by the trans- formation of the contents of the reproductive cells of the parasitic fungi inhabiting the higher plants.” Before accepting or rejecting either of these theories, the following questions must be investigated: “(a) Is it true that the destructive parasites which inhabit the tissues of many of our common plants pro- duce microzymes by a normal process of development ? (b) Are such microzymes respectively endowed with distinctive morbific properties ? (c) Is it true that microzymes take part in any of the normal chemical functions, especially those which relate to the transformation of the albuminous compounds? {cl) Can they arise de novo in living tissues in mere consequence of impaired activity of nutrition ? ” Durand (“Quelques reflexions sur le role des Infusoires dans les fermen- tations etdans la formation de maladies,” ‘ Graz, des Hop.,’ 1869, pp. 27, 41) does not look upon microphytes and microzoaires as the principal agents in the phenomena of fermentation and contagion, but considers that there is greater simplicity and less hypothesis in his theory that the great agent is electricity, which causes decomposition in organic bodies with the greatest ease, and is, again, developed from that decomposition. Chauveau {“ Isolement des corpuscles solides qui constituent les agents specifiques des humeurs virulentes,” ‘ Compt. Bend.,’ t. 68, p. 829) took 10 cc. of pus from the lung of a glandered horse, mixed it at once with 200 grammes of pure water, and after shaking, allowed it to stand for two hours ; he then decanted off the supernatant fluid, filtered and subjected the residue to repeated washings, the whole operation taking up thirty-nine hours. By these means he believed that he isolated the corpuscular elements of the poison of glanders. The last residue was mixed with a small quantity of distilled water, and injected under the skin of the cheek in a horse and a donkey, which four days afterwards presented all the symptoms of glanders. He concludes from his experiments that not only may the real poisonous elements be washed without losing their specific properties, but their pirolonged sojourn in water does not succeed in communicating the poison to that fluid; and that this fact, in full accordance with his former researches on the inactivity of the plasma, proves definitely the mutual independence ol the poisonous agents and their vehicles.