12 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. ITeppner * contends with Luschka, and against Arnold and Pfortner for the glandular nature of the glandula caroticum. DIGESTION. A series of experiments have been undertaken with complete success in the physiological laboratory of Wurzburg by P. Losch,f to demon- strate the inaccuracy of the statement made by some observers that the action of saliva on starch is due to the presence of a fungus (Leptothrix buccalis) and not to ptyaline. It was remarkable, however, that the saliva obtained from the submaxillary gland of the dog by irritation of the chorda tympani exerted no action upon cooked starch, either when exposed, to the air or when kept in hermetically sealed vessels, notwith- standing the temperature was steadily maintained at or a little above blood heat. Schiff J having found by experiment that the quantity of bile secreted diminishes when a biliary fistula has been established, and increases again when it is reinjected, draws the conclusion that the secretion is reabsorbed in its passage along the alimentary canal, and serves for the formation of fresh supplies; though it might fairly be objected that the bile in all probability plays an important part in the processes of intestinal digestion, however ignorant we may be of its nature, and that, consequently, its abstraction through a fistula may impair the digestion and absorption of the materials required for the production of the biliary secretion. He finds that the addition of bile to ordinary chyme only causes a precipitation of mucus ; but if the chyme be very acid the peptones also fall, and thus the conflicting statements of previous observers are reconciled. The secretions of Brunner’s glands and of the Lieberkuhnian follicles appear to possess a remarkable power of arresting the digestive action of the gastric juice. After extirpation of the spleen the pancreatic secretion is no longer capable of digesting albumen. Horsford § considers that the free hydrochloric acid in the gastric juice proceeds from the action of acid phosphates on alkaline chlorides in the gastric tubules. v. Wittich|| has suggested a new mode by which the active principle of the salivary fluid, and not only of the salivary, but of the pancreatic and gastric fluids, may be obtained. He minces the salivary gland and washes it with water; the addition of glycerine will then extract the sugar forming ferment, which can be precipitated by means of absolute alcohol, with preservation of its power when redissolved in water. He obtains pepsine in the same way by acting on the finely divided stomach with glycerine. Prof. M. Poster^! states he has tried and can recommend v. Wittich’s mode of isolating pepsine and other so-called ferments by means of pure glycerine. The amylo-lytic or starch-converting ferment ob- * ‘ Virchow’s Archiv,’ xlvi, p. 401. f Abstract, by Hermann, in * Centralblatt fur die Med. YViss.,’ 1869, p. 231. X ‘ Lo Sperimentale,’ 1870; and Hermann’s Abstract in the ‘Centralblatt,’ No. 19,1870. § ‘ Proceed. Roy. Soc.,’ No. iii. || ‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv fur die gesammte Physiologie,’ ii, p. 193 ; and * Berlin Khmsche Wochenschrift,’ 1869, No. 47. If ‘Nature,’ Dec. 29, 1870.