REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 498 between the surface of the soil and the surface of the water in the well. Where the ground-water in the upper porous strata is not constant, or where, on other grounds, the level of the water in wells cannot be con- sidered as a measure of the variation in the humidity of the superjacent strata, the use of wells for observations on ground-water is not permis- sible, and. other methods must be employed for the purpose. (31) Epi- demics of cholera have at times spread from the Tropics to the Arctic Circle. If the disease is connected in its epidemic spread in any known mode with organic processes going on in the soil, the temperature of the soil and its continual movements cannot be indifferent; hence con- stant observations ought to be made on the temperature of the soil in various regions. Most epidemics have appeared with us at one period of the year, late in summer and autumn, after the temperature of the soil has attained its maximum. We do not as yet know at what depth below the surface the prescribed processes go on; but we know that below zero (32°P.) all the vegetative and fermentative processes known to us with which the hypothetical cholera-processes can be most nearly compared are usually arrested. But since cholera has appeared in the far north (St. Petersburg), exceptionally even as a winter epidemic, where the soil is frozen to the depth of several feet, so must that part of the process which furnishes the local and seasonal substratum for the epidemic (y) be still possible in the houses situated on this soil, and in immediate connection with it, even below the frost line. The fact of the local and seasonal dispositions often first manifesting themselves at an advanced period of the year cannot be accepted as a refutation of the favouring influence of a high temperature, but only as an instance of late maturation in consequence of preceding hindrances to development. In those parts of St. Petersburg in which cholera has prevailed epide- mically early in winter it has constantly happened that the ground beneath the houses has not been frozen, whilst sometimes also in winter water (ground-water) has been found in the cellars, whilst the general surface of the ground was frozen hard. Prozen humid soil is, indeed, less porous than unfrozen soil, but it is, nevertheless, still permeable. In St. Petersburg the greater the difference in winter between the temperature of the air indoors and of that outside the greater must be the force of the ascentional current of air in the houses, and hence, as has been observed, the greater the care with which external air is excluded the greater the quantity of air drawn up through the porous soil. Prof. Pettenkofer next makes some observations on the immunity of Lyons from cholera, and says—(1) The striking immunity of Lyons from cholera cannot be explained by the non-importation of the specific germ a,’. This immunity has been preserved ever since the year 1831. (2) It cannot be supposed that the inhabitants of Lyons have not the individual predisposition to cholera. (3) This immunity cannot be explained by the currents of air caused by the union of the streams of the Rhone and the Saone, since these are not greater than those experienced in other towns which have suffered severely from the disease. (4) The meteorological conditions of Lyons do not enable us to recognise any cause for the difference, in respect of cholera, observed between this