EEPOET ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. BY THOMAS STEVENSON, M.D. Bond., M.E.C.P., LECTURER ON CHEMISTRY TO GUY’S HOSPITAL; EXAMINEE, IN POEENSIC MEDICINE IN THE TTNIYEESITY OE LONDON; MEDICAL OEFICEE OE HEALTH EOE THE PAEISH OF ST. PANCEAS. Poisoning. Dks. A. Crum Brown and Thomas E. Eraser,* of Edinburgh, have extended their researches “ On the Connection between Chemical Con- stitution and Physiological Action,”t and have investigated the phy- siological action of the ammonium bases derived from atropia and conia. It is known that atropia has a somewhat complicated physiological action, for it directly influences the functions of the cerebro-spinal and sympathetic nervous systems. The principal effects produced by it on the former system are paraiy&i; oi .lie sensory and motor nerves, and excitation of the spinal cord. By its action on the sympathetic nerves it influences the contraction of the unstriped muscles. In addi- tion to these general actions, atropia influences in a special manner the functions of the vagi nerves and of the iris, suspending the cardiac in- hibitory power of the former and producing contraction of the latter. To cause death in the lower animals, it is necessary that atropia be administered in comparatively large doses. In the previous part of this research^ they had found that the chemical addition of iodide or sulphate of methyl or of ethyl greatly diminishes the lethal activity of strychnia, brucia, tbebaia, codeia, morphia, and nicotia. Very sin- gularly, a similar operation performed on atropia, in place of diminish- ing, considerably increases the lethal activity of this alkaloid. The convulsant action of atropia was also removed, and -the predominant symptoms produced by the salts of methyl-atropium are those of pa- ralysis alone, and their mydriatic action is not markedly less than that of atropia itself. The paralytic action of the salts of methyl- and of ethyl-atropium was proved to be caused entirely by an action on the * ‘ Trans. Royal Soc. Erlinl).,’ xxv, p. 693. f Vide ‘Year-Book,’ 1867-8, p. 441. t Ibid., p. 443. 29