POISONING. 453 p.cid produced no visible effect when applied to the mucous membrane of the stomach after death. ... Dr. 0. E. E. Hofmann * of Basle, relates three cases of arsenical poi- soning, in two of which the symptoms closely resembled those of cho- lera, and in both these a fungus was found in the intestines, exactly re- sembling in appearance that figured by Ivlobs as a cholera-fungus. A similar observation had previously been made by Virchow.f Barium.—A case of poisoning by nitrate of baryta is recorded,J but the symptoms are not detailed. This is a rare form of poisoning. Phosphorus.—The memoirs relating to the toxicology of this sub- stance are unusually numerous, long, and interesting. Wolfs§ publishes the results of sixteen post-mortem examinations made during the period 1861—68, in Berlin, in which phosphorus had been administered. In twelve of the sixteen cases icterus w;as present, whilst in four its absence is noted. In ten of the bodies it was observed that the muscular tissue was dry, lustreless, and of a yellowish-red or yellowish-violet colour, in consequence of sanguineous extravasation and fatty degeneration. In five instances the brain, with its membranes, was anaemic; in two, the medullary substance was hyperaemic with venous blood; whilst in one case the medullary substance was extremely pale. The stomach was invariably of a grey or yellow colour. In four cases there was loss of the substance of this organ, whilst once there was minute haemorrhagic erosion ; but there were never cicatrices. The mucous membrane of the small intestines, as well as that of the stomach, was coloured in consequence of fatty degeneration of the epithelium, and glandular enteritis; this being especially marked in the duodenum, which was always free from loss of substance. The small intestines were, in one instance, deeply reddened and swollen throughout, espe- cially in the ileum. The duodenum was once swollen, and once infil- trated with blood. In all the cases the liver had undergone fatty de- generation, and in five instances this organ was atrophied. The heart was always found to be fatty, shrunken, soft, and altered in colour. The contents of this organ, in ten cases where the character of the con- tents were noted, were mostly scanty, and almost entirely of a fluid consistency ; in two cases there was a loose clot, whilst once the con- tents of the heart consisted of a mixture of loose clot and fluid blood. The kidneys had undergone fatty degeneration throughout, but more especially in the cortical substance. In three bodies the aorta had un- dergone fatty degeneration in patches. In one case a freshly deposited thrombus was found in the pulmonary artery, and an extravasation of blood in the neighbourhood of the vessel; whilst in another case there were numerous thrombi in the mediastinal vessels. In twelve intances the lungs were found to be completely inflated; twice they contained the normal quantity of blood ; once they were partially hyperasmic; in two other instances they were anaemic ; whilst in two cases they were completely, and in one case partially, oedematous. There was haemor- * ‘Virchow’sArchiv,’ 1, p. 455. f Ibid., xlvii, p. 524. + ‘ Pharm. Journ.,’ x, p. 18 r. § ‘ Virchow and Ilirsch’s Jahresber.,’ 1868, i, p. 311.