REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 70 (c) The convulsive form, with premonitory symptoms of extreme irritability, arising usually from continued exposure to the sun of the neck and shoulders. He adds two other varieties, rather divisions of the first form ; one in which the pulmonary, the other in which the cerebral symptoms pre- dominate. The treatment he gives for the different varieties he prac- tised in cases occurring at Zoulla and Komaylee. Yallin (“ Recherches experimentales sur l’Tnsolation,” ‘Arch. Gen.,’ 1870, i, 129) exposed animals to the sun during the months of June, July, and August in Paris, and, in spite of the relatively moderate intensity of solar radiation there, death always supervened in one or two hours ; post-mortem examination showed constant lesions which seem capable of explaining death. Seven experiments are given, the first very fully ; the symptoms are divided into three periods : 1. Lasting from twenty-five to thirty-five minutes; at the end of a few minutes accelerated respiration; salivation; coma and trismus. Tem- perature in the rectum rising from 38° or 390 to 43'5°, in one case to 44-o° C. 2. Lasting about five minutes; rapid or gradual fall in number of respirations, which become sighing; evident prostration. Rectal tem- perature between 43*5° and 44-o°. 3. The convulsive stage. In some cases a shuddering, a kind of “hor- ripilation ” of the whole body, or repeated shiveriDgs of different limbs ; in others a more marked tetanic movement, with arrested respiration, protruded, quivering eyeballs, clonic convulsions, lively wriggling of the tail, and voiding of urine, succeeded by coma, which terminates in death, sometimes two or three minutes after the first convulsion. Generally the thermometer marks at the onset of the seizure 440—44’5°j the moment of death 44^2—46' i°, and remains above 45 °° or three hours after death. The principal lesions found post-mortem are the sudden and exces- sive rigidity (wooden hardness) of the left ventricle and diaphragm, not excited to movement by electricity or pinching, &c., and, in a less degree, of the muscles of the trunk and limbs, together with a strongly acid reaction of the whole muscular tissue, more especially that of the left ventricle; in addition to this, relative arterial anaemia, and general venous congestion. , Upon these facts he lays great stress; the rigidity of the ventricle^ hinders the renewal of blood, that of the diaphragm the renewal of oxygen. After stating that, with some exceptions, rigidity and acid ic- action are the index of the death of muscular tissue ; that asphyxia, as such plays only a secondary part in insolation; and after reviewing ex- periments made by Cl. Bernard and others, the author proceeds, in sup- port of his view as to simple asphyxia and its share in the disease,. to quote two experiments made on animals with regard to the composition of the gas dissolved in the blood, when killed by (artificial) heat. One result was, as Setschenow had already shown, that while oxygen was entirely absent, the quantity of carbonic acid remained norma . Able to explain the rigidity of the heart, &c,, only on the theory of a