409 DYSTOCIA FROM THE SKELETON. pubic arch at the level of the union of the ascending rami of ischia, and of descending rami of the pubic bones was under 270"; the dis- tance of the tubera ischia was 270"; the external conjugate was 1075". It was therefore evident that the pelvis was transversely contracted. The patient, being much exhausted, was delivered after perforation by the cephalotribe. It was reported that, when a child eleven months old, she had been let fall, so that her sacrum fell upon the edge of a wheel. The woman recovered, but died some weeks later away from hospital, so that the pelvis, which Schatz thinks would have matched Robert’s, was lost. He cites seven other cases, showing that, in all but two, Caesarian section was necessary. (‘ Arch. f. Gynak.,’ 1870.) Dr. Schatz relates a case of transversely contracted pelvis arising from inflammation of the hip-joint. The subject was quite healthy until the age of fourteen, when she had inflammation and abscess of the right hip-joint. Chronic disease persisted for several years. Labour set in on 15th September; breech, assistance required, arms liberated with difficulty, head could not pass; the body was therefore separated in order to perforate the head ; the cephalotribe was then applied, and the head delivered. On removing the placenta a considerable rupture on the left side of the uterus was detected. It was supposed this had been caused by the sharp end of the cervical vertebrae when the head was turned round and drawn down by the cephalotribe. Signs of trau- matic peritonitis followed. A week afterwards a large quantity of pus flowed; suppuration went on for three months, during which time a firm tumour was felt in the left hypogastrium. The pelvis was carefully measured and a figure given. The conjugate diameter is 37o", the transverse is under 3 00"; the right side of the pelvis runs almost straight from the side of the promontory to the symphysis pubis. (‘Arch. f. Gynakol.,’ 1870.) Contraction of the pelvis is elaborately discussed from a practical point by Dr. Marchant (‘Journ. de Med., &c., de Bruxelles,’ 1870-1). When the smallest diameter measures at least ninety millimeters, labour may still be effected, although slowly. He examines the influence of each different presentation of the head in this degree of contraction. He gives cases, amongst them several in which the head, arrested at brim, was brought down by the lever after the manner of Prof. Pabbri. In the second degree, when the smallest diameter measures from seventy to ninety millimeters, where the relations are well determined, it is better not to wait long before giving assistance. It is well, however, to let the head be a little fixed in the brim first. The forceps or lever will overcome arrest generally when there is eighty millimeters. Marchant dwells upon the deviation of the axis of the pelvis caused by the pro- jection ot the sacral promontory, and considers how the necessary back- ward traction by forceps, &c., can be effected. Some have curved the handle ot the forceps again to obviate pressure upon the coccyx. Mar- chant, after Hubert, praises the lever as especially adapted to this case. Ihe lever can be applied over the parietal region, and thus seizes the head in the most compressible direction, when under aid of traction, compression, and expulsion, delivery is accomplished. Herbirniaux* Boddaert, Copp^e, Beytter, and other Belgian authorities are cited as