477 INSANITY. the proportionate increase of the organic constituents over the earthy, and this will partly account for the frequency of fractures among insane patients, and also for the position and form of the fractures, which in every case but one detailed in this memoir occurred in the anterior portion of the ribs, a few inches from the cartilages, and not at the angles, as is generally found to be the case in general hospitals.. The fractures in the insane, too, were generally simply an even division of the bone, without any jagged edge, and not generally projecting through the periosteum. Dr. Sankey takes up the subject in a paper read before the Medico- Psychological Association.* He finds from a review of all the published cases that the existence of most of these fractures has only been dis- covered after death; that the fractures have nearly all been very exten- sive, much more so, in fact, than is usually met with from violent accidents among the sane; that the patients have nearly all been recently admitted into the asylum, and that the subjects have all been males. He then states that paretic patients in a certain stage of their malady are known to be furiously excited. They throw themselves about with reckless violence. They frequently attack the bystanders, and they thus often become engaged in scuffles. They are consequently exposed to all kinds of blows and falls of a purely accidental character. The state of the nervous system is such that the ordinary excited acts are not performed at all, or are not so rapidly executed as to ward off or modify these direct injuries. There is, then, in them such a dulness of sensibility or common sensation that they do not feel the same amount of inconvenience or pain from injuries, so that the effects are masked, and there is nothing to indicate what has taken place nor to note the exact period when the injury occurred. Dr. Sankey further proceeds to give the following aids towards the diagnosis of paresis from insanity proper:—i. In paresis the outbreak is more sudden than in insanity proper. 2. It follows very frequently upon some great mental emotion. 3. It is wholly free from, or is very rarely indeed preceded by, a short stage of melancholic symptoms. 4. The delirium is of a peculiar character in paresis. This peculiar delirium is described. 5. If the patient is very violent, and the disease is a second attack of insanity, the disease is not general paresis. 6. If the disease has been preceded by a long melancholic stage, and has been followed by illusions of any of the special senses, the disease is almost surely not general paresis. * * Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1870, i, p. 202.