91 alcoholism. moid and mitral1 valves thickened; the stomach presented numerous ecchvmoses and small ulcerations, and its mucous membrane, as well as that' of the intestines, was congested; there was also commencing cirrhosis of liver, hypertrophied spleen, and increase m size of the closed follicles of the intestine. The examination of the nervous system showed the meninges of the cerebrum and spine thickened and con- gested, with islets of clear, yellow, purulent matter scattered here and there throughout, from the size of a lentil to a franc-piece, situated apparently between the arachnoid and dura mater, of the consistence of soft false-membrane, and showing under the microscope, fibunous ele- ments and pus globules—general cerebro-spinal meningitis. Prud’homme (ib., 261) publishes a case of the same kind. A notorious drunkard, set. 33, had had frequent fits of delirium tremens ; on admis- sion he stuttered, could not answer, or tell his name, and his hands were affected with alcoholic tremor. He died on the ninth day after- wards, having had delirium and repeated haemoptysis. The autopsy showed tubercular meningitis with circumscribed cerebral softening; miliary tubercles throughout the whole left lung, and, in a less degree, in the upper lobe of the right lung; commencing cirrhosis of liver, and granular kidneys. Magnan and Bouchereau (f Graz. Med. de Paris,’ 1869, 34s) give a case of chronic alcoholism in a man set. 38, accompanied by a subacute attack; epileptiform fits supervened after he had been placed in an asylum, and death occurred from apoplexy. The autopsy showed hae- morrhage with aneurismal dilatation of the vessels of the brain, and the same change in the veins of the retina; new membrane with some effu- sion of blood about the optic commissure; and the other organs in a state of fatty degeneration. Bouchard and Proust (ib., 149) record the autopsy of an alcoholic subject in whom were found fatty liver, with commencing cirrhosis, nephritis, oedema of the lungs, lobular pneumonia, with haemorrhagic spots corresponding to thrombosis of the pulmonary veins ; grey miliary granulations on the peritoneum, with slight adhesions of its two layers. Dupuy (‘ Graz, des Hop.,’ 1869, 89) gives the case of an artisan, aet. 47, who had been in the habit of drinking in the course of the day about ten litres of wine, several cups of coffee, and considerable quan- tities of absinthe, brandy, &c. The symptoms were continued hiccup accompanied with nausea, anorexia, and burning thirst, prostration, anaesthesia, and death from collapse. The autopsy showed serous fluid in the arachnoid, very vascular pia mater with a few adhesions to the cortical substance of the right hemisphere; peri-encephalitis in the Sylvian fissure; anaemia and softening of cerebrum and cerebellum, with atrophy of the convolutions; hyperaemia and oedema of the lungs; hypertrophy and fatty degeneration of the liver and kidneys; greatly dilated stomach. Lasegue “De l’Alcoolisme subaigu,” ‘Arch. Gen. de Med., 1869, 513, 656, ii, 145 ; Bouley, “Alcoolisme aigu, &c.,” ib., i, 628 ; Magnan, “ Sur l’Alcoolisme, avec experi- ences Comparatives sur 1’Action de l’Alcool et de 1’Absinthe,” ‘Gaz. Med.,’ 1869, 482 ; Langlet, “ Conferences Cliniques sur les Maladies Mentales et Nerveuses, &c.,” ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ x869, 310, &c.; Hewitt, “ Delirium Tremens treated by Capsicum, and subse-