480 IIEPOltT ON MATERIA MED1CA, ETC. systems. (2) Non-crystalline chloral and that smelling of chloroform are dangerous and must be rejected. (3) The dose is seventy-six to ninety grains for an adult, and fifteen to thirty grains for a child. (4) On account of their proneness to decomposition, preparations of chloral ought not to be kept long. (5) Chloral hydrate is best administered by the mouth, but the administration by enema is also admissible. (6) Chloral hydrate is contra-indicated in diseases of the heart and brain. (7) The hypnotic action of chloral is founded on its decompo- sition by alkaline solutions (into chloroform, Ed.), and its anaesthetic properties result from] the same cause. (8) It is dangerous to use chloral hydrate for hypodermic injection. (9) The tone of the arteries increases during its use, whilst the frequency of the pulse decreases, but this returns to the normal standard when the patient awakes. (10) As long as sleep continues, the urine gives no reaction for sugar with Eehling’s solution, but on the following day, when the chloral has passed into the urine, this secretion gives a sugar reaction. (11) Adminis- tered by the mouth, chloral hydrate seldom induces vomiting and never diarrhoea. (12) After the use of non-toxic doses the temperature of the body falls slightly. (13) Simultaneously, the perspiration decreases and the skin becomes dry. (14) Chloral hydrate has this advantage over those anaesthetics that are inhaled, that the dose can be exactly apportioned. (15) The action of chloral is identical with that of chloroform, except that it is slower and more enduring. (t6) In cer- tain diseases chloral produces no lasting dangerous psychological symp- toms or excitation of the muscular system. (17) As a rule, the sleep produced by this drug is highly anaesthetic, and is seldom associated with hypersesthesia. (18) The maximum of anaesthesia is produced by doses of thirty to seventy-six grains, according to the age. If it be complete it serves for painless tooth extraction and other operations. (19) Chloral hydrate has this advantage over the opiates, that it in- duces sleep more quickly, and does not destroy the appetite nor pro- duce headache or vomiting, and in large doses it reduces the tempera- ture of the body, instead of, like opiates, raising it. It may likewise be employed almost continuously without losing its hypnotic effects. (20) Chloral hydrate is a sovereign remedy for rheumatic pains, the pains arising from the passage of urinary calculi, from a carious tooth, and from burns. (21) In eclampsia, and for obstetric operations chloral is as useful as chloroform. (22) Lastly, it allays the danger- ous agitations threatening the life of the patient observed in severe cases of chorea. Many clinical observers have noted that chloral is contra-indicated in lung diseases where there is a tendency to dyspnoea. Bromal hydrate.—This substance, which is closely allied in its che- mical composition to chloral hydrate, has been recently employed as a therapeutical agent by Dr. E. Steinander,* and by Mr. Dougall,t oi Glasgow. Bromal hydrate is prepared in a manner analogous to that used for the preparation of chloral hydrate. It has the formula C2HBr30, 2H20. * ‘ Schmidt’s Jalirb.,' 147, p. 26. f ‘ Glasgow Med. Journ.,’ iii, p. 34.