156 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Dieulafoy (‘ Union Med.,’ viii, 133) describes a murmur which Jaccoud, under whose care the patient, a man, set. 3 j, was, put down to pericarditis. It was musical, extremely limited, heard in the fourth left intercostal space at the left margin of the sternum ; its pitch (timbre) was high, increasing with the systole ; it was audible with both sounds, without blowing or friction sound. It entirely disappeared when the patient sat up ; if he reclined a little backwards on two or three pillows it recommenced, and became most intense when the re- cumbent position was complete. He considers that it was due to a false membrane on one layer of the pericardium, set in vibration by friction against the layer opposed to it. A month later the bruit re- mained unchanged. Thompson (‘St. Geo. Hosp. Rep.,’ 1869, 31) found that 43 patients out of 266 suffering from acute rheumatism were attacked with peri- carditis, i. e. 16 per cent. In 34 cases of rheumatic pericarditis the mitral valve alone was affected ; the aortic alone in 10 ; and both valves in 48. In 3 only were the tricuspid valves attacked. The average duration of the stethoscopic signs of the affection was days. Hambursin (‘Presse Med. Beige,’ 1869, 13) gives 4 cases of peri- carditis and organic heart disease, preceded, and, as he thinks, caused by perihepatitis, acute or chronic. The autopsies of two, a boy of 18, and a woman of 28, are given. In both the liver was covered with false membranes, was adherent to the diaphragm, and presented the appear- ances due to cirrhosis, viz. different-sized yellowish granulations separated from one another by increased connective-tissue. The peri- cardium covering the right heart, in relation with the diaphragm, was strongly adherent to both ; the right heart was immensely dilated and hypertrophied; the tricuspid valve shared in the general dilatation and was insufficient. In the second case the right pleura was also adherent both to the diaphragm and to the base of the right lung. The third case is that of a woman, set. 52, in whom a pericarditis or endocarditis followed acute subhepatic peritonitis, the patient more or less recover- ing. The most noticeable fact, as bearing on the paper, is that at each systole of the heart, the skin over the epigastric region was retracted towards the diaphragm, the depression disappearing with the diastole. This was probably due to adhesions uniting the heart and diaphragm. In the fourth case, a man, set. 52, who had suffered from several attacks of hepatitis, the following were made out during life; hypertrophy of the liver and heart, with epigastric pulsation as in the last case; and a blowing systolic bruit most intense at the apex. Crocq also (ib., 25, 3) showed a heart with subacute pericarditis, developed in consequence of a chronic perihepatitis and inflammation of the spleen. Roger (‘ Union Med.,’ viii, 133) publishes a case m which he per- formed paracentesis pericardii on a girl, set. 12 years. As the apex beat was in the fifth intercostal space, just below the nipple, where the opera- tion would usually be performed, a hydrocele trocar, the canula of which was guarded by a piece of gold-beaters’ skin, as for thoracentesis, was plunged, without preliminary incision, into the sixth intercostal space, its point directed from left to right, and a little upwards. The thickened