ItEPOllT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 17G Lepecq de la Cloture, 1765-67; Stoll, 1776-77; and Thomas, of Tours, l°35)> *ie gives ten cases observed by himself in the epidemic which prevailed in the canton of Montargis in 1854. lie discusses its mode of invasion and general symptoms, and considers it to be distinguished from true rheumatism by the absence of pyrexia and sweats, and of the complications on the part of the more important organs. He holds that it bears a very close resemblance to gonorrhoeal rheumatism, except that the latter attacks only one or at most two joints. He sums up his paper with the conclusions that the affection does not occur in all epidemics of dysentery ; that its appearance may depend upon some individual diathesis; that it almost always attacks a number of joints, has a varying duration of some weeks or months, and terminates in the majority of cases in resolution, rarely in suppuration and anchylosis. He believes it to be more rational to explain the metastasis of the affection by “ a morbid affinity which, in cases of affected mucous mem- branes, determines a reflex pathological effect upon other tissues of the economy.” Affections of the Liver. (a) Suppurative hepatitis; abscess.—Behier (‘ Graz, des Hop.,’ 1869, 468) gives the history and autopsy of a man, set. 55, in whom cancer of the stomach had been diagnosed. The lesions after death showed the presence of chronic dysentery and abscess of the liver. The diarrhoea had existed for six months before his admission. Among other cases he mentions two in which suppuration of the liver was accompanied by acute or chronic dysentery in patients who had never been out of France. Boldly acknowledging the error in diagnosis, he insists that even with the most careful observation, after appealing to the severest bedside logic, and with whatever experience a man may have, such mis- takes are possible. Prud’homme (ib., 502) diagnosed abscess of the liver in a corporal, set. 32, who had never been in Africa, but only in the Crimea and at Constantinople for a very short time, and had never had dysentery. By perforation of the diaphragm the abscess opened into the right pleura; thoracentesis was twice performed; before the second operation the thermometer stood at 41^5, the pulse was 120. Injections of carbolic acid were tried, without success, to disinfect the discharge, and of iodine with more avail. The patient succumbed at last to a fresh attack of pleurisy on the left side. The post-mortem appearances were such as might be expected from the course of the case. Gallard (‘Gaz. Hebd.,’ 1869, 604) showed to the Societe Medicale des Hopitaux a patient, set. 44, in whom puncture of the liver for abscess had been successfully performed under the following circum- stancesHe also had never been out of Prance, and had been somewhat intemperate. In October, 1868, he was attacked with dysentery, which became chronic, continuing up to March, 1869, when liver-abscess was diagnosed. There were signs of “tubercles” at the right apex. Punc- ture with an exploratory trocar made in the sixth intercostal space, in