303 IB.A~P1 T> GROWTH OF HARD CANCER. however, call attention to this until a fortnight after her discovery, when the whole gland appeared transformed into a hard, tense, stone- like mass. The nipple was slightly retracted, the skin seemed natural and was nowhere adherent, and the mass moved freely on the muscle below. From the date of its discovery no perceptible alteration was observed in the tumour. The wound of the operation gradually closed. The two upper spots in the skin did not alter, but the surface of the lower one became excoriated, and subsequently a small, superficial ulcer formed on it. Numerous spots came around the wound, and shortly the cervical and axillary glands enlarged. She, however, left the hos- pital at her own desire, and the conclusion of the case was not known. No family history of cancer could be traced in her case. Her own health, previously to the appearance of the first tumour, and, indeed, even subsequently, was very good. “ I am not aware that there is on record a case in which a tumour of cancer, especially of hard cancer, has grown so rapidly as in this instance. I can vouch for the fact that immediately before the operation the opposite breast was carefully examined. It was a small, soft, flaccid gland, with scarcely any fat over it, and nothing in the least degree suspicious could be detected. There is no reason to believe that the woman was in error as to the date at which she discovered the sudden change in it; and, at all events, it is clear that within a month after the operation the entire gland was converted into a uniform, stony mass.” (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ May 7, 1870.) Mr. Bruce has recorded an interesting case of fibro-cellular tumour of the forearm involving the median nerve, in the ‘ Med. Times and Gazette,’ Jan. 2, 1869. Amputation was performed. The patient was a woman, set. 40, who had noticed the tumour for five years, but it had grown much faster for the preceding two months. It was about the size of an orange. Multilocular cystic tumour of the loioer jaw.—A case of removal of a large multilocular cystic tumour of the lower jaw is narrated in the ‘ Med- Times and Gazette,’ July 24, 1869, hy Dr. Beatson, of Nagpore. A woodcut of the patient before operation is given. Navi.—Mr. Furneaux Jordan describes a plan for the removal of nsevi in pieces. A section is made through the thickness of the nsevus from one side to the other, and then the nsevus structure removed with scissors piece by pieee. (‘ Brit. Med. Journal,’ May 29, 1869.) Galvano-pimcture.—Dr. John Duncan writes on this subject He considers galvano-puncture perfectly safe and effectual, but in most cases, not so convenient and expeditious as the ligature. He has treated a large nsevus of the palm of the hand, not admitting of treatment by other means, very successfully, and also one of the cheek. (‘ Edin Med. Journ.,’ March, 1870.) V Carcinoma of the breast.-In the ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ March 12 and 19, 1870, will be found a very able and interesting clinical lecture by Mr. bavory on the treatment of cancer of the breast, especially with