r 4C8 THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. orange-flower water to the tafte ; put in warm water enough to make it as thin as fine pancakes ; mix them very fmooth, and bake them over a ftove; butter the irons when they flick. To clarify Sugar. PUT four quarts of water into a preferving-pan, put into it the white of an egg, whifk it well with a whifk till it is a ftrong froth ; put in twelve pounds of fugar, fet it over a ftove ; when it boils put in a little cold water ; let it boil up three or four times, and continue each time to put in a little cold water till the fcum rifes very thick j take it from the fire, let it fettle, then take off the fcum, run it through a wet nap- kin, and keep it for ufe. If it is not fine when the fcum is taken off, it muft be boiled again before it is ftrained. To boil Sugar to the firft Degree, called Smooth. TAKE the clarified fugar and put it in a preferving-pan ; when it boils dip in the fcummer ; take fome of the fugar offthe fcummer with a finger, put the finger to the thumb ; when it is feparated from the thumb, if it draws out a fine thread, and remains in a drop on the finger, it is a little fmooth 5 by boiling it more, it becomes quite fmooth. The fecond Degree, called Blown Sugar. FOR blown fugar it muft boil longer, and muft alfo be tried by dipping in the fcummer, and when it is taken out, by ibaking oft' the fugar into the pan, blowing it with the mouth ftrongly through the holes ; and if bubbles or bladders blow through it, it is boiled to the degree called blown. The third Degree, called Feathered Sugar ; WHICH is to be proved by dipping in the fcummer ; when 3t has boiled longer, fhake it over the pan, then give it a hid- den jerk 3 if it is enough, the fugar will fly off like feathers. The fourth Degree of boiling, called Crackled Sugar ; WHICH muft boil ftill longer 3 it muft be proved by dip- ping a flick into the fugar, and then into cold water, which ihould ftand near for that purpofe: draw off the fugar from the flick 3 if it is hard, and fnaps in the water, it is enough, if not, it muft boil till it will. The water muft be very cold, or it will not do. The