THE LADY.’s ASSISTANT. 423 Black Currant Giam. LET the currants be very ripe, pick them clean, bruife them ; to one pound of fruit, three quarters of a pound of loaf- fugar $ ftir it together, and boil it half an hour. Currants dried. STONE the currants, tie them in bunches; make a good fyrup, put the currants into it, boil them up, fet them by in the fyrup, take care to keep them under it, and cover what they are fet by in; boil them again, repeat it the next day; then let them ftand in the fyrup covered for a few days ; if there is occafion give them another fcald ; when cold take them out, lift fugar over, and dry them ; when the upper fide is done, turn them,Yift more fugar, fet them again to dry. Ramfon Cheefe. SCALD ripe damfons in as much water as will cover them ; pulp them quick through a cullender whilft they are hot, fcald them as they are pulped ; to one pound of pulp, a quarter of a pound of fugar; wet it juft enough to melt it, before it is put to the pulp ; it mull boil a long time ; have a quick fire, wafte about half, and let it be conftantly ftirred or it will burn; put it into pots ; it is to cut out in flices. Elder Rob. WHEN the elder-berries are ripe pick them clean, put them into a jar ; bake them in a flow oven near two hours, fqueeze out the juice through a coarfe cloth ; boil it over allow fire till very thick, keep it ftirring ; three quarts Ihould be re- duced to near a pint; put it into pots; fet it in the fun for two or three days; lay over it a paper dipped in fweet oil. Bo preferve Eringo-roofs. TAKE fome eringo-roots, and parboil them till tender, peel and wafh them very clean, dry them with a cloth, put them into as much clarified fugar as will cover them ; boil them gent- ly over a ftove till they look clear, and the fyrup is a little.thick; * put them up when half cold. ' A filver fauce-pan is beft to boil them in. • . • Bo preferve green Figs. TAKE the fmall green figs when ripe, flit them on the top, put them into water for ten days ; put into the water as * E e 4 mucfi