THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 357 A French Pie. LAY a puff pafte half an inch thick at the bottom of a deep <3i(h or a mould ; lay forced-meat round the fide of the di(h ; cut fome fweetbreads in pieces, three or four, according to the fize the pie is intended to be ; lay them in firft, then fome ar- tichoke bottoms cut into four pieces each, then fome cocks- combs (or they may be omitted) a few truffles and morells, fome afparagus tops, and frefh mufhrooms, if to be had, yolks of eggs boiled hard, and forced-meat balls ; feafon with pepper and fait; almoft fill the pie with water, cover it, bakp it two hours : when it comes from the oven pour in fome rich veal gravy, thickened with a very little cream and flour. Mutton or Grafs Lamb Pie. TAKE the fat and fkin from a loin, cut it into (leaks, fea- fon them well with pepper and fait; almoft fill the dj(h with water : puff pafte top and bottom. Houfe Lamb Steaks. MAKE a nice pie with the fame ingredients. Venifon Pajiy. BONE a neck and bread of venifon, feafon them well with pepper and fait, put them into a pan, with part of a neck of mutton diced and laid over them, a glafs of red wine; cover them with a coarfe pafte, bake it an hour or two, bake it in a puff-pafte ; add a little more feafoning and the gravy from the meat; let the cruft at the bottom be half an inch thick, the top cruft thicker. If the pafty is to be eat hot, pour a rich gravy into it when it comes from the oven; if cold, that is not neceffary : ornament the lid as it is liked. The bread and fhoulder makes a good pafty : it may be baked in railed cruft. If the meat is not to be very tender, three hours will bake a middle-fized pafty very well, and mere of the flavour of the venifon is retained than if firft baked. A Pork Pie IS made in the fame manner as beef or mutton pie, A Chejhire Pork Pie. SKIN a loin of pork, and cut it into (leaks ; feafon it with fait, nutmeg, and pepper : make a good cruft ; lay a layer of pork, then a layer of pippins pared and cored, and a little fu- 4 a 3 gar,