) % CONTENTS. Page To preferve Red Goofeberries, Damfons, Bullace, Cur- rants, and Oranges, for Tarts 394 Tartlets ibid. Crocants, and Icing for Tarts 395 Cheefecakes. Pafte for Cheefecakes 395 Common and Almond Cheefe- j cakes ibid. Bread and Curd ditto 396 Cheefecakes without Curd ibid. Rice and Citron Cheefecakes ibid. Lemon and Orange ditto ibid. Lemon Cheefecakes after the New England Manner 397 A Cheefe-curd Florentine ibid. Florentine of Oranges and Ap- ples ibid. Cuftards. Boiled Cuftards 397 Lemon and Orange Cuftards 398 Almond and Rice ditto ibid. Baked Cuftard ibid. Cuftard in preferved Oranges ibid. Confectionary. Common and plain Cakes 399 Ordinary light arid Breakfaft Cakes ibid. Common Seed Cake ibid. A better Seed Cake 400 Ditto with Yeaft ibid. A Pound Cake ibid. Common and good Plum Cakes ibid. Fine Plum Cake without Cream or Yeaft. 401 Another fine Plum Cake ibid. Almond Cake ibid. Little Cakes for Tea 402 Heart Cakes ibid. Sponge Bifcuits ibid. Li'.rie hollow Bifcuits ibid. Shrewfbury, Ratafia, and Sugar Cakes 403 Turk’s, and Portugal Cakes ibid. King, and Marlborough ditto ibid. Queen, and little Seed Cakes 404 Light Seed Cakes without Butter •r Milk ibid. Page Dry Cakes 404 Maccaroons, New England Man- ner ibid. Little Plum Cakes 405 Cheltenham Cakes ibid. Bath Buns, and Banbury Cakes ibid. Wetftone Cakes ibid. Wigs, and Gingerbread 406 Ginger Sprigs in the Weft- India Manner ibid. Lemon Cakes, and Savoy Bif- cuits ibid. Naples, Nuns, and Sugar Bif- cuits 407 Sugar Puffs and Wafers ibid. To clarify Sugar to different Heights 40 8 To preferve Green Almond* 409 Almond Loaves ibid. Almonds preferved dry 41® Ditto parched ibid. Chocolate Almonds, and dried Apples ibid. Snow Apples ibid. Black and Green Caps 411 Pippins ftewed with or without Cuftard ibid. Golden Pippins ftewed to look like Apricots ibid. Angelica preferved in Sticks 41* Angelica dried ibid. Ditto preferved in Knots ibid. Pippins preferved for prefent Eating ibid. Golden Pippins preferved in Jelly . . .4^58 Snow Balls, and Pippins diced ibfd. Green Codlins and Pippin Knots. Pippins in Jelly Marmalade of Apples Apricots preferved ripe Green Apricots Apricots preferved whole Apricots in Brandy, or in Jelly Apricot Cakes and Giam Marmalade of Apricots Apricots dried Apricot Chips and Compotes Apricots candied 414 ibid, ibid. .4/5 ibid, ibid. .4/ 6 ibid. Ibid, ibid, 417 ibid* Barben ri*