274 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. into a faucepan, with two quarts of water, an onion ftuck with three or four cloves, two blades of mace, and fome whole pepper ; boil all thefe gently together till half is wafted ; then llrain it off into another faucepan ; draw the woodcocks, and lay the trail in a plate ; put the woodcocks into the gravy, and let them boil for twelve minutes ; while they are doing, chop the trail and liver fmall ; put them into a fmall faucepan, with a little mace, pour on them five or fix fpoonfuls of the gravy the woodcocks are boiled in ; then take th$ crumb of a ftale roll, rub it fine in a difh before the fire ; put to the trail, in the fmall faucepan, half a pint of red port, a piece of butter rolled in flour ; fet all over the fire, and fhake it round till the butter is melted, then put in the crumbs of bread, and {hake the faucepan round; lay the woodcocks in the difh, and pour the fauce over them. To flew Woodcocks. SLIT them, but take nothing out; then fry them in fome melted bacon, juft to make them brown ; put them into a ftew- pan, with fome good gravy, fait, pepper, chives, and the juice of muftirooms, with a little juice of lemon fqueezed into it. To roaft Woodcocks and Snipes. TWENTY minutes will roaft the firft, fifteen minutes the latter ; put under either, while roafting, a toaft, to receive the trail, which lay under them in the difh. For fauce—melted butter and gravy. Woodcocks d-la-Franfoife. WHEN they are picked, draw them and trufs them ; lard their breafts with broad pieces of bacon; roaft them, and ferve them upon tcafts dipped in verjuice. Woodcocks in fur tout. MAKE a forced-meat with fome veal, as much beef-fuet chopped and beat in a mortar, an equal quantity of crumbs of bread, with a little beaten mace, pepper, and fait, fomeparfley, and a few fweet herbs; mix it up with the yolk of an egg ; take the woodcocks and half-roaft them ; lay fome of the for- ced-meat round a fmall baking-dilh ; chop the trail, and throw it all over the difh ; lay the woodcocks hi the difh; take fome o-ood gravv, truffles, morells, and muflrrooms^ parboiled fweet- bread cut Into pieces, fome artichoke-bottoms^ cut into fmall 2 ' pieces; /