164 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. nutes, ferve it directly, or it will grow hard ; garnifh with pickles. A Shoulder of Mutton with Rice. TAKE a fhoulder of mutton and half boil it, then put it in a ftew-pan, with two quarts of mutton-gravy, a quarter of a pound of rice, a tea-fpoonful of mufhroom-powder, with a little beaten mace, and ftew it till the rice is tender; then take up the mutton and keep it hot ; put to the rice half a pint of cream, and a piece of butter rolled in flour ; ftir it well round the pan, and let it boil a few minutes : lay the mutton in the difh, and pour the rice over it. A Shoulder of Mutton in Difguife. LET a fhoulder be half-roafted; then take it up, and cut off the two upper joints, and both the flaps, to make the blade round ; fcore the blade in diamonds; then drew over it a little pepper and fait, fome crumbs of bread, a little grated lemon- peel, and nutmeg ; fet it in the oven to brown ; then cut the meat off the fhank and the flaps in thin flices j put them to the gravy that runs from the mutton, and put a little good- made mutton gravy to it, with two fpoonfuls of walnut ketch- up, one of the colouring, fome chyan pepper, and one or two efchalots cut fmall; the meat muft be done juft tender ; if it is done too much, it will be hard : thicken the fauce with butter rolled in flour, lay the hafh in the difh with the fauce, and the blade-bone in the middle, which muft be of a fine brown ; put dome pickles in the difh. Shoulder of Mutton hafhed. CUT the blade-bone nicely off, fcore it, pepper, fait, and broil it brown ; cut the remainder or fome of the meat into flices; thicken fome good gravy or beef broth; add efchalot chopped, ketchup, chyan, walnut-pickle; boil thefe together ; put in the fliced meat, fhake it up till hot through ; lay the blade-hone on the hafh ; garnifh with pickles. [Shoulder of mutton roUed. See Shoulder of Veal.] ‘To boil Mutton the Turkifh Way. LET the meat be cut in flices, wafh it in vinegar, put it in a pot, with whole pepper, rice, and two or three onions ; flew thefe very flowly, and fkim them very often : when it is tender takeout the onions, and put fippets ill the difh under them. To I