THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 441 t 1 them by degrees, let it fimmer j when it jellies in the fpoon, it is enough. To candy Violets Whole. TAKE fome double violets, and pick off the green ftalks ; boil fome fugar till it blows very flrong, put in the violets, and let them boil till the fugar blows again, then rub the fugar againit the lldes of the pan with a fpoon [till it is white ; ftir all together till the fugar leaves them, and then fift and dry them. To rock-candy Violets. PICK the leaves off the violets; then boil fome of the fineft fugar till it blows very flrong; pour it into a candying-pan made of tin, in the form of a dripping-pan, about three inches deep ; then ftrew the leaves of the flowers as thick on the top as poffible, and put it into a hot ffove for eight or ten days ; when it is hard candied, break a hole in one corner of it, and drain off all the fyrup that will run from it; break it out, and Jay it in heaps on plates to dry in a ftove. Walnuts Preferred. GATHER them before the fhells are hard, pare them fo the white; as faff as they are pared, lay them in warm water; boil them in a good deal of water (changing it) till they are ten- der ; take care the water does not turn colour before it is changed, (it is beft to have two pans upon the fire, that th& walnuts may be changed from the one to the other;) drain them well, lard them with citron ; pour on a hot fyrup, let them fland two days ; repeat this till they are tender enough. One pound and an half of loaf-fugar to one pound of nuts. To preferve Fruit green. TAKE pippins, apricots, pears, plums, or peaches, while they are green ; put them in a preferving-pan, cover them with vine-leaves, and then with fine clear fpring-water ; put on the- cover of the pan, fet them over a very clear fire; when they begin to fimmer, take them off the fire, and carefully with the flice take them out; peel and preferve them as other fruit. To preferve Cochineal. TAKE one ounce of cochineal, and beat it to a fine powder ; then boil it in three quarters of a pint of water, till half is con- fumed ; then beat half an ounce of roche-alum, and the fame quantity*