382 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. little nutmeg, and fugar ; let this ftand fix or eight minutes : drop them with a fpoon into a pan of boiling lard, drain them, grate fugar over them ; eat them with melted butter, wine, and fugar. Plain Fritters. PUT a. pint of boiling cream, or milk, to the crumb of a penny-loaf grated ; mix it very fmooth ; when cold, add the yolks of five eggs, near a quarter of a pound of fifted fugar, fome nutmeg grated ; fry them in hog’s lard ; pour melted but- ter, wine, and l'ugar, into the difh. Currants may be added. Cufiard Fritters, a pretty Difb. BEAT the yolks of eight eggs, with one fpoonful of flour, half a nutmeg, a little fait, and brandy ; add a pint of cream ; fweetenthis, and bake it in a fmall difh; when cold cut it into quarters ; dip them in batter made of half a pint of cream, a quarter of a pint of milk, four eggs, a little flour, a little ginger grated; fry them a light brown, in good lard or dripping : ferve them hot; grate l'ugar over them. Clary Fritters. BEAT two eggs very well, with one fpoonful of brandy, the fame of cream, two fpoonfuls of flour, fome nutmeg, lifted fugar to the tafte ; wafh and dry the clary-leaves, dip them in tfte batter ; fry them in lard : eat them with Seville orange and melted butter. Vine-Leaf Fritters. TAKE a quarter of a pint of brandy, a little white wine, fome rafped lemon-peel, and a fpoonful of powdered fugar; mix thefe well together in a foup-plate, then take fome fmall frefh vine-leaves, cut the ftalks very clofe, and put the leaves into this mixture: mix up fome white wine and flour into a moderate thick batter ; put on a ftew-pan, with a great deal of butter in it; when it is boiling hot drop in the fritters, take a leaf out of the brandy for every fritter: when they are a fine brown, ftrew them with fugar, and glaze them with a fala- mander : fend them up hot. Apple Fritters. PARE fome fmall apples; core and flice them ; make a bat- ter with three eggs, a little grated ginger, near a pint of cream or