|62 THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. a fhect of paper, and lay over it, and another over that, or Tome pafte, and tie it round ; if it is large, it will take two hours and a hall roafting; before it is taken up, take off the paper or pafte, bafte it well with butter, and flour it; let the jack go round very quick, that it may have a good froth. Sauce—gravy and currant-jelly. To fluff a Leg of Mutton with Oyflers. MAKE a forced-meat of beef-fuet chopt fmall, the yolks of eggs boiled hard, with three anchovies, a fmall bit of onion, thyme, favory, and fome oyfters, a dozen or fourteen, all cut fine ; fome fait, pepper, grated nutmeg, and crumbs of bread, mixed up with raw eggs ; ftufF the mutton under the (kin in the thickeft part, under the flap, and at the knuckle. For fauce—fome oyfter-liquor, a little red wine, an anchovy, and fome more oyfters ftewed and laid under the mutton. Another Way. CUT feveral holes in the mutton, beard fome oyfters, and roll them in crumbs of bread and nutmeg; put three oyfters into each hole; if it is roafted, cover it with a caul; but if it is boiled, put it in a cloth, and pour oyfter-fauce all over it. A Leg of Mutton au Hautgout. LET it hang a fortnight in an airy place, ftufF it with gar- lic, and rub it over with pepper and fait, and then roaft it. Sauce—good gravy, with a large fpoonful of red-wine boiled in it. Leg of Mutton a-la-Daube. TAKE a leg of mutton and lard it with bacon, half roaft: it, and then put it in as fmall a pot as will hold it, with a quart of mutton gravy, half a pint of vinegar, fome whole fpice, bay- leaves, fweet- marjoram, winter-favory, and fome green onions ; when it is tender, take it up, and make the fauce with lome of the liquor, mufhrooms, fliced lemon, two anchovies, a fpoonful of colouring, and a piece of butter; pour fome over the mutton, and the reft in a boat. To boil a Leg of Mutton a-la-lore. TAKE a leg of mutton of feven or eight pounds, let it hang as long as it will keep ; beat it flat, and feafon it with pepper, fait, and cloves; fet a pot on the fire with fome parfley at the bottom.