r 414 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. Green Codlins. GATHER them the fize of a large walnut, with a leaf or two on ; put vine-leaves and codlins in layers'into a preferving pan, till the pan is full, then pour in fpring-water ; cover the pan clofe, fet them over a flow fire till they will peel ; when peeled, put them into the fame water, when cold, with more vine-leaves ; green them gently over a flow fire, then drain them on a fieve; boil them gently in good fyrup once a day for three or four days ; fet them by in glafles ; brandy-paper. Vdo make Pippin Knots. TAKE fome pippins and weigh them, then put them into a preferving pan ; to every pound, put four ounces of fugar, and fcarce water enough to cover them ; boil them foft, and pulp them through a fieve ; for every pound of apples put one pound of clarified fugar ; boil it till it almoft cracks, then put in the pafte, and mix it well over a flow fire ; then take it off and pour it on flat pewter plates, or the bottoms of difhes, to the thicknefs of two crowns ; fet them in the Rove for three or four hours, then cut them into narrow flips, and turn them up into knots to what fhape or fize is agreeable ; put them into the ftove to dry, dufting them a little ; turn them and dry them on the other fide, and when thoroughly dry, put them into a box. Pippin Jelly. TAKE the finefl: pippins which can be got, put them into as much water as will cover them ; fet them over a quick fire, and boil them to mafh ; prefs out all the liquor through a fieve, and then ftrain it through a flannel bag; keep it for ufe : when the apples are all to pieces, put in a quart of water more, and let it boil at leaf! half an hour; run it through a jelly-bag, and keep it for ufe. In the fummer codlins are beft; in September and winter golden runnets. If it is to be very ftrong, put to every pint and a half, a quarter of a pound of ifinglafs. Marmalade of Apples. TAKE fome apples and feald them in water; when they are tender, take and drain them through a fieve ; boil fome fugar to the feathered degree, three quarters of a pound of fugar