THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 2-21 a pint of broth, or boiling water, and half a pint of red wine, fome beaten mace, an onion, fome grated nutmeg, and fome fait; cover them clofe, and let them flew five or fix minutes, then put in a dozen of oyfters, with their liquor {trained, and. a piece of butter rolled in flour; fhake the pan round till they are enough, and the fauce of a good thicknefs ; take out the fweet herbs and onion, lay the fi(h in a difh, and pour the fauce over it. It may be done white, by putting in white wine ii^- flead of red. To bake Cod. DRAW a cod at the gills, wafb it well, and dry it, lard it with a fat eel ; then take a pint of oyfters, fome fweet herbs cut fmall, fome grated bread, the yolks of two or three eggs, with fome fait, pepper, cloves, and grated nutmeg; mix thefe ingredients together, fluff the cod at the gills, and lay it in a baking-dilh, but put it upon fomething to keep it hollow from the bottom (there are things made on purpofe) ; put into the difh a pint of red wine, and bafte the cod well with butter be- fore id is put into the oven : when it is done, pour off the li- quor which is under the cod into a faucepan, with fome fhrimps or oyfters, an anchovy wafhed and boned, and a piece of but- ter rolled in flour: let thefe boil together, ftir it one way till of a proper thicknefs. The cod lies beft in the difh with its tail turned in its mouth. A fmall falmon or trout is good baked in this manner. To broil Cod’s Sounds. TAKE out the founds quite whole, and throw them into boiling water a few minutes, then rub them well with fait, to take off the ikin and the black foulnefs; they will look white and delicate : flour them, fprinkle fome pepper and fait op them, and broil them at a good diftance upon a clear briflc fire. Some eat melted butter with them, but anchovy-fauce is pre- ferable. To fricajfee Cod’s Sounds white. CLEAN them in the fame manner as when they are broiled; only put them into a faiicepan, with nutmeg and beaten mace, and a very little water.; pour to them cream enough for fauce, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; fhake the faucepan round till it is of a proper thicknefs; pour it into a difh, and fend it to table.