33* THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. A Cray-Fifh Cullis. TAKE Tome middling cray-fifh, boil them in water, with an onion cut in dices, pepper, fait, and a little thyme and par- fley j when they are done, pick them, lay away the tails, but pound the reft very fine in a mortar with the (hells : when it boils, put in fome fiices of onion, a carrot in dices, and a parfnip ; fhake them round the pan, and then pour in fome boiling-water, fifh-broth, and a bit of toafted bread ; put into it a fprig of l'weet bafil, half a lemon peeled and cut into pieces, and fome fifh cullis ; when it has ftewed fome time, take out the roots, and put in the pounded cray-fifh ; let it ftew gently, and then (train it off. This may be ufed to all forts of difhes where cullis is wanted, in Lent. Another, WHEN the cray-fifh is pounded, put a piece of butter into a ftew-pan, and when it boils, put with the onion, &c. half a pound of veal, and a bit of ham ; let it do gently, and when it (ticks cut it fmall ; then put fome fifh-broth into the ftew-pan; put in fome cloves, lemon pared, fome mufhrooms cut in dices : when it has ftewed fome time, feum off the fat; then take the meat out of the ftew-pan, and put in a very little effence of ham ; then put in the cray-fifh, let it ftew a little, then pour it off. This is ftronger than the other, and will ferve for fcvery thing for which cray-fifh cullis is wanted. Green Cullis for Soups. TAKE fome green peafe, put them into a fmall ftewing- kcttle, with fome good broth ; take a piece of veal, a piece of ham ; and an onion ; cut them into pieces, put them into a ftew-pan, and fet them over a gentle fire.; when they begin to ftick, moiften them with a little broth, and let them ftew gently; then take pardey, chervil, the tops of green onions, and fpinach, of each a handful ; wafh and feald them in boil- ing water ; fqueeze and pound them, then pound the peafe ; and when the meat is ftewed, take it out of the cullis with a feummer; take off the fat; let it be well-flavoured, and mix the peafe and herbs with them; ftrain it off. This cullis is fit for all forts of green foups. A Cullis of Roots. TAKE carrots, parfnips, pardey-roots, and onions ; cut them in fiices, put them into a ftew-pan over the fiie, and in ci it w i