1 THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. 435 fugar between; (in about twelve hours the fugar will be melted^ fet this over the fire, fimmer the chips till dear, (the lefs they boil the better) the next clay heat them, fcrape off the fyrup ; lay them on glaffes : dry them in a moderate oven or (love. T0 make Pomegranate Clear-cakes. DRAW the jelly as for orange clear-cakes, then boil it in the juice of two or three pomegranate-feeds, with the juice of an orange and lemon, the rind of each grated ; then llrain it through a bag; and to every pound of jelly put one pound and a quarter of fugar boiled till it cracks ; to make it a fine red, put in a fpoonful of cochineal, prepared as directed ; then fill the glaffes, and order them as oranges. PLUMS. Greengages Preferved. GATHER them before quite ripe, put them into a pan with vine-leaves between every row, and at the bottom; fill the pan with water, fcald the plums over a very (low fire till they will peel ; peel them with care ; when done, put them into the fame water with more vine-leaves, cover the pan very clofe, let them, green a great height from the fire ; then drain them, pour over them a good fyrup ; the next day boil it up ; put in the plums, give them a boil; repeat this twice a day till they look very clear ; then boil up the fyrup, more if neceffary, or put them into a frdh fyrup when cold : brandy-paper. Greengage sin Brandy; AS the apricots. Compote of Greengages. SET on the fire a preferving-pan of cold water, prick the greengages with a pin, and put them into the water ; let them (land over the fire till they are a little foftened.; then take the pan off the fire, and let them cool in the water; take fome fugar boiled to the feathered degree ; put in the plums, and cover them clofe. ' To dry Greengages. SLIT them down the feam, juft fcald them in a thin fyrup, with vine-leaves at the top : put them by till the next day, keeping them under the fyrup ; than put them into a thick fyrup cold, fcald them gently in this, fet them by, repeat it the next day, till they look clear ; fet them by for a few days ; if there is occafion, boil them once more ; take them from the F f 2 fyrup.