THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. 4fi fmooth, then put in the liquor, keep ftirring it all the time it is pouring in, or it will be in lumps, and then muft be (trained through a fieve ; put in a pint of Madeira, fome chyan pep- per, and fome common pepper and fait, flew it about ten mi- nutes ; then put in the giblets, with the juice of a lemon, and- let them flew a quarter of an hour ; then be ready to put in a few forced-meat balls, and a few egg balls made as follows :—• Boil fome eggs hard, fix or eight, fake out the yolks, and put, them in a mortar, beat them, and then add a fyoO'nful of flour, and the yolk of a raw egg, beat them all together till fmooth, and roll them in little balls, ilmmer them in boiling water, and put them into the tureen to the giblets, juft before they are fent to table. The livers fliould not be done with the gib- lets at firft, but boiled in water,by themfelves, and put in with the giblets juft before they are taken out of the ftew-pan the laft time. DUCK S.- To choofe' Bucks. THE legs of a duck, when frefh killed, are limber ; if it is fat, it is hard and thick on the belly, if it is ftale, the feet are dry and ftiff: the feet of a tame duck are thick, and inclining to a dufky.yellow ; a wild duck has reddifh feet, and fmaller than the tame one. Ducklings fhould be fcalded; ducks picked dry. Tame Duck boiled. 1 • POUR boiling milk and water-over it; let it lie an hour or two; boil it gently in plenty of water full half an hour.—■ Onion faute. , ‘ To boil a Duck a-la-Franf 'oife. TAKE a pint of rich beef gravy, and put into it two dozen of roafted chefnuts peeled, with a few leaves of thyme, two lmall onions, if agreeable, a little whole pepper, and a race of ginger ; then take a fine tame duck, lard it, and half-roaft it; put it into the gravy ; let it flew ten minutes; put in a quar-' ter of a pint of red wine : when the duck is enough take ifi? out, boil up the gravy to a proper thicknefs ; fcum it very clean from the fat, lay the duck in the difh, and pour the fauce over it, r ri Tame