THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 481 When rain-water fubfides, and is well filtered, it becomes perfe&Ly clear and bright. If it be kept in wooden veffels, it contrails a particular fmell, tafte, and colour from the wood. Clean earthen jars are the bell for keeping water. Though leaden cifterns may be uled with fafety, if they be kept clear from vegetable acids ; all of which are found to corrode lead, and to produce a very noxious fait. The veffels in which water is preferved fliould be covered, to prevent any dull: or filth from getting in 3 and the water will be more agreeable, if kept in a cool place. Snow-water. Some of the greateft philofophers and phyficians have differed much in their opinion of fnow-water. Hippocrates, Hoffman, and others, condemn it. But Boerhaave, on the other hand, is laviih in its encomiums. He afferts, that fnow, which is collefted from the tops of high fandy mountains, at a diftance from any towns or houfes, where it has fallen after a long fharp froft, in calm weather, and lies at a confiderable height above the furface of the earth, produces water, “ which is the pureft of all, quite immutable, ca- pable of being kept for many years, and is a lingular remedy for inflamma- tions of the eyes.” Dr. Rotheram having mentioned the efficacy of fnow-water in burns, ani in fertilizing tire ground, relates the following experiment; which, though it may appear of a trivial nature, he veryjuftly remarks, is not below the no- tice of a philofopher. “ Oneeffetf of fnow, of which I do not remember any where to have read, is, that a certain quantity of it, taken up frefh from the ground, and mixed in a flour-pudding, will fupply the place of eggs, and make it equally light. The quantity allotted is two table fpoonfuls, inftead of one egg ; and if this proportion be much exceeded, the pudding will not adhere together, but will fall to pieces in boiling. I affert this from the experience of my own. family j and any one, who choofes to try it, will find it to be a fact. Spring-water. As all our fprings are originally fupplied by rain or melted fnow, and hail, (trained through the pores and cavities of the earth, their waters will vary according to the different foils, or ftrata, through which they pafs. If waters meet with nothing in their fubterraneous'paffages, which will unite with them, or diffolve in them, they iffue out in their greateft purity. Thefprings, which come from gravel, fand, or fome light and porous ftones, are generally the pureft and bell : for the water, being filtered through their finall pores, is cleared from almoft every foreign fubftance or impurity, which it had con- tracted in the air; acquires an agreeable coolnefs, and becomes limpid, bright, and fparkling. But, as there are few foils, which do not contain fome kinds of fait, or other mineral fubftances, which are foluble in water, mod of our fprings are found to partake, in fome meafure, of the nature of the foil through which they pals; and are innocent, falutary, or noxious, in proportion to the quan- tity, kind, or mixture, of the various ingredients of which they are compof- ed ; and the conftitufion of the pcrfon who ufes them ; and fome of them are •f great medicinal efficacy. I i ✓ Stagnant-