THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. 229 To pickle Mackerel. CUT each into four or five pieces; feafon them very high with pepper, nutmeg, pounded cloves, and fait; make little flits with a penknife, put in the feafoning; fry them in oil a good brown, drain them very dry, put them into vinegar. If they are to be kept any time, pour oil on the top. To pot Mackerel. THEY are potted in the fame manner as eels. To bake Mackerel. CUT off the heads ; wafh and dry them in a cloth, cut them open, rub the bone with a little bay-falt beat fine ; take fome mace, black and white pepper, a few cloves, all beat fine; lay them in a long pan, and between every layer of fifh put two or three bay-leaves, cover them with vinegar ; tie writing-pa- per over them firfl, and then thick brown paper doubled; they muft be put into a very flow oven, and will take a long while doing; when they are enough uncover them, let them ftand till they are cold, then pour away all the vinegar they were baked in, cover them with fome more vinegar, and put in an onion ftuck with cloves ; fend them to a very flow oven again, and let them ftand two hours. They will keep a great while. Always take them out with a flice ; the hands will fpoil them.- The great bones taken out are good boiled. To foufe Mackerel. LET them be wafhed and cleaned ; take out the roes, boil them in fait and water; when they are enough, take them out, and lav them in a deep difh ; pour away half the liquor they were boiled in, and add to the reft of the liquor as much vine- gar as will cover them, with two or three bay-leaves. They mould lie two or three days before they are eaten. To dry Mackerel. THEY muft be very frefh.—Gut and wafh them very clean, cut off their heads, fplit them down the back, and lav them quite flat, hang them up by the tails to drain ; this muft be done in a very cool place. Take a pan and ftrew fome fait at the bottom; fpri.ikle the fifh weil .'nth fait, lay tnem in the pan, belly to belly, and back to back ; let them lie in the fait twelve or fourteen hours, then wafh the laic ciean off, and 0*3