17£> THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. ... • r .1 Grafs Lamb to boil. IT fhould be boiled a quarter of an hour to each pound : ferve it with fpinach, carrots, cabbage, or broccoli. Grafs Lamb to rcajl. A LEG of five pounds will take about an hour; other joints in the fame proportion. For fauce—fallad, pickles, broccoli, cauliflower, French beans, peas, potatoes, cucumbers raw or ftewed, or mint fauce. To force a Leg of Lamb. CAREFULLY take out all the meat with a flrarp knife, and leave the ikin whole, and the fat on it: make the lean you cut out into a forcemeat thus : to two pounds of meat add two pounds of beef fuet cut fine, and beat it in a marble mortar till it be very fine; take away all the (kin of the meat and fuet, and then mix it with four fpoonfuls of grated bread, eight or ten cloves, five or fix large blades of mace dried and beaten fine, half a large nutmeg grated, a little pepp r and fait, a little lemon-peel cut fine, a very little thyme, fome parfley, and four eggs. Mix all together, put it into the ikin again juft as it was, in the fame fhape, few it up, roaft it, and bafte it with butter. Cut the loin into ftcaks, and fry it nicely > lay the leg in the difh, and the loin round it, with ftewed cau- liflowers all round upon the loin : pour a pint of good gravy into the difh, and fend it to table. Lamb and Rice. HALF roaft a neck of lamb, take it up, and cut it into fteaks : take half a pound of rice boiled ten minutes in a quart of water, put it into a quart of good gravy, with two or three blades of mace, and a little nutmeg : do it over a ftove or flow fire till the rice begins to be thick; then take it off, ftir in a pound of butter, and when that be quite melted, ftir in the yolks of fix eggs well beaten : then take a difh, and butter it all over; take the fteaks, and put a little pepper and fait all over them ; dip them in a little melted butter, lay them into the difh, pour the gravy that comes out of them over them, and then the rice : beat the yolks of three eggs, and pour all over : fend it to the oven, and bake it better than half an hour, Grafs / '