184 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. Directions to choofe Pigs. TH E fow is preferable to the boar, "the flffh has a better flavour, and is more tender : if it has no difagreeable fmel 1, or green fpots at the belly or tail, it is frefh. ° Short- rn cked pigs are bell 5 but they fhould be dreffcd the day they are killed. ' J 1 A Pig to roafi. FUT into it chopt fage, a piece of butter as big as a wal- ru> and a 1'ttle pepper and fait ; few it up, rub it over with a little fweet oil on a feather, fpit it, and flour it very well all over, keep flouring it till the eyes drop out, or the crackling is hard ; when the pig is of a nice brown, and the fleam draws to the flre, rub it well with a bit of cold butter in a cloth ; cut oft the head, fave the gravy which runs from it; cut off the ears and jaw-bones (which are to be laid at the ends and on the fides of the difh) ; cut the pig down the back quite through, bruift the brains, chop the fage; put thefe to fome rich gravy, and what has been faved in the roafting ; pour fome of this into the difh, the reft in a boat : put a pig-iron againft the middle of the fire while roafting, or it will be apt to burn. Forfauce—good gravy, plain bread fauce, or bread-fauce with currants. % • i L’o bake a Pig. LAY your pig in a difh, flour it well all over, and rub it over with butter ; butter the difh you lay it in, and put it into the oven. When it, be enough, draw it out, and rub it over with a butter cloth; then put it into the oven again till it be dry, and then take it out, and lay it in a difh : cut it up, take a little veal gravy, and takeoff the fat in the difh it was baked in, and there will be fome good gravy at the bottom : put that to it, with a little piece of butter rolled in flour; boii it up, and put it into the difh, with the brains and fage in the belly. Some like a pig to be brought whole to table, in which cafe you are only to put what fauce you like into the difh. Pig drejjed. like Houfe Lamb. TAKE the fore-quarter of a pig, about fix weeks old ; fkin it, and trufs it as a fore-quarter of lamb ; flour it, fprinkle a Jittl$