484 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 4.. Some have objeSted, but probably without rcafon, to this mode of fil- tration, on a prefumption that the fand has the fame effect on the water as the filtering-ftone: for it is faid, that the fand is infenfibly diffolved by the water$ fo that in four or five years it will have loft a fifth part of its weight. M. Amy therefore recommends the filtration of water through a fpunge, more or lefs comprefled. And this, he allures us, will render it, not only more clear, but more wholefome, than either a ftone or fand. 5. As the pureft of all water is obtained by diftillation. Dr. Heberden re- commends this method, as particularly ul’efu! where fuel is cheap and the water is bad ; as it is in fome of our foreign fettlements. The firft running of diftilled water has a difagreeable mufty tafte : on this account, if the ftili hold twenty gallons it will be neceflary to throw away the firft gallon. The reft, though free from this muftinefs, will have a difa- greeable empyreumatic or burnt tafte. This tafte goes off by keeping about a month, by ventilation, in a few minutes, or by boiling the water in an open veflel. Diftilled water muft be kept in perfe&ly clean glafs or ftone bottles, with glafs ftoppers, or metal covers; and then, having in it no principle of corruption, it is incapable of being fpoiled, and will keep juft the fame for ever. But the leaft particle of any animal or vegetable fubftance, will fpoil a great quantity; and therefore the ftili and bottles ftiould be kept wholly for this ufe. This procefs, though certainly attended with many good effefts, requires too much time and attention for common ufe ; and therefoie, in general, it may be fufficient to adopt the mode of filtration, recommended by Dr. Rothe- raip, or that which is propofed by M. Amy. Thefe obfervations are not new, they have been communicated to the pub- lic by others. They are difperfed through many different publications. T have therefore thrown them into a final 1 compafs. And I flatter myfelf, that in a book of Cookery they may be acceptable to the public ; as many of the foregoing articles are of infinite importance to the health, find eonfi** quently to the happineCt, of mahkind. 1 N D E> X,