3i6 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. Another Walnut Ketchup. TAKE a hundred of the largeft nuts fit for pickling, cut them in flices ; put to them a quarter of a pound of efchalots cut through the middle ; put them into a ftone mortar, and heat them fine ; add to them half a pound of fait, a pint and a half of the bell: vinegar ; let them ftand a week in an earthen pan, ftirring them every day ; then put them in a flannel bag, and prels the liquor from them ; add a quarter of a pound of anchovies: boil them up in the liquor, feum it, and run it through a flannel bag, and add to it two nutmegs fiiced, fome mace, and whole pepper : when cold bottle it. White Ketchup. TAKE one quart of white wine, one pint of elder vinegar, and one quart of water, half a pound of anchovies with their pickle, half a pound of horfe-radifh feraped, one ounce of ef- chalots bruifed, one ounce of white pepper bruifed, one ounce of mace, a quarter of an ounce of nutmegs cut in quarters ; boil all together till half is confirmed, then ftrain it off: when it is cold, bottle it for ufe. It is proper for any white fauce, or to put into melted butter. Ketchup of the Shells. IT is a very good way to pour common vinegar upon green walnuts ; let it (land two, three, or four months, as it may be wanted; only, as the vinegar fhrinks, keep filling the jar up ; then take the liquor, and boil it up as before mentioned : the walnuts will bear covering with vinegar three or four times, if done with care. The {hells of green walnuts will do, in fea- fons when there is not a plenty of walnuts. Oyjler Ketchup. BOIL fmall oyfters in their own liquor, till the goodnefs is out ; to every pint of clear liquor put half a pint of red wine, the fame of white ; mace, black, and Jamaica pepper, a quar- ter of an ounce each ; pour it boiling hot on one dozen of ef- chalots, half the rind of a lemon, a piece of horfe-radifh : when cold, mix it with the oyfter-liquor; bottle it, Englijh Ketchup. TAKE a quart of white wine vinegar, put into it ten cloves of garlic, peeled and bruifed ; take alfo a quart of white port, put it on the fire ; and when it boils, put in twelve or fourteen r anchovies