THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. 413 two or three long narrow bits of lemon-peel ; boil the parings in water enough to cover the pippins, {train it, and make it as fweet as fyrup ; ftew them till they are quite tender. A little lemon-juice is an addition. T0 preferve Golden Pippins in Jelly. PARE the pippins, take out all the fpots, make a hole quite through them, then boil them in water a quarter of an hour; drain them, and take as much fugar as will cover them, boil it till it blows very ftrong ; then put in half a pint of pippin jelly, and the juice of three or four lemons ; boil all together, and put the golden pippins to them, then let them all boil together. Snow-balls. PARE and core with a fcoop five large apples, fill them with marmalade ; roll the apples in a cruft, bake them in a tin pan ; when they are taken out of the oven, ice them well, in the fame manner as a cake; fet them to harden at a good diftance from the fire, or in the oven, if it is very flack. For the cruft, put a quarter of a pound of butter into fome water; when it boils, pour it on one pound of flour, with what hot water will make it into a good pafte; work it well. Golden Pippins preferved. BOIL fome pippins in fome water to a mafh, firft pared and fliced ; run the liquor through a jelly-bag; put two pounds of loaf-fugar into a pan, with near one pint of water, boil and fcum it, put in twelve pippins pared, and cored with a fcoop, the peel of an orange cut thin ; let them boil faft, till the fyrup is thick, taking them off when they appear to part, putting them on the fire again when they have ftood a little time ; then putin a pint of the pippin juice, boil them faft till they are clear, then take them out; boil the fyrup as much more as is neceffary, with the juice of a lemon. The orange-peel muft be firft put into v/ater for a day, then boiled, to take out the bittcrnefs. Pippins Jliced. PARE and flice them, make a fyrup, give the pippins a boil with lernon-peel cut in lengths ; the next day boil them till clear; if the fyrup is not thick enough, boil it till it is ; put them by in glaffes, or fmall gallipots; brandy-paper. Green