THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. *4? Veal Collops. CUT them about five inches long, not To broad, and not tob thin ; rub them with eggs, and drew over them fome crumbs of grated bread, parfley chopped, grated lemon-peel, pepper, fait, and nutmeg, with a few leaves of thyme fhred fmall ; fet Jthem before the fire in a difli or Dutch oven ; bafte them ; when a nice brown, turn them ; thicken fome rich gravy with a little Hour; add ketchup, chyari, muihrooms, and hard yolks of eggs^ toil this up, and pour it over them. Scotch Collops. CUT them from the leg ; fry them a good brown, but not too much ; take fome good gravy, thicken it with a little flour4 boil it a few minutes ; add chyan, ketchup, truffles, morells, fait, -mufhrooms pickled, grated lemon-peel ; fimmer this up, juft heat the collops through, add what gravy came from them, but do not let them boil, or they will be hard, which is a great fault; add force-meat balls, hard yolks of eggs ; lay round little fiices of bacon notched and toafted ; fliced le-» mon. Scotch Collops, white. PUT a lump of butter into a ftew-pan, fet it at a diftance over a gentle fire; when the butter is juft melted, lay in the collops, keep turning them till there appears a thickifih gravy ; put this into an earthen pan, put more butter and more col-> lops in the fame manner, till all are done ; then pour the gravy from them into a ftew pan, with a little cream, mixed with a little flour, white pepper, fait, lemon-juice, or pickled mufti- rooms, and a few oyfters; boil this up, put in the collops, heat them through. Forced-meat balls boiled may be added. Veal Cutlets. CUT part of the neck into cutlets; fhorten them, fry them a nice brown ; ftew them in fome good gravy till tender, with a little flour mixed fmooth in it; then add ketchup, chyan, fait, a few truffles and morells, pickled mufhrooms. Forced- meat balls may likewife be added. Cutlets in Ragout. TAKE fome large cutlets from the fillet; beat them flat, and lard them; ftrew over them fome pepper, fait, crumbs of bread, and ftired parfley; then make a ragout of veal fweet- U 2 breads * j — \