420 THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. the fugar is melted, make the cherries again fcalding hot; re- peat this twice, lifting fugar between ; then take them from the fyrup, dry them in the fun, or a very flow oven, laid fingly ; when dry, dip them as quick as poflible into a bafon of cold water, dry them with a cloth then as before; keep them in a dry place. Cherry Marmalade. STONE fome cherries ; to four pounds one quart of red currant-juice; fimmer thefe together till great part of the liquor is wafted ; mafh it, put to it three pounds of fugar made into a fyrup, and boiled candy high ; boil all together till it become*, thick ; when cold, put on brandy-paper. Cherry Giam. STONE fome cherries, boil them well and break them, take them off the fire, let the juice run from them ; to three pounds of cherries, boil together half a pint of red currant- juice, and half a pound of loaf-fugar; put in the cherries as they boil, fift in three quarters of a pound of fugar; boil the cherries very faft for more than half an hour; when cold, put on brandy-paper. Morelia Cherries in Brandy. THEY muft be ripe and quite found ; clip off the end of the ftalks, put to them cold brandy well fweetened. Over all fruit in brandy, tie over a bladder dipped in brandy. To preferve white Citrons. CUT fome white citrons into pieces, put them into fait and water for four or five hours ; take them out and wafh them in clear water, boil them tender, drain them, and put them into as much clarified fugar as will cover them ; let them ftand twenty-four hours, then drain the fyrup and boil it fmooth; when cold put in the citrons ; let them ftand till next day, then boil the fyrup quite fmooth, and pour on the citrons; the day after, boil all together, and put them into a pot to be candied, or into jellies. To make Citrons of green Melons. CUT them longways into quarters, fcrape out the feeds and infide, preferve and candy-them as above, only with this difference, boil them three times in the fyrup. Care muft be . taken