168 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. paper, nor have any fat in the difh, but let them be well drained. Mutton Cutlets. SLICE fome cutlets from the fillet, about an inch thick, and lard them with bacon ; then fry them in butter; when they are of a fine brown, lay them in the difh ; have fome parboiled fweetbreads, fofne pickled mufhrooms, two fpoonfuls of ketch- up, in fome mutton gravy, with a piece of butter rolled in flour; flir it round the pan till it is the thickneis of cream ; lay the cutlets in the difli, and pour the fauce over them. Mutton Collops. TAKE a leg of mutton, which has hung fome time, and cut it in thin collops; take out all the finews, and feafon them with fome fait, pepper, beaten mace, fome fhred parfley, thyme, and two efchalots ; put a large piece of butter in a ftew-pan, 2nd when it is quite hot putin all the collops, and keep ftirring them with a wooden fpoon till they are three parts done ; put in half a pint of ftrong mutton gravy, fome juice of lemon thickened with butter and flour; let them fimmer four or five minutes, not longer, or they will be hard ; lay them in a difh, and pour the fauce over them. Mutton bafhed. PUT an onion into fome gravy, with fome pepper and fait, a little ketchup or walnut-pickle ; thicken this a little with fome flour, boil it a few minutes; take out the onion, put in the mutton cut thin, and any gravy that may have run from it, a little garlic vinegar; jufi iimmer it up, fliaking it till tho- roughly hot, but do not let it boil, for that makes all hafhes hard ; garnifh with pickles. If there is no gravy, boil the mutton bones, with an onion, a clove or two, a bit of lemon- peel, a bunch of fvveet herbs, and a few pepper-corns; ftrain it. To drefs Rumps and Kidneys. TAKE half a dozen rumps, and flew them in fome mutton gravy, more than will cover them ; let them flew gently for half an hour, then take them up, and let them ftand to cool ; put into the gravy a quarter of a pound of boiled rice, an onion ftuck with cloves, and a blade of mace; let it boil till the rice is very thick ; take the rumps, and rub them over with the yolk of an egg well beat, and then in crumbs of bread, a / p little