THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 207 let it boil till the broth is very good ; then fend it to table, with the fowl in the middle. Before it goes to table, the fweet herbs and the onion muft be taken out. This broth is fometimes made with a fheep’s head inftead of beef: the head muft be chopt to pieces. The broth is very good without the fowl. Veal Broth. STEW a knuckle of veal with four or five quarts of water, two ounces of rice or vermicelli, a little fait, and a blade of mace. Mutton Broth. BOIL the fcrag in between three and four quarts of water ; fcum it as foon as it boils, and put to it a carrot, a turnip, a cruft of bread, an onion, a fmall bundle of herbs; let thefe flew ; put in the other part of the neck that it may be boiled tender; when enough, take out the mutton, ftrain the broth ; put in the mutton again, with a few dried marigolds, chives, or young onions, and a little parlley chopped ; boil thefe about a quarter of an hour: the broth and mutton may be ferved to- gether in a tureen; or the meat in a feparate difti: do not fend up the fcrag, unlefs particularly liked. Some do not like herbs; the broth muft then b» ftrained off. Send up mafhed turnips in a little difh. The broth may be thickened either with crumbs of bread, or oatmeal. Another, for fick People. TAKE a pound or two of the chump end of a loin of mut- ton ; take off the fkin and the greateft part of the fat, and all the fuet from the under part; put it into a faucepan, with a quart of foft water to a pound of meat, a little fait and upper cruft of bread, a blade of mace, and a little whole pepper; fcum it very clean, and let it fimmer an hour ; pour the broth clear off, and fend it to table : the mutton will be fit to eat. Sauce —mafhed turnips, but do not boil'them in the broth. Pork Broth. TAKE off the fkin and fat from two pounds of young pork: boil it in a gallon of water, with a turnip, and avery little corn <rf fait; let it boil till it comes to two quarts ; then ftrain it off, and let it ftand till cold : take off the fat, then leave the fettling at the bottom ofithe pan, and drink half a pint in the 9 morning