427 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. Mulberry Syrup. PUT the mulberries into a jug, tie a paper over it, fet it up to the neck in a kettle of water, let it boil; as the liquor rifes from the mulberries pour it off, ftrain it; to one pint of liquor* one pound of lump fugar; put it over a flow fire, boil it gently ; when the thicknefs of treacle, bottle it. To prefsrve Neblarines. SPLIT the ne&arines, and take out the ftones, then put them into clarified fugar ; boil them round till they have well taken the fugar; take off the fcum, cover them with a paper, and fet them by ; the next day boil a little more fugar till it blows very ftrong; put it to the nedtarines, and give them a good boil; take off the fcum, cover them, and put them into the ftove; the next day drain them, and lay them out to dry, firft dulling them a little, then put them into the ftove again. » Green Oranges. SCRAPE the infide clean out, let them lie in cold water three or four days, changing the water each day, then boil them very flowly till the water is bitter; then put them into other boiling-hot water, fet them by; repeat this every day till the bitternefs is quite off: make a rich fyrup of the laft liquor, with Lilbon fugar ; when cold put them in; the next day boil them in the fyrup; repeat it till they are green and tender ; brandy-paper. Whole Oranges carved... CUT the rinds into any fhape with a penknife, put them into fait and water for two days, changing the water ; boil them an hour or more in frelh water and fait ; drain and dry them, put them into a thin fyrup ; let them {land all night ; the next day boil them in it for a few minutes; do this for four days ; let them ftand in ajar for fix or feven weeks (look at them in the time, to fee if they will keep fo long ; if it is necef- fary boil up the fyrup) then put them into a thick fyrup, juft boil the oranges in it: when cold put on brandy-paper, and tie over a bladder. Oranges without carving arc done in the fame manner 5 oqly boil them up at the firft, ai\d make the firft fyrup very thin. Oranges