254 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. fome flour, put to it a little good gravy, ftir it over the fire till brown and thick ; add a little more gfavy, the oyfter-liquor drained, a little white wine ; throw in the oyfters, {hake them round, fimmer them a little. Thirty oyfters make a pretty difli. Oyjiers on Skewers. PUT a bit of butter into a ftew-pan, throw in large oyfters and fome muftnooms, with pepper, fait, pounded cloves, par- fley, and fweet herbs chopped, a duft of flour; ftir thefe about half a minute, then put the oyfters on filver fkewers, a mufh- room between each ; roll them in crumbs of bread; broil them ; put into the ftew-pan a little good gravy, let it be thick and palatable; a little lemon-juice. Serve the oyfters on the {kew- crs ; the fauce in the difh. ■ Oyfters fcclloped. WASH them in their own liquor, ftrain the liquor to them; put fome into fcolloped-{hells, ftrew over them bread-crumbs, with a littje pepper, a bit of butter ; then more oyfters, bread- crumbs, and a bit more butter at the top ; let them into a Dutch oven, let them be a nice brown. • Forced Oyfters in Shells. SCALD the oyfters in their own liquor, chop them ; add parfley and anchovy chopped, crumbs of bread, lemon-peel grated, pepper, fait, nutmeg, a little cream, yolk of egg, a piece of butter, and fome whole oyfters ; fill fome fcolloped-fliells, ftrew over a few crumbs of bread, brown them in a Dutch oven. Oyfters in Shells, another Way. PUT a bit of butter in a ftew-pan, throw in oyfters, chopt mufhrooms, and parfley, grated lemon-peel, pepper, and fait, a littleyoung onion, or efchalot; ftir them about a minute, fill the {hells, put in a bit of butter and the oyfter-liquor; ftrew over crumbs of bread, brown them. T<? fry Oyfters. MAKE a batter with the yolk of one or two eggs, a little nutmeg, fome beaten mace, a little flour, and a little fait; dip in the oyfters, fry them in hog’s lard, a light brown. If agree- able a little parfley may be flrred fine and put into the batter. Oyfters