THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 353 To pickle green Almonds. BOIL vinegar according to the quantity which is to be pickled } put into it fait, mace, ginger, Jamaica and white pepper ; put it into a jar, and let it ftand till it is cold ; then put the almonds to the liquor, and let it cover them : take care to fcum the vinegar before the fpices are put into it. To pickle Rider-buds. TAKE elder-buds when they are the fize of hop-buds, make a ftrong brine of fait and water, and put them in for nine days ; flir it two or three times a day ; put them into a brafs pan, cover them with vine-leaves, and pour the water on them that they came out of; fet them over a flow fire till they are quite green ; then make a pickle for them of allegar *, a little mace, a few efchalots, and fome iliced ginger ; boil them two or three minutes, and pour them upon the buds: tie them down, and keep them in a very dry place. Capers. CAPERS are the flower-buds of a fmall fhrub, preferved in pickle : the tree which bears them is called the caper fhrub or bufh : it is common in the weftern parts of Europe : we have them in fome gardens, but the principal place for pickled ca- pers is at Toulon : we have fome from Lyons, but they are flatter; and lefs firm ; and fome come from Majorca, but they 2re fait and difagreeable: the fineft-flavoured are from Toulon. They gather the buds from the blofToms before they open, then fpread them upon the floor in a room where no fun enters, then let them lie till they begin to wither ; they then throw them into a tub of fharp vinegar; and after three days they add a quantity of bay-lalt: when this is diflolved, they are fit for packing for fale, and are fent to all parts of Europe. The fineft capers are thofe of a moderate fize, firm, and clofe, and fuch as have the pickle highly flavoured : thofe that are ibft, flabby, and half-open, are of little value. • Olives. OLIVES are the fruits of trees, which grow wild in the warmer parts of Europe : we have them in fome of our gar- dens ; but with us they will not ripen to any perfe&ion. I here are three kinds, the Italian, Spaniflh, and French : * Made from four a!e. A a we