THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 179 days ; have ready a pickle of fait and water, with about a pint of malt boiled together; when cold put in the head. Mock Brawn. TAKE two pair of neat’s feet, boil them very tender, and pick the flefh entirely from the bones : take the belly-piece of pork, boil it till it is near enough, then bone it, and roll the meat of the feet up in the pork very tight, then take a ftrong cloth, with fome coarfe tape, and roll it round very tight; tie it up in the cloth, boil it till it is fo tender that a ftraw may be run through it; let it be hung up in a cloth till it is quite cold, after which put it into fome fouling liquor, and keep it for ufe. Soufe for Brawn. TAKE a peck of bran, (even gallons of water, a pound of common fait, a fprig of bay, and a fprig of rofemary ; boil it half an hour, ftrain it off, let it {land till it is cold, then put in the brawn. Excellent Meat of a Hog's Head. BOIL a head out of the pickle [tongue pickle] till it will bone ; take the fkin off whole, chop the meat quick, whilft it is hot, feafon it with black and Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, and a little fait, if neceflary ; prefs it into a pot, the fkin put top and bottom ; put on a weight; turn it out when cold ; put it into a pickle made with the liquor it was boiled in, vinegar, and fait, if neceflary; boil and fcum it: it mull ftand to be cold. Another Way. TAKE a pig’s head out of the red pickle, and boil it till the bones will come out with eafe ; take fome fcalded parfley and fage, with a little all-fpice, the fat and lean of the head (take off the fkin) beat them while hot in a marble mortar, till they are like pafte, and put them while warm into a tin half-melon ; when it is cold turn it out. It eats well, and looks very pretty, ftuck with fprigs of green parfley. A Sea Difh called Chouder. SLICE off the fat part of a belly-piece of pork, and lay it on the bottom of a kettle, flice fome onions, and mix them with all kind of fweet herbs, ftrew them upon the pork ; take a very frefh cod bone and flice it, flour it, and then ftrew over N 2 is