-'(248 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. into the difh. For fauce—take the water the eel was boiled in and the bones of the eel, with the fins, &c. of the other fifh \ put them into a faucepan, with a bunch of fweet herbs, an onion, fume mace, cloves, and white pepper ; let thefe flew’ till reduced to a quarter of a pint; Drain it ; add to it three or four fpoonfuls of fifh-cullis, a few truffles and morells, a few mufh- rooms, two fpoonfuls of ketchup, or half a one of foy, a piece of butter rolled in flour; fealon it with a little fait, andgiveita boil; then take the forced-meat which was left, mix it up with the yolk of an egg into little balls, and fry them : when the fifh is done, lay it in the difh, pour the fauce ov-er it, and lay the balls round. This docs well in a Dutch oven, FLOUNDERS, Fo chocfe Flounders. THEY fnould be ftiff, their eyes bright and full, their bo- dies thick : they are both fea and river fifh ; and fhould, if poflible, be drefled alive. They are in fealon from January to March, and from July to September, i jTio boil Flounders. PUT on a Dew pan, with water fufficient to cover the quan- tity of flounders which are to be dreft; put in fome vinegar and horfe-radifh : when the water boils, put in the fifh, but let them be well cleaned and their fins cut off; do not let them boil too faff, left they break : when they are enough, lay them on a fifh-plate, the tails in the middle. Sauce— parfley and butter. Plaice and dabs are boiled in the fame manner. Fo fry Flounders, Dabs, or Plaice. PUT oil, rendered lard, or dripping, into a frying-pan, fuf- ficient to cover the fifh ; let the fat boil before the fifh is put in ; dry the fifh well with a cloth, and flour it : when fried, Jay it on a coarfe cloth to drain, To flew Flounders, Dabs, or Plaice. CLEAN the flounders, and cut off the fins; put them intoa ftew-pan, with as much water as will cover them ; put to them an anchovy fplit, a blade of mace, fome fait, a fpoonful of le- mon-juice, and an efchalot; let thefe fimmer very flowly till they are enough ; feum them very clean ; lay them to drain in fL difh, but keep them hot $ then Drain off the liquor into the ftew-pan.