THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. i5y fcum as it rifes, let it boil gently; a middling turkey will take about an hour. Boil the balls, lay them round it, with oyfler- i'aucc in the difh, and in a boat. The fluffing may be made without oyflers; or it may be fluffed with forced-meat, or fau- fage-meat, mixed with a few crumbs of bread and yolks of eggs. If oyflers are not to be .had, white celery fauce is very good, or white fauce. To boil a 'Turkey au Bourgeois. LET the turkey be truffed for boiling ; fet on a pot with fome water and fome fait, a large handful of chopt parfley, and four or five pepper-corns; when it boils put in the turkey, and let it boil very gently till it is enough, but be very careful it is not done too much ; when it is near done, fet on a faucepan, with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little water j cut fome parfley very fmall, and put into it a thin flice of garlick, two anchovies, a tea-fpoonful of lemon-peel, cut like dice* a little juice of lemon, and fome fait: let thefe flew together, and then thicken it; take up the turkey, and pour the fauce over it* To Jlew a Turkey. TAKE a pot, large enough to hold a turkey, lay at the bot- tom four fkewers acrofs, and upon thefe lay the turkey; pour in a quart of good veal gravy, and a bunch of celery cut very fmall, with fome beaten mace; let thefe flew as flow as poffible, till the gravy is more than half confumed ; then roll a large piece of butter in flour, and put into the pot ; when it is melt-* ed, put in a glafs of Madeira or white wine: if there is not fauce enough, add a little flrong veal gravy, but then butter mufl be added to make it of a proper thicknefs ; when the tur- key is tender, take it up, and pour the fauce over it—pickled mufhrooms, or oyflers, may be added to the fauce. Turkey Jtewed with Celery. STUFF the turkey as when flewed brown (leaving out the oyflers) or with forced-meat; boil it till near enough, with an. onion, a little whole pepper, a piece of lemon-peel, and a bunch cf fweet herbs in the water ; have fome celery cut into lengths and boiled till near enough ; put them into fome of the liquor the turkey was boiled in ; lay in the turkey, breafl downwards ltew it a quarter of an hour, or till it is done; but do not over- do it: take it up : thicken the fauce with a piece of butter rol- led in flour, and fome good cream ; add fait and chyan. r \ Turkey