# 4i6 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. Apricots in Brandy. GIVE them a little flit at the end (not where theftalk grows) do them as the peaches; but put no kernels. Apricots in Jelly. PARE and {lone the apricots, then feald them a little, and lay them in a preffrving-pan, put in as much clarified fugar as will cover them, and let them juft fimmer ; the next day drain the fyrup and boil it fmooth, put in the apricots ; let them boil, and then take them off; take fome jelly of codlins, with fome apricots boiled in it; when the jelly is of a proper thicknefs, put in the apricots with their fyrup ; boil them all together ; when enough, feurn them and put them into glaffes. Apricot Cakes. SCALD fome apricots, peel, ftone, and bruife them ; wet the fugar with a little water, boil and icum it, put in the apri- cots ; fimmer it gently till it is thickiflb, keep it ftirring; pour it into flat glaffes ; when cold, take out the cakes, dry them in a ftove; to one pound of apricots half a pound of fugar. Apricot Giam. TAKE two pounds of apricots pared, and a pint of codlin jelly, boil them together very faft till the jelly is almoft wafted ; then put to it one pound and a half of fine fugar, boil it very faft till it jellies, then put it into pots or glaffes; froth clear ©f cakes may be made this, and jelly of pippins in the winter. Marmalade of Apricots. PEEL the apricots, cut them very fmall, pound and lift fome loaf fugar ; put them into a preferving-pan ; the fame quantity of fugar as fruit; let them fimmer over a flow fire till they are enough, ftir them all the time ; when they begin to thicken, try the liquor in a fpoon, if it jellies it is done ; put it in pots, and cover it with white paper dipt in brandy ; then tie over it another paper: this is the proper method of cover- ing all wet fweetmeats. T<? dry Apricots. WHEN pared and ftoned, ftrew over them fifted fugar in layers, the next day boil the fyrup, put in the.apricots, and boil them up quick ; repeat this the following day, boiling them till they look clear, and the fyrup thick; take them out, , dry