THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 4;$ The laurus of the ancients, or the bay, is, on the contrary, of a falutary nature, and of ufe in feveral diiorders. The lauro-cerafus is a plant of a very deleterious kind, and, in a large quantity, moft formidably poilonous ; yet, when adminiltered with proper caution, and in l'mall proportion, the leaves of the plant are generally thought not otherwife than innocent ; and therefore, for kitchen purpoies, as the flavouring of cuftards, &c. the ufe, in guarded and common mode- ration, may be continued in perfect fafety. T he bitter parts of the plant, in which alfo the noxious properties are fuppofed to refide, are determined to be the fame in quality, and not fenfibly different in degree, from the bitter almond, and the kernels of any of the ltoned fruits ; and in Holland, Linnaeus mentions, that an infufion of this kind of laurel is ufed in the praCb'ce of the healing art. Miller alfo fays, that laurel-leaves are perfe&ly innocent 5 a nice attention is however certainly neceffary in the ufe of them. The remedy againft the poifonous laurel is from ten to forty drops of fal ammoniac, in a glafs of water, repeated as the fymptoms may require. 2. Small Hemlock, or Fools Parjlcy. Defcription. THE firft leaves are divided into numerous fmall parts, which are of 2 pale green, oval, pointed, and deeply indented. The (talk is flender, round, upright, ftriated, and about a yard high. The flowers are white, growing at the tops of the branches in little umbells. It is an annual plant, common in orchards and kitchen gardens, and flowers in June and July This plant has Seen often miflaken for parfley : and from thence it has received the name of Fools Par/ley. Though it feems not to be of fo virulent a nature as the larger hemlock, yet Boerhaave places it among the vegetable poifons, in his Inftitutes ; and, in his Hillory of Plants, produces an inftance of its pernicious effeCts. It is therefore neceffary to guard againft. it in collecting herbs for fallads, and other purpofes. 3. Mujhrooms. • MUSHROOMS have been long ufed in fauces, in ketchup, and other forms of cookery. They were highly efteemed by the Romans, as they are at prefent by the French, Italians, and other nations. Pliny exclaims againff the luxury of his countrymen in this article.; and wonders what extraordinary pleafure there can be, in eating fuch dangerous food. The ancient writers on the Materia Medica leem to agree, that mufhrooms are in general unwholsfome ; and the moderns, Lemery, Allen, Geoffroy, Boerhaave, Linnaeus, and others, concur in the fame opi- nion. There are numerous inftances upon record of their fatal effeCfs. Aimoft all of them, as the laft-mentioned author affirms, “ are fraught with poifon.” The common efculent kinds, if eaten too freely, frequently bring on heart-burns, fickneffes, vomitings, diarrhoeas, dyfenteries, and other dan- gerous fymptoms It is therefore to be wifhed, that they were banifhetl from the table. But, if the palate muff be indulged in thefe treacherous gratifications, or, as Seneca calls them, this “ voluptuouspoilon,” it is ne- ceffary.