THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 311 bung with a piece of flate, then fet it where the fun may come upon it, for thirty-five or forty days ; by that time it will be fit for ufe. It is very good fined, and kept from growing mufty. Vinegar made of Sugar and Water. TO two quarts of water put one pound of brown fugar, boil and feum it well ; add two quarts of cold water, and work it with a toaft fpread with yeaft ; ftir it nine days fuccefiively, then put it into a calk, and let it ftand from April till Septem- ber in the fun ; the calk not flopped, but covered with a board. White-Wine Vinegar, FILL a calk with good white wine, but do not put in the bung; fet it where the fun may come upon it, or in any other hot place ; in a little time it will be fit for ufe. Vinegar of foul Wine. BOIL it till one-third is wafted ; while it is boiling, take care to feum it very clear; then put it into a calk, and fome chervil with it; flop it clofe, and it will foon be fit for ufe. Vinegar may be made of any fruits, flowers, herbs, or roots, by putting them into the vinegar, and letting them ftand till it fmells or tallies of them. Garlic Vinegar. A quart of vinegar, eight cloves of garlic, two lliced nut- megs, and fixty cloves. Goofeberry Vinegar. BRUISE fome goofeberries that are quite ripe, and to three quarts of water put one of goofeberries ; let it ftand twenty- four hours, then ftrain it through canvafs, and after that through a flannel bag; put one pound of coarfe fugar to every gallon of this liquor; ftir it well together ; put it into a calk, and let it ftand nine or ten months, then it will be fit for ufe. The longer it Hands the better. The water muft be boiled, and ftand till it is cold, before it is mixed with the goofeberries. This is good vinegar for pickling. Raifin Vinegar. TO every two pounds of Malaga raifins put four quarts of fpring water; lay a tile over the bung, and fee it in the fun till it is fit for ufe. A ftone bottle will do as well as a calk. If it is put in tne chimney-corner, and kept there a proper time, it floes as well as if fet in the fun.