jo8 TIIE LADY’s ASSISTANT. Mace and Nutmeg. THESE two fpices are produced from the fame tree, which is large and beautiful ; the leaves are long, and of a fine green ; the flower is like an apple-blofiom ; the fruit is round, and the fize of a middling peach, which it very much refembles. The nutmeg is the kernel, and is covered by the mace. The fruit is cut open, the mace taken off, and that and the nutmeg are dried in a cool, airy place. Some diftinguifh the nutmeg into male and female. The common nutmeg is the female; the other is longer, and Jefs valuable. They are produced from the fame tree, which is not unlike our pear-tree in its manner of growing. Its leaves, •whether green or dried, have, when bruifed, a very agreeable fmell. It grows in the Eaft Indies. The belt mace is foft, oily, and fragrant. The nutmeg fliould be found, hard, and heavy, of a pale colour on the outfide, and finely marbled within. The Dutch fupply us with nutmegs and mace, the whole fpice-trade being in their hands. Cinnamon. CINNAMON is the produce of the ifland of Ceylon. It is the inner bark of a beautiful tree. The leaves are like thofe of a bay-tree; of a fine fpicy tafte, and moft agreeable fmell. The bark, when frefh, has little tafte; its flavour grows higher as it dries. The fincft is in fmall quills, of a bright colour, a ftrong fmell, and a fharp biting tafte. Sometimes they extract an oil from it before it is brought over ; it is then very infipid, and Caftia bark is often amongft it. The tafte is the beft way to judge of its excellence ; that which has loft its oil, is lefs iharp and quick. After holding the Caflia fome time in the mouth, it turns to a kind of jelly. Pepper. THERE are three kinds of pepper ; the black, the white, and the long. The Chyan and Jamaica pepper are not of that kind, though called by that name. There are two forts of white pepper; one is made by fteeping black pepper in fea wa- ter, and then taking off the fkin ; the other is the fruit of a different plant, but very like the black pepper. I hefe are both long trailing plants; they have jointed ftalks, and are Email : the fruit follows them. It is firft: green, then reddilh.