200 THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. ^ome flour mixed fmooth in it ; the yolks of two eggs; keep thefe ftirring over a gentle fire till near boiling ; then add them to the foup, ftirring it as it is poured in, for it is very apt to curdle ; then let all ftew together for an hour, or more : when it is ready to fend to table, throw in forced-meat balls boiled, hard yolks of eggs : when ofF the fire, faueeze in the juice of half a lemon, and half an orange; the balls mull be feafoned as the foup ; the mufhrooms may be omitted. The quantity of foup may be increafed, by adding more broth, with calves feet and ox palates boiled tender and cut into pieces. The Broth for the Mock Turtle Soup. THE calf’s head, when the horny part is taken ofF; fix or feven pounds of beef; a calf’s foot or two ; two carrots, a turnip, two onions, afhank of ham, one head of celery, cloves, whole pepper; a bunch of fweet herbs, a piece of lemon-peel, a few truffles, eight quarts of water; ftew thefe well, ftrain it. Onion Soup. WHEN it is taken off the fire, have ready the yolks of two eggs beat fine, and half a fpoonful of vinegar ; mix it with fome of the foup, and ftir it by degrees into the tureen of foup; it muff be mixed very well, or it will be apt to curdle : it is a gre^t addition, but the foup is very good without it. FISH SOUPS. Stock for brown or white Fiji: Soups. TAKE a pound of fcate, four or five flounders, and two pounds of eels ; cut them into pieces, put to them as much water as will cover them, feafon them with mace, an onion ftuck with cloves, a head of celery, two parfley-roots fliced, fome pepper and fait, a bunch of fweet herbs ; let it fimmer an hour and half, covered down clofe; ftrain it off for ufe: ff it is for brown foup, fry the fifh firft in brown butter, and then do it as before mentioned : it will not keep more than two pr three days. # Eel Soup. TAKE two pounds of eels, put to them two quarts of wa- ter, a cruft of bread, two or three blades of mace, fome whole pepper, an onion, and a bunch of fweet herbs; cover them fjqle, and let them ftew till half the liquor is wafted; ftrain Ui