» 402 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. • rind grated : bake it either in one large pan, or in fmall pans. Little Cakes for Tea. MIX one pound of dried flour, half a pound of fine fugar lifted, one ounce of carraway feeds, a little nutmeg and pound- ed mace; beat the yolks of two eggs with three fpoonfuls of Lack ; put thefe to the reft, with half a pound of butter melted in a little thin cream, or new milk ; work all together, roll it out thin, cut it into cakes with a tin or glafs ; bake them on tins : a little baking does in a flack oven. Heart Cakes. WORK one pound of butter to a cream with the hand, put to it twelve yolks of eggs and fix whites, well beaten, one pound of Lifted fugar, one pound of flour dried, four fpoonfuls of the beft brandy, one pound of currants wafhed and dried before the fire; as the pans are filled, putin two ounces of candied orange and citron ; beat the cakes till they go into the oven : this quantity will fill three dozen of middling pans. Spunge Bifcuits.. BPiAT well the yolks of fix eggs, and the whites of four, to a ftrong froth ; mix them and beat them together; put to them one pound of fifted fugar; have ready a quarter of a pint of water boiling hot, with one good fpoonful of rofe or orange- flower water in it; asJthe eggs and fugar are beat, add the wa- ter by degrees, then fet it over the fire till fcalding hot; take it off", and beat it till almoft cold (a filver or brafs pan is the beft) ; add three quarters of a pound of flour, well dried and fifted, the peel of one lemon, pared very thin, and cut fmall ; bake this in little long pans ; a quick oven, but not too hot, as they are apt to burn ; Lift fugar over before they are fet in. Little hollow Bifcuits. BEAT fix eggs, with one fpoonful of rofe or orange-flower water ; add a full pound of loaf fugar fifted ; mix thefe will; put flour to it that has been dried, till it is of a thicknefs to drop upon ftieets of white paper; drop them juft as they are goino- to be baked ; Lift fugar over through a lawn fieve : the oven°muft be flack; as foon as they are baked, take them whilft hot off the paper; dry them in the oven on a fieve; keep them in boxes, with paper between. l