THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 401 gether the flour, currants, and fugar, what nutmegs, cloves, and mace are liked 5 ftir thefe to the cream ; put in the yeaft. Another good Plumb Cake. BEAT four pounds of butter to a cream, with aftrong lard ; mix with it two pounds of loaf fugar, beaten and fifted very dry ; add to that four pounds of flour, dried and fifted, a pint of brandy, and to each pound of flour eight eggs, the yolks and whites well beat feparately ; mix in the whites, then the yollcs, three pounds of currants wafhed and dried, in three pints of new milk, half a pint of brandy ; mix all well together. A fine Plumb Cake without Cream or Teafl. ONE pound of flour, dry and warm, one pound of fine fu- gar fifted, four pounds of currants, fixteen eggs, half an ounce of pounded mace and cinnamon together, one nutmeg, two pounds of butter well beat; mix the flour and fugar, a hand- ful of one, then of the other ; whifk up the eggs with a gill of warm brandy, as the froth rifes put it to the flour ; add fweet- meats and almonds ; put the currants in warm, juft as the cake., is going: to the oven : bake it two hours and an half. Another very fine Plumb Cake. WASH five pounds of butter in fpring-water, then in rofe- water, till it becomes almoft a cream ; to every pound of butter eight eggs ; beat the yolks and whites feparately, half an hour; five pounds of flour warm and dry, three pounds of fugar fifted and dried, two ounces together of beaten cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, and mace, a pint of brandy; mix the eggs and the brandy in the butter, then the fugar, flour, and fpice ; fix pounds of currants dried, a pound of raifins ftoned, and a little chopped, a pound of almonds blanched and fliced, about two ounces of them bitter; butter the hoop well, add the fruit warm juft as it is going to be filled ; put firft cake, then al- monds and fweetmeats, then cake, and fo on till the hoop is full : bake it three hours. Half the quantity makes a middle-fized cake. Almond Cake. TWO ounces of bitter, one pound of fweet almonds blanch- ed and beat, with a little rofe or orange-flower water, and the white of one egg; half a pound of fifted loaf-fugar, eight yolks, and three whites of eggs, the juice of half a lemon, the D d rinj