THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 329 meat mull be fried as the beef, with fome thin flices of bacon laid under the veal in the ftew-pan. Sour Sauce> with Gravy. PUT fome rich veal gravy, with a little eflence of ham, and a little pepper ; take iorne forrel-leaves, pound them in a marble mortar, and put them into the gravy; give them a boil or two, and then pour it into a fauce boat. A Fijh Gravy. CUT two or three little filh of any kind into fmall pieces, put them into a faucepan, and more than cover them with water ; a bit of toafted bread, a blade of mace, fome lemon- peel, whole pepper, and a bunch of fweet herbs ; fimmer it gently till it is rich and good ; take a little bit of butter, and brown it in a ftew-pan, flour it, and when it is brown, ftrain the gravy into it, and let it boil a few minutes. To make EJfence of Ham. TAKE three or fix pounds of good ham; take ofF all the fkin and fat, and cut the lean into flices about an inch thick; lay them in the bottom of a ftew-pan, with flices of carrots, parfnips, three or fix onions cut in flices ; cover it down very clofe, and fet it over a ftove, or on a very gentle fire; let them flew till they flick to the pan, take care it does not burn ; then pour on fome ftrong veal gravy by degrees, fome frelh mufh- rooms cut in pieces, if to be had, if not, mufhroom powder, fome truffles and morells, fome cloves, fome bafil, parfley, a cruft of bread, and a leek ; cover it down clofe, and let it lim- mer till it is of a good thicknefs and flavour. V\ hen a ham is boiled, if it is not too fait, make ufe of the gravy, and it will do without the ham, only it will not be quite lo high-flavoured. CULLISSES 1 AE.E for thickening all forts of ragouts, and foups, and to give them an agreeable flavour. A Cullts for Ragouts, and almojl all rich Sauces. Two pounds of veal, two ounces of ham, two or three cloves, a little nutmeg, a blade of mace, fome parfley-roots, two carrots cut to pieces, fome cfchalot, two bay-leaves; fet thefe over a ftove in an earthen veflel; let them do very gently for