THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 173 meatballs, morells, and a bit of butter rolled in flour; juft before they are taken up, add a few pickled muftirooms. Fricaffee of Lamb's Stones, brown. THEY may be either houfe or grafs lamb. Skin them, dip them in yolk of egg and flour, fry them ; thicken fome gravy with flour, mufhroom-powder, fait, grated nutmeg, white pepper, grated lemon-peel; boil this up, put in the lamb’s ftones, heat them through ; add forced-meat balls fried, and pickled mufhrooms, or lemon-juice. T0 ragout a Fore Quarter of Houfe Lamb. CUT off the knuckle bone, takeoff the fkin, lard it all over with bacon, and fry it of a nice light brown ; then put it in a ftew-pan, and juft cover it with mutton-gravy, a bunch of fweet herbs, fome pepper, fait, beaten mace, and a little whole pepper; cover it clofe, and let it ftew for half an hour ; pour out the liquor, and take care to keep the lamb hot; ftrain off the gravy, and have ready half a pint of oyfters fried brown, pour all the fat from them, add them to the gravy, with two lpoonfuls of red wine, a few muftirooms, and a bit of butter rolled in flour; boil all together, with the juice of half a le- mon; lay the lamb in the difti, and pour the fauceoverit. L0 force a Hind Quarter of Houfe Lamb. CUT off the (hank, and with a knife raife the thick part of the meat from the bone : make a forced-meat with fome fuet, a fewfcalded oyfters cut fmall, fome grated bread, a little beaten mace, pepper, and fait, mixed up with the yolks of two eggs ; fluff it with this under where the meat is raifed up, and under the kidney : let it be half-roafted, then put it in a large ftew- pan, with a quart of mutton-gravy; cover it, and let it ftew very gently ; when it is enough, take it up and keep it hot, fcum off the fat, and ftrain the gravy ; add to it a glafs of Ma- deira, one fpoonful of walnut ketchup, half a lemon, a little chyan, half a pint of ftewed oyfters, with a piece of butter rolled in flour ; pour it over the lamb. To drefs a Lamb's Head and Purtenance. WASH it very clean ; take the black part from the eyes and the gall from the liver ; lay the head in warm water ; boil the lights, heart, and part of the liver ; chop and flour them, and tofs them up in a faucepan with fome gravy, ketchup, a little * pepper,