THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 437 another boil; fet them in the ftove all night, and the next day drain them and lay them in the ftove, firft dufting fugar over them. Plums in Jelly. WHEN the plums are preferved in their firft fugar, drain them, and ftrain the fugar through a bag; make a jelly of fome ripe plums and codlins, by boiling them in juft as much water as will cover them ; prefs out the juice, and ftrain it; to every pint of juice boil one pound of fugar to blow very ftrong ; put "in the juice, boil it a little, put in the fyrup and plums, give them a good boil all together; take them off, let them fettle a little, take off the fcum, and fill the pots and glaffes ; fcrape fome ginger, and lay it in foak for two or three days, then boil it in fome fyrup, with the greengages or the plums in jelly. It is a great addition to them, and makes them eat very fine. To make Clear-cakes of White Pear Plums. LET the plumbs be very clean, put them in a gallipot, and boil them in a pot of boiling water till they are enough ; then let the clear part run from them, and to every pint of liquor add as much fugar boiled to a candy height ; then take it off, put the liquor to it, ftir it all together till it be thoroughly hot, but not boiled ; then put it in glaffes, and dry them in a ftove with a conftant warm heat. Quinces White in Jelly. SCALD, pare, and core them, cut them into large pieces; allow half a pound of quinces to half a pound of fugar, and half a pint of water; when the fugar is melted, fet them over the fire, boil them quick till they are clear : make a jelly with a pint of codlin-juice and a pound of fugar ; ftrain the quinces from the fyrup, put them into the jelly, boil them one minute, ftir them gently till near cold ; put them into glaffes : brandy-, paper on the top. Whole Quinces Preferved Red. PARE them, put them into a fauce-pan, with the parings at the top, fill it with hard water, cover it clofe, fet it over a gentle fire till they turn reddilh ; let them ftand till cold, put them into a clear thick fyrup, boil them a few minutes; fet them off till quite cold, boil them again in the fame manner; F f 3 the