THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 261 A 'Turkey in Jelly. MAKE a jelly as follows1 alee a fowl, (kin it, and take out all the fat ; take four pounds of leg of veal, without any fat or (kin, put the fowl whole and the veal into a faucepan, but take care it is well tinned ; put to them three quarts of wa- ter ; let the fire be very clear; they mud be well feummed, but do not let them boil, only fimmer very gently ; put in fome white whole pepper, two or three blades of mace, half a nut- meg, and a little lemon-peel ; they muft be fix or feven hours fteyving ; when it is a ftiff jelly, which will be known by trying it in a fpoon, take off all the fat, but take care not to ftir the meat in the faucepan. Some time before it is done, put in a little fait, and fqueeze in the juice of a lemon ; when it is done, ftrain it through a clean fieve, but it muff not be poured quite to the bottom. While the jelly is making, boil the turkey very white, and let it (land till quite cold ; then pour the jelly over it, and let it (land to bh quite cold before it is fenf to ta- ble. This is a good di(h for a cold entertainment. Fowls, or any kind of birds, may be done in this manner. A glazed Turkey. THE turkey muft be young, but not fmall ; when it is picked, drawn, and finged, lay it a little while over a clear charcoal fire, but turn it often ; have ready a ragout of fweet-r breads ; take off the turkey, fplit it down the back, fill it with this ragout, few it up, and lard it with bacon; then lay at the bottom of a deep ftew-pan, firft fome flices of ham, then fome dices of veal, and then fome dices of beef; lay the turkey upon thefe, drew over them fome fweet herbs, and cover them clofe; let thefe (lew over a dow fire; when they are enough, take off the ftew-pan, takeout the turkey, and then pour into the pan a little good broth, ftir it about, and ftrain off the liquor ; ficuni off the fat, fet it over the fire again, and boil it to a jelly ; then put in the turkey, and fet the pan over a gentle fire of a (love; it will be foon well glazed ; then pour into d dilh fome thence of ham, and then put in the turkey. Turkey hajhed. MIX fome flour with a piece of butter, ftir it into fome cream and a little veal gravy till it boils up; cut the turkey in pieces, not too fmall, put it into the fauce,with grated lemon- peel, white pepper, and mace pounded, a little mu(htoom-pow- der or ketchup; fimmer it up. Oyfters may be added. S3 FOWL