THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 235 f CARP. To choofe Carp. THEY fhould, if poflible, be drefled as foon as they are caught; if they are dead, it is moft likely they will be wafted, as they will live a long while out of the water. The beft way to judge of them, is by the fame rules by which other fifh are chofe. To boil Carp. SCALE and draw it, lave the blood ; fet on fome water in a ftew-pan, with vinegar, fait, and horfe-radifh ; when it boils put in the carp ; if it is a good fize, it will take near half an hour ; let it boil gently for fear it fhould break. Sauce—take the blood, with fome red wine, fome good ftrong gravy, an onion or two fhred, a little whole pepper, a blade of mace, a nutmeg quartered ; let all thefe ftew together : thicken the fauce with fome butter rolled in flour ; ferve up the fifti with the fauce poured over it; fqueeze in fome juice of lemon. To rcajl Carp. TV KEN the carp are cleaned, fcaled, he. fcotch them, and wafh them over with the yolk of eggs; then ftrew over them chopped parfley, thyme, pepper, fait, and nutmeg; mix all to- gether ; fpit them on a lark-fpit, or put them into a Dutch oven ; bafte them with red wine mixed with anchovy and but- ter. Sauce—red wine, gravy, anchovy, and the melts of the carps, all together : the roes mull be dipped in yolk of egg, and fried ; lay fried fippets under them. To Jlew Carp brown. PU i into a ftew-pan a quart of good gravy, the blood of the carp (if agreeable), half a pint of fmall beer (but if bitter, only a quarter of a pint) a quarter of a pint of red wine, a large onion, half a dozen cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, and horfe-radifh : let them ftew gently till reduced to the quantity that is wanted : ftrain the liquor; add to it ketchup, lemon- juice, lome of the hard roe bruifed, chyan, a little fait, if ne- ceflary : iimmer this, and if not thick enough, mix a little flour fmooth in fome gravy, and boil it up in it, ftirring it. Let the carp be boiled, and well drained on a cloth ; put it into the fauce ; firnmer it two or three minutes : let the remainder of the