THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 451 put to it the whites of four or five eggs that have been beaten, with a little rofe-water ; mix it a little at a time, beat it till light; heap it on a rich cold cuftard, or on jelly. Blanc Mange of Calf's Feet • a pretty Difh. TAKE two boiled feet, pick out all the black fpots ; fiice them into a ftew-pan, with a quarter of a pint of mountain, rather mere water; let them flew gently; add the yolks of three eggs, beaten and ftrained, with a quarter of a pint of cream, and a very little flour; fweeten with fine fugar; add a little lemon-peel and juice ; ftrain it into a difti ; when juft cold, flick on the top jar raifins fcalded to make them plump, almonds blanched and cut into flips, citron, lemon and orange- peel fliced. It may be put into a bafon ; when cold turn it out; garnifti it in the fame manner ; lay round it a little broken jelly, or any other ornament. Flummery. BOIL one ounce of ifinglafs in a little water, till melted ; pour to it a pint of cream, a bit of lemon-peel, a little brandy, and fugar to the tafte; boil and ftrain it; put it into a mould ; turn it out. Welch Flummery. ONE quart of ftiff hartfhorn jelly, with a little ifinglafs, one pint of cream, fome lemon juice and fugar, a little brandy ; boil this till thick, ftrain it. If agreeable, add three ounces of almonds blanched and beaten, about ten bitter ones. Oatmeal Flummery. BOIL four quarts of water, when it is rather warmer than milk from the cow, put it to twoquartsof oatmeal juft cracked; when it has ftood till four, pour off the water, wafh the flour out well, through a fieve, with three quarts of frefh water; let this ftand twenty-four hours, then pour the water clear off, leaving the thick; to one cup of which, meafure three of milk : let it over the fire, ftirring it; when it begins to curdle put it through a fieve, fet the liquor again on the fire: repeat this, palling it through the fieve fo long as it cur- dles, then boil it for twenty minutes ; put it into cups, firft dipped in water. If the y/ater ftands upon the oatmeal fourteen or twenty G g 2 days.