290 THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. » A Fricajfee of Eggs, with Onions and Mufhrooms. BOIL them hard ; take the yolks out whole, cut the whites in flips, and fome onion and mufhrooms, fry the onion and mufhrooms; throw in the whites, turn them about a little • if any fat, pour it off; flour the onion, &c. put to it a little good gravy, boil this up ; add pepper and fait, and the yolks. Eggs a-la-Tripe. TAKE eight eggs, boil them hard, dip them in cold water, and take off the fhclls ; cut them into four quarters; put a lit- tle butter into a ffew-pan, let it melt, lhake in a little flour ; ifir it with a fpoon, then put in the eggs, throw a little grated nutmeg all over, a little fuet, a great deal of parfley cut fmall ; lhake the pan round, pour in a little cream, turn the pan round carefully that the eggs do not break. When the fauce is thick and fine, take up the eggs, and pour the fauce all over them. Eggs a-la-Mode de Portugal. TAKE a couple of large lemons, ffrain the juice through a fieve into an earthen pipkin, add to this a tea-fpoonful of baf- ket-falt, and two ounces of very fine fugar ; fet it over the fire, and when it boils break into it four eggs; ftir them with a filver fpoon till they will not flick to the faucepan, which is a fign that they are enough ; pour them into a foup plate, and Hrew over them a little very fine fugar; heat a falamander red- hot and hold over them, which will glofs them, and they will jook well. To force Eggs. TAKE two cabbage-lettuces, feald them in water, with a few mufhrooms, parfley, forrel, and chefvil, then chop them very fmall, with the yolks of hard eggs; feafon them with fait and nutmeg, then flew them in butter : when they are enough, put in a little cream, and pour them into the bottom of a difh : take the whites and chop them very fine, with nutmeg, fait, and parfley; lay this round the difh, and a hot falamarider over the difh. Lettuce and Eggs. TAKE two cabbage-lettuces and feald them,flice them, and tofs them in a faucepan with a piece of butter, feafon them with pepper, fait, and a little nutmeg; let them flew half an hour, chop them well together : when they are enough, lay 7 them