246 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. Collared Eels. SLIT them up the back, take out the bones, wafn and dry them well ; ftrew over them fcalded parfley and fage chopped, pepper, and fait ; roll them tight, tie them up in cloths ; boil them in fait and water, with the heads and bones, pepper-corns, ginger, and a little vinegar; boil them till tender; tie the cloths tight, hang them up : when the pickle is cold, put them in. 1 Potted Eels. _ RIP open the eels, bone and cut them into pieces; wafn and dry them very well ; feafon them high with pepper, fait, and nutmeg ; put them into a pot; lay on pieces of butter; bake them ; pour off all the gravy, prefling them hard that none may remain ; pour on clarified butter. To pickle Eels. TAKE fome cels, fkin them, flit them down the belly, take ”out the bones, rub them well all over with common fait; let them lie three days, and turn them every day ; then take them out of the brine, wafh them in water, and wipe them dry with a cloth ; feafon them with nutmeg, cloves, mace, and a bay- leaf ; roll them in a collar, and tie them tight in a cloth ; boil them in an equal quantity of white wine and vinegar : when they are tender, take them out of the liquor, and let them to cool: when they are cold, put them into the fame liquor again; if there is not liquor enough, boil fome more vinegar, white wine, and fpices: fet them upon their ends while they are cool- ing, and they will keep their fhape much better. To fry Lampreys. CUT off the heads, and fave the blood that runs from them ; then wafh them well in warm water, dry them in a cloth, fry them in a little frefh butter till half done ; pour out the fat, and put in a little white wine ; fhake the pan round ; put in a little whole pgppcr, nutmeg, fait, fweet herbs, and a bay- leaf, a few capers, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and the blood; fhake the pan round often, and cover them clofe : when they are done, take them out; ftrain off the fauce ; fqueeze in the juice of a lemon, and pour it over the fifh. To broil Lampreys. WASH them very clean in warm water ; cut them into pieces3 melt fome butter, and roll them in it 3 make a feafoning with