312 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. Vinegar of Rofes. TAKE dried rofes, put them into double glafles, or a ftone bottle; a handful or more to a quart of white-wine vinegar •, fet them in the fun, or by the fire, or in a warm oven, till their virtue is extra&ed ; then ftrain it, and keep it for ufe. Tarragon Vinegar. TO every gallop of ftropg white-wine vinegar put a pound of tarragon leaves, (tripped from the {talks juft as it is going to bloom ; put it with the vinegar into a (tone jug, to foment for a fortnight, then run it through a flannel bag; to every four gallons of vinegar put half an ounce of ifinglafs diflolved in cyder; mix it well with the vinegar : then put it into large bottles, and let it ftand one month tp fine ; then rack it off, and put it into pint bottles for ufe. Elder-flower Vinegar. GATHER the elder-flowers before they are too much blown ; pick them clean from the great ftalks, and dry them in the fun, when it is not too hot; put a handful of them to a quart of the beft white-wine vinegar, and let it ftand twelve or fourteen days ; then ftrain it, and draw it oft', and put it into the vefl'el, but keep a quart out, and make it very hot; put it into the vefl'el to make it ferment; then flop it clofe for ufe, and draw it off when wanted. To make Verjuice. , TAKE fome crabs; when the kernels turn black, lay them in a heap to fweat; then pick them from the ftalks and rotten- pefs, (lamp them to a mail], and prefs the juice through a bag of coarfe hair-cloth ipto a clean vefl'el; it will be fit to ufe ip a month. If it is for white pickles; diftil it in a cold flail. It }s ajfo good to put into fauces where lemon is wanting. Vinegar in Balls. TAKE bramble-berries when half-ripe, dry them, and then beat them to powder ; make it up into balls, with ftrong white- wine vinegar, as big as nuts ; dry them very dry, and keep them in boxes; when it is wanted, take fome wine, or a little ftale beer, difi’olve a ball in it, and it will become ftrong vinegar. Green bramble-berries put iqto good v/ine, will make vine- gar in an hour. truffles.