THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. 139 con, lay the eggs upon the bacon round the vea], and lay crifped parfley between. Knuckle of Veal fluffed and Jlewed. CUT it large, lard the upper fide with bacon ; make a fluff- ing with bread crumbs, fuet chopped, and oyfters, parfley chopped, lemon-peel grated, pepper, fait, nutmeg, and yolk of egg'j fluff it, and Ikewer the fluffing well in, put it into a ftew-pan with as much water as will cover it; flew it till ten- der, boil theliquor till reduced to the quantity that is wanted ; mix fome flour fmooth in fome cream; boil it up in the fauce, with ketchup, fome oyfters, and lemon-juice ; ferve it in a deep difh ; the larding may be omitted. If it is ferved at bottom, fend it to table in a deep difh, with a little fauce poured over it, and lome in boats. Fillet of Veal Jlewed, STUFF it, half-bake it with a little water in the difh, then flew it with the liquor, and fome good gravy, a little Madeira ; when enough, thicken it with flour; add ketchup, chyan, a little fait, juice of orange or lemon ; boil it up. Fillet au Ragout. LARD it, and do it as the breaft, only allow more time, as jt takes longer doing. To fricaffee Veal. PUT your veal into your pan, with a little water, a bundle of fweet herbs, and a blade of mace, and let it flew till it be tender ; then take out the herbs, add a little flour and butter boiled together, to thicken it a little ; then add half a pint of cream, and the yolk of an egg beat very fine ; add fome pickled mufhrooms, but fome frefh mufhrooms fhould be put in firft, if they are to be had : keep ftirring it till it boils, and then add the juice of a lemon. Stir it well to keep it from curd-* jing, then put it into your difh, and garnifh with lemon. Veal a la Bourgeoife. LARD fome pretty thick flices with bacon, and feafon them with pepper, fait, beaten mace, cloves, nutmeg, and chopped parfley ; then cover the ftew-pan with flices of fat bacon, lay the veal upon them, cover it, and fet it over a very flow fire for eight or ten minutes, fo as to be juft hot, and no more;