THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. 309 and of a deep purple when ripe, but grows black and wrinkled when d refling. Pepper is gathered in November ; the white is larger and milder than the black. It comes from" the Eaft Indies. 1 hat which is largeft, and moil: free from duft, is the beft. The long pepper is of the fame nature, but milder. All-fpice. THIS fpice is called Jamaica pepper, from the place of its growth; and all-fpice, from its having the tafte of all other fpices. It is the fruit of a large tree: the leaves are broad ; the flowers are fmall, and grow in bunches; after which comes the fruit, which is gathered when ripe, and dried in the (hade. When it is good, it is large, full, and of a good colour. It is a very good fpice for common ule, but not equal to the others in flavour. 1Turmerick IS the root of a plant of an oblong figure ; it is generally in pieces from half an inch to an inch in length ; and at the utmoft furface, the thicknefs of a man’s little finger : it is very heavy, hard to break, and not eafily cut with a knife : the out- lide is of a fine whitifh grey, with a tinge of faint yellow ; but, when it is broke, the infide is of a fine yellow, if the root is frefh. It grows redder by keeping, till at laft it will become of the colour of faffron in the cake; thrown into water, it foon, gives it a fine yellow tinge. It is eafily powdered in a mortar, and, according to its different age, makes a yellow, an orange- colour, or reddifli powder. It has a kind of aromatic fmell, fomething like ginger; the tafte is acrid, difagreeable, and bitter. It is brought from the Eaft Indies, where they ufe it in fauces and foods. SALTS. THERE are two kinds of fait; the common, and fait- petre. i he firft is made from the fea-water, from falt-fprings, or ehe dug out of the ground. The other is collected from old walls, or the cliffs of rocks, in a rough ftate ; or from certain earth, and afterwards refined. We have the falt-petre rough from the Eaft, and we refine it here. The common fait, of feveral kinds, is dug or made in Europe. Of xhe common lalt there are four different kinds 3 fea fait, X 3 bay