THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 253 Cray-Fifh with white Sauce. WHEN boiled, pick the fhells from the tails, and from the great claws; take off the fmall claws; thicken fome white gravy with cream, flour, and a bit of butter; add pepper and fait/a little chopped parfley ; heat the cray-fifh in this ; ferve it very hot. Only the tails may be done. Cray-Fifh difguifed. WHEN boiled, take the great Ihells from the bodies, and the fhells from the tails, leave the large claws intire on the bo- dies, take off the fmall ones; put into the bottom of a difh. parfley, a little onion, mufhrooms, fweet herbs, all chopped ; place the cray-fifh on this round thedifh, the tails towards the middle, and fo in rows till the difh is covered ; pour in fome good gravy a little thickened, and lemon-juice ; itrew crumbs of bread, pepper, fait, and nutmeg all over the top; heat and brown this in a common or Dutch oven. OYSTERS. To choofe Oyjlers. THE goodnefs of oyfters confifts in their being healthy and properly relifhed; the Pyfleet, Colchefter, and Milford oyfters, are by far the beft ; but the native Milton are reckoned very good, being the whiteft and fattefl : they are known to be alive and vigorous when they clofe faft upon the knife, and let go as foon as they are wounded in the body. They fhould be eat as foon as opened, for they foon become poor and flabby. The rock oyfters are the largeft. Oyfters are very good boiled in the fhells. Oyfters ftewed. WASH them in their own liquor, ftrain them ; put them in- to a fauce-pan, with fome white pepper pounded, a little beaten mace, a little cream, a piece of butter mixed with flour ; flir this till it boils, throw in the oyfters, fimrner them till enough; add fait, if wanted ; toaited fippets round the difh. Oyfier Loaves. STEW them as above ; fill little Dutch loaves with them, A Ragout of Oyjlers. MAKE a batter with two or three eggs, pepper, fait, grated lemon-peel, chopped parfley, a little flour ; dip in the oyfters, fry them, drain them; pour the fat out of the pan, fhake in fome