138 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. ter rolled in flour ; when the veal is enough put it in the difh * garnifh with the balls ftewed, and pour the fauce over it. Breaft of Veal ftewed with Peafe, or cut Afparagus. CUT it into pieces about three inches in fize, fry it nicely : mix a little flour with fome beef broth, an onion, two or three cloves; ftew this fome time, ftrainit; add three pints or two quarts of peafe, or fome heads of afparagus cut like peafe ; put in the meat, let it ftew gently; add pepper and fait. Neck of Veal ftewed with Celery. TAKE the beft end of a neck, put it into a ftew-pan with fome beeft broth or boiling water, fome fait, whole pepper, and cloves tied in a bit of muflin, an onion, a piece of lemon-peel; ftew this till tender ; take out the fpice and peel, put in a little cream and flour mixed, fome celery ready boiled and cut into lengths ; boil it up. Knuckle of Veal ftewed white. LAY at the bottom of the pot or veflel the veal is ftewed in, four wooden fkcwers, put the veal upon them with a cruft of bread, two or three blades of mace, fome whole pepper, a bunch of fweet herbs, a fmall onion ; cover it down clofe, make it boil ; and then let it fimmer till tender. If rice is liked, boil it in water by itfelf till tender; ftewingitwith the veal changes its colour, and makes it look greafy. Knuckle of Veal ftewed brown. TAKE a knuckle of veal, cut it into four pieces, juft fry it to be brown ; then put to it three pints of boiling water, and let it ftew on a very flow fire near three hours ; put with it a bunch of fweet herbs, an anchovy, fome vermicelli and fait, with a little chyan. hen it is done, take it up, and pour the fauce over it. New England way of haftoing a Knuckle of Veal white. BOIL a knuckle of veal till it is tender, then take a little of the liquor it was boiled in, and put it into a ftew-pan with a little milk, a blade of mace, one anchovy, a bit of lemon- peel ; let thcfe fimmer till the anchovy is diftolved ; then ftrain the liquor, and put in a little cream, with a bit of butter rolled in flour ; cut the veal into thin flices, and let them ftew toge- ther till the gravy is of a proper thicknefs, (hake the pan round often ; poach five or fix eggs, and broil fome fmall flices ol ba-