THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 133 tongue, and ftick five or ten cloves into it, if agreeable ; raife the udder, wafh the infide with the yolk, of an egg, ma 'e a good force-meat of veal, and fill it; tie the ends dole toget er and roaft them ; bafte them with red wine and butter : an hour will roaft them. Sauce—good gravy and currant jelly. T0 Jlew an Ox Tongue. PUT it to flew with juft water enough to cover it, let it fimmer two hours ; peel it, and put it into the liquor again, with fome pepper, fait, mace, cloves, and whole pepper, tied in a bit of fine cloth ; a few capers, chopped turnips, and car- rots fiiced, half a pint of beef gravy, a little white wine, and a bunch of fweet herbs ; let it ftew very gently until it is tender, then take out the ipice and fweet herbs, and thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour. Ox Tongues fried. BOIL them till they are tender, cut them into flices, and fea- fon them with a little nutmeg, cinnamon, and fugar; beat the yolk of an egg well, and with a feather rub it over the flices of tongue, adding a little lemon-juice ; make fome butter boiling hot in the frying-pan (which it is when it has done hilling) put in the flices when they are enough. Serve them up with white wine, fugar, and melted butter, well beat in a boat. To marinate Ox Tongues. BOIL them till tender, and peel them; when cold, put them into a vefTel that will hold them at full length ; make a pickle of white wine and white wine vinegar (as much as will fill the veflel) fome nutmegs, ginger flieed, mace, whole cloves, a bunch of fweet herbs, confifting of parfley, fweet marjoram, fage, winter favory, thyme, and bay-leaves ; boil them well, when cold put them to the tongues, with fome fait and flieed lemon ; clofe them up. Serve them in flices in fome of the liquor. They may be larded, if agreeable. To pot Ox Tongue. DO it as for pickling : when it has lain its time, cut off the root, boil it until it will peel ; then feafon it with fait, pepper, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, all beat fine ; rub it well in while it is hot, put it into a pan, pour melted butter over it and fend it to the oven ; an hour will bake it ; then let it fiand to cool, rub a very little more fpice over it, and lay it into the pot it is lobe kept in ; when the butter it was baked in is cold, take it K 3 from