THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 305 drawn, cut them into quarters; and put them into fome white wine; then fet on a ftew-pan, with melted bacon over a brifle fire ; throw in the partridges, turn them two or three times; then pour in a glafs of brandy, and fet them over a flow fire ; when they have ftewed fome time, put in a fewmufhrooms cut in flices, and fome good gravy ; let them fimmer brifkly, and take up the fat as it rifes : when they are done, put in a piece of butter rolled in flour, and fqueeze in the juice of a lemon. Partridges rolled. TAKE young partridges, and lard them with ham and ba- con ; ftrew over them fome pepper and fait, with fome beaten mace, fome (bred lemon-peel, and fweet herbs cut fmall; then take fome thin beef-fteaks, (thete muft be no holes in them ;) ftrew over thefe fome of the feafoning, and then fqueeze on them fome lemon-juice; lay a partridge upon each fteak, and roll it up, tie it round to keep it together, and pepper the out- fide. Set on a ftew-pan with fome flices of bacon, and an onion cut into pieces; lay the partridges carefully in, put to them fome rich gravy, and let them flew gently till they are done ; then take the partridges out of the beef, lay them in a difh, and pour over them fome rich eflence of ham. PHEASANTS. To choofe Pheafants. THEY are of the Englifti cock and hen kind, very beauti- ful, and of a fine flavour : the hen is much valued when with egg : the cock has fpurs, the hen has not: if the cock pheafant is young, the fpurs fhould be fhort and blunt; or round ; if they are long and fharp, he is old. Examine the hen at the vent ; if that is open and green, it is a fign fhe is ftale ; if {he is with egg, it will be foft; if they are ftale, and are rubbed hard with the finger, the fkin will peel. To roajl Pheafants. THEY muft be kept at a diftance from the fire ; flour them, and bafte them often with butter; half an hour will roaft them at a good fire. For fauce—gravy and bread fauce. When they are roafted, ftick fome feathers on the tail* Pheafants may be larded. To X