346 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. pour oil on the top : they fhould be put into fmall gaffes as they do flot keep well after they are opened. I always have them look as white as poflible done in this manner, and keen the year round. ^ N. B. Some boil them in milk, which is a very good way. Walnuts. PUT a hundred of large double nuts into a ftone jar ; take four ounces of black pepper, one ounce of Jamaica pepper, two ounces of ginger, one ounce of cloves, one pint ofmuftard- feed, a head or two of garlic, four handfuls of fait ; bruife the fpice and the muftard-feed, and boil them in vinegar fufficient to cover the nuts ; when cold put it to them : two days after boil up the pickle; pour it to the nuts immediately; cover them clofe: repeat it three days. Another Way. TO a hundred of walnuts put half a pound of whole black pepper, a quarter of a pound of race ginger diced thin, half a pound of flour of muftard, a handful of the tops of garlic ; fill the jar with vinegar; cover it clofe with a bladder: as the vinegar waftes fill up the jar. N. B. According to the firfl: receipt, they are not fit to eat under fix or eight months: to the latter (which is the beft) twelve months : but they are then exceedingly good, and never turn either black or foft, which they always do when done firfl in fait and water. To pickle Walnuts to look Green. TAKE the largell double walnuts, pare them very thin, and put them into a tub of fpring water as they are pared, put to them, if two or three hundred of nuts, a pound of bay-falt ; leave them in the water four-arid-twenty hours, then put them into a flone jar, a layer of vine-leaves and a layer of walnuts ; fill it up with cold vinegar, and when they have flood all night, pour the vinegar from them into a copper, with a good quan- tity of bay-falt, fet it upon the fire aiWUet it boil, then pour it hot on the nuts; tie them ovet with a woollen cloth, and let them ftand a week, then pour that pickle from them, rub the nuts clean with a piece of flannel, and put them again into the jar with vine-leaves as before mentioned ; boil frefh vinegar ; to every gallon of vinegar, four or five pieces of ginger, a quar- ter of an ounce of cloves, a nutmeg fliced, a quarter of an ounce