462 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. Mead JVine, an excellent Receipt, from a Lady. TO one hundred and twenty gallons of pure water (the fofter the better) I put fifteen gallons of clarified honey; when the honey is well mixed with the water, I fill my copper (the fame I ufe for brewing) which holds only fixty gallons, and boil it, till it is reduced about a fourth part; I then draw it off, and boil the remainder of the liquor in the fame manner. When this laft is about a fourth part wafted, I fill up the cop- per with fome of that which was firft boiled; and continue boiling it and filling it up, till the copper contains the whole of the liquor, or mull; by which time it is of courfe half evaporated. I mull obferve, that, in boiling, I never take off the fcum ; but, on the contrary, have it well mixed with the liquor whilft boiling, by means of a jet; when this is done, I draw it off into under-backs, by a cock at the bottom of the copper, where I let it remain till it is only as warm as new milk. At this time I turn it up, and fuffier it to ferment in the veflel, where it will form a thick head. As foon as it has done working, I flop it down very clofe, in order to keep the air from it as much as poftible. 1 keep this, as well as all my mead, in a cellar or vault I have for the purpofe, being very deep and cool ; and the door fhuts fo clofe, as to keep out, in a manner, all the outward air; fo that the liquor is always in the fame temperature, being not at all affe£ted by change of weather ; and to this I attribute, in a great meafure, the good- nefs of my mead. Another proportion I have of making mead, is to allow eighty pounds of purified honey to one hundred and twenty gallons of foft water, which I manage in the making, in all refpe&s, like that firft above mentioned ; and it proves very pleafant, good, light drinking, and is by many preferred to the other, which is much richer, and has a fuller flavour; but at the fame time it is more inebriating, and apt to make the head ach, if drank in too large quantities; there- fore, upon the whole, I imagine the laft to be the proportion that makes the wholefomeft liquor for common drink; the other being rather, when properly preferved, a rich cordial, fomething like fine old Malaga, which, when in perfe&ion, is efteemed the beft of the Spanifh wines. I chufe, in general, to have this liquor pure and genuine, though many love it beft when it has an aromatic flavour—fuch mix elder, rofe- mary, and marjoram flowers with it; and ufe cinnamon, cloves, ginger, pepper, and cardamoms, in various propor- tions.