134 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. from the gravy, clarify, and pour it over the tongue; if there is not enough to cover it, add more. Partridges, pigeons, or any other birds may be laid on each fide ; the butter muft be an inch higher than the tongue. Ox Palates Jlewed. CLEAN four or five palates, put them into an earthen pan with water to cover them : tie them down, bake them (or boil them); when tender, peel them, cut them into pieces, flour them ; put them into fome good gravy, with an onion, a little pounded cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, and fome ketchup ; flew them half an hour, take out the peel and onion ; add fome mo- rells, forced-meat balls, and lemon-juice, and, if to be had, artichoke bottoms boiled and quartered. Garnifh with lemon fliced, or the peel cut like ftraws. To rcajl Ox Palates. BOIL them till they are tender, blanch them, cut them into flices two or three inches long : take feme pigeons, and fmall chickens no bigger than pigeons, draw, trufs, and fill them with force-meat, let half of them be neatly larded, fpit them on a bird-fpit, as follows : a bird, a palate, a fage leaf, and apiece of bacon; have ready two fweetbreads cut in pieces, fome ar- tichoke bottoms cut in pieces, and fome oyfters, with fome blanched cock’s-combs, all fried, rub the difh (if agreeable) with fome efchalots, lay the chickens, pigeons, and what is roafted, in the middle, and lay^the other things round them. Make the fauce for them as follows r-A quarter of a pint of red-wine, a pint of gravy, the liquor of the oyfters, an ancho- vy, a little lemon-juice, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; when it is boiled the thicknefs of cream, pour it over the par lates into the difli. Ox Palates pickled. WASH the palates clean with fait and water, then put them to boil in fome more fait and water, feum them very clean ; let them fimmer four or five hours, and feafon them with pep- per, cloves, and mace ; when they are tender, cut them into pieces and let them cool. Make a pickle of half white wine and half vinegar, boil it, and put in the fpice that was boiled with the palates; add fix or feven bay-leaves and fome frefh fpice ; when both are cold, put them together, and keep them for ufe. L c