21$ THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. To boil Sturgeon. TAKE a piece of fturgeon, let it be well cleaned, then put k into a veflel with two quarts of water, a pint of vinegar, a ftick of horfe-radilh cut into pieces, two or three bay-leaves, fome lemon. Tome whole pepper, and a little fait: let the filh boil foftly in this liquor till it is enough. Sauce—diflblve an anchovy in a very little water, and ftrain it j then put in a very large piece of butter (near a pound) roll it in flour, and melt it very Imooth ; then add the body of a crab or lobfter bruifed, two fpoonfuls of ketchup, the fame of white wine, and fome fhrimps : boil all together ; fqueeze in fome lemon and horfe-radifh ; pour fome of the fauce over the fturgeon, ' the reft in fauce-boats. To roafi Sturgeon. TAKE a piece of frelh fturgeon, let it weigh about nine or ten pounds, put it in fait and water for eight hours, do not fcale it; fpit it, and bafte it well with butter a quarter of an hour ; then ftrew over it fome crumbs of bread, flour, nutmeg, pepper, fait, a little pounded mace, and fweet herbs dried; mix all together, and continue bailing with the butter, and brew- ing the feafoning over it till it is enough. Make the fauce for it as follows :—Take a pint of fmall gravy, fome horfe-radilh, lemon-peel, fome whole pepper, mace, a bunch of fweet herbs, an onion ftuck with cloves, an anchovy diflolved and ftrained, half a pint of white wine ; fet it on the fire to boil a quarter of an hour; then take a pint of oyftcrs, beard them, and ftew them in their own liquor; put fome of the liquor to the fauce, roll a piece of butter in flour, and thicken it, ftrain off" the gravy to the butter and oyfters; lhake the faucepan round, and let it boil: put the fturgeon in a difh, and pour the fauce over it. To foufe Sturgeon. TAKE a fturgeon, draw it, and divide it down the back in equal fides, and then into pieces; put it into a tub with wa- ter and fait, walh and cleanfe it well ; bind it up with tape or bafs, and boil it in vinegar, water, and fait; take care not to boil it too tender when it is enough, lay it to cool; then pack it up clofe with the liquor it was boiled in. A Pickle