. . v " » • pepper I 216 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. melted butter, with Tome red wine boiled in it, and the juice of a lemon. To drefs pickled Salmon. TAKE a piece of pickled lalmon, lay it in pump-water all night, then jay it on a fifh-plate, and put it in a ftew-pan j put to it three fpoonfuls of vinegar, a little mace, fome whole pepper tied In a bit of muflin, a whole onion, a nutmeg bruif- cd, a pint of white wine, a bunch of fweet herbs, fome parfley, jome lemon-peel, and a quarter of a pound of frefh butter rolled in flour ; let thefe be covered very clofe, and fimmer over a gentle fire near a quarter of an hour; then take up the fialmon, lay it in a difh, keep it hot before the fire; let the fauce boil till it is of a proper thicknefs ; take out the fpice, onion, and fweet herbs, and pour it over the fifh. A jole of falmon does well this way. To pot Salmon. TAKE a falmon tfaat is quite frefh, fcale, wafh, and dry it well, flit it up the back, and takeout the bone; mix fome grated nutmeg, mace, pepper, and fait, and drew over the fiflh ; let it lie for two or three hours, then lay it into a large pot, and put to it half a pound of butter; put it in an oven, and let it bake an hour : when it is done, lay it on fomething •flat, thaf oil rnay run from it; then cut if to the fize of the pots it is to be put in ; lay the pieces in layers till the pots arb filled, with the fkin uppcrmoft ; put a board oyer it, lay on a weight to prefs it till cold ; then take the board and weight off, and pour over it clarified butter : it may be fent to table in pieces, or cut’into flicks.' I * • ' ‘ * T0 drefs dried Salmon. LAY it in foak for two or three hours, then lay it on thq gridiron, and fhake a little pepper over it. To collar Salmon. TAKE a fide of falmon, cut off a handful of the tail, waffi your large piece very well, dry it with a clean cloth, wafli it over with the yolks of eggs, and then make forced-meat with what you cut off the tail ; but take off the fkin, and put to it a handful of parboiled oyfters, a tail or two of lobfters, the yolks of three or four eggs boiled hard, fix anchovies, a handful of fweet herbs chopped fmall, a little fait, cloves, mace, nutmeg,