5©* THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. HARE and LEVERET. IN the choice of a hare, both the age and frefhnefs are to be confidered ; if the claws are blunt and rugged, the ears dry and tough, and the cleft wide and large, it is old; if, on the contrary, the claws are fmooth and fharp, the ears tear eafily, and the cleft in the lip not much fpread, it is young. If frelh and newly killed, the body will be ftiff, and the flefh pale; if the flefh is turning black, and the body limber, it is not new. But a hare is never bad till it fmells. To know a real leveret: there fhould be a knob or fmall bone near the foot, on its fore leg ; if not, it muft be a hare. To roaft a Hare. STUFF it with a pudding made of bread-crumbs, chopped fuet, the liver parboiled and bruifed, lemon-peel grated, flared parlley, and fweet herbs, pepper, fait, nutmeg, the yolks of two eggs ; few up the hare ; put a quart of fmall beer into the dripping-pan,[or three pints, according to the fize of the hare ; bafte it with this till the whole is ufed, then flour the hare and bafte it with butter; fend it to table with a fine froth. I have tried all the different things recommended to bafte a hare with, and never found any thing fo good as fmall beer. A fmall hare will take an hour and a half, a large hare two hours. For £iuce—gravy, melted butter, and fweet fauce. To drefs a Hare. WHEN the hare is cafed, cut it in two juft below the ribs ; cut the fore-quarters into pieces, and put them into a clean ftew-pan, with a blade or two of mace, an onion ftuck with cloves, fome whole pepper, an anchovy, and a bunch of fweet herbs ; cover them with water, and let them ftew gently ; make a pudding, and put into the belly of the other part; lard and roaft it, flour and bafte it well with butter or fmall beer : when the ftew is tender, take it out with a fork into a difh, and ftrain off the liquor ; put into it a glafs of red wine, a fpoonful of good ketchup, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; ffiake all together over the fire till it is of a good thicknefs : take up the roaft hare, and lay it in the middle of the difh, with the ftew round, and fauce poured over it.—Some good gravy in a boat* Another