THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 267 quite cold, fet the bowl in warm water juft to loofen the jelly, turn it out. Put the chicken into the jelly the day before it is wanted. , ' To drefs Chickens after the Scotch Manner. SINGE the chickens, wafh, and then dry them in a clean cloth, cut them into quarters, put them into a faucepan, with, juft water enough to cover them ; put in a little bunch of par- fley, a little chopt parfley, and a blade or two of mace, cover them clofe down ; beat up five or fix eggs with the whites, and when the liquor boils, pour the eggs into it; when the chickens are enough, take out the bunch of parfley, and fend them to table with the liquor in a deep difh ; they muft be well fkim- med while they are doing. Cocks-combs preferved. CLEAN them well, and put them in a pot with fome melted bacon, half an hour after add to them an onion ftuck with cloves, a little vinegar, fome pepper, fome bay-falt, and a le- mon fliced; when the bacon flicks to the pot, put them into the pan they are to be kept in ; put a piece of linen cloth over them, and over that pour clarified butter to keep them from the airj this is proper to be done in a place where a quantity are not eafily got : they make a pretty little difh for the corner of a table. ' *r Cocks-combs forced. HALF boil the cocks-combs, and open them with the point of a knife at the great end, then take the white of a middling fowl, as much beef marrow and bacon cut fmall, and beat fin£ in a marble mortar, feafoned with, grated nutmeg, fait, and pepper, mixed up with the yolk of an egg well .beat up ; fill the cocks-combs, and ftew them gently in fome rich gravy for half an hour ; beat up the yolk of an egg in a little gravy, and ftir it well in, and feafon it with fait ; add fome frefh and pickled mufhrooms. Livers cm Ragout. TAKE the liver of a turkey, and the livers of fix fowls, clean them, and take particular care not to break the galls, for if they are bitter the difh will be fpoiled ; throw them into cold fpring water, and then put the livers of the fowls into afauce- pan, with rather more than a quarter pint of gravy, a fpoonful