THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 459 as before ; let it ftand, and then add the whole quantity of water, as the liquor is intended to be ftrong or weak ; mafh it well, cover it, and let it ftand for two or three hours, more or lefs, according to the ftrength of the wort, or difference of the weather; then let it run into the receiver; and mafh again for the fecond wort, in'the fame manner as for the firft, only the water muft be cooler, and it muft not ftand above half the time. The two worts being mixed together, the quantity of hops that is deflgned may be added, and the liquor put into the copper, which being clofely covered up, let it boil gently for the fpace of an hour or two ; then let the liquor into the receiver, and the hops ftrained from it into the coolers. When cool, the barm or yeaft is applied, which done, it is left to work or ferment till is is fit to tun up. For fmall beer, there muft be a third mafhing ; the water muft: be near cold, and not to ftand above three quarters of an hour; to be hopped and boiled at difcretion. For double ale or beer, the two liquors coming from the two firft mafhings muft be ufed as liquor for a third mafhing of frefh malt. For fine ale^ the liquor thus brewed is farther prepared with molaftes, inftead of yeaft or barm ; fome ufe Caftile foap, others an eflential oil of barley, others a quinteffence of malt, others of wine, and others the fal panariltus. For middling ale, a quarter of malt will make an hogfliead, and one of fmall beer; or it will make three hogfheads of good fmall beer, allowing eight pounds of hops; this will keep all the year ; or it will make twenty gallons of ftrong ale, and two hogfheads of fmall beer that will keep all the year. If the ale is to keep a great while, allow a pound of hops to every bufhel of malt; if to keep fix months, five pounds to a hogfhead, and the fofteft and cleareft water that can be got. For ftrong October, five quarters of malt to three hogfheads, and twenty-four pounds of hops; this will afterwards make two hogfheads of good keeping fmall beer, allowing five pounds of hops to it. In managing the veflels for the prefervation of beer, they muft not be at one time fcalded and at another wafhed with cold water: fome rub them with hop-leaves that come from the wort, and then rinfe them again ; then being dried in the air and headed, they take a long piece of canvafs, and dip- ping it in brimftone, make fome matches of it, adding a few coriander