THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 259 fill the craw with this, or with forced-meat; paper the bread till near done, then flour and bade it. For fauce—gravy alone, or brown celery fauce, ormufhroom fauce. For a tur- key poult, gravy and bread fauce. As foon as any kind,of poultry is laid to the fire, flour and bafte it. To roaft a Turkey with Oyfters. WHEN it is truffed for roafting, cut the liver to pieces, and fet it over the fire in a ftew-pan, with half a pint of oyfters waftied, and their liquor, which rnuft be ftrained, fome pepper and fait, two bay-leaves, two blades of mace, a piece of butter rolled in flour; let tbele ftew very gently about ten minutes, and then take them off; finge the turkey, and fluff it with the oyfters ; cover the heart with thin dices of bacon, and put a buttered fheet of paper over it; fpit it, and lay it down to a good fire, but at a diftance. While it is roafting, fet on a ftew- pan with half a pint of effence of ham : take a pint of oyfters, throw them into boiling water : take off the beards, then put them into the effence of ham : add a little lemon-juice, give them a boil. When the turkey is enough, and in the difh, pour the fauce over it. TojoaJl a Turkey the Italian Way, T AKE the liver of a young turkey, and mince it very fine, with fome chopped parfley, and two or three handfuls of frefh mufhrooms, fome pepper, fait, and more than an ounce of but- ter ; mix thefe well together, and put them into the body of the turkey; put on a ftew-pan with a piece of butter, fome ef- chalots, fome pepper and fait; when it is hot put in the turkey, turn it often that it may be of a fine brown, and lay it to cool; then wrap fome flices of bacon over it, and cover it all over with paper; put it upon a fpit, and lay it down to roaft. For fauce —cut fome large mufhrooms very fine, with twice the quan- tity of parfley, a few green onions cut fmall : put on a fauce- pan with half'a pint of white wine ; when it is hot, put in thefe ingredients; add fome pepper and fait, the juice of a lemon, two cloves of garlick whole; let them boil, and then put in a quarter of a pint of rich gravy, and a fmall teacup-full of oil ; let all boil up once or twice, then take out the garlick, and put in a piece of butter rolled in flour. Lay the turkey in the difli, and pour the fauce over it. S 2 To