THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 149 thin flice of bacon, not too fat; roll them up tight, fkewer them with fmall fkewers, rub the outfule with egg, roll them in bread crumbs, &c. lay them in the Dutch oven, let them do without burning; they take a good deal of time, as they are thick. Pour the following fauce into the difh—Take a pint of good gravy, thicken it with flour; add ketchup, chyan, pickled mulhrooms: boil this up a few minutes: forced-meat balls may be added. Veal Olives A-la-mode. TAKE two pounds of veal; beat it fine, as for forced-meat; the yolks of two eggs, two anchovies, half a pound of mar- row, a few mulhrooms, pickled or frelh, half apintof oyfters, fome thyme, fweet marjoram, parfley, fpinach, lemon-peel, fait, pepper, nutmeg, and mace, finely beaten; mix all well together : take a veal caul, lay a layer of bacon, and a layer of the ingredients, roll it in the veal caul, and either roaft or bake it; when it is done, cut it into flices, lay it in the difh, and pour good gravy over it. Fried Veal with Lemon. CUT fome flices of veal the breadth of three fingers, and twice that length, and the thicknefs of a crown-piece; make a feafoning of fweet herbs, fome grated bread, pepper, fait, and a little nutmeg; beat up the yolks of two eggs (without the whites); fet on a frying-pan with a piece of butter, when it is boiling hot dip the veal in the egg, and then in the fea- foning; cover them with it very thick; throw them into the pan and brown them ; put them into a hot difh, and fquecze a lemon over them : pour the fat out of the pan, put in fome gravy or cull is, fqueeze in fome lemon, fhake it round the pan till it is boiling hot, and then pour it over the veal; if it is not thick enough, mix a little flour and gravy in a bafon, and then pour it into that in the frying-pan ; let it boil, and ferve it up. T0 arefs cold Veal. FRY the veal brown, .then put it where the butter may drain off; afterwards flew it with an equal quantity of white w;ne and vinegar ; feafon it to the tafte ; throw the fuckers of artichokes, with the horny part cut off, into it when the yeal is put in, L 3. Cold f * a