5-94 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. crumbs, grated bread, and a little lemon-peel, chopped par fley*' and fweet herbs, yolk of egg mixed, pepper, fait, and nutme?£ gravy in the di(h. roafi a Rabbh Hare-fajhion. LARD a rabbit with bacon, and roaft it as yon do a hare, with a (luffing in the belly: make gravy-fauce ; but if you do not lard it, have white fauce made thus : take a little veal broth, boil it up with a little flour and butter to thicken it, and add a gill of cream : keep it flirring one way till it be fmooth, and then put it into a boat, or into the difh. Rabbits collared, with Afpic Sauce. LONE two or four fmall rabbits, leaving the heads entire; make a forced-meat with bits of the rabbits that come from the bones, &c. a little efchalot, a bit of butter, a little feraped ba- con, pepper, fait, parfley chopped, grated lemon-peel, the crumb of a French roll, a little cream, yolks of eggs, nutmeg; lay this over the rabbits, roll them up to the head, fkewer them, take care to keep in the forced-meat at the ends; lay a (lice or two of beef at the bottom of a veflel of a proper flze ; put in the rabbits, lay over them fome thin dices of bacon, not too fat, a bit of veal, the rabbit bones, an onion (buck with cloves, a carrot, a (lice of lemon, a bunch of fweet herbs, fome whole pepper, a glafs of Madeira, fome warm water; flew them gently in this an hour and a half; take them up, drain and icum the fauce ; take a fufficient quantity of it, and if there is any cullis add a ladlefull ; efchalot, tarragon, pimpernel, a very little thyme and marjoram, a little parfley, a few frefh or pickled mufnrooms, all chopped, the herbs fine ; fait, chyan ; wipe the rabbits clean ; pour the fauce over them, with what orange or lemon-juice is agreeable. [Rabbits fricaifeed white. See Chicken, omitting the pickled mufhrooms. J [Rabbits fricafleed brown. See Chicken.] Rabbits pulled. HALF boil them, with an onion, a little whole pepper, a bunch of fweet herbs, a piece of lemon-peel ; pull the flefla into flakes ; put to it a little of the liquor, a piece of butter mixed with flour; pepper, fait, nutrbeg, chopped parfley, the liver boiled and bruifeu ; boil this up,ihaking4t round. Fortuguefe