THE LADY'$ ASSISTANT. 2 62 J F OWL S. To choofe a Cock or Hen> Capon or Pullet. IF acock is young, his fpurs will be fhort; but be very careful they are neither cut nor pared : if they are ftale, their vents will be open ; if new, they will be clofe and hard. Hens are beft juft before they begin to lay, and yet full of egg: if they are old, their combs and legs will be rough ; if young, they will be fmooth. A good capon has a thick belly and a large rump ; there is a particular fatnefs at its breaft, and the comb is very pale. To boil Fowls. A large one will be boiled in half an hour; boil it in a pot by itfelf, fcum it very clean, it will be better than if boiled in a cloth ; pour fome melted butter over the breaft ; ferve it with tongue, bacon, or pickled pork ; cabbage, favoys, broccoli ; any greens or carrots, and oyfter iauce, white celery fauce, or white fauce. To boil Chickens. A large one takes twenty minutes, a very fmall one fifteen. For fauce—parfley and butter, or lemon fauce. Another IVay. LAY the chickens in fcalding water, till the feathers will flip off, but do not let them be in long, as it will make the fkin hard and will crack it ; when they are drawn, let them lie in fcummed milk two hours, trufs them, their heads under their wings, finge and flour them, put them into cold water, cover them clofe, and fet them over a very flow fire; fcum them well; when they have boiled very flowly for five or fix minutes, take them oft’, and keep them clofe covered in the water near half an hour (they will be white and plump) before they are fent to table ; fi t them over the fire to keep hot; take them up, drain them, and pour melted butter or white fauce over them. To rcaft Fowls. WHEN the fowls are laid to the fire, finge them with fome white paper, bafte them with butter, then dredge over them feme flour; when the fmoke begins to draw to the fire, bafte and dredge them over again; let the fire be brifk, and fend them to table\vith a good froth. A large fowl will take three quarters of an hour, a fmall one twenty minutes,, tor fauce—gravy, egg fauce, tnufliroonis, and white or brown celery fauce. .