43° THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. or three times ; then take them out and weigh them ; to every pound of oranges put two pounds of fugar beat and fifted ; take off the rinds and beat them in a mortar ; pick out the kernels, and beat the pulp, fugar, and rinds together, and keep it for ufe. When it is ufed, take a fpoonful of the conferve, and the yolks of five eggs well beat, two ounces of fine fugar fifted, two ounces of melted butter, one Naples bifcuit grated ; beat them all well together, adding the juice of one lemon ; lay a thin pafte round the difh, and bake it. This conferve is good for tarts or puddings. Orange Cakes. TAKE out the infide, picking out the feeds and fkins; boil the rind till tender, changing the water; dry and chop it, put it to the infide ; to one pound of this, one pound of fugar ; boil it candy high, firft well wetted ; take it off the fire, ftir in the orange, fcald it: when almoft cold drop it on plates. Dry the cakes in a ftove. Another. TAKE fix Seville oranges, grate the rinds of two of them ; then cut off* the rinds of all fix to the juice, and boil them in water till they are very tender ; then fqueeze out all the water, and beat them to a pafte in a marble mortar, rub it through a hair fieve, and what will not eafily rub through, muft be beat again till it will; cut the infides of the oranges into pieces, and rub as much of them through as poflible; then boil fix or eight pippins in almoft water enough to cover them, boil them to a pafte, and rub it through a fieve, and put it to the reft; put all together into a pan, and heat them thoroughly till it is well mixed ; to every pound of this pafte, put one pound and a quarter of loaf-fugar’; clarify the fugar, and boil it till it cracks, put in the pafte and the grated peel, ftir all together over a flow fire, till it is well mixed, and the fugar all melted; then fill fome round tin moulds with a fpoon, and fet them in a ^varm ftove to dry ; when the tops are dry, turn them on fievcs to dry the other fide: when quite dry keep them in a box. ‘To make Orange Clear-cakes. TAKE the beft pippins, pare them into as much water as will cover them, and boil them to a mafti ; then prefs out the jelly upon a fieve, and ftrain it through a bag, adding juice of ©ranges to give it an agreeable tafte ; to every pound of jelly, take