190 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. fat; heat the foup with vermicelli, and the niccft part of a head of celery boiled and cut to pieces, chyan, and a little fait; carrot may be added cut into fmall pieces and boiled, \yith fpi- nach and endive ; or the herbs without the vermicelli, or ver- micelli only; a dried French roll, the crumb firft taken out. Make the foup the day before it is wanted. N. B. All foups and flews are beftdone in an earthen veflel, made with a clofe cover; it gives them a rich flavour, and is always ufed by French cooks. Cow-heel Soup. TAKE fix pounds of mutton, five pounds of beef, and four of veal, the coarfeft pieces will do ; cut them acrofs with a knife ; put them into a pot, with an old fowl beat to pieces, and the knuckle part of a ham ; let thefe flew without any liquor over a very flow fire, but take care it does not burn to the pot; when it begins to flick to the bottom, flir it about, and then put in fomegood beef broth that has been well feum- med from the fat; then put in fome turnips, carrots, and ce- lery cut fmall, a bunch of fweet herbs, and a bay-leaf; then add fome clear broth, and let it flew about an hour; while this is doing, take a cow-heel, fplit it, and fet it on to boil in fome of the fame broth ; when it is very tender, take it off, and fet on a ftew-pan with fome crufts of bread, and fome more broth ; let them foak for eight or ten minutes : when the foup is ftewed enough, lay the crufts in a tureen, the two halves of the cow-heel upon them ; and then pour on the foup, which will be very rich and good. Soup a-la-Reine. PUT into a ftew-pan two pounds of lean veal cut into flices, two or three flices of ham or lean bacon, a carrot, a large onion fliced, four pepper-corns, a dozen coriander-feeds ; let thefe draw very gently ; add four quarts of beef broth, and let it boil gently one hour; ftrain it, pound the white of a roaft fowl ; blanch and beat half a pound of lweet almonds, half a dozen of bitter; bruife four yolks of eggs boiled hard; mix thefe with the foup ; rub it through a napkin, heat it, and add a little cream; keep it ftirring, do not let it boil; put into the tureen the crumb of a French roll whole. Macaroni