THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 121 Boiled Beef. BEEF mud be boiled according to the different pieces: a round, or a haunch-bone, ought not to be thoroughly boiled, as they makegood * bubble and (queak, if under done, or the infide of a round will make a good pie ; a middling fized round will take three hours : brilket and inferior pieces ought to be very well boiled. For fauce—cabbage, favoys, any fort of greens, carrots, or turnips. T0 boil a Rtmp of Beef, relijhed. CUT a very large handful of fweet herbs very fmall, mix with them fome common fait and pepper, a fmall quantity of faltpetre ; rub the beef all over with thefe ingredients, let it lie four days but not longer, put it into a pot with a large quan- tity of water, and put in with it four onions cut in quarters, a bunch of carrots, four bay-leaves, a large bunch of fweet herbs, a handful of parfley, five or fix cloves, fome whole pep- per, and a little fait ; boil it well, and as the fcum rifes take it off: do not put any of the roots into the difn with it, only drew fome frefh parfley. This is a very good way of drefting it; the herbs it is rubbed with give it a good flavour. Roof Beef. A PIECE of ten pounds will take about an hour and a half; of twenty pounds, three hours, if thick ; two hours and a half, if thin : put a piece of buttered paper on the outfide, it prevents the fkin from fhrinking. For fauce—fallad, pickles, potatoes, broccoli, cucumbers raw or dewed, celery raw or dewed, French beans, cauliflower. T0 bake a Leg of Beef. TAKE a large deep pan, and lay your beef at the bottom. ^ Then put in a little piece of bacon, a flice or two of carrot, fome mace, cloves, black and white whole pepper, a large onion cut in flices, and a bundle of fweet herbs. Pour in wa- ter till the meat be covered, and fend it to the oven covered up. When it be baked, drain it through a coarfe fieve. Take out all the finews and fat, and put them into a faucepan, with a few fpoonfuls of the gravy, a little red wine, a fmall piece of butter rolled in flour, and fome muflard. Shake your faucepan tV * Fry’d beef and cabbage. often, * t 1