THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 45; To make Muffins. TAKE two quarts of warm water, two fpoonfuls of yeaft, three pounds of flour; beat it well half an hour, and let it Hand an houror two ; bake them on an iron bake-ftove, (rub it well over with mutton-fuet, as often as they are to be laid on) as loon as they begin to colour, turn them; when coloured on both Tides they are baked enough. / French Rolls. WARM three fpoonfuls of milk, and three of water, with about the quantity of a walnut of butter, put it to two fpoon- fuis of thick yeaft ; put this into the middle of a full quart or rather more flour, ftir enough with it to make it of the thicknefs of a batter pudding ; ftrew a little flour over it from the Tides, and if the weather is cold fet it at a little diftance from the fire ; do this three hours before it is put into the oven; when it breaks a good deal through the flour and rifes, work it into a light pafte with more warm milk and water; let it lie till within a quarter of an hour of fetting into the oven, then work them lightly into rolls, drop them on a tin, firft floured ; handle them as little aspoflible; fet them before a fire to rife; twenty minutes or thereabouts will bake them : put a little fait into the flour. Rafp the rolls. A Ramakin. BEAT a quarter of a' pound of Gloucefter, the fame of Chefhire cheefe ; then put to it two ounces of butter, half the crumb of a penny-loaf foaked in cream, four eggs, but one white ; put it into a china difh : bake it a quarter of an hour ill a moderate oven. Potted Cheefe. BEAT three pounds of the beft Chefhire cheefe in a mortar, with half a pound of the beft butter, a large glafs of fack, near half an ounce of mace beaten and lifted ; mix it well, pot it; pour over clarified butter. To make an Englijh Rabbit. CUT a flice of bread, toaft it, and foak it in red wine, put it before the fire; cut fome cheefe in very thin flices, and rub Tome butter over the bottom of a plate, lay the cheefe upon it, and pour in two or three fpoonfuls of white wine, and a little muftard ; cover it with another plate, and fet it on achaf- ins-difh