»! THE LADY’i ASSISTANT. 369 1To make an Oatmeal Pudding after the New-England Manner. TAKE a pint of whole oatmeal, fteep it in a quart of boiled milk over-night; in the morning take half a pound of beef* fuet Hired fine, and mix with the oatmeal and milk fome grated nutmeg, and a little fait, with the yolks and whites of three eggs, a quarter of a pound of currants, a quarter of a pound of raifins, and as much fugar as will fweeten it; ftir it well together, tie it pretty clofe, and boil it two hours.—Sauce, melted butter. Cufiard Pudding. BOIL a piece of cinnamon in a pint of thin cream; a quar- ter of a pound of fugar; when cold, add the yolks of five eggs well beaten ; ftir this over the fire till pretty thick, itmuft not boil; when quite cold, butter a cloth well, duft it with flour/ tie the cuftard in it very clofe, boil it three quarters of an hour; when it is taken up, put it into a bafon to cool a little ; untie the cloth, lay the difh on the bafon, turn it up ; if the cloth is not taken off carefully, the pudding will break ; grat$ over it a little fugar.—Melted butter and a little wine in a boat. Quaking Pudding. BOIL a quart of cream; when almoft cold, put to it four eggs that have been beaten very well, a fpoonful and a half of flour, fome nutmeg and fugar ; tie it clofe in a buttered cloth, boil it an hour, turn it out with care.—Melted butter and a little wine and fugar poured over it. Bread Pudding. POUR a pint of boiling milk upon the crumb of a penny loaf grated, and two ounces of butter; a little fugar and nut* meg ; when cold, add four eggs beaten ; mix well all together, boil it an hour; if agreeable, add half a pound of currants picked and walhed.—Melted butter, a little fugar, and white wine. Common Rice Pudding. BOIL a quarter of a pound of rice in a cloth, leave it room, to fv/ell ; when it has boiled an hour, untie it, and ftir in a quarter of a pound of butter, fome nutmeg, and fugar ; tie it up, and boil it another hourj; pour melted butter over it. B b Or,