THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 15^ Calf's Liver fried. CUT it in flices, and fry it in good beef-dripping or but- ter ; let the pan be half full, and put the liver in when it boils, which is, when it has done hifling : have fomc rafhers of toafted bacon, and lay round it, with fome parfiey crifped be- fore the fire : always lay the bacon in boiling water before it is either broiled, fried, or toafted, as it takes out the fait, and makes it tender. Sauce—plain melted butter, a little poured; over the liver, the reft in a fauce-boat. Calf’s Chitterlings. • ^ CLEAN fome of the largeft of the calf’s guts, cut them into lengths proper for puddings, tie one of the ends clofe ; take fome bacon, and cut it like dice, and a calf’s udder, and fat that confes off the chitterlings; chaldran blanched and cut alfo ; put them into a ftew-pan, with a bay-leaf, fait, pepper, efchalot cut fmall, fome pounded mace, and Jamaica pepper, with half a pint or more of milk, and let it juft ftmmer ; then take off the pan, and thicken it with four or five yolks of eggs, and fome crumbs of bread ; fill the chitterlings with this mix- ture, which muft be kept warm, and make the links like hogs- puddings ; before they are fent to table, they muft be boiled over a moderate fire ; let them cool in their own liquor : they ferve in fummer, when hogs-puddings are not to be had. Fo flew Calf’s Feet. TAKE a calf’s foot, divide it into four pieces, put it to flew with half a pint of water; pare a potatoe, take a middling onion peeled and fliced thin, fome beaten pepper, and fait; put thefe ingredients to the calf’s foot, and let them ftmmer very foftly for two hours ; it is very good, j Fricaffee of Calf’s Feet. BOIL them, and take out the long bones, fplit them, and put them into a ftew-pan, with fome veal gravy, and a very little white wine; beat the yolks of two or three eggs with a little cream, and put to them a little grated nutmeg, fome fait, and a piece of butter j ftir it till it is of a proper thicknefs. Ragout of Calf’s Feet. BOIL the feet, bone and cut the meat in flices, brown them