THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. 123 A Leg of Beef Jtewed. CUT it into pieces, put to it a bunch of fweet herbs, two large onions, fix or eight cloves, a carrot or two, a turnip, a head of celery, fome black pepper, a quart of beer, and water enough to cover the meat ; flew it in an earthen veffel fix or feven" hours ; take out the meat, fcum the liquor; put to it celery ready boiled and cut into pieces, carrot cut to pieces and boiled, and turnips in balls, a little chyan. Or thicken fome of the liquor with flour, boil it up a few minutes (a little red wine, not much) pick out the finews, and as much of the meat as is wanted, put it into the fauce, ferve it in a deep difti. Beef A-la-mode. TAKE fome of the round of beef, the veiny piece, or fmall round (what is generally called the moufe buttock) cut it five or fix inches thick, cut fome pieces of fat bacon into long bits ; take an equal quantity of beaten mace, pepper, and nutmeg, with double the quantity of fait, if wanted ; mix them toge- ther, dip the bacon into fome vinegar (garlick vinegar, if agree- able) then into the fpice, lard the beef with a larding-pin, very thick and even, put the meat into a pot juft big enough to hold it, with a gill of vinegar, two large onions, a bunch of fweet herbs, half a pint of red wine, fome lemon-peel : cover it down very clofe, and put a wet cloth round the edge of the pot, to prevent the fleam evaporating ; when it is half done turn it, and cover it up again ; do it over a ftove, or a very flow fire : it will take five hours and a half before it is done. N. B. Truffles and morells may be added to it. Another Way. CUT fome of the round of beef into pieces, lard and fry them, put to them fome beef broth, a bunch of fweet herbs, an onion, a few pepper-corns and cloves ; ftew this gently till tender, covered clofe; fcum off the fat, add a few frefh mufti- rooms. N. B. Water may be ufed inftead of broth. Rump of Beef A-la-mode. BONE it, lard it with bacon, make a fluffing with bread- crumbs, parfley, and fweet herbs chopped, a little efchalot, nutmeg, pepper, fait, lemon-peel grated, fuet chopped, and yolk of > t t \ . L