* THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 127 To drefs a Fillet of Beef. IT is the infide of thefirloin ; itmufl be carefully cut from the bone; make afeafoning with a few crumbs of bread, a little pepper and fait, fome lemon-peel, thyme, parfley Hired fmall, with fome nutmeg grated ; Hrew this all over it, and then put fome flices of faEbacon cut very thin over the feafoning; roll it up very tight, fkewer it with fmall fkewers, and roaftit; bafle it with red wine and butter, put fome good gravy into the difli. / To broil Beef Steaks. THE befi Heaks are cut from the middle of the rump; let them be cut half an inch thick, then beat them with a rolling- pin, feafon them with pepper and fait; let the fire be very clear and brifk, the gridiron very clean ; fet the difh before the fire upon achaffing-dilh to keep hot; turn the Heaks often with a pair of fmall tongs made on purpofe. When they are enough, lay them in the difh, and rub a bit of butter over them. N. B. Be fure do not feafon them till they are put upon the gridiron. Beef Steaks fried. TAKE fome {leaks cut out of the middle of the rump, fry them in butter ; when they are done put a little fmall beer into the pan, if not bitter, the gravy which runs from the {leaks, a little nutmeg, an efchalot, fome walnut ketchup, a piece of butter rolled in flour, {hake it round the pan till it boils, and pour it over the {leaks; fome Hewed oyfters may be added, or pickled mufhrooms. Another way. PEPPER and fait fome rump {leaks. Hew them with fome water, a glafs of Madeira, a bunch of fweet herbs, an anchovy or two, an onion, a piece of lemon-peel, two or three cloves ; cover them clofe ; when tender take them out; flour them pretty well, fry them, pour off the fat, flrain the liquor that they were Hewed in, put it to the Heaks, with, ketchup or mufhroom pow'der and liquor, oyffers and their liquor, lemon juice ; fimrner this up ; garnilh with pickles. Beef Steaks jlewed. CU r three pounds of Heaks from the leg of mutton-piece of beef, beat them, put them into a Hew-pan with a pint of wa- ter ; the fame of fmall beer, it not bitter; if it is, put lcfs beer and )