s 352 THE LADY's ASSISTANT. Afparagus. SCRAPE them, and cut off the prime part at the ends ; wipe them, and lay them carefully in a gallipot, pour vinegar over them, let them lie in this ten days, or a fortnight; boil fome frefh vinegar, pour it on them hot; repeat this till they are a good colour, covering them clofe: add mace and a little nutmeg. They do very well in a made-difh, when afparagus Is not to be had ; but when they are ufed lay them a little while in warm water. To pickle Quinces. TAKE half a dozen quinces, cut them all to pieces, and put them in an earthen pot, with a gallon of water, and two pounds of honey ; mix all thefe together, and then put them into a kettle to boil leifurely half an hour ; {train the liquor into an earthen pot, and when it is cold wipe the quinces clean, and put them into it.: they mult be covered very clofe ; and they will keep all the year. To pickle Samphire. TAKE the famphi’.e that is green, lay it in a clean pan ; throw two or three handfuls of fait over it, and cover it with fpring-water: let it lie twenty-four hours; then put it into a large brafs faucepan ; throw in a handful of fait ; cover it with good vinegar ; cover the pan clofe, and fet it over a very flow fire: let it ftand till it is juft green and crifp, then take it off, for if it is foft it is fpoiled ; put it into a jar and cover it clofe j when it is cold tie it down. Elder-fooots, in Imitation of Bamboo. TAKE the largeft and youngeft of the elder {hoots, which fprout out in the middle of May : the middle ftalks are the moft tender, and likewife are the largeftj but thole which are fmall are not worth doing. Peel off the outward {kin, and lay them in a {Irons; brine of fait and water all night, then dry them, in a cloth, every piece by itfelf. Make the pickle half white-wine and half beer vinegar : to each quart of pickle put one ounce of%’hite pepper, an ounce of ginger fticed, a little mace, and a little whole Jamaica pepper ; boil the fpice in the pickle, and pour it hot upon the (hoots ; flop them clofe immediately, and fet the jar before the fire : let it ftand two hours, turning it often. It is a good way to green pickles : if they are not green, boil them two or three times, and pour it on boiling hot. To