188 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. leg of mutton piece of beef, about feven or eight quarts of water; boil thefe up as quick as pofiible, fcum it very clean ; add one large onion, fix or feven cloves, fome whole pepper, two or three carrots, a turnip or two, a leek, two heads of ce- lery ; flew this very gently, clofe covered, for fix or feven hours ; about an hour before dinner flrain the foup through a piece of dimity that has been dipped in cold water; put the rough fide upwards : have ready boiled carrots cut like little wheels, turnips cut in balls, fpinach, a little chervil and forrel, two heads of endive, one or two of celery cut in pieces ; put thefe into a tureen, with a Dutch loaf or a French roll dried, after the crumb is taken out ; pour the foup to thefe boiling hot; add a little fait and chyan. Take the tape from the bouil- lie, ferve it in a feparate difh ; mafihed turnips and lliced car- rots, in two little difhes. The turnips and carrots fhould be cut with an inflrument that may be bought for that purpofe. Hodge Podge. CUT a piece of brifleet of beef into pieces, put water to it, a bunch of fweet herbs, an onion, fome whole pepper in a bit of muflin, a carrot or two cut into pieces ; when it has boiled fome time, add a turnip or two cut into pieces, two or three heads of celery cut int pieces; flew all till tender: lettuce may be added, young cabbage, and a few green peafe; if the turnips are put in at the firfl, they will be boiled to mafh. Another. CUT a piece of brifket of beef into eight or ten pieces, put it into a vefTel that will hold about a gallon, befides the meat, &c. put in three full quarts of water, one quart of fmall beer, or rather lefs ; fcum it well, put in onions, carrots, tuinips, celery, black pepper, a little fait; when the meat is tender, take it out; flrain the foup ; put a bit of butter into a flew- pan, and a fpoonful of flour ; ilir it till brown, but be lure not to let it burn ; take the fat off the foup, put it into the llew- pan, flew it with the beef in it, and the nicefl part of three or four favoys : when they are tender, ferve it; turnips and carrots may be ferved with thefe, without the favoys, with Ipinach, celery, and endive. N. B. In all thefe foups, any fort of fpices or roots may be added or omitted. Leg of beef cut to pieces, and flewed fix or lcyen hours. ✓