THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 483 The Thames-water, efpec:ally in the neighbourhood of London, is mixed with many impure ingredients. It is faid to become offenfive in feven or eight days, or fometimes fooner, if it be kept in unfeafoned cafks. In this Hate it generates a quantity of foul inflammable air, as may be feenby holding the flame of a candle to the bung-hole of a calk, when it is firft opened. But by this fermentation it foon purifies itfelf; and by opening the bung, it will often become lweet in twenty-four hours, and looner if it be poured from one veffel to another, or ventilated. Methods by which Water may be obtained in its great eft Purity. AS it appears, that almoft all the water ufed in cookery is tainted with im- pure ingredients ; rain-water, with a great variety of volatile bodies, fuligi- nous particles, exhalations, invifible feeds, and infefls ; river, pond, and well- water, with a mixture of foil and mud, decayed vegetables, and the fpawn. of vermin ; it will be very proper to purify it, before it is ufed for drinking, or any kitchen purpofe. This maybe done by various contrivances, 1. The wat,er of the Thames, and that of the New River, are very often muddy, or tafte ftrongly of weeds and leaves. Dr. Heberden acknowledges, that the latter fault cannot eafily be remedied ; but, he obferves, they would foon be freed from their muddinefs, if kept fome time in an open jar : and he is of opinion, that if the water given to very young children were thus purified, it might prevent fome of their bowel-diforders, and fo contribute a little to lefi'en that amazing mortality among the children which are nurf- edin London. 2. Rain-water, when grown putrid, may be eafily rendered wholefome again, and may be drank without being offenfive, by only boiling it a few moments : for by this expedient the animals that are in it will be deftroyed, and, with the reft of the impurities, will fubfide to the bottom. If then you make it moderately acid, by adding to it a fmall quantity of acid that is very ftrong, it will be fit for ufe. This is found to be of excellent fer- vice under the equator, and between the tropics, where the waters putrify , in a horrible manner, and breed a multitudeef infefits, and yetmuft be drank. For the fame reafon, a fmall quantity of fpirit of vitriol, mixed with water, will prevent its growing putrid, and breeding any animals, and, at the fame time, preferve it wholefome and good. 3. A common way of purifying water is by filtration. Water, which is fil- trated through porous ftones, is extremely clear and limpid ; but fome wri- ters have aflerted, that it acquires a petrifying quality in its paflage, which, at length, may produce dilagreeable effefts. However this may be, thefe ftones are too dear for common ufe. Dr. Rotheram aflerts, that one of the readied and beft methods of filtering water, is, to let it run through a bed of clean land. This is, he fays, pre'l ferable to the filtering-ftone, as it performs its work much former; and the grains of far.d are of To many different figures, that they are pretty fure to ftop the progrefs of any bodies of fenfible bulk in palling through them. “ A friend of mine,” fays the Doftor, “ in this town [Newcaftle] hasacif- tern for collecting rain-water fo conftrufled, that it both allows the water to fubfide, and the upper part of it to run through a bed of fand, which is railed by a partition above the bottom of theciftern ; by which means the water be- comes perfectly clear and bright, and is preferred, by moft who have tailed it, to any other v/ater in this town.” I i z +. Som*