THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. 317 anchovies wafhed and pulled to pieces ; let them fimmer in the wine till they are difl'olved ; when cold, put them to the vine— o-ar ; then take half a pint of white wine, and put into it fome mace, fome ginger fliced, a few cloves, a fpoonful of whole pepper bruifed ; let them boil a little ; when almoft cold, flice in a whole nutmeg, and fome lemon-peel, with two or three fpoonfuls of horfe-radifti ; flop it clofe, and ftir it once or twice a day. It will foon be fit for ufe. It muft be kept clofe Hopped. S O Y. SOY comes from the Eaft Indies; it is made from their muftirooms, which grow in the woods. They are of a purplifli colour, and are wrinkled on the furface like a morell. They gather them in the middle of the day, and wafh them in fait and water ; and then lay them in a difti, mafti them with then- hands, and fprinkle them with fait and beaten pepper; the next day the liquor is preffed off, and fome * galangals and fpices added to it; it is boiled up till it is very ftrong, and then fome more fait is fprinkled into it. In this manner it will keep many years. A Colouring for Brown Sauces. TWO ounces of butter, a quarter of a pound of very fine fugar, put over a very clear fire, in an earthen pipkin, and kept ffirring all the time; while the fugar is diflblving, that is, v/hile the froth rifes, hold it at a diftance from the fire; when the fugar and butter are brown, pour in a little red wine, ftir it well together, then add more wine, till a quart is put in ; let it be well mixed; then put in an ounce of Jamaica pepper, twelve cloves, eight efchalots peeled, fix blades of mace, fome mulhroom-pickle, a little fait, and the rind of a lemon ; boil thefe flowly a quarter of an hour; pour it in a bafon : when cold, take off the feum very clean, and bottle it for ufe. Lemon Pickle. SLIT eight lemons, pulp them, fill them with fait; few them up, put them on a difh, dry them very gradually either by the fire or in a Hack oven ; they muft be dry and hard ; bruife three quarters of a pint of muftard-feed, tie it in a rag; take. * GaJangals is a root which grow3 in the Eaft Indies. four