4CO THE LAt)Y’s ASSISTANT. A better Seed Cake. WORK two pounds of butter to a cream with the hand ; put to it the whites of twenty eggs, beat to a ftrong froth, the yolks of eight, a pound and a quarter of loaf fugar fifted, a little mace pounded, and nutmeg ; beat thefe well ; add two pounds ot dried flour, two ounces of carraway-feeds, and in the beating, a quarter of a pint of brandy; if it is to be en- riched, fliced almonds, orange-peel, and citron. A Seed Cake with Yeaft. FOUR pounds of flour, two pounds and a half of butter, half a pint of cream, twenty eggs, half a pound of fugar fifted, a pound of almonds blanched and beat, about a dozen of them bitter, three ounces of fmooth carraways, a quarter of a pint of brandy, a pint of good ale-yeafl: ; rub fome of the butter into the flour and fugar, beat the eggs and ftrain them, beat them again with the yeafi ; melt the remainder of the butter in the cream ; mix all the other ingredients ; let it rife half an hour : bake it an hour and a half. A Pound Cake. BEAT a pound of butter to a cream ; beat well twelve yolks of eggs, fix whites, beat them in the cream, then put in a pound of flour dried ; beat thefe all together for one hour, with one pound of fugar, a few carraways ; butter the pan ; continue to beat the cake till it goes to the oven. A common Plum Cake. FIVE pounds of currants, half a peck of flour; a quarter of an ounce of mace pounded, rather lefs of cloves, one pound of lump fugar fifted, twelve eggs, a pint of good ale-yeafl, three pounds of butter melted in three pints of new milk, and a pint of brandy; mix all well together. A good Plum Cake. THREE pounds of flour, three pounds of currants, three quarters of a pound of almonds, blanched and beat grofslv, about half an ounce of them bitter, four ounces of fugar, feven yolks and fix whites of eggs, one pint of cream, two pounds of butter, half a pint of good ale-yeafl:; mix the eggs and the yeafl: together, (train them ; fet the cream on the fire, melt the butter in it; ifir in the almonds, and halt a pint of fack, part ©f which fhould be put to the almonds while beating ; mix to- gether