196 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. and put it into the foup ; let it all boil till the fowl is tho- roughly done, fcum it very clean, and fend it to table ; fomc lay poached eggs round. It may be eat without the eggs and forrcl, and is very good. Afparagus Soup. CUT four or five pounds of beef to pieces ; fet it over a fire, with an onion or two, a few cloves, and fome whole black pepper, a calf’s foot or two, a head or two of celery, a very little bit of butter; let it draw at a diftance from the fire ; put in a quart of warm beer, three quarts of warm beef broth, or water : let thefe flew till enough ; ftrain it, take of? the fat very clean, put in fome afparagus heads cut fmall (palates may be added, boiled very tender) j and a toafted French roll, the crumb taken out. Soup Crejfu. CUT a pound of lean ham into fmall bits, and put it at the bottom of a ftew-pan ; then cut a French roll, and put it over the ham : take two dozen heads of celery cut fmall, fix onions, two turnips, one carrot, cut and waflied very clean, fix cloves, four blades of mace, and two handfuls of water-creftes : put them all into the ftew-pan, with a pint of good broth ; cover them clofe, and fweat them gently for twenty minutes ; then fill it up with veal broth, and ftew it four hours ; rub it thro’ a fine fieve or cloth, and put it into your pan again : feafon it with fait, and a little chyan pepper ; give it a fimmer up, and fend it to table hot, with fome French roll toafted hard in it : boil a handful of creftes in water till they be tender, and put it in over the bread. Chefnut Soup. TAKE fome dices of ham or bacon, a pound of veal, a pi- geon cut into pieces, a bunch of fweet herbs, and an onion, a little pepper, fome mace, and a piece of carrot; lay the bacon or ham at the bottom of the ftew-pan, fet it over a flow fire till it begins to ftick to the pan ; then put in a cruft of bread, and pour in two quarts of beef broth j let it boil foftly till one- third is near wafted ; then ftrain it off; take half a hundred of the beft chefnuts, roaft and peel them ; let them ftew in beef broth, enough to cover them, till they are quite tender ; add them to the foup which was ftrained ofFj feafon it with fait, and put in a fried French roll. Vermi-