THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. n 185 little fait over it, and fend it to table nicely frothed. With mint fauce or fallad it will eat like lamb. When it comes to table, cut off the fhoulder, and fqueeze a Seville orange over it; half an hour will roaft it. The hind-quarter is very good roafted in the fame manner. To barbicue a Pig. TAKE a pig nine or ten weeks old, fcalded, &c. as for roafting ; make a fluffing with a fevy fage-leaves, the liver of the pig, and two anchovies boned, wafhed, and cut very fmall ; put them into a mortar with fome crumbs of bread, a quarter of a pound of butter, a very little chyan pepper, and half a pint of Madeira wine ; beat them to pafte, and few it up in the pig : lay it down, at a great diftance, to a large brifk fire; finge it well put into the dripping-pan two bottlesof Madeira wine, and bafte it well all the time it is roafting ; when it is half-roafted, put into the dripping-pan two French rolls; if there is not wine enough in the dripping-pan, add more : when the pig is near enough, take the rolls and fauce and put them into a fauce-pan ; add to them one anchovy cut fmall, a bunch of fweet herbs, and the juice of a lemon ; take up the pig, put an apple in its mouth, and a roll on each fide, then ftrain the fauce over it. Some barbicue a pig of fix or feven weeks old, and flick blanched almonds all over it, but bafte it with Madeira in the fame manner. To drefs a Pig au Pere Douillet. CUT off the head, and divide it into quarters; lard them with bacon ; feafon them well with mace, cloves, pepper, nut- meg, and fait : put a layer of fat bacon at the bottom of a ket- tle, lay the head in the middle, and the quarters round ; then put in a bay leaf, an onion fiiced, lemon, carrots, parfnips, parfley, and cives; cover it again with bacon, put in a quart of broth, ftew it over the fire for an hour, and then take it up ; put your pig into a ftew-pan or kettle, pour in a bottle of white wine, cover it clofe, and let it ftew for an hour very foftly : if you would ferve it cold, let it ftand till it be fo ; then drain it well, and wipe it, that it may look white, and lay it in a difh With the head in the middle, and the quarters round, and then throw fome green parfley all over. Any one of the quarters is a pretty little difh, laid on water-creffes. If you would have it hot, while your pig is ftewing in the wine, take the firft gravy it