180 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. it fome pepper and fait; put a layer of cod upon the pork, and then a thin layer of pork, and on that a layer of bifcuit, and fo on a layer of each, till the kettle is near full, or within four or five inches ; pour in about a pint and a half of water ; cover it with pafte, fatten down the top of the kettle very tight, put it on a flow fire about four hours, fupplying the top of the kettle with hot wood embers ; when it is taken up, let it be well fkim- med, then lay it in a difh, pour in a glafs of hot Madeira wine, with a little Jamaica pepper, fome ftewed truffles, morells, and oyfters ; lay the pafte over it, which fhould be a little brown. A Ragout of Pig's Feet and Ears. TAKE them out of foufe, fplit the feet, dip them in egg, then in bread crumbs and chopped parfley ; fry them in hog's lard, drain them ; cut the ears in long narrow flips, flour them, put them into fome good gravy ; add ketchup, morells, and pickled mufhrooms ; flew theyn, pour them into the difh, lay on the feet. ' ■ v \0?’. THEY ar£ .ybry good dipped in batter and fried, eat with melted butter aiicf muftard. Fo pickle Pig's Feet and Ears. WASH the feet and ears very clean, put a bay-leaf between every foot ; when they are well foaked, add to them cloves, mace, coF+ander-feed, and ginger; put a bottle of white wine to three pair of feet and ears, fome bay-leaves, a bunch of fweet herbs : let them boil foftly till they are very tenddr, then take them out of the liquor, lay them in an earthen pot; when cold take off the fat, and ftrain the liquor over them. They eat well cold, or warmed in the jelly thickened with butter rolled in flour : or take the feet and ears out of the jelly, dip them in yolk of egg, and then in crumbs of bread, and broil them, or fry them in butter; lay the'ears in the middle, and ^he feet round : or ragout them. Soufe for Pig's Feet and Ears. BOIL bran and water, let it ftand to be a little four ; or, if it is not four foon-enough, add a little vinegar. Fo force Ffcg’c Ears. TAKE two or three pair of ears, parboil them, or>take them fouled ; then take an anchovy, fome fage, lome parfley, half a pound