2*4 THE LADY’s assistant. feveral in a pot. Any kind of poultry may be done the fame" way. To pickle Pigeons. BONE the pigeons, take the meat of fome of them, and {kin it, beat it in a mortar, and add to it a little beaten mace, fome pepper, fait, thyme, and parfley cut fmall, fome long flips of fat bacon ; roll all thefe together, fluff fome of the pigeons which are boned with it; then take fome of the livers, bruife them with a fpoon, and feafon them with the fame fort of fea- foning that was ufed before with the meat, adding a little more thyme cut fmall ; fluff fome of the pigeons with this, and the remainder with pepper, fait, and parfley cut fmall, or oyflers, but they muft be parboiled firft; put on the fire in a faucepan liquor enough to cover the pigeons, made of white wine and water, an equal quantity, and one quarter of vinegar, with fome whole pepper, mace, fait, and a little nutmeg; when thefe boil put in the pigeons, let them boil half an hour; then take them out, and let them lie till they are cold ; if the liquor they were boiled in is not feafoned high enough, add to it fome more beaten pepper and vinegar ; when it is cold put the vine-r gar into it; let them lie two or three days, and they will be fit for ufe, U A I L S. To choofe Quails. THE beft come from France and Germany, where they are fatted, and the fattefl are reckoned the bell. To roajl Quails. TRUSS the quails, and make a fluffing for them with beef- fuct and fweet herbs chopped very fmall, feafoned with a little fpicc ; put them upon a fmall fpit, when they grow warm bafle them with water and fait, then dredge them and bade them with butter. For fauce—diffolve an anchovy in good gravy. With two or three efchalots cut very fine, and the juice of a Seville orange; lay fome fried bread-crumbs round the difh. Another Way. HAVE ready a very clear fire ; put round each quail a flice of bacon, and over that a vine-leaf; fpit them, and lay them down at a moderate diitance from the fire; for if they are too neara