478 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT; preferving four fruits or pickles. The glazing of fuch veflels is corroded by tile vinegar ; for, upon evaporating the liquor, a quantity of the fait of lead will be found at the bottom. A Cure way of judging whether the vinegar, or other acids, have diflblved part of the glazing, is, by their becoming vapid, or Jofing their (liarpnefs, and acquiring a fweetifh tafte by (landing in them'for feme time : in which cafe the contents are to be thrown away as pernicious. The fubflance of the pottery ware commonly called Delft, the bed being made at Delft in Holland, is a whitifh clay when baked, and ’foft, as not hav^ ing endured a great heat in baking. The glazing is a compofition of calcined lead, calcined tin, land, fame coarfe alkaiine fait, and fandiver ; which being run into a white glafs, the white colour being owing to the tin, is afterwards ground in a mill, then mixed with water, and the veflels, after being baked in the furnace, are dipped into it, and put into the furnace a fecond time ; by which means, with a i'mall degree of heat, the white glafs runs upon the veflels. This glazing is exceedingly foft, and eafily cracks. What effe&s acids will have upon it, the author of thel’e oblervations cannot fay, not having tried them : but they feem to be improper for infpiflating the juice of lemons, oran- ges, or any other ar id fruits. The molt proper velfels for thefe purpofes are porcelain or china ware. The fubflance of them is of fo clofe a texture, that no faline, or other liquor, can penetrate them. The glazing, which is made likewile of the fubflance of the china, is l’ofirm and ciofe, that no fait or faline fubflance can have the lead ef- feCl upon it. It mult, however, be ohferved, that this.remark is only applica- ble to the porcelain made in China : for fome fpecies of the European manu- factory are certainly glazed with a fine glafs of lead, &c. Next to china is the ftone ware, commonly called the StafFordfliire ware. The fubflance of thefe veflels is a compolition of black flint, and a ftrong clay, that bakes white. Their outfides are glazed by throwing into the fur- nace, when well heated, common or fea fait decrepitated ; the fleam or acid of which, flying up among the veflels, vitrifies the outfides of them, and gives them the glazing. This ftone ware does not appear to be injured or affected, by any kind of falts, either acid or alkaline, or any liquors, hot or cold. They are therefore extremely proper for all common ufes ; but require a careful management, as they are much apter to crack with any fudden heat, than china. REMARKS on the ADULTERATION of BREAD and FLOUR. IN the fophiftication of flour, mealmen and bakers have been known to ufe bean-meal, chalk, whiting, flaked lime, alum, and even aflies of bones. Thefirft, bean flour, is perfectly innocent, and affords a nourifhment equal to that of wheat; but there is a touglinefs in bean-flour, and its co- lour is dufky. To remove thefe defeCts, chalk is added to whiten it, alum to give the whole compound that confiftence which is neceflary to make it knead well in the dough, and jalap to take off the aftringency. It may be fuppofed, that thefe horrid iniquities are only imaginary, or at leaft exagge- rated, and that fuch mixtures mult be difcoverable even by the moft ordinary taile j