\ THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. 343 T0 make Sour Croat. T AKE fome fine hard white cabbage?, cut them very fmall; have ready a tub, according to the quantity which is to be done ; put the cabbages into the tub : to every four or five cabbages throw in a handful of fait; when they are all putin. Jay on them a very heavy weight, to prefs them down as flat as poflible ; throw a cloth on them, and lay on the cover ; let them ftand a month, when they may be ufed, but they will keep twelve months ; it muff be always kept clofe covered : a few carraway-feeds pounded fine, and thrown in, make it eat well. The way to drefs it, is with a fine piece of fat beef flawed. Cauliflower-ftalks, and cabbage-ftalks, peeled and cut down, and done in the fame manner, are very good. 2~he true German Way of making Sour Croat, or Sour Cabbage. TAKE white cabbages, and clean them v/ell from all the green and fuperfluous leaves; cut through the middle, and take the hearts out; cut and flice the cabbages as fmall as poflible, but cut them no longer than they are perfe£tly nice and fine. Rub the infide of the cafk well with yeaft, it will help to four the cabbage, and prevent the fait liquor from running out. When there is a quantity cut (not all which is to be done), fpread it upon a dry table, fait it moderately, and roll it well. Do not pull too much at a time, as it cannot be worked thro’ fufficiently ; ftrew a little coriander-feed over it, if agreeable. Put it into the calk, and prefs it down very hard ; repeat this till the calk is quite full ; cover it with vine-leaves, put a dry cloth over them, and leave it till next morning, then put on the head of the calk over the leaves and cloth, and put a very heavy weight upon it, to keep it quite clofe. O&ober is the proper time to do it; it will be fit to eat in two months. When the cabbage is taken out to drefs, be careful to take off all that looks whitilh ; it is not good till it begins to grow yellow ; the deeper the cabbage lies, the finer and better it will be. When what is wanted is taken out for one d refling, cover the cabbage with vine-leaves, as long as they can be got, and when they fail, with a dry cloth. Take great care the fait liquor does not run out, if it does, the cabbage will infal- libly fpoil. Boil the cabbage with a good deal of butte r in a weli-tinn’d veffel; put no more water than jult enough to Z 4 cover