234 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. f fkewer the tail in the mouth, rub it with yolk of egg ; ftrew over it bread crumbs, flick on bits of butter; put into the difli with it half a pint of port, a blade of mace, a piece of lemon- peel ; bake it in a common oven, or it may be done in a Dutch one.—White-fifh fauce, or anchovy-fauce ; put to the fauce what gravy may be in the difli with the fifli; firft take off the fat. Half the quantity of fluffing does for a fmall pike; and the fifli may be omitted in it, but it is not fo good. N. B. It is an excellent way of dreffingpike ; do not cut the fifli open, but draw out the infide at the gills; make it very clean. Some lard a pike, and bafte it while roafting with anchovy and butter. To broil Pike. TAKE a middle-fized pike, as frefh as poffible ; melt fome "butter, with flour, a little pepper and fait; pour it into a foup- difli to cool. When the pike is gutted, fealed, and waflied, dry it well; then with a fharp knife fcore it crofs the back and fides: then roll it in the melted butter: fet the gridiron at a great diflance from the fire, which muft be very clear ; lay the pike upon it, and let it be well done ; when it is almoft enough, put it near the fire that it may be brown. Sauce—, anchovy or flirimp. To pot a Pike. SCALE it, and cut off the head ; fplit it, and take out the back-bone ; ftrew it over with bay-falt and pepper ; cover it, and bake it; then take it out and lay it on a coarfe cloth to drain ; when it is cold, lay it in a pot that will juft hold it, and cover it with clarified butter. It muft be well drained from the gravy, or it will not keep. To foufe Pike. WHEN the pike is gutted, waflied, and fealed, lay it into a large flew-pan, with as much water as will cover it, a few bay-leaves, fome cloves, and mace ; let it ftew till a ftraw will run through it; then take it up, and put to the liquor fome white wine and white wine vinegar, with an anchovy; let it fimmer till the anchovy is diffolved; when both are cold, put the pike into the pickle, which will jelly, and keep for fome time. CARP.