350 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. pour it into the jar to the grapes, which mud be well covered; fill the jar with vine-leaves, then tie it over with a double cloth, and fet a plate upon it; let it Hand two days, then take off the cloth, pour away the brine, and take out the leaves and the fruit, and lay them between two cloths to dry ; then take two quarts of vinegar, one quart of fpring-water, and one pound of coarfe fugar ; let it boil a little while, fcum it very clean as it boils; let it Hand till it is quite cold ; wipe the jar very clean and dry, put fome frefh vine-leaves at the bottom, between every bunch of grapes, and on the top, then pour and ftrain the pickle on the grapes ; Jill the jar ; let the pickle be above the grapes ; tie on a thin piece of board in a bit of flan- nel, lay it on the top of the grapes to keep them under the pickle: tie them down with a bladder, and then a leather: always keep them under the pickle. To pickle Suckers before the Leaves are hard. TAKE the fuckers, and pare off all the hard ends of the leaves and {talks; fcald them in fait and water, and when they are cold put them into glafs bottles, with two or three blades of large mace, and a nutmeg diced thin; fill them with diffilled vinegar. To pickle Suckers. TAKE the young fut :ers, peel off the leaves till the white bottom appears ; fcrape them as quick as can be, to prevent their turning black; take out all the choke clean with the point of a filver knife, and throw them as they are done into vinegar ; boil them in it a quarter of an hour, with fome mace, a few cloves, and a little fait: put a few bay-leaves into the jar or glafs they are kept in. The green fort are belt, as be taken out. they have no choke which need Beet Root. BOIL it till tender, peel it, and if agreeable, cut it into fhapes ; pour over it a hot pickle of white-wine vinegar, a lit- tle ginger, pepper, and horfe-radifli diced. Tc pickle Red Cabbage. TAKE two red cabbages, half a peck of French beans, fix fticks, with fix cloves of garlic tied on each of them, and two cauliflowers; wadi them well, and give them one boil; drain o them