THE LADV’s ASSISTANT. 269 vents their eating fo ftrong, and takes off the rawnefs# For fauce—gravy and apple fauce. Green Goofe roafied. A green goofe will not take more than three quarters of art hour atthefire. Unlefs it is particularly liked, it is not ufual to put any thing into it but a little pepper and fait, a little gravy in the dilh, and fome in a boat. There mull be green fauce in another boat, made as follows:—About half a pint of veal broth, the juice of an orange or lemon boiled up for fix or feven minutes, then put in fome juice of forrel, enough to make it green, and juft boil it up ; ftir it all the time for fear it fhould curdle, which it is apt to do, and it ought to be very fmooth* Goofe au Ragout. BK^EAK the breaft-bone of the goofe, and make it quite flat; when it is Ikinned, dip it into boiling water; feafon it wich pepper, fait, and a little mace beat to powder, lard it, and then flour it all over; take near a pound of beef-fuet, put it into a ftevv-pan, according to the fize of the goofe ; when melted, and boiling hot, put in the goofe; when it is brown all over* add to it a quart of beef gravy boiling hot, a bunch of fweet herbs, a blade of mace, a few cloves, fome whole pepper, two or three fmall onions, and a bay-leaf; cover it very clofe, and let it flew very foftly; an hour will do it if a fmall one, if a. large one it will take an hour and a half. Make a ragout for it as follows:—Some turnips and carrots cut as for a harrico of mutton, and fome onions, all boiled enough, half a pint of rich beef gravy; put them all into a faucepan, with fome pep- per, fait, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; let them ftew a quarter of an hour ; take the goofe out of the ftew-pan when done, drain it well from the liquor it was ftewed in, put it in a dilb, and pour the ragout over it. A Goofe a-la-Mode. TAKE a large ftubble goofe ; when it is picked, bone and flit it down the back; take a fowl, and do it in the fame man- ner; take alfo a neat’s tongue, boil and blanch it; feafon the fowl with pepper and fait, and beaten mace, and roll it round, the tongue, but firft put fome beef marrow over the tongue ^ then put the fowl into the goofe, and few it up; but put fame thin llices of ham or bacon round the fowl before it is put into J* the