THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. 405 with a little rofe- water ; take the whites of two eggs, beat to a froth, and fift the fugar into the eggs; put in the almonds, and drop them upon wafer; duft them over with fugar. To make little Plumb Cakes. TAKE two pounds of Hour dried, and half a pound of fugar finely powdered, four eggs, two whites, half a pound of butter > vvafhed with rofe-water, fix fpoonfuls of cream warmed, a pound and a half of currants wafhed and well dried ; mix all together, and make them up in little cakes, bake them in an oven almoft as hot as for manchet; let them Hand half an hour, till they are coloured on both fides; takedown the oven- jid, and let them (land a little to foak. To make Cheltenham Cakes. TAKE four pounds of flour, half a pound of butter, melt it in a pint of milk, two eggs well beat in half a pint of yeaft, a little fait; mix it well together, and fet it before the fire to rife three quarters of an hour; make them up, and fet them azain before the fire to rife, before they are fet into the oven. Three quarters of an hour will bake them in a quick oven. To make Bath Buns. 1 TAKE a little more than a pound of flour, fix eggs, fix fpoonfuls of ale-yeaft ; mix it with half the flour ; let it rife by the fire an hour ; take three quarters of a pound of butter, and rub in the other flour ; mix all together, ftir in it an ounce of carraway-comfits, ftrew fome on the tops of them : bake them on tin plates. Banbury Cakes. TAKE half a peck of fine flour, three pounds of currants, a pound and a half of butter, a quarter of a pound of fugar, a quarter of an ounce of cloves and mace, three quarters of a pint of ale-yeaft, and a little rofe-water ; boil as much milk as will ferve to knead it, and when it is almoft cold put in as many carraway-feeds as will thicken it; work all together at the fire, pulling it to pieces two or three times before it is made up. We til one Cakes. TAKE half a pound of fine flour, and the fame quantity of loaf fugar fifted, a pound of carraway-feeds dried, the yolk Dd3 . .f %