THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. To boil Carp au Court Bouillon. TAKE a brace of carp, fcale, draw, and pull out the fins, put them into an earthen pan; fet on a quart of vinegar, put in a tea-fpoonful of bay-falt: when it boils, pour it over the carp, and let them ftand till they are cold; then fet on vinegar enough in a ftew-pan to boil them in : when it boils, put them in,, and boil them gently till they are enough : before they are quite done, put in half a pint of white wine, with three bay-leaves, a fpoonful of white pepper, an onion, and four cloves ; let all boil together a little while, and when the carp is thoroughly done, take them up, and lay them on a napkin. Sauce—ftrain off the liquor; add to it an anchovy cleaned and boned, a little ftrong gravy, a few pickled mufhrooms, and a piece of butter rolled in flour : let it boil, and when of a pro- per thicknefs, pour it into a fauce-boat. Carp and Tench Jlewed white. TO one quart of boiled gravy, a quarter of a pint of Ma- deira, or white wine, a blade or two of mace, fome whole pepper, a bit of lemon-peel, and horfe-radifh, a large onion, and two anchovies ; let thefe fimmer very gently an hour or more ; ftrain it; put to it fo'me thick cream, a piece of butter mixed well with a large fpoonful of flour ; ftir this over the fire till the butter is melted, and the fauce boils up, or it will be greafy ; fqueeze in the juice of half a lemon; add more wine and fpice, if agreeable ; boil the fifh, drain it well, pour the fauce over it. Garnifh with lemon. Carp and Tench jlewed brown. CLEAN and dry them ; flour and fry them a nice brown, and dry : fimmer for a quarter of an hour three pints of good gravy, a full pint of red wine, a few cloves, a piece of horfe- radifh, a good onion, a little chyan, fome ketchup ; put in the fifh, ftew them gently till enough, clofe covered ; take them out, ftrain the fauce ; add fome of the roe bruifed, and, if not thick enough, a little flour mixed fmooth with a little gravy; boil this up, lay in the fifh, fet it over the fire for a minute or two. Garnifh with the roe boiled, or made into cakes as be- fore, lemon and horfe-radifh. To bake Carp. WHEN the carp are fcaled, gutted, and wafhed, take a deep earthen