152 THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. a lemon, pepper, fait, a little macc, and a flice or two of boiled ham ; let this flew till the veal is tender ; drain the liquor through apiece of dimity, the rough fide upward, firft dipped in cold water ; then boil in it two ounces of ifinglafs, and add lemon-juice, wine, &c. as may be neceflary : pafs it through a bag: the veal Ihould be wiped clean before it is cold, and may be put into the jelly in the fame manner as a chicken ; or lay the veal in a plate, break the jelly a little, and heap upon it. Veal Ham. TAKE a leg of veal, cut ham-fafhion, two ounces of fait petre, one pound of bay, and one of common fait, and one ounce of juniper-berries bruifed ; rub it well into the veal; lay the fkinny fide dow'nwards at firft, but let it be well rubbed and turned every day for a fortnight, and then let it be hung in wood fmoke for a fortnight. It may be boiled, or parboiled and roafted. i CALVES HEADS. Calf’s Head boiled. WASH it very clean, parboil one half, beat up the yolk of an egg, and rub it over the head with a feather, then ftrew over it a feafoning of pepper, fait, thyme, parfley chopt fmall, fhred lemon-peel, grated bread, and a little nutmeg ; flick bits of butter over it, and fend it to the oven ; boil the other half white in a cloth, put them both into a difli; boil the brains in a bit of cloth, with a very little parfley, and a leaf or two of fage ; when they are boiled, chop them fmall, and warm them up in a faucepan, with a bit of butter, and a little pepper and fait; lay the tongue, boiled and peeled, in the middle of a fmall difli, and the brains round it; have in another difli bacon or pickled pork ; greens and carrots in another. To haft* a Calf ’s Head, white. BOIL half a calf’s head in milk and water, cut it in flices; when cold flour it, and put it into a ftew-pan, with fome veal gravy, a little beaten mace, a little fait, a few morells, a few artichoke-bottoms parboiled, fome oyfters with their beards taken off, ftewed in a good piece of butter rolled in flour; put in the liquor, the yolks of two eggs well beat, half a pint of cream; ftir all together till it is of a good thicknels, and v ' * . JY'T /