THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. 419 them ; then cut off the ftalks, place them one by one in glafles ; fcrape as much fugar as will cover them, then fill them up with wine ; fet them in a ftove to f\vell> and they are fit for ufe. Another way. TAKE fix pounds of cherries, ftone them ; put to them half a pound of the beft powder fugar, and boil them together; when they are enough, lay them one by one on the back-fide of a fieve, fet them to dry in an oven after the bread is drawn ; when dry, put them in a ftove to keep : if any liquor is left, do more cherries. They will keep their colour all the year. To pteferve Cherries in Jelly. TAKE green goofeberries, flit them on the fide, that part of the liquor may run out; put them into pots, and put in with them two or three fpoonfuls of water ; flop the pots very clofe, and put them in a fkillet of water over the fire, till the goofeberries have a liquor as clear as water : half a pound of goofeberries will make this liquor :—Take a pound of cherries Honed, one pound of double-refined fugar beat fmall; ftrew fome at the bottom of a bafon, then a layer of cherries, cover them over with fugar, keep fome to throw over them as they boil ; put to the cherries five or fix fpoonfuls of goofeberry li- quor, fet them over the fire, boil them very foftly at firft, till the fugar is melted, and afterwards very faft ; fcum them very well; when it jellies on the fpoon, it is enough. Half a pound is enough to do at a time. / Cherry Pajle. TAKE two pounds of morella cherries, ftone them, prefs out the juice, dry them in a pan, and mafh them before the fire ; then weigh them, and take their weight in fugar bea very fine; heat them over a flow fire till the fugar is well mixed, then fhape them on plates or glafles; dufl: them when cold, and put them into a ftove to dry. To dry Cherries. TO five pounds of morella cherries ftoned, put one pound of double-refined fugar pounded, a very little water ; put all together over the fire, making it fcalding hot; take the cherries immediately out of the liquor ; dry them on a cloth ; put them again into the pan, ftrewing fugar between every layer; when E c 2 the