THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 245 Anchovy fauce.——Or, do it whole, done with the above in- gredients, turned round and fkewered ; then broiled, or roalled in a Dutch oven.—Anchovy lauce. To fry Eels. CUT them in pieces ; feaion them with pepper, fait, and nutmeg; flour them, fry them in butter. They are a pretty o-arniih for mod fifti.— If they are fmall, turn them round, and fry them whole. To bake Eels. TAKE the eels, ftrip and clean them ; take a fliallow pan, and cut the eels in lengths according to the depth of the pan ; put them in, and let them ftand upright in it; it fhould be full : put in a little water, fome fait, pepper, efchalots cut fmall, fome fweet herbs, and a little parfley cut fmall ; fet them into the oven to bake : when they are done, take the liquor that comes from them, put it into a faucepan, and thicken it with a jffece of butter rolled in flour, and a little white wine. Eels a-la-'Daube. TAKE three large eels, and a brace of large tench, clean the fkins of the eels well with fait, and wafh them in two or three waters; then cut one open, and ftrip the fkin of; lay it fiat, pick the flefh of the eel and of the tench from the bones ; mince and feafon it with pepper, fait, cloves, and mace; grate in three parts of a nutmeg; cut the flefh of two more eels into long pieces, fuch as are cut for larding ; cut open another, fkin, and lay that flat ; then cut out the flefh of a couple of large eels into long flips ; then lay a Jayer of eel upon the firft fkin, and then a layer of minced-meat; upon this put more eel, and upon them more minced-meat, till all is ufed: prefs it down with the hand, and lay over it the other lkins ; tie them round tight, and in fuch a manner that the whole may be kept en- tire; then wrap it carefully up in a linen cloth, and put it into a faucepan with fome fifh broth; fet it over a flow fire, and let it ftew flowly for fome time : when it is three-parts done, pour in a pint of red wine, and put in half a dozen cloves, a couple of bay-leaves broke, fome whole white pepper, and fait; cover up the faucepan, and let thefe ftew till the eels are quite done ; then take it off, and let it all cool together. This difli the French eat inftead of our collared eels : they cut it into flices: it looks very nice, and cats well. *3 Collared