THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 195 pan, with as much beef gravy as will cover them : fet the fauce- pan on a moderate fire, cover them very clofe, arid let them flew two hours; then fet on a large frying-pan, with a quar- ter of a pound of butter; fhake in fome flour, and (fir it till it is brown : peel a couple of ortions, put them into the butter, and ftir it well about; when thefe are fried brown, pour in a quart of veal gravy, mix them all well together; foak fome crufts of French rolls in the gravy where the favoys are ftewed, and lay them at a little diftance from each other ; then pour in the gravy and onions. This is a very rich good foup. Hop-top Soup. TAKE a large quantity of hop-tops, in April, when they are in their greateft perfection ; tie them in bunches twenty or thirty in a bunch ; lay them in fpring-water for an hour or two, drain them well from the water, and put them to fome thin peafe foup; boil them well, and add three fpoonfuls of the juice of onions, fome pepper, and fait; let them boil fome time longer; when done, foak fome crufts of bread in the broth, and lay them in the tureen, then pour in the foup. This is a plain foup, but very good ; the French pour in fome cray-fifh cullis. Brown Turnip Soup. CUT four pounds of gravy-beef in thin flices, put it into a ftew-pan, with a little fat bacon; fry it brown, put in two turnips and one fliced carrot; when it is brown, and the gravy runs from it, put into the pan fome good beef broth, cloves, mace, pepper, a bunch of fweet herbs, four young onions, and a fprig of parlley; let thefe flew till the gravy is very rich, then ftrain it through a fieve : have ready a duck half-roafted, put it whole into the foup ; then cut fome turnips like dice, and fry them brown in butter; put them into the foup, let the duck ftew in the foup till it is enough ; ferve it up with the duck in the middle. Soup with Sorrel and Eggs. TAKE a knuckle of veal, and the chump end of a loin of mutton, with a bunch of fweet herbs, pepper, fait, cloves, and mace; ftew it very flowly till it is rich and ftrong ; ftrain it off, and put into it a young fowl; cover it, and let it ftew . again very flowly; then take two or three handfuls of forrel well wafhed, cut it in pieces, not too fmall; fry it in butter, O 2 and