THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 13i ftale fmall beer, Tome mace, long pepper, and fait; put In the Beef, and keep it for ufe. Cut a piece off each end when it is fent to table. If it is to be kept, make a frefh pickleevery week. Beuf a la Vinegrette. CUT a dice of Beef from the round three inches thick, with very little fat; flew it in water and a glafs of white wine, fea- foned with fait, pepper, cloves, a bunch of fvveet herbs, and a bay-leaf; let it boil till the liquor is almoft confumed, and when it is cold ferve it up ; what liquor remains, ftrain it off and mix it with a little vinegar. T0 pot Beef. TAKE two pounds of lean Beef, cut it into flices, and lay them upon a plate, feafon them with fait and falt-petre and a little cochineal ; turn and feafon them on the other fide, then let them lie one upon another all night, put them into a pan ; add to them half a pint of fmall beer, a little vinegar, as much water as will cover them ; let there be in the pickle fome black and Jamaica pepper, cover them very clofe and bake them ; when they are baked, take the flices out of the pickle while they are hot, let them lie till cold, then beat them in a mortar, add to them a pound of frefh butter while they are beating ; alfo fome fait, pepper, and nutmeg ; when they are well beat, put them into the pot, and when the bread is drawn, put it into the oven until it is hot through ; when it is cold cover it over with clarified butter, and it will keep a month or two. Another way. RUB the leg of mutton piece of beef, or part of it, with a little falt*petre, let it lie twenty-four hours ; wafh and dry it, cut it into pieces, put it into a pan with a little water at the bottom, fome butter laid in lumps at the top ; tie over it a thick piece of paper, bake it till tender ; take it out v/hile hot, free from gravy, pick out all the finews and fat, beat it in a mortar, with pepper, fait, a few pounded cloves ; add in the beating the butter which cakes upon the gravy, and what more is neceffary to make it mellow ; it muff be beat fine and be well feafoned ; put it down in pots, fet it for five minutes in- to a flack oven, pour over clarified butter, 'To pot cold Beef. CU F it fmall, add to it fome melted butter, two anchovies boned and wafhed, a little Jamaica pepper beat fine ; put them K 2 into \ /