THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. 479 * The tafte 5 but as fome adulterations of this nature have certainly been prac- ticed, the following experiments may ferve to gratify curiofity, or dil'cover frauds, where uny fucllcxilt. “ To difeover whether flour be adulterated with whiting or chalk, mix with it fome juice of lemon or good vinegar. If the flour be pure, they will remain together at reft ; but: if there be a mixture of whiting or chalk, a fermentation, like the working of yeafl, will enfue. The adulterated meal is whiter and heavier than the good : the quantity that an ordinary tea- difh will contain has been found to weigh more than the fame quantity of genuine flour, by four drachmsand 19 grains Troy. “ The regular method to detect thefle frauds in bread is this:—Cut the crumb of a loaf into very thin dices $ break them, but not into very finall pieces, and put them into a glafs cucurbit, with a large quantity of water. Set this, without (baking, in a fand furnace, and let it (land, with a mode- rate warmth, four-and-twenty-hours. The crumb of the bread will in this time loften in all its parts, and the ingredients will ieparate from it. The alum will diflolve in the water, and may be extracted from it in the ufual way. The jalap, if any have been ufed, will fwim upon the top in a coarfe film 5 and the other ingredients, being heavy, will fink to the bottom. This is the beft and molt regular method of finding the deceit: but as cucurbits, and land furnaces, are not at hand in private families, there is a more fami- liar method. “ Let the crumb of a loaf be diced, as before directed, and put it, with a great deal of water, into a large earthen pipkin. Let this be fet over a very gentle fire, and kept a long time moderately hot ; and the pap being poured eif, the bone aflies, or other ingredients, will be found at the bottom.” On WATER. IT is a long-eftabliflied obfervation, that the beft waters boil and cool again the Iqoneft; and that they evaporate in the leaft time, and with the leaft degree of heat. A well-known mark of the purity of water is its foftnefs. This quality is dilcoverable by the touch, if we only wafh our hands in it : and the dis- tinction between hard and foft water generally arifes from its difficult or eafy union with oily fubftances. J Soft water is the molt proper for the waffiing and bleaching of linen, the maxing of paper, and for molt medicinal purpofes. It mixes’ more uniform- J/ with milk, and does not curdle it, as hard waters frequently do. It boils peak and beans fofter, and mixes better with flour, rice, oatmeal, ’&c. In bo'l'nn ^eedat’ rtg'V** Jt a more agreeable colour than hard water, which often There are however feme purpofes, to which hard water is more proper: ’ 1 kf"ds. oFudyl,ng 5 in makmS (hrcl1; an‘l in the rinfingof loap out of linen, after it has been wafhed ; as it is obferved to give the linen a better colour, and an agreeable firmnels or crifpnefs ; but the linen thus treated requires more foap, when it comes to be wafhed again. Hard water J,“l a fira,"'ls M a"for,s of