THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 37e meat from the bones, and chop it very fine ; then add the fj-unib of a penny-loaf grated, a ^sound of beef-fuct fined fmall, half a pint of crearn, feven eggs, a pound of currants, four ounces of citron cut fmall, two ounces of candied orange- peel cut like ft raws, a nutmeg, a large glafs of brandy ; butter the cloth and flour it 5 tie it clofe; it fhould boil three hours. Bifcuit Pudding. POUR a pint of boiling cream or milk over three penny Naples bifeuits grated 3 cover it clofe 3 when cold, add the yolks of four eggs, two whites, nutmeg, a little brandy, half a fpoonful of flo°ur, fome fugar; boil this one hour in a china bafon 3 ferve it with melted butter, wine, and fugar. A Prune Pudding. MIX four fpoonfuls of flour into a quart of milk, fix eggs, only three of the whites, a little fait, two tea-fpoonfuls of beaten ginger, a pound of prunes ; tie it in a cloth; boil it an hour.—Damfons may be ufed inftead of prunes, but then fugar muft be added. A very good common Pudding, with Currants. A POUND of currants, a pound of fuet, five eggs, four fpoonfuls of flour, half a nutmeg, a tea-fpoonful of ginger, a little powder fugar, a little fait 3 boil this three hours. An excellent Plum Pudding. ONE pound of fuet, the fame of currants, the fame of raifins ftoned, the yolks of eight eggs, the whites of four, the crumb of a penny-loaf grated, one pound of flour, half a nutmeg, a tea-fpoonful of grated ginger, a little fait, a fmall glafs of brandy ; beat the eggs firft, mix them with fome milk 3 by degrees add the flour and other ingredients, and what more milk may be neceflary 3 it muft be very thick and well ftirred 3 boil it five hours. A Hunting Pudding. MIX a pound of flour with a pint of cream, and eight eggs that have been well beaten, a pound of beef-fuet, the fame of currants, half a pound of raifins ftoned and chopped, two ounces of candied citron, two ounces of candied orange cut fmall, a nutmeg, aad a glafs of brandy 3 boil this four hours. AppU B b 3