466 THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. ahd if it is not clear, let it (land in the bottles for fome time, and then rack it off into other bottles—when it is drawn out of the cafk it muff not be tapped too low. ‘ . • JiLj*. K- * n Grape Wine. TO a gallon of grapes put a gallon of water; bruife the grapes, let them ftand a week without ftirring, then draw it off hue ; put to a gallon of the wine three pounds of fugar, and then put it in a veffel, but do not flop it till it has done bif- fing. Elder Wine. TAKE fixteen pounds of Malaga raifins, pick and chop them very fmall ; take fix pounds of powder fugar, and five gallons of water; boil them all together a quarter of an hour, then pour the liquor boiling hot upon the raifins : ftir them well together, and let them ftand ten days, flirring it well every day ; then ftrain the liquor, and prefs out the raifins ; add to each gallon a pint of the pure juice of elder-berries; put to it a very little ale-yeaft fpread on a bit of toaft, juft enough to make it move, not to work up ; let it ftand two or three days to ferment, then tun it up irito a veffel, but let it not be full, that there may be room for it to work ; ftop it clofe, let it ftand to be thoroughly fine, and then bottle it. Another very excellent Receipt for Elder Wine. TAKE Malaga raifins, cut them fmall, the ftalks, ftones, &c. and put them all together into a tub ; pour over them water that has boiled an hour; to every fix pounds of raifins put one gallon of water, pour it on boiling hot, and ftir it well ; when it is cold, cover it with a cloth, and let it work ten or twelve days, ftirring it five or fix times a day : then ftrain the liquor from the raifins, and fqueeze them hard : and put to every gallon of liquor one pint of clear juice of elder :— the beft way to get the juice, is to bake the berries in earthen pots—let the liquors be cold when they are put together, and ftir them well ; then tun it up, and when it has done working clay it up ; let it ftand four or five months before it is bottled ; in fix weeks after it will be fit to drink ; the elder berries moft be very ripe. Cherry