128 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. and more water, fix cloves, a large onion, a bunch of fweet herbs, a carrot, a turnip, pepper, and fait; flew this very gent- ly (clofe covered) four or five hours, but take care the meat does not goto rags by doing too faft ; take up the meat, ftrain the fauce over it ; have turnips cut into balls, and carrots cut into any fhape and boiled, which lay on the meat. It is a very good and cheap difih. Beef Steaks rolled. TAKE fome beef fteaks, what quantity is wanted, beat them with a cleaver to make them tender ; make fome force- meat with a pound of veal beat fine in a mortar, the flefh of a fowl, half a pound of cold ham or gammon of bacon, fat and lean, the kidney-fat of a loin of veal, and a fweetbread, all cut very fmall ; fome truffles and morells ftewed and then cut fmall, two efchalots, fome parfiey, a little thyme, fome lemon- peel, the yolks of four eggs, a nutmeg grated, and half a pint of cream ; mix thefe all together, and ftir them over a flow fire for ten minutes ; put them upon the fteaks, and roll them up, then fkewer them tight, put them into the frying-pan, and fry them of a nice brown ; then take them from the fat, and put them into a ftew-pan with a pint of good drawn gravy, a fpoon- ful of red wine, two of ketchup, a few pickled mufhrooms, and let them ftew for a quarter of an hour; take up the fteaks, cut them in two, lay the cut fide uppermoft. Garnifti with lemon. Beef Olives. CUT fteaks from the rump or infide of the firloin, half an inch thick, about fix inches long, and four or five broad, beat them a little, rub them over with yolk of egg, ftrew on bread crumbs, parfley chopped, lemon-peel Aired, pepper and fait, chopped fuet or marrow, grated nutmeg ; roll them up tight, fkewer them, fry or brown them in a Dutch oven ; ftew them in fome beef broth or gravy until tender, thicken the gravy with a little flour ; add ketchup, and a little lemon-juice. To enrich them, add pickled mufhrooms, hard yolks ol eggs, and force-meat balls. Beef Collops ftewed. CUT the collops as Scotch collops, they are good from the thick flank, but more fo from the middle of the rump; beat them with a rolling-pin, put them into a ftew-pan with a little water, a glafs of white wine, two efchalots fhred, a little 7 ° grated