THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 135 To pickle Beef. TAKE a piece of beef, fticlc it all over with garlick and cloves, feafon it well with fait, mace, and all-fpice, cover the meat with vinegar, and turn it every day for a fortnight; as the vinegar waltes, add more; then put it in a ftew-pot, with fome vinegar and white wine, cover it down very clofe, flew it fix hours,"if a large piece ; add vinegar and white wine to it as it flews, if neceflary : fome onions fhould be ftewed to eat with it. To pickle Beef which will keep. Five or Six Months. A round, or any piece of beef.— Take out the bones, beat fine fome juniper-berries, nutmeg, mace, cloves, pepper, Ja- maica pepper, and fait, a few bay-leaves (if agreeable), mix thefe ingredients well together, and flice in fome garlick and efchalot, rub the beef well all over with it in every part ; let it lie in this feafoning a week or ten days, in a veffel for that pur- pofe ; then boil fome of the beft white wine vinegar, and when it is cold, put it to the beef, cover it down very clofe ; if it is to go abroad, it mull be covered with oil, and put into a barrel well hooped, the meat, pickle, and feafoning, diredlly when the vinegar is poured on it. It may be either roafted or ftewed, but ftewed is beft ; ftew the meat, and fome onions cut fmall, a little while, and then add fome white wine, fome good gravy, a piece of butter roiled in flour, ftir it all together, and ftew it till the meat is tender. Some ftew the meat and onions in oil before the other ingredients are put in ; it is reckoned the beft way. Ox Heart. MIX bread crumbs, chopt fuet (or a bit of butter), parfley chopt, fweet-marjoram, lemon-peel grated, pepper, fait, and nutmeg, with yolk, of egg ; fluff the heart, and bake or roaft it with a poor man’s jack. Serve it with gravy, a little red wine in it, melted butter, and currant jelly in boats. Some lard it with bacon. Tripe. BOIL it with a few fmall onions; ferve it in the liquor; melted butter in a boat. Or dip it in batter and fry it. Tripe a la Fricaffee. LET it be very white, cut it into flips, put it into fome boiled gravy with a little cream, and a bit of butter mixed with K 4 flour, r !