THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 151 feduced, put in a pint of mountain ami fome bruifed mace 3 let it boil up two or three times, then take it ofF, and fet it to cool in the liquor : when it is quite cold, take off the napkin and fet by the veal. Some like it lent to table whole, but it is better cut in flices. T0 boil Veal like Sturgeon. TAKE a final! delicate fillet of veal, from a cow calf; take off the Ikin, and then lard it all over, top, bottom, and fides, with fome bacon and ham 3 put into a ftew-pan fome flices of bacon and veal ; ftrew over them fome pepper, fait, and fweet herbs 3 then put in the fillet with as much broth as will juft cover them 5 cover the ftew-pan very clofe, and let them fim- mer very gently : when the veal is near enough, put in a bottle of white wine, an onion Aired, a few cloves, a little mace 3 put on the cover of the ftew-pan, fet it over a ftove, and lay fome charcoal upon it 3 when it has been kept hot ten minutes, take it off the fire, and remove the charcoal. If it is intended to be eat hot, the following fauce muft be made while it is ftewing— Set on a fauce-pan, with a glafs of gravy, a glafs and a half of vinegar, half a lemon, fliced, a large onion fliced, and a good deal of pepper and fait 3 boil this a few minutes, and ftrain it 3 lay the meat in a difh, and pour the fauce over it. If it is to be eat cold, it muft not be taken out of the liquor it is ftewed in, but fet by to cool all night, and it will be exceeding good. To pot Veal. TAKE a part of a knuckle or fillet of veal, that has been ftewed, or bake it on purpofe for potting 3 beat it to a pafte, with butter, fait, white pepper, and mace, pounded 3 prefs it. down in pots, and pour over it clarified butter. Marbled Veal. DO the veal as above 3 boil a tongue very tender, flice it, beat it with butter, white pepper, and mace pounded 3 put a layer of veal in the pot, then flick in lumps of tongue3 fill up the fpaces v/ith the veal, pour over clarified butter. It makes a pretty dilh fliced. Veal in Jelly. CUT a piece out of the leg 3 put it into a ftew-pan, with as much veal broth as will be fufficient for the jelly 5 when reduced, fome Madeira, an onion, a bunch of fweet herbs, half L 4 a lemon. I