THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 32* but half the quantity left; put In a glafs of white wine ; ftrain it off, and if not thick enough, put in a piece of butter rolled in flour. It is very good with roafted fowls, and fome like it with butchers meat. Ham Sauce. WHEN a ham is almoft done with, pick all the meat clean from the bone, and beat it well with a rolling-pin to a rnafh ; put it into a faucepan, with three fpoonfuls of gravy; fet it over a flow fire, but keep ftirring it all the while, for it will flick to the bottom ; when it has been on fome time, add a irnall bundle of fweet herbs, and fome pepper, with half a pint of beef-gravy; cover it up, and let it Hew over a gentle fire ; when it is quite done, ftrain off the gravy. This is a very good fauce for veal. Sauce for any Kind of roafted Meat. TAKE an anchovy, wafli it, put to it a glafs of red wine, fome gravy, an elchalot cut fmall, and a little juice of lemon ; ltew thefe a little together, and pour it to the gravy that runs from the meat. Sauce for a Shoulder of Mutton. WHEN the fhoulder of mutton is more than half-done, put a plate under it, with fome fpring-water in it, two or three fpoonfuls of red wine, a fliced onion, a little grated nutmeg, an anchovy wafhed and minced, and a bit of butter ; let the meat drop into it; when it is taken up, put to it a fpoonful of vinegar ; put the fauce into a faucepan, give it a boil up, ftrain it through a fieve, and put it under the mutton. , Sauce for Steaks. TAKE a glafs of fmall beer, two anchovies, a little thyme, fome favory, a little parfley, an onion, and fome nutmeg, with a little lemon-peel ; cut thefe all together; when the fteaks are ready, pour the fat out of the pan, and put in the fmall-beer, with the other ingredients, and a piece of butter rolled in flour ; let it ftmmer, and then ftrain it over the fteaks. Hutch Sauce for Meat or Fifth. PUT fome v/ater and vinegar into a faucepan, with a piece of butter, thicken it with the yolks of a couple of eggs, fqueeze into it the juice of a lemon, and ftrain it through a fieve. Y 3 Green