THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 129 Beef K grated lemon-peel, a little dried marjoram rubbed to pieces, fome fait and pepper (remember to have fome fat cut to the collops) fet them over a quick fire until the pan is full of gravy, turn them, and they will be done in ten minutes ; fome mufliroom pickle may be added, if it is liked ; they are eat with pickles. The infide of a furloin of beef after it is roafted may be done the fame way. . * t Beef hafhed. BOIL a little beer and water, with an efchalot, two or three cloves, and a bit of lemon-peel ; {train it, cut the beef thin, and flour it ; add pepper, fait, a little ketchup, and garlic vi- negar ; fimmer thefe together, fhaking the pan round, then put in the meat; make it quite hot, but do not let it boil ; add what gravy may have run from the meat. Garnifh with pickles and toafted bread. The Dutch way of falting Beef. TAKE a lean piece of Beef and rub it well with brown fugar (fome pour treacle over it) let it lie at leaft two days, turning it very often; then wipe it, and fait it with common, fait and falt-petre, beat the falt-petre fine, rub it well in, and turn it every day for fourteen or fifteen days, then roll it very tight in a coarfe cloth, and prefs it down with a large weight; hang it to dry in a chimney, but turn it the bottom upwards every day ; then boil it in pump-water ; it will cut into Ihivers like Dutch Beef. Hung Beef. THE proper piece is that called the navel-piece : it mud be hung up in a cellar until it is a little damp, but not long enough to change; take it down, and wafh it very well in brown fugar and water, dry it with a cloth, cut it into two or three pieces ; take half a pound of brown fugar, two pounds of bay-falt dried and pounded final], fix ounces of falt-petre dried and beat fine, rub it well into the Beef, then ftrew common fait all over it, as much as will make it fait enough ; let it lie together ten days, changing the pieces the bottom to the top; hang it where it may have the warmth of the fire, but not too near ; when it is drefled, boil it in hay and pump-water, until tender : it will keep two or three months, if when mouldy it is dipped in boiling water.