THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 333 fhake them round ; take a dozen and a half of blanched al- monds, and the crumb of two b rench rolls foaked tirft in good fifh-broth ; pound them with the roots in a mortar, then boil all together ; feafon them with pepper and fait, and ftrain it off, and ule it for herb or fifh foups. Strong Jelly to keep. TAKE a leg of beef, and two fhins, cut in pieces, a knuckle of veal; chop it all to pieces ; one or two old cocks or hens fkinned, and two calf’s feet, to ten quarts of water; boil it down to a ftrong jelly, feum it well ; add to it fome fait, and run it through a jelly-bag till it is clear. FORCED MEAT. TAKE an equal quantity of lean veal feraped, and beef- fuet fhred ; beat thefe together in a marble mortar ; add pep- per, fait, cloves pounded, lemon-peel and nutmeg grated, par- iley and favoury herbs chopped, a little efchalot and young onion, if agreeable, a few fine crumbs of bread and yolk of egg, (according to the quantity wanted) to work it light; roll this into balls with a little flour: boil them for white fauce, fry them for brown. „ Forced-meat of Eel. TAKE two fine filver eels, broil them till they are near enough, then throw them into cold water : broil a perch ; when it is near enough, lay it to cool; take the meat from the bones of both the fifh, and mince it; mince the liver of a cod, and add to them, then feafon them with pepper and fait; put to them fome fv/eet herbs picked from the ftalks, fome fmall onions minced, fome feraped bacon, a little veal fuet, a few crumbs of bread, and a piece of butter ; put all into a mortar, and beat it to a pafte •, it is proper for fifh pies, and adds a fine relifh to all made-difhes of fifh, of whatever kind. It is like- wife rolled up in balls, and fried or ftewed. Forced-meat of Pigeons. ROAST four pigeons; when they are half-done, take them up, and fet them to cool ; when they are quite cold, take the meat of the breaft and rurnp, cut it in pieces, and put it into a marble mortar ; peel half a dozen middling mufhrooms, cut them in pieces, and put them to the pigeons ; put fome veal- fuet