pour I THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. 345 four hours, then take them out, lay them upon a cloth and dry them; wipe the jar clean, put in the cucumbers, with a little dill and fennel; then takefome vinegar; to -..very three quarts, put in one quart of fpring-water, till there is enough to cover them ; put in a little bay fait, and a little white fait; to every gallon of pickle put one nutmeg cut in quarters, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, and the fame of mace, a quarter of an ounce of whole pepper, and a large race of ginger diced : boil thefe all up together; pour the pickle boiling hot upon the cucumbers, and cover them as before. Let them {land two days, then cover them again ; if they are not green, boil them ao-ain,and when cold, cover them with a bladder and leather: keep pickles always clofe covered, and under the pickle; a •wooden fpoon,- with holes in it, is the belt thing to take them out with. N. B. Obferve not to boil the fpice, but to pour the boiling vinegar over it. Sliced Cucumbers. PARE them, and dice them a little thicker than for the table ; put them into a cullender, with a handful of fait; the next day dry them, put them into ajar with diced onion, and horfe-radifh in layers. Make a pickle with white wine vinegar, mace, cloves, nutmeg diced, and whole pepper ; boil this half an hour, and pour it on the cucumbers immediately: if they are to look as if frefh cut, ufe double diftilled vinegar; but they eat quite as well with white-wine vinegar. Onions. - ' PEEL fmall onions into fait and water ; fhift them once a day for three days, then fet them over the tire in milk and wa- ter till ready to boil ; dry them ; pour over them the following pickle when boiled, and cold—Double dillilled vinegar, fait, mace, a bay-leaf or two; they will not loo^t white with any other vinegar. Mujhrooms. PU 1 fome buttons into milk and water, wipe them from it with a piece of flannel, and throw them into fpring-water and fait; boil fome fait and water, put in the buttons, boil them up four or five minutes; drain them quick ; cover them clofe between two cloths, and dry them well ; boil a pickle of dou- ble diftilled vinegar and mace; when cold, put in the buttons;