THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 465 and muft be looked at once a week : as it fometimes works in the veflel, it muft have air by a vent. Vino Pontificate. STEEP the zeft rinds of fix oranges and fix lemons twenty- four hours in a gallon of good brandy, clofe flopped ; boil on« pound and a half of loaf-fugar in two gallons of water a quar- ter of an hour, and clarify it with the whites of ten eggs % when it is cold add the juice of twenty-four oranges and five lemons to the gallon of brandy ; then mix it all together, and ftrain off the rinds : put the liquor into a calk well flopped j after fix weeks draw it off into bottles, it will then be fit for ufe, but grows better for keeping. Raifin Wine. THREE hundred and a half of Malaga raifins, fixty-fix: gallons of water, in a large tub with a falfe bottom ; let them Hand for twenty-two or twenty-three days, ftirring them once or twice a day ; then draw them off into a clean hogfliead, and let them work as long as they will, filling the hogfhead full every day for five or fix months; then rack the liquor into another calk, and put to it two gallons of brandy. Red. Raifin Wine. TO every gallon of water boiled, and cold, put five pounds of velvedores ; let it ftand fourteen days, ftirring it twice a day, then prefs it off; if there is no prefs, it muft be ftrained through a cloth ; work in it a toaft fpread with yeaft, for two days, and then put it into a cafk—it muft not be flopped till it has done working; when it is fine, bottle it off. The raifins muft be chopped before they are foaked. Goofieberry Wine. TO every three pounds of ripe goofeberries, put a pint of fpring water unboiled ; firft bruife the fruit with the hands in, a tub, and then put the water to them ; ftir them very well, and let them ftand a day, then ftrain them out; and to every three pounds of goofeberries and pint of water, put a pound of fugar; ftir it till the fugar is diftolved, and let it ftand twenty- four hours more, then feum the top clear off; put the liquor in a veflel, and the feum into a flannel bag, and what runs from it, put into the veflel ; it muft work two or three days, and then be flopped clofe. Let it ftand four months before it is bottled ; II h ani