THE LADY’s ASSISTANT.. 359 Giblet Pie. CLEAN the giblets very well; -put all but the liver into a faucepan, with fome water, a little whole pepper, an onion, a little fait, and a bunch of fvveet herbs ; let them ftew till tender, clofe covered ; lay a puff pafte in the difh ; then a rump fteak peppered and falted ; then the giblets feafoned, with the liver; add the liquor they were ftewed in, clofe the pie; bake it about two hours ; when it is drawn pour in the gravy : the fteak may be omitted. A Dutch Pie MAY be made as either of the goofe pies, omitting the /owl j or with puli' palle, A common Chicken Pie. CUT a chicken or two into pieces ; feafon high with pep- per and fait; puff pafte at the bottom of the difh : ftick on the chicken here and there a bit of butter ; fill the difh with wa- ter, cover it; bake it in a moderate oven. It may be made richer by putting in gravy inftead of water. A rich Chicken Pie. LAY a puff pafte at the bottom of the difh, and upon that round the fide a thin layer of forced-meat. Seafon high with pepper and fait two fmall chickens cut into pieces ; put fome of the pieces into the diflu; then a fweetbread or two cut into piece , and well feafoned, a few truffles and morells, fome ar- tichoke bottoms cut each into four pieces, then the remainder of the cmckens, fome forced-meat balls, yolks of eggs boiled hard, chopped a little, and ftrewed over the top, a little water; cover the pie: when it comes from the oven pour in a rich gravy, thickened with a little flour and butter. If agreeable, add to the pie frefh mufhrooms, afparagus tops, and cocks- combs. N. B. The chickens are very excellent larded with bacon, and fluffed with fweet herbs, pepper, nutmeg, and mace ; they are only then flit down, and laid into the pie. Pigeon Pie. SEASON the pigeons extremely well, infide and out, put a bit of butter into each ; lay them in the difh on a puff pafte, the breads downwards, the gizzards and livers all together in the middle of the difh 3 put in fome water, clofe the pie, bake A a 4 it