THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 347 ounce of mace, the fame of whole black pepper ; pour the vi- negar boiling hot upon the walnuts, and cover them with a woollen cloth ; let it (land four or five days, and repeat the fame four or five times ; when the vinegar is cold, put in half a pint of mu (lard-feed, a flick of horfc-radifh fl iced, tie them down clofe with a bladder, and then with a leather; they will be fit to eat in three weeks; if they are defigned to be kept, the vinegar mull not be boiled, but then they will not be ready under fix months. French Beans. FOUR over them a boiling hot brine, cover them clofe; the next day drain and dry them ; pour over them a boiling hot pickle of white wine vinegar, Jamaica peppe’", and black pep- per, a little mace and ginger ; repeat this for two or three days, j or till they look green. Mangoes of Melons or Cucumbers. POUR ovpr them fait and water boiling hot; the next day dry them ; cut a piece out of the fide, fcrape out the feed very clean ; fill them with garlic, Icraped horfe-radifb, and muftard- feed ; put in the piece, and tie it in clofe, then pour over them boiling-hot vinegar : in two or three days boil up the vinegar, with pepper, cloves, and ginger ; throw in the mangoes ; boil them up quick for a few minutes ; put them into a jar ; cover them clofe : the melons fhould be final 1 ; the cucumbers large. If they are not green enough, boil the vinegar again. Another Way to pickle H.angoes. TAKE out the feeds of either melons or cucumbers, wipe them quite dry, fiil them with muftard-feed, a little garlic, two cloves of efchalot, nutmeg and ginger fliced, fome mace, whole pepper, and cloves, with a little fait; then tie or few on. the piece, put them into a jar with cold vinegar (enough to cover them) and a good quantity of made muftard, a handful of lalt, and two or three bay-leaves ; let them ftand nine days, then boil up the pickle, and pour it on the mangoes ; on the third day boil it up again, and pour'it on the mangoes, let them ftand tube C' id, and then tic them down clofe. if they are liked green, they muft be done juft before they are ufed : put them into a brafs or bell metal pot, and let them feald over the fire till they are of a fine green, but be fure not to let them boil. Garlic