THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 189 with carrots, and the other ingredients, makes very good foup j a little fmall beer is an addition to all brown foups. / A cheap Soup. TWO pounds of lean beef, fix onions, fix potatoes, one car- rot, one turnip, half a pint of fplit peafe, four quarts of water, fome whole pepper, a head of celery, a Britifh herring ; when boiled, rub this through acoarfe fieve; add fpinach and celery boiled, dried mint, and fried bread. Veal Soup. CUT the meat off a leg of veal in thin flices, cut it clean from the bone; break the bone in pieces, put the meat in a large jug or jar, put in with it a bunch of fweet herbs, half a pound of Jordan almonds blanched and beat fine, pour on it four quarts of boiling water ; cover it clofe, and let it ftand all night by the fire ; the next day put it into an earthen veffel ; let it flew very.ilowly till it is reduced to two quarts, take off the fcum very clean, as it rifes while boiling ; ftrain it, and let it ftand to fettle, then pour it clear off, and put it into a clean faucepan, mix with it either boiled rice or vermicelli. Three ounces of rice, or two ounces of vermicelli. y Calf’s Head Soup. TAKE a calf’s head, wafh it clean, ftew it with a bunch of fweet herbs, an onion ftuck with cloves, mace, pearl barley, and Jamaica pepper ; when it is very tender, put to it fome ftewed celery ; feafon it with pepper, and ferve it with the head in the middle. " A rich Gravy Soup. CUT feven or eight pounds of lean beef to pieces; put it into a ftew-pot with a fhank of ham, or a bit of lean bacon, a little bit of butter ; lay on the meat two or three carrots fliced, two onions, a turnip, half a dozen cloves, three heads of ce- lery, a bunch of fweet herbs ; cover the pot clofe, fet it over a flowfire, at a diftance, that the gravy may draw out gradually, which pour off; then let the meat brown over a fire rather quick, but take care it does not burn, as that will quite fpoil the foup; pour over the meat fix or feven quarts of water ; let this hmmer, or boil very gently, till reduced to about feven pints, or as it is liked for richnefs ; put to it the gravy which was drawn from the meat; ftrain it; when cold, take off the fat j