3U THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. other ufes, which will be mentioned hereafter. Thofe which are a fize between the buttons and flaps, are fit to ufe frefh. The bad fort, which are picked up amongfl thofe that grow naturally on the commons and in the fields, are not fo flat at the top ; the under part, or gills, is white, inftead of the fine red ; if they are rubbed with the fingers, they turn yellow, and ■when pickled are never white. To dry Mujhrooms. TAKE a parcel of mufhroom-flaps, cut off the flalks, and ferape out the gills; put them into a faucepan with a little fait, fet them upon the fire, and let them flew in their own li- quor ; then pour them into a fieve to drain ; when they are dry, fend them to a flack oven upon tin plates ; when they are quite dry, put them into fhallow boxes, and keep them for ufe. The liquor will make ketchup. To keep Mujhrooms in Salt and Water. MAKE them very clean, taking out the gills ; boil them tender in water and a little fait, dry them with a cloth ; make a ftrong brine ; when cold put in the mufhrooms; at the end of a fortnight change the brine ; put them into fmall bottles, pour oil on the top. When they are ufed in ragouts, &c. lay them firfl: in warm water. Mujhroom Liquor and Powder. WAS Ha peck of mufhrooms, rub them with a piece of flan- nel, take out the gills, but do not peel them ; put to them twelve blades of mace, four cloves, four bay-leaves, half an ounce of beaten pepper, one handful of fait, eight onions, a bit of butter the fize of an egg, half a pint of vinegar ; let this ■flew as quick as it can, ftirring it till the liquor is out of the mufhrooms ; drain them; bottle the fpice and liquor when cold : dry the mufhrooms in an oven, firfl: in a broad pan, then on fieves, till they will beat to powder. This quantity will make fix or feven ounces. Stop it clofe in a wide-mouthed bottle. Ketchup of Mufhrooms. PUT flaps or large buttons into a pan, breaking them in pieces ; ftrew fait over them ; let them ftand four or five days; mafh them and fqueeze them through a cloth ; boil and feum the liquor, it mufl be relifhing; throw in black and Jamaica pepper.