THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. 263 To roajl Chickens. A large one will take half an hour, a fmall one twenty mi- nutes. For fauce—gravy, parfley and butter, or mulhrooni fauce. Roajl Fowls to eat like Pheafants. THEY muft be full grown ; leave the heads on, trufsfhem like phealants, lard them with bacon, and few Will know the difference. For fauce—gravy and bread fauce. Another Way to roajl Fowls. MAKE fome forced-meat with the flefh of a fowl cut fmall, a pound of veal ; beat them in a mortar with half a pound of beef-fuet, as much crumb of bread, fome mufhrooms, truffles,' and morells cut fmall, fome lemon-peel grated fine, fome beaten mace, a few fweet herbs, and fome parfley mixed together, with the yolks of two eggs ; bone the fowls, fill them with the forced-meat, and roaft them. For fauce—ftrong gravy, with truffles, morells, and mufhrooms, Fowl roajled, with a Ragout of Oyjlers. MAKE a forced-meat, to which add a dozen oyfters, fluff the craw; cover the breaft of the fowl with bacon fliced, then a fheet of paper, roaft it ; take fome cull is, or good gravy, put in the oyfters, with their liquor ftrained, a little mufhroom- powder, or ketchup, lemon-juice, thicken it with flour; add chyan and fait, if wanted, boil it up : when the fowl is done take off the bacon. Serve the fauce in the difh. This fauce is proper for any roafted fowls or chickens. To roajl a Fowl with Chefnuts. ROAST fome chefnuts of a fine brown, without burning ; take off the fkins, and peel them ; take about a dozen, cut them fmall, and bruife them in a mortar ; take a quarter of a pound of ham or bacon, and beat it till it is very fine; chop fmall a handful of parfley, a few fweet herbs, a little pepper, fait, mace, and nutmeg; mix all thefe well together, and put them into the fowl ; tie the neck very tight, and hang it up by the legs, roaft it with a firing, and bafte it with butter. For fauce—’take fome more chefnuts, peeled and fkinned, put them into fome good gravy with a little white wine, and thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour. This is the German way of drefling fowls. 3 4 Fowls