THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. i5S the head, lay it upon the ragout, pour the reft over it, and on that fome melted butter ; then fcrape fome fine Parmefan cheefe and ftrew it over the butter, and lend it to the oven ; it does not want much baking, but only requires to be of a fine brown. Cold Calf's Head hajhed. CUT it into flices, flour it, put to it a little boiled gravy, a little white wine, fome cream, a little ketchup, white pepper* fait, and nutmeg, a few oyfters and their liquor, fared lemon- peel ; boil this up gently together ; a few pickled or frefh mufhrooms,and a little lemon-juice, or lemon-juice only. This may be enriched with truffles and morells parboiled, forced- meat balls, and hard eggs. To collar a Calf's Head. TAKE a calf’s head with the fkin on, fcald off the hair, parboil and bone it; the fore part muft be flit: boil the tongue, peel it, and cut it into thin flices, and the palate with it; put them with the eyes into the middle of the head ; take fome pep- per, fait, cloves, mace, and beat them, nutmeg grated, fcalded parfley, thyme, favory, and fweet marjoram, cut very fmall ; beat the yolks of three or four eggs, fpread them over the head, and then ftrew on the feafoning, roll it up very tight, and tie it round with tape ; boil it gently for three hours, in as much water as will cover it: when the head is taken out, feafon the pickle with fait, pepper, and fpice; alfo a pint of white wine vinegar : when it is cold put in the collar, and when fent to table cut it in flices. To collar a Calf's Head to eat like Brawn. TAKE the head with the fkin and hair on, fcald it till the hair will come off, then cleave it down, and take out the brains and the eyes, wafh it very clean, and put it into a pot of clean water ; boil it till the bones will come out ; then flice the tongue and ears, and lay them all even ; throw a handful of fait over them, and roll it up quite clofe into a collar ; boil it near tv/o hours; when the head is cold, put it into brawn pickle. Mock Tier tie. TAKE a calf’s head and fcald off the hair, as from a pig, then clean it, cut off the horny part in thin flices, with as little of the lean as pofflble ; chop the brains; have ready be- tween a quart and three pints of itrong mutton or veal gravy, with