3'3 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. TRUFFLES. TRUFFLES grow like mufhrooms, but never appear above the ground in their natural ftate. They generally lie ten inches deep ; after they are ripe, they rot in the ground, and young ones grow in great numbers from every old truffle which de- cays. ^ The truffle has a very rich, tart, and high flavour, when , frefh, but lofes it in a great ineafure when dried ; however, they are generally ufed in made difhes. They are common in France and Italy, and we have them in fome parts of England. M O R E L L S. MORELLS are likewife of the mulhroom kind, but they rife above the earth about three inches, of the bignefs of an egg, of a dufky-whitifh colour; they have a higher flavour frefh than drv. They grow in England, but are more com- mon and richer in flavour in the warmer parts of Europe. CHYAN PEPPER. THE plant which bears this pod, is raifed fometimes in out- gardens. Its proper name is Capficum. From its growing in Africa, it is called Guinea pepper; and Chyan pepper, from its growth in America. The pods are long, and when ripe, of a fmooth fine red colour. Some call it Garden-coral. The powder of this is called chyan pepper, and is made as follows : The pods are gathered when full ripe; they are opened, the feeds taken out, and the pods laid to dry in the fun ; when quite dry, they are beaten to a coarfe powder. This powder is chyan pepper in the plaineft way, but there are many ways of preparing it. Some mix bay-falt with it, and ethers powder of mufhrooms. MUSHROOMS. MUSHROOMS are very ufeful for fauces and made difhes, but great care fnould be taken to procure the right fort. Thofe are good which grow upon commons, but are liable to be mixed with bad ones ; therefore it is beft to ufe thofe from the hot-beds. The upper part of the right fort are of a roundifh form, like a button ; the ftalk white, the under part, or gills, of a fine pale red, but when broken, are very white ; when they are left in the ground, they grow very large and flat, and the red part changes to a very dark colour. When they are fmall, they are called buttons, and are fit for pickling; but when they grow large, they are called flaps, and are put to otfler