THE LADY’S assistant. 482 The Stagnant-'water. Stagnant-water in ponds and ditches is generally efteemed the worft. But large lakes, which are kept in almoft a continual agitation by the wind, do not properly come within the denomination of ftagnant waters. Pump-water, efpecially in London. It appears, from the analyfis performed by Dr. Heberden, that feveral pump-waters in London, which he had examined, and probably moft of them, contain powder of lime-ftone, and the mineral acids of vitriol, nitre, and fea-falt, united in various proportions. Thefe waters are likewife taint- ed with an oilinefs,which gives them a remarkably yellowifh call, when com- pared with pure diililled water. It is reafonable to think, that waters im- pregnated with fuch aftive fubftances, in a quantity fufficient to renderthem difagreeable to the tafte, cannot always be drank with impunity. They have accordingly been fufpefted of occafioning pains in the ftomach and bowels, glandular tumours, and coftivcnefs, where the fimple lime-done prevails ; and diarrhoeas, where much of it is united with the folution of acids ; and it is probable, that a continued ufe of fuch water may be the caufe of many other diforders, efpecially to the infirm, and to children. From whence it follows, that a change of place may often be of as much ufe to weak perfons, from the change of water, as of air. Some obfcure notion of the unwholefomenefs of pump-water induces many perfons to boil it, and let it ftand to grow cold; by which it will in- deed be made to part from moft of its unneutralized lime-ftoneand felenite; but at the fame time it will become more ftrongly impregnated with the faline matter, and therefore it will be worfe. If a fmall quantity of fait of tartar were added to the water, it would readily precipitate both the loofe lime-ftone, and likewife that which is united to the acids. Ten or fifteen grains would generally be enough for a pint; but the exaft proportion would readily be found, by continuing to add to it, by little andTittle, till it ceafed to occafion white clouds. This is an eafy way, not only of ipeeing the water from its lime-ftone, but alfo of changing the faline part into fiitre and i'al fylvii, both of which we know, by long experience, to be innocent. But the belt way of avoiding the bad effe&s of pump-water would be, not to make a conftant ufe of it; and in a place l'o well fupplied with river-water as London, there is very little necelfity to drink of the i'prings ; which, in /o large a city, befides their natural contents, mull collefl many additional im- purities from cellars, burying-grounds, common-fewers, and many other of- fenfive places, with which they undoubtedly often communicate ; fo that it is indeed a wonder, that we find this water at all tolerable, 1Thames and New-River Water. RIVER-waters partake of the properties of their fprings, and the channels through which they run ; yet, in a wonderful manner, they foon free them- felves from their impurities. The motion of the current *, the abforption of the foil, the fun and rain, have each of them a confiderable (hare in this effect. * The moft rapid rivers contain the pureft water.