THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 125 vies, and a quarter of a pint of fmall beer ; cover it clofe, and let itftew till it is tender, then take out the beef, fcum off the fat, {train the gravy; add two ox-palates {tewed tender and cut into pieces, fome pickled gerkins, truffles, morells, and a little muQiroom powder; let all thefe boil together, thicken the fauce with a bit of butter rolled in flour, put in the beef to warm, pour the fauce over it, and ferve it up. ‘Tremblant. CUT a fmall rump of beef very neatly, fo as to lay flat in, the difli, let it hang according as the weather will permit, bind it about with a fillet, put it into a pot with water enough to cover it, about a pint of Madeira, an onion ftuck with cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, a bunch of fweet herbs, fome whole pepper ; let it flew gently for as long a time as it will hang to- gether ; take out the beef, fcum the fauce very clean, firft {trained ; have fome carrots, firft half-boiled and cut in flips an inchlong, then ftewed in about a pint of cull is, with fmall onions or efchalot minced, chopped parfley, and a little tara- gon ; add to this as much of the liquor the beef was ftewed in * as will make fauce enough, more wine if neceffary, and a little juice of lemon ; wipe the meat, take off the tape, pour the fauce over it when it has boiled up a minute or two. If it is defigned for a fide-dilh, cut the meat to a proportionable fize. Ecarlate. TAKE a brifket, or the thick part of the thin flank, rub it over well with fome falt-petre beat fmall, then take half a pound of coarfe fugar, a pound of common fait, two ounces of bay-falt, mix it ail together, and rub it well on the beef; turn it every day, and let it lie twelve days or a fortnight. It eats very good cold, with a weight laid upon it, and then cut into flices. Rump aa Ragout. CUT the meat from the bon«, flour and fry it, pour over it a little boiling water, about a pint of fmall beer; add a carrot or two, an onion ftuck with cloves, fome whole pepper, fait, a piece of lemon-peel, a bunch of fweet herbs; let thefe ftew an hour, then add fome good gravy ; when the meat is tender take it out, ftrain the fauce, thicken it with a little flour; add a little celery ready boiled, a little ketchup ; put io the meat, juft fimmerIt up. Or the celery may be omitted, and the ra- gout, 1