354 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. we have them therefore of various fizes and flavours: fomc prefer one, and fome the other. The fine fallad oil, as has been before mentioned, is made from this fruit, for which purpofe they are gathered ripe ; but for pickling they are gathered when half-ripe, at the latter end of June : they are put into frefh water to foak for two days; after this they throw them into lime-water, in which fomc pearl-afties have been diflolved : they lie in this liquor fix-and- thirty hours ; then they are thrown into water which has had bay-falt diflolved in it : this is the laft preparation, and they are fent over to us in this liquor: they are naturally as they grow on the tree very bitter, and therefore require all thefe preparations to bring them to their fine flavour. To fome olives they add a fmall quantity of effence of fpices, which is an oil drawn from cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon, coriander, and fweet fennel feed diftilled together for that purpofe : twelve drops are enough for a bufhel of olives: fome prefer them fla- voured with this eflence, but others like them beft plain. To pickle Capficum Pods. GATHER the pods, with the ftalks on, before they turn red : cut a flit down the fide with a pen-knife, and take out all the feeds, but as little of the meat as poflible ; lay them in a ftrong brine for three days, changing it every day ; then take them out, lay them on a cloth, and lay another over them till they are quite dry ; boil vinegar enough to cover them, put into it fome mace and nutmeg beat fmall : put the pods into a glafs or jar, and when the liquor is cold, pour it over, then tie a bladder and leather over them. To pickle Purjlain Stalks. WASH the ftalks, and cut them in pieces fix inches long ; put them into water and fait, and let them boil up about a do- zen times ; then ftrain the liquor from them : make a pickle of ftale beer, white-wine vinegar, and fait: when they are cold put them in and cover them clofe. To pickle Fennel. TAKE fome fpring-water, and when it boils put in the fen- nel tied in bunches, with fome fait; do not let it boil, but when it is of a fine green dry it on a cloth ; when it is cold put it in a glafs, with fome nutmeg and mace, fill it with cold vinegar.