3*4 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. tie them up in a bunch, and put them into a faucepan of boil- ing water; let them boil a minute, then take them out and fquccze the water from them ; then chop them very fine, and add to thcfe a clove of garlic, and two large onions minced fine; put them into a (lew-pan, with half a pint of broth, fome pepper, and a little fait; boil them up, and put in a fpoonful of vinegar. Sauce (iu Poivre. TAKE half a pint of veal gravy, half the quantity of vine- gar, with ten young onions whole, a large one diced, and half an anchovy ; let them boil fome time, and then drain it off, prefling it very hard ; add to the liquor a little fait, and as much pepper as will make it agreeable to the talle. Ramolade Sauce. CUT fine two large fpoonfuls of capers, as much pardey, a couple of anchovies waftied and boned, two cloves ofigarlic, and a little efchalot ; let them be cut feparately, and then mixed together : put a little rich gravy into a dew-pan, with two fpoonfuls of oil, a fpoonful of mudard, and the juice of a large lemon : make it quite hot, and then put in the other ingredients, with fome pepper, a little fait, and the leaves of a few fweet herbs picked from the dalks ; dir it well together, . and let it dand four minutes over a brifk fire. This is good with boiled lowls, boiled veal, and many other things which are boiled. Sauce for boiled Beef a -la-Ruffes. TAKE a large dick of horfe-radidi, ferape it, tie it up in a cloth, and boil it in the pot with the beef; when it has boiled a little, put it in fome melted butter, and let it boil fome time in that : fend it up in the butter : fome fend it up in vinegar indead of butter. Sicilian Sauce. TAKE half a fpoonful of coriander-feeds, with four cloves, bruife them in a mortar ; put three quarters of a pint of good i^ravy, and a quarter of a pint of efience of ham, into a dew- pan ; peel half a lemon, and cut it into very thin dices, and put in with the c< riander-feed-s and cloves ; let them boil up, then put in three cloves of garlic whole, a head of celery diced, two bay-leaves, and a little bad!; let thcic boil till there is