/r f 438 THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. the next day boil them till they look clear ; if the fyrup is not thick enough, boil it more ; when cold, put brandy-paper. The quinces may be quartered. White Quince Marmalade. TO a pound and a half of quinces, one pound of double- refined fugar, which make into a fyrqp, boil it high; pare and llice the fruit, and boil it quick ; when it begins to look clear, pour in half a pint of juice of quince, or, if quinces are dear, pippins ; boil it till thick, take off the feum with a paper.— To make the juice—pare the quinces or pippins, cut them from the core, beat them in a done mortar, drain the juice through a thin cloth ; to every half pint, put more than a pound of fugar; let it dand at lead four hours before it is ufed. Red Quince Marmalade. LET them be quite ripe ; quarter and core them, put them into a fauce-pan, lay the parings on the top; almod fill the fauee-pan with water, cover it clofe, let them do gently till of a reddifh colour ; take out the quinces, beat them fine ; make a fyrup with the weight of the fruit in fugar jud wetted ; boil and feum it; put in the quince, mix it with the fyrup ; boil it gently till of a proper thicknefs. Another way. PARE the quinces and cut them into quarters, take out the cores clean ; put the cores into a fauce-pan with fome ot the fkins, a good many barberries, and as much water as will cover them ; let them boil very well; then drain it from the fkins, cores, and barberries; to fix pounds of quinces put three quarts of the liquor, and four pounds and a half of fugar, then boil them all together; ftirring it all the while well; tie up a little cochineal in a rag, and boil it in the marmalade. Compote of Quinces. PARE the quinces, cut them into four quarters, and core them ; put them in a preferving-pan, with fome water, on the fire J when they are quite foft, take them off and lay them on a cloth ; take another preferving-pan, with iome clarified fugar in it; put in the quinces, and let them do very gently upon a flow fire till they are quite done. Cover them, if they are to be red.