126 THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. K gout enriched by adding mufhrooms frefli or pickled, artichoke- bottoms boiled and quartered, and hard yolks of eggs. N. B. A piece of flank, or any piece that can be cut free from bone, will do inflead of the rump. A Round of Beef forced. RUB it with fome common fait, a little bay-falt, falt-petre, and coarfe fugar ; let it lie a full week or more, according to the flze, turning it every day ; wafh and dry it, lard it a little, and make holes, which fill with bread crumbs, marrow, or fuet, parfley, grated lemon-peel, fweet herbs, pepper, fait, nutmeg, yolk of egg, made into fluffing ; bake it with a little water and fmall beer, fome whole pepper, and an onion. It may be boiled. It is a handfome fideboard-difh cold for a large company. To force the Infide of a Sirloin of Beef. WITH a fharp knife carefully lift up the fat of the infide, and take out all the meat clofe to the bone ; chop it fmall, and alfo a pound of fuet, about as many crumbs of bread, a little thyme and lemon-peel, a little pepper and fait, half a nutmeg grated, and two chalots chopped fine ; mix and beat all very fine in a marble mortar, with a glafs of red wine, and then put it into the fame place ; cover it with the fkin anti fat, fkewer it down with fine fkewers, and cover it with paper; do not take the paper off till the meat be on the difh ; take aiquarter of a pint of red wine, and two efchalots Hired fine ; boil them, and pour into the difh, with the gravy that comes out of the meat. Spit your meat before you take out the infide. Sirloin of Beef cn Epigram. HAVING roafted a firloin of beef, take it off the fpit, raife the fkin carefully off, and cut out the lean part of the beef, but obferve not to cut near the ends or fides : hafh the meat in the following manner; cut it into pieces about the fize of a crown- piece, put half a pint of gravy into a tofs-pan, an onion chopped fine, two fpoonfuls of ketchup, fome pepper and fait, fix fmall pickled cucumbers cut into thin dices, and the gravy that comes from the beef, with a little butter rolled in flour; put the meat in, and tofs it up for five minutes; then put it on the firloin, put the fkin over, and fend it to table. Garnifh with horfe-radifh. Tq