456 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. Currant Shrub. TO five pints of currant juice, either red or white, one pound and an half of loaf fugar ; when difiolved put to it one gallon of rum or brandy ; clear it through a flannel bag. Verde. INFUSE the rind of three lemons and four oranges in two quarts of rum or brandy, for twenty-four hours, clofe flopped ; fqueeze the juice through a ftrainer ; if the fruit be good there will be half a pint, if there is not, make it that; put it to one pound and a quarter of fugar, pour to it three quarts of wa- ter, ftir it till the fugar is difiolved, after which ftir in the peel and fpirits, and to that one pint of cold new milk; pafs it through a bag till clear; bottle it. It will keep twelve months. Imperial Water. PUT four ounces and a half of fugar, the rind of three le- mons, into a large earthen pan ; boil one ounce of cream of tartar in three quarts of water till difiolved, pour it to the lemon-peel; let it ftand all night; clear it through a bag; bottle it. Cherry Brandy. TO a gallon of brandy, fix pounds of morella cherries pick- v ed, one pound of fugar; it may ftand five or fix weeks, or longer, before it is bottled. The fmall black cherry does very well ; fill a large bottle with them picked, pour in what brandy it will hold ; l'weeten it. Fine Cherry Brandy. STONE morella cherries, put them into any fized jar till full; break the ftones, put them in, with fome apricot-kernels j pour in as much brandy as poflible; tie over a bladder: let it fland two or three months or longer, then prefs out all the juice; fweeten it with white fugar candy, or fine fugar; pals it through a bag ; bottle it. Fine-Apple Brandy. SLICE one large pine-apple, or two fmall ones, into at gallon of brandy, with one pound of fifted fugar ; cover it, not too clofe, for about a week, liirring it every day ; then flop it clofe, tie over a bladder; in fix or eight weeks bottle it. If there is any of the fyrup the chips were done in, add half a pint or more, and lefs fugar.