i64 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. Fowls fluffed. MAKE a forced-meat with half a pound of beef-fuet, as much crumb of bread grated fine, the meat of a fowl cut very fmall ; beat thefe in a mortar, and a pound of veal with them, fome truffles, morells, and mufhrooms cut fmall, a few fw'eet fierbs and parfley fhred fine, fome grated nutmeg, pepper, fait, and grated lemon-peel ; bone the fowls, fill them with thi? forced-meat, and roaft them. For fauce—good gravy, with truffles and morells. The fowls may be larded. Fowl with Rice, called a Pillaw. BOIL a pint of rice in as much water as will cover it, with black pepper, a blade or two of mace, and half a dozen cloves, tied up in a bit of cloth ; when the rice is tender take out the fphe ; ltir in a piece of butter ; boil a fowl and a piece of ba- con, lay them in the dilh, cover them with the rice; lay round the difh and upon the rice hard eggs cut in halves and quarters, lengthways ; and onions, firfl boiled and then fried. Fowl hajhed. CUT it to pieces^ and put it into fome gravy, with a little cream, ketchup, or mufhroom-powder, grated lemon-peel,and nutmeg, a few oyftcrs and their liquor, a piece pf butter mixed ■with flour; keep it ftirring till the gutter 1? melted ^ lay fippetj jn the difh, [Fowl ftewed. See Turkey.] [Fowl forced. See Turkey.] ♦ Fowl d-la-Braize. TRUSS it as for boiling, feafon the infide with pepper and fait ; put at the bpttom of the vefiel a flice or two of beef, lay over the fowl fome thin flices of lean bacon, and bits of veal, an onion Auck with cloves, a bunch of fweet Herbs, a carrot, half a lemon, pepper, and fait; fet this over a flow fire for ten mi- nutes, then put to it about three pints of warm beef broth or water ; heat a glafs of Madeira and pour in, flew this till the fowl is tender ; drain the gravy through a piece of dimity, the rough fide upward, firfl: dipped in cold water; mix a little flour with it, boil it up, pour it over the fowl. Oyfters are a grea^ addition. Chickens a-la-Braize. DO them as fowl; enrich the fauce with a fweetbread, ox- palate boiled tender and cut to pieces, truffles, morells, ami ar- tichoke- bo4°ms boiled and quartered. Chicksq