THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 249 ftew-pan, put to it a piece of butter rolled in flour, a fpoonful of ketchup, fome pickled mufhrooms, and a glafs of white wine : let it boil till it is ofia proper thicknels ; if there is any feum, take it clean off, and pour the fauce over the fifh. Another Way. TAKE the flfh, and fry them of a fine brown ; then take them up, and add to the butter they were fiied in, water fuf- ficient to make fauce for the quantity of fifh that are done ; to a quart of water two anchovies and an onion fliced, a fpoonful of ketchup, and two fpoonfuls of red wine; let it fimmer a quarter of an hour, then put it into the difh : let them flew very flowly a quarter of an hour, then take them out; put them into a warm difh, and thicken the fauce with butter and flour; give it a boil, and ftrain it off; pour it over the fifil. ‘To fricajfee Flounders, L?c. CLEAN the fifh, and take off the black fkin, but not the white ; cut the flefh from the bones into long flices, and dip them into yolk of egg ; ffrew over them fome bread-rafpings, and fry them in clarified butter: when they are enough, lay them upon a plate, and keep them hot. For fauce—take the bones of the fifh, boil them in fome water ; then put in an an- chovy, fome thyme, parfley, a little pepper, fait, cloves, and. mace : let thefe limmer till the anchovy is diffolved ; then take the butter the fifh was fried in, put it into.a pan over the fire; fhake fome flour into it, and keep ftirring it while the flour is fhaking in ; then drain the liquor into it, and let it boil till it is thick ; fqueeze fome lemon juice into it; put the fifh into a difh, and pour the fauce over them. Sa't or Tujk Fijh. SOAK it a day or two, according to its fize and faltnefs; lay it on bricks or ftones all night; put it again into water the day it is ufed, and boil it.— Ling requires a great deal of doing j it muff only fimmer ; fometimes it will take twp hours fim~ meriug after twelve horns fluking.—Water-cod need only be' boiled and well feu named —Scotch haddocks fhould be iaid in fo.kall night; they may either be broiled or boiled ; if broil- ed, they fhould be fpht afunder. For fauce—etrg fauce, parf- nips whole or rnafhed, potatoes, and plain butier ; or, when boiled, pull the falt-filh into flakes, pour over it egg lauce, or piafhed parfnips, SPRATS