THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 225 toils, put in the foies, and with them half a lemon cut in flices with the peel on ; let them fimmer flowly, then take out the fweet herbs, and put in a pint of ftrong white wine, and a piece of butter rolled in flour ; let them all fimmer together till the foies are enough. While the filh is doing, put in half a pint of veal gravy, and a quarter of a pint of eflence of ham j let it boil a little, take up the foies, and pour this over it. T0 boil Soles a-la-Franfoife. TAKE an earthen dilh, and put into it a quart of water, with half a pint of vinegar j fkin and clean a pair of foies, put them into the vinegar and water, let them lie two hours, then take them out and dry them with a cloth ; then put them into aftew-pan, with a pint of white wine, a quarter of a pint cif water, a very little thyme, a little fweet marjoram, winter-fa- voury, and an onion ftuck with four cloves ; put in the foies, fprinkle a very little bay-falt, and cover them clofe ; let them fimmer very gently till they are enough ; take them out, lay. them in a warm dilh before the fire; put into the liquor, after it is {trained, a piece of butter rolled in flour, let it boil till of a proper thicknefs, lay the foies in a dilh, and pour the fauce over them. A fmall turbot, or any flat filh, may be drefled in the fame manner. *s _ To boil Soles the Dutch Way. TAKE a pair of large foies, Ikin, gut, and walh them very clean in fpring-water; fet them on in a Itew-pan with fome water and a little fait; when it boils put in the foies, and let them boil a few minutes ; then put on a faucepan with fome parfley cut fmall, in a little water ; let it Hand till the water is all confirmed, then lhake in fome flour, and put in a good piece of butter; lhake them well together till all is well mixed, then lay the foies, when they are drained, upon a dilh, and pour the fauce over them. To fry Soles. SKIN them, rub them over with yolk of egg, Itrew on them very fine bread crumbs, or flour them j fry them with a brilk fire.—Anchovy fauce. a u