\ THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. fyrup, dry them. When they are fet by in the fyrup, let it b« in fomething rather narrow at the top, as they muft be covered, or they will be difcoloured. Magnum-bonum Plums. SET them over a flow fire in fpring-water till they will peel ; keep them under the water ; peel them, put them into a thin fyrup in ajar, keep them under the fyrup, that they may not be difcoloured ; the next day boil the fyrup, put them in, give them a gentle boil, let them Hand to be cold, then repeat it, turn them in the fyrup till near cold ; take out the plums, drain the fyrup ; put to it more fugar, boil and fcum it, put in the plums, boil them till clear 5 when cold, put brandy- paper. Wine Sours. RUN them down the feam with a pin, fcald them a few at a time in a very thin fyrup; take them out, ftrew fugar over them in layers, half a pound of fugar to a pound of plums; the next day pour otF the fyrup, boil it, put it to the plums ; repeat this feveral days till they look clear; the laft day, when the fyrup is boiled, put in the plums, juft give them a boil ; when cold, put brandy-paper, tie over a bladder. If there is not quite fyrup enough, make a little to put to it. T0 dry Damfons. GATHER the damfons when full ripe, day them on a coarfe cloth, fet them in a very cool oven, let them ftand a day or two, they muft be as dry as a frefh prune ; if they are not, put them in another cool oven for a day or two longer; then take them out: they will eat like frefh damfons in the winter. T0 preferve the Green Admirable Plum. THIS is a fmall plum, inclining to the yellow, about the fize of a damfon ; they fhould be full grown, juft turning co- lour; prick them with a pen-knife, fcald them by degrees till the water is very hot; continue them in the water till they are green, drain them, and put them into clarified fugar ; boil them well in it, and let them fettle a little, then give them another boil ; if they (brink, and do not take the fugar well, prick them with a fork all over as they lie in the pan, and give them another boil ; fcum them, and fet them by ; the next day boil feme more fugar till it blowsA and put it to them, give them another