47-6 THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. ceflary, that they who are employed in colle&ing them Ihould be extremely cautious, left they (hould collett fuch as are abl'olutely pernicious ; which, confulering to whole care this is generally committed, may, and undoubt- edly has, frequently happened. The eatable mulh rooms at firft appear of a roundifli form, like a button ; the upper part and the ftalk are very white ; the under part is of a livid flelh-colour ; but the flefhy part, when broken, is very white. When thefe are fuffered to remain undifturbed, they will grow to a large fize, and ex- pand themfelves almoft to a fiatr.efs, and the red part underneath will change to a dark colour. Copper Vejfels. COPPER, when it is handled, yields an offenfive fmell, and if touched with the tongue, a Iharp pungent tafte, and even excites a naufea, Ver- degris is nothing but a iolution of this metal by vegetable acids. And it is well known, that a very fmall quantity of this folution will produce cholics, vomitings, intolerable thirft, univerfal convulfions, and other dan- gerous fymptoms. If thefe effefls, and the prodigious divifibility of this metal be confidered, there can be no doubt of its being a violent and fub- tile poifon : we are daily expoied to this poifon by the ufe of copper vefiels for drefllng our food. The very air of the kitchen, abounding with olea- ginous.and faline particles, penetrates and difpofes them to difl'olution, be- fore they are uled. Water, by Handing fome time in a copper veftel, is im- pregnated with verdegris, as may be demonftrated by throwing into it a ima’ll quantity of any volatile alkali, which will immediately tinge it with a paler or deeper blue, in proportion to the ruft contained in the water. Vinegar, apple-fauce, greens, oil, greafe, butter, and almoft every other kind of food, will extraft the verdegris in a greater degree. It is true, people imagine, that the ill effefts of copper are prevented by its being tin- ned ; but the tin, which adheres to the copper, is fo extremely thin, that it is foon penetrated by the verdegris, which infinuates itfelf through the pores of that metal, and appears green upon the furface. Verdegris is one of the moft violent poifons in nature : yet, rather than quit an old ctiftom, the greater part of mankind are content to fwallow fome of this poifon every day. Ou.r food receives its quantity of poifon in the kitchen, by the ufe of copper pans and difhes. The brewer mingles poifon in our beer, by boil- ing it in a copper. Salt is diftributed to the people from copper fcales, covered with verdegris. Pickled cucumbers are rendered green by an in- fufion of copper coin. The paftry-cook bakes our tarts in copper patty- pans. But confeftions and fyrups have greater powers of deltru&ion : for they are let over a fire in copper vefiels, which have not been tinned; and the verdegris is plentifully extracted by .the acidity of the compolition. And though we do not, after'all, fwallow death in a ftngle dofe, yet it is certain, that a quantity of’poifon, however fmall, which is repeated with, every meal, mult produce more fatal effefts than is generally believed. Bell-metal kettles are very often uled in boiling cucumbers for pickling, in order to make them green. This is an abfurd and dangerous practice. If the cucumbers acquire any additional greenneis by the ule of thefe kettles, iiiey can only derive it from the copper, of which they ate made. According i