< 372 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. Apple Pudding. MAKE a puff pafte, roll it near half an inch thick; pare and core the apples, fill the cruft; grate a little lemon-peel, (and a little lemon-juice in winter, it quickens the apple) put in fome fugar, clofe the cruft, tie it in a cloth ; a fmall pud- ding will take two hours boiling, a large one three or four. New-College Pudding. A two-penny loaf grated, four ounces of beef-fuet fhred, and four ounces of marrow, fix ounces of fcalded currants, four of fine fugar, half a nutmeg, a little fait, the yolks of fix eggs» the whites of three, a little brandy; mix all well, and boil the pudding half an hour; melted butter, wine, and fugar: fweetmeats may be added. Duke of Buckingham's Pudding. HALF a pound of fuet chopped fine, a quarter of a pound of raifins ftoned and chopped, two eggs, a little nutmeg and ginger, two fpoonfuls of flour, a little fugar to the tafte; tie it clofe, boil it four hours at leaft; ferve it with melted butter, fack, and fugar. Duke of Cumberland's Pudding. FLOUR, grated apple, currants, chopped fuet, fugar, of each fix ounces; fix eggs, a little nutmeg and fait; boil it two hours at leaft ; melted butter, wine, and fugar. An Herb Pudding. TAKE a quart of grotts, fteep them in warm water half an hour; take a pound of hog’s lard, cut it in little bits; take of fpinach, beets, parfley, and leeks, a handful of each, three large onions chopped fmall, three fage-leaves cut fine ; put in a little fait, mix all well together, and tie it clofe. It will require to be taker, up in boiling, to loofen the firing a little. A Spinach Pudding. TAKE a quarter of a peck of fpinach, pick and wadi it clean, put it into a faucepan with a little fait, cover it clofe, and boil it tender ; throw it into a fieve to drain, and then cut it fmall ; beat up fix eggs, and mix them with half a pint of cream or milk, a ftale roll grated fine, a little nutmeg, and a quarter of a pound of melted butter; ftirall well together, put it into the faucepan the fpinach was ftewed in; keep it ftir-