£26 THE LADY’S ASSISTANT.’ I To drefs fried Soles, or flat Fijh, delicately fine and brown. TAKE the yolks of two eggs, or more, according to the quantity of fifh you have to drefs, let them be beat fine, and then put them in a wide difh; then toaft a bit of bread’ and grate it very fine through a grater, take your fifh, and dip in the yolk of the eggs ; if they be flat fifh, the belly part only will be fufficient to dip; then fprinkle on a little of the grated bread, and put your fifh into the pan ; there will be a fine brown cruft, and your fifh free from being greafy. To flew Soles. TAKE the fifh from the bone, cut each into eight pieces ; put into a ftew-pan a quart of boiled gravy, a quarter of a pint of Madeira, or white wine, fome white pepper pounded, grated nutmeg, a piece of lemon-peel; flew thefe together for near an hour ; add fome cream, a piece of butter mixed with flour ; keep the fauce ftirring till it boils, put in the fifh, flew it for a quarter of an hour; take out the lemon-peel, fqueeze in fome lemon-juice ; the fifh may be ftewed whole in the fame fauce ; and if more convenient, cut the fifh, as before directed, and make a little gravy with the bones and head. 'To drefs Soles in Fricandeau. WASH, gut, fcrape, dry, and fkin the foies ; take off their heads, tails, and fins ; lard them with fmall bits of bacon, and flour them ; fet on a ftew-pan with fome melted bacon, when it boils put in the foies fingly, and let them be of a fine deli- cate colour; take them up, cut fome mufhrooms and truffles upon them ; put in fome effence of ham, fome veal cullis, and •veal gravy, more than fufficient to cover them ; lay the larded fide uppermoft, and let them fimraer very flowly over a gentle fire ; when they are done, pour the fauce into a difh, fqueeze in the juice cf a lemon, lay the foies in the difh, and ferve them up hot. To fricaffee Soles. FRY them of a nice brown, drain them ; make a few balls with a lmall foie boned and chopped, a little grated bread, and ]emon-peel, parfley chopped, pepper, fait, nutmeg, yolk of egg, a piece of butter ; fry thefe : thicken fome good gravy (and fome red wine, not too much) with a little flour; boil it up ; add chyan, ketchup, and lemon-juice ; lay in the fifh and balls, fimmer them a few minutes. Garnifh with lemon.