> TftE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 461 fire, and icum it well; bottle it, and put a little brandy over it. Birch Wine with Raifins. TO an hogfhead of birch-water, take four hundred of Ma- laga raifins, pick them clean from the {talks, and cut them fmall, then boil them in the birch-liquor an hour at lead; fcum it well, and let it ftand till it is as warm as cow’s milk ; then put in the raifins, and let it {land clofe covered, ftirring it well four or five times every day; boil all the {talks in a gal- lon or two of birch-liquor, which, added to the other when alrnoft cold, gives it an agreeable roughnefs.. Let it ftand ten days, then put it in a cool cellar, and when it has done hif- fing in the veflel, flop it up clofe ; let it ftand at leaft three quarters of a year before it is bottled. To procure the Birch-Liquor. IT fhould be taken in the month of March from the birch- tree, while the fap is rifing, before the leaves fhoot out; holes muft be bored in the body of the tree, and foflets put in, which are generally made of the branches of elder, the pith being taken out—the tree may be tapped in four or five places at a time, and by that means fave from many trees feveral gal- lons every day ; the bottles in which it drops muft be corked clofe, and rofined or waxed, but it fhould be ufed as foon as poffible. Birch Wine with Sugar. TO every gallon of birch-liquor put two pounds of good fugar; let the liquor boil half an hour, and fcum it well be- fore the fugar is put in, for it muft boil no longer after the fugar is in, than while fcummed ; then put it through a hair- fieve into a tub, and when it is cold, pour it from the grounds, and put fome yeaft to it; a quart will work up twelve gallons ; let it v/ork twenty-four hours, till it hath a pretty good head ; the veftel muft be entirely filled, and muft be very fweet and ftrong, and fmoaked with brimftone before the wine is put in when it has done working, ftop it up very clofe. Let it ftand ’ in a cool cellar three quarters of a year before bottling. Mead