404 THE LADY’s A S S I S T A N T. Queen Cakes. BEAT one pound of butter to a cream, with fome rofe-wa- ter, one pound of flour dried, one pound of Lifted fugar, twelve eggs; beat all well together: add a few currants wafhed and dried; butter fmall pans of a fize for the purpofe, grate fugar over them : they are foon baked. They may begone in a Dutch oven. Little Seed Cakes. ONE pound of flour well dried, one pound of fugar Lifted ; wafh one pound of butter to a cream with rofe-water; put the flour in by degrees; add ten yolks and four whites of eggs, one ounce of carraway-feeds ; keep beating till the oven is ready ; butter the panswell ; grate over fine fugar; beat the cakes till juft as they are fpt into the oven. To make a light Seed Cake without Butter or Milk. TAKE the yolks of fix eggs, leaving out the whites of three, let them be beat well for half an hour; then put in fix ounces of powdered loaf fugar, mix it well with the eggs, and then put in feven ounces of flour and a few carraway feeds ; ftir the whole well together, and put it into a pan or difli for bak- ing ; if the oven is thoroughly hot, half an hour will bake it; the moment it is taken out of the oven turn it out of the pan, and let it remain uplide-down till it is quite cold. N. B. For a lefs rich cake, four ounces of fugar will be Effi- cient, and put in eight ounces of flour. If care is taken in the baking, a nicer and finer cake cannot be made. Dry Cakes. RUB one pound of butter into one pound of flour, one pound of Lifted fugar (the butter fhould be foaked all night in orange-flower Or rofe-water) ; whip to fnow the whites of eight eggs ; beat the yolks of fix with a little brandy ; mix this very well; butter the pans, only half fill them; they are baked in half an hour; a brifk, not a fcorching oven ; they will keep half a year. If agreeable make them with currants; put three quarters of a pound. To make Mac car oons. New-England Manner. TAKE half a pound of almonds, and as much double-re- fined fugar, beat and Lifted ; lay the almonds in water all night, blanch and dry them well in a cloth, beat them in a mortar with