4*«» THE LADY’S ASSISTANT' The Burton, Nottinghamfhire, Liverpool, and feveral other kind9 of ale* which are much admired, are faid to he brewed with hard water. But Dr. Mead and others condemn the ufe of thefe liquors, as productive of various diforders, and particularly the cholic. From thefe remarks we may reafonably infer, that hard water cannot fo well anfwer thepurpofes of diluting and digefting our food ; as it will not fo readily mix and unite with the different parts of it, nor aifimilatc and di- geft them properly. Befides, the large quantities of acid and nitrous falts, with the loads of felenite and calcareous earth, which thefe waters generally contain, will naturally difpofe them to form obftruCtions, when, by the courfe of circulation, thefe folid particles come into the minuteft veffels, more efpe- cially thofe of the glands. Hence they are often blamed, as laying the foundation of fcrophulous, ftrumoUs, and other glandular fwellings and ob- ItruCtions. It is from the quantity of ftony matter, which the hard waters generally contaib, that moft of them have large incruftations upon the fides of the vef- fels in which they are boiled ; and they have by fome been difapproved for this reafon, as caufing the Hone. But the calculous concretions in the blad- der and kidneys are of a very different nature from thefe incruftations ; and, as Dr. Heberden juftly obferves, “ they totally differ from all foffil ftones in every thing except the name; and the pretended experience of the effects of certain ftony waters in breeding the ftone, may, upon the belt authorities, be rejected as falfe.” The belt way of determining the hardnefs or foftnefs of water, is by fcrap- ing any certain quantity of foap into it, and obferving how it diffolves or la- thers. If water be perfectly loft, the foap will diffolve quickly, uniformly, and without curdling; and, upon fhaking theglafs brifkly, will raife a ftrong froth or lather at the top. But the fmallert: degree of hardnefs will fliew it- felf, either by the foap not diffolving fo readily, by its turning curdly and uneven, or by lefs froth remaining after it is agitated ; and the different de- grees of hardnefs may hereby be very well determined. The belt way of mak- ing this trial is with a fmall quantity of Caltile foap, viz. about a grain to an ounce of water. Rain-water. In fummer-time rain-water brings along with it the feeds and embryos of vegetables and animalcula, which render it difagreeable to the tafte, and pro- mote its putrefaction. If it be kept in wooden veffels, it will foon ftink,and become unfit for ule ; and then, if it be viewed with a microfcope, it will be found to contain an amazing number of various animalcula > and particu- larly thofe which, from their form and motion, are called the wheel ani- mals. Thefe animalcula are fuppofed to be the chief caufe of the water’s pu- trefaction. Rain-water is a little hard, when it firft falls ; but in two or three days it becomes perfectly foft. The rain, which falls through the fmoke of large towns, is rendered foul and black ; more efpecially if it be coHeCted, as it generally is, from the roofs of houfes ; when it brings with it a great many particles of foot, which, give it a very difagreeable talle and colour. Where the tiles are blackened by the fmoke of glafs-houfes, &c. the water which falls from them is unfit lor almolt any domehic purpofes.