238 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. earthen difh that will hold them, rub it all over with butter« lay in the carp3 put in the difh a bunch of fweet herbs, an onion, an anchovy, fome black and white pepper, fait, doves mace, with a little white wine 3 cover it over clofe, and fend them to the oven : if they are large, they will take an hour; if {mail, lefs time will do them : when they are done, take them out with care, put them over fome hot water to keep warm, cover them very clofe : fcum all the fat off the liquor they were baked in, and {train it into a faucepan 3 add to it half a pound of butter rolled in flour. r • TENCH. % To choofe Tench. THEY are a fine frefh-water fifh, and fhould be drefTed alive : the way to judge of their frefhnefs is to examine the gills, which fhould be red, and hard to open, the eyes bright, the body firm and ftiff. The tench is covered with a flimy matter, which, if clear and bright, is a good fign. They are in feafon in July, Auguft, and September. To loil Tench. SCALE them while alive, gut them, and wafh their infidea with vinegar ; put them into a ftew-pan, when the water boils, with fome fait, a bunch of fweet herbs, lemon-peel, and whole pepper 3 put in the tench, cover the ftew-pan clofe, and let them boil quick till they are done 3 then ftrain off fome of the liquor in a faucepan ; and add to it fome walnut-liquor, a lit- tle white wine, a little gravy, an anchovy, and fome oyftersor fhrimps 3 boil thefe ingredients together 3 thicken them up with butter rolled in flour, with a little lemon fqueezed in : pour fome over the fins, the reft in fauce-boats. To roajl Tench. WASH them, and clean them well from their flime; make a little hole as near the gills as poflible ; take out the guts, and clean the throat; make a fluffing with fweet herbs, a little parfley, a few crumbs of bread, a little grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg, with a little bit of butter, mixed all together, and fluff the fifh with them; tie the fifh to the fpit, with two or three fplinters, and roaft them; mix butter and vinegar, and bafte them with it.—Attchovv, fhrimp, or oyfter-fauce. T*