N THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 37? Ratafia Pudding. / TAKE five f re fir laurel leaves, and let them boil in a quart of cream ; take the leaves o it when the cream has once boiled, and put in a pound of Naples bifcuit; add to theie half a pound of butter, a glafs of fack, fome grated nutmeg, and a very little balket-falt; when the ingredients are mixed, take it off and cover it up, and let it cool by degrees ; then blanch two ounces of fweet almonds, beat them to a pafte, and beat up the yolks of five eggs, and as the cream cools put in the eggs and al- monds ; mix them all well together, put it into a difh, grate over it fome fine fugar, fend it to the oven : half an hour will bake it. A light baked Pudding. TAKE eight eggs, beat them well, then mix them with half a pound of butter, half a pound of loaf fugar, and fome grated nutmeg; fet thefe on the fire till thick, then put it into a bafon to cool ; roll a good puff pafte very thin round a difh, put in the pudding, and bake it in a moderate oven : half aa hour will bake it. Lemon Pudding. ‘GRATE two Naples bifeuits, and the rind of two lemons; add the juice of one, half a pound of melted butter, half a pound of fugar, the yolks of ten eggs, five whites, half a pint of cream ; puff" pafte round the difh : bake it about three quar- ters of an hour. An exceeding fine Lemon Pudding. EIGHT ounces of butter, eight ounces of fugar, three mid- dling lemons; the lumps of fugar muft rub oft all the rind ; put them into the faucepan to the butter; take the juice of the lemons, and put it, with a cup of water, to the reft of the in- gredients ; fet it over the fire to fimmer till it is thick, keep it ftirring; then take eight eggs, only four whites, beat them well; put all, well mixed, into a difli, with fome puff pafte round it : half an hour will bake it. N. B. The eggs muft not be mixed with the reft of the in- gredients till they are cold. Orange Pudding. POUR boiling water on the peel of three Seville oranges, let it ftand a little, then bvat them in a mortar; add fix ounces of