THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 302* Hare Another Way to drefs a Hare. STUFF the hare, lard it, and trufs it as for roafting; put it into a fifh-kettle, and put in two quarts of ftrong beef-gravy, one of red wine, a lemon cut in flices, a bunch of fweet herbs, a nutmeg, fome pepper, a little fait, and a few cloves ; cover it very clofe, and let it fimmer over a flow fire till it is three parts done ; then take it up and put it into a difh, and flrew it over with crumbs of bread, a few fweet herbs chopped fine, fome grated lemon-peel, and half a nutmeg ; fet it before the fire, and bafte it till it is of a fine light brown: while the hare is doing, fcum the gravy, thicken it with the yolk of an egg, and a piece of butter rolled in flour : when the hare is enough, put it into the difh, the reft: in a boat. Hare hajhed. CUT it into fmall pieces : if any of the pudding is left, rub it fmall in fome gravy ; to which put a glafs of red wine, a little pepper and fait, an onion, a flice of lemon ; tofs it up till hot through ; take out the onion and lemon. Hare Jiewed. CUT off the legs and fhoulders, cut out the back-bone ; cut the meat which comes off the fides into pieces; put all into a veflel, with three-quarters of a pint of fmall beer, the fame of water, a large onion ftuck with cloves, fome whole pepper, a flice of lemon, fome fait; ftew this gently for an hour, clofe covered ; then put to it a quart of good gravy ; ftew it gently two hours longer, or till tender ; take out the hare, rub half a fpoonful of flour fmooth in a little gravy; put it to the fauce, boil it up ; add chyan and fait, if neceffary ; put in the hare: when hot through, ferve it in a tureen difh. It is an exceed- ing good difh. Hare jugged. CUT it and put it into a jug, with the fame ingredients as before (but neither water nor beer) cover it clofe ; fet it into a kettle of boiling water, which keep boiling three hours, or till the hare is tender ; then pour the gravy into a ftew-pan, put to it a glafs of red wine, and more gravy, if there is not fufficient, a little chyan; thicken with fome flour; boil it up, pour it ever the hare; a little lemon-juice.