THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 193 Soupe au Bourgeois. TAKE a dozen heads of endive, and four or five bunches of celery ; wafh them very clean, cut them into fmall bits, let them be well drained from the water, put them into a large pan, and pour upon them a gallon of boiling water ; fet on three quarts of beef-gravy made for foup, in a large faucepan $ ftrain the herbs from the water very dry : when the gravy boils, put them in 5 cutoff the crufts of two French rolls, break them, and put into the reft ; when the herbs are tender, the loup is enough ; a boiled fowl may be put into the middle, but it is very good without. If a white foup is liked better, itfhould be veal gravy. Soupe Puree. TAKE fome fine young green peafe, put them onto boil in a fmall quantity of water ; give them a boil or two, and then pour away the water ; ftrain the peafe in a fieve, and put them into a marble mortar, beat them to mafh, and put them by 5 then put in a frying-pan half a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of bacon cut like dice, two onions cut fmall, a fprig of thyme, a little parfley, fome pepper, fait, cloves bruifed, and the crufts of two French rolls ; fet the pan on a moderate fire* and ftir it about till the bread is crifp, and the reft of a good brown ; then put it into a ftew-pan, and pour to it three quarts of rich broth; let this fimmer together for half an hour, but be careful to feum off the fat as it rifes, and when it is quite clear from fat, put in the peafe ; ftir all together, and let them boil two or three times, then ftrain it through a hair fieve, and it will run through of a fine thicknefs ; put fome fried bread into the tureen, and pour in the foup. it may be ferved up without any thing elfe ; but there is generally fomething put in the middle: a knuckle of veal boiled or Hewed very white is good, and when in feafon, a green goofe, or ducklings roafted, make it very elegant. 1 Blue Peafe Soup. TAKE a quart or three pints of blue peafe, fet them on to boil in a great deal of water; when they are boiled quite ten- der, beat the peafe to mafh, and then pulp them through a fieve, put them to fome ftrong veal broth ; let them fimmer till the foup is of a proper thicknefs (before the peafe are put to the broth mix them with fome juice of fpinach to colour them, or . . O the