THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 153 jufi: before it is taken up, put in fome pickled mufhrooms, and a little of their liquor; if they are put in before, the cream is apt to turn. Garnifh with forced-meat balls Hewed. Parboil the brains in a bit of cloth, and chop them fmall ; put thera into a faucepan, with a bit of butter, a little white pepper and fait; make them quite hot, and fill fome patties; fill others with. Hewed forced-meat and oyflers : garnifh the calf’s head with, them. Calf’s Head hafhed, brewn. HALF the head only fhould be hafhed, as a whole one makes too large a difh ; parboil it, when cold cut it into thin flices, and the tongue; flour it pretty well, and put it into g. Hew pan with fome good gravy, a quart or more, a glafs of Madeira, an anchovy wiped and boned, a little pounded cloves, chyan, a piece of lemon-peel; let thefe flew gently three quar- ters of an hour ; then add fome ketchup, a few truffles and mo- rells, firfl wafhed ; pickled or frefh mufhrooms ; if frefh, a little juice of lemon ; Hew thefe together a few minutes ; add forced-meat balls fried, and hard yolks of eggs. Dip the brains in hot water, fkin them, beat them fine, and mix them with a little grated lemon-peel, parfley chopped, and favory herbs, favory fpice, chyan, fait, bread crumbs, and yolk of egg ; fry thefe in fmall cakes ; garnifh the hafh with them, oyflers fried, and fliced lemon. Jf for a large company, boil the other half of the head, rub it over with yolk of egg, flrew on bread crumbs., with pepper, fait, a little nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, and chopped parfley ; bafie it before the fire, let it be a nice brown, lay it on the hafh. To few a Calf’s Head. LET it be well wafhed, and laid in water for an hour; take out the brains, bone it, take out the tongue and the eyes ; make a forced-meat with two pounds of beef fuet, and as much lean veal, two anchovies boned and wafhed clean, the peel of a le- mon, and a nutmeg grated, with a little thyme; chop all thefe together, and fome Hale bread grated ; beat up the yolks of four eggs and mix with them. Make part of this forced-meat into fifteen or twenty balls ; then boil five eggs hard, half a p nt of oyflers wafhed clean, and half a pint of frefh mufh- 100ms, if they are to be got: mix thefe with the refl of the forced-meat, and flufi the head from where the bones were taken; tie it up carefully with a packthread, put it into two quarts