THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 1133 To boil Pike a-la-Franfoife. TAKE a large pike, let it be well cleaned, wafhed, and fcaled ; cut it into three pieces ; boil it in an equal quantity of white wine and water, with a bit of lemon-peel ; when the liquor boils put in the pike, with a handful of fait ; when it is enough, lay it on fippets, and flick it with fome little bits of fried bread. Sauce-melted butter, with flices of lemon in it, the yolks of two or three eggs, and fome grated nutmeg ; pour the fauce over the pike, and fend it to table. Pike au fwimmier. TAKE a large pike, gut, wafh, and dry it; make a forced- meat with fome eel, whiting, anchovy, fuet, pepper, fait, bread crumbs, thyme, parfley, a bit of efchalot mixed up with the yolks of eggs ; fill the infide of the fifh with this forced- meat, and few it up ; then draw with a packing-needle fome packthread through the eyes of the fifh, through the middle, and through the tail, in the form of an S ; wafh it over with the yolk of an egg, and then ftrew it over with crumbs of bread : bake it or roaft it, with a caul over it. Sauce—melted butter and capers. Pike au Court Bouillon. WASH and fcale the pike, lay it in a pan, and pour over it fome boiling vinegar and fait ; let it lie for an hour, then take it out, and put into it a feafoning of pepper, a little fait, cloves, fweet-nerbs, an onion, and a bay-leaf, with a piece of butter ; wrap it up in a napkin, and put it into a ftew-pan, with fome white wine, a little verjuice, a lemon fliced, a nutmeg, cloves, and a bay-leaf; make this liquor boil very faff, then put in the pike; when it is enough lay it on a warm difh, ftrain the li- quor into a faucepan ; add to it an anchovy wafhed and boned, a few capers, a little water, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; let thefe fimmer till of a proper thicknefs; then pour them over the fifh. To bake or roajl Pike. IF a large one, make a forced-meat with one pound of fmall pike, or any white fifh, a large onion, fome parfley and fweet herbs chopped fmall, grated lemon-peel, the crumb of near a penny loaf grated, fait, pepper, and cloves pounded, half a j>ound of butter, two yolks of eggs $ fill the pike with this; fkewer 4