276 THE LADY’S ASSISTANT; to be thick, beat up the yolks of two or three eggs, with two or three fpoonfuls of cream, a little nutmeg, ftir it together till it is quite thick; put a bit of butter rolled in flour, and fhake it round : lay the pigeons in the difh, put the gravy to the rice, mix it together, and pour it over them. To boil Pigeons with Artichokes. TAKE fome artichokes, boil them, and take out the bot- toms ; boil fome pigeons, but tuke care they are not over-done ; while they are boiling, make a ragout of fweet herbs and frefh mufhrooms ; they muft be all hot together, and there muft be as many pigeons as artichoke-bottoms ; firft lay in the difh the artichoke-bottoms, then pour on fome of the ragout; then lay a pigeon upon every bottom, fhake a very little pepper over the pigeons, and prick their breafts in two or three places with a fork ; then fhake on a little bafket-falt, and fqueeze over that fome Seville orange, then pour over it the reft of the ragout. Pigeons ftewed. MAKE a fluffing with the livers parboiled and bruifed, a piece of butter, a few bread-crumbs, pepper, fait, pounded - cloves, parfley, fweet herbs chopped, and yolk of egg ; fill the pigeons, tie them at each end, half-roaft or fry them, put them into fome good gravy or beef broth, with an onion ftuck with cloves, a bunch of fweet herbs, a flice of lemon ; let them ftevr very gently till tender; ftrain the fauce, fcum off the fat ; put to it pickled mufhrooms, chyan, forced-meat balls fried, and hard yolks of eggs. The pigeons may be larded. Another Way. HALF roaft or fry the pigeons ; ftew them in cull is : when they are tender, fcum the fauce, thicken it with a little flour ; add a little chopped efchalot, forced-meat balls, hard yolks of eggs, chyan, and lemon-juice. To roaft Pigeons. THEY take about twenty minutes roafting.—Chop fome parfley {'mail ; mix it with fome crumbs of bread, pepper, and fait, with a bit of butter; fluff the pigeons, roaft them on a poor man’s jack. For fauce—parfley and butter. To broil Pigeons. TRUSS and fluff them in the fame manner as for roafting ; 6 let