i43 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. breads and muflirooms; fry the cutlets in melted bacon, of d fine brown; then lay them in a hot dilh, and pour the ragout boiling hot over them. Cutlets 'with four Sauce. CUT them moderately thick ; put them into a faucepan co- vered with water, when half done let them drain and cool ; make a thin batter of eggs and a little flour ; fet a frying-pan on the fire with fome hog’s lard ; when it is hot, dip the cutlets in the batter, and make them a fine brown. For fauce—ver- juice, fait, and pepper ; mix it, and fend it up with the cutlets. Thofe that diflike this fauce, may drefs them with gravy or cullis. Bombarded Veal. HAVING cut out of a fillet of veal five 1 ean pieces as thick as your hand, round them up a little; then lard them very thick on the round fide with little narrow thin pieces of bacon, and lard five fheeps tongues (being firft boiled and blanched) here and there with very little bits of lemon-peel : make a well-feafoned forcemeat of veal, bacon, ham, beef fuet, and an anchovy well beaten ; make another tender forcemeat of veal, beef fuet, mufhrooms, fpinach, parfley, thyme, fweet-marjo- ram, winter-favory, and green onions, feafoned with pepper, fait, and mace, and beat it well ; make a round ball of the other forcemeat, and fluff it into the middle of this; then roll it up in a veal caul, and bake it; tie up what is left like a Bo- logna faufage, and boil it, but firft rub the caul with the yolk of an egg : put the larded veal into a ftew-pan, with fome good gravy, and flew it gently till it be enough : fkim off the fat, put in fome truffles and morells, and fome mufhroom’s. Your forcemeat being baked enough, lay it in the middle, the veal round it, and the tongues fried and laid between : cut the boiled into flices, fry them, and throw them all over ; pour - the fauce on them, and garnith with lemon. You may, if I you pleafe, add artichoke-bottoms, fweetbreads, and cock's combs. Veal Olives. CUT them thin from the fillet (if it is large, one flice will make three olives); rub over them fome yolk of egg, firew on them fome bread crumbs, mixed with parfley chopped, lemon- peel grated, pepper, fait, and nutmeg; lay on every piece a thia I . / J* -