455 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. ing-difh of coals two or three minutes, then ftir it till it is well mixed ; when it is enough lay it upon the bread, and brown it with a falamander. A Welch Rabbit. " ^ TAKE a flice of bread and toaft it on both Tides ; toaft a Hice of cheefe on one fide, lay it on the toaft, and with a hot falamander brown it, and rub Tome muftard over it. A Scotch Rabbit. TOAST a flice of bread of a fine light brown on both fides, butter it; toaft a flice of cheefe on both fides, and put it on the bread. Sandwichs. PUT fome very thin flices of beef, between thin flices of bread and butter ; cut the ends off neatly, lay them in a difti. Veal and ham cut thin may be ferved in the fame manner. Salmagundi. CHOP feparately the white part of a roafted chicken or fome roafted veal, the yolks of four or five eggs boiled hard, the whites of the fame, a large handful of parfley, a JBritifh herring, or half a dozen anchovies, fome beet-root, fome red cabbage, put a faucer or a china bafon into a round difti, or a fmaller difti into a long one, bottom upwards ; lay all thefe ingredients in rows, according to the tafte, making them broad at bottom, and ending in a point at the top ; or they may be laid round in rows ; fpun butter at the top; or butter worked into what form is liked : pickles round, with a little chopped onion or efcha-> lot. Directions for Brewing. THE procefs of brewing is as follows :—After the malt is ground, it ought to ftand four or five days, and care fliould be taken it is very clean. The ingredients being ready, the water muft be made to boil very fpeedily, and while boiling with the greateft violence, the fire muft be immediately damped or put out; when the height of the fleam is over, the water is put into the mafliing-tub to wet the malt; then fo much be- ing poured out as to make it of a confiftence ftiff enough to be maflied ; let it ftand thus a quarter of an hour covered over, af- ter which, another quantity of the water is added, and maflied, io as