304 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT, Partridge to roafl. IT will be done in lefs than half an hour. For fauce-* gravy and bread fauce. Partridges in Panes. TWO or three roafted partridges, if under-done, the better mix them with the crumb of a penny loaf, or more, foaked well with hot gravy, half a pound of fat bacon fcraped, two arti- chokes, and a few truffles and morells, boiled and chopped, yolks of eggs, pepper, fait, nutmeg, and grated lemon-peel \ put this into moulds in the fhape of an egg, ffleeted with thin flices of fat bacon. Serve them with jelly between and over them. Partridges a-la-Paifanne. WHEN they are picked and drawn, trufs the partridges, and put them upon an iron Ikewer; tie them to the fpit, lay them down to roaft ; put a piece of fat bacon upon a toafting- fork, and hold it over the partridges, that as it melts it may drop upon them as they roaft : when they are well bafted with this, duft over them fome crumbs of bread, and fome fait; cut fome efchalots very fine, with a little gravy, fait, and pepper, and the juice of half a lemon; mix all thefe together over the fire, and thicken them up ; pour them into a dilh, and lay the partridges upon them* Partridges a-la-Polonefe. TAKE a brace of partridges; when they are picked and drawn, put a piece of butter into their bellies, put them on the fpit, and then cover them with flices of bacon, over that with paper, and then lay them down to a moderate fire: while they are roafting, cut fome efchalots very fine, and as much parfley ; mix thefe together, and add fome thin flices of ginger, with fome pepper and fait; take a piece of butter, and work them tip into a ftifF pafte: when the partridges are near enough, take them up, gently raife up the wings and legs; under each wing and leg put a piece of the pafte, then hold them tight together, and fqueeze over them a fmal! quantity of orange-juice, and a good deal of zeft from the peel. Send them up hot, with fome good gravy in a fauce-boat. Partridges a-la-RuJJe. TAKE fome young partridges ; when they are pickecTand drawn.