THE LADY’s ASSISTANT." 165 To few a Loin of Mutton. TAKE a loin of mutton cut into (leaks, put it into a fauce- pan, with water enough to cover it ; flew it very gently, and when it has been flammed once or twice, put into it three or four fliced onions, fome turnips, whole cloves, fliced ginger, and a bunch of fweet herbs, pepper, and fait; before it is taken up, put in fome capers : put the meat when done upon fippets, (if they are liked) and pour the ingredients over it. Loin of Mutton forced. BONE it; make a {luffing with bread-crumbs, parfley chop- ped, and fweet herbs, grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, pepper, fait, fuet chopped or butter, yolk of egg ; put this where the bones were taken out, few it up, roaft it: good gravy in the difh. To roafi a Loin of Mutton the Turkifh Way. MAKE fome fluffing of grated bread, fome beef marrow, thyme, parfley, lemon-peel, lavory, two fmall anchovies, all chopped fmall ; two or three cloves, and beaten mace, mixed up with the yolks of two eggs; raife the lkin of the loin, and put the fluffing under it; then fallen it down and roaft it. Sauce—fome good gravy, with a fpoonful of red wine put into it. • To drefs a Saddle of Mutton. TAKE a faddle, and take off the lkin very neatly near the rump, without taking it quite off, or breaking it; take fome lean ham, truffles, green onions, parfley, thyme, fweet herbs, all chopped fmall, with fome fpice, pepper, and fait ; ftrew it over the mutton where the fldn is taken off; put the lkin over it neatly, and tie over it fome white paper well buttered, and roaft it; when it is near enough, take off the paper, ftrew over it fome grated bread, and when it is of a fine brown, take it up. Sauce—fome good gravy. f To drefs a Saddle a St. Menehout. T AKE the lkin off the hind part of a chine of mutton, lard it with bacon, feafon itwith pepper, fait, mace, beaten cloves, and nutmeg, fweet herbs, young onions, and parfley, all chopped fine ; take a large oval or gravy pan, lay layers of bacon, and then layers of beef all over the bottom ; lay in the mutton, then layers of bacon on the mutton, and then a layer of beef 3 put in a pint of wine, and as much good gravy as will M 3 flew S