THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 281 very clear, lay them upon a fheet of writing-paper buttered to keep them from being imoaked. For lauce take a piece of onion or an ei'chalot, an anchovy, and two fpoonfuls of pickled cucumbers, capers, and mu(hrooms ; mince thefe very dm all, each by itfelf; add a little fait, pepper, five or fix fpoon- fuls of oil, a ipoonful of water, the juice of a lemon; mix thefe well together, with a fpoonful of milliard; pour this faucecold into the difh ; when the pigeons are broiled, lay them upon itt Pigeons baked. SEASON them with pepper and fait, put a bit of butter into each, pour over them the following batter—three eggs, two fpoonfuls of flour, half a pint of milk, a little lalt. [Cold pigeons fried. See Chicken.] [Pigeons with a ragout of oyfters. See Chicken, omitting the fluffing.] Pigeons in Pimlico. PARBOIL the livers, bruife them, with fome of the fat and lean of ham or bacon, fome mufhrooms, truffles, parfley, and fweet herbs, beaten mace, pepper, and fait ; beat thefe all to- gether very fine, and mix them with the yolks of eggs; fluff* the pigeons, then roll them in a thin flice of veal, over that a thin flice of bacon ; wrap them up in writing-paper, put them upon a fmall fpit, and roafl them ; make for them a ragout of truffles, morells, mufhrooms, and parfley cut fmall ; put them into a faucepan, with fome rich veal gravy, and a piece of butter rolled in flour, to thicken it ; the pigeons will take near an hour's roafling, bafle them while they are doing; when they are enough, take them up, and pour the ragout over them ; leave fome of the forced-meat, mix it with fome milk or cream, and put it into little hollow bits of pufF-pafle for patties; bake them, and lay them round the pigeons. Pigeons in Difguife. DRAW and trufs them, feafon them with pepper and fait; make a nice pufF-pafle, and roll each pigeon in a piece of it, tie them in a cloth, and take care the pafle does not break ; boil them in a great deal of water, they will take an hour and a half boiling ; take great care, when they are untied, they do not break; put them into a difh, and pour a little good gravy to them. A Bijfque