THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 407 Naples Bifcuit. SIFT a pound of fine fugar, and put to it three quarters of the fineft flour which can be got, it muft be lifted three times ; then add fix eggs well beat, and a fpoonful of rofe-water; when the oven is almofl hot, make them, but take care they are not made up too wet. Nun's Bifcuit. TAKE the whites of fix eggs, and beat them to a froth ; then take half a pound of almonds blanched, beat them fine with the froth of the eggs, as they want moiftening ; then take the yolks, with three quarters of a pound of loaf-fugar, beat thefe well together, and mix the almonds with the eggs and fugar; then put in a quarter of a pound of flour, with the peel of two lemons grated, and citron finely flared ; add a little orange-flower water, or ratafia : bake them in little pans in a quick oven ; when they are coloured, turn them on tins to harden the bottoms ; but before they are put in the oven again, ftrew fome double-refined fugar finely lifted on them ; take care to butter the pans well, and fill them but half full. Sugar Bifcuits. ONE pound of flour, one pound of powder-fugar, a few almonds blanched and pounded, mixed with fix fpoonfuls of rofe-water, and the yolks and whites of eight eggs that have been beat a full hour; when well mixed put it in fmall tins of various fafhions, and bake them only with the heat of an oven after the bread is drawn; flop the oven very clofe. Sugar Puffs. TAKE the whites of ten eggs, beat them till they rife to a high froth ; put them into a flone mortar, or a wooden bowl, add as much double-refined fugar as will make them thick ; put in a little ambergreafe to give them a flavour, rub them round the mortar for half an hour; put in a few carraway- feeds ; take a fheet of wafers, lay them on as broad as a fix- pence, and as high as they can be laid, put them in a moderate oven half a quarter of an hour, and they will look as white as fnow. To make Wafers. TO a pint of cream put the yolks of two eggs well beat; mix it with flour well dried (as thick as a pudding) fugar and D d 4 orange-