THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. i;; Hams, the Torkjhire Way. BEAT them well ; mix half a peck of falt, three ounces of falt-petre, half an ounce of falt-prunella, five pounds of coarfe fugar ; rub the hams well with this, Jay the remainder on the top ; let them lie three days, then hang them up ; put as much water to the pickle as will cover the hams, adding fait till it will bear an egg; boil and ftrain it: the next morning put in the hams, prefs them down fo that they may be covered ; let them lie a fortnight ; rub them well with bran ; dry them. The above ingredients are fufficient for three middling-fized hams. New England Hams. FOR two hams, take two ounces of falt-prunella; beat it fine, rub it well in, and let them lie twenty-four hours; then take half a pound of bay-falt, a quarter of a pound of brown fait, a quarter of a pound of common fait, and one ounce of falt-petre, all beat fine, and half a pound of the coarfeft fugar ; rub all thefe well in, and let them lie two or three days ; then take white common fait, and make a pretty ftrong brine, with about two gallons of water, and half a pound of brown fugar ; boil it well, and feum it when cold; then put in the hams, and turn them every two or three days in the pickle for three weeks, then hang them up in a chimney, and fmoke them well a day or two with horfe-litter ; afterwards let them hang about a week on the fides of the kitchen chimney, then take them down ; keep them dry in a box, with bran covered over them. They may be eat in a month, or will keep very well one year, Wefiphalia Ham. RUB it with half a pound of the coarfeft fugar, and let it lie till night, then rub it with an ounce of falt-petre beat fine, a pound of common fait; let it lie three weeks, turning it every day ; dry it in wood fmoke, or where turf is burnt : when it is boiled, put into the vefiel it is boiled in a pint of oak faw-duft. A Ham to boil. S TEEP it all night in foft water ; a large one fhould fim- mer three hours, and boil gently two; a fmall one fhould fim- mer two hours, and boil about one and a half; pull off the fkm, rub it over with yolk of egg ; ftrew on bread crumbs; fet it before the fire till of a nice 1 io-ht brown. N A Ham