360 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. it well ; pour in fome good gravy when it comes from the oven. A good rump-fteak under the pigeons is a great addi- tion. A rich Pigeon Pie. LAY puff pade at the bottom of the diflr, feafon the pigeons high ; fluff the craws with forced-meat; lay them in the difh, the breads downward ; fill all the fpaces with forced-meat balls, yolks of eggs boiled hard, afparagus tops, artichoke- bottoms cut into pieces; cover it and bake it well : when it comes from the oven pour in fome rich gravy. Stuffing the craws may be omitted, and every other addition but forced- meat balls and hard eggs. I A Vermicelli Pie. TAKE four pigeons, feafon them with a little pepper and fait, fluff them with a piece of butter, a few crumbs of bread, and a little parfley cutfmall ; butter a deep earthen difh well, and then cover the bottom of it with two ounces of vermicelli; make a puff pafte, roll it pretty thick, and lay it on the difh ; then lay in the pigeons, the breads downward : put a thick lid on the pie, and bake it in a moderate oven ; wh<?n it is enough, take a difh proper for it to be fent to table in, and turn ti e pie on it. The vermicelli is then on the top, and looks very pretty. A Shropjhire Pie. .MAKE fome good puff pade, let the fide crud be thick ; cut two rabbits into pieces, two pounds of fat pork cut into little pieces ; feafon them with pepper and fait, cover the did} with crud, lay in the rabbits, and mix the pork with them ; take the livers of the rabbits, parboil and bruife them in a mor- tar, with a little fat bacon, fomefweet herbs, and a few oyfters ; feafon them with pepper, fait, and nutmeg; mix tbefe up with the yolk of an egg into balls, lay them into different parts of the pie, with fome artichoke bottoms cut into pieces, and fome cocks-combs, a fmall nutmeg grated, half a pint of red wine, and half a pint of water: bake it an hour and a half in a quick oven. Ham and Chicken Pie. CUT feme dices, not too thin, from a ham that has been boiled, pepper them, lay them at the bottom cf a.difh, on a goocj