3o6 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. To boil Pheafants. BOIL them in a great deal of water; if large, three quarters of an hour will boil them ; if fmall, half an hour. For fauce white celery ftewed and thickened with cream, a bit of butter rolled in flour; lay the pheafants in the difh, and pour the fauce over them. To ftew Pheafants. STEW them in a ftrong veal gravy (the gravy mull more than cover them) j while they are doing (which mull be very gently) take fome artichoke bottoms parboiled and cut into pieces, fome roafted chefnuts blanched and cut into four, a little mace beat fine, fome pepper, fait, and a little white wine; when the gravy is half wafted, feum it very clean, and put in the ingredients ; if it is not thick enough, put into it a piece of butter rolled in flour ; let it boil; if there is any feum, take it off: lay the pheafants in the difh, and pour the fauce over them. Pheafants a VItalienne. TAKE the livers, and cut them fmall: if only one pheafant is to be drefled, take but half a dozen oyfters, parboil them, and put them into a ftew-pan, with the liver, a piece of butter, fome green onions, and fome parfley, pepper, and fait, fome fweet herbs, and a little all-fpice ; let them ftand a very little time over the fire, and fluff the pheafant with them ; then put it into a ftew-pan, with fome oil, green onions, parfley, fweet- bafil, and lemon-juice, for a few minutes; take them off, co- ver the pheafant with flices of bacon, and put it upon a fpit ; tie fome paper round it while it is roafting. Take fome oyfters, ftew them a little in their own liquor; take a ftew-pan, put into it the yolks of four eggs, half a lemon cut into fmall dice, a little beaten pepper, a little feraped nutmeg, a little parfley cut fmall, a jocombole, an anchovy cut fmall, a little oil, a fmall glafs of white wine, a piece of butter, and a little ham cullis ; put the fauce over the fire to thicken, take care it does not burn ; put in the oyfters, and make the lauce reliftiing : when the pheafant is done, lay it in the difh, and pour the fauce over it. pi Pheafant a-la-Braize. TAKE a ftew-pan, put a layer of beef at the bottom, then the fame of veal, a thin ilice of bacon, a little bit of carrot, an onion