THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 35i them on a fieve, and lay them out by every Angle leaf on a table or drefler, put them in the fun, or in a flow oven, to dry, and let them be as dry as it is poflible. The Pickle. Take half a pound of muftard-feed, wafli and lay it to dry, when it is very dry, bruife half of it; take a quarter of a pound of ginger, cut it in pieces, fait it, and let it ftand a week; take an ounce of pepper, with a gallon of the belt vinegar, and a handful of fait, boil them, and let them ftand till they are cold; lay in ajar a row of cabbage, a row of beans, and cauliflowers, and throw between every row the muftard-feed, fome Jamaica pepper, fome black pepper., fome ginger ; mix an ounce of tur- meric powdered, put in by degrees alfo the muftard-feed which was not bruifed, pour over the vinegar when all the other in- gredients are in ; cover over the jar with bladder and leather as ufual. It is better the iecond year than the nrft. Lemons. THEY fhould be fmall, and thick rind ; rub them with a piece of flannel, flit them in four parts, a little above half way dawn, but not through to the pulp ; nil the flits hard with fait, let them upright in a pan, let them ftand four days, or longer if the fait is not melted; turn them three times a day in their own liquor till they are tender : make a pickle of rape vinegar, the brine from the lemons, Jamaica pepper and gin- ger ; boil and feum it; when cold put it to the lemons, with two ounces of muftard-feed, three cloves of garlic : this is fuf- ficient for fix lemons. Indian Pickle, or Peccalillo. TAKE white cabbage quartered, cauliflower, cucumbers, melons, apples, French beans, plumbs; all or any of thefe: lay them on a hair fieve, ftrew over a large handful of fait, fet them in the fun for three or four days, or till very dry : put them into a ftone jar with the following pickle—Put a pound of race-ginger into fait and water, the next day ferapeand flice it, fait it, and dry it in the fun ; flice, fait, and dry a pound'^of garlic : put thefe into a gallon of vinegar, with two ounces of long pepper, half an ounce of turmeric, a quarter of a pound of muftard-feed bruifed ; ftop the pickle clofe, then prepare the cabbage, &c. If the fruit is put in it muft be green. N. B. The jar need never be emptied, but put in the things as they come into feafon, adding frefh vinegar. Afparagus,