THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 283 wife out the mace, onion, and fweet herbs; have ready the yolks of two or three eggs, beat very fmooth, with fome nut- meg grated, put them into the fauce, keep them ftirring till it is thick, but do not let them boil or fimmer, for fear of curd- ling ; when the fauce is fine and thick, pour it over the pi- geons ; have ready fome dices of bacon toafted, and fried oyfters, ftrew the oyfters over the pigeons, and lay the bacon round. To jug Pigeons. WHEN the pigeons are picked and drawn, let a little water juft run through them ; parboil the livers, and bruife them with the back of a fpoon ; mix with them fome pepper, fait, grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, and parfley fhred very fine j mix with them as much fuet as liver, cut very fmall, and the yolks of two eggs boiled hard and cut very fine; mix thefe together with raw eggs, and fluff the pigeons, tie up the necks and vents ; dip the pigeons in water, then feafon them with pepper and fait; lay them in the jug, with two or three pieces of ce- lery ; flop them very clofe, that no fleam may come out ; fet them in a kettle of cold water, lay a tile on the top of the jug, let it boil three hours ; take them out, put them into a difti; take out the celery, and put in a piece of butter rolled in flour, {hake it round till thick, and pour it over the pigeons. Pigeons in Jelly. THEY are done in the fame manner as chickens. Potted Pigeons. SEASON them very high with pepper and fait, put them into a pot with butter in lumps, bake them ; pour off the fat and gravy; when it is cold take the butter from the top, put more to it; clarify it, pour it over the pigeons put fingly into a pot, with a little more feafoning added to them. Another Way. RONE the pigeons, turn them infide out, rub them with a little falt-petre ; let them lie four days ; feafon them very high with pepper and fait, a little pounded mace ; turn them again, put them clofe into the pot, leaving a vacancy in the middle of the pot; bake them ; pour off all the gravy, prefs the pi- geons tight together, pour over clarified butter ; let themftand in a cool place three or four days before they are wanted. Do fevcral