THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 289 U’ith crumbs of bread crifped, heap them high ; lay the yollcs between, pour over the fauce. If there is no gravy, they will do without. Eggs fried. BOIL fome eggs hard, flice them, fry them quick in butter ; take them out with a flice, lay them before the fire ; pour the fat out of the pan, {hake in fome flour, young onions, or ef- chalot chopped, a little beef-broth, pepper, fait, grated nut- meg, and a little lemon-peel; boil this up; if not thick enough, ftir in a bit of butter mixed with flour ; pour the lauce over the eggs. Eggs with Cucumbers. PEEL fome cucumbers; cut them in half, take out the feeds, flice them and fome onion, fieep them in fait and vinegar an hour, dry and fry them ; when a little brown flour them ; put to them fome good gravy, let them flew; the fauce muft not be thin ; if not tart enough, add a little lemon-juice, and pepper and fait, if wanted ; poach or fry fome eggs, then cut the whites neatly round, ferve them On the cucumbers. N. B. Eggs may be ferved in the fame manner, with ftewed celery, peafe, lettuce, afparagus, endive, or any other roots ; or with a ragout of mufhrooms. Eggs with Sorrel. BOIL fome forrel, and ftrain it very well from the water; put the forrel in a faucepan with a large piece of butter, {hake it round till it is melted, and the forrel very hot ; have ready fome toafts cut with three corners, and fried of a light brown ; poach fix eggs, three hard, three foft, lay the forrel in a difh, the foft eggs upon it, the hard between, and flick in the toafts here and there. Egg Marmalade. TAKE the yolks of a dozen or two of eggs, according to the quantity wanted ; if twenty-four, a pound of the beft rnoiffc fugar muft be clarified, then add to it a fpoonful of orange- flower water, one ounce of blanched or pounded almonds, flir them together over a very flow charcoal fire one way, till it comes to a confiftency, then put it into cups or tins. This marmalade, mixed with almonds beat fine, orange or lctnon- pee), and citron, will make into all forts of fhape. U A Fri-