4S4 'THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. gether three days, ftirring it three or four times a day, then tiin it up ; bottle it at four months end. To make Currant Wine. GATHER your currants when full ripe, fqueeze them, and prefs out all the juice through an hair fieve ; throw the ftalks into cold water, ftrain them out alfo through an hair fieve; to every gallon of juice put two gallons of water ; and to every gallon of liquor, when mixed, put three pounds and a half of the beft Lifbon lugar ; put it in a tub, and let it {land two or three days, ftirring it twice a day ; then put it in a cafk, and let it ftand ten or twelve months—you muft notftop it up until it hath done finging : when you draw it off, bottle all that is fine ; and let the thick run through a flannel bag, and put it into the cafk again with a little fugar, juft to keep it from fpoiling, and let it ftand until it is fine. When you firft put your wine into your cafk, before it has done working, you muft lay a piece of paper over the bung ; and when it hath done working, flop it up clofe. That which is racked off through the flannel muft be.flop- ped up directly, when put into the cafk. N. B. A pint of brandy may be put in when it is working (that is, in a ftate of fermentation) and another pint when the fermentation is flopped : the above quantity of brandy to about twenty gallons of wine. Another Way to make Currant Wine. TAKE five quarts of the juice of currants.; fourteen pounds of fugar will make a five-gallon cafk ; fill it up with water, and let it all work together ; when it has done working, put in a quart of brandy, and a hop or two. Orange Wine. TO every fix gallons of fpring water, one ftone of the beft powder fugar, and the whites of five eggs beat up to a frotn ; let it boil near two hours flowly; when it is quite cold, add the juice of fifty Seville oranges, fo thin pared that none of the white remains; add five fpoonfuls of barm, beat up with as much fyrup of citron, or of oranges ; let it ftand two days and two nights ; when it is tunned, add to it two bottles of moun- tain wine ; tun up the rinds and all together. Let it ftand fix months or more ; if it is not fine in that time, it muft be fined.