THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 477 According to fome writers, bell-metal is a compofition of tin and coppeY, or pewter and copper, in the proportion of twenty pounds of pewter, or twen- ty-three pounds of tin, to one hundred weight of copper. According to others, this metal is made of copper, a tboufand pounds ; tin, from two to three hundred pounds; and brafs, one hundred and fifty pounds. Spoons and other kitchen utenfils are frequently made of a mixed metal, called alchemy ; or, as it is vulgarly pronounced, ockimy. The ruft of this metal, as well as the former, is highly pernicious. The author of a trafl, entit'ed, “ Serious Refleflions on the Dangers attending theUfeof Copper Velfels,” publilhed atLondon in 1755, afferts, that *' the greater frequency of palfies, apoplexies, madnefs, and all the frightful train of nervous diforders, which fuddenly attack us, without our being able to account for the caufe, or which gradually weaken our vital faculties, are the poifonous effects of this pernicious matter, taken into the body infenfibly with our victuals, and thereby intermixed with our blood and juices.” However this maybe, it is certain, that there have been innumerable inftan- ces oi the pernicious confequences of eating food drelfed in copper velfels, not fufficiently cleaned from this ruft. On this account the Senate of Sweden, about the year 1753, prohibited copper velfels, and ordered, that none but fitch as were made of iron Ihould be ufed in their fleets and armies. But if copper velfels are Hill continued, every cook and good houfewife Ihould be particularly careful in keeping them clean and well-tinned : and Ihould fuller nothing to remain in them longer than is abfolutely necelfary for the purpofe of cookery. Remedy. “ The common cure,” fays Dr Meacf, “ of all poifons taken into the fto- mach, muft be by throwing them up again, by vomiting as foon as poflible, and defending the membranes from their pungent acrimony. Drinking very lai ge quantities of warm milk, with oil of fweet almonds, till the vomiting C(rnS> anfwer the firft intention. The other, in mineral poifons, (for the effects of vegetable poifons, after they have been vomited up, generally go off by diluting plentifully v/ith foft and fat liquids) requires particular care, which may be in this way. The force of thefe depends upon a combination of me- ta.nc particles with l'aline cryftals: therefore the difuniting of thefe muft deftroy tn-ii power. This may be done by drinking a quantity of a lixivium made b/ a folution of fait of tartar in water : for this fait, uniting with the corro- *'uiCT) *ai mC after fome degree of effervefcence, kill it, as the che- mrfts freak ; by which means, being difengaged from the mineral globules, it will be rendered of no effea.” 6 6 Solution or Salt of Lead. /• . • Is a m?ta‘ eafily corroded, elpecially by the warm fleams of acids, fab of I V1?e?ar’ ^y,lei » lemon-juice, rheni(h-wine, &c. And this folution, or 13 a n°w aml ,nfit|ious, though certain poifon. The glazing of all or,- «;Th a°f uWn ware 15 either lead or lead ore. If black, h is lead yellow pr0P0.r,,®n of manganefe, which is a fpecies of iron ore. If v/hi-e clav nn I 2m^ °r,e’ anc* aPPears ycllowifh by having fome pipe or Sffd, *12, iThe CO 0Ur °r tl,e common P°'tery ™re ® red, as the Zrolz thSttL0* ^ f3me C 3y W,th common. bricks. Thefe veflels are fo rfairinw a,™ IC^ are F’^ebated by all falts, acid or alkaline, and are unfit for g • y a me ubftance. They arc improper, though too often ufed, for prelervirg