H 4 paper. ) THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 167 cannot be ferved immediately, put the mutton into the fauce to keep hot. Mutton a-la-Maintenon. CUT fome fhort {leaks from a neck of mutton; make a forced-meat with crumbs of bread, a little fuet chopped, or a bit of butter, lemon-peel grated, ihred parfley, pepper, fait, and nutmeg, mixed up with yolk of egg ; pepper and fait the fteaks, lay on the forced-meat ; butter fome half fheets of writing- paper, in each wrap up a fteak, twilling the paper neatly ; fry them, or do them in a Dutch oven ; ferve them in the paper, a little gravy in the difh, fome in a boat ; garnifh with pickles. Breaft of Mutton grilled. HALF boil it, fcore it, pepper and fait it well, rub it with yolk of egg, ftrew on crumbs of bread and chopped parfley; broil it, or roaft it in a Dutch oven; ferve it with caper- fa uce. To collar a Breajl of Mutton. TAKE the Ikin off, and bone it, roll it up in a collar like the breaft of veal; put a quart of milk, and a quarter of a pound of butter in the dripping-pan, and bafte it well while it is roafting. Sauce—good gravy in the difh and in a boat, and currant jelly in another. Mutton Steaks baked. CUT a loin of mutton into fteaks, feafon them with pepper and Lit; butter a difh and lay them in : take a quart of milk, fix eggs well beat, and four fpoonfuls of flour; beat the flour and egg together in a little milk, and then put the reft to it; put in fome beaten ginger and fait, pour it over the fteaks, and fend it to bake; half an hour will bake it. , Mutton Chops in Difguife. TAKE as many chops as you choofe, and rub them witli pepper, fait, nutmeg, and a little parfley; roll each chop in half a ftieet of white paper, well buttered on the infide, and rolled on each end clofe : have fome hog’s lard, or beef drip- ping, boiling in a ftew-pan ; put in the fteaks, fry them of a fine brown, lay them in your difh, and garnifh with fried parfley; throw fome all over them, and have a little good gravy in a cup; but take great care that you do not break the