■ * ij2 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. into a marble mortar, and beat them well together till the meat is yellow; then put it into pots, and cover it with clarified butter. Ox-Cheek. DRESS it in the fame manner as the leg of beef; take care to make it very clean. To pet Ox-Cheek. TAKE an ox-cheek, if too large, half a one, wafli it well and bone it, rub it over with the fame ingredients that areufed to potted beef, and fet it into an oven until it is tender; then take out the fat, the fkin, and the palate ; add to a pound of the meat two ounces of the fat that fwims on the top of the liquor, beat it together in a mortar, and manage it as potted beef. To boil a Tongue. IF it is a dried one, deep it all night in water, boil it three hours ; if out of pickle, wafh it only ; boil it two hours (this for a middling-fized tongue), peel it, run a filver fkewer through it. To pickle a Tongue. RUB it well with fait, and let lie four or five hours, pour off the foul brine ; take two ounces of falt-petre beat fine, and rub it all over the tongue ; then mix a quarter of a pound of bay-lalt, a quarter of a pound of brown fugar, and an ounce of falt-prunella (the bay-falt and falt-prunella beat very fine) and rub it well over the tongue ; let it lie in this pickle three or four days; make a brine of a gallon of water with common fait, ftrong enough to bear an egg, half a pound of brown fugar, two ounces of falt-petre, and a quarter of a pound of bay-falt; boil it a quarter of an hour, feum it well ; when cold, put in the tongue ; let it lie in this pickle a fortnight or three weeks, turning it every day ; either boil it out of the pickle, or hang it in wood frnoke to dry. To roajl a Tongue or Udder. PARBOIL the tongue and udder, ftick in them ten or twelve cloves, roafl: them and bafle them with red wine, froth them with a piece of butter. Sauce—gravy and fweet fauce. The udder eats well boiled with the tongue. To roa(l a Tongue, and to fluff the Udder with Force-meat. BOIL the tongue and udder until they are tender, peel the tongue, V-