440 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. it into a pot of cold water, as much as will cover the neck of the jug, boil them in the water till the fruit comes to a pafte, then turn them out on a hair-fieve placed over a pan ; prefs out all the jelly, and ftrain it through a jelly-bag; take one pound and a quarter of double-refined fugar, boil it till it is the crackling height, take it from the fire, put in the jelly, and fi-ir it over a clear fire, till the fugar is all incorporated : take it from the fire, feum it well, and fill the cake-glaffes, and dry them as before diredled. The clear-cakes and paftes mull: be filled out as quick as poffible : tor if they cool, they will jelly before they are put into the glaffes. - . ' * . White Rafbevry Clear-cakes ARE made after the fame manner, only mixing white raf- berries with the infufion. To preferve or dry Samphire. TAKE it in bunches as it grows ; put on the fire a large, deep flew-pan full of water, when it boils, throw in a little fait, put in the famphire ; when it looks of a fine green, takeoff the pan diredfly, and take out the famphire with a fork; lay it on lieves to drain ; and when cold, either preferve it, or dry it, as diredled for the barberries. They look very well candied. • Strawberries Preferred. BRUISE fome white goofeberries ; to a pint and a half of juice, two pounds of fugar, boil and feum it; when a thick fiyrup, put in the ftrawberries, three quarters of a pound ; boil them up faff till they jelly and look clear ; (lefs than a quarter of an hour will do them) ftir them gently till near cool; put brandy-paper. Strawberry Giant. TAKE fome fcarlet ftrawberries very ripe, bruifethem very fine ; put to them fome ftrawberry-juice, take their weight in fine fugar fifted, put them into a prelerving-pan, and fet them over a flow fire; keep feumming them, and let them boil twenty min’lites, then put them in pots or glaffes. Strawberry Marmalade. SQUEEZE the ftrawberries through a fieve, weigh them, and put to them an equal quantity of loaf-fugar beat fmall; put the ftrawberries into a preferving-pan, and the fugar to them