THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. i©$ foup off into a clean ftew-pan ; put in the herbs, with a good piece of butter ftirred into it till it is melted ; then let it boil for fome time till it is very fmooth ; if any fcum arifes, take it off very clean ; foak a fmall French roll, nicely rafped, in fome of the loup ; put it in the middle, pour in the foup, and fend it to table. Almond Soup. BLANCH a quart of almonds, and beat them in a marble mortar, with the yolks of twelve hard eggs, till they become a line pafte: mix them by degrees with two quarts of new milk, a quart of cream, a quarter of a pound of double-refined fugar beaten fine, and ftir all well together : when it is well mixed, fet it over a flow fire, and keep it ftirring quick all the while, till you find it to be thick enough : then pour it into your dilh, and fend it to table. If you be not very careful, it will curdle. Peafe Soup without Meat. A Britilh herring, with a pint of peafe, celery, See. make good peafe foup. Turnip Soup without Meat. TAKE a bunch of turnips, pare them, and put them into a gallon of water, with half an ounce of white pepper, an onion ftuck with cloves, a bunch of fweet herbs, fome mace, half a nutmeg, and a large cruft of bread ; let them fimmer near an hour and an half; ftrain it through a fieve; wafh four or five heads of celery very clean, cut them into fmall pieces, put them into the foup, with two whole raw turnips, and two young carrots cut in pieces; cover them very clofe, and let them ftew; then cut fome more turnips and carrots in dice, flour and fry them brown in butter, with two large onions cut thin ; put them into the foup, with fome vermicelli; let it all ftew very foftly till the celery is tender, and the foup good. Milk Soup. TAKE two quarts of new milk, with two fticks of cinna- mon, a couple of bay-leaves, a very little bafket-falt, and a very little fugar ; then blanch half a pound of fweet almonds while the milk is heating, beat them up to a pafte in a marble mortar; mix with them, by degrees, fome milk ; while they are beating, grate the peel of a lemon, with the almonds and a * little