/ •< 3jo THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. bay fait, rock fait, and bafket fait. Sea fait is made by boiling and evaporating lea water over the fire. Bay fait, by evaporat- ing fea water in pits, clayed on the infide by the heat of the fun. Bafket fait is made by boiling away the water of fait fprings over the fire. Rock fait is dug out of the ground, and when very fine, is called falt-gemme. There are only two kinds of falt-petre ; they go by different names : that which is purified is called falt-petre, and that which is rough as it conies from abroad, is called petre-falt. The pure falt-petre is much ftronger than the other. S U G v- A R. SUGAR is the product of the Eaft and Weft Indies. It is a kind of reed, but is called a fugar-cane. 1 he reed is of the nature of ours, only much larger. The fugar is made of its juice boiled up to a confidence. At firft it is very coarfe and brown, but is refined, after it is brought over, by our fugar- bakers. O I L. THERE are many forts of oil, but only one ufed for the table, which is that produced by the olive. Thofe which we eat, are gathered before they are ripe ; but when the oil is to be preffed from them, they are left upon the tree till full ripe, and preffed when they are almoft rotten. We have oil from moft of the warm parts of Europe, but it is different in purity and value, by the lcfier or greater care taken in the making of it. Italian oil is generally the fineft. That of Lucca and Florence is particularly efteemed. They make very good oil in France. In the choice of oil we are to judge by the fmell and tafte. It Ihould be free from both. In general any fmell or tafte is a fault. Oil fhouid he quite pure and infipid, its only quality being foftnefs. In cold weather, oil congeals, and its purity may be guefl'ed by its appearance 5 for the finer the oil, the fmaller are the lumps. VINEGAR. To make common Vinegar. TAKE a middling fort of beer, but indifferently hopped $ when it has done working, and is quite fine, put into it fome rapes ; mafh them together in a tub, let it ftand till it fettles, then draw it off very clear, and put it into a cafk $ cover the bung