2*0 THE LADY’S ASSISTANT. drained, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a blade or two of mace; cover them clofe, and let them ftew foftlv ; {hake the pan often,' to prevent its burning: when the fifh is enough, Jake out the onion and fweet herbs, lay the cod in a warmdifh and pour the fauce over it. To broil Cod. CUT a cod in flices two inches thick, dry and flour them well; make a good clear Are ; rub the gridiron with a piece of chalk, and fet it high from the fire : turn them often, till they are quite enough, and of a fine brown. They require a great deal of care to prevent them from breaking. Lobfter or fihrimp fauce. $o crimp Cod. TAKE a cod (it fhould be very new) cut it into flices, and throw it into pump-water and fait: fet over a ftove a fifh-ket- tle, or ftew-pan, (according to the quantity of fifh) almoft full of fpring-water, and fait enough to make it tafte brackifh ; make it boil very quick, and then put in the flices of cod, and keep them boiling; fcum them very clean: they will take about eight or nine minutes ; then take out the fifh, and lay them on a fifh-plate. Shrimp or oyfter-fauce. To broil crimped Cod. PUT a gallon of pump-water into a pot, and fet it on the fire, with a handful of fait; boil it up feveral times, and keep it clean fcummed ; when it is well cleared from the fcum, take a middling cod, as frefti as poflible, throw it into a tub of frefh pump-water ; let it lie a few minutes, and then cut it into flices two inches thick, throw thefeinto the boiling brine, and let it boil brifkly a few minutes; then take out the flices; take great care not to break them, and lay them on a fieve to drain; when they are well dried, flour them, and lay them at a diftance upon a very good fire to broil.—Lobfter or fhrimp fauce. To fricajfee Cod. TAKE a pound of large cod, and the founds (which mud he blanched, and if dried, they muft be boiled till tender) alfo the roe blanched and wafhed clean, and the liver; cut them jn round pieces, put them all into a ftew-pan, the large pieces ©f cpdin the middle, with a bunch of fweet herbs, a quarter of a pint