THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. 213 wine, almoft enough to cover it, anchovy, fait, nutmeg, and a little ginger ; put in the fifb, and let it ftew till halt the liquor is wafted ; then take it out, and put in a piece of butter roiled in flour, and a minced lemon ; let them fimmer till of a proper tincknefs; rub a hot difh with a piece of efchalot; lay the turbot in the difh, and pour the fauce over it. SALMON. T0 cboofe Salmon. SALMON, if new, the flefh is of a fine red, but particu- larly fo at the gills ; the fcales fhould be very bright, and the fifh very ftiff. The Thames falmon is generally efteemed the beft, though fome prefer that which is caught in the Severn. It is in feafon in the fpring. To boil Salmon. IT requires to be well boiled : a piece not very thick will take half an hour : boil horfe-radifh in the water; fried fmelts may be laid round it; garnifh with horfe-radifh and fliced le- mon.—Anchovy fauce, and plain butter. To boil Salmon crimp. WHEN the falmon is fcaled and gutted, cut ofF the head and tail, and cut the body through into flices an inch and a half thick, throw them into a large pan of pump-water: when they are all put in, fprinkle a handful of bay-falt upon the water, ftir it about, and then take out the fifh; fet on a large deep ftew-pan, boil the head and tail, but do not fplit the head; put in fome fait, but no vinegar: when they have boiled ten minutes, fcum the water very clean, and put in the flices: when they are boiled enough, take them out, lay the head and the tail in the difh, the flices round. This muft be for a large company. The head or tail may be drefled alone, or with one or two flices ; or the flices alone. It is done in great perfection in the falmon countries ; but if the falmon is very frefh, it will be very good in London, Salmon boiled in Wine. TAKE fome flices of bacon, fat and lean together, a pound of veal cut thin, and a pound and a half of beef; ftrew over them fome pepper and fait, and put them in a deep ftew-pan; P 2 theft