173 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. A Ham to roaft. TAKE off the (kin, and fteep it three hours in warm water ; then take it out, and pour over it a bottle of Madeira, and let it foak ail night : before it is fpitted, put a pafte all over it, as for venifon ; pour what is left of the Madeira into the dripping-pan, with fome mope, if it is a large ham, and bafte it with the wine while it is roafting : it muft at firft be laid at a diftance from the fire, which muft be a very good one ; when it is half done put it nearer, and when near enough take off the pafte, bafte it well with the wine, and ftrew it over with bread crumbs, or ftired parfley ; ftir the fire, and make it of a fine light brown. A gammon of bacon is very good done the fame way. Ham a-la-Braize. TAKE off the (kin, and lay it in foak all night; take fome Dices of beef and bacon, beat and feafon them well with fweet herbs and fpice, lay them at the bottom of a large kettle, with onions, parfnips, and carrots ; fome fweet herbs and parfley put in the ham ; lay the fat fide uppermoft ; lay on fome dices of beef, and over that dices of bacon ; then lay on fome car- rots, parfnips, and Iweet herbs ; cover it very clofe, and cover the top with pafte ; put a flow fire over and under it, and let it ftew twelve hours ; then put it in an earthen dilh, ftrew it over with grated bread, and brown it with a falamander. Bacon. RUB the flitches with common fait exceedingly well; let them lie fo that the brine can run from them ; in about a week put them into a tub for the purpofe, rubbing off all the fait : rub the flitches with one pound of falt-petre, pounded and heated ; the next day rub them well with fait, dry and hot; let them lie a week, often rubbing them; then turn them ; add more hot fait ; let them lie three weeks or a month in all, rub- bing them well; then dry them. The hog may be either fealded or finged, but finged is beft. A Hog's Head like Brawn. WASH it well, boil it till the bones will come out; whe» cold put the inlide ot the cheeks together, with fait between : put the cars round the fidcs ; put the checks into a cloth, prefs them into a iieve, or any thing round ; put on a weight for two days ;