292 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT: To make Egg Soup. BEAT the yolks of two eggs in your difh, with a piece cvf butter, the fize of a hen’s egg: take a tea-kettle of boiling water in one hand, and a fpoon in the other; pour in about a quart by degrees, then keep ftirring it all the time well till the eggs be well mixed, and the butter melted; then pour it into a faucepan, and keep ftirring it all the time, till it begins to Dimmer : take it off the fire, and pour it between two veffels, out of one into another, till it be quite fmooth, and has a great froth : fet it on the fire again, and keep ftirring it till it be quite hot; then pour it into the foup-difh, and fend it to table hot. Eggs hajhed. BOIL eggs hard, flice them ; fry an onion diced in butter > put in the eggs, a little good gravy, chopped parfley, pepper, and fait: ferve them hot. An Amlet. BEAT fix eggs with a little flour : put a quarter of a pound of butter into a frying-pan ; when the butter is hot, pour in the eggs; ftrew on parfley and chives chopped, pep- per, fait, and nutmeg ; fry it brown on the under fide; do not turn it, but brown the upper fide with a falamander. An Amlet of Afparagus. BEAT fix or eight eggs with fome cream, cut the green heads of afparagus about the fize of peafe, firft boiled ; mix them with the eggs, fome pepper and fait; fry this in batter, cither the fize of the pan, or the fize of fritters. Eggs ‘with Orange Juice. SQUEEZE the juice of a couple of large Seville oranges, ftrain it through a fieve, and mix it with as much water, and a fpoonful of white wine; break eight eggs, beat up the yolks and whites together, with a little balket-falt, and ftir in by de- grees the juice and water; fet on a ftew-pan with fome rich mutton gravy, pour in the eggs, and keep ftirring it well to- gether, that it may not thicken at the bottom or fides of the pan ; when they are done, put them into a lmall dilh. i To pickle Eggs. BOIL the eggs very hard ; peel them, and put them into cold water,- fhifting them till they are cold. Make a pickle