266 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. White Fricajfee of Chickens. SKIN them, cut them to pieces, lay them in warm water ; flew them in a little water, with a piece of lemon-peel, a little white wine, an anchovy, an onion, two or three cloves, a bunch of fweet herbs; when tender take them out, ftrain the liquor, put a very little of it into a quarter of a pint of thick cream, with four ounces of butter, a little flour: keep it conftantly fiirring till the butter is melted ; put in the chickens, a little grated lemon-peel, and pounded mace, a little lemon-juice and mufhroom-powder; fhake all together over the fire. If agree- able, put in pickled mufhrooms, and omit the lemon-juice. Brown Fricajfee of Chickens. - SKIN them, cut them to pieces, fry them a nice brown, in frefli butter, drain them on a fieve, pour off the butter; put fome good gravy or beef broth into the pan, firft fhaking in fome "flour, keep it ftirring over the fire ; add ketchup, a very little efchalot chopped, fait, chyan, and lemon-juice, or pickled mufhrooms; boil tfiefe up; put in the chickens, fhake them round. Chicken pulled. TAKE a chicken that has been roafted or boiled, if under- done the better, cut off the legs and the rump and fide-bones together ; pull all the white part in little flakes, free from fkin; tofs it up with a little cream, thickened with a piece of butter mixed with flour ; ftir it till the butter is melted, with pounded mace, white pepper, and fait, a little lemon-juice. Put this into a difh, lay the rump in the middle, the legs at each end, peppered, faked, and broiled. Chicken hafhed, called Bichamele. CUT a cold chicken to pieces, little bones and all; if there is no o-ravv, make a little with the long bones, onion, fpice, &c. flour the chicken, put it into the gravy, with white pep- per, fait, nutmeg, and grated lemon-peel; let it boil; then ftir in an egg mixed with a little cream ; when it is taken oft the fire, fqueeze in a little lemon-juice; put it into a difh, lay over it fome bread-crumbs ; brown them with a falamander. Chicken in Jelly. POUR fome jelly into a bowl, when cold, lay in a cold roafted chicken, breaft downward ; fill up the bowl with je y juft warm, but as little as poflible fo as not to be fet; w en