176 THE LADY’s ASSISTANT. and roll it to the fliank ; have ready a pint of ftrong gravy, and put to it a pint of red wine, two anchovies, a bunch of fweet herbs, the yolks of four eggs boiled hard and pounded fine, with a quarter of a pound of butter, the juice of a lemon, two fpoonfuls of ketchup ; boil the gravy and red wine well toge- ther, and the anchovy with it: ftrain thefe oiF, and add the other ingredients ; let them boil a few minutes : froth the pork, take it up, and pour the fauce over it—put fome in a boat. To fluff a Chine of Pork. TAKE a chine of pork that has hung four or fi/e days ; make fome holes in the lean, and fluff it with a little of the fat leaf, chopped very fmall, fome parfley, thyme, a little fage and efchalot cut very fine, feafoned with pepper, fait, and nutmeg: it muft be fluffed pretty thick; have fome good gravy in the difh. For fauce—apple-fauce and potatoes. Pork Cutlets. SKIN a loin of pork, and divide it into cutlets; flrew fome parfley and thyme cut fmall, with fome pepper, fait, and grated bread over them : broil them of a fine brown ; have ready fome good gravy, a fpoonful of ready-made muflard, two efcha- lots fhred fmall ; boil thefe together over the fire, thickened with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little vinegar, if agreeable. Put the cutlets into a hot dilh, and pour the fauce over them. Pork pickled. BONE it, cut it to pieces ; rub each piece with common fait; lay them on a flanting board, that the brine may run off: the next day rub each piece with pounded falt-petre; dry fome fait, and put a layer at the bottom of the pan, then a layer of pork, fo on till the pan is full : fill all the hollow places with fait, and lay fait on the top ; cover the pan. Half a pound of falt-petre is enough for a middle-fized pig. Hams. RUB a ham with a quarter of a pound of falt-petre ; let it lie twenty-four hours ; boil one quart of ftrong old beer with half a pound of bay-falt, half a ponnd of brown fugar, a pound and a half of common fait ; pour this on the ham boiling hot, rub and turn it every day for a fortnight, and bafte it with the liquor when there is opportunity. This is a very good receipt for curing a ham. Hams,