THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. 0. & E. C. JACK ; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. UPPER LIMB, SURFACE ANATOMY.—No. 4. FEONT OF FOREARM. The region of the elbow and front of the forearm presents one or two bony points which can be recognised from the surface, but in the upper part of the forearm the presence of the large muscular bellies conceals the shafts of the radius and ulna. The individual muscles cannot be readily distinguished from one another, but groups of them can be recognised, and the slight depression corresponding to the anticubital fossa separates an outer, or supinator, group from an inner, or pronator and flexor, group. In the lower part of the forearm, the muscle bellies are largely replaced by tendons, and several of these can be recognised, as well as the intervening hollows in which vessels and nerves are situated. These should be carefu ly studied, since wounds of this region are of common occurrence, and frequently involve division of some of these tendons, and this leads to serious impairment of usefulness, unless the tendons are recognised and the several ends united. The same holds true of the median and ulnar nerves. Taking the upper part first:— The internal condyle of the humerus forms a prominent landmark, from which the pronator and flexor muscles pass in different directions down the forearm, the pronator radii teres being the outermost (see Dis- section of Front of Forearm, No. 1). The supinator longus (brachio-radialis) forms the projection on the outer margin of the forearm in this region. The tendons in the lower part are, the flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus, lying near one another in the middle, and the flexor carpi ulnaris near the inner border. To the outer side of the first set is the hollow in which the radial artery lies, and the median nerve lies almost under cover of the palmaris longus. The ulnar artery and nerve lie under cover of the margin of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and in the hollow to the outer side of that tendon lie the inner tendons of the flexor muscles of the fingers. The elevation at 4 is the radial head of the flexor sublimis digitorum, on which lies the radial artery. 1. Internal condyle. Muscles. 2. Pronator radii teres. The figures indicate— 3. Supinator longus. 4. Flexor sublimis digitorum. 7. Flexor carpi ulnaris tendon. 5. Flexor carpi radialis tendon. 6. Palmaris longus tendon.