THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. PELVIS. FEMALE PELVIS-No. 3. THE ANTERIOR WALL OF THE PELVIS HAS BEEN REMOVED, AND THE PERITONEUM HAS BEEN DIVIDED AT THE ROOT OF THE BROAD LIGAMENT, AND REMOVED FROM THE BLADDER. The urethra has been dissected out of the anterior vaginal wall. 1. Bladder.—The bladder in the female is of practically the same shape as in the male, and presents the same relations to the Avail of the pelvis and to the peritoneum. Posteriorly, it rests against the front of the vagina and lower part of the uterus. It is connected to them by a small amount of areolar tissue which can be easily divided when normal, allowing the uterus to be separated from the bladder. The close apposition of this aspect of the bladder to the vagina may lead to the formation of a vesico- vaginal fistula after injury to the anterior vaginal wall. '2. Urethra.—In the female, the urethra measures about 1J inches in length, and is nearly straight in its direction from the neck of the bladder to the external orifice. It lies for a great part of its course embedded in the anterior wall of the vagina, but at the upper part it is surrounded by a large amount of highly vascular connective tissue, in which some glands are situated which open into the urethra. 3. Uterus.—This organ in this specimen lies somewhat backwards and to the left side. A mesial position is somewhat rare in a parous female, but the deviation is more commonly to the right side. The folds of peritoneum which invest it pass outwards on either side as the broad ligament, and the peri- toneum does not completely cover the anterior surface of the uterus, as a small portion is left uncovered where the peritoneum passes off it in front on to the upper surface of the bladder. On each side of this portion of the uterus is a very large plexus of veins, and external to this, the ureters pass forwards, and then converge inwards to the posterior angles of the bladder. It is in this position that the ureters are liable to be damaged or included in ligatures in vaginal hysterectomy. 1. Meatus urinarius. 2. Vaginal wall. 3. Vaginal venous plexus. 4. Levator ani muscle. 5. Pelvic fascia. 6. Obturator internus. The figures indicate— 7. Upper surface of bladder. 8. Reflection of peritoneum from uterus. 9. Broad ligament. 10. Fallopian tube, overlying ovary. 11. Body of uterus. 12. Left Fallopian tube. 13. Round ligament. 14. Ureter (left). 15. Pelvic colon. 16. Rectum (commencement of).