THE EDIN3URGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. UPPER LIMB. AXILLA—No. 2. THE GREATER PART OF THE PECTORALIS MAJOR MUSCLE HAS BEEN REMOVED, OPENING UP THE AXILLARY CAVITY FROM THE FRONT, AND THE CONTENTS OF THE AXILLA HAVE BEEN EXPOSED. The structures lying within the axilla are very numerous, and most of them are highly important. On the inner wall of the space, which is formed by the ribs and by the serratus magnus and intercostal muscles, lie the long thoracic vessels, a number of lymphatic glands, and, further back, the nerve to the serratus magnus muscle. On the outer wall are found the structures passing to and from the arm, and the position of some of these has been already described (see No. 1). The median nerve is now seen to lie very much in front of the axillary artery, while, higher up, the artery and the median nerve are crossed by a large and important vein, the outer of the two venae comites of -the brachial artery. The musculo-eutaneous nerve lies still further to the outer side. The only structures visible on the posterior wall are the subscapular vessels and long subscapular nerve. The axillary glands were somewhat enlarged in this subject, and therefore a good idea is obtained of the position and relations of some of then. They are usually found to be disposed in the following sets :— (1) One set lies along the axillary vessels, receiving tributaries from the arm ; (2) Another set lies along the margin of the subscapularis muscle, receiving the vessels from the back; (3) A third set lies along the pectoralis minor and inner wall of the axilla, receiving vessels from the mammary region and front of chest. The great bulk of these glands lies in the fourth intercostal space, and it is this group which has mainly been enlarged in this specimen. The lymphatic vessels from them pass upwards towards the apex of the axilla, and converge towards a gland which is seen to be much enlarged; (4) A central group of glands, lying in a pocket in the deep fascia, or sometimes superficial to it, may also be found. The figures indicaie— Muscles. 1. Pectoralis major. Vessels. 9. Outer of the vense comites 16. Intercosto-humeral. 2. Pectoralis minor and superior of brachial artery. 17. Median. thoracic vessels. 10. Axillary vein. ' 18. Internal cutaneous. 3. Serratus magnus. 11. Long thoracic vessels. 19. Nerve of Bell. 4. Deltoid. 12. Subscapular vessels and Lymphatics. 20. Lymphatic gland, enlarged, 5. Short head of biceps. long subscapular nerve. from mamma. 6. Coraco-brachialis. 13. Cephalic vein. 21. Lymphatic gland and vessel 7. Latissimus dorsi. 14. Axillary artery, from arm. 8. Teres major. Nerves. 15. Musculo-eutaneous. 22. Upper lymphatic gland.