THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C i !T, LONDON, W.C. E. C. JACK : and 34 HENRIETTA UPPER LIMB. PALM OF HAND.—No. 1. THE SKIN AND MOST OF THE SUPERFICIAL FASCIA HAVE BEEN REMOVED TO SHOW THE DEEP FASCIA AND THE CUTANEOUS NERVES AND VESSELS. 1. Superficial fascia. This fascia at the root of the fingers shows an arrangement similar to that found in the foot, in the form of a transverse band of fibres at the root of the fingers called the superficial transverse ligament. In the fascia over the ball of the little finger a small muscle appears, the palmaris brevis, which arises from the central part of the deep fascia, and is inserted into the skin on the ulnar side of the hand. 2. The deep fascia is in three parts, a central and two lateral. The lateral portions are weak and invest the short muscles of the ball of the thumb and little finger, while the central portion is strong, and is triangular in shape. The apex is attached to the anterior annular ligament at the wrist, and gives inser- tion to the tendon of the palmaris longus, and the base, as in the foot, is prolonged in the form of slips which pass to the digits and become continuous with the fibrous sheaths for the flexor tendons. Between these slips digital Aressels and nerves appear. 3. The cutaneous nerves are numerous and are arranged as follows from the radial to the ulnar sides :—(1) A branch of the radial nerve to the outer side and back of the thumb. (2) Branches of the median nerve, supply- ing both sides of the thumb. The outer one is seen. (3) The median nerve also sends branches to the index finger on its radial side (15) and to the two adjacent interdigital spaces (16 and 17;, and these latter branches supply the adjacent sides of the fingers between which they lie. (4) The ulnar nerve supplies the two branches, one to the inner side of the little finger, and another to the adjacent sides of the little and ring fingers (14). 4. The ulnar nerve and artery have been exposed at the point where they pass in front of the anterior annular ligament by removing a band of fascia which covers them at that point. 1. Central portion of palmar fascia. 2. Superficial transverse ligament. 3. Fibrous flexor sheath. 4. Palmaris brevis muscle. 5. Abductor pollicis muscle. 6. Outermost lumbrical muscle. The figures indicate— 7. Deep fascia of forearm. 8. Anterior annular ligament 9. Palmaris longus tendon. 10. Radial nerve. 11. External cutaneous nerve. 12. Pisiform bone. 13. Ulnar artery and nerve. 14. Digital branches of ulnar nerve. 15. 16, 17. Digital branches of median nerve and digital arteries. 18. Palmar branch of median nerve.