THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. THORAX. BACK—No. 5. THE STRUCTURES SEEN IN THE PRECEDING VIEW ARE SHOWN IN TOPOGRAPHICAL RELATION TO THE SPINE AND THE RIBS. The surface relationships seen here are numerous and important Heart The heart extends from between the fifth and sixth dorsal spines above doAvn to the ninth dorsal spine below, but the basal surface, i.e. as far down as to the aunculo-ventncular groove, extends ^ly Ke eighth dorsal spine. The apex of the heart lies in iront ot the ninth rib below the lower anrie ot the scapula, and slightly internal to it. n. • f a. Trachea The lower margin of the bifurcation of the trachea lies in front of the spine of the fifth dorsal vertebra, anJ[the robots of the lungs, which are of considerable vertical extent, he in front °f thi^%^7^rli^o^ lies at the level of the tenth dorsal spine, while thP fundus passes upwards almost to the spine of the ninth dorsal vertebra. The spfenfc nelure of the colon and the tail of the pancreas come to he under cover of the eleVVeryrconsiderable differences exist between the statements made in different text books as to the Wei of the above structures in relation to the spines of the vertebra . ^ The btfur^ion of the trachea, e.g. is often Ld to be at the level of the third ^ bifurcation is certainly at a lower level than that m this specimen. The level ot the other structmes may be ZlTb^Z fairly typical, but apparently considerable individual variations may be found. The large numbers rest upon corresponding dorsal and lumbar spines. The small numbers indicate— 15. Auriculo-ventricular sulcus. 1. Aortic arch. 2. CEsophagus. 3. Right bronchus. 4. Left bronchus. 5. Vena azygos major. 6. Left pulmonary artery 7. Pericardium, divided. 8. Right vagus nerve. 9. Constriction on oesophagus. 10. Fundus of stomach. 11. Tail of pancreas. 12. Splenic vessels. 13. Descending colon. 16. CEsophagus. 17. Ampulla phreniea. 18. Inferior vena cava. 19. Bifurcation of trachea. 20. Commencement of abdominal aorta.