THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. UPPER LIMB. AXILLA—No. 3. THE PECTORALIS MAJOR HAS BEEN REFLECTED TO SHOW THE COSTO-CORACOID MEMBRANE. Above the upper marign of the pectoralis minor, and below the subclavius muscle and clavicle, there is a small interval which is filled in by the costo-coracoid membrane. The formation and the relations of this membrane are as follows :— The subclavius muscle above is enclosed in a strong fibrous sheath, which is attached to the under surface clavicle in front of the muscle and behind it. The inner part of this membrane is extremely strong, and passes downwards to be attached to the first rib (12). The outer part is less strong, and below the subclavius muscle it is represented merely by a thin membrane which blends with the fascia of the pectoralis minor, and also passes deeply to join the axillary sheath. The stronger portion passes from the first rib outwards to the coracoid process in a curved manner, and is called the costo-coracoid ligament. Lying on the costo-coracoid membrane is a lymphatic gland, which is liable to infection from cancer of the breast. The membrane is pierced by the external anterior thoracic nerve as it passes to the pectoralis major, by the thoracic axis vessels, and by the cephalic vein. The thoracic axis vein is large, the artery has only a short course, and divides into branches which go to the pectoralis muscles, to the deltoid (acromial and humeral branches), and to the subclavius muscle (clavicular branch). The lymphatic gland in this specimen is enlarged. Usually it is very small, but it can gener- ally be detected by careful dissection. The figuret Muscles. 1. Deltoid (divided). Nerves an< 2. Pectoralis major. 3- Long tendon of biceps. 4. Short head of biceps. 5. Coraco-brachialis. 6. Pectoralis minor. 7. Subclavius. EDINBURGH : T. C, & E. C. JACK; and : indicate— I Vessels. 8. Acromio-thoracic vein. 9. Acromio-thoracic artery. 10. External anterior thoracic nerve. 11. Gland on costo-coracoid membrane. 12. Costo-coracoid membrane, inner part. 13. Internal anterior thoracic nerve. 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C.