THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. THORAX. BACK.—No 3. THE STRUCTURES SHOWN IN THE FORMER VIEW ARE NOW SEEN IN TOPOGRAPHICAL RELATION TO THE SPINE AND THE RIBS. Aorta. The arch of the aorta reached the left side of the spine at a point which was vertically in front of the spine of the third dorsal vertebra. The obliquity of this portion of the view at first sight appears to make the level somewhat lower than this, but careful examination reveals that this is the proper level. Diaphragm. The right cupola ascends as high as to lie between the eighth and ninth dorsal spines, while the left cupola is between the ninth and tenth. The scapulae are somewhat oblique, but the lower angle of each is practically over the seventh rib. Spleen. The relation of the spleen to the surface is very clearly brought out. The lower margin (posterior border) lies along the upper border of the twelfth rib, and extends from the side of the vertebral column as far as to the posterior axillary line. The outline of the organ may be indicated by drawing a line to represent the lower bolder along the rib for that distance, and joining the ends by an arch which extends as far up as to the tenth rib. Liver. The upper border of the liver passes up into the ninth intercostal space, and the liver is covered by the lower three ribs behind, and passes down about an inch below the twelfth rib. This view should be focussed with great care, so as to bring out clearly the structures which lie at different depths from the surface. The large numbers rest upon the spines of corresponding dorsal and lumbar vertebrae. The small numbers indicate— 1. Inferior vena cava. 2. Aortic arch. 3. (Esophagus. 4. Vena azygos major 5. Hoot of right lung (centre of). Right bronchus. Right pulmonary artery. ,, ,, veins, joining left auricle. Left ventricle. Liver. 11. Spleen 12. Left kidney. 13. Aorta, and margin of pleura. 14. Innominate artery. 9. Left ventricle. 15. Internal mammary artery. 10. Liver. 16. Superior vena cava. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK : and 34 HENRIETTA STREET. LONDON. W.C. * % ov X < cc o h i li