THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. UPPER LIMB. FRONT OF FOREARM—No. 1. THE SUPERFICIAL STRUCTURES HAVE BEEN REMOVED THE VIEW OF SURFACE TO SHOW THE MUSCLES. ANATOMY NO. 4. COMPARE WITH THIS The superficial muscles of the front of the forearm are arranged as follows:—The brachio-radialis muscle lies along the outer border of the forearm. To its inner side lies a group of superficial muscles belonging to the pronator and flexor group, and comprising the pronator radii teres (2), flexor carpi radialis (3), palmaris longus (4), and flexor carpi ulnaris (6); while the flexor sublimis digitorum (5) lies under cover of them. These muscles have a common origin from the front of the internal condyle, from the investing fascia, and from the intermuscular septa, and the pronator muscle, the flexor carpi ulnaris and the flexor sublimis digitorum have each one or more accessory heads of origin, all of which lie at a deeper level. Lower down in the forearm the fleshy bellies of these muscles are largely replaced by tendons, and the principal vessels and nerves come to lie nearer the surface between the tendons. Thus, at the wrist, the radial artery, with its vense comites, lies between the brachio-radialis and the flexor carpi radialis, and the ulnar vessels and nerve lie between the flexor carpi ulnaris and the flexor sublimis digitorum tendons, while the median nerve lies between the flexor carpi radialis and the palmaris longus. The radial nerve does not accompany the corresponding artery to the wrist-joint, but in the lower third of the forearm it leaves it, and passes under the brachio-radialis to the back of the wrist. The figures indicate- Muscles. 1. Brachio-radialis. 2. Pronator radii teres. 3. Flexor carpi radialis. 4. Palmaris longus. 5. Flexor sublimis digitorum. 6. ,, carpi ulnaris. 7. Ext. ossis metacarpi pollicis and postannular ligament. Other structures. 8. Median nerve. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. 9. Pisiform bone. 10. Anterior annular ligament, and ulnar artery passing over it. 11. Brachial artery and venae comites. 12. Anastomotica magna artery. 13. Musculo-cutaneous nerve (a recurrent branch). 14. Radial nerve. 15. Radial vi