THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH t T. C, t E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. UPPER LIMB. BACK OF FOREARM AND WRIST JOINT.—No. 1. TWO SPECIMENS. A. This dissection shows the arrangement of the superficial muscles of the back of the forearm. The view should be compared with that of Surface Anatomy, No. 5, and the groups of muscles identified, viz., an outer set consisting of the brachio-radialis and the two radial extensors, which is separated, lower down, by the extensor ossis metacarpi and extensor primi internodii pollicis from an inner set, which consists of the extensor communis digitorum, extensor proprius minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris. The extensor proprius indicis and extensor secundi internodii pollicis tendons are shown still lower down. B. Wrist-Joint. A section has been made through the wrist, to show the principal synovial cavities, and the triangular fibro-cartilage of the wrist-joint. The synovial sacs are as follows :— 1. There is a cavity for the radio-carpal and one also for the inferior radio-ulnar joints. 2. There is a cavity between the proximal and distal row of carpal bones, which is continuous with the cavity of the carpo-metacarpal articulation. The joints in this region have the following arrangement:— There are three lines of articulation more or less transverse in character. The first between thv. "adius and the triangular fibro-cartilage on the one hand and the proximal row of the carpus on the other. The cavity of this joint is shut off from the others. The second line of articulation extends in an S-shaped curve across the wrist, between the proximal and distal rows of carpal bones. The third line of articulations between the distal row of the carpus and the bases of the metacarpals is often divided into two parts by a ligament, as here, passing from the unciform to the base of the third meta- cai-pal. When that is so, there is a separate inner synovial cavity, and an outer one which communicates with the second line of articulations. The intermetacarpal joints are continuous with the adjacent part of this line of articulation. 3. The thumb has a separate joint for itself, at the articulation between the trapezium and first metacarpal bone. The figures indicate:— In A. 9. Anconeus. 6. Trapezium. Muscles. 1. Brachio-radialis. 10. Triceps. 7 Trapezoid. 2. Extensor carpi radialis longior. 11. Extensor secundi internodii 8. Os magnum. 3. Extensor carpi radialis brevior. pollicis. 9. Unciform. 4. Extensor ossis metacarpi pol- Ligament. 12. Posterior annular ligament. 10. First metacarpal. licis. In B. 11. Second metacarpal. 5. Extensor primi internodii pol- Bones. 1. Radius. 12. Third metacarpal. licis. 2. Ulna. 13. Fourth metacarpal. 6. Extensor communis digitorum. 3. Scaphoid. 14. Fifth metacarpal. 7. Extensor propriustrinimi digiti. 4. Semilunar. Ligament. 15. Triangular ligament. 8. Extensor carpi ulnaris. 5. Cuneiform.