THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK: and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. UPPER LIMB. BACK—No. 1. THE SKIN AND LAYERS OF FASCIA HAVE BEEN REMOVED, TO SHOW THE CUTANEOUS NERVES AND THE FIRST LAYER OF MUSCLES. The cutaneous nerves found in this region are the following:— (1) The great occipital nerve, from the posterior primary division of the second cervical nerve, pierces the trapezius, and passes upwards and outwards to supply the posterior part of the scalp. Below this nerve is a small branch from the third cervical nerve, which passes upwards, and then one small twig also from the fourth and fifth, but these are variable. (2) Lower down, branches from the upper six dorsal nerves emerge near the middle line. All the above nerves come from the internal branches of the posterior primary divisions. (3) Below these, twigs from the external branches of the posterior primary divisions become superficial, but at some distance from the middle line. (4) The small occipital nerve runs upwards behind the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle to the posterior part of the scalp, where it anastomoses with the great occipital. It is derived from the anterior primary divisions of the second and third cervical nerves, and is therefore a branch of the cervical plexus. The trapezius muscle arises from the external occipital protuberance and from the inner half of the superior curved line of the occipital bone, from the ligamentum nucha} and spine of the seventh cervical vertebra, and from the spines and supraspinous ligaments of all the dorsal vertebrae. There is a quadrilateral aponeurotic area formed in the middle by a membranous portion of the muscle on each side. Triangle of auscultation.—Between the lower border of the trapezius and the vertebral border of the scapula is an area, limited below by the upper border of the latissimus dorsi, in which the rhomboideus major is seen. The remaining part of this area (14) is known as the triangle of auscultation, since in this region the chest wall i.s not covered by any thick mass of muscle, and therefore the lung sounds can be well heard here. The figures indicate:— Bony points. 1. External occipital protuberance. 8. Rhomboideus major. 2. Vertebra prominens. 9. Latissimus dorsi. 3. Spine of scapula. Nerves. 10. Qreat occipital. 4. Lower angle of scapula. 11. Small occipital. Muscles. 5. Trapezius—Upper oblique fibres. 12. Internal cutaneous branchesfromdorsal nerves. G. „ Central tendon. 13. Externalcutaneousbranchesfromdorsalnerves. 7. ,, Lower oblique fibres. Area. 14. Triangle of auscultation.