THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. PELVIS. MALE PERINEUM—No. 3. THE TRIANGULAR LIGAMENT AND STRUCTURES PIERCING IT. The bulb and crura have been removed, and the urethra divided where it pierces the triangular ligament. The triangular ligament consists of two layers, a superficial and a deep, of which the former, or true triangular ligament, is seen here. It is a strong fibrous sheet which extends across the arch of the pubis from side to side, but does not reach up quite to the symphisis, and extends for some distance backwards towards the anterior portion of the ischial tuberosities. The structures which form the root of the penis rest upon its superficial surface, and are attached to it. The crura are attached to the lateral portion, and the bulb is bound down in the centre by fascia. The urethra passes through an aperture in the centre of the ligament, and some erectile tissue is continued from the bulb through the same opening, and at this point the artery to the bulb, which is under cover of the ligament, gains access to the bulb. In front, the ligament is perforated by the internal pudic artery, and, in front of it, by the dorsal nerve of the penis on either side, while the dorsal vein passes through a small aperture between the triangular and the sub-pubic ligaments. The superficial perineal nerves and vessels pierce the triangular ligament near its base, and the ducts of Cowper's glands pass through it in the wall of the urethra. This region is the common site for rupture of the urethra, and it will be seen that extravasated urine is prevented from passing up into the pelvis by the triangular ligament. The fluid cannot pass backwards or outwards, as the fascia of Collis is attached to the base of the ligament and to the margins of the pubic arch, and it must therefore pass forwards into the scrotum. The figures indicate— 6. Internal pudic artery perforating the ligament, and giving off an artery to the corpus cavernosum, and becoming dorsal artery of the penis. 7. Dorsal nerve of penis. 8. Branch of perineal nerve to muscles, running inwards behind the base of the triangular ligament. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. 1. External sphincter ani. 2. Triangular ligament. 3. Attachment of bulb. 4. Urethra. 5. Dorsal vein of the penis.