THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. LUMBAR REGION.-No. 5. ANTERIOR RELATIONS OF THE KIDNEYS. The spleen and right kidney and suprarenal capsule have been removed in order to show the structures which lie in front of them, and a portion of the inferior vena cava has been cut away. Left kidney. The tail of the pancreas with the splenic vessels has now been exposed, crossing in front of the upper part of this kidney. The splenic vessels are extremely tortuous, and are seen to lie behind the under surface of the stomach, from which they are separated by the lesser sac of the peritoneal cavity. The stvi u e: - • ma; be said 1 » constitute a bed for the spleen, as viewed from behind, and consist of the fundus of the stomach, t) •■.>>• • ; i re of the colon, and the pancreas. Right kidney. Among the important relations of this organ, the duodenum and part of the pancreas, with the inferior vena cava and the termination of the common bile duct, must always be borne in mind, and the position and relations of these structures are well revealed in this dissection. The second and third parts of the duodenum form a loop which encloses the head of the pancreas, and the common bile duct pierces the posterior wall of the second part in its inner part. The duct of the pancreas is not fully shown, as it lies embedded in the substance of the pancreas. A network of vessels, mainly veins, lay upon this surface of the duodenum and pancreas, and must be carefully noted by the surgeon in his attempts to gain access to the termination of the common bile duct near its termination by the usual route from the abdomen, viz. by turning the second part of the duodenum inwards towards the middle line of the body, after dividing the peritoneum along the outer margin of the duodenum. The figures indicate:— 1. Liver. 2. Left kidney. 3. Duodenum. 4. Head of pancreas. 5. Ascending colon. 6. Common bile duct. 7. Inferior vena cava. 1 8. Stomach. 9. Tail of pancreas. 10. Splenic artery. 11. Splenic flexure of colon. 12. Small intestine. 13. Aorta. 14. Left ovarian vein. 15. Left ureter. 16. Body of pancreas.