THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH : T. C. & E. C. JACK : and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. PELVIS. MALE PERINEUM. —No. 1. THE SKIN AND FASCIA HAVE BEEN REMOVED FROM THE ANTERIOR HALF OF THE PERINEUM, AND THE ISCHIO- RECTAL FOSSA HAS BEEN CLEANED OUT. The perineal space may be divided conveniently into two portions by a line drawn transversely across it between the anterior parts of the ischial tuberosities. The anterior portion of the space, called the urogenital triangle, is shown in this view, while the posterior part contains the ischio-rectal fossae and the anus. The urogenital triangle is bounded laterally by the rami of the pubis and ischium, and contains the root of the penis and the muscles, nerves and blood-vessels associated with it. A layer of strong fibrous tissue, which is a deep portion of the superficial fascia of this region called the fascia of Colles, forms a roof for the space, under cover of the skin, and of some fatty tissue. This layer is attached to the margin of the pubic arch on each side (12) and to the base of the triangular ligament (see No. 3) behind, while in iront it is continuous with one of the layers, the tunica dartos, of the scrotum. Under cover of it lie the bulb and crura of the penis, with their muscles, resting on the triangular ligament. The space thus covered in is bounded deeply by the triangular ligament, and into it urine may be ex- travasated in cases of rupture of the spongy portion of the urethra. In such cases, the spread of the fluid is limited on all sides except in front, where it may pass into the tissues of the scrotum, under the tunica dartos, to the penis and anterior abdominal wall, under the deep layer of the superficial fascia. The muscles are (1) the ejaculator urinae, which arises from the central point of the perineum, from the triangular ligament, and from a mesial raphe. It invests the bulb, the corpus spongiosum and part of the penis, (2) the erector penis on each side, arises from the inner aspect of the ischial tuberosity, invests the crus, and is inserted into its anterior part. (3) The transversus perinei, a small transverse muscle (see No. 2). The nerves are the anterior and posterior superficial perineal nerves, branches of the perineal nerve. They appear in the posterior part of the triangle, run forwards and supply the scrotum, joining with the long pudendal branch of the small sciatic nerve. The nerves are accompanied by superficial perineal vessels, from the internal pudic. 1. Tuber ischii. 5. 2. Sphincter ani externus. 6. 3. Superficial perineal nerves. 7. 4. Superficial perineal artery. 8. The figures indicate— Inferior hemorrhoidal vessels and nerve. Ejaculator urina? covering the bulb. Crus penis, covered by erector penis. Transversus perinei muscle. 9. Bulb. 10. Urethra, divided in corpus spongiosum. 11. Corpora cavernosa. 12. Fascia of Colles.