THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK ; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. ABDOMEN. FEMALE PELVIS—No. 5. THE UTERINE ARTERY HAS BEEN TRACED IN ITS COURSE ALONG THE BASE OF THE BROAD LIGA- MENT, AND, ON THE LEFT SIDE, SEVERAL STRUCTURES WHICH ARE FOUND IN THE BROAD LIGAMENT HAVE BEEN DISSECTED OUT. The broad ligament is a double fold of peritoneum which passes from the uterus to the side wall of the pelvis, and which contains the Fallopian tube, the ovary, and vessels, nerves, ligaments, and some vestigial structures. 1. The Fallopian tube begins at the ovary in a wide funnel-shaped portion, with fimbriated edges, which are in close relation to the ovary. From this region the tube runs in a somewhat tortuous manner along the upper margin of the broad ligament, and enters the upper lateral angle of the uterus. 2. The ovary lies in a recess in the side wall of the pelvis, and it is somewhat oval in shape, the long axis being nearly vertical. Those organs are rarely symmetrical in position, and, in this specimen, the right ovary was displaced downwards through the displacement of the uterus to the left side. The ovary lies in the posterior fold of the broad ligament, and consequently is not seen from the front until the peritoneum forming that ligament has been removed (as on the left side). 3. The round ligament of the uterus is a rounded band of muscular and connective tissue which passes from the margin of the uterus, below the entrance of the Fallopian tube, outwards to the side wall of the pelvis, and in the latter part of its course it passes into the inguinal canal and resembles the vas deferens in its relations. The vessels contained in the broad ligament include the uterine and ovarian arteries and veins. The veins form a large plexus round the margin of the uterus from which blood passes by the uterine vein to the internal iliac vein, and also a plexus near the ovary, from which two ovarian veins pass, with the ovarian artery, and end in the same way as the spermatic veins in the male, i.e. in the inferior vena cava on the right side, and in the left renal vein on the left. The vestigial structures comprise the paroophoron and the epoophoron which represent the paradidymis and epididymis of the male. This view also illustrates the external characters of the uterus and its principal parts, viz., the fundus or upper rounded end, the body which diminishes in size as it passes down, and which is separated by a constriction, the isthmus, from the cervix, which is rounded and cylindrical in character, and passes into the upper part of the vagina. The figures indicate— 1. Cervix uteri. 4. Ureter. 7. Ovarian veins. 10. Ovary. 2. Fundus uteri. 5. Uterine vein. 8. Fallopian tube. 11. Rectum. 3. Uterine artery. 6. Round ligament. 9. Ovarian venous plexus. 12. Venous plexus round cervix. 13. Vaginal branch of uterine artery.