THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. THORAX. BACK—No. 1. In the dissections illustrated in this and the following four views, the subject after being hardened by formalin injections, was fixed by being embedded in plaster of Paris, so as to secure complete immobility during and after the removal of the vertebral column and the ribs. The subject was a female, who showed no marked evidence of disease of the heart or lungs. The curvature of the dorsal portion of the spine was perhaps somewhat greater than is found in a younger subject. The relations of the deeper parts to the surface are represented as they were found in this subject, but it should be borne in mind that after death, the viscera tend to be displaced downwards in relation to the spine, and this probably accounts for the somewhat lower position than usual which they occupy here. The lower margin of each of the lungs is seen to descend as far as to the level of the eleventh dorsal spine, and is the same on both sides of the body. The lower limit of the pleura, as it approaches the spine on the right side of the body, passes below the level of the twelfth rib and descends as far as to the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra. On the left side, it passes along under cover of the twelfth rib, and only descends below this rib for a short distance near the spine, where it is found in the usual position, i.e. in the interval between the twelfth rib and the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra. The oblique fissure of the lung begins, on the left side, on a level with the spine of the second dorsal vertebra, but as often happens, on the right side it is as low as the spine of the fourth dorsal vertebra. From its origin, the fissure passes obliquely downwards and outwards, under cover of the infraspinous region of the scapula. Large numbers indicate corresponding lumbar dorsal spines. L indicates the quadratus iu mho rum muscle. The small numbers indicate— 1. Left kidney. 2. Diaphragm. 3. Left lung, inferior margin 4. Descending colon. 5. Liver. 6. Right kidney. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK ; and .34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. 7. Ascending colon. 8. Diaphragm. 9. Lung. 10. Great fissure of right lung. 11. Great fissure of left lung.