THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. LONDON, W.C. EDINBURGH : T. C. & E. U. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, UPPER LIMB. FRONT OF FOREARM AND PALM—No. 2. THE DISSECTION HAS BEEN CONTINUED SO AS TO EXPOSE THE DEEPER LYING STRUCTURES IN THE PALM, ESPECIALLY THE DEEP PALMAR ARCH, AND THE MUSCLES OF THE DIFFERENT LAYERS IN THE FOREARM HAVE BEEN DIVIDED AT DIFFERENT LEVELS. The deep palmar arch is formed by the terminal part of the radial artery which enters the palm through the upper part of the first interosseous space between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and appears between the adjacent margins of the adductor obliquus and adductor transversus pollicis. It crosses the bases of the metacarpal bones and the interossei, and anastomoses with the deep branch of the ulnar artery. It is accompanied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, and it gives off some branches as follows :—(1) recurrent, which run up to the front of the carpus ; (2) superior perforating, which pass backwards in the upper part of the three interosseous spaces to the dorsum of the hand ; and (3) three palmar interosseous branches, of which two are seen, which pass forwards in front of the interosseous spaces and join the digital branches of the superficial palmar arch. The deep branch of the ulnar nerve supplies all the muscles of the palm which lie to the inner side of the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, except the two outer lumbricals, which receive their nerve supply from the median nerve. The pronator quadratus is seen to be a flat, square-shaped muscle, which arises from the anterior surface of the ulna in its lower fourth, and is inserted into the anterior and inner surface of the lower end of the radius. The radial artery is seen to pass from the front of the forearm by winding round the outer side of the wrist joint, under cover of the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and extensor primi internodii pollicis. In the forearm, the median nerve is seen to lie under cover of the flexor sublimis digitorum, on the surface of the flexor longus pollicis, while the ulnar nerve and artery, at the same level, lie on the flexor profundus digitorum, under cover of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and to the inner side of the flexor sublimis digitorum. The figures indicate- In Pisiform bone. 2. Scaphoid. 3. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. 4. Flexor longus pollicis. 5. Pronator quadratus. 6. Transverse metacarpal ligament. 7. Tendon of a lumbrical muscle. 8. Flexor carpi radialis. 9. Flexor sublimis digitorum. 10. Palmaris longus. 11. Flexor carpi ulnaris. 12. Flexor profundus digitorum. 13. Radial artery. 14. Ulnar artery and nerve. 15. Deep palmar arch and branch of ulnar nerve. 16. Adductor transversus pollicis. 17. Adductor obliquus pollicis. 18. Opponens pollicis. 19. Opponens minimi digiti. 20. Interosseous muscles. 21. Anterior ligament of wrist. 22. Median nerve and artery. 23. Radial nerve. 24. Brachio-radialis muscle.