THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. <te E. C. JACK: and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. UPPER LIMB. BACK OF ARM—No. 1. A PORTION OF THE OUTER HEAD OF THE TRICEPS HAS BEEN REMOVED, TO SHOW THE MUSCULO- SPIRAL GROOVE AND ITS CONTENTS. Triceps.—The outer head of this muscle arises from the posterior surface of the shaft of the humerus above the musculo-spiral groove, and from a fibrous arch which covers over the groove, while the inner head of the muscle arises from the back of the humerus below that groove, and from the intermuscular septa on either side. Musculo-spiral groove.—This groove winds round the back of the humerus in a spiral manner from the inner to the outer side, and conveys the musculo-spiral nerve and the superior profunda vessels. The musculo-spiral nerve, arising in the axilla from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, lies in the musculo-spiral groove, covered by the long head of the triceps, and between the inner and outer heads of that muscle, and after piercing the external intermuscular septum, gains the interval between the brachialis anticus and brachio-radialis muscles. (See Antecubital Fossa.—No 3.) In its course it gives off the following branches :— (1) On the inner side of the arm, an internal cutaneous branch, a branch to the long head of the triceps, and a branch to the inner head of that muscle, the latter being called the ulnar collateral nerve. (2) In the musculo-spiral groove, branches to all the heads of the triceps, and also a branch which is noticeable, as it runs down in the inner head muscle and ends in the anconeus muscle. While in the groove, it also gives off two external cutaneous branches, an upper and a lower, which supply regions of skin on the back and outer sides of the arm and forearm. (3) In the last part of its course it gives muscular branches to the bracliialis anticus, brachio-radialis, extensor carpi radialis longior and sometimes also to the extensor carpi radialis brevior muscles, and terminates in the radial and posterior interosseous nerves. The superior profunda artery accompanies the nerve in the region seen here, and divides into two branches which run to the elbow behind and in front of the external intermuscular septum respectively, to take part in the anastomosis about the elbow-joint. The figures indicate:— 1. Deltoid. 5. Brachialis anticus. 9. Lower external cutaneous branch. . 2. Outer head of triceps. 6. Musculo-spiral nerve. 10. Nerve to inner head of triceps. 3. Long head of triceps. 7. Nerve to brachialis anticus. 11. Branch of superior profunda 4. Inner head of triceps. 8. Cutaneous branch of musculo-spiral. vessels.