THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH : T. C. & E. C. JACK ; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. LUMBAR REGION.-No. 1. THE SKIN AND LAYERS OF FASCIA HAVE BEEN REMOVED, LEAVING THE CUTANEOUS NERVES, TO SHOW THE MUSCLES. The cutaneous nerves of the lower part of the back are derived from the posterior primary divisions of spinal nerves. From the lower six dorsal nerves branches are given to the skin through the external branches of these nerves, and branches, lower down, are given off by the upper three lumbar, and from two or three sacral nerves. The lumbar nerves become cutaneous by piercing the lumbar aponeurosis near the outer margin of the erector spina?, while the sacral twigs pierce the gluteus maximus. The latissimus dorsi arises from the spines and supra-spinous ligaments of the lower six dorsal vertebrae, from the posterior lamella of the lumbar aponeurosis, by which it is attached to the lumbar spines, to the sacrum and iliac crest, and it also gains a separate origin from the crest of the ilium in front of the attachment of the lumbar aponeurosis. It may also gain a few fibres from the dorsal surface of the lower angle of the scapula. The triangle of Petit is a small triangular intermuscular interval, above the crest of the ilium between the latissimus dorsi aud external oblique muscles. It is a weak point in the abdominal wall, and may be the site of a lumbar hernia. The bony landmarks which attract attention are—(1) the crest of the ilium, (2) the posterior superior iliac spines, which are on a level with the second sacral spine, (3) the sacral cornua, between which is a depression corresponding to the inferior opening of the sacral canal. The prominence of the erector spinas muscle is of importance, and especially the furrow at its outer margin, where the three layers of the lumbar aponeurosis unite with one another. This furroAv is a useful landmark in operations on the kidneys from the back. The figures indicate— 1. Trapezius. 6. Lumbar aponeurosis. 11. Sacral cornua. 2. Latissimus dorsi. 7. Triangle of Petit. 12. Internal cutaneous branch. 3. Triangle of auscultation. 8. Gluteus medius. 13. External cutaneous branch. 4. Rhomboideus major. 9. Gluteus maximus. 14. Lumbar cutaneous branch. 5. External oblique of abdomen. 10. Posterior superior iliac spine.