THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH : T. C. & E. C. JACK ; and U HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.O. UPPER LIMB. ANTECUBITAL FOSSA—No. 3. THE SPACE HAS BEEN OPENED UP BY DIVIDING THE BICIPITAL FASCIA AND DRAWING THE MUSCLES ASIDE, AND THE CONTENTS ARE EXPOSED. Within the antecubital fossa, the brachial artery divides into its two terminal branches, the musculo-spiral nerve divides into the radial and posterior interosseous nerves, the median nerve gives off several muscular branches, and lying deeply on each side is found a recurrent articular artery, from the radial artery on the outer side and from the ulnar on the inner. The musculo-spiral nerve divides opposite the bend of the elbow, where it lies between the brachialis anticus and brachio-radialis muscles, after giving off muscular branches to the brachio-radialis and extensor carpi radialis longior. The posterior interosseous branch disappears into the substance of the supinator brevis muscle, while the radial nerve runs down, and comes to lie beside the radial artery. The median nerve passes out of the antecubital fossa by passing between the two heads of the pronator radii teres muscle. Thus both the posterior interosseous and median nerves arc liable to injurious compression by contraction of the muscles through Avhich they pass. The median nerve contains sensory fibres, and thus pain may be produced as well as paresis of muscles, but the posterior interosseus is distributed to muscles, and therefore there are no sensory phenomena produced. The recurrent articular arteries take part in the anastomosis about the elbow, anastomising with branches of the brachial artery seen in another view. The high division of the brachial artery in this specimen produces some conditions which are only occasionally present, but the condition illustrated occurs with considerable frequency. The floor of the fossa is now seen to be formed by the brachialis anticus and supinator brevis muscles. The figures indicate— Muscles. 1. Pronator radii teres. Nerves. 6. Musculocutaneous. 2. Brachialis anticus. 7. Median. 3. Brachio-radialis. 8. Musculo-spiral. 4. Tendon of biceps. Vessels. 9. Badial recurrent artery. 5. Semilunar fascia of biceps.