22101720526Med K10981Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b28107500CHOICE COOKERY. BY H. M. YOUNG. AUTHORESS OF Domestic Cookery, with special reference to Cooking by Gas.’’ Diplomee as Demonstrator of Cookery, Medalist, dec., dec. Published by H. M. YOUNG, 27, Arpley Street, Warrington JOHN HEYWOOD, Deansgate and Ridgefield, Manchester 1, Paternoster Buildings, LONDON. [ENTERED AT STATIONERS* HALLV O WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOrnec Call No. airPREFACE. The rapid sale of my book, “ Domestic Cookery,” and the enquiry, as well as the knowledge that a want exists, for a treatise dealing with choice dishes, has encouraged me to publish this work under the title of “ Choice Cookery.” The book is intended as a practical guide to those ladies desirous of becoming acquainted with the art of cooking in its choicest and most economical form, and as most of the recipes have been given at my public demonstrations, they will be found quite reliable. Although it contains many references to cooking by the aid of gas, yet the use of the Gas Range is not essential to a perfect preparation of the dishes given; but my experience convinces me that it is the most economical, convenient, and preferable method of cooking. See “ Domestic Cookery ” with special reference to cooking by gas. H. M. YOUNG, November 12th, 1888.2CHOICE COOKERY. SOUPS. No. 1. ASPARAGUS SOUP. 40 heads of asparagus 1 small onion 1 oz. flour £ pint of cream 1 oz. butter 1 quart good white stock Bunch of sweet herbs A bay leaf A few sprigs parsley Yolks of 2 eggs 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns crushed Take the heads off asparagus, and put on one side. Cut up the tops in slices, also the onion, put these into a pan with the butter and herbs and fry gently 10 minutes, add the flour, then the stock, and simmer slowly 1 hour. Rub through a fine hair sieve, add cream, yolks, and salt, re-heat, but take care not to boil it. Just before serving throw in the asparagus tops, which should be first cooked in a little boiling stock containing a little salt and soda. B2 No. 2. GIBLET SOUP. 2 sets of giblets 1 small head of celery Blade of mace Bunch sweet herbs £ small Savoy cabbage Juice of £ lemon 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns 2 oz. flour 1 large onion 1 large carrot 1 small turnip A few sprigs or parsley Bay leaf 2 quarts stock or water 2 teaspoonfuls salt 2 oz. butter Clean and trim the giblets thoroughly, drop them into boiling water for a minute, lift them out into cold water to blanch them ; divide into pieces about one inch. Put the butter into a saucepan with all the vegetables, sliced, the herbs, &c.; fry five minutes; then add flour and stock, and giblets; bring to the boil and skim; simmer slowly 2 hours, or until the giblets are tender, pour through a hair sieve, lift out the giblets and rub through as much of the vegetables as possible, put back into the saucepan with the giblets and salt, re-heat, and serve. A glass of sherry may be added if liked. Skin, clean, and divide the hare into small joints. Put the butter into a pan, and when quite hot fry in it the hare until a nice brown ; remove and fry the vege- No. 3. HARE SOUP 1 small hare 1 small head celery 1 oz. arrowroot A blade of mace 3 or 4 cloves 1 teaspoonful peppercorns 2£ quarts of stock or water 2 onions, 1 large carrot 4 oz. butter, a few sprigs parsley Bunch sweet herbs % pint port wine 2| teaspoonfuls salt3 tables (sliced) and herbs brown, then add stock, pepper- corns, and hare; simmer gently, until the hare is tender, 1J to 2 hours, skimming it thoroughly; then remove the hare and take off the best pieces, put back the remainder and the bones, and simmer 1J hours longer; pour through a fine sieve, rubbing through as much of the pulp as possible ; add salt, port wine, forcemeat balls, and pieces of hare ; thicken with arrowroot; re- heat, and serve. No. 4. FORCEMEAT BALLS. 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs 1 tablespoonful finely minced cooked ham 1 tablespoonful minced suet £ teaspoonful grated lemon rind 1 egg \ tablespoonful sweet herbs A dust of nutmeg Cayenne, salt, pepper Mix all together with part of the egg beaten, form into small balls, paint over with remainder of egg, and fry in fat or butter a dark brown. No. 5. JULIENNE SOUP. 1 good sized carrot 1 small head celery £ small lettuce 3 pints of good brown stock Whites of four eggs 1 small turnip 1 small leek 1 small onion A few leaves of tarragon and chervil ^ lb. lean beef Put the stock into a pan with the eggs beaten and the meat shredded fine, allow it to slowly come to the boil, draw on one side and allow it to stand ten minutes4 to clear; pass through a clean towel or jelly bag. Cut up the vegetables into fine strips one inch long, put the carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, and celery into a little boiling stock, boil until tender, drain and throw into soup, add lettuce, tarragon, and chervil, boil fifteen minutes, and serve. No. 6. MULLIGATAWNY SOUP. 1 chicken i head celery Blade of mace Bunch sweet herbs 3 oz. butter oz. flour 1 good sized onion 1 carrot 4 cloves 1 bay leaf A few sprigs of parsley 3 pints stock or water 1 small dessertspoonful curry powder Slice the vegetables and lay them in a saucepan with half the butter and herbs, fry for ten minutes, then add chicken and stock, bring to the boil and skim well; simmer one hour, then remove chicken, take meat off the bones, put bones back in saucepan, and simmer one hour longer; pass through a fine hair sieve. Melt the remaining half of the butter in another pan, add curry powder, fry two or three minutes, then add flour, and stir until smooth; then add the soup and the best of the chicken divided into small pieces, boil ten minutes, add seasoning, and serve with boiled Patna rice. (Page 120.)5 No. 7. OYSTER SOUP. 2 dozen deep sea oysters or 3 dozen if small 2 small whiting Bones and skins of one or two soles 1| pint water or light stock £ pint cream 2 stalks celery 1 blade of mace 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce A few drops lemon juice Yolks of 2 eggs 1 onion Bunch herbs and parsley 1 teaspoonful white pepper- corns, crushed 1 oz. flour 1| oz. butter Beard the oysters and remove the tendons, put the soft fatty part on one side. Put the beards, tendons, and liquid from the oysters into a saucepan with the whiting and vegetables cut up, also other fish trim- mings, mace, peppercorns, anchovy sauce, and water; simmer this slowly one hour; pour through a fine hair sieve, rubbing through as much of the pulp of the whiting as possible. Put the butter into a saucepan and melt, then add flour, and when quite smooth add soup, boil five minutes, add salt, cream, and yolks of eggs beaten together; keep hot, but take care the soup does not boil, or it will curdle. Drop the oysters in for half a minute just to heat them, and serve. If the oysters are large they may be divided.6 No. 8. SOUP A LA PARMESAN. 1 quart good white stock 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns \ pint of cream Yolks of 2 eggs 1 oz. butter 1 blade of mace 1 teaspoonful salt 1 onion 1 carrot 1 stick celery 2 tablespoonfuls of Parmesan cheese Bunch of sweet herbs 1 oz. flour A bunch parsley Savoury custards Cut all the vegetables in slices and fry in the butter with herbs, &c., five minutes, add the flour, then the stock; boil one hour, rub through a fine sieve, mix the yolks, cream and grated Parmesan together, add to soup, and re-heat, but take care it does not boil. Meanwhile prepare savoury custard. 2 eggs, J pint stock, 1 table- spoonful Parmesan cheese, pepper, and salt. Boil the cheese in the stock, beat up the eggs with the seasoning, strain the stock to the eggs, pour into some small buttered dariole moulds, stand in a pan of hot water, allowing the water to come -within half-an-inch of the top of the moulds ; when set turn out and allow to cool, divide into dice, put in tureen, and pour over soup. 1 good teaspoonful salt Have the stock boiling, throw into it j pint of peas, the spinach washed and picked, pepperoorns and No. 9. GREEN PEA SOUP. 1 pint of green peas A good handful of spinach 1 teaspoonful of peppercorns, 1 quart of good white stock £ pint cream Yolks of 2 eggs A sprig of mint crushed7 salt; boil twenty minutes, or until tender, rub through a fine wire sieve, boil up, and add cream and yolks; keep hot, and just before serving throw in the remainder of the peas, which must be boiled soft in a little stock containing a little salt. No. 10 RICE SOUP A LA CARDINAL. | lb. Carolina rice 1 stalk celery £ pint of cream 1£ pints good white stock £ teaspoonful white peppercorns, crushed teaspoonful salt 1 small onion Wash the rice and boil it until tender in the stock, with the onion, celery, and peppercorns. Then rub the pulp through a fine hair sieve, add salt, cream, and custard as below, stamped out in fancy patterns; re-heat and serve. No. 11. SAVOURY CUSTARD FOR SOUP. 2 eggs I A few drops cochineal 3 tablespoonfuls of good white | Pepper, salt, and cayenne stock | Beat the eggs, add stock, seasoning, and cochineal; pour into some small buttered dariole moulds; stand in a pan of hot water, allowing the water to come within half-an-inch of the top of mould. Simmer slowly until set, turn out, and when cold cut in slices and stamp out in fancy shapes or cut diamonds. Add to soup.8 No. 12. SPINACH SOUP. 1 lb. spinach 1 teaspoonful salt § teaspoonful pepper § teaspoonful sugar 1 oz. flour Wash and pick tne spinach, throw it into a pan of boiling water, containing a little sugar, salt, and soda; boil very quickly ten minutes, or until tender; drain, and rub through a fine wire sieve. Melt the butter, stir in flour until smooth, add stock, boil five minutes, pour over spinach, add salt, pepper, nutmeg, and cream; re-heat and serve. 1 oz. butter 1 quart of good stock, white A dust of nutmeg ^ pint cream No. 13. GOOD BROWN STOCK. 4 lbs. shin of beef 3 cloves 1 teaspoonful peppercorns 1 bay leaf Any poultry or game bones 2 quarts water 1 large carrot 2 onions, browned A bunch of sweet herbs 2 sticks celery Cut up the meat about one inch square, break up the bones and remove the marrow; cover with the water and bring gently to the boil; skim thoroughly, then add all the above ingredients, and simmer slowly four hours; pour through a fine sieve, and when cold remove the fat. The bones, &c., may be boiled down again for cheap soups.9 No. 14, GOOD WHITE STOCK. 4 lbs. shin of veal 1 onion 1 blade of mace An old fowl or a rabbit A few stalks of celery Any bones from poultry 2 quarts of water Cut up the meat into small pieces and break up the bones, put into a pan with the water cold and bring gently to the boil; skim thoroughly, add the above ingredients, and simmer slowly four hours; pour through a fine sieve, and when cold remove the fat. The bones may be boiled .down again for cheap soup. Cut some bread about J-inch thick, stamp out in rounds about the size of a shilling, put about \ lb. of butter into a saucepan and melt, pour off the top into a frying-pan, leaving the sediment at the bottom ; allow this to heat until it turns a light brown; throw in the bread, and fry a light golden colour, drain on soft paper, and serve. No. 15. CROUTONS FOR SOUP.10 FISH. No. 16. COD STEAKS WITH TOMATO PUREE. 2 cod steaks about 1 inch thick £ lb. of tomatoes | pint fish stock ^ pint stock Salt, pepper, and cayenne 1 oz. butter f oz. flour A slice of onion A blade of mace Wipe the fish dry, and sprinkle with salt and lemon juice and a little pepper on the under side; lay on a buttered plate, put another buttered plate over ; set on the top of a saucepan of boiling water, and steam in this way for half-an-hour, or until the fish begins to leave the bones; lift on a towel to drain. Meanwhile, heat the butter and fry in it the tomatoes and onions sliced, add the flour, mace, and seasonings, J pint of stock, and the liquid from the fish, and simmer gently 15 minutes; rub through a fine hair sieve, adding a little more stock if too thin ; re-heat and pour over the fish, coating it entirely, and serve. No. 17. STEWED EELS. 2 or 3 eels 2 tablespoonfuls cream A little lemon juice Pepper, salt, and cayenne 1 oz. butter A bunch of parsley £ pint white stock 1 small onion Bunch of sweet herbs A blade of mace 1 oz. flour | teaspoonful peppercorns Skin and divide the eels into pieces about two inches11 long, put them into a pan with the stock, onion, herbs, mace, parsley, lemon juice, and peppercorns ; bring to the boil, skim, and allow to simmer 15 minutes; lift out the eels to drain. Meanwhile, melt the butter, stir in flour until smooth, add liquid from fish, and boil five minutes; strain over the eels, which should be piled in the centre of a dish. No. 18. STEWED EELS (Brown). Prepare as above, only use a good brown stock for cooking eels, and when making sauce, brown the butter, then the flour, and add \ oz. glaze. No. 19. LOBSTER CORNETS. a lb. minced lobster, cold veal, or chicken 1§ oz. butter 1§ oz. flour | pint of good stock J pint of milk or cream | teaspoonful lemon juice A little salt, pepper, and cayenne Some French puff pastry (page 104.) Roll out the pastry as thinly as possible about 18 inches long, cut into strips one inch wide, wet the right hand side of each strip and roll on some ^slipper moulds, which must be greased on the outside, commencing at the thin end of the moulds, and allow the wetted edge * Slipper Moulds, 2s. 6d. per dozen, by post 2s. 9d., from H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street, Warrington.12 to fold over the under-layer of pastry each time; finish the top neatly, put on a baking sheet, paint over the top of each with a little beaten egg; bake in a hot oven eight to ten minutes. Meanwhile put the butter into a pan to melt, then stir in the flour and add the milk; stir until it boils and is thick and smooth, then add lobster, veal, or chicken, salt, pepper, cayenne, and lemon juice; re-heat, and put the mixture into a bag with a * *plain forcing tube; remove the moulds from pastry cases, and fill each with the mixture ; garnish alternately with lobster coral and parsley, dish in a ring, and serve hot or cold. . No. 20. LOBSTER SOUFFLE. 3 oz. flour I 1 oz. butter Yolk of one egg | 1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce Rub the butter into the flour, add to the yolk the anchovy and a little water; with this mix the flour into a stiff paste, roll out as thinly as possible, butter some cutlet moulds, and line with the pastry. Then prepare mixture as follows. * Forcing Bag and Plain Tube, Is. 4d., by post • Is. 6d., from H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street, Warrington.13 No. 21. SOUFFLE MIXTURE. 2 oz. minced lobster 1 yolk and 2 whites f teaspoonful anchovy Pepper, salt, and cayenne 1 oz. flour 1 oz. butter £ pint milk or cream ^ teaspoonful lemon juice Melt the butter and stir in the flour until quite smooth, then add the milk, stir until it boils and is well thickened, then add the flavourings, yolk of egg and lobster, and the white whipped to a very stiff froth; stir in very lightly, fill the cutlet moulds, and place on each a little piece of butter; bake 15 minutes, lift carefully out and dish like cutlets on a lace paper,, garnish the centre with parsley or cresses. No. 22. MULLETS A LA CARDINAL. 2 glasses of claret A small slice of onion A bay leaf 1 teaspoonful corn flour | oz. glaze Lemon juice A bunch of sweet herbs Salt and pepper Clean and trim the mullets, sprinkle them with salt, pepper, and lemon juice, lay them in a thickly buttered tin with the herbs, &c., pour round the wine, cover with buttered paper, and bake 20 minutes; remove the mullets into a dish, strain the gravy and thicken it with the corn flour, pour over and round the mullets, and serve. Cutlet Moulds, 2s. Od. per dozen, by post 2s. 3d.,. from H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street, Warrington.14 No. 23. PIKE A L’ANGLAISE. 1 pike £ dozen minced button mushrooms Salt, pepper, and cayenne 1 large egg 1 teaspoonful of arrowroot 1 oz. butter A dust nutmeg 4 pint good brown stock 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs 1 tablespoonful grated ham teaspoonful grated lemon rind 1 tablespoonful chopped suet 4 teaspoonful sweet herbs £ oz. glaze 1 small onion, minced 1 glass sherry 1 teaspoonful parsley Clean and remove the gills from the pike; prepare forcemeat by mixing bread crumbs, ham, lemon rind, suet, mushrooms, herbs, nutmeg, onion, parsley, and seasonings, with the egg beaten. Stuff the fish with this, then sew it up, and draw it into the shape of the letter S by putting a trussing needle threaded with string through the eyes, the centre of the body, and then through the tail, draw up and secure tightly. Put this into a well-buttered baking tin with a little butter on top; pour round the brown stock, a little liquid from mushroom and sherry, and bake half-an- hour, or longer, according to size, basting occasionally ; when done lift into a hot dish, remove the string, thicken slightly the gravy with arrowroot, and strain over the fish. No. 24. MAYONNAISE OF SALMON. Scale and clean the fish, put it into plenty of boiling water containing a little salt and lemon, boil gently,15 allowing 8 to 10 minutes to each pound according to the size of fish; lift out to drain, remove the skin, and when cold cover entirely with Mayonnaise Sauce (page 118). Dish on a block of aspic jelly, or chopped aspic (page 89); garnish prettily with cucumber, tomatoes, red chillies, lobster coral, hard boiled eggs, or any green salad. Salmon steaks may be steamed and dressed when cold in the same way; also trout. No. 25. SALMON STEAKS WITH CUCUMBER. 2 or 3 salmon steaks about 1 inch, thick pint good brown stock dessert spoonful of tarragon vinegar Salt, pepper, cayenne, and lemon juice 1 oz. butter 2 or 3 inches cucumber A little minced tarragon and chervil or parsley Wipe the steak dry, sprinkle with pepper, salt, and lemon juice, lay in a buttered tin, pour round the stock, cover with buttered paper, bake 20 minutes; when done remove into a hot dish; strain the gravy into a pan, add the vinegar, and gradually stir in 1 oz. butter; add season- ing, chopped tarragon and chervil or parsley, pour over and round the steaks. Cut the cucumber in small shreds about 1 inch long, season with vinegar, salt, and pepper, and put a pile on each steak, and serve. No. 26. BOILED SOLES. For boiling select large soles; clean, skin, and trim16 them; sprinkle with lemon juice, drop into boiling water for about six or seven minutes; drain, dish hot, and sprinkle with lobster coral and garnish with tufts of parsley and cut lemon. Serve with it melted butter (page 114); or any good fish sauce. No. 27. FILETS DE SOLE A LA CARDINAL. 2 soles about 1 lb. each Salt, pepper, and cayenne 2 pirn cream A little lemon juice 5 pint stock from fish bones 1 oz. flour Blade of mace Bay leaf Some lobster coral 1 oz. butter 1 small onion 2 stalks celery A good bunch of parsley Skin the soles and fillet them by slipping a knife down the back from the head to the tail, then lift the fillets carefully from the bones, lay them on a board, and sprinkle on both sides with salt, pepper, and lemon juice; fold in half, lay in a buttered tin, cover with buttered paper, and bake 15 to 20 minutes. Put the bones, with the parsley, mace, onion, celery, and bay leaf (broken) into a pan with £ pint of water or stock, and simmer slowly fifteen minutes. Melt the butter in another pan, stir in flour, seasonings, and lemon juice; strain the stock from the bones to the flour, add cream, and boil three minutes. Lift the fish out of the tin to drain, brush over with the sauce, then sprinkle with finely minced parsley and lobster coral; dish round a dish, allowing each fillet to rest against the other, strain round the sauce, and serve.17 No. 28. FILETS DE SOLE A LA PARMESAN. 2 medium soles £ teaspoonful anchovy essence 1 oz. flour 1 oz. butter 1 bay leaf 1 blade of mace Lemon juice 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese ster or shrimps Salt and pepper \ pint milk 1 tablespoonful cream ^ of a small onion Yolks of 2 eggs 1 tablespoonful of minced lob- Skin and fillet the soles; wash the bones and skin, put into a saucepan with the milk, onion, mace, bay leaf, salt and pepper; simmer slowly half-an-hour; wash and dry the fillets, lay them the skin side uppermost, sprinkle each with salt, pepper, and lemon juice; mix the minced lobster with 1 tablespoonful of the cheese, 2 yolks, salt, pepper, and cayenne; lay a little of this mixture on one half of the fillets, fold over the other half, put into a well- buttered baking tin, cover with buttered paper, and bake 20 minutes; lift out on to a towel to drain; add any liquid in the baking tin to the bones ; put the butter into a pan, and when melted add the flour, stir until smooth, then add the milk from the bones, &c.; boil three minutes, stir in the cream, anchovy, and a few drops of lemon juice. Dish the fillets round a dish, strain over the sauce (which should be about the consistency of good thick cream), taking care to coat each fillet; sprinkle every other fillet with Parmesan, and brown under gas burner or in front of fire; then sprinkle the fillets between the cheese with minced parsley or lobster coral. o18 No. 29. SHRIMP WITH MAYONNAISE. \ pint picked shrimps 2 tablespoonfuls mayonnaise sauce (page 118) A few grains cayenne \ pint aspic jelly (page 89) A g<?od bunch watercress A little lobster coral and minced parsley Some thin rounds of bread & butter, about 3 inches long and 1£ inches wide Put the shrimps into a basin and add to them the mayonnaise, one tablespoonful of liquid aspic, and a little cayenne; mix together, and pile in the centre of each round of bread and butter, sprinkle alternately with coral and chopped parsley. Arrange round the edge of a dish the aspic (chopped), then the pieces of bread with shrimps resting one on the other, fill the centre with watercress or any other green, and serve. No. 30. SMELTS (Fried). Clean, trim the fins, and remove the gills; wipe very dry, roll in flour, then brush over, coating them entirely with a beaten egg; roll in finely-made bread crumbs seasoned with salt and pepper, put into a basket, then immerse in plenty of smoking hot fat for a few minutes, or until brown and crisp; drain on soft paper, dish on lace paper in a heap, and garnish with fried parsley(page 119), serve with lobster or shrimp sauce. Smelts make a pretty garnish for many fish dishes, the tails drawn through the eyes, dressed as above, and fried.19 No. 81. TURBOT (Boiled), Select a medium-sized turbot, quite fresh ; clean and dry it carefully, cover with lemon juice, put into the turbot kettle and cover with cold water, add about a tablespoonful of salt; bring to the boil and skim thoroughly, draw on one side and simmer slowly 20 to 40 minutes, according to size; lift out and drain, dish on a napkin; garnish the dish alternately with cut lemon and parsley. Serve with Dutch oyster or lobster sauce. No. 32. TURBOT A LA FRANCAISE. 1 turbot, 3 to 4 lbs. Salt, pepper, and cayenne A dust of sweet herbs A little lemon juice 1 tin of button mushrooms 1 egg 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs 1 doz. oysters Clean and dry the turbot, cut off fins and tail, cut down the centre of the back from the head to the tail, carefully raise the fillets, cut through the backbone at the head and tail, remove it entirely without breaking the under part of the fish ; season well with white pepper, salt and lemon juice; then mince half the mushrooms, add to them the bread crumbs, sweet herbs, a little grated lemon rind, and seasoning, mix together with the egg; lay this forcemeat inside the fish and close it up neatly, lay in a buttered baking tin, and pour round \ pint white stock, 2 tablespoonfuls of the mushroom liquid and the liquid from the oysters, also lay in the tin the beards from the oysters. Cover with buttered paper,20 and bake slowly 40 minutes, basting occasionally; lift out on to a disk, put the liquid into a pan, and warm the oyster and remainder of the mushrooms ; make Sauce a la Fran5aise (page 116) with liquid, pour over fish, and garnish the dish with the mushrooms and oysters; serve with more sauce in tureen. No. 33. FILLETS OF TURBOT A LA CREME. Clean, dry, and fillet the turbot by cutting it down the centre of the back, then slip the knife between the bone and the fish, raising the fillets, divide the fillets into three or four, according to size; put in a buttered baking tin with a little white stock or white wine, squeeze over a little lemon juice, cover with buttered paper, and bake 20 minutes. Drain, and dish’ round or down the centre of a dish, allowing each fillet to rest on the other, coat with a good Creme Sauce (page 116) and serve. The remains of a turbot may be warmed and served in the same way. No. 34. TROUT A LA VICTORIA. 2 small trout A few drops tarragon vinegar ^ oz. flour 1 oz. butter Salt, pepper, cayenne, and lemon juice 2 lb. picked spinach Yolks of 3 eggs, hard boiled 2 raw yolks | pint cream | pint stock from fish Clean and dry the trout, and cut crossways down21 each side, dust with salt and pepper, lay them in a buttered baking tin, pour round £ pint white stock or water, cover with buttered paper, and bake 15 to 30 minutes according to size. Throw the spinach into some boiling water, containing a little salt and soda, boil until tender, drain, and rub through a wire sieve. Melt the butter in a pan, add salt, pepper, cayenne, spinach, and flour, stir until quite smooth, then add cream and stock from fish, boil five minutes, then add to yolks and tarragon. Lift the fish into a hot dish, and strain round the sauce, which should be a pale green shade. No. 35. WHITEBAIT. The whitebait should be quite fresh and kept on ice until required, then dry them well, and roll them in plenty of flour; put a few at a time in a wire basket, immerse them in smoking hot fat, and fry two minutes or until crisp, shaking them occasionally; pour on to soft paper and drain, sprinkle with a little salt and cayenne. Serve in a heap on a lace paper with brown bread and butter and cut lemons. No. 36. FILLET OF WHITING A LA PRINCESSE. 3 or 4 whiting 1 tablespoonful tarragon vinegar Salt and peppercorns 1 oz. butter 2 tablespoonfuls good stock 2 shallots 1 bay leaf Sprig of parsley A few drops of lemon juice Skin and fillet the whiting, sprinkle with salt and lemon juice, put the shallots and herbs at the bottom of a22 saucepan ; divide the fillets in half, or, if small, fold over in half; lay these on vegetables, put the butter on top, pour round stock and vinegar, simmer slowly 15 minutes; lift out and drain, dish round a dish, resting each fillet against the other; pour over tomato sauce. (Page 119.) No. 37. WHITING (Fried). Skin the whiting, remove the gills and the eyes, dry them thoroughly and draw their tails through the eyes; roll in flour, and brush over with egg; put into a basket, and put into enough smoking hot lard or fat to cover; fry gently 5 minutes, and a nice brown ; drain on soft paper ; dish in a ring on a lace paper or serviette, and garnish with parsley, fried (page 119); serve with parsley or Dutch sauce. (Page 116.) ENTREES. No. 38. FILET DE BCEUF A LA ROSSINE. 1 lb. mashed potatoes 1 egg £ pint brown stock | oz. glaze 1 teaspoonful flour 1| oz. butter £ lb. mushrooms Pepper and salt l£ lbs. beef, undercut Mix the potatoes with half the egg, |oz. butter, pepper, and salt; form a round cake about 7 inches in diameter, and 1 inch thick, with a pyramid in the centre ;23 put on to a baking sheet, paint over with the remainder of the egg ; bake half an hour, or until a nice brown; divide the beef into neat fillets half an inch thick; put the remainder of the butter into a saute or frying pan, and when hot fry the fillets very quickly, a nice brown on both sides ; remove from the pan, and keep hot; put the flour into the pan, and brown; then add the stock and glaze, a little pepper and salt; allow this to boil up; strain into a small pan, add the mushrooms, which must be peeled and the centres removed ; simmer slowly 10 minutes, remove the mushrooms, and boil the gravy quickly until reduced to about one third; arrange the casserole of potatoes in the centre of the dish, and the fillets of beef on the potatoes round the pyramid ; put some of the mushrooms on a hatlet skewer, and stick in the middle of the potatoes, garnish the dish with the remainder; strain the gravy over the fillets and round the base of the dish. This dish may be garnished in the centre with heather or berries instead of the hatlet skewer. No. 39. FILLETS OF BEEF, with mixed Vegetables. 2 lbs. of the fillet of beef 2 oz. butter £ pint stock Carrots, turnips, peas or parsnips § oz. glaze Pepper and salt Small onions Divide the vegetables into pieces the size and shape of an olive, boil them each in separate saucepans until24 tender; meanwhile divide the meat into neat pieces, allowing a small piece of fat to each fillet; put the butter into a saute pan, and when hot fry in it very quickly the fillets; dish round a dish with a piece of fat on each; remove the butter from the frying pan, and add J oz. of glaze, £ pint of stock or water, season with pepper and salt; when hot pour over the fillets. Drain the vegetables, put all into one pan, with about an oz. of the butter from the fillets and £ oz. of the glaze; shake until dissolved; dish in centre of the fillets. No. 40. MINCED BEEF WITH EGG GARNISH. 1 oz. butter | lb. minced beef 4 small onion | teaspoonfnl of grated orange rind 1 teaspoonful lemon juice 4 hard-boiled eggs 1 oz. flour ^ pint stock £ glass port wine 3 or 4 mushrooms minced Put the butter into a pan, and when hot brown in it the onion, chopped very fine; then add flour, and when brown add stock and wine ; boil two or three minutes, then add seasoning, lemon juice, orange rind, beef, and mushrooms; heat through; dish in the centre of a dish in a pile, cover the centre with the yolks of the eggs passed through a fine wire sieve or potato masher. Put a thick border of the whites, chopped fine, round the base of the dish.25 No. 41. MINCED BEEF AUX CHAMPIGNONS. 1 oz. flour | lb. minced beef | pint stock 1 oz. butter 1 doz. mushrooms Pepper and salt Put the butter into a pan, and when dissolved pour off the butter into another pan (leaving the sediment); when quite hot fry in this some small rounds of bread about 2\ inches in diameter; remove the bread, and then cook the mushrooms in the butter 10 minutes, first removing the skins and stalks and seasoning them with salt and pepper; lift them out, put one mushroom on each piece of bread, and arrange round the edge of a dish. Put the flour into the butter, stir until smooth, then add stock and seasoning, boil three minutes, then stir in the minced meat, and when quite hot pour in the centre of the dish. No. 42. FILLETS OF CHICKEN OR FOWL A LA SUPREME. The breast fillets from two good- sized fowls i tin of button mushrooms Some rounds of red tongue or ham ^ pint cream ^ pint very good chicken stock 2 oz. butter § oz. flour Salt A little lemon juice Skin the breasts of the fowls and remove the fillets, and divide each fillet into two parts neatly; heat the butter, but take care it does not become brown; season the fillets with a little salt, and lay them in the hot butter, fry until white and set, then turn them and fry26 the under side; about eight minutes should be sufficient, and be careful to keep them quite white; lift them out and keep warm between two plates; add the flour to the butter, and when smooth add stock, cream, two table- spoonfuls of liquid from the mushrooms, and a few drops of lemon; boil three minutes, then put in mushrooms and fillets to re-heat; stamp out some rounds of lean ham or tongue, and warm it in a little clear stock ; arrange the fillets round a dish with a round of ham between each, pile the mushrooms in the centre, and strain over the sauce. The sauce should be about the thickness of cream. / No. 43. CHICKEN OR FOWLS’ LEGS A LA ROYALE. 4 legs of fowl £ pint good brown stock oz. glaze carrot 1 stalk celery Bunch sweet herbs Pepper, salt £ lb. bacon fat £ lb. sausages 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs dozen mushrooms 1 small onion Bunch parsley 1 egg A little grated lemon rind Cut the legs close to the body of the fowl, leaving on a large piece of skin, break off about one inch of the drumstick end, and remove the upper bone entirely; mix the sausage meat, bread crumbs, pepper, salt, dust of sweet herbs and lemon rind, together with the egg beaten; with this stuff the legs, inserting one mushroom in each, sew these up, making them look as plump as possible. Divide the bacon into lardoons about one27 inch long, and lard each leg neatly on top. Cut up all the vegetables and lay them at the bottom of a sauce- pan, put the legs on the top, pour round the stock, and simmer slowly j to one hour, remove into a tin and brown quickly under a gas grill, in a quick oven, or in front of the fire; strain the gravy into another pan, remove the fat, season, add mushrooms and glaze; re-heat. Dish the legs, pour over the gravy, and garnish the dish with the mushrooms. No. 44. MINCED CHICKEN WITH RICE. | lb. of cold chicken 1 oz. minced ham £ pint good chicken stock 2 tablespoonfuls liquid from the mushrooms Salt, pepper, and lemon juice ^ doz. minced mushrooms 1 oz. flour 1 oz. butter Melt the butter; stir in the flour; add stock, mush- room liquid, and boil three minutes; season; add chicken, ham, mushrooms, and heat gently through. Have a rice border prepared as follows: No. 45. RICE BORDER. £ lb. rice 1 About 1 pint of stock Yolks of 3 eggs | Pepper, salt Wash the rice, and boil until tender in the stock until it is quite dry; add seasoning ; then stir in the yolk; press this into a border mould, first dipped in hot water; turn out at once, fill the centre with the mince, and serve. This may be prepared with veal, and garnished with lemons and parsley.28 No. 46. CHICKEN A LA CLAREMONT. 1 chicken Pepper, salt, and lemon juice 1 carrot 1^ pints stock £ oz. glaze \ lb. sausages \ lb. lean ham or tongue Bunch of sweet herbs 1 stick celery, 1 onion A few sprigs of parsley Bone the chicken, taking care not to break the outside skin, lay it flat on a board, the skin downwards, season with salt, lemon juice, and white pepper; spread over the top the sausages; divide the ham into strips, and arrange them lengthwise, roll up, and sew firmly; tie up tightly in a cloth, put into a saucepan with the bones and vegetables, pour round the stock, boiling; simmer If hours; lift out, and reduce the gravy to one-half by fast boiling, add the glaze and seasoning. Remove the cloth from the chicken, also the stitches; cut in rounds about a third of an inch thick, lay these round a border of potato (page 120), or border of rice ; fill the centre with any seasonable vegetable, strain round the gravy, and serve. A breast of veal may be boned and dressed in the same way. No. 47. CHICKEN A LA CREME. 3 oz. minced chicken or veal 3 oz. ham 3 or 4 minced button mushrooms A little salt, pepper, and cayenne ^ teaspoonful parsley, minced and scalded Green salad ^ pint cream Beat up the cream until quite stiff, then add the veal, ham, mushrooms, and seasonings, also the parsley, which must be first scalded and finely minced; mix well29 together, pile in the centre of a dish, and garnish with a thick border of salad. Sprinkle- over the top minced parsley and lobster coral. No. 48. CHICKEN WITH CROQUETTES OF RICE. 1 chicken \ lb. fat bacon 1 onion 1 bay leaf Pepper and salt f doz. mushrooms 1 whole egg £ lb. of rice 2 tablespoonfuls Parmesan cheese Bunch of sweet herbs J oz. glaze 1 quart of stock Some bread crumbs Lard the breast of the chicken with the bacon, and cover it with a few slices of thinly cut bacon ; slice the onion and lay at the bottom of the saucepan, with the sweet herbs and bay leaf; lay the chicken on this, and pour round 1J pints of the stock or water;. simmer slowly 30 minutes; lift out and put into a dripping tin with a little of the liquid; put in the oven for 15 minutes to brown, basting occasionally; peel the mush- rooms and remove the stalks, season with pepper and salt, drop them into the liquid in which the chicken has been boiled ; simmer 10 minutes ; remove, and lay round the dish. Boil the liquid until reduced to f pint, remove the fat, add glaze; season; and pass through a fine sieve; pour part round the chicken, and the remainder serve in a tureen. While the fowl is boiling prepare the croquettes of rice as follows:—Wash the rice and boil in % pint of stock30 until tender, and as it absorbs the stock season with salt and pepper, and stir in the cheese ; turn out on to a plate, until cool and firm ; then form into pear shapes ; paint over with the whole egg (beaten), and roll in bread crumbs ; fry a light brown in smoking hot fat; drain, and put in the thin end of each about 1 inch of the stem of parsley ; arrange round the chicken alternately with the mushrooms. Or the rice may be boiled as for curry ; the Parmesan and seasoning stirred into it, and laid roughly round the dish with the mushrooms on the top. No. 49. CHICKEN AUX CHAMPIGNONS. 1 chicken ^ pint brown stock Pepper and salt 1 small onion Bunch sweet herbs J glass sherry 1 dozen mushrooms j oz. flour 1 oz. butter 4 lb. fat bacon 1 bay leaf Truss the chicken for roasting, cover the breast with the bacon cut in thin slices, roast 40 minutes ; mean- while put the. butter into a saucepan, and when hot brown in it the onion (sliced), draw the onion on one side the pan and brown the flour, add the stock, sweet herbs, and mushrooms, first removing the stems, and season well with salt and pepper; simmer slowly 15 minutes, then add sherry; dish the chicken, pour from the dripping tin all the fat, and add any gravy to the sauce; garnish round the chicken with the mushrooms, remove all the fat from the sauce, strain a little round the dish, and the remainder serve in a tureen.31 No. 50. CHICKEN WITH TOMATO PUREE* 1 chicken Bunch of sweet herbs A blade of mace § lb. tomatoes 1 ounce flour Salt and pepper 1 small carrot 1 onion 2 or 3 cloves | pint stock 1 oz. butter Forced tomatoes (page 54) Skin and joint the chicken neatly; slice the carrot and onion, put them at the bottom of a saucepan with the sweet herbs, mace, and cloves; lay on the top the chicken, and pour round the stock (boiling) ; simmer slowly 30 minutes to an hour, according to age of bird. Meanwhile slice the tomatoes and fry them 15 minutes in the butter, then stir in flour, and strain the stock to tomatoes ; season, and rub through a hair sieve; re-heat and pour over chicken so as to coat it thoroughly. Garnish the dish with forced tomatoes. No. 51. CHAUFROID OF CHICKEN. i chicken 1 oz. flour ^ pint milk or cream Salt and ^ teaspoonful peppercorns 1 quart of aspic jelly 1 oz. butter 1 quart of aspic jelly A few drops of cochineal Truss the chicken for boiling, put it into a saucepan with enough boiling water to cover it, one small onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace ; simmer slowly thirty minutes to an hour, according to the age of the32 bird; lift out, drain, and remove the skin, set aside to cool; strain the liquid, and when cold remove the fat and use for aspic jelly (No. 89). Fill a border mould with part of the jelly, and when set dip in warm water and turn out. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, stir until smooth, then add the milk, ^ pt. aspic jelly, salt and pepper, boil this until it is reduced to half the quantity, pass through a fine hair sieve; colour part of this sauce a pretty pink with cochineal, allow this to get cool, but not set; joint the chicken neatly, and dip half of the joints in the cream sauce and the remainder in the pink sauce; put aside until firm, if not well covered dip them in the sauces again. When quite set arrange the pieces in the centre and on the top of the border of aspic. Put a little of the aspic into a forcing bag with a rose tube, and garnish the rough edges of the fowl, and round the base of the dish. A little chopped pars- ley, hard-boiled yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve, and any remains of the cold sauces may be used for garnishing. A base of salad may also be used instead of the border of aspic, if preferred.33 No. 52. CHICKEN A L’lTALIENNE. 1 chicken Bunch of sweet herbs 1 oz. flour 1 oz. butter 3 oz. Naples macaroni f pint stock or water 1 small shallot or onion 1 blade of mace Yolks of 2 eggs 3 tablespoonfuls grated Parmesan cheese Salt, pepper, and cayenne Skin and joint the chicken neatly, put it into a sauce- pan with the stock (boiling), the shallot, mace, sweet herbs, and simmer slowly 30 minutes to one hour. Meanwhile wash the macaroni and break into pieces one inch long, throw it into a pint of boiling water with 1 oz. of the butter and boil until tender, then strain from it the water, and add a little pepper, salt, and cayenne, and one tablespoonful of Parmesan cheese. Arrange this round the edge of a dish, and the chicken in the centre. Put the butter into a pan and melt, stir in the flour until smooth, then add the liquid from the chicken, pepper, salt, and cayenne, stir until thick, and boil three minutes, strain to the yolks of two eggs, add the remainder of the Parmesan cheese; put back into the pan, re-heat, but do not allow it to boil, pour over the chicken, and serve. The dish may be garnished with a very little parsley if liked. D34 No. 53. CHICKEN A LA MAYONNAISE. 2 tablespoonfuls of minced veal, chicken, or game 2 tablespoonfuls of minced ham or tongue 1 tablespoonful finely-cut lettuce, celery, or any salad 1 small tomato, finely cut A little pepper, salt, and cayenne About £ pint Mayonnaise sauce. (Page 118.) Put all the ingredients into a basin, with half of the sauce, and mix together; pile this in the centre of a dish with a nice border of salad, flavoured with a little salt, sugar, vinegar, and salad oil; cover the chicken mixture with the remainder of the Mayonnaise, and sprinkle with finely minced parsley and lobster coral; or the chicken mixture may be divided and put into small souffle cases, covered with Mayonnaise, and sprinkled alternately with lobster coral and minced parsley, and dished on a lace paper or on a salad border to taste. No. 54. CURRIED LAMB. 2 lbs. best end of neck of lamb 2 oz. butter ^ pint milk 1 onion 1 teaspoonful sugar 3 tablespoonfuls cocoanut tablespoonful curry powdei ^ pint good stock 1 teaspoonful salt 1 tablespoonful lemon juice Small apple Remove the bones from the lamb, and divide into squares about one inch; put the butter into a pan, and when hot fry in it the lamb until brown ; remove and35 fry the onions, add curry, cocoanut, apple (minced), sugar, stock, and milk, also the lamb; simmer slowly 30 minutes, remove the fat, add salt and lemon juice, dish in a pile with the sauce poured round, and serve with it a dish of curry rice. (Page 120.) No. 55. KIDNEY CROQUETTES. 1 calf’s kidney Salt, pepper 1£ oz. rice flour £ pint good stock 1 yolk, raw 1 whole egg 2 oz. butter 1 glass sherry 1 tablespoonful minced ham Very small piece minced onion A dust of sweet herbs Pepper, salt £ lb. bread crumbs Some fat for frying 1 teaspoonful parsley J oz. of glaze Cut the kidney into slices, heat the butter until it begins to turn brown, then throw in the kidney, onion, herbs, and fry about two minutes, shaking the saucepan occasionally: strain the butter into another pan and pour over the kidney the stock and sherry, simmer slowly ten minutes ; remove from the pan and mince finely, add ham and a dust of minced parsley. Meanwhile add the flour to half the gravy, and stir until smooth and a thick paste, boil three minutes; now add kidneys and yolk of egg and seasoning, and spread on a plate until cold; then form into cork shapes, brush over with the whole egg (beaten), roll in finely-made bread crumbs, and fry in a36 bath of hot fat; garnish with cut lemons and parsley; add to the remainder of the gravy £ oz. of glaze, season, and serve in a tureen. No. 56. SWEETBREADS (Larded). 2 or 3 heart sweetbreads Bunch of sweet herbs £ pint stock \ lb. bacon Salt and pepper 1 carrot 1 onion A few sprigs of parsley £ oz. flour 1 oz. butter Steep the sweetbreads in cold water 2 hours, changing the water several times; drop them in boiling water 3 minutes, lift out into cold water for 15 minutes; drain, and remove the skin and fat, press them for half an hour between two plates, divide the bacon into neat lardoons and lard them ; put all the vegetables (sliced) at the bottom of a pan, lay on top the sweetbreads, pour round the stock, and simmer slowly half an hour. Melt the butter in another pan, add the flour and stock from sweetbreads, boil 3 minutes, dish the sweetbreads, and strain over the sauce. No. 57. SWEETBREADS IN BROWN GRAVY. Prepare as above. When cooked lift the sweetbreads into a dripping tin, and brown them quickly under a gas grill or in front of a sharp fire ; put one ounce of brown glaze into the gravy (instead of the flour), and strain round the sweetbreads.37 No. 58. SWEETBREADS with Calf’s Brains. 2 sweetbreads £ lb. bread crumbs 1 tablespoonful minced parsley 2 eggs 1 bay leaf § pint white stock Blade of mace 1 set of calf’s brains £ lb. thinly cut boiled ham 4 button mushrooms £ onion Bunch of sweet herbs 1 oz. butter 1 oz. flour Soak the brains in some salt and water for two hours, remove the skin; put them into a pan with the stock, onion, mace, bay leaf, sweet herbs, and button mushrooms; bring slowly to the boil, and simmer gently five minutes; remove the brains and rub through a wire sieve, also the mushrooms; mix with them a little seasoning and the yolk of egg; soak the sweetbreads 2 hours in lukewarm water, drop in boiling water for one minute, take out and immerse in cold water for a minute, then put them in the stock in which the brains have been boiled, and simmer slowly 15 to 20 minutes; remove and press until cold; cut in neat slices about £ inch thick, thickly cover one side with the brains, &c.; mix with the crumbs the parsley and a little salt and pepper, beat up an egg, and entirely cover each piece of sweetbread; roll in the bread crumbs and fry in smoking hot fat a light gold; drain on soft paper, cut a round of bread about two inches thick, 8 inches long, and 5 inches wide, take out the centre, fry this in hot fat, place in the centre of the dish, arrange the sweetbreads neatly round, with a thin piece of ham between each,38 stamped out the same size as the sweetbread, and warmed in the stock; fill the centre with any seasonable vegetable, or any of the brain puree that may be left, and pour round a white sauce, prepared as follows:—Put the butter into a pan, and when melted add the flour, stir until smooth, then add the stock in which the sweetbreads have been boiled, first removing the fat, a tablespoonful of liquid from the mushrooms, and as much cream as will reduce it to the thickness of good cream ; season and strain round the base of the dish. Pluck, singe, and bone the pigeons, leaving on the feet, cut the pigeons in half lengthwise, scald and skin the feet and season the inside of the birds with salt and pepper. Draw the half pigeons into little plump shapes, arranging the foot in the centre; butter thickly a saucepan and lay in the pigeons, add bay leaf, onion, sweet herbs, glaze, stock, and claret, cover with buttered paper, and simmer half-an-hour. Lift out the pigeons and press between two plates, strain gravy, and when cool remove all the fat. Meanwhile prepare the No. 59. PIGEONS A LA ROSSINE. 4 pigeons 1 bay leaf ^ small onion 1 glass claret 1A lbs. mashed potatoes 1 egg ^ pint good brown stock 1^ oz. butter Bunch of sweet herbs £ oz. glaze Salt and pepper 2 hard-boiled yolks of eggs39 casserole as follows :—Put the potatoes into a basin with half-an-ounce of melted butter, salt, pepper, and part of the egg, mix well; then form a round with the potatoes, about 1 inch thick and 8 inches in diameter, and a pillar in the centre 3 inches high; work this with the hand until quite firm and smooth, brush over with the remainder of the egg, and bake a light brown. After removing the fat from gravy, put it back into a saucepan with the pigeons, allow them to get hot through, dish the casserole in a silver dish, and arrange the pigeons all round, the feet uppermost, resting against the pillar of potatoes, strain over the gravy, then put the hard-boiled yolks into a ^forcing bag with a small rose tube, and with this garnish between each fillet. Put a silver hatlet skewer in the centre, or a bunch of heather, red berries, or any flower in season. Serve hot. No. 60. CHATJFROID OF PIGEONS. 2 pigeons | lb. veal A little salt and white pepper 3 medium-sized tomatoes 1 tablespoonful sherry ! oz. glaze A little salad oil, tarragon vinegar, and brown vinegar If pints aspic jelly. (Page 89.) 3 oz. bacon 6 truffles or button mushrooms Bone the pigeons, shred the veal and bacon, rub the whole through a fine wire sieve, season with pepper * Forcing Bag and Rose Tube, Is. 4d., by post Is. 6d., from H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street, Warrington.40 and salt, fill the two pigeons with this force, inserting 2 truffles or mushrooms in each; roll each in a separate cloth, and tie it up firmly; put the bones and trim- mings from the birds into a pan with one and a half pints of cold water, bring to the boil, and skim thoroughly; simmer \ hour; then put in the pigeons, and boil gently about f of an hour; lift out, and drain them ; and when quite cold remove the cloth, and cut in slices about J inch thick; strain the liquid from the bones, and remove all the fat, put back into a saucepan with one tomato sliced, ^ oz. glaze, \ pint of aspic jelly, a little salt, and ^ doz. peppercorns; boil until it is reduced to ^ pint, add 1 tablespoonful of sherry, a few drops of cochineal, and pass through a fine hair sieve ; with this, cover each of the slices of pigeon several times until well coated. Cover a silver dish with chopped aspic jelly; dish the slices of pigeon lengthwise, one piece resting on the other down each side of the dish. Slice the tomatoes, and sprinkle them with a little salad oil, tarragon and brown vinegar, a pinch of salt, and castor sugar; arrange these down the centre of the dish; put a little j elly in a ^forcing bag, with a rose pipe, and finish off the edges neatly. * Forcing Bag and Rose Tube, Is. 4d., by post Is. 6d., from H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street, Warrington.41 No. 61. FILLETS OF VEAL WITH CUCUMBER. 1^ lb. of fillet of veal £ oz. glaze 2 oz. bread crumbs ^ small onion, minced Pepper and salt Blade of mace £ lb. boiled ham 1 medium-sized cucumber 1 teaspoonful minced parsley 1 egg 1 bay leaf Divide the veal into small rounds about 2 J inches in diameter and inch thick; mix the bread crumbs with the minced onion, parsley, and a little salt and pepper, beat up the egg and paint over each piece of veal; then roll in bread crumbs, and fry about four minutes in hot at until a nice fawn colour; drain on soft paper. Put the trimming of the veal into a pan with \ pint of water, a small piece of onion, • one bay leaf, and a blade of mace ; simmer half an hour, strain off the gravy, add the glaze and seasoning, peel the cucumber, and cut in rounds about ^ inch thick, drop into boiling water five minutes, then put into the gravy and boil 15 minutes, or until tender. Stamp out the ham into rounds the same size as the veal, put into a tin with two or three tablespoonfuls of the gravy, and warm. Dish round a dish alternate layers of veal and ham, pile the cucumber in the centre, and pour the gravy round the base.42 No. 62. VEAL A LA POMME DE TERRE. 1 lb. of cold roast veal ^ pint cream 2 tablespoonfuls of the liquid bottle button mushrooms lb. red tongue or boiled ham from the mushrooms Salt, pepper, and a little lemon 1 oz. flour 1 oz. butter J pint of good stock juice Yolks of 2 eggs Cut the veal into thin slices and stamp out into rounds about one inch in diameter, also the ham or tongue. Slice the mushrooms, put the butter into a saucepan, and when melted stir in the flour until smooth, then add stock, cream, and liquid from the mushrooms, pepper, salt, and lemon juice, boil three minutes; pour over the yolks of two eggs and pass through a fine hair sieve; put back into a saucepan, add the veal, ham, and mushrooms; stand the pan inside another saucepan of hot water until hot through, taking care it does not boil or the sauce will become curdled, and spoiled. When hot pile in the centre of a dish, and garnish alternately with cut quarters of lemon and croquettes of potatoes.43 No 63. TARTLETS A LA PRINCESSE. £ lb. French puff pastry (page 104) 1 oz. butter J pint cream ^ score of oysters £ teaspoonful lemon juice A dust of salt, pepper, & cayenne 2 eggs boiled hard 1 oz. flour 1 tablespoonful of chopped lobster claw 2 tablespoonfuls of liquid from oysters 1 tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese Minced parsley Prepare the pastry a few hours before it is required, roll out about J of an inch thick, stamp out in rounds with a fancy cutter about 3 inches in diameter, then stamp out the same number of rounds with a fancy 2 inch cutter, stamp the centres out of the latter with a fancy 1 inch cutter. Paint over the top of the large rounds with beaten egg, then place on the top of those the smaller rounds with the centres removed, paint the top again with egg, and bake 15 minutes. Meanwhile prepare the oysters as follows: Put the butter into a saucepan and melt it, add the flour and stir until smooth, then add the cream and liquid from the oysters, salt, pepper, cayenne, and lemon juice, boil three minutes; this should be a thick white sauce resembling whipped cream. Beard the oysters, and drop them into boiling water for half a minute, divide into two or three according to size, add to sauce with the grated cheese and one hard-boiled egg chopped very fine; with this fill each of the pastry cases, cover alternately with the chopped lobster, white and yolk of egg, and parsley.44 VEGETABLES. No. 64. DRESSED ARTICHOKES (GLOBE). 6 artichokes 2 tablespoonfuls minced lean ham 2 tablespoonfuls minced fat bacon Pepper, salt Yolks of 3 eggs £ pint good brown stock 1 doz. button mushrooms A dessertspoonful minced parsley 1 small onion or shallot A dust of sweet herbs A little grated lemon rind £ oz. glaze Trim the artichokes, and put them into a pan, with plenty of boiling water, and containing about 1 tea- spoonful of salt to each quart; boil 40 minutes; lift them out to drain; meanwhile, prepare a forcemeat as follows:—Put the mushrooms, ham, bacon, parsley (minced), with herbs, lemon rind, and seasoning, into a frying-pan, fry 5 minutes; stir in the yolk, remove the centres from the artichokes with a small knife, fill with the forcemeat, put them into a saucepan, pour round the stock, and simmer slowly 10 minutes; dish carefully; add to the gravy J oz. glaze, reduce to one- third by fast boiling, strain over the artichokes, and serve. This gravy may be thickened if liked. No. 65. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES A LA CREME. Wash the artichokes and peel them, boil them 15 minutes in plenty of water containing a little salt, lemon juice, and butter; drain them, and pour over melted butter, with £ pint of cream stirred into it. Serve hot.4 5 No. 66. ASPARAGUS A LTTALIENNE. Pick and wash the asparagus carefully, tie up in bundles of about fifteen heads, and cut the stalks evenly about seven inches long; throw these into a pan with plenty of boiling water containing a teaspoonful of salt to each quart, and a pinch of soda; boil 15 to 20 minutes, lift out and drain on a towel; dish on a fried crouton or a thick slice of buttered toast. Pour over the stalk ends a little white Italian sauce (page 197),and serve the remainder in a tureen. The asparagus may be prepared and cooked as above, and served with a white or melted butter sauce. No. 67. FRENCH BEANS A LA PARISIENNE. 1 to 2 lbs. of beans 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley A dust of sweet herbs A few drops of lemon juice 2 oz. butter 1 teaspoonful flour 1 tablespoonful of cream A dust of nutmeg A small onion or shallot, minced Wash and remove the string from the back of the beans, and divide them crosswise into thin shreds, throw them into plenty of boiling water containing a teaspoon- ful of salt to each quart, and a dust of soda, and boil quickly until tender, and drain. Meanwhile put half the butter into a saucepan, and fry in it the onion five minutes; then add the flour, cream, parsley, herbs, nut- meg, and the remaining half of the butter gradually; stir the beans into this, re-heat and dish in a heap on a fried crouton, or with small croutons round the dish.46 No. 68. BROAD BEANS. 1 pint of beans Teaspoonful lemon juice 2 raw yolks 2oz. butter 1 dessertspoonful parsley, minced 1 tablespoonful cream A little pepper Shell the beans and throw them into boiling water containing 1 teaspoonful of salt to a quart, and boil until tender, then drain. Meanwhile mix the yolk, cream, parsley, and pepper together, stand the pan in another pan containing some boiling water, stir until it thickens, adding the butter, then stir in the lemon juice; mix this with the beans, and serve. No. 69. BRUSSELS SPROUTS AU GRATIN. About lbs. of sprouts I 3 tablespoonfuls of grated ^ pin!t good white sauce (page 119) [ Parmesan cheese Pick and steep the sprouts in cold water and salt a few hours before cooking. Throw them into plenty of boiling water, containing a teaspoonful of salt to each quart, and a pinch of soda. Boil quickly 10 minutes, then drain. Have ready half-a-pint of good white ♦ sauce, containing 1 tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, add two tablespoonfuls of the sauce to the sprouts, shake this well amongst them. Dish them in a, heap on a fried crouton, or in the centre of a dish, pour over the remainder of the sauce, and sprinkle over with grated Parmesan; brown under a gas grill, in a quick oven, or in front of a bright fire, and serve.STEWED CUCUMBERS. 1 good sized cucumber 1 dessertspoonful parsley A teaspoonful lemon juice | pint of stock or cream Yolks of 2 eggs 2 oz. butter £ oz. flour Peel and divide tlie cucumber into four lengthwise, remove the seeds, and cut into pieces about 3 inches long; throw them into boiling water 5 minutes, remove and drain; heat the butter, and fry them 5 minutes; remove, and add the flour to the butter, cream or stock, salt, pepper, and lemon juice; put back the cucumber, and simmer until tender; dish, add the parsley minced to the sauce, and stir to the raw yolks; pour over the cucumber and serve. The cucumber may be prepared as above with, brown stock, % oz. brown glaze, which will make the gravy brown. No. 71. CABBAGE (Braized). 1 good sized Savoy cabbage 1 onion A few sprigs of parsley 1 pint stock A bunch sweet herbs 1 carrot 1 small turnip 1 stalk celery Salt and pepper £ oz. glaze Cut the the cabbage in half, and steep in cold water some hours before cooking it; then throw it into plenty of boiling water, containing 1 teaspoonful of salt to each quart, and a pinch of soda; boil quickly about 20 minutes, lift out and drain, also remove the stalk from48 the centre. Put all the above vegetables (sliced) into a pan, lay the cabbage on the top, pour round the stock, and boil until tender. Lift out and drain, press into a dish, and divide in squares. Dissolve the glaze in two tablespoonfuls of stock and brush over cabbage, and serve. No. 72. PUREE OF CAULIFLOWER. 2 small cauliflowers 1 oz. butter 2 tablespoonfuls cream Pepper, salt, and cayenne oz. flour tablespoonfuls white stock A few drops lemon juice Soak the cauliflowers an hour before boiling in salt and water, throw into a pan of boiling water containing one teaspoonful of salt to each quart; boil until tender, lift out and drain. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, stock, cream, and flavourings; add the cauliflower and mix well, rub the whole through a wire sieve, re-heat, and serve garnished with fried croutons. No. 73. . CAULIFLOWERS AU GRATIN. Same as Brussel Sprouts au Gratin (page 46). See Cauliflower. No. 74. BROCCOLI.49 No. 75. CARROTS (Braized), 8 or 9 young carrots ^ oz. of glaze 1 pint good brown stock 1* tablespoonful sugar Salt and pepper Trim the carrots and scrape them; keep them in cold water until ready for use. Put them into a pan with the stock, boiling, and the sugar; boil until tender; lift out, and keep hot. Meanwhile add glaze and sea- soning to gravy, and reduce it by fast boiling to one half. Dish the carrots, and pour round the gravy, and serve. If old carrots are used, they must be divided and boiled a little longer. No 76. CELERY (Fried). | doz. small heads celery I 2 eggs ^ lb. bread crumbs | Fat for frying Remove the outside leaves and wash the celery, throw into a pan of boiling water with a little salt, and simmer until tender, lift out and divide in half; dry thoroughly, brush over with the eggs (beaten), and roll in finely-made bread crumbs seasoned with salt and pepper ; put in a frying basket, and immerse them in smoking hot fat, when a nice light brown remove and drain, dish on a serviette or lace paper, sprinkle with finely minced parsley, and serve. E50 No. 77. CELERY (Boiled). Prepared as above and served with melted butter sauce poured over, and garnished with fried croutons. No. 78, MUSHROOMS AU GRATIN. 1 doz. large mushrooms 1 teaspoonful parsley 1 egg Pepper, salt, and cayenne 2 oz. butter 2 tablespoonfuls cooked minced veal 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs 1 tablespoonful minced suet £ pint good stock Mix all the forcemeat with the egg, skin and remove the centres from the mushrooms, season with salt and pepper; also place a small pat of butter in each. Then put a teaspoonful of the forcemeat on each, cover with bread crumbs; put in a buttered baking tin with the stock, and bake 15 minutes, or until brown; dish, and pour the gravy round. No. 79 VEGETABLE MARROW (Stuffed). 1 egg 1 medium-sized marrow Yolk of 1 egg Pepper, salt, and cayenne ^ tin mushrooms 2 tablespoonfuls minced ham ^ tablespoonful bread crumbs 1 teaspoonful minced parsley Peel the marrow, and take out the centre. Boil 15 minutes in plenty of boiling water, containing a little salt; lift out and drain; prepare a forcemeat of the mushrooms, ham, half the bread crumbs, parsley, pepper, salt and cayenne, all mixed with the egg; put51 this carefully into the centre of the marrow; put in a dripping tin, paint over with the yolk of egg. dust with bread crumbs, and bake until brown. Dish on a lace paper, and garnish with parsley. No. 80. GLAZED ONIONS. 1| doz. small onions 2 oz. butter Pepper and salt 2 tablespoonfuis stock \ oz. of glaze 1 tablespoonful sugar Remove the skins from the onions and throw them into boiling water for 5 or 6 minutes, then drain; heat the butter until brown, then fry the onions a light brown; add the stock, sugar, glaze, and seasoning, and simmer until tender. Dish, and pour round the gravy. The onions may be boiled plain and served with melted butter sauce (page 114). No. 81. PARSNIPS A LA FRANCAISE. 3 or 4 parsnips 4 lb- bread crumbs A little lemon juice 1 tablespoonful minced parsley 1 egg Peel and wash the parsnips, and, if large, cut in half; throw in plenty of boiling water, containing a, little salt and lemon juice. When tender, lift out and drain, brush over with the egg (beaten), and roll in crumbs, put in a hot oven and brown quickly, sprinkling with the parsley ; dish in a pyramid, and pour round melted butter sauce (page 114).52 No. 82. \ A GREEN PEAS A LA MAITRE D’HOTEL. 1 pint green peas Pepper and salt 2 oz. butter 1 bunch of mint 1 bunch of parsley A little lemon juice Shell the peas and throw into plenty of boiling water, containing a teaspoonful of salt and a dust of soda to each quart, and a sprig of mint; boil fast until tender, then drain. Mix the butter, one tablespoonful of scalded parsley and mint (finely minced), and the lemon juice ; stir this amongst the peas, re-heat them, shaking occasionally, dish and serve at once. To prepare potatoes for frying see they are well dried, then they may be peeled into ribbons or cut into thin slices, put into a frying basket, immersed in smoking hot fat, and fried brown and crisp; if thin, a few minutes will cook them. Drain on soft paper, sprinkle with minced parsley, pepper, and salt, and a pat of butter; serve quickly. If the potatoes are cut in thicker pieces, such as square blocks or quarter shapes, put them into the fat before it is quite smoking, and fry until tender, but not brown; then lift them out, re-heat the fat, and put the potatoes back for about a minute to brown and crisp. Serve as above. No. 83. POTATOES (Fried).53 No. 84. POTATOES AU GRATIN. 1 doz. medium-sized potatoes I 2 oz. grated Parmesau cheese 2 oz. butter I Boil the potatoes in the usual way until tender, with a little salt, drain and dry; then divide each potato ^ in half, lengthwise. Brush over with the butter (melted), sprinkling with the Parmesan. Put them in a buttered tin, and bake in a hot oven a nice light brown. Serve on a folded serviette or lace dish paper. 2 lbs. spinach Pepper, salt A dust of nutmeg No. 85. SPINACH A LA CREME. 1 oz. butter £ pint double cream 1 teaspoonful sugar Wash and pick the spinach, throw it into a pan of boiling water containing a little salt and soda; boil until tender, 10 to 15 minutes; pour on to a wire sieve, and squeeze out all the water ; rub through the sieve with a wooden spoon; put the spinach into a saucepan, with the seasoning, butter, and cream. The spinach may be prepared as above and mixed with white sauce instead of the cream ; garnish with fired croutons. No. 86. SEAKALE (Boiled). Trim and wash the Seakale, throw it into plenty of boiling water, containing a little salt; boil until tender, from 20 to 30 minutes; drain, and dish on buttered54 toast or a fried crouton. Serve with melted butter sauce (page 113) poured over or in a tureen ; add one dessertspoonful lemon juice to the sauce. No. 87. TURNIPS GLACES, with Sugar. A doz. turnips 2 oz. sugar 1 oz. butter £ pint good white stock Salt and lemon juice Peel and divide the turnips into small pear shapes, melt the butter in a pan, and stand in the turnips; pour round the stock, sugar, salt, and lemon juice; simmer until tender, remove the turnips, and stick in the thin end of each about one inch of the stalk of parsley as a garnish. Meanwhile boil down the gravy to one half, pour over and round the turnips, and serve. These may be made brown by using brown stock, and adding 1 oz. glaze to the gravy just before dishing. No. 88. FORCED TOMATOES. 6 or 8 medium-sized tomatoes 9 mushrooms, minced 1 tablespoonful minced parsley A small piece of onion 3 tablespoonfuls of lean ham, tongue, or chicken A dust of sweet herbs Pepper and salt 1 egg 3 oz. butter, or a little salad oil ^ pint stock | oz. glaze Remove the top from the tomatoes and scoop out the centres, taking care not to break the under skin, season each with salt and pepper. Put 1 oz. butter into a55 saucepan with 6 of the mushrooms, parsley, onion, 2 table- spoonfuls ham, sweet herbs, pepper and salt, all minced; fry 6 or 8 minutes; add one egg (beaten), and fill each tomato; put into a baking tin with 1 oz. butter, cover with buttered paper, bake 20 minutes. Put the centres of the tomatoes into a saucepan with 2 or 3 mushrooms, 1 small onion, 1 tablespoonful of minced ham, 1 oz. butter; fry for five minutes, then add J pint of brown stock, £ oz. glaze, salt and pepper, boil until reduced to half the quantity; skim off the fat, pass through a fine hair sieve, re-heat, and pour round the tomatoes; sprinkle on the top of each tomato a few brown bread crumbs. No. 89. DRESSED TOMATOES. 6 medium-sized tomatoes 1 small cold boiled potato ^ small cucumber 1 tablespoonful of Mayonnaise 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley Pepper, salt, and vinegar Cut a round about the size of a shilling from the upper side of the tomatoes, remove the seeds and pipes without breaking the under skin, and dust inside a little salt, pepper, and vinegar. Cut up the potato into small pieces, also the cucumber into thin pieces ; mix them together with the parsley, pepper, salt, and Mayonnaise, and with these fill the tomatoes. Smooth over with a little Mayonnaise, and serve on a lace paper or folded serviette.ELEVENTH EDITION WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO COOKING BY GAS, BY IT. >1. YOUNG (Diplomee as Demonstrator of CookeryMedalist, fyc). Price Is. 6d. By Post, Is. 9d. The above work will be found most useful and economical, containing 349 tried recipes and pages. MAY BE OBTAINED FROM It. M. YOUNG, 27, Arpley Street, WARRINGTON.57 Gl A M E. No 90. ROAST WILD PUCK. Truss and cover with fat bacon ; roast or bake about 20 to <30 minutes, basting well; remove the bacon, cover with butter, and dust with flour; brown quickly. Dish and garnish with alternate slices of lemon and orange, also a little watercress. Serve with a good brown gravy made from the trimmings of the bird, and add one glass of port and a little lemon juice. No. 91. ROAST GROUSE. Pluck, draw, singe, and truss as pheasants; cover with fat bacon, roast in front of a brisk fire or bake about 20 minutes. A few minutes before they are finished remove the bacon, baste with butter and dust with flour ; brown quickly. Dish on buttered toast, and serve with a rich brown gravy and bread sauce (page 115). No. 92. GUINEA FOWL. Draw and truss as pheasant; cover the breast with fat bacon, roast or bake about 45 minutes, basting all the58 time : remove the bacon just before it is finished, cover with butter and a little flour, brown quickly ; serve on a piece of toast, or with a little gravy poured round. Serve in tureens gravy and bread sauce (page 115). No. 93. ROAST LARKS. Pick, singe, and draw the birds; pass a skewer through several, and cover with fat bacon; roast or bake 10 to 15 minutes, basting thoroughly ; remove bacon, and dust with flour; brown quickly. Dish each bird on buttered toast; garnish the dish with watercresses, and serve at once with a rich brown gravy and brown bread crumbs (page 63). No. 94. ROAST PHEASANT. Draw the pheasant, remove the craw, and cut the neck off close to the breast, leaving sufficient skin to cover it; singe it, dip the feet in scalding hot water, remove the skin and claws. To truss it, push the legs well up, pass a skewer through the pinion, the top of the leg, through the body of the fowl, catching the leg and pinion on the other side; tie the legs close together, pass a small skewer through the pinions on the back of the bird, catching the skin of the neck. Tie over the breast some fat bacon, and roast or bake 30 or 40 minutes, basting it thoroughly. Just before it is finished remove the bacon, rub over with butter, and dust with59 flour, brown quickly, dish on buttered toast, and garnish with watercress. Serve with brown gravy, which may be made from the trimmings from the pheasant boiled down, a little glaze, and a dust of flour. Also serve with it brown bread crumbs (page 63) and bread sauce (page 115). No. 95. ROAST PARTRIDGES, Draw and truss in the same way as pheasants. Covei the breasts with fat bacon, and roast or bake 20 minutes, basting thoroughly; just before they are done remove the bacon, rub over with butter, and dust with flour; brown quickly. Serve on toast, with brown gravy, made from the trimmings, stewed, thickened slightly wdth flour and a little glaze. Grarnish with cresses. Serve bread sauce (page 115) with them. No. 96. ROAST PLOVER. Pluck and truss the plover, but do not draw them; cover with bacon, and bake or roast 20 minutes; just before they are finished, remove the bacon, rub over with butter, and dust with flour; brown quickly; when roast- ing place underneath some toasted bread to absorb the drippings ; dish the birds on these, garnishing the dish with cresses and lemons. Serve with them a rich browu gravy, containing a little claret and lemon juice.60 No. 97. PIGEONS (Roasted), Pluck, singe, draw, and truss the pigeons, leaving or the feet, which must be scalded and skinned ; truss by passing a thin skewer through the pinion, the top part of the leg, through the body, catching the leg and pinion on the opposite side. Cover with fat bacon, and roast 30 minutes. A few minutes before they are done remove the bacon and baste with butter, dust with flour, and brown quickly. Dish with a good brown gravy round, or on buttered toast garnished with watercresses, and the gravy in a tureen. Bread sauce may be served with these. No. 98. BORDEAUX PIGEONS. Prepare, roast, and serve as above. No. 99. SNIPE (Roast). Pluck, truss, but do not draw the snipe; tie over each a piece of fat bacon, and thread several on a skewer, and roast 15 minutes. Remove bacon, cover with butter, and brown quickly. While roasting put some small pieces of toast under to absorb the dripping. Dish one bird on each piece of bread, garnish with cresses, and serve with them a rich brown gravy.61 No. 100. WOODCOCK (Roasted). Pick, singe, and truss the woodcock, but do not draw them; cover with bacon, and roast 20 minutes. Remove the bacon just before they are finished, cover with butter, and dust with flour; brown quickly. While roasting put some toasted bread underneath to catch the dripping, and on this serve the woodcock; garnish with cresses, and serve with them some rich brown gravy. No. 101. QUAILS (Roasted). Prepare as pheasants, and roast 15 minutes ; serve on fried bread, with brown gravy and brown crumbs. No. 102. GRILLED GAME. Any of the foregoing birds may be divided in half, seasoned with salt and pepper, rubbed over thickly with butter, placed under a gas grill (which must be quite red hot), and grilled from 10 to 20 minutes, according to size of bird, or placed over a bright red fire. Just before serving, brush over with butter, and sprinkle with some golden brown bread crumbs. Serve with them, in a tureen, a rich brown gravy, and bread sauce, if liked. No. 103. ROAST HAUNCH OF VENISON. Take out the sinews, and remove the dark skin ; cover with buttered paper, then make a paste of flour and water and cover with that; on top then tie another piece62 of buttered paper to keep the paste in position; roast in front of a brisk fire, or bake in the oven from four to five hours, according to size. About 15 minutes before dishing remove the papers and paste, baste well with butter, dust with flour, and brown quickly. Dish with a little rich brown gravy round, and remainder in a tureen ; serve red currrant jelly with it. No. 104. RAISED GAME PIE. 1 quart of aspic jelly 2 partridges or four pigeons \ lb. veal ^ lb. fresh pork ^ lb. lean ham 2 hard-boiled eggs 8 button mushrooms or truffles Pepper, salt, and nutmeg FOR PASTE. | lb. flour I 3 07,. butter 1 egg I ^ teaspoonful salt Rub the butter into the flour, add the salt, the egg, and enough water to mix into a stiffish paste ; roll out ^ inch thick ; butter thoroughly a No. 1 pie mould, and carefully line it with the paste; trim the edges roughly. Mince the veal and pork, and season well with salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg; put a good layer of this round the sides and bottom of the mould: bone and divide the birds into four, season well, and fill the centre with them, well mixed with the ham cut in strips, the mushrooms and hard-boiled eggs cut up. Pile this as high as possible in the centre, and cover with a layer of the minced veal and pork. Roll out the remainder of the paste and cover the top, wetting and sealing the edges firmly. Then roll out again the trimming, about63 £ inch thick, and cut out a sufficient number of leaves to cover the top thickly; make a hole in the centre, form a rose with the paste, and insert it. Bake the pie in a moderate oven for half-an-hour, or until a nice fawn colour; then let it remain in a cool oven 1J hours longer. It will require about two hours to bake it through. Put the bones from the birds into a saucepan with one pint of cold water, a little salt and pepper, and simmer slowly hours; strain the liquid, remove the fat, add half-pint of aspic jelly, and boil until reduced to one-half. Allow this to get cold and firm. When the pie is quite cold remove the mould and the rose at the top; put the gravy from the bones into a forcing bag with a tube and force through the hole all over the top of the pie, so as to fill it, as the meat will shrink; replace the rose, and dish the pie, and garnish it prettily with chopped aspic jelly, cut leaves, minced parsley, lobster coral, and hard-boiled yolk of egg passed through a sieve. The top of the pie maybe painted over with a little cold but liquid jelly, then ornamented with a little jelly put into a forcing bag with a rose pipe. This pie may also be made with veal or pork. No. 104a. BROWN CRUMBS. Put some white crumbs into the oven, and, when a nice gold, put into a pan with a good piece of butter, a dust of salt and pepper ; shake well, then serve.64 PUDDINGS N o. 105. ARPLEY PUDDING. 1 lb. apples £ lb. vugar 2 eggs 3 oz. bread crumbs 1£ oz. of suet 5 pint milk 2 or 3 cloves Short paste A little nutmeg Make a short paste of 6 oz. of flour (page 105), roll out as thinly as possible, and with this line a pie dish, which must be greased at the sides, and wetted on the very edge, to prevent the pastry from slipping inside; ornament the edge with cut leaves. Meanwhile peel, core, and cut in slices the apples; put them into an enamelled pan, with two tablespoonfuls of water, and two cloves, stew gently until soft; rub the pulp through a wire sieve, and sweeten; mix with the bread crumbs the suet finely minced, one tablespoonful of sugar, and a little grated nutmeg. Put a layer of crumbs, then a layer of apple, in the dish, continuing this until the dish is filled within one inch of the top; bake in a moderate oven half-an-hour. Beat up the eggs, add to them the milk (boiling), a little sugar, and a few drops of essence of vanilla. Put the pan containing the custard into a pan of boiling water, and stir until it thickens; pour this on the top of the pudding, and bake very gently 10 or 15 minutes, or until the custard is set. Lift carefully out of the dish, and serve plain, hot or cold; or cream or custard sauce may be served with it.65 No. 106. 2 oz. flour 2 oz. butter \ teaspoonful of ginger £ pint cream BRANDY SNAPS A LA CREME. 2 oz. Demerara sugar 2 oz. golden syrup £ teaspoonful lemon juic® \ teaspoonsful vanilla Put the butter, sugar, syrup, and ginger into a sauce- pan, heat it gently until the butter is melted, then sift in the flour, and add the lemon juice. Wax a baking pan, and pour into rounds, at a good distance apart, one dessert-spoonful of the mixture. Bake in a slow oven a deep golden brown; lift out of the oven, and just as they are commencing to set lift off with a knife, and quickly roll round a slipper mould, with the rough side out; when set, remove the mould. Whip up the cream, add a little sugar and the vanilla, fill part up with white cream, and the remainder may be coloured pink ; serve at once. Dissolve the gelatine in ^ pint of milk, mix the corn flour with the remainder cold, pour milk and gelatine to corn flour, add sugar and flavouring, boil 5 minutes, strain to yolks of eggs. Put at the bottom of some cherries; fill with the mixture; when quite cold dip in warm water and turn out. Serve with cold raspberry sauce, for which take 2 tablespoonfuls of old raspberry jam, sugar and water, boil 10 minutes, strain and use. No. 107. CRYSTAL PALACE PUDDING. 2 large teaspoonfuls corn flour | pint milk ^ oz. gelatine 2 oz. sugar Yolks of 2 eggs ^ teaspoonful vanilla A little angelica and candied cherries small dariole moulds some of the angelica and candied66 No. 108. \ PUDDING A LA CONCORDE. 6 oz. finely-minced suet 4 oz. apricot jam 3 oz. candied cherries 2 oz. sugar Grated rind of an orange 1 glass of sherry 4 oz. flour 2 oz. minced apple 3 oz. mixed peel, finely minced £ teaspoonful cinnamon 3 small eggs £ pint cream or milk Put all the dry ingredients into a basin, beat up the eggs, add the cream and wine, and with this mix the pudding; butter a fancy mould, and dust with sugar ; put in the mixture, cover with buttered paper, and stand in a pan of boiling water, allowing the water to come within an inch of the top of the mould, and steam gently 2\ to 3 hours. Turn out and serve with German egg sauce (page 117). The pudding mould should not be quite filled. Turn into a dish and serve with custard sauce flavoured with vanilla or any pretty coloured fruit puree. 2 oz. grated chocolate Mix the corn flour and chocolate with a little cold milk, boil the remainder with the sugar and pour over the corn flour and chocolate, return to saucepan, and boil gently ten minutes; add vanilla, and pour into a wetted mould, or small moulds if preferred. When cold, turn out. A border mould is pretty with whipped cream in the centre, or it may be served with custard sauce. No. 109. CHOCOLATE PUDDING (Cold). 2 oz. corn flour f pint milk 2 oz. loaf sugar A few drops of vanilla67 No. no. CUTLETS EN SURPRISE. 2 tablespoonfuls raspberry jam 3 oz. butter A little candied angelica 3 oz. flour 3 oz. castor sugar 2 tablespoonfuls of Demerara 3 tablespoonfuls of water 2 eggs sugar Beat the castor sugar and butter to a cream; then add the eggs (beaten), the flour and cocoanut; beat thoroughly. Butter some small cutlet moulds, dust them with sugar, then with flour, and nearly fill with the mixture. Bake 15 minutes in a slow oven, turn out, and, when cool, stick in the thin end of each about one inch of angelica, to represent the cutlet bone; dish in a circle round a glass or silver dish ; boil the Demerara sugar, jam, and water 10 minutes, rub through a hair sieve, and, when cold, pour round the cutlets. Half-a-pint of double cream may be whipped stiff, flavoured with sugar and vanilla, and piled in the centre. £ pint milk Warm the milk with the butter, pour over the cocoa- nut and 1 tablespoonful of sugar, allow this to stand half No. 111. * PUDDING A LA DUCHESSE. 3 oz. desiccated cocoanut 1 oz. butter 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar ^ teaspoonful vanilla essence Some short or puff pastry 3 eggs Cutlet Moulds, 2s. per dozen, by post 2s. 3d., from H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street, Warrington.68 an hour, then add the yolks (beaten) and vanilla. Roll out the pastry and line a small pie dish, which must be buttered at the bottom and sides, and the edges wetted to prevent the pastry slipping inside. Ornament the edge with cut leaves, pour in the cocoanut, and bake half an hour, or until set. Whip up the whites of the eggs, with a dust of salt, until quite stiff, then stir in lightly two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar; pile on the pudding, and sprinkle with cocoanut; put in a slow oven until set. Serve hot or cold. No. 112. GINGER PUDDING. 3 oz. flour 3 oz. minced suet 3 oz. bread crumbs 3 oz. sugar £ lb. preserved ginger 3 eggs A little milk, if required A pinch of salt £ teaspoonful grated ginger | teaspoonful carbonate of soda Put all the ingredients into a basin, with the ginger cut up into dice, mix with the eggs (beaten), pour into a mould thickly buttered and dusted with sugar, it must not fill the mould within an inch, cover with buttered paper, stand in a saucepan of boiling water, allowing the water to come within an inch of the top; steam 2 hours. Dish, and serve with white sauce, flavoured with ginger syrup, and a little ginger cut up in dice.69 No. 113. GATEAUX OF PEACHES. \ tin of peaches \ teaspoonful cochineal 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla 1 oz. pistachio nuts 3 eggs 3 oz. flour 3 oz. sugar 1^ oz. butter A little water icing Put the eggs and the sugar into a basin, place this over a pan of boiling water and whip briskly, until warm; remove the basin, and continue the whipping until the mixture is almost stiff enough to lift up with the whisk. Eub the peaches through a fine sieve and add 2 tablespoonfuls of the puree to the mixture, the cochineal, 1 teaspoonful of vanilla, and the flour passed through the sieve. Stir this in very lightly. Have a plain mould prepared, by first brushing it over with dissolved butter, then throw into it some castor sugar ; shake the mould so as to coat it entirely; then turn it over and knock out the loose sugar; then dust in the same way with flour. Pour in the mixture, and pin round the outside a band of buttered paper; bake for about 30 minutes in a slow oven; then remove from the mould, and when cold cut in slices about 1 inch thick, spread thickly with the remainder of the puree, place the rounds together again, and pour over the water icing, prepared as follows :—6 oz. icing sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls liquid from the peaches, and a little vanilla, stir until warm and liquid, then pour over the cake, and quickly dust with the pistachios blanched,70 finely chopped, and dried. Serve as it is as a cake, or as a sweet serve round the remainder of a tin of peaches, and a little whipped cream here and there round the base. No. 114. LLANDUDNO PUDDING. 3 eggs 4 tablespoonfuls of flour A little grated lemon rind or essence 3 tablespoonfuls of jam A few drops of cochineal 1£ pints milk 2 oz. sugar Some stale sponge cake Mix the flour with the milk and 2oz. of sugar, boil five minutes, then add yolks of eggs and flavouring; stir until thick. Put a layer of sponge cake at the bottom of a glass dish, then a layer of jam ; pour over custard; allow this to cool, whip up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add two table-spoonfuls of red jam, or jelly and cochineal; pour over pudding and serve. No. 115. LEMON PUDDING. £ lb. finely-minced suet 2 tablespoonfuls sugar 2 eggs Pinch of salt £ lb. flour | lb. bread crumbs Rind of 3 lemons Put the suet, bread crumbs, flour, sugar, salt, and the rind of the lemons into a basin, and mix together with the eggs (beaten). To prepare the lemons, cut off the yellow rind as thinly as possible, and mince finely. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould, and cover with buttered paper ; stand it in a saucepan of boiling water, and steam for two hours. Turn out, and serve with a lemon sauce (page 118).71 No. 116. LEMON CHEESE ROLL. Prepare a rich short pastry of half-a-pound of flour (page 115), and flavour it with a little grated lemon rind;• roll it out a quarter of an inch thick, and spread over it some lemon cheese (page 72). Roll it up, and seal well together; place on a greased baking sheet, and bake about an hour. Dish on a lace paper, and dust over with sugar ; serve hot or cold. 3 oz. of flour Put the eggs, sugar, and grated lemon rind into a basin, stand it over a pan of boiling water, and whip until warm ; then remove, and continue whipping until quite stiff; then add the flour, mixed with the baking powder, and pass it through a fine wire sieve alternately with the butter dissolved in a pan, taking care to stir it in very gently, but on no account beat it. Pour into three shallow round tins, about 8^ inches in diameter, first brushed over with a little melted butter; then dust with castor sugar, then with flour; bake eight to ten minutes in a slow oven. Before turning out, allow the tins to stand two or three minutes. When cool, spread each thickly over with the lemon cheese (page 72); lay the rounds together, divide into eight or twelve pieces, dish on a lace paper, dust with castor sugar, and serve. No. 117. LEMON CHEESE SANDWICH. 3 eggs 1^ oz. of butter 3 oz. castor sugar Lemon cheese mixture Grated rind of 1 lemon § teaspoonful of baking powder72 No. 118. LEMON CHEESES. 6 oz. castor sugar I Grated rind and juice of Yolks of 4 eggs J large lemon White of 1 egg | 2 oz. of butter Beat up the eggs, and put them into a saucepan with all the above ingredients, and stir over a gentle heat until it thickens ; pour on to a plate, and when cool use. This may be put into jars and kept until required. No. 119. ORANGE PUDDING. Grated rind and juice of 2 oranges £ pint milk 4 oz. castor sugar 2 oz. crushed ratafias 3 eggs 1 oz. butter A few pistachios Some puff or short pastry Line and ornament a small pie dish with short or puff pastry. Beat the butter and 2 oz. of the sugar to a cream, add the biscuit crumbs and the yolks and milk (beaten), lastly stir in the grated rind of the oranges and the juice. Pour quickly into the pie dish, and bake half-an-hour, or until set. Whip up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, stir in lightly the sugar, pile on top of the pudding in the centre, sprinkle with the pistachio nuts, blanched and minced; put back into the oven, very gently heated, for half-an-hour.73 No. 120. PENMAENMAWR PUDDING. 5 oz. stale bread 3 oz. candied cherries 3 eggs £ pint milk 3 oz. castor sugar 1 oz. minced pistachios 1 oz. minced almonds 1 glass sherry Grated rind of 1 lemon Cut the bread up into dice about one-third of an inch square, pour over the sherry and allow it to soak for an hour covered; then add the cherries cut in half, grated lemon rind, almonds, sugar, and half the pistachios. Beat up the eggs, add to them the milk (boiling), pour over bread, &c. Butter a fancy mould thickly, throw into it the remainder of the minced pistachios, shake them well round the mould, pour in the mixture, which should come within an inch of the top of the mould, cover with buttered paper, and serve with German sauce (page 117), which maybe coloured a rich red with cochineal. No. 121. PUDDING A LA ROYAL. 6 oz. bread crumbs 1 pint of double cream | tin of apricots 2 tablespoonfuls browned bread crumbs 3 oz. castor sugar A little vanilla 3 eggs A dust of salt Whip the cream until stiff, then add the yolks of the eggs, salt, sugar, and vanilla rind, and lastly add the whites of the eggs whipped to a stiff froth; butter a plain mould thickly and dust it with the brown bread74 crumbs, put a layer of the white bread crumbs, then a layer of the apricots, and continue this until the mould is full; put into a moderate oven, and bake 30 minutes. Serve with a puree of apricots round, or whipped cream, or custard flavoured with vanilla. No. 122. ST. CLAIRE PUDDING. £ pint orange or lemon jelly 1 pint milk or cream 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs A few drops cochineal 2 oz. Savoy biscuit crumbs A little vanilla £ pint water 1 oz. gelatine A little gold leaf 2 oz. sugar 2 oz. finely minced almonds Beat up the eggs and add the milk when boiling, put back into pan and stand in a pan of boiling water and stir until it coats the spoon; dissolve the gelatine in the water, add this to the custard, also the sugar and vanilla; divide the custard and colour one half with cochineal, pour about £ inch of each on to a wetted plate, and when set stamp out in rounds about the size of a shilling. Line a plain mould with jelly, then arrange the rounds of custard at the bottom and sides of the mould alternately, sprinkling over a little more jelly to keep them in shape. Then blow in a little gold leaf so that it will show between the rounds of jelly, allow this to get quite set; add to the remainder of the red custard the biscuit crumbs, and pour into the mould; allow this to set. Add the almonds to the yellow custard,75 and pour this on the top, and when this is set dip the mould in warm water and turn out quickly. Serve round a cold custard sauce, flavoured with vanilla or whipped cream. These may be coloured with cochineal or left natural, according to taste. No. 123. TAPIOCA PUDDING. 2 oz. tapioca 3 eggs 1 oz. butter 1 pint milk 2 oz. sugar A little grated lemon rind A dust of salt Put the tapioca into a saucepan, with the salt and milk; simmer slowly 20 minutes to half-an-hour; add the sugar, lemon rind, yolks of eggs, and one white, also the butter; pour into a buttered dish, and bake in a moderate oven about half-an-hour, or until set. Whip up the whites of egg, and sweeten with one tablespoon- ful of sugar; spread on the top of pudding, and make it rough with a fork, dust with sugar, and put back into ' the oven 15 minutes. Serve with cream. No. 124. VANILLA PUDDING. 2 oz. ratafias £ pint cream 1 teaspoonful vanilla 1 tablespoonful sugar A little apricot jam £ glass sherry Yolks of 4 eggs Whites of 2 eggs Some candied cherries and angelica Butter a plain mould, and decorate it with the cherries and angelica, sprinkle the ratafias with the sherry, and76 spread them with a little apricot jam; cover the mould with these. Beat up the eggs, add the cream, sugar, and vanilla ; pour into the mould, cover with buttered paper, and stand in a pan of boiling water, allowing the water to come within the top of the mould. Simmer slowly one hour, or until set, but be sure it does not boil quickly, or it will become watery. Before turning out, allow it to stand two or three minutes to shrink. No. 125. VICTORIA TARTS. 2 oz. butter 2 oz. castor sugar 2 oz. Savoy or sponge crumbs 1 egg ^ of a grated lemon rind Some water icing (page 104) £ oz. minced pistachio nuts Some scraps of short paste Butter some Victoria tartlet moulds, and line with the paste, which must be rolled as thinly as possible, and well pressed into the moulds. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then add the crumbs, grated lemon rind, and egg (well beaten); mix thoroughly, and fill the moulds within £ inch of the top; bake about 20 minutes, or until firm. Remove from the tins, and pour -over a little white water icing made with £ lb. sugar; sprinkle at once, while the icing is liquid, with the pistachios or any candied fruits. Serve.77 Warrington. No. 126. MINCE PIES. 1 lb. currants 1 lb. raisins 1 Jb. candied orange, lemon, and citron peel 1 lb. of suet 1 lb. apples 1 lb. Demerara sugar 1 oz. mixed spice Grated rind of 3 lemons Grated rind of 3 oranges £ pint of brandy J pint sherry 1 lb. sultanas £ lb. finely minced almonds The juice of 2 lemons and juice of two oranges Stone and mince the raisins, also the suet, apples, candied peel, almonds, and sultanas ; mix these with the currants, sugar, spice, lemon and orange rind, brandy, sherry, and the juice of oranges and lemons. This mixture should be put in jars, covered, and kept at least three weeks—the longer the better. For about one dozen pies prepare some puff pastry (page 104) of £ lb. flour, roll out a portion about J inch thick, and line some patty tins with it; put in the centre 1 teaspoonful of the mincemeat; roll out the remainder, about £ inch thick, and cut in rounds the size of the top of the pies, wet the edges of the underneath, and place one round on the top of each. Brush over with the egg, and bake in a hot oven 15 minutes. Fine Leaf G-elatine, in lib. boxes, 2s. 6d., by post 2s. 9d., from H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street,78 Warrington. JELLIES & CREAMS. o No. 127. CIDER JELLY. i pint water 1 sliced apple 1 inch cinnamon Whites and shells of 2 eggs 1 pint cider 4 oz. sugar 1 oz. leaf gelatine Put all the ingredients into a saucepan except the cider; beat up the eggs slightly with a little water; set the pan over a gentle heat, and stir until boiling. Allow the thick, white scum to rise to the top of the pan, cover, and allow to stand ten minutes ; warm the cider, and add to the jelly; pass one quart of boiling water through the jelly bag, then the jelly; pour into a mould, and, when set, garnish with a puree of apples and whipped cream, sweetened and flavoured to taste; or the jelly may be put into a border mould with the puree in the centre, and covered with cream. No. 128. PUREE OF APPLES. 1 lb. apples | 1 clove 3 oz. sugar Peel and core the apples and cut in thin slices ; put into an enamelled pan, with the cloves, sugar, and a little water, boil until tender; rub through a wire sieve, and use. Fine Leaf G-elattne, in lib. boxes, 2s. 6d., by post 2s. 9d., from H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street,79 Warrington. No. 129. JELLY A LA DUCHESSE. 1 quart water with the lemon juice Rind of 4 lemons ^ lb. lump sugar Whites and shells of 3 eggs 2 inches cinnamon stick Juice of 6 lemons 1^ oz. gelatine 4 cloyes Cut off the yellow rind of the lemon as thick as possible; crush the shells of the eggs, and beat them with the whites and a little water; put all the ingre- dients into a saucepan, stir until it boils ; cover the saucepan, and allow it to stand 10 minutes. Pass through the jelly bag a quart of hot water, then the jelly. Put into a mould one inch of the jelly, and ornament with candied fruits, and allow to set; then take three or four tablespoonfuls of jelly and whip until a white froth, pour into the mould, and when set pour on the top about one inch of the jelly, coloured a pretty red with cochineal; allow this to set, and fill the mould with the natural jelly. When quite firm, dip in warm water, and turn out very quickly, or the colours will run and spoil the jelly. Fine Leaf G-elatine, in lib. boxes, 2s. 6d., by post 2s. 9d., from H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street,80 Warrington. No. 130. MARASCHINO JELLY. 1 pint water 3 oz. lump sugar 1 oz. gelatine £ pint maraschino Juice of 3 lemons Whites and shells of 3 eggs A little silver leaf for garnish- ing Put all ingredients except the maraschino and silver leaf into a saucepan, first crushing the shells of the eggs and beating th em with a little of the water ; put the pan over a gentle heat, and stir it until it comes to the boil, let it boil up to the top of the saucepan, cover the pan, draw it on one side and allow it to stand 10 minutes; pass through the jelly bag plenty of hot water to ensure it being perfectly clean ; warm the maraschino, add to the jelly and pass it through the bag two or three times until quite clear. Put an inch of jelly into the mould, break up a very little silver leaf and sprinkle into the jelly ; when set pour in another inch of cold jelly (but not set), and sprinkle in a little more leaf, allow this to set, then take about three tablespoonfuls of the jelly and whip it until it is a white froth; add a little of the leaf and pour into the mould; when set fill Fine Leaf Geiatine, in lib. boxes, 2s. 6d., by post 2s. 9d., from H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street,81 the mould with clear jelly and add a little more leaf. When quite set dip in warm water and turn out quickly. If a tall mould, two layers of whipped jelly may be used. No. 131. POMEGRANATE JELLY. 1 pint syrup from the pomegranate seeds ^ pint water Juice of 2 lemons Rind of 1 lemon 4 oz. lump sugar Whites and shells of 3 eggs 1£ oz. gelatine A few drops of cochineal Take the seeds from as many pomegranates as will yield 1 pint syrup, put into a pan with all the above ingredients, first slightly beating the eggs with a little of the water; stand over a gentle heat, whisk until it boils, and when the scum will rise to the top remove the whisk, cover the pan, and allow it to stand 10 minutes. Pass a quart of boiling water through the jelly bag to warm it, then the jelly; when clear, pour into a copper mould, set aside until firm, then dip in warm water and turn out quickly. Fine Leaf G-elatine from H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street, Warrington, 2s. 6d. per lb., per post 2s. 9d. o82 H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street, Warrington. No. 132. PERRY JELLY. £ pint water 1 pint perry 3 oz. sugar The juice and rind of 1 lemon White and shell of 1 egg 1 oz. leaf gelatine Beat up the eggs with a little water, and put, with all the ingredients except the perry, into a saucepan, stir until it boils, allow the scum to rise to the top, cover the pan, and let it stand 10 minutes ; warm the perry and add to jelly, pour 1 quart of hot water through the jelly bag, then the jelly; put one inch into a mould, and when nearly set put in half a stewed pear. Then fill the mould; more pears may be added if liked. When cold turn out and garnish with stewed pears. No. 133. STEWED PEARS. i lb, lump sugar I A few drops of cochineal £ pint of water Boil the water and sugar together 10 minutes. Then colour a deep red with cochineal. Peel and core the pears, cut in half, drop into the syrup, and stew gently until soft. When cold use. No. 134. PUNCH JELLY. 4 pint Irish whisky 6 oz. lump sugar 1 oz. leaf gelatine Whites and shells of 2 eggs 1 pint of water Rinds of 3 lemons Juice of 2 lemons Put all the ingredients except the whisky into a sauce- pan, cutting off the yellow part of the rind as finely as Fink Leap Gelatine, in lib. boxes, 2s. 6d., by post 2s. 9d., from83 H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street, Warrington. possible, stir until it boils, cover the pan and allow it to stand 10 minutes; pass through the jelly bag one quart of boiling water, then the jelly and the whisky slightly warmed; pour one inch of the jelly into a mould and when nearly set garnish with some small quarters of peeled and cut lemon; when set pour in another inch of cold jelly and garnish with the lemon, continue this until the mould is full. When firm dip in warm water and turn out quickly No. 135. STRAWBERRY JELLY. 1 pint of strawberries Juice of 2 lemons Rind of 1 lemon 1£ oz. gelatine 1 pint of water £ lb. sugar A few drops cochineal Whites and shells of 3 eggs Boil the water and sugar to a syrup and pour over the strawberries, allow this to stand half-an-hour; then rub through a fine hair sieve, put the syrup into a pan which should measure about one quart with the lemon juice ; beat the eggs with a little of the syrup, and add all the above ingredients ; whip gently until it comes to the boil, remove the whisk, cover the pan and allow it to stand 10 minutes; pass a quart of boiling water through the bag, then the jelly. Pour about half an Fine Leaf Gelatine, in lib. boxes, 2s. 6d., by post, 2s. 9d., from84 H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street, YVarringtom inch of jelly into a mould and decorate with straw- berries ; when set and the remainder of the jelly cold, fill up the mould. When quite firm dip in warm water and turn out quickly. Almost any fruit jelly may be prepared as above. No. 136. LEMON MOULD. 2 oz. of arrowroot Eind of 1 lemon 1 pint of boiling water 6 oz. sugar Juice of 2 lemons 2 eggs Take off the yellow part of the lemon, and put it into a pan with the pint of water, and, when boiling, pour over the arrowroot, which should be moistened with a little cold water; add the sugar and lemon juice; boil slowly 10 minutes, pour over the eggs (beaten), return to the pan, and stir over a gentle heat, or stand the pan in another containing some boiling water for a few minutes, or until it thickens. Pour into a wetted china mould, and, when set, turn out. No. 137. APRICOT CREAM. £ dozen fresh apricots, or £ tin 4 oz. sugar if fresh; if tinned, 2 oz. ^ pint of water if fresh; if tinned fruit, pint of the syrup £ pint of double cream 1 oz. of gelatine Juice of 1 lemon If the fruit is fresh, boil the sugar and water to a syrup; split the apricots and add to syrup and boil until tender, then add the lemon juice and gelatine; when Fine Leaf Gelatine, in lib. boxes, 2s. 6d., by post 2s. 9d., from85 H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street, Warrington. dissolved rub the whole through a fine hair sieve; whip the cream until stiff, then stir in the puree; allow this to stand until cold, but not set, stirring occasionally; then pour into a china mould wetted. When set turn out; if inclined to stick, dip in warm water. Any fruit cream may be prepared as above, varying the amount of sugar according to the fruit. No. 138. CHOCOLATE CREAM. 4 oz. grated chocolate 3 oz. castor sugar Yolks of 4 eggs 1 pint of cream £ oz. gelatine Dissolve the gelatine in the cream, or milk may be used, add to the yolks of eggs (beaten), also the sugar and chocolate, put back in the pan and stand in another pan of boiling water, stir until it thickens. Beat up the remaining half of the cream until stiff, then add the custard, passing it through a fine sieve. Stir occasionally until cold, then pour into a china mould, and when firm turn out. No. 139. CHARTREUSE OF ORANGES, 6 oranges 2 oz. sugar, | pint of cream ^ oz. leaf gelatine 2 tablespoonfuls of water | pint of orange jelly Peel and quarter four of the oranges, divide each quarter lengthwise, dip them in a little of the orange jelly ; arrange these in a star pattern at the bottom of a plain mould, pour over a little jelly, and when set Fine Leaf Gelatine, in lib. boxes, 2s. 6d., by post 2s. 9d., from86 II. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street, Warrington. arrange the half-quarters of the orange round the side of the mould, dipping each into the jelly first and putting the cut side to the mould. Meanwhile, put the juice of two oranges and the grated rind into a saucepan with the water, gelatine, and sugar, allow this to dissolve; beat up the cream until nearly stiff, then strain the gelatine, &c., to it, stir well, and when cold, but not set, pour into the prepared mould. When firm dip in warm water, and turn out quickly on a lace paper in a glass dish; or, if liked, it may be garnished with trifle cream, chopped pistachios, or orange peel. No. 140. ITALIAN CREAM. £ pint sherry I |pint cream ^ oz. gelatine | 2 oz. sugar Dissolve the gelatine and the sugar in the sherry; . whip up the cream until stiff, strain the sherry to it, and allow to stand until cold, stirring occasionally. Pour into a wetted china mould, and when set turn out. No. 141. \ \ RICE A ^ lb. rice | pint thick cream 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of water £ pint of any kind of jelly A dust of salt LA CREME. % oz. leaf gelatine 2 tablespoonfuls castor sugar ^ teaspoonful of vanilla 1 pint milk Wash the rice thoroughly, put into a saucepan with the milk; stand this pan in another containing a few inches of water; boil this until the rice is tender and Fine Leap Gelatine, in lib. boxes, 2s. 6d., by post 2s. 9d., from87 H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street, Warrington. the milk absorbed ; meanwhile dissolve the gelatine in' the water over a gentle heat, add this to the rice, also the sugar and flavouring. Whip stiff a quarter of a pint of thick cream, and add also, and allow to get cool, but not set. Pour half-an-inch of the jelly into a mould, and ornament with fruits, or it maybe coloured with cochineal; when set pour in the rice, which must be cold, but not set. When firm, dip in warm water, and turn out; garnish with piles of whipped or trifle cream, flavoured with sugar and vanilla; or the above may be put into a border mould, and the centre filled with whipped or trifle cream, or any kind of cold stewed fruit may be served with this dish. NTM2. PISTACHIO CREAM. 4 oz. pistachio kernels 2 oz. sugar 1 pint cream Juice of 1 lemon oz. gelatine Drop the kernels into boiling water for a few minutes, containing a dust of carbonate of soda; remove the skins, and mince very finely; dissolve the gelatine and sugar in the lemon juice and 1 tablespoonful of watei, whip up the cream until stiff, strain in the gelatine and lemon juice, add also 3J oz. of the pistachio kernels, allow this to stand until nearly set, stirring occasionally ; pour into a wetted china mould, when quite firm turn out and dust all over with the remainder of the pistachio kernels. Fine Leap Gelatine, in lib. boxes, 2s. 6d., by post 2s. 9d., from88 No. 143. TAPIOCA CREAM. 2 025. tapioca | pint milk Rind of 1 lemon 2 tablespoonfuls sugar Yolks of 2 eggs 5 pint of cream Soak the tapioca in cold milk for 2 hours, then boil it for about 5 minutes with the rind of the lemon; add the sugar; beat up the yolks of the eggs, and pour over the tapioca ; stir occasionally until cold. Put some jam at the bottom of a glass dish, pour over the tapioca; whip up the cream until stiff, flavour with lemon and sugar, and spread roughly on the top. ^lb. sugar Cut some slices of stale bread about £ inch thick, stamp out the size of a shilling; melt 2 oz. of butter and pour into a pan, leaving the sediment; allow this to get quite hot, then fry the bread a light gold ; butter thickly a plain mould, and line it with the rounds of bread. Peel and core the apples, and see you have the full pound ; stew with the sugar water a little cinnamon and the cloves; when soft stir in the yolks of the eggs, pour into the mould, and cover with a round of bread fried and cut just the size of the top of the mould. Bake in a moderate oven 30 to 40 minutes. Turn out and serve cream with it. Fine Leaf Gelatine, in lib. boxes, 2s. 6d., by post 2s. 9d., from H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street, Warrington. No. 144. APPLE CHARLOTTE. Some rounds of bread the size of a A little cinnamon Yolks of 2 eggs 2 tablespoonfuls water 2 cloves shilling 3 oz. butter 1 lb. apples89 No. 145 BLANC MANGE. 1 oz. corn flour 2 oz. crushed almonds 1 pint cream or milk 2 oz. sugar A few drops of almond essence Mix the corn flour with a little of the cold cream or milk, pour over the remainder, boiling; put back in the pan with the sugar, and boil gently five minutes; when nearly cold, stir in the almonds and essence. Pour into a china mould, and when quite firm, turn out. 1 onion, sliced Put all the ingredients into a saucepan, slightly beating the eggs with a little of the stock ; stir until it boils; remove the whisk, and allow the froth to boil up to the top of the saucepan; cover and allow to stand 10 minutes to clear; then pour through the jelly bag, first pouring through one quart of boiling water to warm and cleanse the bag. Use for savoury garnish, &c. Fine Leap Gelatine, in lib. boxes, 2s. 6d., by post, 2s. 9d., from H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street, Warrington. No. 146. ASPIC JELLY. 1 quart stock Whites and shells of 3 eggs 1 dessertspoonful salt 1 tablespoonful vinegar 2 oz. leaf gelatine Juice and rind of 1 lemon \ teaspoonful pepper 4 cloves90 SOUFFLES, OMELETTES, TRIFLES, AND MERANGUES. 1| oz. potato flour 1 oz. butter 3 eggs A dust of salt No. 147. SNOW SOUFFLE. 2£ oz. sugar \ pint of cream or milk £ teaspoonful yanilla Melt the butter, add the flour, and stir until quite smooth, then add the milk, sugar, and vanilla; allow it to boil five minutes, and beat it until quite smooth; then add the yolk, put on one side, add a little salt to the whites, and whip them until they are quite a stiff froth; stir lightly to the butter, &c.; pour into a buttered souffle mould or a pie dish, fasten round a band of buttered paper, and bake from 20 to 30 minutes; when done remove the paper, dust with sugar, and dish immediately. This mixture may be baked in small paper souffle cases, the cases first being oiled on the outside. No. 148. SOUFFLES (Various). Almost any kind of souffle, sweet or savoury, may be prepared in the same way as the snow souffles, by adding different flavourings.91 No. 149. SWEET OMELETTE. 2 large fresh eggs ^ teaspoonful vanilla 1 tablespoonful jam 1 dessertspoonful sugar A dust of salt 1^ oz. butter Separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs, add the sugar and vanilla to the yolks, and mix; then add a dust of salt to the whites and whip them to a very stiff froth, add these to the yolks and mix lightly together; divide the butter, and put it into each half of the omelette tin, allow this to warm, then divide the mix- ture, putting half into each half of the tin, and fry gently, until brown and set; then brown the top part by slipping it under the gas grill or in front of a bright fire; warm the jam, put on one half of the omelette, close the tin, which will fold the omelette in half, dust with castor sugar, and serve at once. An enamelled frying pan will do for the omelette, but the %new divided omelette tin is much the best. No. 150. OMELETTES (Various, Sweet or Savoury). Almost any kind of omelette may be prepared as the sweet omelette, by using other flavouring, such as putting between kidney, mushroom, or oyster to taste. * The New Divided Omelette Tin, price 2s., by post 2s. 3d., may be obtained from H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street, Warrington.92 No 151. CHILDREN’S TRIFLE. 1 pint milk 4 eggs A few drops cochineal ^ lb. Savoy biscuits or sponge cake A few minced pistachios 2 tablespoonfuls castor sugar 1 teaspoonful vanilla 2 tablespoonfuls of jam Separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs, whip up the whites to a very stiff froth, stir in very lightly a tablespoonful of sugar; put the milk into a saucepan with the vanilla, and a tablespoonful of sugar. When boiling, drop into it the whites formed into egg shape by means of two tablespoons, allow them to cook on one side, then gently turn them over—about H minutes on each side will be sufficient; lift them gently out on to a sieve to drain. When all are poached, beat up the yolks, and add half a pint of the milk in which the whites have been poached ; pour into a custard pan, and stir until the custard thickens; arrange the biscuits at the bottom of a glass dish, add a little jam; continue this until the dish is nearly full; add a few drops of cochineal to the custard, and strain over the biscuits. Arrange the egg balls round the dish and high in the centre; sprinkle with pistachios, or leave white, according to taste. If liked, the biscuits may first be sprinkled with brandy or sherry.93 No. 152. COCOANUT TRIFLES. Scraps of the cocoanut pastry left from any other dish ^ pint cream 2 tablespoonfuls desiccated cocoanut ^ pint double cream A few drops vanilla A few drops of cochineal 1 tablespoonful castor sugar Whip the cream until stiff, flavour with a few drops of vanilla, add a few drops of cochineal, the sugar, one tablespoonful desiccated cocoanut, the scraps of pastry broken up coarse; pile in the centre of a glass dish, and sprinkle with cocoanut. ; No. 153. ROYAL TRIFLE. 2 oz. ratafias 2 tablespoonfuls jam 1 egg 5 pint milk | pint double cream A little lemon juice Minced pistachio kernels Candied angelica 2 oz. Savoy biscuits ^ glass sherry t? glass brandy A few small merangues A few drops vanilla Candied fruits Lay the ratafias at the bottom of a deep glass dish, sprinkle over the brandy, put on the top of this the jam, then a layer of the Savoy biscuits sprinkled with the sherry. Then boil the milk, add to the egg (beaten), put back into the pan and stand in a pan of boiling water and stir until it thickens and coats the spoon; sweeten and add a few drops of vanilla, pour this over the biscuits. Put the cream into a bowl with 2 pints of cold water, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and a few drops of lemon juice; beat it from side to side with a whisk, and a thick white froth will be seen to rise on one94 side of the bowl, skim this off and place it on a hair sieve to drain, continue to whip and skim off the cream as long as the froth rises. Three-quarters of a pint of cream should yield a large quantity of froth. Allow it to stand on the sieve for an hour, and when whipping it be careful to whip from side to side—not round, or the froth will not rise. Pile this very high on the top of the biscuits, then decorate it with merangues (see below) and candied fruit. It is best to put the cream froth and decorations on just before it is sent to the table. No. 154. MERANGUES. Whites of 3 eggs I 4 lb. of fine castor sugar A few drops of vanilla Add to the whites of the eggs a pinch of salt and vanilla, and whip them until very stiff; then very gently stir in the sugar, put the mixture into a ^forcing bag, and force them into a baking tin (warmed and rubbed over with a little white wax) into egg shapes or small rounds, according to the shape required; place these in a slightly warmed oven for an hour or until firm; care- fully take them from the tin, and take out the soft centre from the under side, and put them back in the oven until quite dry and crisp. When required for use they may be filled with whipped cream, flavoured with vanilla, ratafia, or candied fruits; stick two together, and serve in a pile. * Forcing Tube and Bag, Is. 4d., by post Is. 6d., from H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street, Warrington.95 CAKES & PASTRY. No. 155. ALMOND CAKES. 3 oz. flour j 4 oz. butter 2 oz. ground almonds I 3 eggs 1 teaspoonful of brandy | 2 oz. roughly chopped almonds Beat the butter and sugar into a cream, then add the eggs (well beaten) alternately, with the flour sifted; beat five minutes; then add the ground almonds, and spread the mixture into a baking tin, lined with oiled or buttered paper; bake 15 minutes; remove from the oven, brush over with egg, and spread over the top the crushed almonds; put back into the oven 15 minutes, or until firm and the almonds are a pretty golden colour. When cold divide into finger lengths or diamonds, and dish in a pyramid. No. 156. CHOCOLATE CAKES. 1 large egg The weight of the egg in butter, sugar, and flour £ teaspoonful baking powder 2 tablespoonfuls finely grated chocolate ^ teaspoonful vanilla Put the butter and sugar into a basin, and beat together with a wooden spoon until creamy ; if the butter is very hard the basin may be slightly warmed; beat the egg and pass the flour through a sieve; add these alternately to the butter and sugar, beat five or ten minutes, then96 add the vanilla and baking powder. Pour into small *dariole moulds, three parts filling them, and bake 15 minutes in a slow oven. When baked allow them to stand a few minutes, and turn out. Cover each with chocolate icing (page 103). Sprinkle with minced pistachios, and when set serve. To prepare the moulds, mix 1 teaspoonful of castor sugar and 1 teaspoonful flour together, butter the moulds thickly with melted butter, then dust them with the sugar and flour. ^ lb. castor sugar Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the eggs (beaten) and the flour; beat until quite smooth and light; then add a quarter of a pound of the cocoanut. Pour this into a round cake mould, lined with buttered paper—the mixture should be about 1^- inches thick. Bake 20 to 30 minutes, lift carefully out, and remove the paper; when cold, stamp out in rounds with a plain cutter about 2 J inches in diameter; whip up the cream until stiff, flavour with vanilla and sweeten; dip the rounds in the cream, sprinkle with cocoanut, and serve. *The Darioles are 3s. 6d. per doz. ; by post, 3s. 9d.; may be obtained from H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street, Warrington. No. 157. COCOANUT BALLS. £ lb. butter 6 oz. desiccated cocoanut 2 oz. flour £ pint of double cream A few drops of vanilla 3 eggs A m'nf-.97 No. 158. CHOCOLATE ECLAIRS. Prepare mixture as for Petits Choux (page 102), put it into a ^forcing bag with a plain tube, force it on to a baking tin into finger lengths, brush over with egg, and bake for 30 minutes. When cold, split them down one side, and fill them with whipped cream, sweetened and flavoured to taste; dip each in chocolate icing(page 103), and, when set, dish in a pyramid on a lace paper. No 159. FANCHONNETTES. Prepare same paste as for Petits Choux (page 102). Put it into a ^forcing bag and plain tube, and force out into rounds about two inches in diameter, and bake half an hour; then remove the centre, and fill with a thick custard or jam. Prepare a little merangue mixture (page 94), put into a forcing tube, and force on the top, in the form of a steeple, dust with castor sugar; put back into a cool oven for an hour to set the merangue. Part of the merangue mixture may be coloured with cochineal, to make a variety. * Forcing Bag and Plain Tube, Is. 49., by post la. 6d., from H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street, Warrington. H98 No. 160. PETITE GATEAUX A L’APRICOT. 1 large egg 2 oz. castor sugar A few drops of vanilla 3 tablespoonfuls of apricot jam 3 tablespoonfuls of water £ oz. minced pistachios or almonds 2 oz. flour 2 oz. butter 3 tablespoonfuls Demerara sugar Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the egg beaten and the flour sifted; beat thoroughly 5 minutes; butter some small *dariole moulds with dissolved butter ; mix one teaspoonful of flour and one teaspoonful of sugar together, and with this dust each of the moulds, then three parts fill them with the mixture; bake 15 minutes in a slow oven. Put the jam, Demerara sugar, and water into a saucepan and boil ten minutes, or until syrupy; then put through a fine hair sieve. Turn out the gateaux and dip each in the puree, and sprinkle with the minced pistachio nuts or almonds. Dish neatly, and strain round the base of the dish the remainder of the apricot puree. Serve hot or cold. No. 161. GENOESE GATEAUX. 9 eggs 6 oz. butter \ oz. minced pistachio nuts ^ pint thick cream | pint sherry A few drops cochineal § lb. castor sugar 9 oz. flour 2 tablespoonfuls apricot jam 2 tablespoonfuls Demerara sugar 2 tablespoonfuls water Put the eggs and castor sugar into a basin, set it over a pan of hot water, and whip until warm; then *Dariole Moulds, 3s. 6d. per dozen, by post 3s. 9d., from H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street, Warrington.99 remove, and continue the whipping 20 minutes, or until the mixture is a thick froth; melt the butter slowly in a saucepan, add a little butter to the mixture, then a little flour, which must be passed through a wire sieve; continue this until the whole is added, tossing it in very lightly with a spoon; on no account must this be beaten after the butter and flour have been added. Have ready lined, with but- tered or oiled paper, four round cake moulds, 10, 7J, 6, and 4J inches in diameter, pour the mixture in equal thickness into each, bake these in a slow oven; the largest will take about half-an-hour. When baked lift carefully out of the tins and remove the papers; when cold, take four fancy round cutters, a little smaller than each cake, and cut off the outside brown ; take a small cutter, about 1J inches in diameter, and cut out the centre of each; put the two tablespoonfuls of jam, Demerara sugar, and water into a saucepan, and boil ten minutes; pass through a hair sieve, and paint over the outer edge of the largest cake with the syrup; then sprinkle with the minced pistachios; put this in the centre of a glass dish, make some small holes with a knife on the top of this, pour in a little of the sherry; continue this with each cake, placing one on the top of the other. Whip up the cream until stiff, flavour with one dessert- spoonful of castor sugar and a few drops of vanilla; colour part of it with cochineal, and put the two coloured100 creams into a *forcing bag with a rose tube; fill the centre of the gateaux with the cream, forming a rose on the very top; then ornament it with small roses to taste. The cuttings may be used for a pudding with a little jam and custard poured over, and garnished with whipped cream if liked. No. 162. SNOW CAKE. £ lb. butter | lb. potato flour A few drop3 of lemon essence 1 teaspoonful of baking powder £ lb. castor sugar Whites of 2 eggs Yolk of 1 egg Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs (beaten) alternately with the flour; beat 10 minutes; then stir in the vanilla and baking powder. Pour into a flat baking tin, which must be buttered, dusted with sugar, then with flour —the mixture should cover the tin about half an inch thick; bake in a slow oven half an hour, turn out, and, when cold, divide in finger lengths or fancy shapes. This may also be covered with any of the water icings if liked. No. 163. POUND CAKE. £ lb. flour i lb. eggs 5 lb. currants 5 lb. candied peel, mixed Grated rind of 2 lemons £ glass brandy £ lb. butter 1 lb. sugar ^ lb. sultanas 2 oz. minced almonds Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then add tho flour, passing it through a wire sieve alternately with the * Forcing Bag and Rose Tube, Is. 4d., per post Is. 6d. These may be obtained from II. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street, Warrington.101 eggs (well beaten); beat 10 minutes, then add all the above ingredients; pour into a tin lined with oiled paper, and bake in a moderate oven 2J hours. If it is put into a shallow dripping tin, then it will not require so long baking. This may be covered when cold with almond paste (page 102) and when set with white icing (page 103). Then before the icing is set cover with large crystallized sugar; set in a warm place until firm. This cake will improve if kept three weeks before icing. It is always best to ice a cake just before it is required for use. No. 164. PLUM CAKE. | lb. butter | lb. flour | lb. candied cherries ^ lb. sugar J lb. raisins | lb. sultanas £ lb. candied orange, lemon, and citron peel, mixed 4 oz. chopped almonds Grated rind of 1 lemon and 1 orange \ teaspoonful mixed spice A dust of salt 1 glass of brandy 2 eggs Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs (well beaten) alternately with the flour (sifted), then add brandy, and beat the mixture ten minutes. Mean- while, stone the raisins and chop slightly, also divide the cherries and cut up the peel into rather large pieces, add the whole of the above ingredients to the cake, mix well, and pour into a cake mould, first lined with oiled paper. Bake in a moderate oven 3 to 3j hours.102 No. 165. PETITS CHOUX, with Almonds. £ pint water % lb. butter 5 oz. flour 2 oz. minced almonds A little almond essence £ pint cream 3 eggs Boil the water and the butter, then stir in the flour (sifted), stir well until it is a smooth thick paste, allow it to cook gently 5 minutes, when cool add the eggs gradually, first beating them thoroughly, and add almond essence. Put into a forcing bag with a plain tube, and force on to a baking tin into small rounds; bake in a moderate oven 15 minutes, then lift out, brush over with egg, and thickly cover with the crushed almonds, put back in the oven for 20 minutes. When cold put in each a little whipped cream flavoured with almond essence. Pass the sugar through a sieve, mix with the almonds, then add as much unbeaten white of egg as will mix it into a stiff paste ; add also the vanilla, and work it on a board until quite smooth. It is then ready for use. Forcing Bag and Platn Tube, Is. 4d., by post Is. 6d., from H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street, Warrington. No. 166. ALMOND PASTE OR ICING. ^ lb. crushed almonds A few drops of vanilla or almond essence \ teaspoonful bitter almonds I lb. icing sugar Whites of eggs103 No. 167. WHITE ICING FOR DECORATING CAKES. 1 lb. of icing sugar I 1 to 2 whites of egg ^ teaspoonful lemon juice Pass the sugar through a fine hair sieve, add the lemon juice and the unbeaten whites of the eggs gradu- ally, until the sugar is moistened, and presents the appearance of a stiffish paste; beat 10 to 15 minutes. With this cover the cakes, and, when set, decorate with fancy tubes and bag. This may be coloured, if liked, with cochineal. No. 168. CHOCOLATE ICING. 2 tablespoonfuls grated chocolate I £ teaspoonful vanilla | lb. icing sugar | 2 tablespoonfuls of water Put all into a pan, and stir until warm and liquid; then use. No. 169. WATER ICING. £ lb. icing sugar I 2 tablespoonfuls of water A few drops of vanilla Pass the sugar through a fine sieve; put it into a pan with the water and vanilla; stir over a gentle heat until liquid and warm. Use at once, or it will become set in the pan.104 No. 170. WATER ICING (Various). Orange, apricot, or any icing may be made as the above by substituting the juice of the fruit for the water, coffee, or any flavouring required. No. 171. FRENCH PUFF PASTRY. 1 lb. Vienna flour Juice of 1 lemon 1 lb. fresh butter Yolks of 2 eggs As much cold water as will mix the flour Pass the flour through a wire sieve; mix the yolks with lemon juice and water; with this, and as much water as is necessary, mix the flour into a soft paste, knead until smooth, and roll out into a long strip. Put the butter into a floured towel, and squeeze well to get out all the moisture; take care not to make the butter very soft. If very hot weather, the butter must be left on ice half-an-hour before it is used. Form the butter into a flat cake a little less than half the size of pastry, lay on one end, wet the edge slightly, and fold the pastry over. Fasten the edges well together, turn round, press with the rolling pin, and roll out; fold in three, and set aside in a cool place for 15 minutes. Continue the rolling and folding seven times, allowing it to stand 15 minutes between each rolling. Before giving it the last two rollings, sprinkle over it a few drops of lemon juice; each time, when rolling the pastry, arrange105 it with rough edges towards you, and keep all the edges as square as possible. After the rolling is complete, cover the pastry with a damp cloth, and stand in a cool place at least two hours before using; or it will be improved to allow it to stand all night. No. 172. RICH SHORT PASTRY. £ lb. flour I 6 oz. butter A pinch of salt | A little cold water Rub the butter into the flour, and when quite smooth add enough water to mix it into a stiff paste ; roll out once and use. SAVOURIES & BREAKFAST DISHES. No. 173. DEVILLED CHICKEN. 1 egg I Some cold chicken ^ teaspoonful mustard | 2 oz. butter ^ teaspoonful curry powder I 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs A little salt Mix the eggs, mustard, salt and curry together, divide the chicken into small joints, brush over each piece with the egg mixture, cover with the brown crumbs, place in a baking tin with the butter, bake about 15 minutes ; dish in a ring, and garnish with parsley or cresses.106 No. 174. GRILLED CHICKEN. 1 chicken I 1 dessertspoonful minced parsley 1 egg I ^ oz. glaze 2 oz. butter 2 tablespoonfuls stock 2 tablespoonfuls brown crumbs | 2 tablespoonfuls sherry Divide the chicken in half, remove the bones from the legs and wings, cover with butter, and grill under a gas grill, or over a brisk fire, 15 minutes, basting occasionally with the butter ; then brush over with the egg, and sprinkle with the crumbs, brown quickly, dish. Put the stock, sherry, glaze, and seasoning into a pan ; when dissolved, add parsley, pour round the chicken, and serve. No. 175. DARIOLES OF PARMESAN. 1 oz. butter £ pint milk ^ oz. flour 2 eggs A little salt, pepper, and cayenne 1 tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese Some scraps of short or puff paste Butter about ten small ° dariole moulds, roll out the pastry as thinly as possible, and line the moulds. Put the butter into a saucepan, and when melted stir in the flour quite smooth, add the milk, and boil three minutes; then add the cheese, salt, pepper, and eggs (well beaten); three parts fill the moulds with this, and bake 20 minutes. Turn out carefully, and serve hot on a lace paper. * Dariole Moulds, 3s.6d. per doz., by post 3s. 9d.,from H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street, Warrington.107 No. 175. PARMESAN CUSTARDS. 4 eggs £ pint milk 2 oz. butter 3 tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan Salt, pepper, and cayenne Beat up the eggs, add milk (boiling), Parmesan, salt, pepper, and cayenne ; pour into some very small buttered darioles, stirring all the time, so as not to let the cheese settle. Stand the moulds in a saucepan, allowing the water to come within half an inch of the top; simmer very gently until set. Cut some thin slices of bread, and stamp them out in rounds a little larger than the moulds; put the butter into a frying pan, and when quite hot fry the bread a pretty gold. Dish one custard on each, put a little pile of grated cheese on the top of each, and brown under a gas burner or in front of a brisk fire. Serve on lace paper, with parsley or cress garnish. No. 176. EGGS A LA PARMESAN. 4 eggs Some rounds of toast 4 inches in diameter Salt, pepper, and cayenne 3 tablespoonfuls grated Par- mesan cheese 1 oz. butter £ teaspoonful anchovy essenoe Work the anchovy essence into the butter, and with this butter the rounds of bread, which must be evenly toasted. Poach the eggs neatly, drain on a towel, and dish one egg on each round of toast. Season the cheese with salt, pepper, and cayenne, and thickly cover each egg; brown in front of the fire, in a quick oven, or under a gas grill. Serve hot.108 No. 177. EGGS A LA. CREME. 6 eggs I ^ lb. thinly cat bacon i pint cream | 1 oz. butter Spread the butter on the bottom of a shallow dish, pour in the cream, break the eggs carefully in the dish ; * partly cook the bacon in front of the fire, then place it on the top of the eggs, with a little of the liquor. Bake about eight minutes, and serve. This dish may be pre- pared in small china cases, allowing one egg to each case. No. 178. EGGS AU GRATIN. 6 hard-boiled eggs ^ pint cream or milk Salt, pepper, and cayenne 2 tablespoonfuls good stock 1 oz. butter ^ oz. flour 3 tablespooufuls of grated Par- mesan cheese Yolks of 2 eggs (raw) Boil the eggs hard, and dip in cold water for a minute ; then divide in half lengthwise, and dish in a circle round a dish. Have the sauce prepared as follows:—Melt the butter, stir in the flour and seasoning; also the cream and stock; also one tablespoonful of cheese. Boil five minutes ; then add the yolks (beaten); with this coat the eggs, and sprinkle over with Parmesan cheese, put under a gas grill, in a hot oven, or in front of the fire to brown; pour round the remainder of the sauce, and garnish with fried bread, and serve.109 No. 179. DRIED HADDOCK ON TOAST. I lb. cooked dried haddock 1 tablespoonful cream 2 hard-boiled eggs 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley \ oz. butter A little pepper and cayenne § teaspoonful lemon juice 2 oz. bread crumbs 1 egg 2 oz. butter Pound or chop the haddock very fine, work into it one hard-boiled yolk, the butter, pepper, cayenne, lemon juice, and cream; rub through a fine wire sieve; form into oval shapes about the size of an olive, paint over with the egg, and roll in bread crumbs, fry a light gold in smoking hot fat. Stamp out some oval shapes of bread a little larger than the olives, stamp out the centre of each the same size as the olive, fry these a light gold in the 2 oz. of butter, first clarified ; fit an olive of haddock in each crouton of bread, garnish round each alternately with chopped parsley, yolk and white of egg. Serve on a lace paper. No. 180. HAM TOAST. 2 eggs 1 tablespoonful cream i lb. lean boiled ham 1 teaspoonful minced parsley Pepper, cayenne % oz. butter Some rounds or squares of buttered toast Break the eggs into a saucepan, add all the ingredients, and stir over a gentle heat until it begins to set. Have the rounds of toast ready and buttered; pile on each a little heap of the ham mixture. Dish round a dish on a lace paper, resting each round on the other; garnish with parsley, and serve.110 No. 181. MUSHROOM TOAST. £ lb. mushrooms Small rounds or squares of buttered ^ oz. butter 2 eggs Pepper, salt, and cayenne toast Put the butter into a pan, and, when hot, add the mushrooms (minced); fry three or four minutes, then add eggs, pepper, salt, and cayenne; stir over a gentle heat until set, then pile a small heap on each piece of toast. Dish on a lace paper, and garnish with parsley or cresses. Put all the mixture into a saucepan, and stir until it thickens; then set aside until quite cold. Cut the bread and butter as thinly as possible, stamp out in rounds about 1£ inches in diameter, or in finger lengths; spread the mixture on half of these, then lay the other half on the top. Dish in a circle if round, or in a pyramid if finger length; garnish with cresses, and No. 182. GERMAN SANDWICHES. 1 tablespoonful cream or stock £ lb. minced chicken ^ teaspoonful of anchovy essence 1 egg A little lemon juice 1 oz. butter 1 oz. minced ham A little salt and pepper Some thin brown bread and butter serve.Ill No. 183. SCOTCH WOODCOCK. 2 hard-boiled eggs 3 tablespoonfuls grated Parmesan cheese ^ pint milk 1 oz. butter 1 oz. flour rt teaspoonful anchovy essence Salt, pepper, and cayenne 2 rounds of buttered toast A little minced parsley | pint stock Mince the whites of the eggs and place on one round of the toast with one tablespoonful of the cheese, pepper, salt, and cayenne; place to other round of toast on the top, put in the oven to heat through. Meanwhile, dissolve the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour; when smooth add the milk, stock, anchovy, remainder of the cheese, and seasoning. Divide the toast into squares, pour over the sauce, garnish with minced parsley and the yolks of eggs rubbed through a wire sieve, and serve hot. Slice the tomatoes and fry until quite soft and tender in the butter, rub through a fine hair sieve, add the vinegar, salt, pepper, cayenne, sugar and eggs (well beaten) ; then stir in as much flour as will make a stiff batter, drop one dessertspoonful at a time into some smoking hot fat, and fry a pretty light brown; drain and serve hot on a lace paper, with cress in the centre. No. 184. TOMATO FRITTERS. £ lb. tomatoes 1 oz. butter Yolks of 2 eggs and 1 white Salt, pepper, and cayenne A little flour Fat for frying Pinch of sugar 1 teaspoonful of vinegar112 No. 185. TOMATO TOAST. £ lb. of tomatoes, orpart of tin 2 eggs 2 oz. butter Pepper, salt, cayenne l teaspoonful vinegar A dust of sugar Some rounds or squares of toast Put the tomatoes (sliced) into a pan with the butter, and fry five minutes; rub through a fine sieve ; put the pulp back into the pan, break in the eggs, add seasoning, sugar, and vinegar. Stir over a gentle heat until it begins to set. Have the bread cut in small rounds or squares, and buttered; pile in the centre of each a little of the tomato mixture. Dish round a dish, resting one piece on the other; garnish with parsley or cress, and serve. Cucumber Divide the celery into shreds, also part of the lettuce ; cut the beetroot into thin rounds; mix all together, and season with salt, pepper, sugar, and vinegar. Pour a little salad dressing in the bottom of the dish, and pile AND DRESSING. No. 186. GREEN SALAD. Some celery Radishes Cooked beetroot Vinegar, salt, pepper 2 hard-boiled eggs Lettuce or endive A little tarragon, chervil, or parsley 1 tea3poonful castor sugar Salad dressing (page 114)113 the salad high in the centre. Garnish round with the heart of the lettuce divided, hard-boiled eggs, and beet- root, and sprinkle with the tarragon, chervil, or a little minced parsley. No. 187. VEGETABLE SALAD. 1 cauliflower £ pint green peas 1 large beetroot A little salad dressing 2 hard-boiled eggs | pint aspic jelly (page 89) | lb. French beans 4 potatoes 1 dozen asparagus Boil all the vegetables in separate pans until tender, in water containing a little soda; when done and cold, cut some slices of beetroot and potato about J inch thick, stamp out in rounds about the size of a shilling, arrange these alternately at the bottom of a border mould, resting one on the other, pour over a little aspic jelly to set this, when firm take some lengths of the asparagus heads and divide into lengths just the height of the mould, dip these in liquid jelly, and arrange round the sides of the mould; fill up the mould with the vegetables, seasoned with pepper, salt, and salad oil, then pour in sufficient aspic jelly to set it; when firm, dip in warm water and turn out on a silver dish, fill the centre with the remainder of the seasoned vegetables, pour over a little salad dressing (page 114), and garnish with the chopped jelly and hard-boiled eggs cut length- wise. i114 No. 188. SALAD DRESSING. 2 tablespoonfuls salad oil 1 dessertspoonful vinegar Raw yolks of 2 eggs £ pint cream Dust of salt, pepper, cayenne and mustard Add the salt, pepper, cayenne, and mustard to the yolks, then gradually drop in the oil, stirring all the time, then add the cream and vinegar, and use. Dissolve one ounce of butter, stir in the flour, and when smooth add the water and stir until it boils, then gradually add the remainder of the butter and lemon juice. Should the sauce become oily, add a little more water. Pass through a fine sieve, and use. This sauce may also be sweetened and flavoured for puddings. No. 189. MELTED BUTTER SAUCE. 6 oz. butter A few drops of lemon juice £ pint of water 1 oz. flour A dust of pepper Salt115 No. 190. BROWN SAUCE. 2 oz, butter 1 oz. flour 1 good-sized tomato £ pt. good brown stock 1 sweet carrot Fry in the butter the carrot and tomato sliced thin, add the flour, and when it is all brown add the stock, boil five minutes, pass through a fine hair sieve, and it is ready for use. This is a useful sauce to add to gravies* &c., to slightly thicken them, and may be kept some days. No. 191. BREAD SAUCE. £ pint milk 1 oz. butter A dust of salt, pepper, and cayenne A little cream 1 small onion 2 oz. bread crumbs A blade of mace Boil the milk with the onions and mace or a clove 10 minutes; strain; add the crumbs, butter, and seasoning, boil five minutes ; then add enough cream to reduce it to the right consistency. No. 192. CREAM SAUCE (Sweet). 1 oz. flour I 1 oz. butter £ pint milk J pint cream 1 dessertspoonful sugar I A dust of salt • Dissolve the butter, stir in the flour until smooth, then add the milk, cream, sugar, salt, and any flavour- ing such as almonds, &c., according to what it is required for.116 No. 193. CREME SAUCE. 1 oz. butter £ pint white stock Salt, pepper 1 small carrot A bay leaf A few drops of lemon juice 1 oz. flour £ pint cream A small piece of onion 1 stalk celery A bunch of sweet herbs Melt the butter, stir in the flour until smooth, then add the stock, cream, vegetables (sliced), also the season- ing ; allow this to simmer gently 15 minutes; pass through a fine sieve, and serve. If necesary add a little more cream. No. 194. DUTCH SAUCE. £ pint milk | oz. flour Salt Yolks of 2 eggs 1 tablespoonful vinegar £ tablespoonful mustard Melt the butter, stir in the flour until smooth, then add milk, boil three minutes; - ‘ ^he vinegar, yolks, salt, and mustard together, then p r'r over the sauce. If not thick, put back into pan, stand in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir until it does thicken. No. 195. SAUCE A LA FRANCAISE. 11 oz. flour 11 oz. butter 2 tablespoonfuls mushroom liquid £ pint of white veal stock; or 4 pint of good fish stock Salt and pepper £ pint of cream £ teaspoonful anchovy and a few drops cochineal 4 button mushrooms cut in shreds * Melt the butter, work in the flour until smooth, add the stock, cream, and all other ingredients except117 mushrooms; colour a pale pink, boil 5 minutes, pass through a fine sieve, and, if too thick, thin down with cream ; add mushrooms, re-heat, and use. This may be left white if preferred. No. 196. GERMAN SAUCE. Raw yolks of 2 eggs I 1 dessertspoonful sugar A few drops vanilla | £ pint sherry Warm the wine, add to the eggs, with the sugar and vanilla, stand the basin over a saucepan of hot water, and whip until warm and a thick froth ; take care it does not get too hot, or it will curdle. A ■% / No. 197. 4 nr Dalian sauce. 1 oz. flour 1 glass sherry £ pint of white stock 2 tablespoonfuls of cream Melt the butter, stir in the flour until smooth, then add all the above ingredients; simmer slowly 15 minutes. If too thick add a little more stock, pass through a fine hair sieve, and use. 1 minced shallot 4 button mushrooms 1 bay leaf A bunch of sweet herbs118 No. 198. LEMON SAUCE. £ lb. lump sugar £ pint water Juice of 3 lemons 1 teaspoonful arrowroot A dust of salt Boil the sugar and water together 10 minutes; moisten the arrowroot with a little cold water; pour over the sugar, add the lemon juice, and boil five minutes, and serve. No. 199. MINT SAUCE. 3 tablespoonfuls of freshly chopped mint £ pint vinegar 2 dessertspoonfuls castor sugar 1 dessertspoonful salad oil Drop the oil on the mint and sugar; then add the vinegar, and, if too strong, a little water may be added. No. 200. MAYONNAISE SAUCE. ^ pint of salad oil 1 dessertspoonful of vinegar Yolk of 1 egg (raw) A few drops lemon juice £ teaspoonful mustard A dust of salt and pepper A dust of cayenne Put the yolk of egg into a basin; add the mustard, pepper, salt, and cayenne; then the salad oil, drop by drop, stirring it quickly the whole time; then add vine- gar and lemon juice, and the sauce is ready. The sauce should be kept quite stiff. Should the sauce curdle, it may be brought to its original state by dropping it to another yolk of egg.119 No. 201. TOMATO SAUCE, •J lb. tomatoes, or £ tin tomatoes | f pint of stock 1 carrot j 1^ oz. butter 1 turnip, small | 1^ oz. flour A bunch of sweet herbs 1 small onion A few drops of cochineal | A bay leaf Slice the vegetables, and fry them in the butter five minutes, then add the flour, stock, seasoning and cochi- neal, stir until it boils, leave this to simmer 30 minutes, rub through a fine hair sieve, and use. If tinned tomatoes are used, they will not require frying, but add them with the stock. No. 202. WHITE SAUCE FOR VEGETABLES. 1 oz. flour ^ pint cream £ pint milk Salt, pepper, and a few drops 2 oz. butter lemon juice Melt the butter, and stir in the flour, salt, and pepper until smooth, then add the milk and cream, boil five minutes, pass through a fine sieve, and use. No 203. WHITE SAUCE (Sweet). Prepare as above, except that sugar and flavouring must be added instead of salt and pepper. No. 204. FRIED PARSLEY Wash, pick, and dry some parsley thoroughly, put into a ^frying basket, and immerse in hot fat for about 15 * Frying Baskets, 8 inch, 2s., by post 2s. 3d.; may be had from H. M. Young, 27, Arpley Street, Warrington120 seconds, or until crisp. The parsley should look quite green; if black, it has been too long in the fat. Drain on soft paper, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and serve. No. 205. POTATO BORDER. 1 to lb. mashed potatoes I 1 oz. butter 1 egg j Pepper and salt Season the potatoes, and add the butter ("melted), also half of the eggs, mix well, and form into an oval, or round border, paint over with the remainder of the egg, put on to a greased baking sheet, and bake until brown, then use. No. 206. RICE FOR CURRY. Wash halfia-pound of Patna rice, and throw it into plenty of boiling water containing one teaspoonful of salt to each quart; allow this to boil quickly 15 minutes, or until the grains will break between the fingers; pour on to a wire sieve, then pour over plenty of boiling water to wash away the starchy portion, put this in a warm oven or in front of the fire to dry, occasionally tossing it with a fork to keep the grains separate. No. 207. RICE BORDER (Savoury). £ lb. rice I 1 pint of good white stock A few drops lemon juice | Salt, pepper Wash the rice and boil until tender in the stock and until it absorbs all the stock, add seasoning, and when dry press into a wetted border mould; turn out at once.121 No. 208. RICE BORDER (Sweet). Prepare as savoury, only substitute the stock with milk, and add sugar and flavouring to taste. HOME-MADE WINES. No. 209. CHERRY WINE. 8 lbs. marble cherries. Crush the cherries and .stones in a strong lemon squeezer, pour over them one gallon of hot water (not boiling), let them stand all night; then strain, and add as much cold water as you have syrup, and add one pound of sugar to each quart; allow this to stand until the sugar is dissolved, then put in stone bottles and allow to stand two or three days to work, adding more wine each day to fill up the bottles; stand in a warm place three weeks, then lightly cork and allow to stand until it has finished fermenting. Then knock in the corks tightly and watch that they do not fly; allow this to stand six months or longer (the longer the better); bottle carefully so as not to disturb the sediment. No. 210. COLTSFOOT WINE. Gather sufficient of the coltsfoot flower to fill 4 quart measures when dried three or four days in the sun; pour122 over 8 quarts of boiling water, add lib. of sugar to each quart; when dissolved, put into stone bottles, allow to stand two or three days, then in a warm place two or three weeks ; cork lightly, and afterwards knock in the corks quite tight; bottle in small bottles in about six months, taking great care not to disturb the sediment. No. 211. BLACK, RED, or MIXED CURRANT WINE. 1 quart of water to each quart of I 1 lb. of sugar to each quart of juice | syrup Crush the currants by rubbing them through a fine hair sieve, measure the juice, and add as much water; then pour over the sugar, allowing 1 lb. to each quart; let this stand all night to dissolve, put into stone bottles, and as it works over refill the bottles for two or three days. Put it in a warm place for three weeks, and then lightly cork until it stops fermenting, then cork firmly, and watch that they do not fly; bottle in six months, taking care not to disurb the sediment at the bottom. Of course, the longer it stands before bottling the better. No. 212. ELDERBERRY WINE. One quart of berries, picked clean from the stems; pour over three quarts of water, and a quarter of an ounce of essence of cloves, and simmer slowly one hour; then pour over the sugar, allowing lib. to each quart. Toast a piece of bread, and pour over one teacup of123 brewer’s yeast, and when the wine is cool put in th„ bread. Allow this to stand all night, then remove the bread, put in stone bottles, and allow it to stand two or three days to work, filling up the bottles each day; then stand in a warm place three weeks; afterwards put in the corks lightly, and watch them that they do not fly ; then cork tightly, and allow to stand six months (the longer the better), and bottle, taking care not to disturb the sediment. ^ oz, burnt sugar Pour the boiling water over the above ingredients, and when cold put in a piece of toasted bread with the yeast poured over; allow it to stand all night; remove the bread and put in large stone bottles. Allow it to ferment three days, filling them as they come over. Stand in a warm place three weeks, then cork lightly at first, and lastly knock in the corks tight. Allow to stand two months, then bottle carefully so as not to disturb the sediment. Peel the oranges as thinly as possible, taking care to only get the outside yellow part, and none of the white pith, as this gives a bitter flavour. Put the peel into a No. 213. GINGER WINE. | oz. strong essence of ginger J oz. essence of cayenne % oz. tartaric acid 5 lbs. loaf sugar 12 pints of boiling water 1 tablespoonful brewer’s yeast No. 214. ORANGE WINE. 3 dozen oranges.124 pan with one gallon of water, and stew it gently four hours, adding more water as it wastes, so as to have one gallon when finished; strain. Peel the oranges and squeeze out the juice, and add as much water as you have juice. Add this to the gallon of water in which the peel has been stewed; allow lib. of sugar to each quart, and stand one night to dissolve the sugar. Then put into stone bottles. Allow to ferment as above. NoT216. PARSNIP WINE. 4 lbs, parsnips I 4 lbs. sugar Juice of two oranges | 1 gallon water Juice of one lemon | 1 oz. whole ginger Wash the parsnips, but do not peel them, cut in sfices, put into a pan with the ginger and half the water, boil until tender, strain over the sugar, add the remainder of the water, and the orange and lemon juice ; allow this to stand overnight, then add a round of toast with one teacupful of yeast; allow it to stand all night again, remove the bread, and skim; pour into stone bottles, and allow it to ferment two or three days longer; then stand in a warm place three weeks, cork lightly, and watch they -do not fly; then knock in the corks tightly, and allow to stand five or six months; bottle carefully so as not to disturb the sediment. No. 216. PEACH WINE. 5 lbs. peaches, sliced, and the stones broken, pour over the water cold and allow to stand four days, stirring it three times a day, then strain; to each quart of125 liquid add 1 lb. sugar, and let it stand all night to dissolve ; toast a piece of bread and pour over one tea- cupful of yeast, put this into the wine, allow it to stand ajl night, take out the bread and skim off the yeast, put into stone bottles, and allow it to work two or three days, filling up the bottles each day ; then stand in a warm place three weeks, and then lightly put in the corks until it has finished fermenting; knock them in tightly, watch they do not fly, bottle in six months (the longer it stands the better). Take care in bottling not to disturb the sediment. No. 217. RHUBARB WINE. 1 pint of water to every two I 1 lb. sugar to each quart quarts of rhubarb juice j Crush the rhubarb (a good plan is to pass it through a wringing machine), add one pint of water to each two quarts of syrup ; measure again, and allow one pound of sugar to every quart, pour the syrup over the sugar and allow it to stand all night until dissolved; then put into stone bottles, and allow it to stand to work, filling the bottles for two or three days as it works over; then let stand in a warm place three weeks, then lightly put in the corks and allow it to stand until it has done fermenting, then eork up tightly, but watch it, as some- times the corks will fly two or three times; allow it to stand quite six months, but the longer the better ; then bottle, taking care not to disturb the sediment at the bottom.126 No. 218. HONEY BEER. 7 gallons of water I 14 lbs. honey ^ lb. hops | 2 tablespoonfuls yeast Mix honey, water, and hops, and boil them gently one hour, strain, and put into a cask ; allow it to stand all night, and then add the yeast; let this ferment for a week or ten days, then gradually stop it by placing a piece of brown paper over the hole, then lightly put in the bung and knock it in a little closer every second day until quite tight. Allow this to stand at least six weeks. Whilst the beer is working add a little honey and water every morning to keep the cask full. No. 219. LIGHT HONEY BEER. Pour two gallons of boiling water over 1^ pints of honey, when cool add 1J pints of good yeast, let it stand 30 hours, and then strain; bottle it and cork tightly. The next day it will be ready for use. No. 220. APRICOT EFFERVESCING DRINK. Bruise sufficient apricots to make one pint of juice, pass through a flannel bag to clear, boil until a syrup with half a pound of sugar, add one ounce tartaric acid; bottle, and cork well. For a tumbler three-parts full of water add two tablespoonfuls of the above syrup and a little arbonate of soda, stir, and drink while effervescing.127 No. 221. MOCK PRESERVED GINGER, Boil some small carrots until tender, then take out the hearts, allow these to stand in cold water for several days until they have lost their vegetable flavour, changing the water each day; then add to each pound of prepared carrots 1 quart of water and 2 lbs. loaf sugar, 2 oz. of whole ginger, and the rind of a lemon thinly cut; boil 15 minutes each day until it begins to set, and the last day add a cayenne essence; put in jars, and cover with parchment. No. 222. MARMALADE. Take about 12 Seville and two sweet oranges, divide into quarters, take out the seeds and cover with water, allow them to stand all night; also cut the pulp into fine strips, put into a deep dish, and add 3 pints of water to each pound of fruit; let it stand 24 hours, then boil till tender (about J of an hour) ; let it stand all night, then weigh, and allow 1£ lbs. of sugar to each pound, add the syrup from pips, and boil all together f of an hour, or until the juice is well set; put into jars, and cover with parchment. The juice of 2 lemons to about 12 oranges is an improvement.128 No. 223. YEAST. 2 quarts of water I 1 teacupful of hops tablespoonfuls of flour | 1^ tablespoonful of sugar Boil the hops in the water one hour; then strain, and when just warm add to sugar and flour, which may be first moistened with a little liquid, and, when smooth, add the whole. Bottle and cork well, and in hot weather it will be ready for use in 24 hours. ICES. No. 224. CUSTARD (No, 1). 1 pint milk or cream I ^ lb. sugar Yolks of 8 eggs Boil the milk, and pour over the yolks (beaten) and the sugar; pour back into the pan; stand in another pan of boiling water, and stir until it thickens. Pass through a fine sieve, and when quite cold it is ready for use. No. 225. CUSTARD (No. 2). 1 pint milk I 2 eggs £ lb.sugar Boil the milk; add to eggs (well beaten), also the sugar; pour back into pan, stand in boiling water, stir until thick, pass through a fine sieve, and, when cold, use.129 No. 226. BROWN BREAD ICE (Creme de Pain Bis), 1 pint brown bread crumbs I 8 tablespoonfuls of Noyeau or 1 pint of milk or cream | Maraschino syrup Pour the milk or custard over the crumbs; add flavouring. Freeze, dry, and serve in cups or in a pile or mould. No. 227. CHERRY ICE (Creme de Cerises). 1 lb. cherries Juice of lemons A few drops cochineal 1 wineglass sherry % pint water 3 oz. sugar 1 pint custard (No. 1 or 2) Stone the cherries, break the stones and take out the kernels, cook the cherries with the kernels for about 10 minutes in the water with the sugar, then pound them and add the juice of the lemons and the cochineal; pass through a fine wire sieve, add the custard and wine, and when cold freeze. No. 228. RICE CREAM (Creme de Riz). 1 pt. milk I 3 bay leaves Rind of 1 lemon | A little cinnamon 3 oz. ground rice \ pint of whipped cream 4 oz. castor sugar Boil the milk with the bay leaves, cinnamon, and lemon rind, mix the rice flour with a little cold milk, strain over the boiling milk and sugar, put back into the saucepan, and boil slowly ten minutes; when cold freeze, and when partly frozen add the whipped cream slightly sweetened, put in a mould, or serve in a pile or cup. K130 No. 229. TANGERINE ICE. 12 tangerine oranges 1 pint of milk or cream Yolks of 8 eggs 4 oz. sugar 1 wineglass of orange flower water Peel the oranges thinly, put the peel in the milk when boiling, and allow it to stand 15 minutes ; do not let it boil; then strain over the yolks (beaten) and the sugar, then add the orange pulp ; pass through a fine hair sieve; when cold add the orange flower water, and freeze. This may be served in cups, a pile, or mould. The foregoing recipes for ices and creams are given by the kind consent of Mrs. A. B. Marshall, of London, authoress. Take 1 pint of No. 1 or 2 custard, add 2 teaspoonfuls of vanilla, and freeze. 6 oz. sugar Peel the lemons as thinly as possible, put into a basin with the sugar and water, allow it to stand until quite cold, add the lemon juice, then freeze. Serve in mould glasses, or in a rough pile. No. 232. WATER ICES (Various). Made as above, except that various flavours mav be used. No. 230. VANILLA ICE CREAM. No. 231. LEMON WATER ICE. Rind and juice of 6 lemons 1 pint of boiling water131 No. 233. TO FREEZE THE ICES. Having prepared the mixture, take Marshall’s Patent Freezer, and lift the pan from the tub, put pounded ice in the tub to the depth of 1J inches, and throw oter it half its weight of rough salt and mix well. Replace the pan on the pivot in the tub, pour in the cream, &c., through the little door in the lid, put on the cross bar and the handle and turn. There is no need to pack the ice round the pan, but merely to put it on the bottom of the tub under the pan. After turning the handle for a few minutes examine the process of the freezing by looking through the lid. When the cream is suffi- ciently frozen, hold the pan with one hand, unscrew the handle and lift off the crossbar and lid and remove the cream. Keep the freezer clean, and when cleaning take out the mixing fan. N.B.—The cream, &c., in the pan, should never be more than 1 inch deep. The shallower the layer is in the pan the quicker it will freeze. For description, sizes and prices of the freezer, see page 141. No. 234. MOULDING and KEEPING ICES. Take one of Marshall’s patent caves and remove the lids; fill in between the metals with a mixture of 2132 parts broken ice and 1 part of rough salt; shake it well down, so that the mixture goes underneath the cup- board of the cave, and fill well up, so that the lid will just slide over the ice and salt; re- place the lids; now fill the mould with the frozen cream from the freezer, and see that it is well pressed or shaken into the mould ; place the mould for to 2 hours in the cave ; when ready, dip the mould for an instant in cold water, and turn out as a jelly. If you wish to keep the ice in shape ; after it is turned out it may be put back in the cave and will keep perfectly several hours, so that ices can be prepared long before they are required. When anything is freezing in the cave do not open the door oftener than is necessary. When the cave is done with remove the brine and wash out with boiling water, and see that it is put away dry. N.B.—Any ordinary copper mould may be used for the ices in this cave. For description, sizes, and prices of caves, see page 142.133 FOOD IN SEASON JANUARY. Fish. Fish—continued. Poultry and Brill Carp Cod Soles Sprats Shrimps Game. Black Game Crab Turbot Chickens Crawfish Whiting Ducks Crayfish Fruit Ditto (Wild) Eels Apples Fowls Flounders Almonds Geese Gurnets Bananas Hares Herrings Chestnuts Larks Halibut Cocoanuts Poulardes Haddock Grapes Pigeons (Tame) Lobster Figs Pheasants Mackerel Lemons Partridges Oysters Plaice Melons (Water) Pullets Oranges Plovers Perch Tangerines Rabbits Pike Pines Snipe Smelts Pears Turkeys Skate Rhubarb (forced) Woodcock FEBRUARY. Fish. Fish—continued. Poultry and Carp Cod Smelts Sprats Game. Crabs Trout Black Game Crawfish Turbot Chickens Crayfish Whitebait Ducks Eels Flounders Fruit. Ditto (Wild) Fowls Gurnets Apples Geese Haddock Almonds Hares Herrings Bananas Larks Lobster Cocoanuts Poulardes Mackerel Grapes Pheasants Oysters Lemons Partridges Plaice Melons (Water) Plovers Perch Oranges Prairie Hens Pike Ditto, Seville Rabbits Salmon Pines Snipe Shrimps Pears Turkeys Skate Rhubarb (forced) Woodcock Vegetables. Artichokes (Globe) Ditto (Jerusalem) Brussels Sprouts Beetroot Cucumbers Celery- Chervil Garlic Greens Horseradish Kale Lettuce Leeks Mushrooms Onions Parsnips Potatoes Savoys Shallots Salsify Vegetables. Artichokes (Globe) Ditto (Jerusalem) Brussels Sprouts Beetroot Cucumbers Celery Chervil Garlic Greens Horseradish Kale Lettuce Leeks Mushrooms Onions Parsnips Potatoes Savoys Shallots Salsify134 Tomatoes Whiting Babbits Trout Salmon Oranges MARCH. Fish. Fish—continued. Poultry and Trout Game. Vegetables. Carp (until 15tb) Turbot Black Game Crabs Whitebait Chickens Artichokes (Globe) Cod Ducks Beetroot Crawfish Ditto, Wild Cucumbers Crayfish Ducklings Chervil Eels Fruit. Fowls Garlic Flounders Geese Horseradish Gurnets Apples Guinea Fowl Kale Haddock Almonds Hares Lettuce Lobster Bananas Poulard es Leeks Mackerel Cocoanuts Pheasants (until Mushrooms Oysters Figs 12th) Onions Perch (until 15th) Grapes Partridges, ditto Potatoes Pike ditto Lemons Plover (until 15tb) Parsnips Salmon Oranges Prairie Hens Salsify Smelts Ditto, Seville Quails Savoys Skate Pines Babbits Shallots Sprats Ehubarb (forced) Snipe (until 15th) Spinach Shrimps Woodcock Tomatoes APRIL. Fish. Fish—continued. Poultry and Vegetables. Crawfish Trout Game. Crabs Turbot Artichokes (Globe) Cod Whitebait Chickens Asparagus Eels Beetroot Flounders Fruit. Ditto, Spring Chervil Gurnets Ducks Garlic Haddock Lobster Apples Almonds Ducklings Fowls Horseradish Leeks Mackerel Bananas Guinea Fowl Lettuce Oysters Brazils Hares Mushrooms Prawns Figs Leverets Onions (Spring) Salmon Grapes Poulardes Potatoes Smelts Lemons Prairie Hens Parsnips Sprats Oranges Quails Shallots Shrimps Pines Babbits Spinach Skate Ehubarb Tomatoes MAY. Fish. Brill Fruit. Poultry and Vegetables. Bass Crawfish Apples Almonds Game. Asparagus Beetroot Crabs Bananas Chickens Carrots (new) Eels Brazils Ditto (Spring) ' Chervil Gurnets Currants (Black) Ducks Cucumbers Halibut Ditto (Wed) Fowls Horseradish Haddock Ditto (White) Guinea Fowl Leeks Lobster Figs Hares Lettuce . Mackerel Grapes Leverets Onions (Spring) Plaice Gooseberries Poulard- s Potatoes Prawns Lemons Quails Spinach Smelts Soles Skate Shrimps Turbot Whitebait Pines Rhubarb135 Whiting Turbot Strawberries Whitebait JUNE. Fish. Brill Fruit. Poultry and Game. Vegetables Bass Almonds Asparagus Crabs Bananas Chickens Beetrooc Crawfish Cherries Ditio (Spring) Carrots (new) Crayfish Currants (Black) Ducks Cucumber Eels Ditto (White) Fowls Chervil Gurnets Ditto (Red) Goslings Horseradish Halibut. Figs Hares Lettuce Haddock Grapes Leverets Leeks Lobster Gooseberries Poults (Turkey) Onions (Spring) Mackerel Lemons Poulardes Potatoes (new) Plaice Oranges Quails 8pinach Prawn3 Salmon Soles Shrimps , Turbot Trout Whiting Whitebait Pines Raspberries Strawberries Rabbits Tomatoes JULY. Fish. Pish—continued. Poultry and Vegetables. Brill Bass Turbot Trout Whitebait Whiting Game. Asparagus Carp Crabs Chickens Ducks Beetroot Carrots Crawfish Fowls Cucumbers Crayfish Fruit. Goslings Chervil Eels Hares Horseradish Gurnets Leverets Lettuce Halibut Almonds Poults (Turkey) Leeks Haddock Bananas Poulardes Onions Lobster Cherries Quails Potatoes (New) Mullet (Grey) Currants (Black) Rabbits 8pinach (New) Ditto (Red) Ditto (White) Plaice Ditto (Red) Perch Figs Pike Grapes Prawns Gooseberries Salmon Pines Soles Raspberries Shrimps Strawberries AUGUST. Fish. Brill Bass Fruit. Poultry and Vegetables. Almonds Game. Beetroot Carp Apricots Beans (French) Crabs Bananas Chickens Cauliflowers Crawfish Cherries Ducks Cucumbers Crayfish Currants (Black) Ditto (Wild) Cabbages Eels Ditto (White) Fowls Chervil Flounders Ditto (Red) Grouse (12th; Horseradish Gurnets Figs Hares Leeks Herrings Grapes Larks Onions Halibut Greengages Leverets Potatoes Haddock Gooseberries Poults (Turkey) Peas Prawns Melons Poulardes Spinach Perch Nectarines Plovers Scarlet Runners Pike Peaches Rabbits Vegetable Marrows Salmon Pines Snipe Soles Plums Woodcock Shrimps Raspberries Widgeon TroutSEPTEMBER, Fish Fruit. Brill Bass Almonds Carp Apricots Crabs Apples Cod Bananas Crayfish Cherries Crawfish Damsons Eels Figs Flounders Grapes Gurnets Greengage Halibut Lemons Herrings Melons Haddock Nectarines Lobster Pears Mackerel Pines Mullet, Grey Peaches Ditto, Bed Plums Oysters Baspberries Plaice Strawberries Pike Walnuts Perch Salmon (to 7th) Soles Shrimps Tfout (to 7th) Whiting Poultry and Vegetables Game Beetroot Brussels Sprouts Chickens Beans (French) Ducks Celery Ditto (Wild) Cauliflowers Fowls Chillis Geese Capsicums Ditto (Wild) Cucumbers Grouse Chervil Hares Cabbages Larks Horseradish Partridges Leeks Poulardes Onions Plovers Parsnips Babbits Potatoes Snipe Peas Turkeys Spinach Woodcock Scarlet Eunners Widgeon Tomatoes Vegetable Marrows OCTOBER. Fish. Fish—continued. Skate Carp Turbot Brill crabs Crawfish Whiting Crayfish Cod Fruit. Eels Apricots Flounders Apples Herrings Almonds Haddock Bananas Halibut Cocoanuts Lobster Figs Mullet, Grey Grapes Ditto, Bed Lemon# Mackerel Melons Oysters Medlars Plaice N ectarines Pike Oranges Perch Pines Soles Pears Smelts Shrimps Peaches Poultry and Vegetables. Game. Artichokes (Jerusa- lem) Black Game Brussels Sprouts Chickens 1 Beaus (French) Ducks Beetroot Ditto (Wild) Celery Fowls Cauliflowers Geese Chillis Ditto (Wild) Cucumbers Grouse Capsicums Hares Garlic Larks Horseradish Poulardes Leeks Partridges ! Onions Pheasants Parsnips Plovers Potatoes Babbits Savoys Snipe Scarlet Eunners Turkeys Shal'ots Woodcock Spinach Widgeon Tomatoes Vegetable Marrows137 NOVEMBER. Fish. Fish—continued. Turbot Poultry and Vegetables. Brill Carp Cod Whiting Game. Artiohokes (Jerusa- lem) Beans, French Fruit. Black Game Crabs Chickens Brussels Sprouts Crawfish Ducks Beetroot Eels Apples Almonds Ditto (wild) Celery Flounders Fowls Cauliflowers Herrings Bananas Geese Cucumbers Halibut Cocoanuts Grouse Chervil Haddock Chestnuts Hares Greens Lobster Figs Larks Garlic Mackerel Grapes Poulardes Horseradish Oysters Lemons Pheasants Leeks Plaice Melons Plovers Potatoes Perch Oranges Partridges Parsnips Pike Tangerines Babbits Savoys Soles Pines Snipe Shallots Smelts Pears Turkeys Spinach Skate Pomegranates Woodcock Tomatoes Sprats Shrimps Quinces Walnuts Widgeon DECEMBER. Fish. Fi sh—contin ued. Sprats Poultry and Vegetables. Brill Shrimps Game. Artichokes (Jerusa- Carp Whiting lem) Crawfish Black Game Brussels Sprouts Crabs Fruit. Chickens Beetroot Crayfish Ducks Celery Cod Apples Ditto (wild) Cucumbers Eeis Almonds Fowls Chervil Flounders Bananas Geese Garlic Gurnets Cocoanuts Ditto (wild) Greens Herrings Chestnuts Grouse (until 10th) Horseradish Halibut Figs Hares Kale Haddock Grapes Larks Leeks Lobster Lemons Poulardes Lettuce Mackerel Melons Pheasants Mushrooms (forced) Oysters Oranges Partridges Onions Plaice Tangerines Plovers Potatoes Pike Pines Babbits Parsnips Perch Pears Snipe Savoys Soles Pomegranates Turkeys Balsify Skate Ehubarb (forced; Woodcock Shallots Smelts Quinces Walnuts Widgeon Spinach TomatoesINDEX SOUPS. PAGE A la Parmesan 6 Asparagus 1 Giblet 2 Green Pea 6 Hare 2 Julienne 3 Mulligatawny 4 Oyster 5 Eice 7 Spinach 8 FISH. Entrees—continued. PAGE Chicken— A ia Claremont 23 A la Crdme 28 Al’Italienne 33 A la Mayonnaise 34 Aux Champignons 30 Chaufroid of 31 Fillets of, A la Supreme 25 Legs of, a la Rovale 26 Minced, with Rice 27 With Croquettes of Rice... 29 With Tomato Puree..... 31 Cod Steaks, with Tomato Pur6e.... 10 Eels— Stewed 10 Stewed (brown) 11 Lobster- Cornets 11 8ouffle 12 Mullets a la Cardinal 13 Pike a l’Anglaise 14 Salmon— Mayonnaise of 14 Steaks, with Cucumber 15 Shrimp with Mayonnaise 18 Smelts (fried) 18 Soles— Boiled 15 Filets de, & la Cardinal 16 Filets de, a la Parmesan 17 Trout ^ la Victoria 20 Turbot— A la Fran$aise 19 Boiled 19 Fillets of, a la CrAme 20 Whitebait 21 Whiting- Fillet of, S, la Princesse. 21 Fried 22 ENTREES. Beef- Filet de Boeuf a la Rossine 22 Fillets of, with mixed Vege- tables 23 Minced, with Egg garnish... 24 Minced, aux Champignons... 25 Lamb—Curried 34 Kidney Croquettes 35 Pigeons — A la Rossine 38 Chaufroid of 39 Sweetbreads— Larded 36 In brown gravy 36 With Calf’s Brains 37 Tartlets a laPrincesse 43 Veal— A la Pomme de Terre 42 Fillets of, with Cucumbers 41 VEGETABLES. Artichokes— Globe, dressed..., 44 Jerusalem, a la CrAme 44 Asparagus— Al’Italienne 45 Beans— Broad 46 French, A la Parisienne 45 Broccoli 48 Brussels Sprouts au Gratin 46 Cabbage—Braized 47 Carrots—Braized 49 Cauliflower— Puree of 48 Au Gratin 48 Celery- Boiled 50 Fried 49 Marrow (Vegetable),stuffed 50 Mushrooms au Gratin 50 Onions, glazed 51139 INDEX, Vegetables—continued. PAGE Parsnips a la Francaise...... 51. Peas (green) a la Alaitre d’HOtel... 52 Potatoes— Au Gratin 53 Pried 52 Seakale (boiled) 53 Spinach a la Cr&me ••••• 53 Tomatoes— Dressed 55 Forced 54 Turnips Glaces 54 JELLIES AND CREAMS. A la Duchesse 79 Apple Charlotte.... 38 Apples, Puree of 78 Apricot Cream 84 Aspic Jelly 89 Blanc Mange 89 Chocolate Cream 85 Chartreuse of Oranges 85 Cider Jelly 73 Italian Cream 86 Lemon Mould 84 Maraschino Jelly 80 Pears (stewed) 82 Perry Jelly ... 82 Pistachio Cream 87 Pomegranate Jelly 81 Punch Jelly 82 RicealaCrbme 86 Strawberry Jelly 83 Tapioca Cream 88 SOUPPLES, OMELETTES, TRIPLES, & MERANGUES. Merangues £4 Omelettes— Sweet 91 Various 91 Souffles— Snow 90 Various 90 Trifles— Children’s 92 Cocoanut 93 Royal 93 GAME. Duck (Wild), roast 57 Game Pie, raised 62 game—continued. page Grilled Game til Grouse, roast 57 Guinea Fowl 57 Larks, roast 1 58 Partridge, roast 59 Pheasant, roast 58 Pigeons— Bordeaux 60 Roasted 60 Plover, roast 69 Quails, roast 61 Snipe, roast 6u Venison, roast Haunch 61 Woodcock, roast 61 PUDDINGS, &c. A la Concorde 66 A la Duchesse 67 A la Rojal 73 Arpley 64 Brandy Snaps, a la Crbme 65 Chocolate Pudding (cold) 66 Crystal Palace do 65 Cutlets en Surprise 67 Gateaux of Peaches 69 Ginger Pudding 6S Llandudno do 70 Lemon do 70 Lemon Cheese Roll 71 Lemon Cheese Sandwich 71 Lemon Cheeses 72 Orange Pudding 72 Penmaenmawr do 73 St. Claire do 74 Tapioca do 75 Vanilla do 75 Victoria Tarts 76 CAKES AND PASTRY. Almond Paste or Icing 102 Cakes— AlmoDd 95 Chocolate 95 Plum lul Pound 100 Snow 100 Chocolate Eclairs 97 Cocoanut Balls 96 Fanchonnettes 97 Genoese Gateaux 98 Icing- Almond ; 102 Chocolate 103 Water 103 Water (various) 104 White 103INDEX, 140 Cakes and Pastry—continued. PAGE Pastry— French Puff 104 Rich Short 105 Petites Gate*ux a l’Apricot 98 Petits Choux, with Almonds... 102 SAVOURIES AND BREAK- FAST DISHES. Chicken- Devilled 105 Grilled 106 Custards (Parmesan) 107 Darioles of Parmesan 106 Eggs— A la Crbme 108 A la Parmesan 107 Au Gratin 108 German Sandwiches 110 Haddock (Dried) on Toast 109 Ham Toast 109 Mushroom Toast 110 Scotch Woodcock Ill Tomato Fritters ill Tomato Toast 112 SALADS AND DRESSING-. Green Salad 112 Salad Dressing 114 Vegetable Salad 113 SAUCES, AlaFrancaise 116 Bread Sauce 115 Brown do 115 Cream do H5 Crbme do 116 Dutch do 116 German do 117 Italian do 117 Lemon do 118 Mayonnaise do 118 Melted Butter do 114 Mint do 118 Tomato do 119 White do- for Vegetables 119 White do. (sweet) 119 HOME-MADE WINES, &c. PAGE Apricot Effervescing Drink 126 Cherry Wine 121 Coltsfoot d ' 121 Currant (Black, Bed, or Mixed) do. 122 Elderberry do 122 Ginger do 123 Honey Beer 26 Ditto (Light) 126 Orange Wine 123 Parsnip do 124 Peach do 124 Rhubarb do 125 ICES, &c. Brown Bread Ice 129 Cherry Ice 129 Custard 128 Lemon Water Ice 130 [ Rice Cream 129 | Tangerine Ice 130 ! Vanilla Ice Cream 130 | Water Ices 130 I Ices— To Freeze 131 Moulding and Keeping 131 MISCELLANEOUS. Brow a Bread Crumbs 63 Croutons, for Soup 9 j Custards (Savoury), for Soup 7 Food in Season 13 >—137 i Forcemeat Balls. for Soup 3 I Marma'ade 127 j Mock Preserved Ginger : i27 [ Mince P es 77 Parsley (Fried) 119 Potato Border 120 Kies (for Curry) 120 Rice Border— For Minced Chicken or Veal... 27 Savoury 120 Sweet 121 ; Stock— Brown, for Boups, &c 8 White 9 Souffld Mixture 13 uaun141 LONDON, W. BY ROYAL LETTERS PATENT. MARSHALL’S PATENT FREEZER. COMPLETE VIEW IS PRAISED BY ALL WHO KNOW IT FOR CHEAPNESS in first cost. CLEANLINESS in working. ECONOMY in use. SIMPLICITY in construction. RAPIDITY in freezing. NO PACKING NECESSARY. NO SPATULA NECESSARY. Smooth and delicious Ice produced in Three Minutes. Sizes.—No. 1, to Freeze any quantity up to One Quart, £1 5 0. No. 2, for Two Quarts, £1 15 0. No. 3, for Four Quarts, £3 O O. No 4. for Six Quarts, £4 O O. Larger Sizes to order. TO BE OBTAINED FROM A. B. MARSHALL, 30.ft 32, MORTIMER STREET, REGENT STREET,142 LONDON, W. BY ROYAL'LETTERS PATENT. MARSHALL’S PATENT ICE CAVE. Charged ready for us®. USES. FOR SETTING- ICE PUDDINGS without the use of grease or chance of brine entering, and without the expense of special moulds. Ice puddings when moulded can be turned out and kept ready for use at any minute, so that the ice can be made and held ready before com- mencing to serve the dinner if necessary. FOR FREEZING SOUFFLES it offers great advantages, as the progress of freezing can be examined from time to time. The souffles can always be kept ready for use. FOR KEEPING ICES during Balls, Evening and Garden Parties, and for taking Ice Creams, etc., to Races, Picnics, etc. AND FOB REFRIGERATORS GENERALLY. SIZE No. 1 will hold one quart mould. Size 2, two quart moulds. Size 3, four quart moulds. Size 4 will hold six large champagne bottles. Sizes No. 2 and upwards can be used for icing mineral waters, etc., and kept in dining, smoking, and billiard rooms. PRICES. No. 1, £1 11s. 6d. No. 2, £2 2s. No. 3, £3 3s. No. 4, £4 4s. Larger and Special Sizes to Order. TO BE OBTAINED OP A. B. MARSHALL, 30 & 32, MORTIMER STREET, REGENT STREET,ELEVENTH EDITION. DOMESTIC COOKERY, WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO BY H. M. YOUNG (Diplomee as Demonstrator of Cookery, Medalist, fyc.). PRICE, Is. 6d. BY POST, Is. 9d. The above work will be found most useful and economical, containing 349 tried recipes and 153 pages. MAY BE OBTAINED FROM HE. NL. YOUNG, 27, Arpley Street, WARRINGTON.In 1 lb. „ 2/6; „ 2/10J. JS1ISS YOXJNQ WILD GIVE Practical Lessons AND Demonstrative Lectures ON COOKERY BY SPECIAL ARRANGEMENT. FOR PARTICULARS APPLY 27, ARPLEY STREET, WARRINGTON. PREPARED FOR AND SOLD BY H. M. YOUNG, 27, ARPLEY STREET, WARRINGTON. In ^ lb. Packets, 1/4; by Post, 1/7.A GOOD AND INEXPENSIVE ARTICLE. H. M. YOUNG’S SUPERIOR BAKING POWDER. This preparation possesses the following advantages over all others :—It is more economical in use. Puff pastry made with it requires less butter. No hurry required in putting the dishes into the oven directly they are made, as the action of the Powder does not commence until heat is applied, a slow oven being preferable. It does not deteriorate with age. Its composition is based on chemical law, and, though differing from other powders, it is guaranteed harmless, and will not disagree with the most susceptible stomach. MANUFACTURED BY H. M. YOUNG & Co., ARPLEY STREET, WARRINGTON. Sold by most Grocers and Chemists, in Packets, Id., 3d., 6d., and Is. The Is. Packets may be obtained from H. M. Young & Co., Arpley Street, Warrington. Post free.5 COMPANY, has been produced, after many FLOR-ADOR FOOD. a delicious product of the Wheat-berry, manu- factured solely by the FLOR-ADOR FOOD expensive experiments, to meet the long-felt want, so often expressed by medical and scientfic men, as well as by the general community, for some light, palatable, wholesome, and nutritive substance to take the place of Corn Flour, Arrowroot, Sago, Tapioca, &c., which possess no flesh-forming constituents whatever, and are, all of them, starch pure and simple. FLOR-ADOR is quite as palatable and easy of digestion as any of these substances ; it can be used in the same form and for the same purposes ; whilst it combines in itself all the dements necessary for the nourishment of the body. It is suited to the robust and the invalid alike. An article of diet, as well as a luxury, for the healthy ; an invaluable adjunct to the sickroom and nursery. FLOR-ADOR is made in three grades or sizes, viz.:—LARGE-GRAINED, MEDIUM-GRAINED, and FINE-GRAINED. LARGE-GRAINED FLOR-ADOR can be used with advantage in clear and Brown Soup instead of Maccaroni or Vermicelli, or as a White Soup without stock. It makes excellent Porridge, having all the strength-giving properties of Oatmeal, whilst being much more easily digested. It makes delicious, sweet, and savoury Omelettes, and is greatly to be preferred to grated bread for Fig and Date Puddings, &c., &c. MEDIUM-GRAINED FLOR-ADOR is best adapted for Baked and Boiled Puddings. By its use Suet Dumplings, with or without fruit, are rendered more easy of digestion. It can be used with advantage in the baking of Bread. FINE-GRAINED FLOR-ADOR is most suitable for Blanc-Manges and Creams of all sorts ; also for thickening Soup and making Sauces ; for making Yorkshire Pudding, Pancakes, Apple Fritters and Dumplings, and for Cakes, Biscuits, Buns, &c., &c. The most digestible Pastry is made by using FINE- GRAINED FLOR-ADOR, with Flour in equal proportions. Taken through the sucking bottle or otherwise — Fine-grained Flor-ador is the perfect Baby’s Food. TRY IT I Sold by Grocers, Corn Merchants, &c., in IJd., 3d , and 6d. packets, by Chemists in Is. tins; and in 7 & 14-lb. bags, large grained, at 4Jd. per lb. Dr. G. B. Clark, M.P., says:—“I have used Flor-ador for some time, and find it to be a very palatable and valuable article of diet. It is a preparation of wheat contain- ing all the elements necessary for nutrition, and will be found of great use in the nursery.” Dr. Wallace, F.R.S.E., F.I.C., F.C.S., Public Analyst for the City of Glasgow, the Counties of Lanark and Renfrew, &c., reports as follows, viz.:—“I have made a careful chemical analysis of a sample of Medium-Grained Flor-ador, and have found It to con- tain 12-94 per cent, of albuminoids (flesh formers). It is evidently a product of Wheat of the finest quality, and is a delicious, readily-digestible, and very nourishing food, equally suitable for Invalids and Children, and for general family use.” Dr. A. B. Griffiths, F.R.S., F.C.S., Member of the Chemical Society of St Peters- burgh, Principal and Lecturer on Chemistry in the School of Science, Lincoln, <fcc., says : “ Flor-ador is an excellent food, especially for those suffering with indigestion and similar disorders of the stomach. I can in every way recommend Flor-ador to the public in general as a most useful and nourishing food." Ask your Grocer for a sample of FLOR-ADOR gratis, or the Flor-ador Food Co., Southampton Street, Hoiborn London, will send three half-pound samples —one of each grade-for 10d., in stamps. Purchasers an requested to see that they gel “ FLOR-ADOR," and not any imitations thereof inferior qualities being often substituted for the sake of extra profit, is c. FLOR - ADORRECIPES WITH FLOR-ADOR FOOD. By H. M. YOUNG-. FLOR-ADOR CAKE. Soz. Flor-ador Jlb.butter ilk sugar 6oz. flour 1 teaspoonful “H. M. Young’s” baking powder 4 eggs 3oz. mixed peel finely minced Grated rind of £ a lemon Beat the butter to a cream, add the eggs well beaten alternately with the flour sifted, then the Flor-ador, baking powder, and lemon rind; beat thoroughly 5 minutes, and, last of all, stir in the peel; pour into a plain mould lined with buttered paper ; bake in a moderate oven IJ> hours. }lb. Flor-ador 3oz. butter 1 egg FLOR-ADOR BISCUITS. I A little essence i ilb flour 3oz. sugar teaspoonful “ H. M. Young’s” baking pow- der Rub the butter into the flour, add Flor-ador, sugar, and baking powder, moisten with the egg ; roll out about | inch thick, and stamp out into various shapes, and bake about 10 minutes in a rather slow oven. FLOR-ADOR ICE CREAM. 1 pint milk I £oz. Flor-ador I 1 teaspoonful vanilla 2 eggs | 2oz. sugar | A few drops almond essence Mix the Flor-ador with a little cold milk and pour over remainder boiling ; pour back into pan and boil slowly 5 minutes, then add sugar and eggs beaten, and stir over a very gentle heat until it thickens ; allow this to get quite cold, then freeze. Put into freezing machine about 21b. of broken ice and lib. of rough salt. ALMOND CREAM. 4oz. Flor-ador Food I 4oz. castor sugar I A few drops almond 1 quart milk | 3oz. almonds, roughly chopped | essence Mix the Flor-ador and sugar with a little cold milk, boil the remainder and pour over Flor-ador ; put back into saucepan and boil gently 5 minutes, add essence and 2oz of almonds blanched and roughly chopped ; pour into a wetted china mould, allow to stand until cold and firm, turn out and decorate with the remainder of the almonds blanched, cut lengthways and stuck all over. This may be coloured if liked with a few drops of cochineal. CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 4oz Flor-ador I 1 teaspoonful vanilla 14oz. sugar 4oz. grated chocolate | 1 quart milk Mix Flor-ador, sugar, and chocolate with a little cold milk, pour over the remainder of the milk boiling, pour back into the saucepan, and boil 5 minutes; add vanilla, and pour into a wetted china mould ; when quite firm, turn out. 2 eggs 3oz. butter 3oz. castor sugar i pint of cream BASKET A LA CREME. loz. desicated cocoanut 2oz. Flor-ador 2oz. flour A little flavouring A little jam A little angelica, about 2£in. long Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs, flour, Flor-ador, and essence; beat a few minutes, butter some small dariol moulds and dust them with castor sugar, then with flour; three parts fill them with the mixture, and bake about twenty minutes in a slow oven, turn out and take out the centres with a small knife, spread round the outside a little jam and sprinkle with the cocoanut, fill centres with jam, whip up the cream until stiff, flavour and sweeten, put into forcing bag and rose tube, force out into rose shape on the top of the jam in each basket. Cut the angelica into thin strips, and arrange to form the handles.