THE FEEDING OP INFANTS. 25 Tlie food of the mother or nurse while suckling the child is of importance; she should be fed well, but not too richly. She should take during the day about a pound of meat, about a quarter of a pound each of butter (or fat) and sugar, a pound and a quarter of bread, vegetables, and light puddings, and a small quantity of salt, together with three pints of fluid. The fluid may consist of water or porter or beer, but beer makes the milk thin and watery, though it increases the quantity. Malt liquors should be taken at meals, not between meals. The above diet is for average eaters ; those who are accustomed to eat little in ordinary health will require proportionally less food. At first after her confinement a woman has usually no appetite for meat, and should therefore be fed with boiled milk and arrowroot, chicken broth, custards, eggs, and such light food, care being taken that she has enough to cause a sufficient secretion of milk. She should not be allowed to overload her stomach, but she should also not be suffered to become very hungry. For other information about milk, see the chapter on milk diet. After the child has attained the age of six months some kind of farinaceous food should be added to its diet. Of farinaceous foods the best is Chapman's entire wheat flour; second to this come Nestle's food, Savory and Moore's food, Mellin's food, and the Albany food. If the child be constipated, lentil flour, or a tea- spoonful of coarse, sweet oatineal may be given instead of the flour in the morning, or the milk may be mixed with water in which brown bread has been boiled. Farinaceous food should not be given oftener than twice a day. A child's meals should be arranged as follows: Diet 1.—(From the swaih to the eighth month.) 7 a.m.—Chapman's wheat flour, or one of the above foods, and a teacupful of milk. 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.—Half a pint of milk, with water or lime- water in proportion to the child's power of digestion. 6 p.m.—Same as at 7 a.m. 11 p.m.—Same as at 10 a.m. or 2 p.m. Diet 2.—(From the eighth to the tenth month.) Same as diet No. 1, but substituting the yolk of a raw egg beaten up in a teacupful of milk for the meal at 2 p.m. on alter°- nate days. Diet 3.—{From the tenth to the twelfth month.) 7 a.m.—Same as No. 1, or if there be no constipation Savory and Moore's peptonised cocoa and milk. 10.30 a.m.—Same as No. 1. 2 p.m.—A teacupful of beef-tea (or of veal and chicken broth with a little cream and sugar added) and a rusk. 5.30 p.m. and 11 p.m.—Same as No. 1.