ENEMATA AND PEEDIGESTED FOODS. 10 tasty, whether eaten spread on bread and butter as a sandwich, or made into a soup; but smaller quantities should be used than are given in the directions. Benger's Peptonised Beef Jelly (2-3, 3, 4, 5) has the same qualities as the above. It may be eaten cold as a jelly or warmed as a beef-tea. Brand's Peptones of Beef, "Veal, or Chicken (2-3, 3, 4, 5) are not so nice as either of the above, but make a good change. Brand's Essence of Beef, Mutton, Veal, or Chicken may be used for making broths, or eaten cold as a jelly; but they have all a peculiar flavour, which to some people is unpleasant. The Concentrated Beef-tea is a convenient form for the speedy pre- paration of beef-tea, when there is not time to cook the beef itself. Valentine's Meat-Juice (2, 3, 4, 5) may be used as a substitute for " fluid beef," and, like it, should only be warmed by placing the vessel containing it in hot water for a few minutes. Liebig's Extract is useful for flavouring soups and gravies, but is not in itself nutritious. It is, however, a good stimulant, especially for women in confinements. Carnrick's Peptonoid is disagreeable to the taste, and not always digestible. Pancreas Preparations.—Take off the skin from the sweet- bread of a pig, sheep, or ox. Wipe the pancreas dry with a cloth, and carefully remove all the fat. Mince the pancreas very finely to a pulp, and pass this through a hair-sieve, scraping the pulp from the bottom of the sieve with a knife. Add this juice to the food to be digested. If salt or meat-extract be added to this juice, it may be kept in a dry, cool place, in a wide-necked bottle or jar, corked and covered with bladder or parchment; it should not be kept more than seven days. The proportion of meat-extract should be one- third of the pancreatic juice. "Watery Extract of Pancreas.—Skin the sweet-bread, and remove all fat as above; pour on it half-a-pint of cold water, add a little salt, and let it stand for five or six hours; then pass it through a fine hair sieve without pressure. This watery extract should be used fresh. Pancreatin or Liquor Pancreaticus (Benger, or Savory and Moore).—These preparations added to the food make it more easy of digestion, but they should not be added to any food which is too hot to be sipped; nor should the food, to which they have been added, be warmed up again soon afterwards. Articles of diet to which pancreatic extracts have been added should be consumed at once, as they acquire an unpleasantly bitter taste if allowed to stand for more than half an hour. The quantities used will vary according to the age and condition of the patient.