VEGETABLES. 123 Lamb's Lettuce makes a fairly wholesome salad. Purslane is also used for salads, and is said to be refreshing and antiscorbutic. Garden Orach is said to make a better salad than lettuce; it is combined with sorrel for this purpose, and is digestible. It makes also a good substitute for spinach. Cold Boiled Table Vegetables such as carrots, turnips, peas, cauliflower, and other greens, may all be employed as salads. The dish may be made substantial by the addition of small fillets of sole or trout, and its flavour may be heightened, if desired, by morsels of haddock, sardine, &c. (Sir Sy. Thompson.) Samphire, pickled, makes a good addition to salad, is diuretic, laxative, and helps the secretion of bile. Juniper Berries are also a good addition to salads, and assist the digestion of this dish. They are diaphoretic and diuretic. Pimpernel is also good in salads, as a, relish, and the same may be said of Nasturtium Leaves and the young shoots of Tarragon. Mixed Salads are of various sorts, e.g. endive, marigold, cucumber, hard-boiled eggs (pounded if the digestion be delicate) with mustard, vinegar, oil, salt, and pepper. Mustard and Cress make an excellent and wholesome salad, which will sometimes revive a jaded appetite. Stewed Haricots (Cold) with sliced Tomatoes make a good salad. There are several herbs which are not much used in England as vegetables, although they are esteemed abroad. Of these are: Pennel, which is eaten in Italy like celery, and is aromatic, stimulating, and diuretic. Sorrel: the young leaves are laxative and excite appetite, but may cause or increase diseases of the kidney and bladder as well as gravel, and do not suit weak, irritable stomachs. Orach, eaten with sorrel to correct its acidity, and is light and digestible. All-good, of which the leaves are eaten as a substitute for spinach, the stalks for asparagus; it is digestible and refreshing. Couch-grass, wholesome and agreeable. Scurvy-grass, of which the young leaves are eaten like cress, and are antiscorbutic and stimulating. Skirret has a sweet, aromatic root, which is eaten boiled, and is astringent and digestible. Laver (a seaweed) is more nutritious than green vegetables. Angelica is ai'omatic, stomachic, and diaphoretic. Iceland Moss gives almost pure dry mucilage, and makes very nourishing bread, which is useful in diabetes. Salep, boiled in milk or water, makes a digestible and nutritious jelly {v. p. 46).