100 MEAT. in particular are generally easy of digestion. Lamb is not gene- rally suitable for dyspeptic persons, but frequently the con- comitant mint sauce is as much to blame as the lamb. Red meats are far more nourishing and generally more digestible than the above meats. Mutton, especially when boiled or grilled in chops, is usually the first meat allowed to convalescents, being the most easy of digestion. The lean only should be given in early convales- cence ; the fat is best used mashed up with potatoes; mutton- fat with milk is very nourishing. Mutton Chops grilled are very easy of digestion. They should not be too thick, and, if not thoroughly cooked, are often repulsive to convalescents. They should be served dry, and not greasy. English invalids will probably be satisfied with less than the half dozen chops allowed for a German. Loin of Mutton is rather too l-ich a dish for early conva- lescence, the fibres of the meat being close of texture, and therefore indigestible. Neck of Mutton is more wholesome than the loin, and gives better chops and cutlets for early convalescence. Leg of Mutton should be boiled rather than roasted for invalids, and their portion should be cut from the thick end, without fat. The " Pope's eye " may be reserved for the healthy. Leg of mutton pickled in hock for six to fourteen days, according to the time of year, after having been well beaten and freed from fat, is as good as venison. Shoulder is generally too rich and often too stringy to be easily digestible. Kidneys are no food for people of delicate digestion ; even for healthy people they should not be over-cooked, as then they become hard and leathery and difficult of digestion. Sheep's heart is not wholesome. Sheep's tails are rich and nourishing, but difficult to digest. Sheep's feet, if not too rich, are digestible. Sheep's tongues stewed in a not over-rich gravy are a delicate and tasty and easily digestible dish. They may also be grilled. Beef is the best and the most nourishing of all meats, but un- fortunately it comes low in the scale as far as its digestibility is concerned. It should not be given until quite towards the end of convalescence, and many dyspeptics are unable to digest it. Beef-steak is the best way of cooking beef for invalids. The beef should be hung (not beaten) till tender, and grilled, but not so much cooked as to be dry—it should have "the gravy in it."— It is not so good when stewed. The fillet makes much the most tender steak, but is not so well-flavoured as the entrecote. Sirloin is as good in flavour but richer than beef-steak. It must be roasted, not baked.