99 MEAT. a-ainst the grain, and eaten in small mouthfuls thoroughly ^Melt'is classified according to the colour of its fibres viz. white (vealpork, chicken, pheasant), red (beef mutton partridge, lose) deep red (venison, roebuck, wild boar), and black (hare, skylark) Vbite meats are generally gelatinous, not very nour- ishing and not easy of digestion, and require spiced seasoning to give them flavour, and to enable the stomach to assimilate thKid of two or three months old, is generally easy of digestion but has often so rank a smell as to prevent persons who are not in good health from eating this meat. It is, besides, difficult to F Veal is an indigestible and innutritions meat, and though less unwholesome when boiled, is best avoided altogether. The lat is especially indigestible. . . . Sweetbreads, however, are excellent food for the sick, being very easy of digestion and nourishing. They may be given m quite early convalescence. ■ Calf s Kidneys are more digestible than sheep s kidneys, and of better flavour. . _•' . , „ , . „ Calves' Feet are also digestible, and make excellent jelly. Calf s Head is also an excellent dish, whether simply boiled or en tortue, only it should not be so highly spiced as tete de veau en tortue generally is. The brains are too fat to be digestible. Calf's Tongue, if cooked till quite tender, is a wholesome dish. It may also be lightly smoked and salted. Calf s Liver is not easy of digestion. Pork is, perhaps, even more unwholesome than veal, and is only digestible by farm labourers. Pig's Feet are generally digestible. Brawn is mostly too rich to be wholesome, but suits some people. Bacon, if cut thin, not too highly salted, and with a proper proportion of fat and lean, and thoroughly cooked, is very digestible and nutritious, and is sometimes used as a substitute for cod-liver oil. Hams require good curing, soaking, and cooking, and not to be too highly salted. If all these conditions be fulfilled, and the ham cut in very thin slices against the grain, it is not only nour- ishing but highly digestible. It should not, however, be eaten too freely, or it may cause biliousness. Sucking-pig is too rich for most people, but is so excellent a dish that it seems a pity to forbid it altogether. It should be roasted and basted with lemon-juice, and served with the same condiment. Lamb should not be less than six months old. It is more wholesome and more nutritions than veal. The cutlets and obops