90 GAME AND WILD BIRDS. parsley, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Warm all up without letting it boil, and serve hot with sippets of toast. Mauviettes a la Minute (4, 5, 6).—Fry three larks an butter over a quick lire, with a small pinch of salt. When they are nearly done (in about seven minutes) add some stock, one or two chopped up mushrooms and some chopped parsley. Boil up once, add a glass of sherry or other white wine, and serve with sippets of toast and slices of lemon. Mauviettes en Cotelettes (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Remove all the flesh from the breasts of four larks, and shape cutlets out of this flesh, fastening a claw in each cutlet. Season with pepper, salt, and a teaspoonful ol lemon-juice. Fry in battel- over a quick nre tor about eight to ten minutes. Broiled Larks (4, 5, 6). Roast Larks (3-4,4, 5, 6). , • , , . 3 L *, Roast Thrush. (4, 5, 6).—Pick two thrushes, but do not gut them; cover each with a slice of bacon and a vine-leaf or paper, roast them for twenty minutes before a clear fire, remove the bacon, and serve on toast with lemon in slices. Roast Plover (4, 5, 6).—Pluck but do not draw a plover; cover it with slices of bacon, and wrap it in oiled paper; roast it on the spit before a clear fire for ten to fifteen minutes Put slices of toast in the dripping-pan to catch the gravy, and serve on this toast. (Remove the bacon and paper before serving.; Pheasant, Boasted (3-4, 4, 5, 6), should be filled with pieces of gravy beef before roasting, and the steak withdrawn betore the bird is served. Rabbit (6) should be eaten fresh. Boast (6).—Covered with slices of bacon. , Grilled (6).—Split it lengthwise, wrap it m buttered paper. Grill it, and serve with anchovy butter. , ,, . . , Fried (6).—Out up the rabbit, and soak the pieces for an houi in vinegar seasoned with salt, pepper, and chopped pars ey and thyme; drain and wipe the pieces, flour them, and fry them in butter over a clear fire. Serve with tomato sauce. Bagout of Babbit and Bacon (6).—Pieces, of rabbit and thin slices of bacon stewed in butter seasoned with pepper, salt, two slices of lemon and a bay-leaf. Simmer for half an hour or until tender. Put in a glass of port wine, let it all boil up once, and 86 Hare, Leveret {6).-Boasted (6). Jugged (6). The liver ShTerr£i0e of HaJe, 4a (6).-Take a fowl a partridge, a pound of veal, a pound of mutton, and a pound of bacon; season with an ounce of salt. Cut all the meat up (having Previously removed the bones and skin). Fry the back of a hai,, without bones or skin in butter for ten minutes and add it to the above,