11 MILK AND ITS PREPARATIONS. The various foods for invalids, such as Savory and Moore's, Nestle's, and Mellin's, are sometimes exceedingly useful when the stomach is incapable of properly digesting farinaceous food. Malt-extract or Maltine should be added to beef-tea and soups to make them more nourishing, but the addition should only be made when the soup or meat-tea is cool enough to be sipped, as a greater heat destroys the virtue of the maltine. III. MILK AND ITS PREPARATIONS. All authorities agree that milk is the most perfect food, and indeed the only perfect food, in that it contains all the elements of food in their proper proportions. Milk is the food which nourishes us during the first months of life, and to milk we recur in most severe illnesses in after-life, especially when an easily digestible and nourishing food is necessary. Human milk is naturally the most suitable milk food; next to it in composition comes the milk of the mare, especially if a little sugar be added to the latter, but mare's milk is too rare and too expensive for general use. Goat's milk has a rank flavour, and contains more fat than woman's or cow's milk, though it is often better digested than cow's milk. The milk of the sheep contains such a large proportion of solids, that it soon cloys the appetite; this milk also contains more fat and cheesy material than cow's or woman's milk. It is a pity that asses are not more commonly bred in this country, as they can be fed cheaply, are very hardy, their flesh makes good meat, and their milk is very like human milk. Cow's milk is the most common substitute for the mother's milk, both in the feeding of children, and in daily use among adults. It contains a larger proportion of solid constituents, i. e. of fat (butter), of cheese-forming material, and of salts than does human milk, while woman's milk contains more sugar. It is of cow's milk that this chapter will more especially treat. It is very important that the cows should be healthy, as some vaccine diseases are transmissible by the milk. It is also neces- sary that the cows should have plenty of fresh air, should have clean and well-ventilated shelter, and should be properly fed. Th eir food should consist of grass or sweet hay with the occa- sional admixture of a small quantity of carrots, parsnips or beetroot. _ Cows fed on bad potatoes, brewers' grains, or refuse from distilleries give unwholesome milk. Potato-refuse as fodder is said to cause eczema, turniptops to excite diarrhoea, and some kinds of oil-cake to induce colic in the milk-consumer. The milk from cows far gone with calf, and from those which