PISH. 79 the fillets on this bed, pour some melted butter over them, and simmer for eight minutes; then turn the fillets, add a wine- glassful of white wine, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice; simmer five minutes longer. Serve with the sauce from the stewpan. Boiled Fillets of Whiting (3, 4, 5, 6).—Put the fillets into boiling water deep enough to cover them, with an ounce of salt to each quart of water; simmer gently for ten to twelve minutes, skimming them occasionally. Drain, and serve with a slice of lemon. .. ~ Whiting au Gratin or Fillets of Whiting an G-ratm (4, 5, 6).—Prepared just like soles au gratin. Fillets of Whiting a la Orly (4, 5, 6).—Prepared like fillets of soles a la Orly. Whiting au Vin Blanc (4, 5, 6).—Prepared like soles au vin blanc. Whiting aux Fines Herbes (4, 5, 6).—Prepared like soles aux fines lierbes. Soles aux Fines Herbes or Fillet of Soles aux Fines Herbes (4, 5, 6).—Having prepared the soles or fillets, put them into a dish with an ounce of butter, two pincbes of salt, the juice of a lemon, and a wineglassful of water. Bake for twenty minutes in a brisk or moderately quick oven. Make the sauce as directed in sole au vin blanc; after cooking for twenty minutes, put the liquor in which the sole has been heated into the sauce, and add two ounces of butter and a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. Take off the fire, and stir till the butter is melted. Pour the sauce over the sole, and serve. Sole or Fillets of Sole au Gratin (4, 5, 6).—Put the fillets into a dish with an ounce of butter, two pinches of salt, and one of pepper, and two wineglassfuls of Oliablis (or a teaspoonful of lemon-juice), sprinkle tbem with grated cheese, cover the dish closely, and cook them for a quarter of an hour in a braise or moderately quick oven. Fillets of Soles a la Orly (4, 5, 6).—Remove tbe skin from the fillets; rub them with lemon-juice, mixed with salt and pepper, and let them soak for two hours. Dry them on a napkin, dip them in milk, and cover them with bread crumbs. Fry them in hot oil. Drain them on blotting paper. Serve with fried parsley and tomato sauce, or with a consomme of the remains of the soles and white wine clarified, or with slices of lemon. Soles in Turban (4, 5, 6).—Arrange round a plug of bread in the shape of a turban a layer of slices of bacon, and outside this a layer of fillets of sole. Pour over all melted butter and lemon- juice; cover with slices of bacon, and then with oiled paper, and bake in the oven. When cooked remove the bacon, the paper, and the bread, and pour tomato source into the cavity of the turban. Shad (5, 6).—Fillets fried in butter.