113 SWEETS. Barberry and Cherry Marmalades are wholesomely acid and good for bilious people. Strawberry, Easpberry, and Peach Marmalades are not so wholesome as the above-mentioned sorts. The above remarks on marmalades hold good also of jams. Currant Jam is rather too acid for some digestions. Pastry should be avoided by all persons whose digestion is at all delicate. The contents of fruit pies may generally be eaten with impunity, if they are not made too sweet. The under crust of a jam tart, and the under surface of the crust of a fruit pie, are exceedingly unwholesome. For remarks on Cakes, Biscuits, and Light Puddings, see VII, " Farinaceous Foods." Custards are almost as wholesome as milk diet. Omelettes if well made are digestible. Fritters are not very easily digested. Blanc-manges are wholesome. Charlottes and Trifles would be more wholesome without alcohol. Only very small quantities are allowable, and not even these in severe illness. Ices are sometimes useful in illness, where ice is indicated, but they should not be given too freely. Dyspeptics should only eat them after a full meal, not on an empty stomach. Ices should be eaten by no one who is hot or tired. Strawberry Salad (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Pick and put into a dish some ripe strawberries with powdered sugar, a pinch of powdered cinnamon, and some claret or red wine. Stir gently. Stewed Rhubarb (4, 5, 6).—Out up in small pieces six sticks of rhubarb, add a tablespoonful of moist sugar, and four table- spoonfuls of water, and place in a covered jar near the fire until the juice is extracted; pulp through a sieve. (A wineglassful of milk may be mixed with the pulp if desired.) Gooseberry Pool (4-5, 5, 6).—Put a pint of green gooseberries (freed from their tops and tails) into a jar with a tablespoonful of water and some moist sugar. Put the jar into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil until it can be pulped through a colander Press it through, and add gradually three quarters of a pint of hot milk and a beaten-up egg. Sweeten to taste. Rhubarb Fool (4-5, 5, 6) is prepared in the same way. Apricots in Sago (5, 6).—Boil twelve apricots in half a pint of syrup made with crushed sugar-candy; pass the syrup of apricots through a cloth ; and boil sago, previously washed and Boaked, m the strained syrup; when it is nearly turned to jelly add a glass of sherry, and serve with dried candied apricots. Apricot Pudding (6).—Scald in boiling syrup some apricots (not too ripe) until they are soft. Drain them, and take out the stones, and blanch the kernels. Put at the bottom of a bakino- 8 *