84 FISH. the slices of salmon, with salt and pepper. Fry over a quick fire, and serve with lemon in slices, or tomato sauce. Baked Salmon with Tomato Sauce (5, 6). Boiled Herring (5, 6).—The fish should be cleaned, scraped,, and gutted, and put into boiling water with the juice of a lemon, and a little salt. Let it boil very slowly for ten minutes. Serve with a slice of lemon or with mustard sauce. Baked Herring (5, 6).—Clean, scrape, and gut the fish, and cut off the head. Put it in a pie-dish with a clove, allspice, a peppercorn, and a small pinch of salt, and a wineglassful each of water and vinegar. Bake in a slow oven for half an hour. Serve cold, with vinegar and water strained for sauce. Fresh Herring (5, 6).— Cut off the head, tail, and fins; scrape, gut, and clean the fish. Split it and remove the back- bone, close it up, and grill slowly for four minutes, and then very quickly for three minutes, turning it frequently. Serve with butter, mustard sauce, lemon, or maitre d'hotel sauce. Carp should be laid in fresh water for twenty-four hours before cooking, if they have been caught in muddy water. Fried Carp (5, 6).—Split tbe carp down the back, without separating the two pieces. Remove the scales and gills, gut the fish, and lay the roe aside. Steep the fish and the roe'in milk for five minutes. Sprinkle them with a little salt, and roll them well in baked flour. Fry the carp for eight or ten minutes, and at the end of half that time put the roe in with the fish. It is cooked when the flesh is of a fine pale yellow and firm. Serve with slices of lemon. Grilled Carp (5, 6).—Scale and gut a carp, rub it with oil, put it on the grill eight minutes on each side, season with salt and pepper and serve with white sauce, or slices of lemon. Anchovy Toast (4-5, 5, 6).—Soak the anchovies in warm water, and change the water several times. Toast three or four slices of bread (four inches long by one inch wide). Dip the toast in a sauce of oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, and lay on each slice an anchovy cut in half lengthwise, the bones having been previously removed. Anchovy Salad (6).—Well wash the anchovies in warm water, changing the water several times, soak them in Sauterne or Chablis, sprinkle them with chopped parsley, and place them in a salad of cut lettuce. Flounders au Gratin.—Like Sole au gratin (4, 5, 6) (v. p. 79). Boiled Flounders (3-4, 4, 5, 6), with sauce Hollandaise (5,6).—Boil the flounders gently for a quarter of an hour in enough water to cover it, having previously added one and a half ounces of salt to the water. Drain, and serve with sauce Hollandaise. Fried Flounders (4, 5, 6), cooked like Soles a la orly) (p. 79), and served with parsley and lemon, or with caper sauce.