38 SOUPS, BROTHS, AND BEEF-TEA. quenelles of whiting, and add to the tureen before serving. (Sir Hy. Thompson from Gouffe.) Simple Fish Soup (3, 4, 5, 6).—Put three ounces of butter into a stewpan ; add two carrots sliced; one onion and a shalut in thin slices; a clove, a little thyme, and some parsley. Pry them gently until of a reddish tint; then add three pints of cold water. Let it boil, skimming occasionally. Then add a small fresh haddock, bones and all, cut up into pieces, and the head and bones of two whitings, setting aside the fillets. A cod's head, or that of a turbot; or the fresh bones, head, and fins of a sole, the fillets of which are required for another dish, may take the place of the foregoing. Add some salt and a little pepper. Let all simmer together for two hours gently at the corner of the fire; take out the bones, and pass all the rest through a coarse strainer. Divide the fillets of whiting into two or three small portions each, boil for a few minutes in some of the stock, add a little fresh green chervil and parsley chopped, not too finely, and serve all together in a tureen. If the soup is preferred somewhat thicker in body than this receipt produces, let it be made so by adding some farinaceous matter in small quantity ; the proper form being a tablespoonful of white " roux " (i. e. a little fiour well mixed with butter in a stewpan over the fire and not allowed to brown), and this is un- questionably an improvement. It is unnecessary to clarify fish soups; if other garnish is desired, quenelles of whiting may be substituted for the fillets. (Sir Henry Thompson.) Mock Turtle Soup (4, 5, 6).—Take two pounds of knuckle of veal, and two pounds of shin of beef, and cut them up in dice two inches square, put them in a saucepan with a very little chopped thyme, sweet marjoram and basil, parsley, half a pound of chopped mushrooms, and a pinch of cayenne pepper, and add half a pound of butter; stew all til 1 they are of a red colour, and dredge in half a pound of flour, or enough to dry up the butter ; keep the saucepan three minutes longer on the fire, stirring all the time ; then add a pint and a half of consomme, three pints of grand bouillon, and half a bottle of dry Madeira, salt, pepper, and a dash of cayenne. Stir until boiling begins, then put in half a calf's head (which you have previously blanched and boned), and simmer for three hours. Take out the head, and clean all the herbs off it and let it cool. Strain the soup through a cullender, add a pint of blond de veau, and simmer for one hour, skimming as often as a scum forms. Out the skin of the calf's head with- out the fat or meat into strips an inch long and a quarter of an inch wide, and simmer these strips for twenty minutes in grand bouillon, then drain, and put them in the tureen. Strain the soup and pour it over the calf's head, add half a teaspoonful of