FISH. 78 dory, in a tin or plated copper dish adapted to the form and size of the fish, but a little deeper than the thickness of it, so as to retain all the juices, which by exposure to the heat will flow out. First, however, the surface of the fish is to be lightly spread with butter, and a morsel or two added round it; the dish is then to be placed in a Dutch or American oven, in front of a clear fire. . . . It is necessary to guard against over-roasting so as to dry the fish and evaporate the gravy; and if through carelessness this condition has been reached, the fish should be moistened by the addition of a little light stock before serving. . . . Serving is always done on the dish in which the cooking has taken place. . . . Red mullet so prepared is inimitable, while a fresh haddock takes higher rank by being thus treated. For the working man, some fillets of plaice or skate, with a slice or two of bacon and some previously boiled haricots, are a most savoury meal and nu- tritious. {Sir Hy. Thompson.) (3-4, 4, &c.) Steamed Fish (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Remove the skin and take off a fillet; wash and dry the fillet, sprinkle half a pinch of salt and a few drops of lemon-juice over it. Place the fillet in a buttered dish, and set the dish over a pan of boiling water and steam for five to ten minutes. Serve with lemon-juice. Cheap Fish Stew (4,5, 6).—Take thi-ee or four pounds of hake, ling, skate, or haddock, and. 1 lb. of " cuttings or trimmings," which are the best part of the fish for stock-making. Remove all the fish from the bones, break up or pound the latter and set aside with any portion of head there may be and the cuttings. Put into a saucepan, over the fire, two ounces of lard and two or three onions sliced, and let them fry until brown; then add two quarts of water aud all the pounded bones and trimmings, some parsley or other green herbs, pepper and salt. Let the whole simmer for three hours. Strain out the bones, bits of skin, &c, add the fish in pieces, and boil gently for ten to fifteen minutes. Thicken with flour mixed smoothly with a small portion of stock, and added before finishing. {Sir Hy. Thompson.) Tapioca and Cod-liver (3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil two ounces of tapioca till tender in a quart of water, drain it in a cullender, then put it back in the pan; season with a little salt and pepper, add a quarter of a pint of milk, and put over it half a pound of fresh cod-liver cut in four pieces. Set the pan near the fire to simmer slowly for half an hour or a little more till the liver is quite cooked. Press on it with a spoon, so as to get as much oil into the tapioca as pos- sible. Take away the liver and mix the tapioca. If too thick add a little milk, then boil for a few minutes; stir round, add a little salt and pepper, and serve. {Alexis Soyer, apud Dr. Broadbent.) Stewed Fillets of Whiting (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Melt some butter iu a deep stewpan, and sprinkle over it some finely chopped parsley, salt, and a little grated nutmeg and lemon-peel. Plaoe