94 POULTRY AND EGGS. (breast uppermost), let it boil, and skim carefully. Then let it simmer as slowly as possible for three-quarters of an bour. Remove tbe bacon, and serve with white sauce. Fricasseed Chicken (4, 5, 6).—Draw, singe, wash, and cut up into joints a young chicken, but do not remove the skin. Blanch it in warm water for an hour, and then put it into cold water ; wipe it, and dredge it with baked flour. Put it into a saucepan con- taining enough milk to cover the pieces of chicken, with two small onions, mushrooms, and a little lemon-peel, two pinches of salt, and two of pepper. Boil, skim, and let it simmer gently for half an hour or three-quarters of an hour. Beat up the yolks of two eggs and stir them into the sauce with the strained juice of a lemon for three minutes. Serve with the sauce poured over the chicken. ,■,«.', n . Cold Stewed Fowl (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Skin an old fowl and cut it up • stew it gently with just enough water to cover it, till the bones separate easily from the meat. Remove the bones, mince the meat, and flavour it with a little salt, pepper, and grated lemon- peel • put it back in the stewpan with the liquor m which it was stewed, and boil for five minutes, stirring all well together. Pour it into a mould till quite cold. Potted Chicken and Ham (4-5, 5, 6).—Mince up a quarter of a pound of cold roast chicken with two ounces of ham ; remove all the skin and sinew; pound well together with two ounces of fresh butter, and a little salt and pepper, to a smooth paste. Put the paste into pots and cover the pots with clarified butter. To be used in sandwiches. . . . Chicken Quenelles (4-5, 5, 6).—Mince half a pound of chicken, and add a quarter of a pound of beef suet (well minced and free from skin) with a saltspoonful of salt and one of pepper, and a little nutmeg. Put all into a mortar, and add two eggs, one at a time pounding so as to make a paste without any lumps of fat or meat. Take it out of the mortar, and put it for two hours on ice or in a cold place. Make a cream with an egg, half a table- spoonful of flour, a quarter of a pint of milk, and a very little salt Boil up once and put this into a basin, and stand the basin in water to cool. Put the chopped chicken and suet again m the mortar and pound it again, and add the cream (when cool) in three portions. Add also some small pieces of well-washed ice until the quenelles are of the proper consistency. Make balls or olives (quenelles) of this preparation, and poach them m boiling water. A tablespoonful of chopped-up truffles or mushrooms will improve the flavour of the above. Chicken with Rice (4, 5, 6).-Well wash and soak half a •nound of rice and drain it. Dress and truss a chicken, and put it breast downwards into a stewpan with enough clear, well- skimmed mutton or veal broth to cover it; season with pepper