POULTRY AND EGGS. 95 and salt, and a blade of pounded mace. Put the stewpan foi five minutes on a quick fire, put in the rice, and then simmer ^ently for half an hour. Move the saucepan occasionaUy. When the rice is tender take it out and drain it as dry as possible, then serve the chicken with the rice round it, and parsley and butter Se Guinea Fowl (5, 6).—Choose a young Guinea-hen. Wrap it in slices of bacon, and roast it at a quick fire for an hour or an hour and a quarter. Serve with watercress and bread sauce and the gravy separately. Guinea-fowl may also be braised or stewed. Brandy and Egg, I. (1-2, 2, 3,4, 5, 6).—Take the whites and yolks of three eggs and beat them up m a quarter of a pint of plain water. Add slowly six tablespoonfuls of brandy with a little sugar and nutmeg. Two tablespoonfuls every four or six °II.SBeat up thoroughly a tablespoonful of cream with the white of a new laid egg till frothy ; then add slowly _ one table- spoonful of brandy with a lump of sugar dissolved in it. (For a very irritable stomach.) III. Beat up the white and yolk of an egg in a wmeglassful of water with fifteen drops of brandy and a little white sugar. Two eggs thus treated will serve for the food of an infant for twenty- four hours. (Dr. Broadbent.) IY. (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Beat up the yolk of an egg to a froth with two teaspoonfuls of water; add a teaspoonful of brandy, and beat all well together. Egg and Sherry (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Beat up an egg to a froth, add a lump of sugar and a wineglassful of sherry, and beat all well together. Egg, Sherry, and Gruel (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Add egg and sherry made as above to some gruel made very hot and smooth, with a strip of lemon-peel and a very little grated nutmeg. Stir well together. Egg, Sherry, and Arrowroot (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Substitute arrowroot for the gruel. Egg Wine (2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Beat an egg; mix with it a spoonful of cold water; set on the fire a glass of white wine, half a glass of water, sugar, and nutmeg. When these boil pour them slowly into the egg and water, stirring well the while ; put the whole into the saucepan on a gentle fire, and stir it one way for not more than a minute. This may also be made without warming the egg. Egg-nip (2 3, 4, 5, 6).—Beat the yolks of two eggs and half an ounce of white powdered sugar together, then add brandy and cinnamon-water, of each eight tablespoonfuls. (British Phar- macopoeia.)