CHOICE OF POOD 3 desires and peculiarities of the feeder. Optati cibi digestio optima, i. e. that the food that is best liked is best digested, is in many (but not in all) cases a true saying. Dyspeptic persons in particular can sometimes easily digest what is apparently un- wholesome food; for instance, pork or beef in preference to mutton. At different ages different amounts of food are necessary. The feeding of infants is discussed at some length hereafter. Children from four to twelve years of age should have four meals a day, consisting of eggs, fish, bread, fresh butter, farinaceous puddings, and porridge, with mealy potatoes, carrots, spinach, and French beans, as the chief vegetables; meat should only be given once a day, viz. at the mid-day meal; any kind of fresh fruit is good, but especially oranges and roasted apples. As to the quantity, the average daily diet for a child up to eight years old would be :—Bread, 8 oz.; butter, 1 oz.; meat, 2 oz. (or fish, 4 oz.); vegetables, 5 oz.; milk, half to one pint; pudding, gruel, or broth, about half a pint. From eight to twelve years the quantity of meat may be increased, and probably less milk will be drunk. Overloading the stomach should be avoided—a child's capacity is not really unlimited. Alcohol, tea and coffee should not be given till after puberty. From twelve to twenty-five years the appetite is the best guide as to the quantity of food required. Fat should always be an important factor in the diet, especially of delicate children ; it may be given in the shape of cream (or unskimmed milk), of butter, of bacon or of other fat meat, or of oils. Young girls require much more open-air exercise than they usually get, and their lesson hours should be so arranged that they may not have to study directly before or after a rneaJ. Boys at school require meat more than once a day, or fish or eggs at one meal, and meat at another. In old age but little food is necessai-y. Digestion is slow and troublesome, and therefore all food should be easy of digestion. An old man should have but one substantial meal in the day, and that not too large a one. Meals should be slowly eaten and well masticated. "Warm clothing is also essential to good diges- tion in the aged. A model diet for old persons would be on these lines:—On first waking in the morning a cup of milk and a biscuit; or, if milk does not agree, a cup of bouillon or thin beef-tea with dry toast. At breakfast, a cup of chocolate, with dry toast and butter, and a slice of well-cooked bacon. Lunch should be taken early, and may consist of a little fish with bread, a milk pudding, and a glass of light wine. In the afternoon, a cup of soup and toast, or milk and water, or tea, with bread and butter. At dinner, soup and either fish or meat, with some easily digested vegetables' and a little wine. On retiring to bed, if three hours or more