107 MEAT. ■LU' hours, add a saltspoonful of meat-extract; then drain tbepalate on a cloth, and wipe off gently all the grease and fat. Serve with ^e^-bTSSiad (4 5, 6) and see also p. 101 (3, 4, 5' Minced Collops (4-5, 5, 6). Mince half a pound of raw beef- steak very small, warm half an ounce of butter m a stewpan put in the meat, and move it about with a fork till brown, but not hard Stir a dessertspoonful of flour into a quarter of a pint ol cold water, and add this; stew all together for an hour, stirring- freauently. Ten minutes before serving add two pinches ot salt, a pinch of pepper, and half a teaspoonful of Worcester sauce. Serve hot. garnished with sippets of toast. •• - Hungarian Beef-steak (3-^,4, 5, 6) .-Cut a very thm slice from the raw fillet, season it with pepper and salt. Mix a tea- spoonful of salt with a tablespoonful of vinegar, and lay the meat in it. Serve on bread or warm toast. Fillet Steak (4, 5, 6).—Sprinkle the steak with salt and pepper on both sides, dip it in oil, and broil for a few minutes over a moderate fire, turning frequently. Strain and skim the gravy, and flavour it with lemon-juice. Roast Fillet (Larded) (4-5, 5, 6).-Lard with small pieces of bacon inserted into the meat; roast a quarter of an hour for each pound of meat. Serve with the strained gravy, flavoured with a little lemon-juice if desired. Boast Fillet Braised (5, 6) in stock for five or six hours. Beef a la Mode (5, 6).—Take about four pounds of thick beet- steak cut into squares. Take nearly three-quarters of a pound ot fat bacon; cut off the rind, which should be put aside to b anch,* and then cut the bacon in strips for larding, about one-third ot an inch square, and sprinkle them with pepper. Lard the meat and tie it up, as for the pot-au-feu. Place the piece of meat m a. stewpan with rather less than a pint of white wine, a wineglass of brandy, a pint of stock, a pint of water; two calves feet, already boned and blanched, and the rind of the bacon also blanched. Put it on the fire, adding a little less than one ounce of salt. Make it boil, and skim it as for a pot-au-feu; next, having skimmed it, add fully one pound of carrots, one onion, three cloves, one faggot of herbs, two-thirds of an ounce of salt, and two pinches of pepper. Place the stewpan on the corner of the stove, cover it, and allow it to simmer very gently for four and a half hours. Try the meat with a skewer to ascertain when it is sufficiently cooked ; then put it on a dish with the carrots and the calves' feet, and keep them covered up hot until serving. * To " blanch " is simply plunging either vegetables or meat, as the case may be, into boiling water for a minute or two, to remove acrid matters in the first case, and to aid in cleansing in the second.