71 COOKING. Basting must be carried on while the meat is cooking, that the gravy which escapes from the meat may be incorporated again with the meat, and that the outside may not be burnt. Salt should not be applied to a joint until a slight moisture breaks out on the outside of the meat. Meat ought not to shrink much m cooking and when it is cut open red gravy should escape from it. Roasting is the best, the most palateable, and the most nutritious way of cooking a joint. The outside slices should be avoided by persons who are troubled with delicate digestion. Baking is a poor and unwholesome imitation of roasting. Grilling or Broiling should be managed in the same way as roasting. The meat to be grilled should be coated with butter and bread crumb, so that the interior may be juicy and tender. This process is not so good for meat as roasting, but is very suitable for fish. Frying is also not such a wholesome way of cooking as roast- ing. It requires some skill in management, and should be done lightly, that is, quickly and evenly. The meat should be laid in boiling oil or butter, or lard (oil being better than butter, and butter than lard), and turned over at first until each side is browned; afterwards' it should be cooked through. It is a bad plan to cook one side first and then the other side. Boiling.—To boil a joint it should be plunged into boiling water (to which salt and five drops of hydrochloric acid for each pound of meat have been added beforehand) and made to boil fast for five minutes, after which it should be allowed to simmer slowly until it is done. Boiled meat is less nutritious than roast, but is said to be more easily digested. In boiling beef-tea and soups the meat should not be plunged into boiling water, but should be chopped up, and then soaked for two or three hours in cold water, and then very slowly heated and kept simmering for some hours. Stewing.—Stewed meat is very easy of digestion, but often served with too rich a gravy, and therefore unwholesome. The best mode of stewing is with the bain-marie in which the food is cooked in its own juice. Braising is too much neglected in England. In this way of cooking, the meat is just covered with a strong liquor of vege- table and animal juices in a closely-covered vessel with as little evaporation as possible, and is exposed for a long time to sur- rounding heat just short of boiling. Thus the tough, fibrous flesh, even of old or of newly-killed animals, is made tender and easily digestible, and impregnated with the odours and flavours of fresh vegetables and sweet herbs. The liquor, slowly reduced in the process, furnishes the most appropriate, fragrant, and de- licious sauce. Meats which are dry or almost flavourless become saturated with juices and combined with sapid substances, which