61 DRINKS. " 3. In persons of advanced life the circulation is also often feeble, and a moderate allowance of alcohol often appears to be beneficial. " All other conditions of the system marked by weakness of the muscular wall of the heart, whether permanent or transient, are usually benefited by alcohol." (Dr. Murchison.) "Wine is one of the best tonics in existence. There is no medi- cine nor combination of medicines in the whole Pharmacopoeia which has half the reviving effect of a glass of champagne, when the vital powers are almost exhausted. Wine in moderation increases the activity of the circulation and of the digestion, and gives a feeling of warmth, in fact "maketh glad the heart of man." Wines may be roughly classified as white, red, sparkling, and sweet. White Wines generally contain less alcohol than red wines ; they tend to increase the secretion of urine. The best known white wines are sherry, Rhine, and Moselle wines, still Cham- pagne, white Burgundy and Sauterne. Sherry is generally too much fortified with spirit to be a wholesome drink, and is apt to produce acidity and gout. It is, however, not such a bad thing to take a little sherry with the soup at the beginning of a heavy dinner, as it stimulates the secre- tion of the gastric j uice. A little water added to sherry makes it more wholesome. The natural or unbrandied sherry is a very excellent summer drink and wholesome. Marsala is an inferior, Madeira a superior, sherry. Brown sherry is not by any means so whole- some as pale sherry. Still Moselle and Rhine Wines (Hocks).—The better sorts- are aromatic and highly stimulating. All these wines increase the action of the kidneys, and are often useful in cases of gravel, gout, and stone, and in acid dyspepsia, as well as for some cases of atonic dyspepsia. One or two wineglassfuls of hock or Moselle stimulate digestion, but larger quantities delay it. They are still more wholesome when mixed with effervescing mineral waters. White Burgundy (Chablis) and Sauterne have much the same effect as B-hine wines, but are rather more acid. They are very good in salad dressing. Red Wines contain more tannin and more alcohol, and the stronger sorts, which are generally mixed with a good deal of brandy, are less wholesome than white wines. The commonest red wines are port, Burgundy, claret, and the red German wines. Port is the noblest of all wines, but unfortunately it has a greater tendency to cause acidity and gout than any other wine (except perhaps champagne). It is an excellent tonic, and is specially useful in non-rheumatic neuralgia, a glassful every three hours, alternately with a fall dose of quinine, producing