POULTEY AND EGGS. 92 nourishing; a two-year old bird should be hung before being cooked; if older than this, turkey should be stewed. Roast turkey is generally suitable food for anybody—if the bird be not too old—and the healthy stomach will appreciate turkey with truffles. The pinions boiled with (or without) pearl-barley are digestible and nourishing. The hen turkey is better than the cock. Duck is neither so wholesome nor so savoury as wild duck, but, if the bird be well fattened, its liver is as good as/oie gras. Duck should not be eaten by delicate persons unless it is quite young and not fat. Guinea-fowl if young is delicate and digestible; it may be roasted plain, or wrapped in thin slices of bacon, or it may be stewed. Goose is no food for anyone who is not quite sure that good digestion will wait on appetite. Gosling, however, is not to be absolutely forbidden to dyspeptics. Eggs, i. e. in general eggs of fowls, contain, like milk, all the elements of a perfect diet, but are not, as a rule, so readily diges- tible as milk. Many persons can digest raw eggs but not cooked, and vice versa. Some when out of health can digest eggs, whereas in ordinary health they cannot. Raw eggs are generally more digestible than cooked eggs, and the yolk can often be taken when the white disagrees. The yolk of a raw egg beaten up with sherry or brandy or alcohol in some other form, or with milk, is an invaluable stimulant and restorative. Raw eggs are excellent also in the treatment of hoarseness and loss of voice, especially when this arises from want of strength. Raw eggs and hot milk are a most effectual remedy in ordinary colds, but they should be taken in large quantities. Raw eggs should be thoroughly beaten up and strained to remove the tread, and not given m a lumpy or gluey state. They are most digestible when mixed with water, or with salt or sugar, or with meat broths. The best way to cook an egg is to boil it, and that only to the point at which the white becomes jelly-like. Hard-boiled eggs are decidedly unwholesome, and, if they are eaten at all, should only be taken crushed up to a powder and seasoned with vinegar. Eggs should be boiled in clean water only. The best of the other ways of cooking eggs after boiling are poaching, and frying, but stirred eggs, whirled eggs, and baked egss are all excellent ways of preparing them. Eggs cooked with butter are not so digestible as when boiled; they should not be cooked in fat, for the egg's sake as well as for the eater s. Breakfast is the meal for which eggs are most suitable. Custards are a most valuable way of cooking eggs, and often agree when other preparations of eggs do not suit the stomach.