FARINACEOUS POOD. 52 Tapioca Soup (3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil two pints of bouillon or stock. With the left hand sprinkle in an ounce and a half of tapioca (previously washed), while the right hand is stirring in one direction, then cover the saucepan and let it simmer for twenty minutes. Skim, pass through a sieve, and serve. Sago Soup and Semolina Soup (3,4, 5, 6).—Put into a sauce- pan a pint and a half of consomme or stock. Boil up, and as soon as it boils, add half an ounce of well-washed sago, stirring well. Simmer for forty minutes in the covered saucepan. Skim, pass through a sieve, and serve. Milk may be substituted for the stock in the above receipts, and the yolks of two eggs should then be beaten up in the soup when made. Risotto a la Milanaise for two persons (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Put two ounces of fresh butter, with an onion chopped very fine, into a stewpan, and fry until the onion has a pale gold colour. Then add half a pound of well-washed East India rice, with a very little powdered saffron, stirring it constantly for about two minutes with a wooden spoon, so that it does not stick to the stewpan; after this two minutes' cooking, add about a pint of good stock very gradually; let it simmer gently, stfrring very frequently, till the rice is just soft. Before it is quite finished, add a little grated nutmeg and some grated Parmesan cheese ; after this, boil for one minute, then remove it from the fire and set it on a hot plate, add a little more butter, cover for a few minutes, and serve. The quantity of stock or beef-tea can be varied according as the risotto is prepared thick or otherwise. (Sir H. Thompson.) Persons with delicate digestion should omit the onion, and have the rice soaked six to twelve hours before cooking. Pilau (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Well wash six ounces of East India rice, and boil in a pint of water for eight or ten minutes at the most; throw it into a colander that it may thoroughly drain. Then place it in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, salt and pepper to taste, stirring well, and adding by degrees about half a pint of good fowl broth. After about fifteen minutes or so it should be properly done, turning out with the grains separate. It is to be served perfectly hot. The foregoing is a true pilau, but addi- tions may be made of portions of the meat of the fowl, or of other animal matter; of a little curry powder; of chutney; of fried onions, mushrooms, &c. (Sir H. Thompson.) Macaroni a l'ltalienne (4, 5, 6).—In a quart saucepan put a pint and a half of water. Blanch four ounces of good macaroni, season it with a little salt and twice as much pepper, and let it boil gently for twenty minutes. Strain off all the water, wipe out the saucepan, and put in the macaroni again with a quarter of a pint of good stock; simmer until the macaroni has sucked up all the stock. Grate an ounce of Parmesan and an ounce of