98 MEAT. cheese, three-quarters of an ounce of butter, and two table- spoonfuls of milk (some prefer the same quantity of white wine instead of the milk) ; put the pan on a quick fire, and stir dili- gently until the white of egg begins to set, then take off the fire, and stir for two minutes more; season with a little pepper, but no salt. Eggs and Tomatoes (4, 5, 6).—Bake and skin two tomatoes and pass them through a tammy; warm an ounce of butter in a stewpan over a quick fire, and put in half of the tomatoes; break into the butter a new-laid egg, keeping the yolk covered with the white; season with a pinch of salt and a pinch of pepper. Turn the egg, and as soon as it is set put it on a hot dish near the fire, -while you repeat the operation _ with the second egg. The yolks of the eggs should remain liquid. The eggs may be beaten up before being fried, if preferred. Custard without Eggs (4, 5, 6). —Mix a large tablespoonful of baked Oswego flour and two tablespoonfuls of sugar with a little cold milk. Boil a pint of milk with the thin peel of half a lemon and a laurel leaf; let it stand off the fire for ten minutes ; take out the peel and leaf, and pour the milk over the flour, stirring all the time; put it into a saucepan and boil for two minutes; turn it into a basin, and stir it till it is cool. Put half a pound of marmalade or sweetened summer fruit into a dish • pour the custard oyer, and stand it in a cool place till wanted. Sweeten the fruit thus : a pint of red currants and a pint of raspberries, both fresh and carefully picked ; put theui into a dish with a quarter of a pound of good moist sugar and a tablespoonful of water, and let them saturate for six hours or longer, stirring frequently. (Dr. Fothergill.) XIII. MEAT. This is, after all, the natural staple of diet in Northern countries, however much other foods may be praised and recom- mended. Many people eat a great deal more meat than is good for them, as, indeed, is true of all other articles of food. As old age approaches, and the teeth and digestive powers fail, the quantity of meat taken should be diminished, and it will often be well to substitute soups and other easily assimilated preparations for solid meat. After the age of five and twenty two meat meals a day are enough for anyone who is not engaged in hard out- door exercise, and many persons will find themselves the better for only one such meal. _ . . Meat should not be tough, nor too old—neither too fat nor too lean It should be hung until tender, but not be allowed to be- come tainted. Meat should always be cut in thin slices and