40 JELLIES. tine to hot gruel previously completely pancreatised, and flavour to taste. (Sir Wm. Roberts.) Chicken and Calf's-foot Jelly (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Pound half a fowl and a calf's foot in a mortar, or with a mallet (bones and all) ; put them in a closed vessel with enough cold water to cover the meat. Simmer very slowly until the broth is reduced to one half, and the meat falls to pieces when stirred. Strain through a cloth; add salt and pepper, and lemon-juice, or wine (if desired) for flavouring; simmer again for five minutes ; skim when cold. Mayonnaise of Fowl (4, 5, 6).—Out tip the remains of a cold fowl neatly, and pile the pieces on a dish. Make a Mayonnaise and pour it over the fowl. Garnish with young lettuces cut lengthwise, and young watercress. Calf s-foot Jelly (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil two feet in five pints of water till the feet are broken, and tbe water reduced to two and a half pints; strain, and when cold take off the fat, and remove the sediment; put into a saucepan with sugar, wine, and lemon-juice to taste, and some lemon-peel; add the whites of five eggs, well beaten up, and the broken shells of the eggs. Set the saucepan on the fire, and do not stir the jelly after it begins to warm. Let it boil twenty minutes, then pour it repeatedly through a flannel jelly-bag, previously wrung out of hot water. The feet should have been scalded before using. N.B.—Cow heels make a stronger jelly. Sheep's-foot Jelly (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6). Simmer six sheep's feet, with mace, cinnamon, lemon-peel, and a little isinglass in two quarts of water to one. When cold take off the fat. This may also be given warmed with a little milk. Baked Calf s-foot Jelly (3, 4, 5, 6).—Bake two calf's feet in two pints of water and two pints of new milk in a closely-covered jar for three hours and a half; season with salt, lemon-peel, or mace. When done, strain and remove all the fat. Beef, Mutton, and Calf's-foot Jelly (3, 4, 5, 6).—Take one pound of beef, and one pound of mutton free from fat, bone and sinew, with two calf's feet, and five pints of cold water; season with six peppercorns and a little salt; bring it slowly to boiling point, skim it, and let it simmer slowly for four hours; strain, and remove any fat. This may also be taken warm as a soup. Beef and Calfs-foot Jelly (3, 4, 5, 6).—Take off the skin and meat from a calf's foot, break up the bones, and put all together in cold water over the fire until the scum rises; pour off the water, and wash the foot in cold water, which is also to be thrown away ; add half a pound of beef, or an old fowl, with a quart of water and a pinch of salt. Boil slowly and regularly for five hours; strain through a cloth, and set the jelly to cool- When cool remove all tbe fat. Then beat up an egg with its