DRINKS. 69 and boil down to one quart; stir it occasionally and skim fre- cmently. Flavour with powdered sugar-candy and the juice and thinly cut rind of a lemon, if allowable. Do not strain unless the patient desires it. For infants the barley-water should be strained, and of course no lemon-juice or rind may be used ; it should for this purpose be boiled to one and a half quarts only. Demulcent Drink (2, 3,4, &c.).—Boil a large pinch of isinglass with half a dozen pounded almonds and two lumps of sugar m a tumblerful of milk. To be taken warm. (Dr. Broadbent.)^ Malt Tea (2, 3, 4, &c.).—Boil three ounces of malt m two pints of water. Strain. [Dr. King Chambers.) Lemon-Water 2, 3, &c).—Put two slices of lemon, a little lemon-peel and a lump of sugar into a vessel; pour m a pint of boiling water, and cover it closely for two hours. Apple-Water (2, 3, &c.).—Pour a quart of boiling water, sweetened with a quarter of a pound of sugar (or less, according to taste) over two roasted apples ; strain after three hours, and keep in a cool place. Rhubarb-Water (3, 4, 5, 6).—Made like apple-water, with stewed rhubarb for roasted apples. Apple Barley-Water (2, 3, 4, &c.).—A quarter of a pound of pearl barley added to apple-water, and boiled for one hour. (Dr. Fothergill.) . Apple Riee-Water (2, 3,4, &c.).—Half a pound of rice boiled in apple water, strained through a cullender, and drunk cold. (Dr. Fothergill.) Claret Cup (2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Half a bottle of claret to a bottle of soda-water and a good lump of ice. Half-a-dozen drops of sweet spirits of nitre put into the jug first give it a fruity flavour. (Dr. King Chambers.) Linseed Tea (2, 3, 4, &c).—Take of whole linseed, and white sugar, of each one ounce, liquorice root half an ounce, lemon-juice four tablespoonfuls. Pour on them two pints of boiling water, and let it stand in a hot place four hours; then strain. (This should be avoided by persons who are taking iron, lead, or copper. Linseed tea is demulcent and diuretic.) (Dr. King Chambers.) American Drink (2, 3, 4, &c.).—Put the juice of a lemon to a pint of water, in which an ounce of sugar has been dissolved; add the white of an egg, and beat well up. This may be iced. (Dr. Fothergill.) Tamarind-Water (3, 4, 5).—Boil two ounces of tamarinds with a quarter of a pound of stoned raisins in three pints of water for an hour; strain, and let it stand till cold. (Dr. Fothergill.) Arrowroot and Black Currant Drink (3,4, 5, &c).—Boil two tablespoonfuls of black currant jam in a quart of water; cover it, and stew gently for half an hour. Strain, and put on the fire