22 THE FEEDING OF INFANTS. quarter of an ounce of isinglass in a quarter of a pint of white wine. Add to half a pint of cream the juice of half a lemon; pour into the cream very quietly the wine and isinglass while it is warm; stir the cream all the time that the wine is being added. Put into a mould to cool. Mock Cream (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Mix half a tahlespoonful of baked flour with a pint of new milk, let it simmer for five minutes, then beat up the yolk of an egg, stir it into the milk while boil- ing, and run it through a lawn sieve. IV. THE FEEDING OF INFANTS. It is impossible to over-rate the importance of providing proper diet for young infants. A child brought up on unsuitable diet begins life with dyspepsia, from which it frequently suffers for the greater part of its existence. Thus its development is hindered; it does not acquire strength from food which is not adapted to it, and if its life iB not cut short by disease induced by the errors of its nurse or mother, or by want of strength when attacked by one of the complaints incidental to infant life, it grows up to be sickly, weakly, and miserable, a burden to itself and to all belonging to it. For the first six months of its life milk is the proper and only food for a baby; some authorities will not allow any addition to be made to the diet until the child is eight months old. The milk which nature provides in the mother's breast for the nourishment of the child is of course the best possible food ; but if, from disease or from want of milk, the mother is unfit to suckle her infant, a wet-nurse should be provided, who should be a strong woman, free from all taint of disease, and should have been confined at about the same time as her foster-child was born. It is important to observe that human milk does not always contain exactly the same proportions of water, fat, sugar, &c, and it may be sometimes necessary to change the nurse, if the one first selected has milk which does not agree with the child. The infant should be put to the breast as soon after it is born as the mother is able to attend to it, because the milk first secreted in the breast has a slightly aperient action, which is beneficial to the child, and also because it is well that the child should be trained as early as possible to suck. Some nurses have a detestable practice of giving butter and sugar, gruel, milk, and so forth, to a new-born infant, because the mother has not yet got a full supply of milk. This practice should on no account be allowed. For the first six weeks the child should be put to the breast