FARINACEOUS FOOD. 56 buttered basin well tied down for one hour and a quarter. Serve with custard sauce. Small Bread Puddings (4, 5, 6).—Bring half a pint of milk to boiling point, pour it on a quarter of a pound of bread crumbs, and let them soak for about half an hour. Beat ^^p two eggs and mix them with the bread crumbs and milk, and add one ounce of butter, a tablespoonful of brandy, a little sugar, and half a tea- spoonful of minced lemon-peel; stir all well together until thoroughly mixed. Half fill three or four small cups (previously buttered) with the mixture, and bake them in a moderately heated oven twenty to thirty minutes. Serve with a little white sugar. Canary Pudding (4, 5, 6).—Mix one and a half ounces of baked flour to a smooth batter with a quarter of a pint of milk ; add gradually one and a half ounces each of sugar and butter, with one egg, and a little brandy and grated nutmeg. Mix wall, and fill a mould half full with the mixture. Bake for three quarters of an hour. Batter Pudding (5, 6).—Add a little salt and a gill of milk to six ounces of baked flour, and mix them quite smooth. Beat up five eggs and strain them, then add them to the batter with some more milk until the mixture is as thick as good cream; strain the batter, and put it into a buttered basin with a cloth tied over the pudding. Boil one hour, and serve with powdered sugar and a little lemon-juice. Buttercup Pudding (5, 6).—Mix a quarter of a pound of bread crumbs with the same quantity of brown sugar and butter; add the yolks of five eggs and the whites of three, and then a quarter of a pint of milk; beat the whole up slowly, put it into small cups, and bake exactly twenty minutes. Sponge Puddings (5, 6).—Cream two ounces of butter, and add two eggs, one ounce of white powdered sugar, and a table- spoonful of flour; beat the whole up slowly, fill three small cups, and bake them for exactly twenty minutes. Puff Puddings (4, 5, 6).—Pour scalding milk upon white bread sliced, and let it stand till well soaked; then beat it well up with four eggs, a little sugar and grated nutmeg; half fill small cups with the mixture and bake. Leche Crema (5, 6).—Beat up yolks of three eggs and white of one, add gradually a pint and a half of milk; then mix very care- fully four tablespoonfuls of fine wheat flour and two ounces of powdered sugar, with grated lemon-peel for flavour. Boil over a slow fire, stirring constantly, until the flour is quite dissolved. When sufficiently boiled pour it upon biscuits in a dish. Serve cold, dusted over with powdered cinnamon.