54 FARINACEOUS FOOD. Hasty Pudding (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Beat a tablespoonful of baked flour into a paste with cold milk, and add it to half a pint of boiling milk, stirring constantly in one direction till it is thoroughly cooked. (Dr. Fothergill.) Indian Corn Hasty Pudding (3, 4, 5, 6).—Heat a pint of water with a teaspoonful of salt. When it begins to boil, stir in baked Indian corn meal till it is thick enough. Boil for twenty or thirty minutes. Eaten with milk, or sugar or treacle. Pried Hasty Pudding (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Out cold hasty pudding into smooth slices, and fry them to a light brown in butter. Baked Corn Meal Pudding (3, 4, 5, 6).—Bring half a pint of milk to boiling point, stirring it occasionally. Take it from the fire, add a little salt and some sugar, and scatter in a quarter of a pint of Indian corn meal, stirring rapidly to prevent its col- lecting into lumps; add a little nutmeg, and bake for an hour in a deep dish in a hot oven. Pour over the pudding two table- spoonfuls of milk, and bake for two hours longer. Pice Pudding (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil two ounces of rice (pre- viously baked or soaked in two waters) in a pint of milk, stirring constantly till it thickens; take it off the fire and mix well in two ounces of butter, a little grated nutmeg and sugar. Let it cool, then put it into a buttered dish and bake it. Serve with custard sauce. Pice Custard (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—One tablespoonful of whole Carolina rice and seven tablespoonfuls of milk. Boil in water bath, which must not be allowed to cool until custard thickens ; sweeten ; add four pounded sweet almonds- Pearl Barley Pudding (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Soak an ounce of pearl barley in cold water for twelve hours; drain away the water; mix two and a half ounces of moist sugar with the pearl barley, add a pint of milk, and bake slowly for three and a half hours. Cornflour Pudding (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Mix a tablespoonful of baked cornflour with a little cold milk to a smooth paste. Add to this half a pint of boiling milk (with two pinches of salt in it), and let it boil steadily, stirring it constantly in one direction, for twelve minutes, then add a teaspoonful of butter, and take the pudding from the fire. Let the pudding stand for two or three minutes, and then beat in an egg. Serve with or without sugar. Hominy Pudding (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Put a pint of baked hominy in one and a half pints of boiling milk. Cover it close, and let it soak for twelve hours ; then put it into the oven, and bake for twenty minutes. {Dr. Fothergill.) Hominy and Cheese (4, 5, 6).—If hominy be well boiled, and then grated cheese with milk mixed with it, and the whole put into the oven to brown, a delicious digestible dish is the result. (Dr. Fothergill.)