MEAT. 101 Ribs resemble the sirloin, but are rather more digestible. Boiled Beef is generally pickled so long a time before boiling as to make the fibres hard and indigestible, and the excessive quantity of salt contained in the meat does not improve matters. Beef a la Mode is good and nourishing but not very digestible. The meat should be laid in vinegar for forty-eight hours before being cooked, and should not have too much spice. Marrow is rich and not always digestible. Ox-tail makes an excellent but rich stew, very savoury, but not verv wholesome. . .. . ., Ox-tongue is very good if stewed fresh with a slightly acidu- lated sauce ; if smoked it becomes too often hard and indigestible. Tinned ox-tongue is mostly unwholesome. Beef-palates are readily digested if boiled to a brawn or jelly with the finely shredded rind of a lemon, a very little vinegar, and a small quantity of white pepper; the addition of a small fash, e q whiting or haddock boiled down with the palate, is an im- provement, and so is a little Liebig's extract (a piece the size of a bean to each half pound of the jelly) or stock. Tripe is very wholesome, and easily digested, and may be given ven in early convalescence. Bullock's Heart, Kidneys, and Liver are only suited tor ostrich-like digestions. Salt Meats are only about half as nourishing as Iresn meat, and are also less digestible. Salt meat, if kept too long, may become dangerous to the health of the eater. Those persons who do not digest albumen well may be ordered salt meat instead of fl"smoked Meat is as a rule hard, tough, and unwholesome. Baw Meat is a useful diet in wasting diseases, especially in consumption, but it is often objected to partly from sentiment, and partly because it is insipid ; it should be of beef chopped up fine with salt and pepper (not too much of either) and eaten on toast with a little lemon-juice, or as Hungarian beef-steak. Those who will not take quite raw meat will sometimes eat meat just warmed at the fire. All skin, fat, and gristle should be removed from the meat before mincing it. Sausage Meat should be finely chopped up with a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and some lemon-peel; no garlic, spices, or flour should be added. The skin should not be eaten, and the meat should be well chewed, and in this way it is fairly digestible. Stuffing is almost always to be avoided by those whose diges- tion is impaired. Fat is a very valuable fuel, and, moreover, serves for the repair of tissue; if salted or smoked it is rendered less digestible, espe- cially when cooked, and the more it is salted the less wholesome