91 POULTRY AND EGGS. with a tumblerful of stock. Cover the vessel closely and plunge it into boiling water in a large saucepan, and let all simmer lor three hours or more. When entirely cooked, let it cool and cover it with fat to preserve it. It should not be eaten till at least twenty-four hours after it is cooked. Landrail or Corncrake (4, 5, 6).—Boast, wrapped m buttered Pa"Wiid Duck (5, 6).—Boasted at a quick fire, and served with gravy and slice of lemon separately. , Fillets (5, 6).—Having roasted the fillets, slice the skin, dram, and serve with a clear gravy seasoned with Seville orange-j nice, or garnished with olives. Teal, Widgeon (5, 6).—Dressed like wild duck. XII. POULTRY AND EGGS. Poultry.—This class of food, especially in the shape of boiled chicken, is one of the earliest that is offered to persons who are just regaining the power of digestion, and even during acute illnesses chicken-broth is one of the insipid and innutritious foods which are inflicted on the unhappy patient. In reality poultry, especially if fat, is not so wholesome as wild fowl. Poultry for invalids must be young and tender. The skin should in no case be eaten when the digestion is delicate. Chicken is one of the most digestible meats, but not of the most nutritious. It should be given at first boiled without any sauce, and after a day or two of this diet, roast chicken with its own gravy as sauce may be tried. In more advanced convales- cence, poulards au gros sel, or au riz may be ordered, or godiveau de blanc de volaille (without truffles). Hen chickens are more digestible than cock chickens. The breast and wings are the most wholesome parts. Capons are more wholesome than fowls, and may be substi- tuted for roast chicken. Fowl, best at one year old, though, if well kept, it is still tender in its second year; after that age it is only fit for soup. Fowls should not be too fat, and hens are more tender and digestible. Boiled fowl is insipid, and not so wholesome as boiled chicken. Roast fowl with thin slices of bacon well fried is best for invalids. Fowl is also good in puree. Pigeons while young are digestible, nutritious, and tasty; they should be roasted or grilled, or they maybe roasted in vine- leaves. When no longer young pigeons make very good soup. Turkey is generally too fat to be wholesome. If not more than a year old, turkey is generally tender and digestible and