SOUPS, BROTHS, AND BEEF-TEA. 32 Milk and pounded biscuit may, however, be added for the sake of variety, and in order to avoid too great uniformity of food. (Dr. Marcet apud Dr. Broadbent.) Fluid Beef (2-3, 3, 4, 5).—Take one pound of newly killed beef, ■chop it fine, add four wineglassfuls of soft or distilled water, four or six drops of pure hydrochloric acid, a saltspoonful of salt, and stir well together. After three hours throw the whole • on a conical hair sieve, and let the fluid pass without pressure. On the flesh residue in the sieve pour slowly a wineglassful of distilled or soft water, and let it run through while squeezing the meat. The resulting fluid has a red colour and a pleasant taste of soup. A wineglassful may be taken at pleasure. It must not be warmed more than by partly filling a bottle with it and standing the bottle in hot water. A little spice or Worces- tershire sauce or a wineglassful of claret may be added to each teacupful of soup to disguise the flavour if desired. The acid may be omitted if not desirable. Fowl may be used instead of beef at pleasure. (Dr. Broad- bent.) Leube and Rosenthal's Solution of Meat (2,3,4,5).—Take two pounds of beef without fat or bone, chop it up fine, place it in a porcelain or earthenware vessel with two pints of water, and one tablespoonful of pure hydrochloric acid. The vessel is then put into a Papin's digester, covered closely, and cooked for ten to fifteen hours, being stirred twice in each of the first four hours. After cooking ten to fifteen hours, pound the mass in a mortar to an emulsion; cook this again fifteen to twenty hours without opening the Papin's digester; then add bicarbonate of soda till the reaction is almost neutral, and steam until it is i-educed to a pap. This solution is very nourishing and easy of digestion, and may be kept in closed vessels for some time. It may be used alone or in broth or beef-tea, flavoured with a little salt or Liebig's Extract. Beef Juice (2-3, 3, 4, 5).—Mince one pound of beef and put it into a bottle, cork the bottle and put it into a vessel contain- ing a little cold water, and let this vessel stand on the fire till the water boils. Strain off the meat from the juice, and use the latter only, which, if required warm, should only be warmed by being placed in a vessel, and that vessel plunged in hot water. •(Dr. Fothergill.) Essence of Beef, I. (2-3, 3, 4, 5).—Mince up one pound of o-ravy beef free from skin and fat, pound it in a mortar with three tablespoonfuls of soft water, and let it soak for two hours. Then put it into a covered eai-then jar with a little salt, cementing the ■edges of the cover with pudding paste, and tying a piece of cloth over the top. Place the jar in a pot half full of boiling water