FAKINACEOUS FOOD. 4S ful of sherry, and add to it half a pint of fine hot gruel. Flavour with sugar and lemon-peel, and a little nutmeg. IT. (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Beat up two tablespoonfula of cream in a pint of thin gruel. Add to this one tablespoonful of curacoa or noyeau, and a wineglassful of sherry. Flavour with sugar- candy, and let half a tumblerful be taken cold at intervals. {Dr. Broadbent.) III. (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Make a fine smooth gruel of half grits; strain it when well boiled ; keep stirring it till cold. Add sugar, lemon-peel, nutmeg, and a wineglassful of sherry or Madeira, with or without a dessertspoonful of brandy. IV. (3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil up half a pint of fine gruel with a piece o£ butter of the size of a nutmeg, a tablespoonful of brandy, . and one of sherry or Madeira, a bit of lemon-peel, and nutmeg. V. (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Into a pint of boiling-hot, fine gruel (not thick), put the yolk of an egg beaten up with sugar, and mixed with a large spoonful of cold water, a glass of wine, and nutmeg. Mix by degrees. Farina Gruel (2-3, 3,4, 5, 6).—Stir two tablespoonfuls of any baked farina into a quart of water in an enamelled saucepan, and let this boil until it is quite thick ; add a pint of milk, and a little salt, and let it boil fifteen minutes longer. Sweeten to taste. (Dr. Fothergill.) Rice Gruel (3, 4, 5, 6).—Wash two ounces of rice in two waters, and put it into three pints of water to soak for twelve hours ; then boil for two and a half hours ; stir it frequently and skim. Strain it through a wire sieve, rubbing the glutinous part through the sieve, but none of the firm part. Add a little orange marmalade if desirable. Indian Meal Gruel (3, 4, 5, 6).—Moisten a quarter of a pint of sifted Indian meal with a little cold water to form a paste, and stir this gradually into a quart of boiling water. Boil slowly for two hours, stirring often. Beat it well up with a Dover egg beater (or, in default of that, a fork) while still on the fire. Strain, and season with a little salt and pepper, or with a little sugar. Indian Meal Milk Gruel (3, 4, 5, 6).—Add to the above, when done, a quart of boiling milk, and let all boil together, for five minutes, stirring carefully. With either of the above, a pint of boiling beef-tea may be well stirred in when the gruel is nearly cooked, with or without a beaten-up egg, but the broth must not be boiled after the egg has been added. Sago (3, 4, 5, 6).—Soak half an ounce of sago in cold water for an hour, drain and wash it well. Boil it with three quarters of a pint of water for an hour and a quarter ; the water should be cold when the sago is put into it. Skim when it begins to boil, and stir frequently. Sweeten with a dessertspoonful of sifted