DKINKS. 66 more wholesome than tea, and is also more nourishing. Coffee, like tea, is partially a stimulant; it increases the action of the heart and the blood pressure, and quickens the pulse, but these effects soon pass off. Excessive coffee-drinking pi'oduces palpi- tation, giddiness, nervous trembling, sleeplessness, loss of appe- tite, and eventually weakness of the action of the heart, and in rare cases paralysis agitans. In the East coffee is pounded to an impalpable powder, which is thrown into boiling water and allowed to stand for some minutes, and the infusion is then drank, grounds and all. Coffee beans should be roasted to a golden yellow or quite pale brown, not to the dark brown colour usual in England. The roasting is best done on an iron plate, and care is necessary that the beans are roasted equally and not allowed to burn, one burnt bean being enough to spoil all the rest of the coffee. Some people sprinkle the beans while they are being roasted with pow- dered sugar (an ounce to the pound of coffee). When the beans are of a golden yellow they should be spread out on a plate of iron to cool. After roasting, coffee should be kept in a covered jar in a dry place. The beans should not be ground until they are wanted, and should then be reduced to a fine powder. The preparation of coffee is managed in two ways. For the decoction one and a half to two and a half ounces of coffee (according to the strength required) are allowed to each pint of water. Three fourths of the powdered coffee are put into cold water and boiled for ten minutes, then the other fourth is added and the coffee taken from the fire and allowed to stand for five minutes. The infusion is prepared by pouring the boiling water over the coffee powder and allowing it to drain through. Coffee should be prepared in silver, porcelain, or enamelled iron vessels, not in tin coffee pots. The water used for making coffee should be soft, or if hard, must have soda added to it, as much bicarbo- nate of soda as will lie on a threepenny-piece being enough for one pint of water. The decoction of coffee is more bitter, less exciting, and less digestible than the infusion; the latter, therefore, is more suit- able for invalids and for drinking after dinner. Milk, cream, and sugar diminish the exciting and stimulating effects of coffee, but make it less digestible. Sugar and milk in coffee often cause heartburn. An egg beaten up in coffee is often well borne. .,, „ , A cup of black infused coffee, with a few drops of lemon-juice, will often remove the headache caused by stomach troubles. Infused black coffee is a pood remedy for cramp of the stomach, and the effect is increased by the addition of a tablespoonful of liqueur brandy or Kirschwasser.