102 MEAT. it is. Fat sometimes causes biliousness, but DrMilner Fothergill maintains that with fat and starch bilious people are compara- tively well if they do not commit excess. Sometimes cold fat is more easily digested than hot, or vice versa. Meat Jellies are easily digestible and nourishing, and if slightly acidulated are good for feverish persons. Jellies of game, poultry, and fish are not so nourishing, but more appetising and, if not too much seasoned, even more digestible. As to the cooking, meat is most easily digested when boiled, but it is more nourishing and savoury when it is roasted or grilled. Beef should not be overdone, but served " with the gravy in it; " but it must be heated thoroughly as a lukewarm mass of meat is not only repulsive to the fastidious senses of the sick, but dan- gerous, because meat is the habitat of the eggs of most of the intes- tinal worms. Dr. King Chambers'dictum isthat trichinseand other entozoa when thoroughly cooked are as harmless as a baked lion. Mutton and lamb require thorough cooking, and to be served as hot as possible. Mutton is best boiled in hard water. Pork should only be eaten in a completely cooked state; its natural unwholesoineness is increased by partial cookery. The flesh of animals that have been diseased in life is very unwholesome. Sweetbreads Steamed (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Trim off the pith and skin, and let the sweetbreads soak in cold water for four hours, then blanch them in water over the fire until they swell up and become firm, but not too firm ; drain. Pound up as much as is wanted in a mortar to a pulp, and boil in a water-bath for twenty to thirty minutes, with just enough white stock to cover it. Drain and serve hot. Sweetbreads Plain (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Trim off pith and skin, and put the sweatbreads into cold water for four hours ; blanch them in water, heating them on the fire until they become firm and swell up like a balloon; put them into cold water until per- fectly cold ;. drain them; place them in a saucepan with a little butter; dust them over with flour; move and moisten with a little water; add salt and pepper and a little parsley. Cook very gently, and serve with slices of lemon. Calf s Sweetbread Baked (3, 4, 5, 6).—Trim and blanch as above; when cold drain ; dip in beaten-up egg, and sprinkle with bread-crumbs; dip in egg again and bread-crumb again; drop a little oiled butter over them, and bake in moderate oven for three quarters of an hour. Serve on toast, and pour brown gravy round them. Sweetbreads Braised (4, 5, 6).—Trim and blanch as above; lard them well when cold with fine lard; season with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice; put them in a good braise of slices of lard and of veal, seasoned with parsley, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Cover