MEAT. 104 of it) for twenty minutes, drain and throw it into cold water. Obop up very small sixounces of beef suet and melt it in a large saucepan; as soon as it is melted add six ounces of flour, five pints of water, three-quarters of an ounce of salt, and half that quantity of pepper, and the thinly cut rind of a lemon, with the juice from which the bead has previously been rubbed. Stir all this until it boils, then add the head with the tongue. Stew slowly for two hours and a half, the saucepan being not quite covered. The head should be wrapped in a napkin or in strong paper before being- put into the saucepan. When the head is cooked remove the skin of the tongue. Serve with the brain separately. The brain should have the thin outside membrane taken off, then be soaked in cold water for an hour, then boiled for half an hour with two and a half pints of water, half an ounce of salt, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Serve with cut lemon. Sheep's Head (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Divide the head in two, length- wise ; take out the brains and tongue, and blanch the head in plenty of boiling water for twenty minutes; drain, and throw it into cold water, then place it in a stewpan with a root of celery, some parsley, and a carrot, a teaspoonful of salt, and three quarts of water. Bring it to the boil, and then let it simmer until it is cooked, which will be in three or four hours. Mince some of the meat from the cheek very fine, and serve on toast moistened with the strained liquor in which the head was stewed. [Sheep'B head is one of the most wholesome forms of meat, being preferable to mutton chop.] Sheep's Tongues (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Sheep's tongues should be boiled in salt and water until the skin can be peeled off them, cut in halves, lengthwise, and stewed or braised, and served in gravy with braised or stewed vegetables. Sheep's Tongues Grilled (3-4, 4, 5, 6). —Boil the tongues in salt and water until the skin can be peeled off, cut them in half, lengthwise, soak them in oil, roll them in bread-crumbs, and grill them. Sheep's Tongues Stewed (4, 5, 6).—Blanch the tongues, wrap them in thin slices of bacon, put them in a braise of grand bouillon with a carrot, parsley, thyme, a bay-leaf, salt and pepper, and cook them in a moderate fire. Strain the liquor, reduce it, and add half a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Calves' Tongues (4,5',6).—Cooked in the same way, or augratin. Ox-tongue (4, 5, 6).—A fresh tongue braised is a savoury and digestible dish. Sheep's Feet (3, 4, 5, 6).—Take four feet, remove all the wool, singe them, blanch them in boiling water for five minutes, then plunge them into cold water; remove the long bones, boil tbe feet in white stock for three and a half to four hours until thoroughly cooked, and serve with shoes of lemon.