47 FARINACEOUS FOOD. Mcllin's, are very excellent for invalids even where the stomach is exceedingly delicate, and may be considered as second only to pancreatised and peptonised foods in digestibility. Pancreatised Gruel (2, 3, 4, 5, 6j.—Make a good, thiclr, strong gruel of (baked) wheaten flour, oatmeal, arrowroot, sago, tapioca, pearl barley, or pea or lentil flour. Boil the gruel well, and let it cool in a covered jug until it is lukewarm ; then add two teaspoonfuls of Liquor Pancreaticus to each pint of gruel, and keep it warm for half an hour or an hour; boil and strain. The resulting gruel is not very nice by itself, but is a useful basis for pancreatised soups, jellies, blanc-mange, &c. (After Sir Wm. Roberts.) Pancreatised Milk Gruel (2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—To a gruel (prepared as above, but unpancreatised), while still boiling, add an equal quantity of cold milk. To each pint of this mixture add two teaspoonfuls of Liquor Pancreaticus and a pinch of bicarbonate of soda. Cover and keep warm for half an hour; then boil for two or three minutes and strain. (After Sir Wm. Roberts.) Water Gruel (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Mix one large tablespoonful of oatmeal with a little water to a smooth paste. Pour in a pint of boiling water, stirring constantly in one direction. Boil for ten minutes, stirring as before; strain. Flavour with salt or sugar. For Milk Gruel substitute milk for the water. Gruel (Milk and Water) (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Mix half an ounce of grits with two thirds of a pint of water to a smooth paste; add one third of a pint of boiling milk; boil for ten minutes, stirring as above; add half an ounce of sugar. (Children's Hospital.) Half a teacupful of raisins cut in half, and boiled for half an hour with the milk for the gruel, makes milk gruel more nutri- tious and tasty. A pint of boiling beef-tea may be mixed with any of the above, boiled together for five minutes, and strained, or a dessertspoonful of Savory and Moore's meat peptone, or a teaspoonful of Benger's peptonised beef jelly, may be added to any of these gruels. Flour Caudle (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Rub smooth one dessertspoon- ful of fine flour in five large tablespoonfuls of water. Set over the fire five tablespoonfuls of new milk with two lumps of sugar. As soon as it boils pour into it the flour and water, and stir over a slow fire for twenty minutes. Rice Caudle (2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Soak Carolina rice in water for an hour, strain, and put two spoonfuls of rice into a pint and a quarter of milk ; simmer, pulp it through a sieve, and put pulp and milk into a saucepan, with a bruised clove and a lump of sugar. Simmer ten minutes. Caudles I. (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—-Beat up one egg with a wineglass •