88 GAME AND WILD BIRDS. Of wild birds, Larks are not only delicious, but, if not too fat, very digestible. They should, however, be young and tender. They may be served in many different ways. "Wild Duck is good eating, but unfortunately not good for delicate stomachs ; it is, however, better in every way than tame duck. "Wild duck may be roasted or dressed in fillets. "Widgeon is inferior to wild duck. Teal is more digestible than either of the above, but is not to be given in early convalescence; it may suit some dyspeptics well enough. It is best roasted, and should not be hung long. Plover is a very good and digestible bird, and ranks with game in every way. It is usually roasted. Golden plover is the best sort. "Wood-pigeons are suitable for almost everybody; they are dressed, like tame pigeons, in a variety of ways. Turtle-dove is better than pigeon, and should be roasted wrapped in vine-leaves. As to Swans, Bustards, and Sea-fowl, they are neither wholesome nor very good eating, and are (fortunately) not often served up to invalids. Wild cygnet, if tender, is wholesome and savoury. There are many small birds which are not usually eaten in England but are highly esteemed abroad, and are very good and easily digested, e. g. finches, yellowhammers, wagtails, robins; thrushes and blackbirds are particularly good eating, and very wholesome; with sparrows, everyone is familiar under the name of larks; fieldfares are a real delicacy. All these birds are best roasted. Cuckoos and jays are also said to be edible, but of this I have no experience. Rooks, even while young, are indigestible. Game should be hung for a few days until it becomes tender, but should not be allowed to get so high as to be offensive, else it becomes indigestible, and, if very high, it is injurious to delicate and susceptible stomacbs. "Water-fowl, and especially teal, should not be hung long. The fat of all birds, but especially the oily fat of water-fowl, is difficult of digestion. The bitter livers of wild birds promote the digestion of the flesh, and should be eaten with it. The skin of all game and wild birds should be avoided by all who are doubtful about their digestive powers. Snipe, Woodcock.—Should not be drawn. Boasted (3-4, 4, 5, 6) over buttered toast—snipe for fifteen minutes, woodcock for twenty-five minutes. Serve with slices of lemon. Stewed (4, 5, 6) in butter with a little nutmeg, salt, and pepper- corns, for seven to eight minutes over a clear fire; then add lemon- juice, half a glass of sherry, and a few bread-chips. Boil up and serve. In Salmis (4, 5, 6).—Take off the legs and wings of cold roast