39 JELLIES. lemon-juice, and a wineglass of Madeira. Simmer till quite hot and serve. Eel Broth (4, 5, 6).—Skin, clean, and chop up into pieces an incli long six small eels. Boil them in a pint and a half of water, and skim off the fat. Then cover them over and stew for forty miuutes. This is a good change for convalescents from fevers, and is also a good stock for cooking flounders, soles, or perch, instead of hutter sauce, which is apt to turn rancid. {Dr. King Chambers.) Soupe Maigre (5, 6).—Melt half a pound of butter in a deep stewpan over a gentle fire; shake it about, and let it stand till it no longer spits. Peel and cut up in small pieces six medium-sized onions, blanch them in boiling water for ten minutes, then throw them into the melted butter, and shake them about. Sprinkle in a head of celery cut up in pieces an inch long; a large handful of spinach and a small bundle of parsley, both chopped up fine; shake them about over the fire for fifteen minutes; then dredge in a dessertspoonful of browned flour, and stir well up. Pour into the pan two quarts of boiling water, and add a handful of dry bread-crust broken up small, a saltspoonful of salt, and one of pepper; boil gently half an hour. Beat up the yolks of two eggs with a teaspoonful of vinegar, stir them in and add at once. To make this soup properly the ingredients must be added in the above order. Spinach Soup (5, 6).—Pick all the stalks from one pound and a half of fresh spinach ; wash it and chop it up; put it in a three quart stewpan with two ounces of butter; stir it over the fire for five minutes ; add half an ounce of flour and a pinch of salt, and stir again for three to four minutes. Then stir in four pints of chicken broth till it boils. Let it simmer for half an hour, and add a small teaspoonful of cream. Serve with pulled bread. Endive or Lettuce Soup may be prepared in the same way. {Dr. King Chambers.) VI. JELLIES. Jellies.—Are an insidious and agreeable way of inducing a patient to take food. Farinaceous jellies are nourishing, whereas meat and chicken jellies do not contain much nourishment, but are refreshing and stimulating. The idea that soups and meat teas which become a jelly on cooling must be nourishing is now generally recognised ;is a delusion. Pancreatised Jellies (1, 2, 3, 4, &c.).—Add isinglass or gela-