7 CHOICE OP POOD. for it, and, if the patient be weakly, or the disease exhausting in its effects, food must be insisted on. In such cases, food should be given in small quantities frequently repeated, and in some easily digestible form, such as milk, peptonised foods, beef-tea, meat-juice, jellies, soups, raw eggs with wine or brandy, &c. After a short period of unwilling eating, appetite will return, and more and mor-e food will be taken, until the normal quantity is reached. In the acute diseases of children, old people, and feeble pei'sons, feeding should be insisted on from the first. Stuffing, i.e., forced feeding, is useful in some cases of consumption, and of acidity of the stomach. As during convalescence the appetite often returns before the power of digesting food is recovered, it is necessary to be always cautious about increasing and varying the diet; and a fixed diet as regards both the quality and quantity of food should be laid down. Later, as the patient's digestion regains power, more variety maybe given to the diet by the addition of light farinaceous foods, such as arrowroot, tapioca, or rice with milk; then of white fish and bread. After these, chicken and white meats may be allowed, which again will be supplemented by game, easily digested vegetables, and, finally, the more nourishing meats, with a little wine, or weak brandy and water, will be found suitable. Vegetables which produce flatulence, acidulous fruits, salted meats, and heavy puddings and pastry must, of course, be avoided during convalescence. Stimulating beverages should be given cautiously, if necessary. Additions to the diet should only be made at one meal during the day, and two or three days should generally be allowed to elapse before any further increase is made. Sudden and complete alteration of diet is to be avoided. Table of Digestibility of Various Foods. Pancreatised milk (pp. 13, 18). Milk, with or without mineral waters (Chap. III). Pancreatised meat teas, with farinaceous thickening or malt extract (Chap. V). Pancreatised gruels and other pancreatised farinaceous foods (Chap. VII). Malted preparations. Meat teas (Chap. V). Raw eggs, custards (Chap. XII). Invalid food, e. g., Nestle's, Mellin's, Savory and Moore's, &c. (Chap. VII). Soups and jellies (Chaps. V and VI). Gruels and milk pud- dings (Chap. VII). Lightly cooked eggs (Chap. XII). Boiled or steamed fish, whiting, sole, haddock, plaice, &c. (Chap. X). Sweetbread stewed. Lamb's feet (Chap. XIII). Partridge, quail, snipe, woodcock, grouse (Chap. XI). Venison (Chap. XI).