MILK AND ITS PREPARATIONS. 15 10 p.m.—Half a tumblerful of artificially digested milk. At night.—Half a tumblerful of milk and water with a tea- spoonful of brandy. If there should be persistent vomiting, and the stomach will not retain milk, the meals, except when artificially digested, should be iced. If there be acid eructations, heartburn or waterbrash, milk should only be given in an artificially digested state, or combined with mineral waters. Milk is more suitable for persons who take much exercise than for those who lead sedentary lives, and for the young than for the old. It should not be taken at meals when meat is eaten. As a drink milk is more wholesome when skimmed. Fresh milk is generally more wholesome than stale, because it contains more carbonic acid. Milk is a good restorative for those who have habitually taken stimulants to excess. It is not suited for sluggish digestions, and in some cases of gastralgia it increases the pain, but with these exceptions milk is the universal diet in all diseases. In Bright's disease, in typhoid fever, in acute gastric catarrh, and in gastric ulcer, &c, and in some cases of cramp and cancer of the stomach, it is the only allowable diet, and this holds good also in the eaiiy stages of rheumatic fever, scarlet fever, measles, and all inflammatory diseases. In almost all other diseases it is the staple article of diet, though not the only one. Cream contains most of the fatty constituents of milk, and is very nourishing and wholesome if taken in moderation, but should be avoided by bilious persons. When it can be adopted it is a palatable variety in milk diet, but it often disagrees in the evening or at night. Cream with rice-water or barley-water is sometimes more easily digested by hand-fed babies than milk. Cream mixed with glycerine and flavoured is a good substitute for cod-liver oil in consumption and wasting diseases, and, if not readily digested pure, will be found quite digestible if made into an emulsion with panci-eatine. "When cream is to be boiled a small piece of soda should be added to it. Clotted Cream or Devonshire Cream is the cream skimmed from milk which has been heated to about blood-heat (100° P.), and has the same properties as fluid cream, while it iB to some persons more easily digestible (2, 3, i, 5, 6). Junket (2, 3, 4, 5, 6) is made from milk curdled with rennet, or from clotted cream, with a little sugar, cinnamon, or nutmeg, and a small quantity of brandy. It forms a perfectly wholesome substitute for one of the daily meals in an exclusive milk-diet, but is not suitable as a diet by itself, as no ordinary stomach can digest enough of it to nourish the body. (Chambers.) Syllabub (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6) is both nourishing and wholesome, provided the wine with which it is made is not oontra-indicated.