DRINKS. 67 A cup of hot, strong black coffee will sometimes cut short an attack of asthma. ' . Coffee has but a slight effect on the salivary digestion, and is therefore better than tea as a drink at breakfast, where bread is an important part of the meal. It retards peptic digestion like tea, but has no effect on the digestion by the pancreatic juices. Strong black coffee after dinner helps digestion in healthy persons, but does not suit feeble stomachs. It should be taken directly after dinner, not an hour or so after eating. Coffee causes constipation and a tendency to piles in some persons, but is laxative with others. No essences of coffee, or artificial preparations, should be used. Chocolate is often adulterated with rice-meal, starch, brick dust, fat, &c. The test of the purity of chocolate is that it leaves no grounds when boiled. English chocolate and cocoa have but an indifferent character abroad. The German saying runs: " Buy French chocolate, try German, fly English." Chocolate is not so exciting as tea or coffee. It is more nourish- ing and wholesome than either of these, and has a slight tonic effect upon the stomach; but it mostly causes constipation, and should therefore be avoided by all persons with sluggish action of the bowels. Milk-chocolate is sometimes better digested by dyspeptic persons than milk alone; it is often well borne in cancer of the stomach; it should not be taken by those who suffer from gout or acid dyspepsia. Chocolate with arrowroot, sago, tapioca, or salep, is good in diarrhoea and the resulting weakness. French chocolate is prepared by breaking up an ounce and a half of chocolate to one third of a pint of water or milk. The fluid must be replaced as it evaporates in the cooking. When the water or milk begins to boil put in the broken chocolate, stir it gently till it is quite melted, then boil for six to eight minutes, stirring slowly all the time. Lastly, let it simmer beside the fire for half an hour without boiling, and stir it occasionally. The German way of preparing chocolate is by breaking up an ounce of chocolate and putting it into a breakfast-cupful of cold water or milk, warming slowly, and then boiling for a full half hour, stirring diligently all the time with a wooden spoon. Silver, enamelled iron, or porcelain vessels (not tin ones) are to be used for the preparation of chocolate, and the spoon with which it is stirred should be used for no other purpose. Dry chocolate often agrees well with delicate stomachs, and is nourishing. It should not be eaten with bread and butter. Chocolat de sante is the most suitable for delicate digestions, but vanilla chocolate digests very readily. Honey may be used instead of sugar in chocolate for those whose digestion is irritable.