FISH. 72 render the food succulent and delicious to the palate. (Sir H. Thompson.') Slices of ham or bacon, cut carrots, parsnips, turnips, onions, with various herbs, a bay-leaf, cloves, and other spices, with a little wine and a small quantity of good meat stock, are placed around the meat in the braising-pot (Sir H. Thompson)—but these additions to the flavour are not intended for persons of weak digestion. If fire be placed on the lid of the braising-pot the meat is half roasted. In such cases it is best to cover the meat with white paper. Of general rules about cooking the following should be ob- served : All meat should be a little underdone rather than overdone, but if too much underdone it will probably offend more than one of the delicate senses of a sick person, and prevent a fastidious appetite from relishing the food. Too much seasoning makes unwholesome cookery. Even salt should be used sparingly in cooking, as it can always be added afterwards according to the taste of the eater. Meat should not be pricked with a fork while roasting to see if it is cooked, as this makes a vent for the juices to escape at. _ Gravy should always be free from fat, and is indigestible if burnt. Gravy is improved by the addition of a little meat extract. Butter or olive oil should be preferred to lard for frying and grilling for invalids. Anchovy-butter is wholesomer than butter alone, besides imparting a flavour to the meat cooked. Lard, suets, and fats congeal quickly, and make the meat cooked in them indigestible. Delicate persons should never touch twice-cooked meats; cold meat is better for them than warmed-up dishes, and is especially suitable with a glass of good wine in convalescence. Smoked, pickled, and salted meats are not so digestible as fresh meat. Meat should not be too fat, as excess of fat hinders digestion. Large joints are not suitable for an invalid's table. Small, delicate, tasty dishes will appeal more successfully to his palate. All hot food should be served quite hot, with hot plate6 on clean linen. The most scrupulous neatness and cleanliness is abso- lutely necessary to encourage sick people to take food. X. FISH. Fish is the most easily digested form of solid food, and is also fairly nourishing; it is therefore the most suitable diet m early