DKINKS. 65 cases it gives a sense of warmth and comfort, relieves weariness, and allays the craving of hunger, causing a slight general ex- citement, an effect whieh lasts some hours; lastly, it increases perspiration and the flow of urine. It will be seen that the uses of tea are all similar to those of alcohol. On the other hand, the disadvantages of tea are not inconsider- able. According to Sir Wm. Roberts, tea retards both salivary and peptic digestion, especially if taken in large quantities, and strong tea inhibits salivary digestion more than either coffee or cocoa; tea, therefore, should not be partaken of at the same time as starch foods. This action can, however, be modified by adding a pinch of bicarbonate of soda to the boiling water, which does not affect the flavour of the tea. A slice of lemon is some- times substituted for the bicarbonate of soda, but this does affect the flavour, and is not good for those who are troubled with acidity—a complaint to which tea-drinkers are especially liable. Afternoon tea is especially injurious to the stomach. Tea does not hinder the digestion of bam and tongue, though it does of fresh meat and farinaceous food, and is therefore most suitable for breakfast. Excessive tea-drinking may produce symptoms of poisoning, viz. yawning, general irritability, a feeling of weight and fulness about the stomach, general tremors and enfeeblement, loss of appetite, spasms, cramps, flatulence, sleeplessness, leanness, vertigo, palpitation and functional derangement of the heart, disturbance of the circulation, gastric catarrh, and a peculiar anxiousness. Excessive tea-drinking is said to lead to excessive alcohol-drinking. Children should not be allowed to drink tea nor coffee nor alcohol. Dyspepsia in a very large majority of cases is increased by tea-drinking. Persons troubled with this complaint will do well to abstain from tea altogether, but if the habit of this kind of dram-drinking is too strong for them, they should drink as little as they can, and that little not too hot, and always with bicarbonate of soda, or with a slice of lemon. Of the different sorts of tea that known as Pekoe is the least un- wholesome ; it consists of small leaves covered with a white bloom. The water with which tea is made should always be soft, or if soft water cannot be procured, carbonate of soda should be added to the water. The water must be boiling at the time that it is poured on to the tea. Ten grains of tea-leaves, i. e. a tea- spoonful, is the proper allowance for a breakfast-cupful of tea, and when the boiling water has been poured over it, it should not be allowed to stand moi-e than five minutes. Creani, milk, and brandy destroy the flavour of tea, but a little sugar does no harm. Tea with milk is especially unwholesome in sickneES. Coffee, the most common drink on the Continent, is somewhat 5