POULTRY AND EGGS. 97 Custard (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6). —Simmer a pint of milk with the thinly-cut rind of half a lemon and three ounces of sugar; strain off the rind. Dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in water and pour the boiling milk on it; add seven bitter almonds and five sweet almonds (all blanched and pounded in a mortar); boil gently for five minutes, then add the yolks of two eggs well beaten up. Boil up once, pour it into a mould and let it cool. Scrambled,Eggs (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Break three eggs into a frying-pan with a little milk, a dessertspoonful of butter, a little salt, pepper, and a very little nutmeg ; stir well together; when the eggs begin to set, take off the fire and serve on buttered toast [sprinkled with chopped ham, parsley, or asparagus (3-4, 4, 5, 6)]. {Dr. Fothergill.) Eggs in the Nest (3, 4, 5, 6).—Beat to a froth the whites of three eggs, seasoned with two pinches of salt, one of pepper, and a little chopped parsley. Put them into a buttered dish, and pour over it three spoonfuls of cream, leaving a space between each spoonful—in each portion of cream place the yolk of one of the eggs. Bake in a moderate oven until the eggs are just set. Baked Eggs (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Butter a dish thickly with fresh butter, add half a pinch of salt, and the same quantity of pepper. Break into the dish three new-laid eggs, and dust over them half a pinch of salt and a pinch of pepper. Put the dish on a hot plate, with a gentle fire, cover with an earthenware cover, and put hot embers over it, or a salamander. Cook for three to four minutes; as soon as the white begins to set serve on the dish. Stirred Eggs (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Heat a tablespoonful of butter in a frying-pan, then break into it three fresh eggs. Mix in a table- spoonful of white stock and a little pepper and salt, and stir quickly for about two minutes, keeping the spoon in contact with the bottom of the frying-pan. When the eggs have become a soft yellow mass spread them on fried toast from which the crust has been pared. Serve at once. Egg and' Cream Cheese (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Take an egg, and a piece of cream cheese of the size of an egg, an ounce of fresh butter, a pinch of powdered sugar, and enough grated bread- crumbs and cream to form a paste. Mix all these well together and make into balls. Poach them in boiling salt and water, and drain. {After Mrs. de Salis.) Toasted Eggs (4, 5,6).—Toast a slice of stale bread to a golden yellow, break an egg carefully upon it, and set it close to a good fire; melt a piece of butter of the size of a filbert above the egg, so that the melted butter shall drip upon it, and turn the plate round several times, so that the egg is cooked all round. When it is set, add a little salt and pepper, and serve hot on the plate. Fondue (4, 5, 6).—Break up two eggs cold in a saucepan, and mix with them one and a half ounces of scraped Parmesan 7