17 MILK AND ITS PREPARATIONS. spoonful and a half of pepsine wine may be substituted for the rennet). Sour whey is made from skimmed milk with cream of tartar. "Whey does not contain the most nourishing constituents of milk, •only sugar, salts, and small quantities of albumen, fat, and casein. Sweet whey is more wholesome than sour. Whey increases the ex- cretion of urine. It is given to young infants sometimes, when they are temporarily unable to digest milk, but it should only be ■used when other methods of feeding fail. If whey cause stomach- ache it should be avoided; it sometimes causes diarrhcea, some- times constipation, or pains. It should only be used fresh and is ■then generally wholesome enough, though not so nutritious as milk. Koumiss was originally a fermented preparation of mare's milk, and has obtained a considerable reputation as a food in various wasting diseases, e. g. in long-continued diarrhoea, in consumption, in diabetes, and in derangements of the digestion, especially where there is obstinate vomiting. It is supplied by the Aylesbury Dairy Company in several varieties, differing in their contents and in the length of time which intervenes between the manufacture and the consumption. " Koumiss No. 1, medium" is rather like milk and lemonade, and is not dis- agreeable. Nos. 2 and 3 are very sour and cheesy, and are so effervescent as to be difficult to drink. Koumiss is best given when a sick person is unable to take milk in any other form, or as an occasional variation in a milk diet, to relieve the monotony. Many people are able to take milk without discomfort, with whom koumiss would disagree. Condensed Milk is a substance which is sold in tins, and is said to be prepared from milk. It is neither wholesome nor palatable, and should be used only by persons who are quite unable to procure real milk. It is, however, largely employed to ruin the digestion of babies, for whom it is sometimes a con- venient and unsuspected poison. Cheese is used in two ways:—(1) In very small quantities as a fillip to the palate, and with some people as an aid to digestion. For this object decayed cheeses of the rich buttery sorts are most suitable. (2) Newer cheeses of lighter sorts are used as sub- stantial food. Cheeses may be classed as (1) Cream cheeses, e. g. Gruelthorpe, Camembert, Neuchatel; (2) Cheeses made of whole milk, and rich in cream, viz. Stilton, Double Gloucester, Brie, Roquefort, Gorgonzola, Strachino di Milano, Cheshire and Cheddar; (3) Cheeses made from poor, i. e. partially skimmed milk, viz. Single Gloucester,_ Shropshire, and Wiltshire; (4) Cheeses made of •skimmed milk, e.g.^Suffolk, Parmesan, and Dutch; (5) Goat's milk •cheeses, e. g. Gruyere. Those of the first and second classes are suited to excite the 2