SOUPS, BROTHS, AND BEEF-TEA. 33 and keep the pot on the fire for four hours. Strain off (through a coarse sieve_ so as to allow the smaller particles of meat to pass) the liquid essence, which will amount to five to six ounces in quantity. Give two or more teaspoonfuls frequently, alone or mixed with cool beef-tea or broth. (Broadbent.) II. (2-3, 3, 4, 5).—Shred the meat very finely, and put it into a jar without any water, cover the jar closely, and place it in a saucepan of boiling water for three hours. Strain off the meat, and give two teaspoonfuls of the juice frequently as above. Bouillon (2-3, 3, 4, 5).—Pound in a mortar a pound of lean beef with half a fowl; put these into a saucepan with two pints and a half of water, and three saltspoonfuls of salt. Stir gently over a bright fire until boiling begins ; let it boil for twenty minutes, skimming when any scum rises; take off the fat and strain. The addition of an egg, well beaten up, is a great improvement, but the egg must not be boiled in the soup. Calf s-foot Broth, I. (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Break up two feet, and put them into a pot with two quarts of water, one carrot, and a little mace and salt. Boil for two or three hours, until only one quart of fluid is left. When done, strain, and add a cup of good wine, and one teaspoonful of Indian meal or oatmeal (Br. Fothergill.) II. (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil two feet in three quarts of water till the water is reduced to three pints; strain, and set it by to cool. When wanted for use, take off the fat, and heat a breakfast-cupful of the jelly in a saucepan, with half a glass of sherry (or brandy) and a little sugar and nutmeg, until nearly boiling. Next beat up with part of this broth the yolk of an egg, and add a piece of butter of the size of a nut, and stir it all together m the saucepan. Do not let it boil. A piece of fresh lemon-peel may be grated into it for flavouring N.B.—Cow heels are better than calf's feet Chicken Broth (2-3 3, 4 5, 6).-Skin and chop up a chicken, or half an old fowl, and take off the feet. Put the chicken or fowl in a stewpan with a quart of water, a blade of mace, a sprio- of parsley, a crust of bread, and a little salt and pepper Boil *pi tw°Ji?ul;s (°i lf an- °ld fowl be used'tiU thoroughly tender), lake off the broth, strain it, let it cool and skim it Thin Mutton Broth (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).-Take off the fat and skuit from two chops of the neck or loin of mutton, cut them in. thin bits and boil them, m three quarters of a pint of water with a little thyme and parsley, for half an hour Let it boil quickly, and skim off the fat carefully. To make mutton broth more nutritious add to each pint two tablespoonfuls of powdered biscuit, boil with the broth for five uiinutes, stirring briskly. 3