118 VEGETABLES. XVII VEGETABLES. The importance of this class of food is sufficiently proved by the fact that with nine-tenths of the human race vegetables are by far.the most important article of diet, arid that many nations live entirely on vegetables and farinaceous food with milk. Vegetables are necessary in every well-arranged diet, not only to give variety to food, but to convey certain elements necessary for the nourishment of the body, and to form a sufficient volume to fill the stomach, and enable it to perform its functions thoroughly. It is the great fault of the dietary of most English people that they neglect vegetables for the sake of meat; they would be more healthy, especially as regards rheumatism and gout, if they ate meat seldomer, and consumed more vege- table's, fruit, and bread. At the same time, an exclusively vege- tarian diet is not suited to our climate nor to our ways of life. Vegetarians have to consume such large quantities of their food in order to get sufficient nourishment, that the stomach is over- loaded and unable to perform its functions rightly. There is more chlorosis (green-sickness and poverty of blood), dyspepsia, and dropsy among vegetarians than among flesh eaters. It is important that all vegetables should be quite fresh; stale vegetables are apt to ferment, and to cause flatulence and indi- gestion Further, vegetables must be properly cooked; much ot the indigestion that results from eating this kind of food is owing to its having been insufficiently or wrongly prepared. Vegetables are more wholesome in warm weather than m cold, and are more nourishing when cooked or eaten with some oily or fatty matter. They should never be cooked up a second time, but be eaten cold or thrown away. In cooking vegetables, all hard stems and woody fibres should be removed, as these are hard to digest, and care should be taken that the vegetables (except potatoes) should be young as the old are more woody and tough. Variety in this sort of diet is not only pleasing, but important. ... . It must be understood that vegetables are not an article ot diet for those suffering from acute diseases, nor for early conva- lescence The remarks on this class of diet are intended tor dyspeptics and for persons with delicate digestions. Potatoes are the most common, and therefore the most impor- tant of all vegetables, but they hardly deserve the favour which they have found; they contain, it is true, much starch but little nitro-en, and are therefore a suitable accompaniment to meat, but not satisfactory as a food to the exclusion of other foods. They are poor in nourishing qualities, and to many people chm- cult of digestion, causing acidity and heartburn; where they