FRUIT. 115 all either contain, or are eaten with, sugar, of which a certain amount is necessary in a well-regulated scheme of diet. In this country fruit is chiefly eaten at dessert after dinner (the heaviest nieal of the day); at such a time it retards rather than helps digestion, and its flavour is not appreciated by the cloyed palate To be properly appreciated it should only be eaten before or between meals, and stale bread and water are the best accom- paniment m most cases; but peaches, strawberries, and rasp- berries are more readily digested when eaten with a little red wine and sugar, while melons are indigestible except with stimu- lants. The skins, pips, stones, and cores of all fruit should be rejected. Eaten m moderate quantity before meals, fruit will be found to excite appetite, and often to help digestion. _ Some of the various sorts of fruits possess medicinal qualities • juicy and slightly acidulous fruits, such as grapes, currants' oranges, cherries, and peaches are very grateful to fever patients' to whom they may be given with advantage, so long as excess in this kmd of food is avoided Bilious people enjoy, and are the better for, acidulous fruits, though these fruits should be avoided by persons who are troubled with acidity, and by patients who are taking mercury. The most nutritious fruits are those which are pulpy and sweet, e.g. cherries, plums, peaches, pears, and apples, and especially grapes, figs, and dates. Some fruit is more wholesome cooked than raw; apples, pears, and plums should not be given uncooked to invalids. This article of diet especially m large quantities is not good for the teeth, tending to produce decay, both by the direct action of the juices of the fruit and indirectly from the stomach trouble which mav be caused by too free indulgence in fruit. A rough division of the various fruits may be made into berries stone-fruit, rmd-fruit, and nuts. ' The commonest berries are the barberry, bilberry, blackberry gooseberry strawberry, raspberry, mulberry, whortleberry and grapes and currants. In general these are refreshing and shghtly laxative to the bowels. This class of fruit!should be avoided in intestinal and gastric inflammation, except grapes freed from their skms and stones. P giapes Barberries make an excellent and refreshing iellv Bilberries and Whortleberries taken with cold miik for break fast are an agreeable remedy for habitual constipation Strawberries and Raspberries are more indigestible with than itsl^7ea:ir ^ore rn? digested b*SOme S«m££ XI soared m iedwme. Strawberries are sometimes successful in procuring the discharge of intestinal worms, and are therrfore given at the same time as worm medicines meieioie From raspberries refreshing drinks are made of rasoberrv mice and raspberry vinegar, and these might be more often used