•80 pish. Broiled Shad (4, 5, 6).—Clean, wash, and scale the shad. Soak it for an hour in two tablespoonfuls of oil, one saltspoonful of salt, and half a saltspoonful of pepper. Grill it over a clear, gentle fire for eighteen minutes on each side. Serve with caper •source or maitre d'hotel. Sole au Vin Blanc (4, 5, 6).—Boil the sole, after it has been trimmed, with an ounce of butter, half a pint of Chablis or Sauterne, two pinches of salt, and one of pepper. Keep the vessel closely covered while boiling. Make a sauce of three quarters •of an ounce of butter, and the same quantity of flour; mix, add a pinch of salt and one of pepper, and half a pint of water. Stir it until it begins to boil; then add the liquor in which the sole has been cooked, boil all together up once, add a little chopped parsley, and half an ounce of butter. Stir until the butter is melted, and pour the sauce over the fish. The fish must be kept hot while the sauce is being prepared. To Feed Oysters.—Put them into water, and wash them till ■quite clean; lay them downwards in a pan, sprinkle them with oatmeal (or flour) and salt, and cover them with water. Repeat this every day. (Dr. Fothergill.) Oysters on Toast (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Put each oyster on a -piece of toast cut into a circular shape, and a little larger than the oyster. Pour the liquor of the oyster over it, and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Boiled Skate (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Take a slice of skate, put it into a quart of cold water, with an ounce of salt, a pinch of pepper, and a tablespoonful of lemon-juice (or a wineglassful of vinegar), and a little parsley. Boil up, skim, and then simmer very gently till done. Drain, and add two pinches of salt and one of pepper. Take three quarters of a pint of the liquor in which the skate has Tseen boiled, and put into it the liver of the skate, boil for five jninutes, drain off the liquor, cut up the liver and lay it on the fish. John Dory (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Out off the fins and cleanse the fish ; rub it with lemon-juice, and put it into cold water, with an ounce of salt to each quart of water. Boil gradually, skim, and then simmer gently for fifteen to twenty minutes according to size. Serve with slices of lemon or caper sauce. John Dory is said to be less rich than turbot. Fried Smelts (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Wash and dry the smelts, dip them in milk and dredge them with baked flour; season them with a pinch of salt and one of pepper. Fry them in butter at first gently for four minutes and then with a very brisk fire for three minutes; they should be of a light golden colour. Dry them on blotting paper before the fire, and dust a pinch of salt over them. Serve them with slices of lemon. Smelts au G-ratin (4, 5, 6).—Choose large smelts and cook them like sole au graiin (vide p. 79).