20 MILK AND ITS PREPARATIONS. Milk and Malt-extraet (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6\—A tablespoonful _ of nialt-extract to half a pint of warm milk in a hot-water jug (with a lid), if covered with a tea-cosey, and put on a piece of wood or other non-conductor of heat, is a pleasant and nutritious drink during the night. (Dr. Fothergill.) Creme Ordinaire (2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Heat an ounce of isinglass in a pint of quite fresh cream over a slow fire, but do not let it boil; flavour with vanilla, lemon-, or orange-peel, or orange- flower water and sugar; let it cool, and add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, strain the mixture into a jug, and place the jug in a saucepan of boiling water over a slow fire, taking care not to let it boil. Stir it until it thickens, then let it cool, and pour it into a well-oiled mould. When cold, turn it out and serve. Cream (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Beat the yolks of fom- eggs, and sta- in one tablespoonful of sugar, and the thinly pared rind of a lemon or orange with its juice. Place the vessel containing this in a pot of boiling water, and let it cook, stirring gently until it begins to thicken; then stir in the whites of the eggs beaten up stiff with a tablespoonful of powdered sugar. Mix thoroughly and let it cool. Lemon Cream (2-3, 3, 4,5, 6).—Simmer for ten minutes over a gentle fire, one ounce of sugar, half an ounce of isinglass, and the rind of half a lemon, in half a pint of milk. Strain into a jug, and add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Put the jug in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir one way until the mixture thickens, but do not let it boil. Let it grow nearly cold, stirring all the while. Strain the juice of half a lemon into a basin and pour the cream slowly on it, stirring continually. Put it into a mould and let it cool. Orange Cream (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil the rind of a Seville orange till quite tender. Drain it, and beat the rind in a mortar to a pulp ; add a dessertspoonful of brandy, two ounces of loaf sugar, and the juice of the orange (strained). Beat all together for ten minutes, and add the yolks of four eggs well beaten. Simmer half an ounce of isinglass in a pint of milk for ten minutes, and pour it very gradually to the other ingredients, and beat the mix- ture till nearly cold; put it into custard cups, place the cups in a deep dish of boiling water, and let them remain till quite cold. Snow Cream (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Add to a pint of cream the whites of one egg and a half, two spoonfuls of sweet wine, sugar to taste, and a little lemon-peel; whip it to a froth, and remove the peel. Calf's-foot and Coffee Cream (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil a calf's foot in water till it produces a pint of jelly, clear of sediment and fat. Make a teacupful of very strong coffee, clear it with a bit of isinglass, pour it to the jelly, and add a pint of cream and some sugar; let it boil up once. The coffee should be fresh.