21 MILK AND ITS PREPARATIONS. Coffee Cream (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil half a tumblerful of cream. Mix in a basin a tablespoonful and a half of strong black coffee, with the yolks of three eggs and half an ounce of sugar. The milk should be allowed to cool a little, and then be poured into the basin; beat well together, strain through a cloth, and put the mixture into three custard glasses, take off the froth, and put the glasses into a saucepan of boiling water of such depth that the water comes half way up the glasses. Place the saucepan near the fire, and keep it warm for a quarter of an hour, but do not let it boil nor simmer; when the cream is cooked, cool the custard glasses in cold water, dry them, and serve up. Chocolate Cream (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Made as above but with boiled chocolate instead of black coffee. Caramel Cream (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Made in the same way but with caramel for coffee or chocolate. The caramel is made by melting a tablespoonful of sugar, and stirring it well, until it is of a rich brown colour, then adding half a custard glass full of water. Vanilla Cream (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Proceed in the same way as for coffee cream, but use a little more cream, and substitute a quarter of a vanilla pod for the coffee. Lemon Cream (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6). A similar process to the coffee or chocolate cream, but with the rind of half a lemon stirred in in place of coffee ; this must be strained. Apricot Cream (3, 4, 5, 6).—Take out the stones of four or five ripe apricots, and boil tbem in a syrup made with two ounces of sugar and a wineglassful of water, till they form a thin marma- lade ; put this through a sieve. Boil half a pint of cream, let it cool, and mix with it the yolks of three eggs well beaten, put the basin containing the cream and eggs into boiling water, and stir it one way until it thickens; do not let it boil. Strain through a sieve, and, when nearly cold, mix it with the apricots ; stir well and put it into custard glasses, and put these in a cool place. Raspberry, Orange, or Ginger Creams (3, 4, 5, 6), may be made in a similar way. N.B.—Jam may be substituted for the fresh fruit in winter, but the dish is not so wholesome with jam (3-4, 4, 5, 6). Almond Cream (3, 4, 5, 6) is made by substituting sweet almonds blanched and pounded thoroughly in a mortar for the other flavouring materials. Any of the above creams may be made firm by adding a little isinglass boiled in water. If the above creams are too rich or too expensive, milk may be substituted for the cream in their composition. Any of these creams may be iced. Velvet Cream (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Dissolve over the fire a