VEGETABLES. 120 nourishing food, but generally indigestible when they are in bad condition or badly cooked. They should be soaked in cold water before being cooked, and the older they are the longer they should be soaked. If the water be hard, bicarbonate of soda should be added to it. They should be boiled continuously until the skins burst, and fresh boiling water should be constantly added to make up for what evaporates in the cooking. _ Peas and beans are more digestible if a little vinegar be added just before dishing them up. If they are too old the skins do not crack readily, and they should then be chopped up or mashed before boiling, as long boiling only makes them harder and tougher. Young peas are more digestible than young beans, but the latter are rendered more, wholesome if their skins be removed before cooking. . . French Beans, if properly boiled, are very digestible, it is essential that they should be young and fresh. Haricot Beans, both red and white, are fairly wholesome and digestible, and of good flavour. The dried beans should be soaked in cold water for at least twelve hours, then, after boiling, be simmered for two or three hours, or fried with a little bacon and lard. Cold stewed haricots make a good salad, especially with tomato. (Sir By. Thompson.) _ Lentils, though nutritious, are indigestible and nasty, lliey are said to form the basis of the well-known Revalenta. They should be crushed and stripped of the husk. Spinach is one of the best of vegetables; it is light and easy of digestion, does not tend to induce flatulence, and is quickly digested; it is also slightly laxative. It should not be soaked before boiling. It may be boiled, or stewed with gravy, or milk or butter. . . , , The leaves of hedge-garlic, large stinging nettles, garden orach, meadow-cresses, sow-thistles, beetroot, &c, may be used as substi- tutes for spinach when it is not in season. Asparagus, perhaps the best of all vegetables, and certainly one of the most wholesome, has a sedative and slightly diuretic action. It should be eaten freshly cut and green, and is not so digestible when it is old and stringy. Sir Hy. Ihompson recom- mends that the stalks should be cut all of one length, and the asparagus placed on end in the saucepan with the heads an inch or two above the water, so that the stalks are boiled and the heads steamed; this process takes twice as long as the ordinary plan, but makes the stalks edible; it is most suitable for the larger sorts. The fresh young fronds of the male fern m the spring make a good imitation of early asparagus. (Dr. King Chambers.) Celery is more wholesome cooked than raw; if eaten raw it should be as a relish to bread and butter or cheese ma light meal, not at the end of dinner;—said to be anti-rheumatic.