24 THE FEEDING OF INFANTS. It will sometimes be found that a child can digest boiled milk better than unboiled, but as a rule unboiled milk is preferable. The meals should be given as in suckling, at intervals of two hours for the first six weeks, and after that time at gradually lengthened intervals. Food must not be given at irregular times because the child cries; as a rule this only makes the child more uneasy, and it cries all the more. The food must be prepared afresh at each meal. The child should not be allowed to suck at an empty bottle. Condensed milk should never, be used for feeding young in- fants. No sort of prepared foods should be used until after the age of six months. It will be sometimes advantageous to vary the infant's food ;- the three ways of preparing the milk, viz. with plain water, with lime-water, or with bai'ley-water, may have to be used succes- sively to ensure good digestion, and with some infants the food requires to be varied every two or three days. If none of these ways of preparing cow's milk suit the child's digestion, artificially digested milk should be tried. Benger's Liquor Pancreaticus, or Savory and Moore's peptonising pellets are the best means for preparing artificially digested milk (see pp. 13, 18). The artificially digested milk should be mixed with water according to the age of the child. If the infant be unable to digest cow's milk even in this stater ass's or goat's milk may be tried with one-third or one-fourth part of barley-water or equal quantities of lime-water. If in spite of this change the milk is still undigested, the infant must have no milk for a day or two, and mixtures of veal- or chicken-broth (half a pound of meat to a pint of broth) with an equal quantity of barley-water, or of whey and barley-water, or meat juice must constitute the sole food. If the mother have not sufficient milk to satisfy the child, pancreatised milk should be given alternately with the breast milk, or whey prepared from milk with pepsine wine (one and a half teaspoonfuls to the pint) mixed with water and a little cream (see p. 19). The Aylesbury Dairy Company supply very good whey, and also artificial human milk which sometimes will suit a child whose stomach rejects other mixtures of milk. If the mother's supply of milk be very poor and scanty, the breast should be given only twice a day, and for the other meals milk and lime-water, or cream, whey and water as above, to which after the first six weeks a tablespoonful of milk may be added. Only new, unskimmed milk should be used for children brought up by hand.