41 JELLIES. shell in the jelly, and warm gently over a moderate fire, stirring the jelly diligently. (If the jelly be heated too much the white of egg will coagulate.) As soon as it begins to become flaky, cover the jelly and let it cool until the white of egg separates. Pass it through a cloth until it is quite clear, then add a little meat-extract, and put the jelly into a mould till cold. Gravy may be added to the jelly, or lemon-juice for flavouring. A quarter of an ounce of isinglass will make the jelly firmer. Beef, Veal, and Caffs-foot Jelly (3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil two calf's-feet, two ounces of veal, and a quarter of a pound of beef, the bottom of a small loaf, and a little mace and salt with half a nutmeg, in three quarts of water to three pints; strain, and remove the fat. Shank Jelly (3, 4, 5, 6).—Soak four shanks of mutton for four hours, then brush and scour them very clean ; lay them in a saucepan with one blade of mace, about ten black pepper-corns, some sweet herbs, and a crust of bread toasted very brown. Pour on a quart of water and set the saucepan close covered on a Lot hearth; let it simmer gently for five hours; strain, and keep in a cold place. This is improved by the addition of half a pound of beef. Isinglass Jelly (3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil an ounce of isinglass (with or without twelve cloves) in two pints of water down to one pint. Strain while hot through a flannel bag on to two ounces of sugar candy, and flavour with two tablespoonfuls of Chartreuse if no cloves have been added. (Dr. King Chambers.) Half a pint of claret or of port may be used to flavour this jelly instead of the Chartreuse. (This jelly is not nourishing.) Iceland and Irish Moss Jelly (2, 3, 4, 5).—Well wash and soak one ounce of Iceland moss, and one ounce of Irish moss separately; add a good pinch of bicarbonate of soda to the water in which the Iceland moss is soaked. Boil the two mosses in a pint and a half of milk for three quarters of an hour, strain through muslin, and add three ounces of white sugar. Claret Jelly (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Dissolve one ounce of isinglass in a little water, and put it into a saucepan with half a pound of loaf sugar, and the juice and thinly cut rind of one lemon. Pom- over these half a pint of boiling water, and stir until the sugar is melted. Add a pint of claret, and strain without pressure through two thicknesses of flannel. Put it into a wet mould, and let it cool. When cold turn it out of the mould. Port may be sub- stituted for the claret. Egg Jelly (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Put three quarters of an ounce of isinglass into a saucepan with a pint of cold water; boil up quickly, and let it boil iintil it is reduced to one half, taking off the scum as it rises. Let it cool, and put it into a stewpan with three ounces of white sugar, and the thinly cut peel of one lemon, and heat all