49 FARINACEOUS POOD. sugar. Two dessertspoonfuls of wine, or one of brandy may be added to make it more digestible. Arrowroot (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Mix two teaspoonfuls of the best arrowroot smoothly with three tablespoonfuls of cold water ; put the paste into a saucepan and add three quarters of a pint of boiling water, stirring diligently; sweeten with sifted sugar. Let it boil for ten minutes, stirring all the time. A wineglassfnl of white wine, or a tablespoonful of brandy added to it will be advantageous. Panada, I. (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Grate an ounce of stale bread- crumbs, and pour a little boiling water over them; strain off the water and put them into a saucepan with a pint of milk. Boil without stirring till they mix and turn smooth. Sweeten and flavour with cinnamon, almond, or a tablespoonful of sherry. Beef-tea, meat peptone, or peptonised meat jelly may be added to tbe above. II. (3, 4, 5, 6).—Put three-quarters of an ounce of toast broken into pieces, a pinch of salt, and a quarter of an ounce of butter, into a saucepan containing a pint and a quarter of water. Boil up over a quick fire for twenty minutes, stirring all the time. Beat up the yolks of two eggs with a wineglassful of milk, and add a quarter of an ounce of butter. Put the panada into the soup tureen, and pour the egg and milk into it with one hand, while stirring with the other. One or two wineglassfuls of milk may be added if the panada is too thick. Bread Jelly (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Break up the crumb of a stale loaf, cover it with boiling water, and let it soak for some hours. Strain off the water completely, and add fresh water; boil untii it becomes smooth. Press out the water in a hair sieve, and let the bread cool; it will form a thick jelly. Mix some of this jelly with milk and water and sugar as it is wanted. (Br. Churchill apud Dr. Broadbent.) Tapioca Jelly (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Soak a cupful of best tapioca m a pint of cold water till soft; drain it, and put the tapioca in a saucepan with half a cupful of sugar, the thinly cut rind of a lemon, and its juice, a little salt, and a pint of fresh water Stir until it boils; turn it into a mould to cool, and add a glass of wine. Arrowroot or sago jelly made in the same way Farinaceous Jelly (2-3,3,4,5,6).—Bake dry for one hour (or soak for twelve hours, wash and drain) tapioca, whole rice pearl barley and sago, of each two ounces; boil in two quarts of water over a slow fire, stirring meanwhile; strain through a sieve and flavour with sugar and lemon or orange-juice Porridge, I (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Mix two tablespoonfuls of coarsely ground Scotch oatmeal with a small teacupful of cold water til] 4