FARINACEOUS POOD. 45 barley, Indian meal, sago, arrowroot, tapioca, groats, honimy, &c but whichever ingredient is chosen, it should be put dry into a warm oven for an hour before being converted into gruel (Fothergill), or be soaked for several hours before being boiled. A teaspoonful of brandy, or, better still, of gin in a basin of gruel, arrowroot, or sago makes it more digestible. Fortified G-ruels, i. e. gruels made from cereals or legumma, and mixed with milk or beef-tea, are more nutritious than water gruel. If the meal from which gruel is to be made be mixed beforehand with one eighth part of its weight of ground malt, its nutritive value is much increased, and it is still liquid; if this gruel be combined with milk or beef-tea it forms a varied and highly nutritious liquid food, which may be especially recom- mended in typhoid fever. Cereals and leguminous products may be combined in various ways with advantage. (Sir Wm. Roberts.) Gruel made with a mixture of ground malt may require strain- ing if the malt is coarsely ground, and especially when there is any irritability of the digestive tract. Porridge is a most excellent and economical article of food, if it is slowly cooked, and free from lumps; it should be passed through a coarse strainer, and eaten slowly. The coarse oatmeal porridge requires longer cooking than that made from fine oatmeal > and is so much the more digestible. Light Puddings serve as a transition diet from the lighter fluid slops, such as milk and beef-tea, to more solid food. They may be made of tapioca, arrowroot, sago, hominy, semolina, Indian meal, rice, &c, and should not have much sugar. Two tablespoonfuls of the flour preferred to a pint of milk is the right proportion. Arrowroot is useful in diarrhoea, especially for children, but it is the least nourishing of the starchy foods. Rice is nourishing and digestible, though not so digestible as most farinaceous articles, as it contains more starch than any other kind of meal. Rice pudding, or rice milk, or rice pilau, are the best ways of preparing it for invalids. Rice milk ought to be long boiled, and is a good remedy, with or without chocolate, against diarrhoea. Tapioca, Sago, Semolina, and Oswego Corn are all nou- rishing and digestible, and are given in gruel or puddings. They must be thoroughly boiled for two or three hours, not lumpy, and should be passed through a coarse sieve after boiling. Tapioca is perhaps the most wholesome, semolina the most nourishing. Vermicelli and Macaroni are highly nourishing and diges- tible. They must be boiled a long time till quite soft, and then form a substantial meal, and more digestible to some persons