FISH. 81 Boiled Cod and Oyster Sauce (4, 5, 6).—Rub a slice of cod with lemon-juice and salt, and let it lie for two hours, then put it into enough boiling water to cover the fish, having previously put into the water an ounce of salt to each quart of water, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Boil for twenty minutes. Oyster Sauce (5,6).—Remove the beards from six oysters, pre- serving the liquor. Boil the beards in the liquor for ten minutes, and strain. Mix a quarter of a teaspoonful of baked flour with half an ounce of butter smoothly on a plate, and put it into a saucepan with the strained liquor from the beards, and three and a half tablespoonf uls of milk; stir in one direction only over a quick fire; let it boil for a minute or two, then remove it to the side of the fire, and after it has stood for five minutes put in the oysters. Let the sauce stand near the fire for five minutes longer, and serve with the boiled cod. Cod Cutlets (5, 6).—Out two slices of cod about three-quarters of an inch thick ; rub each slice with a teaspoonful of lemon-juice and a pinch of salt, and let it saturate for two hours. Then wipe it, wrap it in buttered paper, and boil gently over a clear fire for five to ten minutes. Serve with a slice of lemon. Fried Cod and Oysters (5, 6).—Prepare two slices of cod as above. When saturated, wipe them dry, dip them in milk, sprinkle them with well-browned flour, and put them into a frying-pan containing boiling butter. Fry slowly for fifteen minutes. Serve with half a dozen oysters to each slice, and pour the liquor from the oysters over the cod. Broiled Mackerel (4, 5, 6).—Cleanse the inside of the fish thoroughly, but do not wash it; cut a slit an inch deep along the back of the fish from the head to the tail; rub the mackerel with the strained juice of half a lemon mixed with two pinches of salt and a pinch of black pepper, and lay it aside for an hour. Roll it in buttered paper, and broil it over a clear fire six minutes on one side, seven on the other, and four minutes on the split part. Serve with melted butter. Boiled Mackerel (4, 5, 6).—Put the fish into nearly boiling water with an ounce of salt to each quart of water; boil up, skim well, and then let it simmer gently till cooked thoroughly. Serve with melted butter. N.B.—Mackerel are very unwholesome if not quite fresh. Boiled Haddock (3, 4, 5, G).—Choose a small haddock, scrape and gut it, wash it well, and rub it with lemon-juice and salt; lay it aside for an hour. Put it into boiling water with an ounce of salt to each quart of water; boil quickly, skim, and let it simmer gently for twelve to fifteen minutes, according to size. Haddock should not be over done. Serve with slices of lemon. Baked Haddock (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Clean the fish as above and rub it with lemon-juice and salt, and let it saturate for two 6