36 SOUPS, BROTHS, AND BEEF-TEA. ounce of the best pearl sago until the water poured frorn it is clear. Then stew the sago in half a pint of water until it is quite tender and very thick ; mix with it a quarter of a pint of good cream, and the yolks of two fresh eggs, and mingle the whole carefully with a pint of good beef-tea, which should be boiling, but should not go on boiling after the other ingredients have been mixed with it. Meat Panada (3, 4, 5, 6).—Grate an ounce of stale bread crumbs; soak in boding water; mix them with three quarters of a pint of veal or chicken broth or beef-tea, and boil till it thickens. Soup a la Heine (3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil a fowl gently in about two quarts of white veal stock, with a carrot, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme and a bayleaf, and a teaspoonful of salt, and one of sugar. In about an hour, when the fowl is cooked, take it out, and let it cool for a quarter of an hour, while you strain the stock, and remove all the fat. Take off all the meat of the fowl, chop it up, and pound it in a mortar, and add in small pieces the crumb of a French roll moistened in the strained stock. Put the stock and the pounded meat and bread crumbs back into the saucepan, and let it simmer for an hour or more, taking care that it does not boil. Pass through a sieve, and serve. Scotch Broth (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Boil slowly in one pint and a half of water one pound of lean mutton (the bone not being weighed with the meat, but boiled with it), till quite tender; add half a pound of rice (well soaked in two waters) with a pinch of salt and one of pepper (and a small onion if allowable). When the rice is soft, take out the meat and bones, and let the broth cool. Remove all the fat. Next day cut up half a pound of lean mutton into dice, and bod these in the broth till quite tender, skimming off any fat that may rise. Serve hot. Egg Soup (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Beat up the yolks of two eggs ; melt a piece of butter of the size of a walnut, and beat it up with the e°-»s. Put the mixture in an enamelled saucepan over a slow fire, and add gradually one pint of water, stirring constantly. When it begins to boil, pour it backwards and forwards between the saucepan and a jug till it is quite smooth and frothy. Add sugar to taste. (Br. King Chambers.) Consommo (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Remove the breast of a fowl, and roast the rest of the bird at a very quick fire until it is coloured, but not cooked; then put it into a stewpan with three pounds of beef and two pounds of veal cut up into pieces ; add three quarts of grand bouillon; bod, skim, and add salt, and^ two carrots. Simmer for four hours; then strain the consomme, take off the fat and clarify the consomme with the breast of the fowl. Oyster Soup (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Take a dozen oysters, take off the beards and put the beards with the liquor from the oysters