110 SANDWICHES, ETC. Fish-roe Sandwich. (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—The fish-roe should be beaten up in a mortar, and toasted before the fire. Caviare, cod's-roe, or bloater-roe may be used. Cod's-roe Sandwiches (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Pound some smoked ■cod's-roe with a little oiled butter into a paste, and spread it evenly on the sandwich; flavour with a few drops of lemon-juice-. Potted-meat Sandwiches (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—The potted-meat should be made at home, and thoroughly minced and pounded. These sandwiches are wholesome and appetising. Game Sandwiches (3, 4, 5, 6).—May be made from thin slices of the breast of any game birds. Sardine Sandwiches (3, 4, 5, 6).—The sardines should be boned and trimmed and flavoured with a few drops of lemon- juice squeezed over them. Brown bread may be used for these sandwiches instead of white. For the bread in any of the above sandwiches slices of toast of a light brown colour and thinly spread with butter may be sub- stituted ; but 1he toast must not be allowed to get cold. Cheese Sandwiches (4, 5, 6).—Pound some cheese with one- fourth its weight of butter, spread it on brown bread and butter, sprinkle it with salt and pepper, and cover with a slice of bread and butter. Put all in the oven until the bread is lightly toasted. Serve hot. Cheese Straws (5, 6).—Rub a quarter of a pound of baked flour with two ounces of butter, and mix in two ounces of Parmesan cheese, half a saltspoonful of salt, and the same quantity of pepper; mix well together. Beat the white of an egg with four table- spoonfuls of cold water, and stir into the cheese and flour enough of the beaten-up white of egg to form a white paste; knead the paste well, roll it out in strips, and cut these of the required length. Lay them side by side and bake in a quick oven for about five minutes till they are of a pale brown. Bread and Butter.—The bread should be stale and cut in thin slices, and the butter well rubbed in, not dabbed on in lumps. {Dr. Fothergill.) Angels on Horseback (3, -i, 5, 6).—Toast some thin slices of bread to a light brown colour, and keep them warm. Fry very thin slices of fat bacon without rind, curl them up, ench on a slice of toast, and place on each slice of bacon one or two oysters, which should be first warmed through. Serve hot.