CHOICE OP FOOD. 5 drowning them. Half a pint to a pint of fluid is enough at any 0I4 Various other points are noteworthy with regard to the consumption of the food. Meals should be taken at fixed hours and regular intervals. The hours should be so arranged that the chief meals of the day may be taken before and after work, not while the mind is occupied. Persons engaged in business during the day should make breakfast and dinner the most important meals, and should eat only a light lunch, as at the time of the latter meal they cannot allow themselves sufficient rest of body and mind before and after eating to ensure perfect digestion. Half an hour or more of complete rest is necessary before the chief meals, and after these an hour should be given to rest or gentle exercise, such as a game of billiards. The intervals between meals should not be too long; four or five hours is a suitable time for most people to allow for the digestion of a good meal. If, through any accident, a meal be° delayed until considerably later than the usual time, that meal should be made a light one. Rest of body and tranquillity of mind are both necessary for proper digestion, as fatigue and anxiety, by their action on the nerves, prevent the stomach from doing its work. Light, cheer- ful conversation during a meal is the best sauce and digestive; failing this, an amusing book which does not require much thought. Such occupation prevents too fast eating and hurrying over meals. The clothing of the body has also an influence on digestion ; it should be warm, so as to keep up that warmth of the body which is necessary to foster the digestive process. A flannel belt next the skin helps many dyspeptics to digest their food better; warm stockings and suitable boots are also of use for this purpose. Dyspeptic persons who suffer from cold feet should change their stockings whenever the feet feel cold. Rheumatic and consumptive persons and delicate children should wear flannel drawers as well as vests. Pressure of the clothes over the digestive organs is to be avoided. The rooms in which meals are taken should be properly heated, but not too hot—from 55° to 60° is a fair temperature. . To ensure perfect digestion, it is necessary to take a fair allowance of sleep, but the amount of sleep necessary varies according to the constitution of the individual. Some do well enough with six hours' sleep, others require eight or nine hours ; more than this generally does more harm than good. Sleep during the day is not necessarily prejudicial to digestion, but should be taken in a partly reclining position, not sitting bolt upright in a chair, and before dinner rather than after dinner. The bedroom should be cool and well ventilated and reasonably