ENEMATA AND PREDIGESTED POODS. 9 morphia should be added to the enema if there be much irrita- bility of the bowel. . A dessertspoonful of Benger's Liquor pancreaticus added to an enema just before administration causes it to be more easily assimilated. (Sir Wm. Roberts.) Blood enemata should consist of four to six tablespooniuls ot fresh defibrinated ox blood, repeated every three hours. Beef-tea and Cream Enemata (1).—Mix together four table- spoonfuls of strong beef-tea, one tablespoonful of cream, and a dessertspoonful of brandy or three dessertspoonfuls of port wine. Warm to blood heat, and add of Benger's Liquor pancreaticus a dessertspoonful. This enema may be administered every two, four, or six hours. Take four tablespoonfuls of " fluid beef " (p. 32), prepared with- out acid, one tablespoonful of cream, and a dessertspoonful of brandy. "Warm to blood heat, and add a dessertspoonful of Liquor pancreaticus. Every two, four, or six hours. Suppositories (1) may be made of soluble meat, or of meat peptone, &c, with a little morphia if necessary; the outside should be oiled instead of having the suppository made up with cacao butter. (Tyson.) Pancreatised Milk (1, 2, 3, &c.) may be instilled slowly into the rectum by a suitable apparatus, whereby the milk is not thrown up into the bowel, but passes through a long flexible tube by gravitation. Three pints in twenty-four hours are sufficient. (Tyson.) "Leube's Pancreas and Meat Enema (1).—The fresh pancreas and meat are finely minced, and carefully mixed in the propor- tion of one part by weight of pancreas to three parts of meat. Two to three ounces of meat are used for each injection, and the meat and pancreas are mixed with enough warm water to make a thin paste. The pancreas is only fit for use in summer, on the day of the slaughter of the animal, in winter, two or three days after- wards. Glycerine Extract of Pancreas (1, 2, 3, &c.).—The fresh pancreas is minced finely, and mixed with half a pound of glycerine; the pancreas and glycerine are thoroughly rubbed together in a mortar. One-fourth of this extract is added to three or four ounces of freshly chopped meat for each injection. The mixing of the glycerine extract with the meat must be per- formed immediately before use. The glycerine extract of pancreas may be kept for several days. Leube uses rather larger quantities for injection than are usual in England. Savory and Moore's Meat Peptone (2, 3, 4, 5) is an excellent nutritive preparation which is very easily digested, and is very