CHOICE OF FOOD. have elapsed since dinner, a cup of beef-tea is of advantage. If sleepless at night, a biscuit or sandwich, or some such light food, with a glass of wine, mulled or not, according to the fancy of the individual, or a cup of beef-tea, or gruel, or arrowroot with wine, should be provided. „.■,..• a 2 Perfect cooking is essential to perfect digestion. As to im- perfect cooking, "Godsends the meat, and the devil sends the cooks " The greater part of the ensuing pages being devoted to recipes for cooking, it is unnecessary to expatiate here on this subiect It may be as well, however, to remark that food and drinks should not be either too hot or too cold. Hot tea and hot soups cause a great part of the ordinary troubles of digestion. On the other hand, iced water is to blame for much ot the dyspepsia prevalent in America. The proper temperature ot drinking water is about 55 degrees, of beer and light wines about 50 degrees, and of red wines about 60 degrees, i. e., that ot the dining-room. ,. , Alf food should be neatly and tidily served up ; a dirty cup or spoon will often disgust a sick person, and make him refuse food which he might otherwise have taken. Cups, plates, &c, which have been used should not be left in the sick room; and food should be kept outside the room in any convenient place, not m the room itself. Food should not be prepared nor warmed up m the chamber of an invalid, nor in any part of the house where the smell of the cooking can reach him. Nurses and attendants on sick people should be clean and tidy in their habits, as well as quiet in their movements, and cheertui and pleasant in their conversation. _ -,111, 3 Food should be carefully eaten; meat,for instance, should be neatly carved in thin slices (especially if it be beef, yeal ham, or pork) against the grain, and then further subdivided into small mouthfuls. If the teeth be irregular, each mouthful should be scored across several times before it is put into the mouth Dyspepsia is not infrequently due to the want of a good set ot teeth; these, if artificial, should be perfectly comfortable to the mouth. Each mouthful must be thoroughly chewed before being swallowed. It is better to spend too long than too short a time in mastication. ,, . . If the meal consist of farinaceous food or vegetables, it is even more important that these be thoroughly masticated and satu- rated with saliva before being swallowed. For most people the best form of meal is that which consists of meat, bread or other farinaceous food, and vegetables. The fluids consumed during a meal should not be taUen at tne beginning of a meal, but towards the end of it. Soup is an exception to this rule, because soup is an easily digested fluid, which stimulates the digestive juices instead of diluting or