27 SOUPS, BROTHS, AND BEEP-TEA. chicken broth, may often be given with advantage for twenty- four hours, followed by a diet of milk and lime-water for several days until the digestion recovers its powers. Where there is much acidity of the stomach, ground malt should be added to the milk puddings in place of sugar. Dr. Fothergill makes the excellent suggestion that hard crusts and hard biscuits help the development of the jaws and teeth of children. The above diets are only to be adopted gradually, substituting one meal a day of the more advanced diet for that used for younger children. If the digestion appears to be in any way interfered with by the change, a simpler diet must be imme- diately adopted, and it will be then often found expedient to feed the child on milk and lime-water, or on beef-tea only, for twenty-four hours. After ten or twelve months a child should be weaned from the breast, as the milk is no longer a proper nourishment after this age. Weaning should be accomplished gradually, by lessening the number of times that he is allowed to take the breast during the day. Two or three days should be allowed for each reduction of the breast supply. Preparation of Lime-water.—Two ounces of clean slaked lime are to be put into one gallon of boiled and filtered water, in stoppered bottles. Only the clear part at the top of the bottle is to be used, the thick part at the bottom of the bottle is to be thrown away, and the bottle thoroughly cleaned before being re-filled. Preparation of Oatmeal Gruel for constipated Infants.— Take a teaspoonful of common coarse sweet (not bitter) oatmeal, and soak it all night in a tumblerful and a half of cold water; then put it into a clean covered quart saucepan, and place the saucepan near the fire, to let the contents heat slowly. After a time place it on the fire, and stir it until it boils, and for two minutes afterwards; then pour through a hair-sieve. For a child of four to six months old, half milk and half the above gruel may be given in the bottle every four hours. {Lancet.) Brown-bread Water or Lentil Gruel prepared in the same way will also be found efficacious. V. SOUPS, BROTHS, AND BEEF-TEA. Soups, Broths and Beef-tea.—Soups and broths as a means of providing liquid nourishment are now somewhat out of fashion. The strong beef-tea, which used to be considered as a concentrated form of nourishment, and to be given accordingly to all, or nearly all, sick persons who needed food and support