59 BRINKS. refreshing drinks, but tend to diminish fever. They will, how- ever, sometimes disagree, and should not be given too liberally. Mulberry and gooseberry syrups, with the addition of water, may be substituted for raspberry vinegar and lemonade, but are not so wholesome, nor so refreshing. Sherbet will sometimes agree better than lemonade, and, if not made too sweet, may be used as a substitute for it, especially when there is nausea and sickness. Lemon squash is even better than sherbet. Oxymel, which is made of vinegar and honey, if freely diluted with water, makes a good alternative for lemonade, and is useful to dissolve the concretions produced in the intestine by too pro- longed use of magnesia or soda. Hydromel, i.e. honey and water, is a refreshing drink. Oxycrat, i.e. vinegar and water with sugar, may also be sub- stituted for lemonade. As to eau sucree and orgeat, and other preparations of almonds, they are not unpleasant, bat their nourishing and digestive pro- perties are exaggerated. Lime-juice, though excellent for scurvy, is too rough in flavour to be acceptable to invalids, and is besides liable to disagree. The Aylesbury Dairy Company supply a very wholesome and refreshing effervescent drink which they call " Bland," and which is variously flavoured. They claim that it promotes digestion. Alcoholic Drinks. A few years ago, almost every disease was treated with alcohol in some form or other; nowadays it is the fashion to deciy alcohol, and to forbid its administration altogether. Probably it will not be long before medical men will partly revert to their former practice, and again prescribe moderate quantities of al- cohol in many diseases in which it is now considered unnecessary or injurious. Dr. King Chambers makes the following remarks on alcohol: 1. In moderate quantities with meals alcohol increases the appetite and the digestive powers. 2. In excess it damages the nervous system, thereby causing hysteria or alcoholism; it also damages the blood-vessels and impairs the vital activity. These influences continue as long as the alcohol is retained in the blood. 3. The principal diseases caused by continued and regular excess in alcohol are congestion and hardening of the liver, Bright's disease, condensation of the lungs, thickening of the larynx and bronchi, and ossification and thickening of the walls of the arteries.