108 MEAT. Next, strain the gravy through a fine tammy; remove carefully every atom of grease, and reduce it over the lire about a quarter. Lastly, untie the beef, place it oh the dish for serving; add the calves' feet, each having been cut in eight pieces, the carrots cut into pieces the size of a cork, and ten glazed onions. Arrange the calves' feet, carrots and onions, round the beef; pour the sauce over the meat. Taste it in order to ascertain if sufficiently seasoned. Beef a la mode should be very relishing. (Sir Henry Thompson, from Gouffe.) The onions may be omitted if they are likely to disagree. Beef a la Mode, Cold (5, 6).—Dress the beef as above. When done place it in a bowl, instead of on a dish, with the feet, vege- tables, and gravy. Let it cool, and turn it out into a dish before serving. Westphalian Braised Beef (5, 6).—Take a piece of tender fillet and cut off the fat; divide it by deep notches into slices, not separating them; sprinkle a little pepper and salt between the slices. Put it into an earthenware pot with a cover, and over the meat put a number of raw peeled potatoes dusted over with salt. Cover the pot very closely, and lute it with paste and "dace it under the grate, covered with hot ashes, for four hours. Common Braise (5, 6).—Line a stewpan with slices bacon and of beef as thick as your finger; season with thyme parsley, carrots, bay-leaves, pepper and salt. On this bed place lie meat to be braised; cover it, and season it with the ingredients above named; fill the vessel as full as possible; close the stewpan and lute the joints with paste. Pat it on the fire, and cover it with hot ashes, diminishing the heat as cooking progresses. White Braise (demi-braise) (5, 6).—Proceed as above, sub- stituting veal for beef, aud not using so much seasoning. This braise is for small pieces of meat. Fillet-steak with Anchovy Butter (4, 5, 6).—Out from the fillet (crosswise) a slice an inch thick, trim it, cut out all the white stringy parts, dust with salt and pepper, and rub it over with oil; grill it for a few minutes, turning frequently; well wash and sponge an anchovy, bone it, and crush it; then mix it well with an ounce and a quarter of butter, pass it through a colander, and put it on a hot plate; place the steak on it and serve. Meat-jelly (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Take two pounds of shin of beef, two pounds of knuckle of veal, a fowl, and a calf's foot; put all into nearly two quarts of water with an ounce of salt; boil up, skim, and add a large carrot, a celery root, tbyme, a bay-leaf, and parsley; simmer for four hours, until the water is reduced to one half; strain and let it grow cold. If the jelly is not quite clear when cold beat up the whites of two eggs, and bod up with the jelly; skim, strain again, and serve either cold as jelly, or as a warm broth.