DRINKS. €0 4. Excessive drinking not only increases the risk of injury, but interferes with the recovery after injury. 5. Alcohol does not prevent tuberculosis (consumption), but does retard its progress. 6. Drunkenness is not so dangerous as drinking without getting drunk. Intoxication produces indigestion and vomiting, which clears the blood of the alcohol imbibed. 7. Some kinds of alcohol are worse than others. New spirits, which contain fusel oil, are especially injurious. The same author gives the following rules concerning alcohol: (a) The best time to take it is after work, or with the evening meal. (b) The increase of appetite and of digestive power is the guide as to whether to take alcohol, and as to what kind and what quantity should be taken. (c) Care should be taken that the alcohol be good of its kind. (d) No alcohol at all should be taken by those who have a hereditary tendency to hysteria or other nervous diseases. (e) Some dyspeptic persons do better without any alcohol during the day, but a glass of hot whiskey toddy on going to bed. (/) The daily use at dinner of a moderate amount of alcohol is good for brain workers. A good light wine is the best form, beer the next best, then strong wines diluted with water, and lastly diluted spirits. Alcohol should never be taken on an empty stomach, and should never be given to children. In old age less alcohol suffices, but it should not be quite given up by those who have all their lives been accustomed to take it, else a slight illness may carise fatal effects; even total abstainers should relax their rule in advanced age. Sometimes alcohol is the only form of food which the stomach can deal with, but when possible easily as- similated food, such as light biscuits or pancreatised gruel, should be given with it, even when the digestion is much impaired. " There are two matters connected with alcohol well worth bearing in mind. " 1. Never have alcohol in the brain when it has work to do. " 2. A little alcohol between a man and a past trouble is per- missible, but it is not well to put a little alcohol in front of a coming trouble." (Dr. Fothergill.) " 1. Alcohol is useful in the course of most acute diseases, when the organs of circulation begin to fail, as they are apt to do. A moderate quantity usually suffices. " 2. In convalescence from acute diseases or from other weaken- ing ailments, when the circulation remains feeble, and the tem- perature is often subnormal, alcohol is also useful in promoting the circulation and assisting digestion.