FRUIT. 117 too, are not very wholesome, and should only be eaten m small quantities. The third class of rind-fruits have a thin rind and very firm flesh, with comparatively little juice, and contains apples, pears, quinces, bananas, figs, and medlars. These are, as a rule, in- digestible, though they have some nutritive properties. Apples, pears, and quinces should not be eaten raw, and bananas should not be cooked. Figs are the most wholesome of fruits of this class, and are sometimes useful as laxatives. Nuts, the last sort of fruit in this arbitrary division, contain more nutriment than any of the other fruits, but are exceedingly indigestible, especially for persons whose teeth are decayed. If the kernels of nuts be pounded to a paste in a mortar, they become digestible, but probably no one will think them worth eating in this state. Chestnuts, if thoroughly well boiled, and deprived of all the inside skin, are allowable for persons with very sound and even teeth, who can reduce the chestnuts to a pulp before swallowing them. Sweet soup thickened with chest- nuts rubbed through a sieve is not unwholesome. {Br. King Chambers.) Fresh sweet almonds are not very unwholesome if thoroughly chewed, but they should not be used in puddings or cakes for persons whose digestion is delicate. Almond milk is wholesome, and is a domestic remedy in diarrhoea, and pain on passing water. Cocoa-nuts are unwholesome in every form, especially as comfits. Preserved fruits are unwholesome, excepting dried figs, and prunes; raisins and dates are tolerably digestible, and may be eaten in small quantities. Fruits preserved in alcohol are worse than those preserved in sugar. If people will eat tinned fruits, they should throw away all the liquor in the tins; and the fruit is more digestible if washed before serving. Fruits preserved in sugar lose their natural flavour, and the sugar causes acidity of the stomach and heartburn, and this is also true of jam in some cases. When fruit stewed with sugar causes acidity Dr. Fothergill recommends the substitution for sugar of as nmch bicarbonate of soda as will lie on a shilling to each pound of fruit. The juice of fresh fruits mixed with water, or made into water ices, is a pleasant refreshment for feverish patients and other sick people. Jams and jellies made of acidulous fruit may be boiled in water, and given when cool as a drink if fresh fruit is not to be had.