FISH. 77 cause their flesh to be dangerous, as, like mussels, they have sometimes a poisonous effect. . , Of fresh-water fish not many are sought atter m England, though some that we do not value are much esteemed on the Continent, as, for instance, barbel, bleak, roach, carp, and pike. Of those most commonly brought to table, the following are the most important: Trout are very delicate and digestible. They are excellent food for invalids, and maybe boiled in water or in court-bouillon, grilled, baked or stewed. _ Dace are very good and wholesome when crimped and broiled. February is their best season. Gudgeon are delicate and wholesome and very good eating, especially when fried. They may also be stewed. Loaches are dressed like smelts, and are well flavoured and digestible. , - . ■, Perch are digestible and tasty. They are served fried, grilled, or boiled in court-bouillon. Grayling is a fish of good flavour and easy to digest. Bream.—Same qualities as grayling. Pike.—Easily digested but dry. The liver of large pike is of very delicate flavour, but not very wholesome. The roe is a dan- gerous food. Carp are best when caught in rivers and lakes, but even at their best they are muddy and lie heavy on the stomach. They are served fried or grilled. The tongue is the best part of the carp. Like other mud-loving fish, they should be laid in fresh water for twenty-four hours before being cooked. Barbel are insipid and not very digestible. When young they are eatable if fried. Tench.—Same qualities as barbel. Miller's Thumbs and Bleak should be fried in their own fat. They are good eating, but unwholesome. Eelpouts are easily digested by some people and unwholesome to others. They should be soaked in fresh and frequently changed water before cooking. The roe should be avoided, but the large pale-red liver is a delicacy. Lampreys are difficult of digestion even in moderate quanti- ties ; they are said to have caused the death of Henry I. Eels are too rich and oily for any but the strongest diges- tions. The hard roe of some sorts of fish, such as the herring and cod, is a good relish with toast or bread and butter for those persons who can digest it. It is also useful sometimes if given before meals to excite an appetite. Boasted Pish.—Place the fish, after the usual cleaning, en- tire, if of moderate size, say from a sole to a small turbot or