89 GAME AND WILD BIKDS. woodcock or snipe, remove the skin, and put them into a stew- pan with the trail and liver, Ohablis or sherry, salt, pepper, and bread-crusts. Boil a few minutes, and serve with the sauce. 2 la Grimod (4, 5, 6).—Cut up the birds, which should not have been quite roasted, crush tbe liver and trail, and add the juice of two lemons and the thinly-cut rind of half a one, and season with two pinches of salt, and a saltspoonful of mustard- powder, and half a glass of Sauterne or Ohablis. Warm the plate over a gas-stove or spirit-lamp, moving the pieces about in the sauce. Do not let it boil, but when on the point of boiling add a dash of good oil, turn down the gas, and stir for a few minutes. Serve very hot on the plate on which the cooking has been done. Quails (3^4, 4, 5, 6) should not be drawn. Boasted (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Cover with slices of bacon and vine- leaves and roast for twenty minutes at a quick fire. Stewed (4, 5, 6) on a slice of ham and one of veal, and covered with slices of bacon and a sheet of paper. The fire should be moderate. G-rouse, Heathcock, Blackcock, Ptarmigan (3-4, 4, 5, 6), should not be washed, but wiped with a damp cloth. Boasted. Fieldfare (4, 5, 6) (Juniper Thrush). Boasted. Partridge (3-4, 4,5, 6). Boast.—Cover the bird with slices of lemon free from rind and pips, over this slices of bacon, and over all a sheet of buttered paper. Serve with gravy and lemon-juice. When they are three-fourths cooked, take off the paper. Or, cover with vine-leaves, and over these slices of bacon. Roast at a moderate fire. Serve with cut lemon. Grilled (5, 6). Braised (4-5, 5, 6).—Put in a stewpan with trimmings of meat and game, salt and pepper ; add half stock and half white wine (Chablis or Sauterne); cook in a gentle fire. Skim the sauce, pass it through a cloth, and season it with the juice and grated rind of a Seville orange. Larded Larks (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Draw the gizzards of three larks. Pluck and dress them. Take three thin slices of bacon about two and a half inches long and one and a quarter broad; cover each lark entirely with a slice of bacon. Spit the larks on one spit, transfixing the bacon with the larks; take care that the birds do not touch one another. Roast for eight minutes at a quick fire. Serve with the gravy, removing the bacon before serving. Garnish with watercress. Salmis de Mauviettes (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Take three roasted larks, remove their heads and the bones and gizzards. Pound all the meat in a mortar, moisten with some stock, and pass through a sieve. Season with salt, pepper, a little chopped