MILK AND ITS PBEPAKATIONS. 18 palate, and (in very small quantities) to help digestion, by causing increased secretion of the digestive fluid in the stomach ; if taken in larger quantities they are injurious, through causing too much irritation of the stomach, especially if they are mouldy. "When fresh these cheeses are more digestible, and are nourishing, though the quantity consumed is so small that they can hardly be described as an article of nutriment. Cream cheeses are more wholesome with powdered sugar and milk. The cheeses of the other classes are more wholesome, but somewhat less nourishing; they are more digestible if cut in thin slices and buttered. Eidam (Dutch) cheese is made more tasty by covering the cut part with a linen cloth moistened with salt water, and by pouring a couple of tablespoonfuls of hock or some light wine over the cut surface a few hours before the cheese is brought to table. Toasted cheese (Welsh rarebit) is digestible enough if new and lightly cooked with cream and butter. If over-cooked or tough it is about as digestible as leather. It should be eaten hot, and as a meal by itself, not after dinner or other heavy meal.* Cheese should not be given to persons suffering from acute illnesses, especially when the digestion is much affected, but it may be allowed to convalescents to stimulate the appetite. A plain and easily digestible cheese may be made in any house as follows:—Soak dried rennet (calf's stomach) about twenty- four hours in water, then add the rennet and the water to freshly milked, warm (or warmed-up) milk; cover the vessel over, and let it stand for half an hour in a fairly warm place until the curd has separated. Take out the curd and sprinkle it with salt, knead the curd together and tie it up in a cloth; then squeeze the curd in the cloth between two boards, not too heavily. Leave it under pressure for two or three days, then lay it in strong brine for eight days, turning it over daily. Lastly, take it out and dry it on perforated boards in the air (3-4, 4, 5, 6). (Wiel.) Panereatised Milk (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Dilute one pint of milk with a quarter of a pint of water. Divide this mixtm-e into two equal portions; boil one of these portions and add to it the other portion cold; add further two teaspoonfuls of Benger's Liquor Pancreaticus, and ten grains of bicarbonate of soda, or light magnesia; cover and keep warm. After from ten to thirty minutes, according to taste, boil it for two or three minutes if it has to be kept, or use it immediately without boiling. (After Sir William Roberts.) Milk and Lime (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Add as much powdered chalk as will lie on a sixpence to half a pint of milk. Stir it up before drinking. {Dr. Milner Fothergill.) * The foregoing remarks on cheeses aro chiefly extracted from Dr. King Chambers's work on • Diet.'