121 VEGETABLES. Lettuce is cool and refreshing; only the young leaves should be eaten, not the tougher outer leaves, nor the stalk. It is also digestible when cooked, and if artistically made into a salad. Turnips are a watery and flatulent food. Turnip-tops are better than cabbage, and cause less flatu- lence. Carrots are not very digestible, only young carrots being fit for any stomach but a farm-labourer's. Carrots with milk are said to be a good diet for children with worms. Radishes are very indigestible, and cause heartburn. Horse-radish is a not unwholesome stomachic stimulant in the quantity in which it is usually taken. It should be grated, not sliced, and is more piquant mixed with oil or honey. It may also be boiled in gravy, or with grated bread in milk. Onions should be avoided by all persons who have delicate digestions. Onions are said to have diuretic properties, and to be able to expel intestinal worms; in very small quantities, and when- thoroughly cooked, they excite a sluggish digestion to increased action. Onions are less unwholesome boiled than fried. Garlick and Leeks are worse than onions. Leeks make a good soup, if soft and not rank. Beetroot is a good enough addition to salads. Parsnips are unwholesome, but nutritious; with some people they cause a skin-eruption. Sea-kale is digestible if properly grown, but is not wholesome when coloured. Mushrooms are not injurious except in large quantities, but when they are over-ripe or rotten they become poisonous, and even if in good condition they are almost as dangerous when warmed up a second time. Truffles are not so indigestible as they are generally reputed; often the discomfort which follows their consumption is to be ascribed, not to the truffles, but to the food taken with them. The black truffle is, however, very unwholesome when too young, and not fit to eat when too old. It is necessary to be careful that truffles be genuine, as poisonous fungi are sometimes sub- stituted for them. Salsafy is a vegetable too little known in England; it is easily digestible and nutritious. It may be either boiled or fried. Scorzonera is also a very delicate root, and a nourishing, but it may cause flatulence. Like salsafy, it may be boiled or fried. Jerusalem Artichokes are watery, and may cause flatulence, if not, they are wholesome enough for those who like them. Artichokes are digestible if they be thoroughly boiled till soft. They sometimes cause sleeplessness. Some people can digest them better raw than cooked, but this is not usual.