50 FARINACEOUS FOOD. it is of uniform consistence; then pour in a pint of boiling water, and keep boiling and stirring for forty minutes. Serve quite hot in a soup plate with cold milk added to make it of an eatable temperature. (Dr. King Chambers.) II. (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Into a pint of boiling water dredge two tablespoonfuls of Scotch oatmeal, stirring all the while. Boil for thirty-five minutes, stirring frequently. Then add a pint of boiling milk, and let the porridge boil gently for five minutes. Add salt to the taste. If a teaspoonful of ground malt be mixed up with the oatmeal, the porridge is more nutritious and digestible (3, 4, 5, 6). Milk Porridge (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Mix a large tablespoonful of flour in a little cold water. Stir it into a pint of boiling water ; let it boil fifteen minutes, then add half a pint of milk, and salt, and let it boil up once. II. (3, 4, 5, 6).—Make a fine gruel of half grits, boiled for a long time; strain, and warm up with milk. Ground Rice Milk (3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil one spoonful of ground rice, melted down smooth with three half pints of milk, cinna- mon, and nutmeg. Sweeten when nearly done. Lemon-peel may be added. Lentil Porridge (4, 5, 6).—Mix three tablespoonfuls of lentil flour and a saltspoonful of salt into a paste with a pint of water. Boil for ten minutes, stirring constantly. (Dr. Fothergill.) Oatmeal Flummery (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Cover crushed Embden grits with water in a broad pan. Stir it up together, and let it stand twelve hours ; then pour off the water, so long as it runs clear. Add fresh water, mix, and let it stand twelve hours more. Drain, and repeat the same process a third time. When the oat- meal has been soaked thus for thirty-six hours, strain it through a hair sieve and boil it, stirring vigorously till it is quite thick. Eat it cold with milk, or a little wine and sugar. (Dr. King Bice Milk (3, 4, 5, 6).—Soak an ounce of rice for twelve hours, then wash and drain it. Boil a pint of milk, and pour the soaked rice into it; stir it well, and add a saltspoonful of salt, and the same quantity of powdered sugar. Cook very slowly for an hour. Rub it through a hair sieve. Sago Milk, Tapioca Milk (3, 4, 5, 6).—Made in a similar way. Arrowroot Milk (2-3, 3-4,4, 5, 6).—Mix two tablespoonfuls of arrowroot smoothly with three tablespoonfuls of cold milk; put it into a saucepan, and add three quarters of a pint of boiling milk, stirring constantly. Sweeten with sifted sugar, and boil gently for ten minutes, stirring all the time._ A little nutmeg or lemon- peel may be used as flavouring if desired. _ Biscuit and Milk, I. (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Soak a hard captain s biscuit in milk or in water for about eight hours until it is quite