MILK AND ITS PREPARATIONS. 12 Lave just calved, is not fit for human consumption, and the milk from old, ill-treated, or diseased cows is dangerous to those who drink it. Various diseases, e. g. typhoid and scarlet fever, measles and diphtheria, have been spread by the carelessness of dairy- keepers and their servants. Good unskimmed milk may be recognised by the following characteristics: 1. It should be of an opaque, dull, yellowish-white colour, not transparent nor bluish. 2. There should not be the slightest sourness in its smell, o. It should taste sweetish. 4. A drop taken up in a clean silver spoon, or placed upon the thumbnail, should not run, but, as it were, stick to the surface on which it is placed. 5. A drop of good milk should sink in water. 6. When heated, a kind of skin should form over the surface of the milk. 7. Good unskimmed milk, if rubbed between the fingers, has a greasy, fatty feel. The amount of cream in milk is roughly estimated by the lactometer and cream tester. The milk obtained in the morning is lightest and most diges- tible, while the noon and evening milkings give richer milk. Milk in winter contains less fat and cheese-forming material than in summer. Milk should be kept in a cool, dry cellar, or else the vessel con- taining the milk should be placed in a basin of cold water. It is best kept in earthenware, glass, porcelain, wooden or enamelled vessels, and any vessel or spoon which is to be used for milk should be first thoroughly scalded with boiling water. Milk should be kept apart from other articles of food, and especially remote from game, &c, hung before cooking, as it is easily tainted. It is sometimes as well to boil milk before using it, especially if there is any suspicion that it may convey infectious diseases, or that the cows may have eaten unwholesome food. I have known the milk of cows which have grazed on recently flooded meadows to cause inflammation of tbe stomach and diarrhoea, but these troubles did not occur when the milk was boiled. Boiled milk will keep sweet longer than unboiled milk, but is not so easily digestible, nor so nutritious, and to some people has a less agreeable flavour. Fifteen grains (half a level teaspoonful) of bicarbonate of soda or magnesia added to a quart of new milk renders it more easily digestible, and makes it keep better. Milk that has just begun to turn sour is sometimes more readily •digested than fresh milk by persons who do not suffer from