THE FEEDING OP INFANTS. 26 Beef-tea for Infants.—Remove all fat and gristle from half a pound of rump steak, and shred the meat up very fine; put it into a covered earthenware jar with a pint of cold water, and place the jar near the fire for two hours ; then put the jar into a saucepan containing boiling water, and let it simmer for three hours more, taking care that the beef-tea do not boil. Skim off any fat that there may be, and serve. This should never be allowed to boil. Pancreatised beef-tea can sometimes be digested better than ordinary beef-tea (see p. 30). The last meal at 11 p.m. can usually be dispensed with at about this age, if the child will sleep without it. Diet 4.— (From the twelfth to the eighteenth month.) 7.30 a.m.—A breakfast-cupful of bread and milk, with a little sugar. The bread should be broken up, and boiling water poured over it; it should be allowed to stand for five minutes, and then the water should be strained off, and the milk (heated nearly to boiling-point) poured over the bread. Instead of this, the yolk of a lightly boiled egg, with a little thin stale bread and butter, and a cupful of milk, may be given. 10.30 a.m.—A cupful of milk, with a little thin bread and butter; or the milk may be thickened with one of the infant's foods above mentioned. 2 p.m.—A cupful of beef-tea or of beef gravy, freed from fat, or of chicken or veal broth, and a little toasted stale bread. A tablespoonful of light milk pudding may be given also occa- sionally. Twice or three times a week a thoroughly boiled mealy potato, well mashed and passed through a sieve, and moistened with gravy from which all fat has been removed, may be substituted for this meal. 5.30 p.m.—A cupful of bread and milk or bread and butter, with a cupful of milk as at 7.30 a.m. Diet 5.—{For children one and a half to two years old.) 7.30 a.m.—Same as No. 4. 10.30 a.m.—Same as No. 4. 1.30 p.m.—A quarter of a pound of plain boiled whiting, haddock, or sole, with a slice of stale bread or of toasted bread ; or a cupful of beef-tea, with bread or toast, and a tablespoonful of milk pudding; or two ounces of roast mutton, minced finely, and a well-mashed potato (passed through a sieve); or, if the child be delicate, a thin slice of bacon well fried or toasted, with bread or toast. For drink, water. 5.30 p.m.—Same as at 7.30 a.m. The same diet may be continued up to three years of age. In the bronchitis of infants, or when the digestion is inter- fered with, a plain diet, consisting solely of beef-tea or of veal or