GAME AND WILD BIE.DS. 86 and put back on the fire for a minute at a time. When all four ounces of butter have been stirred in, add another spoonful of cold water, and if the sauce be still too thick add a third spoonful of cold water. The sauce should be quite smooth, and of the con- sistence of cream. Season with nutmeg and lemon-juice to taste. For fish or vegetables. Fish Scallop (5, 6).—Take half a pound of any cold fish (except mackerel or herring), remove the bones and skin, and cut up the fish into small dice ; moisten with an egg beaten up in a little milk, add a little salt and white pepper, and half a salt- spoonful of made mustard; put a layer of crumbs in scallop shells, lay in tbe fish, cover thickly with bread-crumbs, pour melted butter over the top, and brown them before a quick fire. Serve when quite hot. Bouillabaisse (for six persons) (5, 6).—Take three or four pounds of fish—whiting, sole, small haddock, red mullet, and a piece of conger; all these are to be cleaned, cut in slices, and their bones removed; two dozen of mussels to be added. Put into a stewpan two onions sliced, two tomatoes peeled, a carrot sliced; then in a coarse net bag the following :—two bay- leaves, two slices of lemon, half the zest of a Seville orange, two cloves, a little thyme, several sprigs of parsley, a clove of garlic, two red capsicums cut, and a little saffron. Add salt and pepper and a little pimento. Place the pieces of fish over these, pour in six tablespoonfuls of olive oil; add three pints of water with two or three glasses of white French wiue; cover, and let all boil well together for half an hour. The whiting, however, should only be put in a quarter of an hour before finishing. When done, take out and drain the fish carefully, and strain the soup through a fine sieve. Serve the whole in a soup tureen with slices of toasted bread apart; or place them in the tureen before filling. (Sir IT. Thompson.) XI. GAME AND WILD BIRDS. Many sorts of game and of birds are among the most whole- some and digestible of foods; and, though not suitable in acute disease, are valuable as a stepping-stone from the simpler to the more nourishing diets during convalescence, especially when the digestive powers are slow to regain their tone and strength. Venison, especially that of mountain deer, is one of the most digestible of meats, ranking in this respect second only to sweet- bread and lamb's feet, and above most birds. Of the different kinds of venison, that of the fallow-deer is the most easily digested, though of inferior flavour; doe-venison is better than buck-veni- son as regards wholesomeness. If the buck be over two years old,