DBJNKS. 62 speedy relief. Port is too generous a wine to be mixed with mineral waters, a combination wbicb would remove most of its injurious qualities. Port bas a similar effect on tbe digestion to sherry. Burgundy, provided that it be good, is nearly equal to port, but it requires great care in its treatment, and is not often found good. It should be at the temperature of the dining-room when drunk, not colder. It is an excellent remedy in quinsy, and after much loss of blood, but if drunk habitually, and in too large quantities, will produce gout. Claret is very seldom brought to table warm enough, and when not sufficiently warmed is a rough acid wine. It has the same qualities as Burgundy but is milder, and it has a similar action on the digestion to that of hock. It is most wholesome when drunk with effervescent alkaline waters. Claret is a good tonic, and with mineral waters is one of the best beverages for dyspeptics. There is an excellent Spanish red wine, which is sold as Spanish claret, which has all the good properties of good claret, and is even more wholesome, besides being only one-fourth of the price. Red. German Wines are of the same class as claret, but generally lighter and less alcoholic. Hungarian Wines are much bepraised nowadays. They resemble the Rhine wines, but contain more alcohol, and have usually not so fine a flavour. In Hungary they are mostly drunk diluted with sparkling mineral waters. Sparkling Wines have a beneficial effect upon the digestion, and are very exhilarating, but if drunk habitually they cause acidity and gout. A glass of good champagne, repeated at intervals of an hour or less will often help a patient almost in collapse to tide over a crisis; it is especially useful for aged persons. Sparkling wines should be drunk with dinner not after dinner. Sparkling Moselle is more wholesome than champagne. Sweet Wines, e.g. Tokay, Malaga, Malmsey, Port, Lacryma Christi, &c, should only be taken in liqueur glasses with a plain biscuit when the stomach is not full, and are good as a stop-gap between meals. On the whole perhaps a good port or Moselle is the safest wine to drink regularly, next to that a good light claret, and next to that natural sherry. Wine should only be drunk once in the day, and that towards the end of the principal meat meal, not at the beginning of a meal. Two wineglassfuls are as much as should be taken with the meal. When wine causes heartburn, it should be taken with sparkling alkaline water, and if it still causes heartburn it should be discontinued, for a time at any rate.