82 FISH. hours; then wipe it dry, place pieces of butter on it, and put it on a drainer in a slow oven, and bake for twenty to thirty-five minutes, according to the size of the fish. Serve with slices of lemon. Boiled Turbot (4, 5, 6).—Soak the fish in salt and water for three hours, then wash it in two or three waters ; dry it and rub with lemon-juice and a little salt. Put it into the turbot-kettle with half water and half milk, enough in all to cover the fish; add six ounces of salt for each gallon of water, and a little lemon- peel. Place the kettle over a brisk fire until on the point of boiling; skim, and let it simmer gently on the side of the fire till the meat separates easily from the bone. Drain it carefully, and serve with slices of lemon. Croquettes de Turbot (5, 6).—Remove the bone from cold boiled turbot, and mince the flesh. Break up an egg and season it with pepper, salt, and oil. Make up small balls of the turbot, dip them in the egg, and roll them in bread-crumbs. Fry them in hot butter to a fine golden colour. Dry and serve with fried parsley. Sole or Plaice may be cooked in croquettes. Brill (4, 5, 6).—Cooked like turbot. Turbot Salad (6).—Take some fresh cold turbot, cut it into squares of about one inch by an inch and a quarter, and season them with pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar. Make in a mould a border of clear jelly, fill the border with the pieces of turbot, placing a layer at a time, and pouring melted jelly over it, and letting each layer cool before the next is put in. Garnish with lettuces cut in half lengthwise. The jelly may be made of calf's feet. Sole Salad.—Fillets of sole may be treated as above. Bed Mullet in Paper (4, 5, 6).—Wash the mullet, removing the scales and gills, but do not clean the inside. Dry it, and let it soak for an hour in a little oil with a pinch of salt and three peppercorns. Butter a sheet of paper large enough to contain the mullet, and wrap the fish carefully in the paper, folding the ends tightly. Broil on a gridiron for twenty-five minutes, turn- ing the fish over after twelve minutes, and changing the paper if burnt or torn in the cooking. Serve in the paper with a slice of lemon or with maiire d'hotel sauce (i. e. butter, chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and lemon-juice). Red Mullet Baked (4, 5, 6).—Dress the mullet as above. Fold in buttered paper and bake slowly for half to three-quarters of an hour. Mix the liquor that comes from the fish with a little butter and flour; add a glass of sherry, a little pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon. Boil all these for two minutes, and serve as sauce for the baked fish. Whitebait (4, 5, 6) should be kept in iced water till wanted