68 D KINKS. Cocoa is chocolate deprived of its oil and fatty matters. It is more digestible but less nourishing than chocolate, and not so delicate in flavour. It is as constipating as chocolate. Cocoa and tapioca make an excellent combination in diarrhoea. Cocoa is prepared by pouring a heaped-up tablespoonful of the powder into half a pint of cold water (or milk), stirring it in evenly, warming it slowly, and boiling for ten minutes over a slow fire, stirring diligently. Savory and Moore's peptonised cocoa and milk is a very nice preparation and very digestible, but does not keep well when opened. Van Houten's is the best cocoa with which I am acquainted. Cocoatina contains still less fat than the ordinary cocoas, and is therefore more digestible, but still less nourishing and of less flavour than other cocoas. Toast and Water (1, 2, 3, &c.).—Toast a thick slice of bread a deep brown, taking care not to let it burn. When the toast is cold pour over it a quart of boiling water. Let it stand for an hour, and then strain through muslin. A slice of lemon maybe added if preferred. Toast and water should not be kept more than twelve hours after it is made. . Apple Toast and Water (2, 3, 4, &c).—A piece of bread slowly toasted to a very dark brown (not burnt) is placed in boiling apple water. (Dr. Milner Fothergill.) Lemonade (1, 2, 3, &c.).—Rub a quarter of a pound of sugar on the rinds of four lemons till the sugar is quite yellow ; then squeeze over it the juice of the lemons (which should be cut lengthwise), and pour three pints of boiling water oyer the juice and sugar. Cover this till cold, and strain before using. Lemonade and Malt Extract (1, 2, 3, &c.).—Pare the rind of a lemon thinly, cut the lemon into slices, and put these into a jug. Pour over it a pint of hot water. Add malt-extract (or Meilin's Food) to taste. (Dr. Fothergill.) Imperial Drink (1, 2, 3, &c.).— Pare the rind of a lemon thinly, cut it into slices, and put these into a jug with a dessertspoonful of cream of tartar, and two tablespoonfuls of white sugar. Pour over them one quart of boiling water. Cover till cold, and StLrnie-Water (1, 2, 3, &c.).—Put two ounces of slaked lime into one gallon of pure (filtered or distilled) water. Let it stand for thirty-six hours in a stoppered bottle; then draw off with a siphon the clear fluid. Keep in stoppered bottles. Barley-Water (2, 3, 4, &c.).—Soak two ounces of pearl barley in cold water. Strain. Boil five minutes in fresh water, and strain again. Pour on the barley two quarts of boiling water,