127 TABLE OF RECIPES. And all the foregoing diets. Malt and Milk Puddings-Gruels-Jellies (bread, calf's foot chicken and calf's foot, claret, egg, farinaceous, lemon, sheep's foot, and tapioca)- Lainb's Feet-Lemon Cream-Malt Flour-Meat Peptone-Meat (soluble) Mixed Meat Tea-Mock Cream—Orangeade—Orange Cream—Panadas- Puddings (bread, cornflour, curd, ground malt and milk, hasty, pearl barley, rice)-Snow Cream-Soups (egg, meat and rice, milk with vermi- celli, toast)-Sweetbreads - Syllabub - Thin Mutton Broth - Tamil* Cream—Velvet Cream. And the foregoing diets. Diet No. 3. Alkaline Drink—Almond Drink—Angels on Horseback—Apricof Cream —Arrowroot and Black Currant Drink—Arrowroot Blanc-mange—Arrow- root Charlotte-Beef-juice with Toast-Beef-tea with Oatmeal-Con- somme of Fowl—Cow-heel-Eggs, Cream, and Extract of Beef-Eggs in the Nest—Game Sandwiches—Ginger Cream—Ground Rice Milk and Puddings—Haddock (boiled)—Indian Meal Gruel—Jellies (beef and calf's foot; beef, mutton, and calf's foot; beef, veal, and calf's foot j baked calf's foot, isinglass, orange, and shank)—Macaroni Soup—Meat Panada —Mutton-broth—Orgeat—Ox-tail Soup—Puddings (baked cornmeal, corn starch, and Indian corn)—Kaspberry Cream-Raw Meat—Raw Meat Pulp ' —Rhubarb-water—Rice Gruel—Rice Milk-Rice Soup—Sago—Sago Milk —Sago Soup—Sandwiches—Semolina Soup—Sheep's Feet—Soups (a la Monaco, h la reine, calf's tail, mock turtle, pearl-barley and cream, simple fish, tapioca, vermicelli)—Tamarind-water — Tapioca and Codliver— Tapioca Milk, and Soup—Trotters—Veal-broth—Whiting (boiled). And all the foregoing diets. Diet No. 3-4. Beef-palates—Bread Soup—Calf's Head—Caviare Sandwiches—Chicken (boiled and stewed)—Cod's-roe Sandwiches—Consomme—Egg and Cream Cheese—Eggs (baked and stirred)—Fish-roe Sandwiches—Flounders (boiled)—Grouse—Gudgeons (fried)—Haddock (baked)—Hungarian Beef- steak—Lamb Chops—Lamb's Tails—Larks (larded, salmis, en cotelettes, roast)—Meat-jellies—Moor-fowl—Oatmeal Flummery—Oysters on Toast- Oyster Soup — Partridge — Pheasant — Pigeon — Pilau — Porridge- Potted Meat Sandwiches—Pudding (hominy)—Quails—Red Mullet- Risotto a la Milanaise-Scotch broth—Sheep's Head and Tongue- Skate (boiled)-Smelts (fried)—Snipe (roasted)—Tripe-Trout (boiled)— Woodcock (roast).