31 SOUPS, BROTHS, AND BEEF-TEA. tablespoonful of Liquor Pancreaticus. Stir it all well together, and keep it warm in a covered jug for two hours, stirring and shaking it occasionally. Then boil up briskly for two or three minutes, strain, and season with salt, &c. (Sir W. Roberts.) Beef-tea (2-3, 3, 4, 5).— All beef-tea should be cooked with soft water, or with water which has become quite cold after having been boiled. All fat should be carefully skimmed off, and the meat finely shredded. Beef-tea, I. Shred one pound of beef very fine, and put it into a common earthenware teapot with a pint and a half of cold water, and a pinch of salt. Stand the pot on the hob, so that it may simmer for at least three hours, but not boil. (Br. Broaclbent.) Strain. Dry the solid residue left after straining, remove all the stringy parts, pound it in a mortar, and stir well up with the beef-tea. Flavour with fresh tomato, or a little mace, or a bay- leaf in the pot. II. Shred one pound of beef very fine, and put it into one pint of cold water. Stir it up, and let it stand for one hour in a Papin's digester, then put the digester containing the beef and water in a saucepan of water, and heat it for another hour over a slow fire, but do not allow the beef-tea to boil. Run through a coarse strainer, and treat the solid residue as directed in beef-tea No. I, and flavour according to directions there given. III. Mince finely one pound of beef steak, soak it in one third of a quart of cold water for twelve hours, then take out the meat and set this water aside. Put the meat into two thirds of a quart of cold water and simmer for two hours, filling up as the water evaporates. Strain, and add the boiling liquor to the cold liquor in which the meat was soaked. Treat the solid residue and flavour according to the directions in No. I. (Dr. King Chambers.) This will be made more nutritious by the addition of two tablespoonfuls of powdered biscuit, or of bread crumb toasted and pounded, which should be mixed with the beef-tea and boiled for five minutes under constant stirring. Equal quantities of milk and beef-tea are more nutritious and sometimes more easily digested than either singly. Soluble Meat (2-3, 3, 4, 5).— Mince up two pounds of lean meat, and put it into a china pan with a quart of water and half a teaspoonful of strong hydrochloric acid. The pan is put into a Papin's kettle, perfectly sealed, and subjected to maceration for about fifteen hours. The contents are then crushed in a mortar until they constitute an emulsion, and put back into the kettle agam for about fifteen hours. The substance thus obtained must be then completely neutralised with bicarbonate of soda and evaporated afterwards to the consistency of pap. When thus prepared, this soluble meat is generally accepted by patients