2 CHOICE OP FOOD. Some general remarks on food and diet are a necessary intro- duction. These have been arranged under the following heads: 1. Choice of food. 2. Cooking and serving. 3. Eating and drinking. 4. General habits of life. 1. Choice of Food.—Naturally every person should choose those foods which he can digest without discomfort; on the other hand, however, it is a mistake to strike off any article altogether from the dietary, because it has once disagreed. Such articles should either be discontinued for a time, or eaten in less quantity, or taken at a different time of day. Temporary abstinence from any particular dish will often enable a man to return to it with impunity. Some people can eat but little vegetable, farinaceous food, &c, but they should not therefore omit such foods alto- gether from their diet. Some, again, can only digest meat at breakfast, or vegetables at mid-day, and these people should suit their meals to their idiosyncrasies. Too much care in the choice of food is injurious as well as too little. The amount of food necessary during the day varies accord- ing to the season of the year, and the requirements of the individual. About half a pound of cooked meat, with about a pound of bread and other cereals, three quarters of a pound of vegetables and fruit, two ounces each of butter and sugar, and from two to three pints of water or other fluid form a fair daily average. In summer rather less meat and more vegetables and fruit are consumed, and in winter the quantity of meat is in- creased at the expense of the vegetables. For those engaged in severe bodily labour, fat or butter is the best food, a given quantity of beef fat producing twice as much force as the same quantity of cheese or oatmeal, four times as much as eggs or bread, six times as much as lean beef, and seven times as much as potatoes. Brain-workers require less fat, and more bread, vegetables, and lean meat, than those who work with their hands. Fish is better than meat for sedentary persons, such as brain-workers and women. Men eat more meat and less bread than women, while women drink more tea and milk and less alcohol than men. Old people require less meat and more farinaceous and vegetable food than the young. It is most important that the diet should be varied, as mono- tony impairs the appetite and injures the digestion. This rule holds good in sickness as well as in health, and, indeed, frequent change is even more necessary to the sick than to the healthy, as in sickness the appetite requires to be tempted by variety to induce the patient to eat. In the choice of food, regard must be had to the individual