DRINKS. 58 Flat waters are nauseous through their tastelessness, and should be filtered through charcoal. Cold water excites appetite and helps digestion. A glass of cold water the last thing at night, or the first thing in the morn- ing, washes out the stomach and strengthens it. Cold water is as necessary outside as inside the body. Iced water, if used too frequently, may cause inflammation of the digestive tract. Water may be cooled, where no ice is to be had, by keeping it in a porous bottle, which should be hung in a draught, and should have water dropping constantly on its outer side. Large draughts of cold water, when one is overheated, are dangerous. "Warm water is an excellent emetic but not a wholesome beverage. Hot water is stimulating and sudorific, and an excellent aid to diges- tion, especially in dyspepsia with a tendency to congestion, when about a quarter of a pint of hot water should be taken at the end of each meal. Hard water tends to dry up the skin and mucous membranes, and thereby to impair digestion. It may be the cause of goitre (?), gout, gravel, and stone. The hardness may be removed by boiling the water, or by adding to it bicarbonate of soda (as much as will lie on a threepenny bit to each quart of water). All water that is intended for drinking should be filtered. It is very essential that the filter should be thoroughly cleaned every six weeks or two months, especially when the water con- tains much solid matter. Filters are useless, or worse than use- less, if not kept perfectly clean. "Water as to the perfect purity of which any suspicion is entertained, should be boiled first, and filtered afterwards. A simple test for water is evaporating a teaspoonful or so in a watch-glass over a spirit-lamp; if there be any brownish deposit left on the glass after the water has evaporated, the water is probably bad, and should be further tried by Nessler's test, which can be obtained from any chemist. Impure water may cause diarrhcea, dysentery, dyspepsia, or ^Not more than a tumblerful of water should be drunk at a time. A slice of lemon in a tumblerful of cold water makes it more refreshing and more wholesome. Non-Alcoholic Drinks. Barley-water and toast and water are better than plain water for relieving thirst in fever, especially if the drinking water be hard. , Raspberry vinegar, lemonade, and orangeade, are not only