FARINACEOUS FOOD. 43 part of the milk of almonds, while an ounce and a half of sugar is mixed with the other part of the almond milk, as in the lemon blanc-mange, which recipe is followed in the subsequent pre- paid tion. Chocolate Blanc-mange (3,4, 5, 6).—Made in the same way as coffee blanc-mange, but with an ounce and a half of chocolate instead of half an ounce of coffee. Strawberry Blanc-mange (3, 4, 5. 6).—Make a blanc-mange according to recipe (p. 42) but with water instead of milk. Squeeze ripe strawberries (without stalks) in a napkin, until a quarter of a pint of juice has passed through, and mix this with the isinglass and sugar after they have been melted in a quarter of a pint of water (instead of half a pint of milk). Pass through a napkin and set as before. Raspberry and Currant Blanc-mange (3, 4, 5, 6). Made in the same way as strawberry blanc-mange, but with a handful of red or white currants mixed with the raspberries. Apple Charlotte (5, 6).—Peel, and take out the core of one pound and a half of apples, and cut them into thin slices; put them into a frying-pan containing an ounce and a half of butter and three quarters of an ounce of sugar. Cook for fifteen minutes, shaking frequently. Brown in butter a dozen slices of crumb of bread about two thirds of an inch thick, two inches long, and one inch wide. Cover each slice with apricot marma- lade, and place them edgeways round a dish. Fill up the centre with the fried apples, and over this a layer of apricot marmalade. Bake for five minutes and serve hot. {Gouffe.) VII. FARINACEOUS FOOD (STARCH FOODS). Of this class the most important item is Bread. Bread taken to excess may cause flatulence, constipation, or diarrhoea, heart- burn (acidity), irritation of the skin, and disorder of the circula- tion. If too new, bread may cause distension and pain in the stomach; if too stale, it may become unwholesome through the formation of products of decomposition, and through the in- creased development of acids affecting the digestion. Hot bread crumb is tough and pasty, and forms a mass in the stomach which is only digested slowly and with difficulty ; if it be heated again and eaten with much butter, it is slightly more digestible. Bread is most digestible when twenty-four hours old, as it has not had time then to become decomposed, and it is no longer so pasty as new bread. Crust is more digestible than bread crumb, as the extra heat to which it is exposed in baking partly digests some of the starch which it contains, and crust is also more