112 SVTLIKTS. 5 parts; cloves 5 parts; cinnamon 7 parts; black mustard 125 parts; white mustard 250 parts; sugar 250 parts. Put all these ingredients in an earthenware jar, and add enough wine-vinegar to form a thin paste. Set the jar uncovered in a warm place to ferment. , ., Tomato Sauce (4-5, 5, 6).—Out up choice tomatoes and boil them to a pulp in very little water; pass them through a hair- sieve to remove the shins and seeds; then slowly dry the pulp over a gentle fire. Make the dry pulp into tablets, and use a piece of the size of a walnut to each half pint of sauce. Boil it in stock and a little butter in an enamelled saucepan, and flavour with salt and pepper. Tomato Chutney (4-5, 5, 6).—Slice up a peck of green tomatoes as if slicing a cucumber, sprinkle them with salt, and let them lie all night. Slice twelve onions m the same way. Put into a stewpan a layer of tomatoes, then a layer of onions; sprinkle over some ground mustard, mustard-seed, pepper-corns, and brown sugar; repeat in the same order. Cover all over with vinegar, and boil for two hours. When cold put the pickle into bottles and keep in a cool place for three months before using. Quantities required:—Tomatoes one peck ; onions twelve; ground mustard one ounce; peppercorns one ounce; mustard seed one ounce; brown sugar one pound; vinegar two quarts. (Ine above is a most wholesome and delicate pickle.) XV. SWEETS. Sugar makes farinaceous food more palatable, and more digestible, and therefore more nourishing. Excess of sugar destroys the appetite and the teeth, and causes heartburn. Gouty diabetic, and corpulent persons should make very mode- rate use of sugar. Eau sucree is sometimes of use m irritation of the urinary organs. . . , ,, Honey is slightly laxative, and is useful for various irritable states of the mucous membrane of the mouth and throat. In the comb it is an excellent food for scrofulous, lymphatic chil- dren. Honey does not suit all digestions. Jams and Marmalades suit some people who cannot digest raw fruit. They are sometimes useful for their laxative effects when eaten at breakfast. They should only be eaten m moderate ql Quince and Pear Marmalades are astringent. Apricot, Lemon, and Orange Marmalades are refreshing and digestible, and the two latter being slightly bitter are gentle tonics to the stomach.