SOUPS, BKOTHS, AND BEEF-TEA. 29 gives to the stomach. If intended as a nourishment, the beef- tea, when cool enough to sip, should have added to it a teaspoonful •of maltine or malt-extract, which supplies those principles wanting in the beef-tea, and makes a most valuable food, being easy to swallow, highly nutritious, and very digestible; or some starch-food, such as baked flour, or biscuit-powder, or bread- crumbs, or well soaked or baked tapioca or sago, may be stirred up with the beef-tea while still boiling, and thus the nutritive value of the beef-tea is increased, though sometimes at the expense of the digestibility of the beef-tea. The foregoing remarks apply to all meat teas, whether made from butcher's meat or from tinned preparations (such as Liebig's Extract, Brand's Essence, or Valentine's Meat Juice), but those made from the meat itself are better than all these prepared meats, though more troublesome and tedious to make. The meat which is left in the pot after making beef-tea is con- sidered to contain all the really nourishing principles of meat, .and should be beaten up to a paste, or pounded in a mortar, or chopped up veiy fine, and mixed with the fluid beef-tea, or eaten by itself with a little salt or other flavouring, and is not only nourishing but digestible and nice. Garlic, onions, and parsley are generally Indigestible in soup. Pancreatin added to soup makes it more wholesome. Beef-tea and broths should not be kept hot, but heated as required. They should never be prepai'ed in the sick room. Beef-tea is best when made from rump steak, next after this 'from pieces of the buttock. The meat should always be finely .•shredded, but the juices from it carefully preserved. Meat soups are the most nourishing, and their nutritious pro- perties are increased if vegetables be boiled with the meat, and such soups are quite wholesome and digestible if the vegetables are well strained off before serving. Liver soup is more digestible if the cooked liver be pounded, and passed through a hair sieve. Soup made with brains is very good and nourishing, but being rather oily is not always digestible. Sweetbread soup is very easily digested, and highly nutritious. The sweetbread should be blanched, and either cut up in large pieces, or chopped fine and passed through a hair sieve, and •cooked in good meat stock. Of farinaceous soups, those with thickening of parched flour •or grated toast are useful in diarrhoea. Rice and pearl barley used in soups should be soaked for twelve to twenty-four hours before cooking. The stock should be strong, and it is improved by the addition of an old fowl, and of gravy and meat-extract, but does not require any vegetable seasoning except perhaps a little celery with salt. Tliese soups should be boiled for a long