76 FISH. Mackerel are oily fish, and often disagree. They are not suit- able for convalescents, nor for persons with delicate digestion; but they are nourishing. They are best grilled in oiled paper. Tunny is a coarse, oily fish, and difficult of digestion. It is dangerous if not perfectly fresh. Sprats are also oily, and difficult to digest. They are cooked like smelts. Whitebait suffers from the same disadvantage as the above. They should only be eaten in small quantities, and should not be reeking with fat, as they are too often served. Sea Perch are an excellent white fish, savoury, and easily digested, resembling haddock. Wolf Fish, Pollack, and Coal Pish are mentioned by Sir Henry Thompson as excellent fish, the first-named being appa- rently the best, the two latter being akin to the whiting. Conger Eel is a coarse, indigestible fish and a foul feeder, which is not usually served at any table, except in the shape of turtle-soup, for which it makes the best of stock. Turtle, though nourishing, is not very digestible.* Oysters are deservedly one of the most highly valued foods in early convalescence from disease. A few oysters will often tempt a feeble appetite and cause more solid food to be taken after- wards with relish. They are very easily digested if uncooked, but become indigestible if boiled or fried. When added to soups they should only be warmed through in the soup just before serving. If eaten raw, no condiments should be allowed with them, except a few drops of fresh lemon-juice. Of course they must be fresh, and only the small English natives should be pro- vided for invalids. Mussels are a wholesome and nourishing food, but dangerous, because, when fed in some waters, their flesh contains a kind of irritant poison. Many people cannot eat mussels of any sort without being troubled afterwards with nettle-rash. Crabs and Lobsters are not suitable food for invalids, though they are well enough for those who are able to digest them. Crabs are, perhaps, rather less indigestible than lobsters. Tinned lobsters should be avoided. Prawns and Shrimps, if partaken of in moderation, are whole- some food and excite appetite, but in large quantities they are irritating. Persons with delicate and sensitive digestions should avoid them. Crayfish are more digestible than crabs or lobsters, but are not to be recommended in early convalescence; and it is neces- sary to be careful that they have not fed on anything which may * I am indebted to Sir Henry Thompson's book on ' Food and Feed- ing ' for some of the foregoing remarks on fish.