8 ENEMATA AND PREDIGESTED POODS. Tripe (Chap. XIII). Calves' and sheeps' feet (Chap. XIII). Other sorts of fish except salmon, eels, herrings (Chap. X). Boiled chicken (Chap. XII). Roast chicken (Chap. XII). Mutton (Chap. XIII). Potatoes mashed and pressed through sieve. Lamb, veal (Chap. XIII). The more digestible vegetables. Hare (Chap. XI). Beef and any other food (Chap. XIII). Directions to Nurses. See that the room is well ventilated, but warm and free from draughts. Keep everything scrupulously clean. Let the patient have no dirty linen, spoons, plates, &c, in use. Prepare all food outside the sick-room. Do not leave any food in the room. See that warm foods are warm and cold things cold, and not lukewarm. Keep a cheerful countenance; do not chatter too much; do not worry; do not tell doleful stories. II. ENEMATA AND PREDIGESTED FOODS. Where the stomach is unable to digest, nourishment must be given, either as digested foods by the mouth, or as enemata by the bowel. Digested foods are prepared by the various pancreatic and peptic agents now in vogue (see pp. 9, 10). As soon as the stomach is able to digest ordinary foods, of which milk, meat teas, soups, and raw eggs are those first resorted to, enemata and predigested foods must be discontinued. Enemata (1).—When from any cause a patient is unable to swallow food or to retain it, or to digest it, when swallowed, nutrient enemata must be administered. These may be com- posed of beef-tea, milk, eggs, gruel, blood, or of soluble meat or meat peptones, &c. The enema should be about the consistency of cream. Not more than six tablespoonfuls should be admin- istered at a time, but this may be repeated every two, four, or six hours, as may be necessary. All enemata should be warmed to blood heat. The injection should be administered directly after a natural motion, or after the bowel has been washed out with a pint of water at blood heat. The food must be very slowly and cautiously thrown up into the bowel. Wine enemata may be given alternately with meat injections. If the propor- tion of fat to meat in a meat injection exceed one fourth, the enema will probably be rejected. Laudanum or solution of