MEAT. 105 The feet may also be cut up after being cooked as above and fried in butter. . Calf's Feet (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—May be treated in the same way. Lamb's Feet (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6). —Cooked in the same way. Sheep's Feet (Trotters) (3, 4, 5, 6).—Take two sheep's feet, take out the tuft of hair in the cleft of the foot; singe the feet, blanch them in boiling water for five minutes, then put them iu cold water. Take out the long bones ; dry the feet, and stew in a pint of milk mixed with a pint of water, and flavoured with grated lemon-peel and pepper and salt (a little celery may be added if desired). Stew for three hours and a half, or until quite tender, skimming and stirring frequently. Add two tablespoonf uls of cream just before serving, and stir well together. Pickled Sheep's Feet (4, 5, 6).—Cook as above; when done, put them for an hour in a pickle of a tablespoonful of vinegar, a dessertspoonful of oil, three saltspoonfuls of salt, and two of pepper, the whole well mixed together. Rub each foot with yolk of egg, sprinkle it with bread-crumbs, put them into a frying- pan containing hot butter, and fry for twenty minutes, turning them over several times. Drain them on a cloth, and dust them over with salt. Serve with fried parsley. Cow-heel (3, 4, 5, 6).—Cut up a cow-heel, bone and all, into pieces, and put these into a saucepan with two pints of milk. Boil slowly at the side of the fire for four hours, or until the meat comes off the bones; remove the bones; strain off the jelly through muslin; add a little castor sugar, and flavour with lemon-juice or sherry. Pour into a mould, and let it cool to a jelly. This may be eaten hot as broth, without sweetening or flavour- ing, and with a little salt and pepper. Pig's Feet (5, 6).—Dip two well-cleaned feet in yolk of egg or milk, and roll them in bread-crumbs, and bi'oil them over a gentle fire. Stewed Ox-tail (4, 5,6).—Divide the tail at the joints; blanch them for twenty minutes in boiling salt and water, then plunge them in cold water and let them soak for an hour ; drain, dry the pieces, and put them in a saucepan with five pints of stock, boil up, skim, and add an onion cut in rings, two cloves, two carrots in slices, two pinches of salt, and two of pepper. Let them simmer for three hours and a half, or longer if not quite tender. Strain through a colander, and put the pieces of tail and the slices of carrot separately in saucepans, and take off all the fat of the stock, and boil it down to one half; pour this over the carrots and ox-tail (in the two saucepans), warm up, add a table- spoonful of lemon-juice, and serve with the stock. Stewed Lamb's Tails (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—As above, or in equal