VEGETABLES. 119 form the chief avticleof diet, poorness of blood, scrofula, and rickets are common. Potatoes are more digestible when eaten with fat or oily matters, and are consequently more nourishing with these additions; thus they are a good food when eaten with milk, fat, or butter. As to the cooking of potatoes they are more whole- some roast than boiled, and should always be soaked in cold water for one and a half or two hours before they are cooked. If boiled they should be thoroughly cooked, then mashed with milk or butter, and then passed through a sieve or colander (a precaution to be especially observed by dyspeptic people), and all hard parts should be thrown away. Mealy potatoes are bebter for roasting or boiling or baking. "Waxy potatoes are not so wholesome, especially if old. If they are fried or roasted they should be crisp and not hard, tough, or leathery, and should not be served with too much grease about them. Unripe potatoes and those which have sprouted are pai-ticularly unwholesome, and the water in which they have been boiled is poisonous. Yams have the same qualities as potatoes. Sweet Potatoes are wholesome and nourishing. Cabbage is the next most common vegetable after potatoes, and is still more unwholesome than they are, as it produces much flatulence. It is, however, a valuable anti-scorbutic. Cabbage should be soft but crisp before cooking, and should not ^e soaked in water. It should be boiled in two or three waters. After it has been cooked it should be thoroughly drained, as the cabbage-water is very unwholesome. A few drops of vinegar, and a little pepper make cabbage easier of digestion. Sauer-kraut is the most wholesome way of eating cabbage. It should not be too much salted in pickling, nor be allowed to ferment; it must be thoroughly boiled for twenty-four hours or more, and to a dish of sauer-kraut three tablespoonfuls of salad oil should be added before boiling, and a good wineglassf ul of new wine when nearly cooked, and, as soon as it becomes soft, some fresh butter. Sauer-kraut helps the digestion of roast meat and of roast game, especially if the stomach be sluggish, but it should be avoided in spasm of the stomach (cramps). The addition of potatoes or peas improves the flavour, but makes it less digestible. Red sauer-kraut is very indigestible. Cauliflower and Broeoli are digestible when well cooked, but cause flatulence if the cook be careless in their preparation. They are especially useful when the stomach is overloaded with mucus. They should be blanched for five minutes in boiling water, and then put into cold water befoi'e being boiled; and they are to be served with white sauce. Only the " flower" is to be eaten, not the leaves nor the stalk. Leguminous Vegetables, such as peas and beans, are a very