JELLIES. 42 together until they simmer. Beat up the yolks of four eggs with the juice of the lemon, and pour the isinglass and sugar over them. Strain through muslin into a mould. Lemon Jelly (2-3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil an ounce of isinglass and half a pound of loaf sugar in a pint of water for twenty minutes; add the strained juice and rind of two lemons, and boil up again; skim well. Add wine if desired, and strain into a mould that has been wetted. (Refreshing, not nourishing.) Orange Jelly (3, 4, 5, 6).—Peel twelve oranges very thin, and squeeze the juice over the rind, but do not leave it too long ; if the oranges be very sweet, add the juice of a Seville orange or of a lemon. Dissolve two ounces of isinglass in as small a quantity of water as possible; melt half a pound of loaf-sugar, and when the syrup and isinglass are cold, mix them with the juice, and strain them into the mould. Less sugar will be required if the oranges are sweet. (Refreshing, not nourishing.) Jauniange (3, 4, 5, 6.)—Dissolve an ounce of isinglass in half a pint of water, beat the yolks of two eggs to a froth, and grate the peel of two lemons; mix all together with a little sugar in half a pint of sweet wine. Boil over a slow fire, stirring all the time to prevent it from burning. (Nourishing.) Blanc-mange (3,4, 5,6).—Peel six ounces of swedt almonds and ten bitter almonds; pound them well in a mortar, adding three quarters of a pint of milk, a spoonful at a time ; squeeze through a napkin. Melt half an ounce of isinglass, and three ounces of sugar, in half a pint of water over the fire, stirring well; when the mixture is melted, pass it through a napkin again, and when it is cold, add the milk of almonds, and a teaspoonf ul of orange-flower water; mix thoroughly. Freeze in a mould for two hours. Lemon Blanc-mange (3, 4, 5, 6).—Grate the rind of a lemon on one and a half ounces of loaf sugar, until the sugar is coloured by the juice of the lemon-peel; strain three quarters of a pint of milk of almonds through a napkin, and divide it into two equal parts; with one of these parts mix the sugar aud lemon-peel juice, and with the other part an ounce and a half of loaf sugar. When the sugar is melted, strain the two blanc- manges separately, and add to each a quarter of an ounce of isinglass dissolved in hot water. Put the two blancmanges into one mould in layers half an inch deep, and do not add a second layer until the first is set. Orange Blanc-mange (3, 4, 5, 6).—Made in the same way as lemon blanc-mange, but with sugar rubbed over orange-peel instead of lemon-peel. Coffee Blanc-mange (3, 4, 5, 6) is prepared by mixing au ounce and a half of sugar, with a strong infusion made from half an ounce of coffee (without the grounds), and mixing it with one