Ill CONDIMENTS, SPICES, ETC. XIV. CONDIMENTS, SPICES, ETC. These are generally to be avoided by all persons who _ are not in perfect health, though sometimes moderate quantities are advantageous to the digestion. Spices should not be mixed with a dish before cooking, as they lose their flavour, but retain their irritating properties ; they should be added in small quantities when the cooking is nearly finished. Mustard and Pepper help a sluggish digestion to assimilate fat and gelatinous meats and fish. They are both useful as a remedy and preventive of flatulence. Black pepper is whole- somer than white, and Nepaul than Cayenne. Salt is favorable to the digestion of solid food, making it savoury and wholesome. It is better, however, to take too little than too much, as the excessive use of salt may cause chronic catarrh of the stomach, and irritation of the skin. Salt is very necessary with farinaceous food. Salt should be omitted alto- gether in beef-tea, &c, when the digestion is very feeble. Vinegar furthers the digestion of albumen, and is therefore good with meat, and eggs—it is also useful in helping to dissolve green watery vegetables. It should not be used in cooking, but added afterwards. Too much vinegar is very astringent, causes indigestion, and thus diminishes fat. Stale vinegar is liable to contain unwholesome organisms. Lemon-juice is more wholesome than vinegar, and more delicate in flavour. Oil is emollient and relaxing, and wholesome if taken in moderation; it is a more wholesome vehicle in cooking than lard. Cloves, Cinnamon, All-Spice, &c, may sei-ve to rouse a flagging appetite, but are too stimulating for invalids. Old people and those with sluggish digestion may be the better for a moderate use of such spices. Capers are indigestible. Nasturtium seeds are not a bad substitute for them. G-inger is a good stomachic tonic in small quantities; too much is irritating to the stomach. Sauces are generally too hot and spiced and irritating, but a few drops of sauce (especially Worcestershire Sauce) serve to stimulate the appetite and digestion, and to prevent flatulence. Brown flour sauoes are better than white. Tomato sauce is a good relish, and wholesome in small quantities. Pickles have the same advantages and disadvantages as vinegar. German Mustard.—Crush and mix together coriander seeds