16 MILK AND ITS PREPARATIONS. Syllabub is not to be taken in milk diets, but a small quantity of it is suitable for convalescents. Whipped Cream and Whipped Syllabubs have the same qualities as syllabub. Creams (3, 4, 5, 6), of which a great variety are given in the cookery-books, are not to be used in milk diets, though they are, when taken in moderation, a wholesome enough food, provided that there be no acidity of stomach nor biliousness. Iced creams (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6) are still more wholesome, and very refreshing for fever patients; they shoirld not be taken alone, but after some warm food. Ices after a heavy dinner are beneficial to the di- gestion ; they should not be eaten by old people, nor by those with weak, worn-out stomachs. Of creams, lemon cr-eam, ginger cream, raspberry cream, apricot cream, creme ordinaire, chocolate cream, and coffee cream are the most wholesome. Plain Milk Puddings (2, 3, 4, 5, 6), made by heating a little isinglass with milk in a cup placed in a saucepan of boiling water, and, after the isinglass is thoroughly melted, allowing the milk to cool in the cup until it forms a kind of milk jelly, are exceedingly wholesome, and form a very pleasant variety in milk diet. They should be served quite cold with a little pow- dered white sugar, if allowable. Butter is one of the most wholesome forms of fat, but it should be fresh and not salted, though a little table-salt eaten with fresh butter often helps the digestion. Butter should be well rubbed into the bread with which it is eateu, not dabbed on in lumps. Butter may be kept fresh for a few days if it be well squeezed, and dried, then wrapped in a damp cloth and placed in cold water. The water should be changed twice a day. Tor invalids, and especially for dyspeptics, butter should be substituted for fat and lard in all cooking operations. Butter melted and mixed with black coffee is a convenient domestic remedy against constipation, but should not be adopted too often. It should be taken in the morning fasting. Buttermilk is a wholesome and refreshing drink for those who like it, and contains some of the nutritive ingredients of milk. It has a relaxing effect upon the bowels, and should be avoided by persons liable to diarrhcea. Curds—Refreshing and laxative, not very nourishing, and apt to disagree if taken in sufficient bulk to serve as a food. Whey.—Sweet whey is obtained by treating milk with rennet, of which about a square inch is added to a pint of milk; the milk is then slowly warmed to not more than J 00° F. It should then be allowed to stand for half an hour in a warm place, and afterwards the whey is drawn off and filtered through muslin; the clearer the whey is, the more easy is it to digest. (A tea-