34 SOUPS, BROTHS, AND BEEF-TEA Beef, Mutton, and Veal Broth (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Put one pound of lean beef and half a pound of scrag of veal, with half a pound of scrag of mutton and five peppercorns, into a tin sauce- pan with five pints of water; simmer to three pints, and clear from the fat when cold. After skimming off the fat as clean as possible, lay a piece of clean white blotting-paper on the broth to soak up any remaining particles. Mixed Meat Tea (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Take one pound each of fresh lean beef, mutton, and veal. Remove all fat, skin, sinew, and bone. Cut the meat up into small pieces, and put it into a stewpan with four pints of water, and a saltspoonful of salt. Simmer gently for four hours, skimming often, then strain. Twenty minutes before serving, moisten a teaspoonful of biscuit- powder, lentil flour, or corn flour, with a wineglassful of cold water, and stir this into half a pint of the broth; boil slowly for twenty minutes. Meat and Bice Soup (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Take of mutton, veal, or beef, one and a half pounds, cold water one quart, a little salt, and two ounces of rice. Simmer for four hours, boil for a few minutes, strain, and serve. {Dr. Broadbent.) Mixed Meat Soup (2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Take one pound of mutton, one pound of veal, half a chicken, with the bones well broken, one calf's foot, and two quarts of water. Stew slowly down to one quart, and skim off all the fat. To be flavoured with a little pepper and salt, and taken cold as a jelly, or as a warm broth. The chicken can be omitted if desired. {Dr. Broadbent.) Beef-tea with Oatmeal (3, 4, 5, 6).—Mix thoroughly two table- spoonfuls of oatmeal with three of cold water to a smooth paste; then add a pint of strong boiling beef-tea. Boil for five minutes, stirring well to prevent the oatmeal from burning; strain through a hair sieve. {Dr. Broadbent.) Extract of Beef (2-3, 3, 4, 5).—Mince one pound of rump- steak, and mix it with one pint of cold water. Place it m a pot at the side of the fire to heat very slowly. It may stand two to three hours before it is allowed to simmer, and then let it boil gently for fifteen minutes; skim and serve. The addition of a fmall teaspoonful of cream to a teacupful of this beef-tea renders it richer and more nourishing. A little burnt flour, biscuit powder, or arrowroot have the same effect. {Dr. Broad- iC£w Meat Pulp (3, 4, 5, 6).—Rub the pounded meat through a sieve, and make into sandwiches, with some flavouring, such as cod-roe (or a very little anchovy paste). Or (3 4 5 6)—Pound in a marble mortar, raw meat, Zbu parts; blanched sweet almonds, 75 parts; bitter almonds, 5 Darts; sugar, 80 parts. Or (3, 4, 5)—Raw meat, grated, 100 parts; sugar, 40 parts,