109 TpIIips mav be made with poultry, game, fish, &c. remove the short bones, and dust the cutlets with salt and peppei W half an ounce of batter in a small frying-pan and iiy the cutletsforTwe ve mfnutes, turning them at the end of six minutes. When cooked set the cutlets aside, and make the.following sauce : "Rrown a Quarter of an ounce of flour, and add a wmeglassful boil and strain the sauce; clean the frying-pan, and dSetucTfn it to half its bulk; cut a sheet ofwhite, gjpej to a suitable size, butter it, and lay on half of it a thin slice 01 bUn on which put a dessertspoonful of the sauce then a cutlet, theTanotlTer spoonful of sauce,'then another thin slice of bacon; fold the paper carefully round the cutlet and bacon. Fry on the ^dii on^ght minutes on one side and seven minutes on the other. the sauce is an improvement. BriioneaTS 5,6).-Cut thin fillets of veal mutton, or turkey ; ate*Ternin layers between slices of ham, and seasoned with oil mushroTms and a dash of garlic, if allowable) and parsley all chopped up and mixed with the oil; add salt and pepper and simmei by a slow fire. When they are cooked take out the SL one by one, and set them aside ; then take off the fat of U sance and thicks with baked flour, pour the sauce over the hresolles and warm all up without letting it boil. OalPB Brain Boiled (5, 6).-Take off the thin membrane on the brain, and let it drain for an hour; put it into a saucepan withtwo pints and a half of water and half a wmeglassful of vihegai ; boil for half an hour, drain, and serve with browned ^n6^. 6).-Having taken off the outside skin and drained the brain, fry it in butter with pepper and salt. SATSTDWICHES (3, 4, 5, 6).-The bread should be at least twenty-four hours old, but not too dry, and the butter should be well rubbed into the bread, and not spread too thickly The slices of bread should be not less than one-eighth of an inch, nor more than one-fourth of an inch thick. The contents of the sandwich should be evenly distributed over the bread and when finished the sandwiches should be cut up into pieces about an inch long bv three-quarters of an inch broad. . Anchovy Sandwiches (4, 5, 6).-The anchovies should be boned and thoroughly soaked, first in water afterwards in milk. Caviare Sandwiches (3-4, 4, 5, 6).-The caviare must be fresh and evenly spread, and a few drops of lemon-juice squeezed OVChicken Sandwiches (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).-Thin slices from the breast of a chicken, covered with a very thin slice of ham.