64 DRINKS. Whiskey is the most popular drink, and, in consequence of its popularity, the most unwholesome, the demand for it being so great that the distillers sell immature spirit, which is full of fusel oil. Whiskey which is not sufficiently aged has a marked and injurious effect on the kidneys and bladder. It sometimes produces biliousness. There is no difference between Irish and Scotch whiskey in dietetic value. Gin if old is a wholesome spirit, but in excess it injures both the liver and the kidneys. It is a useful diuretic, but is depres- sing in its effects. Unsweetened gin is the best. Rum.—Good old rum is a wholesome spirit, but, like other spirits, it may produce biliousness. Rum and milk before rising in the morning is an excellent drink in debility from phthisis and other wasting diseases, but is now too much neglected. Rum that has been heated and allowed to cool is more wholesome than in its ordinary state, part of its alcohol being driven off by the heat. Cider if not too new is a wholesome drink, provided that it be well made. It contains only a small proportion of alcohol, and may be used as a cooling drink in feverishness and in scurvy. New cider is difficult of digestion and sometimes purgative. It is a popular remedy in Germany for " hot coppers." Liqueurs are noxious except in very small quantities after dinner, and even then most persons of delicate digestion should avoid them. They are generally too sweet. Some, such as Kirschwasser, Noyeau and Persicot, contain a good deal of prussic acid, and may be dangerous except in small doses. Kirsch- wasser (and cherry brandy), Maraschino, and Noyeau, are perhaps the least objectionable. Cups are wholesome drinks if they do not contain too much spirit. The flavour of Curacoa may be obtained without its poison, by substituting for it the peel of a Tangerine orange rubbed over with a lump of sugar. Borage and cucumber-rind are not injurious. (Dr. King Chambers.) Tea, Coffee, Chocolate, and Cocoa. Tea, the most fashionable beverage of modern times, is a poor and unwholesome substitute for milk and beer. Although it is now frequently recommended by physicians as a stimulant in place of alcohol, it may in some cases be more injurious than brandy, especially as people generally suppose that they can do themselves no harm by it, however much they may drink. Tea is more harmful than either coffee or chocolate, as containing more tannin, a principle which tends to produce dyspepsia. The uses of tea are:—To flavour hot water, which is often a beneficial drink ; to soothe the nerves when they have been over- wrought by hunger, fatigue, cold, or mental excitement—in such