SOUPS, BROTHS, AND BEEF-TEA. 30 time, and passed through a sieve before being dished up. Sago and tapioca soup should be treated in the same way as rice and barley soup. Soup thickened with grated toast and the yolks of eggs is digestible; the yolks should be beaten up with water, and the hot soup poured over them. A puree of green peas is not only delicious, but easy of digestion if well made ; neither remark holds good of puree of dried peas or dried haricots. Thin vegetable soups are wholesome and palatable; thick vege- table soups are nutritious as well as nice and digestible. Egg soups, if the eggs are beaten up and added when the soup is almost cooked, are very good, but if the eggs have time to set in cooking they become unwholesome. Game soups are wholesome, especially leveret soup. Old game and old poultry make very good soups, but water-fowl must not be used for this purpose. Game purees sometimes agree when broth made from white meats cannot be taken. Fish makes wholesome, nutritious, and palatable soup; and the trimmings of fish improve soups made from other materials. Oysters should not be cooked in soups, but may be added to hot soup. Turtle and mock turtle soups are very highly nutritious, and, if well made and partaken of moderately, are not unwholesome. They are generally too highly spiced. For milk soups, which are very nourishing, the milk should not be skimmed; they should be seasoned only with salt and a little sugar, and chocolate, rice, toast or groats may be added to them, but potatoes and flour may not. "Wine soups generally contain little or no alcohol, as this is driven off by the heat, unless the wine is only added after the soup is cooked. All soups should be carefully and completely freed from every trace of fat. They should not be strained through too fine a sieve as this keeps back the particles of meat, which are the most nutritious part of the soup. For soup the meat should be placed in cold water and gradually heated for a long time (cf. chapter on cooking, s.v. Boiling). Panereatised Soups (1, 2, 3, &c).—Use pancreatised water gruel instead of water to extract the soluble matters from meat and other materials, or, add an equal quantity of stock to pan- creatised gruel or milk gruel. (Sir W. Roberts.) Pancreatised Beef-tea (1-2,2,3, &c.).—Mix one pound of finely shredded beef with a pint of water and a pinch of bicarbonate of soda. Let it simmer for an hour and a half in a covered sauce- pan.' Then pour off the fluid into a covered jug, beat up the undissolved beef into a pulp, and add this to the fluid. Let it all cool until it is possible to sip it (140° Fahr.), and then add a