FISH. 7$ convalescence, when the stomach is capahle of digesting this kind of intermediate food between " slops" and meat. It forms also a most suitable food for the aged, and for sedentary persons. Fish is more digestible than meat, starch foods, or leguminous vegetables, but less nutritious. Some kinds of fish are more nutritious than others; mackerel produces more force than an equal quantity of lean beef, and herring and salmon are superior to mackerel in this respect, whilst whiting contains only half as. much force-producing material as lean beef. _ Tor persons just recovering from acute illness, and for dys- peptics, steamed or boiled fish is more suitable than fried fish, and such persons should take no sauce with their fish, except a few drops of fresh lemon-juice, or, in more favorable cases, a little Worcester sauce; a little chicken broth poured over the fish is a good and wholesome substitute for melted butter or other made sauces. In frying fish for convalescents, the butter or fat must be boiling hot in the pan before ,the fish is put into it; only the inner flesh should be eaten, and the hard, outside skin rejected. Sea fish is more wholesome, more nourishing, and of better flavour than fresh-water fish. Some sorts of fish contain much fat and oily matter, and are proportionally harder to digest. The unwholesomeness of salmon is owing to the great quantity of fat in its flesh; sprats, herrings, pilchards, shad, tunny, eel,, and mackerel are also oily fish, and should be avoided by persons with delicate digestions, and the red mullet (unfortunately) has the same property, though in a less degree. Cod, ling, and hake, and fresh haddock are often tough, and consequently indigestible, unless great care is taken in cooking them. Soles, whitings, and smelts are the most digestible and most delicately flavoured of all fish. The following are briefly the characteiistics of the various- sorts of fish, and the best ways of dressing them for invalids : Soles—delicate of flavour, easy of digestion, and nourishing— should be boiled or fried. The fillets are best for invalids, and may be seiwed plainly boiled or fried, or fried au gratin, or aux fines herbes, or a la Orly, in turban, or dressed with white wine, or in court-bouillon. Whiting are light and digestible. They are nicer fried than boiled. They are dressed in the same ways as soles. Smelts are tender, and easily digested if taken in moderation. They are generally served fried, or au gratin, or in court-bouillon. Flounders and Dabs are soft, delicate, and easy of digestion, but watery. They are best in May and June, and are either boiled, or fried au gratin, or gi-illed. Haddock, when fresh, is juicy and wholesome and easy of digestion.