23 THE FEEDING OF INFANTS. every two hours; after six weeks the interval may be increased to three hours or more; but the baby must always be fed at regular intervals. It is a very great mistake to suppose that a child is always hungry when it cries; its crying is often from discomfort after over-feeding, and a further supply of milk will in such case only increase the trouble. If an infant shows no sign of hunger the meal should be deferred until appetite returns. A baby ought to be trained to do without food for six hours or more during the night, at any rate after the first six weeks. If the mother is incapable of suckling her infant, and unable to provide a nurse, the child must be brought up by hand. For this purpose two or three feeding-bottles will be required; and of all the different varieties of feeding-bottles, the old-fashioned pap-boat bottle is the best as being the simplest; but nurses generally object to this kind of feeding apparatus, because it has to be held while the child takes its food; but one of the great advantages of this shape of bottle is that the child is unable to suck faster than the food is given to it, and thei'efore cannot fill its stomach too quickly. A second advantage of this way of feeding is that the child does not suck at the bottle after it is empty, and thereby dilate its stomach with wind. If the nurse is allowed to have her own way, and use bottles with india-rubber tubes, three of these should be provided, and used alternately. As soon as the bottle is emptied, it and the tube should be well washed out, and then put to soak in clean water containing a pinch of soda and a pinch of borax. For a new-born infant each meal should consist of two table- spoonfuls of fresh cow's milk, with two tablespoonfuls of lime- water, and two of plain filtered water, sweetened with a tea- spoonful of white sugar. The bottle containing this mixture should be put to stand in hot water until it is of a temperature of 95° Fahr., and used at this temperature. A teaspoonful of cream may be added if the milk is poor in cream. If the baby is sick after taking this mixture, more lime-water and less plain water should be used, and it may be necessary to use four, five, or six tablespoonfuls of lime-water to two tablespoonfuls of milk. The proportion of milk to lime-water may be gradually increased after the first three weeks, as the child is able to digest it, but if the child brings up curdled milk, an increased quantity of lime- water must be given for a few days until the digestive organs have recovered their tone. Infants fed on milk and barley-water often grow fatter than on milk and lime-water, and mothers and grandmothers love to see babies fat; but as a rule the lime-water fed child is firmer of flesh and stronger than one fed on barley-water. In any case, barley-water should not be given until the child is three months old.