FISH. 83 Drain them, shake them in a dry cloth with flour, and shake off the superfluous flour. Put them, a few at a time, m a wire basket, and hang the basket in boiling butter until they are white and crisp then take them out and lay them on white blotting-paper before the Are. Sprinkle them with salt, and serve with lemon and brown bread and butter. Boiled Trout (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Cleanse and wash a trout; put it into boiling water, with an ounce of salt to each gallon of water, boil up, skim, and then simmer gently for twelve to fifteen minutes, carefully skimming all the time. Serve with slices of lei&riiled Trout a, la Hussarde (4, 5, 6).—Clean the trout, take out the intestines and gills, wash it, dry it, and put butter seasoned with pepper, salt, chopped parsley and thyme into the inside of the fish; rub the outside with lemon-juice and salt, grill, and serve with slices of lemon, Court-bouillon.—Take a pint of water and a pint of vinegar and a liqueur-glassful of brandy; mix, add a carrot, two shalots, two sprigs of parsley, a little thyme, a bay-leaf, a quarter of an ounce of salt, and rather less pepper. Simmer until it is reduced to two-thirds; pass through a colander. The court-bouillon may be kept some time if it is boiled up with a wineglassful of water every four days. Trout in Court-bouillon (4, 5, 6).—Clean and wash a trout, and let it simmer in court-bouillon for half an hour or more according to size. When done, take a part of the court-bouillon in which it was cooked, strain it, thicken it with butter and baked flour, stir this sauce over the fire for five minutes and serve with the fish. In boiling take care that there is enough court-bouillon to cover the fish. Stewed Trout (4, 5, 6). Baked Trout in buttered paper (4, 5, 6). Salmon in Court-bouillon (5, 6), as with trout. Boiled Salmon (5, 6).—Scale and clean the fish thoroughly, wash it, dry it, lay it in the fish-kettle (with the strainer in the kettle) with enough cold water to cover it, adding three ounces of salt to each quart of water. Boil up quickly, skim, and let it simmer gently till done, when the flesh will separate easily from the bone. As soon as it is done, drain it, and serve with melted butter and slices of lemon. Salmon Cutlets (5, 6).—Cut slices one inch thick, season them with pepper and salt, wrap each slice in buttered paper, folding the ends of the paper over. Broil gently over a clear fire for five to ten minutes. Remove the paper, and serve with cut lemon. Pried Salmon (5, 6).—Cut small, thin, slices of salmon, re- moving all the skin. Melt some butter in a frying-pan, put io.