SOUPS, BROTHS, AND BEEF-TEA. 37 into a pint of white stock with slices of any common white fish or some small fish. Boil up, skim, simmer for half an hour, then strain, season, and thicken with half an ounce of butter and a quarter of an ounce of flour. Simmer for five minutes, put in the oysters, and when they are just warmed through, serve. Be careful not to boil the soup after the oysters are put in. Oonsomme of Fowl (3, 4, 5, 6).—Put into a saucepan two pints of grand bouillon with a pound and a half of knuckle of veal without bone, and half a fowl; add a saltspoonf ul and a half of salt. Boil up, skim, and simmer until the meat is cooked, then take it out, pass the consomme through a cloth, and remove all fat, clarify it with white of egg; strain it again. Puree of Green Peas (4, 5, 6).—Boil three quarters of a pint of green peas in plenty of water, with half a tablespoonful of salt. When well boiled drain in a sieve, and put the puree into a saucepan with a saltspoonful of sugar and three quarters of a pint of fowl consomme; keep moving the saucepan on the fire so that the puree may not burn, and, as soon as it boils, put it to simmer over the fire. Boil an ounce of rice (previously soaked for twelve hours) in a little consomme of fowl, drain it, and add it, with half an ounce of butter, to the puree. Stir until the butter is thoroughly melted. The addition of a little vinegar makes this soup more digestible except in cases of pyrosis. Beef Juice with Toast (3, 4, 5, 6).—Broil a rumpsteak over a hot fire until it is brown outside; cut it into pieces, and press all the juice out of it; season the juice with salt and a little pepper, and pour it over some dry toast on a hot dish. Serve hot. {Br. Fothergill.) Pish Consomme and Soup (4, 5, 6).—Put into a large frying pan with about three quarters of a pound of butter, five large carrots, four onions, three heads of celery, four shalots; all the foregoing to be cut in shces; one head of garlic, three cloves, two bay leaves, one sprig of thyme, twelve sprigs of parsley. Lightly fry them till they acquire a reddish colour. Add a large bottle of white, dry Bordeaux and eight or nine pints of water; boil, skim, and then add one and a half ounces of salt, and two pinches of crushed pepper. Put in the stewpan six or seven pounds of gurnets cut into pieces; next add the bones of six whiting, keeping the fillets for clarifying. Let it simmer for two hours on the side of the fire. When it is finished strain through a cloth. Pound the fillets of whiting with two whites of eggs; clarify the consomme with the whites of egg and fillets of whiting. The vegetables must be sufficiently fried to give the consomme a light tint. To present the above as a soup, make a number of small