POULTRY AND EGGS. 96 Treacle Posset (2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Ateaspoonful of treacle, a tea- spoonful of powdered ginger, and as much rum as the drinker fancies, stirred with a pint of warm milk. Good for a cold and has a high food value. (Dr. Fothergill.) A beaten-up egg added to the above is an improvement. Rum and Milk (2, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Half a pint of new milk, the yolk of an egg, a teaspoonful of sugar, a suspicion of nutmeg, and a spoonful (the size varies) of rum, all beaten together. Good against the night-sweats of phthisis. (Dr. Fothergill.) Milk and Eggs (2-3, 3,4,5, 6).—Beat up two eggs thoroughly; bring half a pint of milk to the boil and stir in the eggs. Add a lump of sugar, and, if desired, a teaspoonful of brandy or curacoa, or the thinly cut rind of part of a lemon (the lemon-peel should be allowed to steep in the milk near the fire). If the vessel contain- ing the milk and eggs be placed in a saucepan of boiling water and stirred one way until it thickens, it will form a custard. It should not be allowed to boil. The brandy should only be added after the custard has been heated. : Curd Pudding (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Turn two quarts of nulk and drain off the curd. Beat the curd in a mortar with two ounces of butter until well united. Then beat the yolks of sis eggs, and the whites of three, add them to the curd with a little grated biscuit and lemon-peel and some nutmeg. Mix well together and bake in a buttered dish. Bumbled Eggs (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Put into a frying-pan over the fire a small piece of butter, two tablespoonfuls of cream (or new milk) and a pinch of salt. Beat up an egg and put it into the frying-pan. Fry over a slow fire, stirring continually till it thickens, then take it off immediately, and pour it over a slice of toast previously buttered. Serve hot. Whisked Eggs (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Boil a pint and a half of slightly salted water in a saucepan, and stir it quickly in one direction till it forms a small whirlpool; into the middle of this drop an egg previously broken into a cup, and keep on stirring always in the same direction until the egg is set, but not hard. Then take it out carefully and place it on buttered toast m a hot plate, and put the plate in the oven while you whisk a second ess ' Serve hot with a little salt and pepper. Farm Custard (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Put into a small enamelled saucepan the yolks of four eggs, four teaspoonfuls of sugar the thinlv-cut peel of half a lemon, and a small pinch of salt. Mix well together with half a pint of milk ; set the saucepan on the fire stirring continually with a wooden spoon till it becomes thick and smooth. Do not let it boil or it will curd. Turn it into a basin and let it cool, stirring occasionally. Pass through a sieve. (Dr. Fothergill.)