FARINACEOUS FOOD. 55 Arrowroot Charlotte (3, 4, 5, 6).—Out two sponge-cakes into thin slices, and place them on the bottom and round the sides of a mould. Mix a tablespoonful of baked flour and one and a half tablespoonfuls of baked arrowroot with enough cold milk to a smooth paste. Heat a pint of milk in a saucepan, with a quarter of an ounce of isinglass, and stir in the paste just before it boils; boil for a few minutes, stirring all the time, and pour it boiling hot into the mould. When quite cold turn it out of the mould, and dust it with a little powdered sugar. Arrowroot Blanc-mange (3, 4, 5, 6).—Mix a keaped-up table- spoonful of baked arrowroot with a wineglassful of milk to a smooth batter; put two wineglassfuls of milk with a little lemon- peel and a little isinglass in it on the fire, until the milk is flavoured, then strain it, and add it while boiling to the arrow- root mixture; sweeten with powdered sugar, and let it all boil, stirring continually; add a teaspoonful of brandy; and when the mixture is thick enough turn it into a mould oiled with salad oil. Milk Soup with Yermicelli (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Put half a salt- spoonful of salt into a quart of boiling milk, and then acid slowly two ounces of vermicelli; keep on stirring while putting in the vermicelli, and for fifteen to twenty minutes afterwards, until it is perfectly tender. Cinnamon and powdered sugar in small quantities may be added, and the yolks of two eggs when the soup is ready to be taken off the fire. Corn Starch Pudding (3, 4, 5, 6).—Dissolve three tablespoon- fuls of baked corn starch in a little milk; mix with this two tablespoonfuls of sugar; add this to a quai't of nearly boiling milk, and boil for ten minutes, stirring briskly; then stir in three eggs well beaten. Heat up again for one minute and add a little salt. Bread Pudding (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Pour over a stale French roll half a pint of boiling milk, cover it close, and let it stand till it has soaked up the milk; tie it up lightly in a cloth, and let it boil a quarter of an hour. Turn it out on a plate, and sprinkle a little powdered sugar candy on it. Serve with custard sauce. (Dr. King Chambers.) Bread Pudding with Egg (3-4', 4, 5, 6).—Pour one-third pint boiling new milk on two ounces bread crumbs; cover it, and let it stand for an hour; then add the yolk of an egg well beaten, a little nutmeg, and half an ounce of sugar or a little salt. Beat nil up together; tie the pudding in a cloth, and boil or bake three quarters of an hour. (Dr. King Chambers.) Batter Pudding (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Beat together three teaspoon- fnls of browned flour, a pinch of salt, and a teaspoonful each of powdered ginger and nutmeg, in a little milk, to a smooth paste; add half an ounce of melted butter and a pint of milk. Boil in a