35 SOUPS, BBOTHS, AND BEEF-TEA. pounded together; then add wine, 20 parts j tincture of cinna- mon, 3 parts. (Br. Broadbent.) Raw Meat Juice—(See Infusion of Eaw Meat, p. 28.) Raw Meat (3, 4, 5, 6), may also be scraped with a knife, and the scrapings made into a sandwich, or mixed, if desired, with twice their weight of powdered white sugar. Toast Soup (2-3, 3, 4, 5. 6).—Boil three quarters of a pint of milk, cut some sippets of lightly browned toast, beat up the yolks of two eggs in a little boiling water. Put the toast in a tureen, dust it over with sugar and a small pinch of salt, pour the eggs in, and add the hot milk; stir well. Ox-tail Soup (3, 4, 5, 6).—Clean an ox tail, cut it into pieces and boil it very gently for four or five hours in a small quantity of water, well covered, until tender. Strain off the liquor and remove the fat; add a glass of wine and a little Worcester sauce Thicken with butter or cream. Calf's-tail Sotip (3, 4, 5, 6).—Made as above, substituting two calves tails for the ox tail. Mock Turtle Soup (3, 4, 5, 6).—Half boil half a calf's head without the skm. Take off all the meat in square pieces, break the bones, and boil them in veal and beef broth, seasoned with mace and pepper. Boil two or three ox palates till they are blanched, and cut them into small pieces, and add a cow heel likewise cut into pieces. Melt some butter, and thicken it with Hour, and pour the broth to it; add the above meats and stew Half a pint of sherry or Madeira, some chopped parsley cayenne pepper, and salt should be added two minutes before serving. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into a tureen, and pour the soup upon it. r Grand Bouillon (3, 4 5, 6).-Take a pound of beef, a pound of veal, and two pounds of bones and trimmings from meat • cut ut> the meat break the bones, and put all into a stewpan with five quarts of water, and half an ounce of salt; boil up, skim and add three carrots (if allowable). Simmer for five hours Pass through a cloth. " Mutton Broth (3, 4, 5 6).-Mince up one pound of lean loin or neck ot mutton without bone, and let it simmer beside the fire in a quart of water (originally cold) for three hours with a little salt (and a small piece of onion or a little chervil if allowable) Skim it. Pom- out the broth into a basin, and remove any fat which has not been previously skimmed off Mutton broth is made more nutritious by the addition of two tablespoonfuls of pearl barley, rice, or tapioca, which should be soaked for twelve hours, then boiled till soft, and added when the broth is heated for use. Veal Broth is made in the same way as mutton broth Eggs, Cream, and Extract of Beef (3, 4, 5, 6).—Wash one