MILK AND ITS PREPARATIONS. acidity of the stomach. Stale milk develops a fungus or mould which is the cause of the milk turning sour, and induces colic and diarrhoea, and, in young children, thrush. Where the diet is to consist exclusively of milk, the monotony may he partly remedied by giving the milk either cold or warm, sweetened or unsweetened, with or without water, if all these ways of administering it suit the digestion or appetite. It is somewhat more easily digestible if warmed, but generally not so- wholesome when boiled. Other variations of the diet, especially when milk alone causes a feeling of oppression with acid eructa- tions, and vomiting of curds, are formed by the addition ot mineral waters, e. g. soda, potash, Apollinans, Vichy or seltzer- water, or of a teaspoonful or two of brandy with one ot these mineral waters. Lime-water, or powdered bicarbonate of soda, magnesia, or chalk may also be added in these cases; lime-water, though not very palatable to adults, generally induces very easy digestion of milk ; or a little cinnamon or cinnamon-water may be added, which makes milk more digestible as well as more pleasant for some persons, and the same may be said of the addi- tion of ice to milk, j i Milk is very easily assimilated if it be artificially digested by- one of the various preparations for that purpose, e. g. Benger's Liquor Pancreaticus or peptonising powders, or Savory and Moore's peptonising pellets. Where cold milk is preferred to warm, the peptonising agent may be added to the cold milk, and the process completed in the stomach according to Sir William Robert's suggestion. If the regular process be gone through, care should be taken that it be not carried too far, as otherwise it develops an unpleasant bitter flavour in the milk (which may, however, be disguised by the addition of coffee, where this is allowable). _ Sometimes a small cupful of tea without milk or sugar will, if taken after milk, help its digestion ; with some people, however, it will have the opposite effect. For milk diet the milk should be as fresh as it is possible to procure it. It should be taken, as a rule, to the amount of half a tumblerful every two hours during the day, and at night also when the patient is wakeful. This quantity should not be swallowed at a gulp, but should be drunk with a spoon like soup. In some cases smaller quantities at shorter intervals will be more easily digested; in extreme cases it may be necessary to give it in teaspoonfuls every few minutes. In most milk diets milk may be given in any of the following ways: