FARINACEOUS FOOD. 44 readily pulverised by the teeth. The more completely fermenta- tion has taken place in bread, and the more thoroughly it is baked, the more wholesome the bread. Small cakes or rolls, not thicker than the finger, thoroughly baked, are the most whole- some form of bread, as these consist so largely of crust. Toast is more wholesome than bread crust, because of the extra cooking which it has undergone. Toast should be cut thin, and from stale bread; it should be thoroughly done, but not burnt, and should be eaten fresh, but not too hot. If allowed to cool too long, toast becomes tough and leathery. Hot buttered toast is not so wholesome as dry toast, as it will not crumble easily. Buttered toast, if steamed or dipped in boiling water, becomes more digestible. Rolls are digestible if light and thoroughly and slowly baked, so that the crumb is not too spongy. Hot rolls are generally too tough and tenacious. Viennese Bread and Milk Rolls, which are made of the finest flour, mixed with milk and water, with much yeast, and kneaded more thoroughly than ordinary bread, are pleasanter to the taste and more wholesome than the commoner sorts of English bakers' bread, which is, as a rule, neither palatable nor digestible, and often made of adulterated flour. Brown, or Whole-meal Bread, or Bran Bread, is more nou- rishing than white bread, and, if only used occasionally, is a convenient remedy for constipation, but the bran is to many people indigestible, and therefore it should not supersede white bread in ordinary diet. The corn must be thoroughly cleaned and well ground, not too coarse. Biscuits.—Plain thin biscuits, without much sugar or butter, are very wholesome if they are fresh, and not too hard. Charcoal Biscuits are a useful food for flatulent persons, and not disagreeable in taste. Sponge Rusks (2, 3, 4, &c.) are one of the lightest and most digestible forms of biscuit. Sponge Cakes (3, 4, 5, 6) are wholesome if well made, but not so good as Sponge Rusks. Cakes, if light and not containing too much sugar, lemon- peel, or too many currants, are fairly digestible. Oarraway seeds should not be put whole into cakes, but should be crushed. Confectionery of all sorts contains generally so much sugar as to make it unwholesome. Paste mixed with a little spirit is lighter and more digestible. Gruels are wholesome and nourishing if they be thoroughly boiled, so as to be free from lumps, and then passed through a sieve ; but they should not be eaten fast. "Water gruel is more easily digested, but milk gruel more nourishing, especially if raisins be added to it. Gruel may be made of oatmeal, pearl