PISH. 74 Plaice is very tender and nutritious, and is served fried, or au gratin, or with white wine, like soles. Dory has firm and flaky flesh, and is an excellent and whole- some fish. It is less rich than turbot. Dory is served boiled or in court-bouillon. Turbot contains much jelly. Only small, young turbot should be eaten by invalids, and in this state it is delicate, and digestible enough, and very nourishing. It is most wholesome plainly boiled or in court-bouillon, but it may be served au gratin, or d la Bechamel. Large turbot are too rich for persons with delicate digestion. Brill, when young, is delicate and excellent, but is not always easy of digestion, especially when large. It is dressed like the turbot. Halibut is another flat fish akin to the turbot and to the flounder. It is to be served like the turbot. Sea-bream is a fish of white and tender flesh. It may be served broiled in its skin ; the skin, however, should not be eaten. Grey Mullet is wholesome and nourishing. It is usually eaten boiled. Skate is an easily digested fish, and also of high nutritive value. It is sometimes leathery, and should then be avoided. The only time when skate is fit to eat is between August and April. It is usually boiled either whole or crimped. Thornback, inferior kind of skate. Cod is one of the best known fish, and is a very good food when it can be digested; but it always requires careful cooking, and is often tough or hard, in which case it is very unwholesome. When crimped it is more wholesome and more palatable. It may be served boiled, fried, or in cutlets. Ling and Hake are of the same class as cod, but inferior in every way. Salt Fish is usually cod, ling, or hake, and is not only nasty, but very indigestible, and has but one recommendation, viz. the egg sauce, which is also not very wholesome. Gurnet or Gurnard is a very excellent food. It should be boiled in court-bouillon. Bass has white, flaky, delicate and savoury flesh, and is easy of digestion. It is sometimes styled a "white salmon." It is cooked like the cod. Sturgeon, the royal fish 'par excellence—a, most excellent and nourishing fish, of which the flesh approaches that of beef or veal in flavour, and is not more easily digestible. It is best when young, and may be boiled, roasted, baked, or braised. Caviare, the roe of the sturgeon, is not a food, but a stimu- lant. A little on toast before dinner seems to excite the stomach to do its work, and to promote appetite, but in large quantities