COOKING. 70 again; then mix a teaspoonf ul of arrowroot in cold water, and pom- the boiling liquor upon it, stirring constantly. Let it stand till cold. (Dr. Fothergill.) Alkaline Drink (3, 4, 5, &c.).—Cut the rind of a lemon very thin, and put it in a jug with a tablespoonful of powdered sugar- candy. Pour on it a little boiling water, and when the candy is dissolved half a pint of Yichy water and half a pint of common water. (Dr. King Chambers.) Almond Drink (3, 4, 5, &c).—Two ounces of compound powder of almonds rubbed up with one pint of water. (Softening and nutritious in chest cases.) (Dr. King Chambers.) Bael Drink (2, 3, &c).—Half an ounce to one ounce of liquid extract of unripe Bael fruit in one pint of water. (In dysentery and diarrhoea.) (Dr. King Chambers.) Orgeat (3, 4, 5, &c).—Beat to a paste two ounces of almonds, with a teaspoonful of orange-flower water and a bitter almond, and pour a quart of milk and water (equal parts) on the paste. Place the glass in hot water if required warm. Orangeade or Lemonade (2-3, 3, 4, &c.).—Pour boiling water on a little of the peel, and cover close. Boil some water and sugar to a thin syrup and skim it Squeeze the juice, and mix it with the syrup and the infusion of peel (when both are cold); add as much water as will make a rich sherbet. Strain through a ^Coffee (4, 5, 6).—Take of fresh roasted and fresh ground coffee a quarter of an ounce to each cupful of water; put this into a silver, china, or glass coffee machine (not a tin one), and pour the boiling water over it, and let it pass through the strainer of the machine. If the water used be hard, a pinch of bicarbonate of soda must be added to it. Tea (6).—Pour boiling water into a small china or earthen- ware teapot; empty it out, and while the pot is still hot put in the tea. Add enough boiling water (with a pinch of bicarbonate of soda) to wet it thoroughly, and set it close to the fire to steam for four to five minutes. Then pour in the quantity of boiling water required, and immediately transfer the fluid, Avithout the tea-leaves, to a second warm pot. IX. COOKING. Roasting.—The fire should be bright and clear, and the meat at first hung close to it, in order that the outside layer may be quickly cooked, as the juices of the meat are better retained within it when the outside is hardened by quick cooking. After a short time, the meat should be hung farther away from the fire so that the interior of the. joint may be cooked more slowly