MEAT. 106 parts of mirepoix and blond de veau. After they are done the liquor is boiled down to one half, and served with the tails. Tripe Fried (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Cut up into small pieces half a pound of soft tripe, and lay the pieces for an hour in hock or white vinegar. Heat in a stewpan some fresh butter, and lay in it the tripe, and fry it slowly (lightly browned onions may be added if desired). As soon as the tripe is crisp and of a pale yellow colour, add a pinch of salt and a pinch of pepper, and a saltspoonful of meat-extract, stir, and heat for a few minutes longer. Take it from the fire, and add the wine or vinegar in which the tripe was soaked. Tripe Boiled (4, 5, 6). — Wash in cold water a pound of fresh-dressed tripe, cut into pieces about an inch square, and remove the fat. Boil it in half a pint of milk and half a pint of water, with two pinches each of salt and pepper a-nd castor sugar, and a little chopped parsley; boil slowly, strain, and let it simmer for three hours, skimming and stirring frequently. Take off all fat, and serve the tripe hot, with the strained liquor in which it was boiled. Tripe a la mode de Caen (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Take two pounds of tripe quite fresh and dressed, cut it into pieces three inches square. Blanch it for five minutes in cold water, and dry it. Remove all the fat. Out up half a pound of bacon into pieces an inch thick, and remove the rind. Bone a calf's foot, and cut it up into pieces. Put the bacon, the foot, and the tripe into a saucepan, mixing the meat together, and add three pints of stock, half a pound of onions, one ounce of parsley, and a little thyme, a clove, three pinches of salt and. one of pepper, and a gill of brandy, Cover the saucepan closely, boil up, and after it has boiled, let it simmer slowly for three hours. Remove the onions and herbs, take off the fat, and serve. Lamb Chops (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Having cut off the skin and fat, dip them in warm butter, add salt and pepper, and grill them over a bright, clear fire, turning them several times. They will take about ten minutes to cook. Serve them in their own gravy. Mutton Chops (4, 5, 6).—Dressed same way. Mutton Chop (steamed) (3-4, A, 5, 6).—Remove all fat from a loin-chop, and put the chop into a covered jar with half a wine- glassful of water; cover the jar closely, and let it stand in a fairly warm oven, or simmer in a saucepan of water for half an hour. Add a little salt before serving. Serve very hot with the gravy poured over the meat. Beef Palates (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Put the palate into boiling water and let it boil for ten minutes; then plunge it in cold water, drain it and scrape it carefully. Out the palate in half, and put it in a pint saucepan. Add half a pint of stock, a saltspoonhil of salt, and herbs and a clove and an onion if desired. Simmer for three