6 CHOICE OF FOOD. dark. Beds skcrald be hard, but elastic, and tbe bedclothes should be warm, but not too heavy. At least two hours should be allowed for digestion of the last meal before going to bed. Narcotics are dangerous and injurious, except when absolutely necessary, and should only be taken under medical advice. Attention tp the action of the bowels is of paramount import- ance in health as well as in sickness; they should act at least once every day. The best way of ensuring proper action of the bowels is to fix some particular time of the day for their relief; when this habit is once established, there will seldom be any occasion to take medicine to procure an evacuation. Fruit or jam at breakfast will often help to procure the desired effect, but it is better to take some simple medicine than to load the stomach with quantities of fruit, especially when there is a ten- dency to acidity. After a change of air or of diet it is often necessary to take a little aperient medicine to keep the bowels in order. Exercise is essential for the regulation of this function. Exercise is absolutely necessary for those who wish to keep themselves in good health, and especially for persons of weak and sluggish digestion, and those who have a tendency to obesity. The best forms of exercise are walking and gymnastics, which are suitable and convenient for everybody; riding, which is especially useful for persons whose livers are sluggish ; rowing, one of the best kinds of exercise for those who have chronic lung disease; running, sawing wood, digging, and the various active games, such as cricket, tennis, lawn tennis, &c. The best time for exercise is between meals, allowing an hour or more for digestion after a meal, and half an hour to an hour for rest before the next meal. In middle life and advanced age it is possible to take too much exercise. Elderly people should not overtire nor overheat themselves, nor make a labour of their exei'cise. Old people should never run. Smoking tobacco is not always prejudicial to digestion; on the contrary, it is frequently advantageous for persons of irritable stomachs and tempers, and for those who are overworried; but excessive use of tobacco is always harmful. Smoking should be only practised during leisure hours, when the sedative influence of tobacco is beneficial. Before meals, tobacco as a rule dimin- ishes the appetite for food, and should not be used at this time by those whose appetite is not good. Smoking should be dis- continued if it causes much spitting. Sir Henry Thompson calls tobacco "the ally of temperance," and in this respect, at any rate, it is healthful. It is said to be rare for a smoker to die of consumption. While a severe illness is at its height, many patients loathe food, and this is in rare cases a sign that food is unnecessary; but in general food should be given, even if there be a distaste