FARINACEOUS POOD. 51 soft. Pour off the fluid which has not been absorbed by the biscuit, and mash the biscuit up in a pint of new milk. (Dr. King Chambers.) II. (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Stir a powdered arrowroot or nursery biscuit into half a pint of milk. Sweeten. Both the above may be pancreatised (2, 3, 4, 5, 6). Soup a la Monaco (3, 4, 5, 6).—Fry a slice of bread in butter to a pale brown, add a little salt and white sugar, pour over it three quarters of a pint of boiling milk, and beat up the yolks of two eggs in the soup. Bread Soup I. (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Cut slices a quarter of an inch thick from a stale French roll. Have ready about a pint of stock well skimmed and strained. Pour over the slices of roll as much stock as they can soak up, and then add the rest of the stock boiling hot. The bread must not be boiled in the stock. II. (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Break up an ounce of stale crumb of bread in a pint of skimmed and strained stock; simmer for twenty rninutes, stirring with a wooden spoon. When the bread is entirely dissolved, serve hot. Oatmeal Soup (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Pour a pint of cold water over two ounces of oatmeal, and let it stand a minute ; then pour over it a pint of good broth, stirring quickly all the time. Strain through a fine strainer, boil for ten minutes, and season to taste. (Dr. Fothergill.) Pearl Barley and Cream Soup (3, 4, 5, 6).—Soak three ounces of pearl barley twelve hours, then boil in a pint and a half of water with a quarter of an ounce of butter and half a saltspoonf ul of salt, until the barley is soft under the finger ; drain the barley, and add three quarters of a pint of consomme of fowl. Boil up, and then simmer for a quarter of an hour, skim, pass through a sieve, and put it into a soup-tureen, then stir in a wineglassf ul of cream and a saltspoonful of butter. Eiee Soup (3, 4, 5, 6).—Soak half an ounce of Carolina rice for twelve hours. Blancb it in boiling water for five minutes, stirring it carefully, then take it out and put it into cold water • drain it, then pour it into a pint of boiling stock, and stir it up well. Put the lid three parts of the way over the saucepan, and simmer for two hours. Season with salt, skim, add the beaten- up yolks of two eggs, and serve hot. Vermicelli Soup (3, 4, 5, 6).—Blanch two ounces of vermi- celli for five minutes in a pint and a half of boiling water with a saltspoonful of salt. Pour off the water, and wash the vermicelli m cold water; drain in a sieve, then put it into a pint and a half of boiling bouillon or stock. Stir it with a spoon whilst it sim- mers for five minutes, skim, take off any fat, and serve. Macaroni Soup (3, 4, 5, 6) is prepared in a similar way.