POULTRY AND EGGS. 93 Custard pudding is also an excellent food; both these maybe given even during acute illness, and should be employed when milk disagrees. . . Omelettes, on the other hand, though equally nutritious, are not so -wholesome, but they may be given to convalescents. They should not be made with flour. It is most important to observe that eggs must be absolutely fresh; each day that they are kept detracts from their value as food and from their digestibility. In'custards and omelettes, as well as in all other ways of cooking eggs, this point is most essential. Duck eggs, goose eggs, and plovers' eggs are richer and less digestible than hen's eggs, and should not be given to invalids, and to dyspeptics but sparingly. Boiled Pigeon or Partridge (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Clean the bird and season it with a little salt and pepper; enclose it in puff paste, and boil for twenty minutes to half an hour. Remove the paste, and serve the bird in its own gravy with bread sauce. Bread Sauce (5, 6).—Boil the crumb of a stale French roll, with six or eight black peppercorns, a small piece of onion, and a pinch of salt, in half a pint of water till quite smooth ; then add a piece of butter about the size of a walnut, and stir till the butter is melted. " It is good hot with hot birds, cold with cold birds, and is excellent sick food." Braised Pigeon (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—See Braised Partridge. Boast Pigeon (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Empty and clean the pigeon, wipe it dry, season it inside with pepper and salt, and put about half an ounce of butter into the bird; truss it, cover it with a vine-leaf (if in season), over this put a coating of lard, and roast it at a quick fire for twenty minutes to half an hour. Be careful that it be thoroughly cooked. Serve with its gravy. Broiled Pigeon (4, 5, 6).—Split the pigeon down the back, having first drawn and washed it; season with two pinches of salt and one of pepper, rub the bird with butter, and sprinkle it with bread-crumbs; broil it for eight to ten minutes on each side (fifteen to twenty minutes altogether). Serve with gravy. Boast Chicken (4, 5, 6).—Draw, singe, and truss a fowl; cover it with a slice of bacon or with buttered paper; roast for thirty-five to forty-five minutes, according to size. Remove the paper about ten minutes before the fowl is cooked. Serve with brown gravy and bread sauce. Boiled Chicken (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Having prepared and trussed the chicken, put it in hot water for one minute, then rub lemon- juice over the body. Cover the breast with a thin slice of fat bacon, tie the chicken in a floured cloth, put it into hot water