46 FARINACEOUS FOOD. than meat. They should not be kept too long, as they are liable to get weevilly. Vermicelli is the more digestible of the two. Macaroni and cheese, if well cooked, and not tough, is very nutritious, and digestible to all except weak and irritable stomachs. Maize, or Indian Corn, is a good and wholesome article of food. In the United States it is eaten with beans as succotash ; the Italians boil it in water, and sprinkle it with grated Parmesan cheese, in which form it is called polenta. Hominy is digestible if well boiled. Potato Flour makes more digestible cakes than wheat flour but is not so nourishing. Millet is nourishing and refreshing when cooked in milk. Pap is made from browned wheat flour, which is boiled in milk until it no longer boils over ; it is indigestible if the cooking is not prolonged to this stage. It should not be made too thick. Pap is a useful food for children, but not for lymphatic children, nor for infants under six months old. Entire "Wheat Flour is the best material for making pap for infants. Salep, flour made from orchid roots, is an easily digestible food, and is good against diarrhoea, and in convalescence from this and from cholera. The Oriental salep is the best. Flour Sauces suit weak stomachs best when made from browned flour. Pastry is generally unwholesome, and is to be avoided by all except by the robust. Meat pasties and puddings are indigestible because of the generally half cooked, sad crust, and because of the quantity of fat which they contain. Dyspeptics should not eat the crust of fruit pies or puddings. Farinaceous foods are not so digestible as is generally supposed; they are liable to ferment, and to cause acidity, and should be given with caution where there is any tendency to these troubles. Milk (especially diluted milk) and soups are more easily digested than the simplest farinaceous foods. Light farinaceous puddings are made much more digestible if the tapioca, rice, &c, be heated for an hour or two dry in the oven before being added to the milk. The most perfectly diges- tible milk pudding is made by adding some ground malt to the baked starch, when the warm milk is poured on, and stirring the whole together, afterwards setting it in a warm place for ten minutes before putting it in the oven. No sugar should be added to such a pudding. {Dr. Fothergill.) Milk puddings are made more nourishing by the addition of butter after they are served, but this is only suitable in somewhat advanced convalescence. Prepared foods, such as Nestle's, Savory and Moore's, or