DRINKS. 57 VIII. DRINKS. As to the time for drinking, the golden rule is to drink only when thirsty, and to take no more than is enough to quench thirst. Drinking even water or other non-intoxicating beverage between meals is a habit not to be encouraged. None of the five good reasons for drinking should induce people to take alcoholic drinks between meals, as this practice always, sooner or later, injures the digestion. At meal-time a happy medium as to quantity is to be observed. Enough liquid must be taken to dilute the food, while too much fluid will impede digestion. Half a pint to a pint of fluid with each meal is a fair allowance, but some people require more, and some are better if they do not take so much. It is generally best to accustom oneself to drink only towards the end of a meal, but if the appetite be lessened by this practice, a small quantity of fluid may be allowed at the beginning of the meal, and the bulk of the drink required may then be taken after eating. Two and a half pints of fluid is the normal allowance for a day's drinking. The nature of the beverage should be suited to the taste and capability of each person. Some people are the better for a little alcohol, some are the worse. As a general rule, children should never take alcohol, whilst old persons are benefited by a mode- rate quantity. Tea and coffee should also be forbidden to chil- dren ; their chief drink should be milk or water. Water used to be, in Hesiod's time, the best of all drinks, but is now, what with sewage contamination and germs of diseases, and dirty filters, by no means free from danger. Rain-water would be the best water to drink, but it is gene- rally dirty before it can be collected, and is besides so insipid as to require passing through charcoal. Well and spring water are very liable to be contaminated by sewage. Spring water is very often too hard for drinking. River water is also diluted sewage if the houses on the banks drain into the river. Lake water, taken from lakes which are remote from all houses, and not supplied by rivers running through towns, should be the most wholesome, if the water be good and not too hard. Water conveyed through leaden pipes often contains poisonous material derived from the pipe, especially if the water be hard or sparkling. Water from iron pipes is not always more whole- some, producing anosmia and dyspepsia. Sparkling water is to be regarded with suspicion, as it fre- quently owes its appearance to defilement with sewage.