53 FARINACEOUS FOOD. •Gruyere (or of good English cheese, Sir H. T.). Put half this quantity of cheese into the saucepan, and mix over the fire; when •this quantity is mixed, add the rest of the cheese with a good half ounce of butter. The cheese should be well melted. If the cheese runs to oil, put an eighth of a pint of stock into the sauce- pan and stir over the fire for one minute. Season. (Sir H. Thompson.) [Tomato sauce makes an excellent addition. Half the above quantity of cheese and butter will be better for many English stomachs.] Milk may be substituted for the stock. (Gouffe.) Baking Powder.—Tartaric acid two ounces, bicarbonate of soda three ounces, common arrowroot three ounces. Mix well; keep in a wide-mouthed corked bottle, perfectly dry. (Sir H. Thompson.) Bread.—To two pounds coarsely ground or crushed whole wheat- meal, add half a pound of fine flour, and a sufficient quantity of baking powder and salt; when these are well mixed rub in about two ounces of butter, and make into dough, with skimmed milk and water (warm), or all milk if preferred. Make into flat cakes like tea-cakes, and bake at once in a quick oven, reducing the temperature before they are thoroughly baked. Bake thoroughly at the lower temperature. Half a pound of medium fine Scotch oatmeal may be substituted for the flour in the above receipt. (Sir S. Thompson.) Panereatised Custard Pudding (2,3, 4, 5, 6).—Take half a pint of panereatised milk gruel, let it cool somewhat, and add two well-beaten eggs with sugar and a very little nutmeg, and boil for ten minutes. Ground Malt and Milk Puddings (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—In making a milk pudding of any farinaceous article and ground malt, take half as much ground malt as tapioca, cornflour, rice, or other farina, and stir the malt into the boiling milk, then strain through a coarse cloth or sieve to remove the husks, and add the milk and malt to the tapioca, &c. Mix thoroughly and let the pudding stand for ten minutes in a warm place, then bake for an hour. Malt Flour (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6) may be used in the same way, but does not require straining, or the malt flour may be mixed with the farinaceous matter before the milk is added. No sugar should be used in making these puddings. Ground Malt Pudding (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).—Add a tablespoonful of ground malt to half a pint of boiling milk; stir constantly until cooked. Strain through a coarse cloth to remove the husks, and beat an egg into the pudding. (After Dr. Fothergill.) Malt Flour may be substituted for the ground malt, but is not •so tasty nor so nutritious (2-3, 3, 4, 5, 6).