VEGETABLES. 124 Hops: the young shoots gathered before they come out of the ground are boiled in salt and water, and eaten like asparagus. Kohl-rabi, an excellent and wholesome vegetable, though it occasionally causes flatulence. Haricot Beans.—Soak a quart of dried haricots in cold water for twelve hours; put them in a saucepan with two quarts of cold water and a little salt; boil, and when boiling, remove to the corner of the fire, and simmer slowly until tender, which will be in two or three hours. If the water be hard, add a little soda. Season with salt, and pepper, and a little butter. (Sir Hy. Thompson.) Mashed Potatoes.—Boil one pound of potatoes with their jackets on till they are thoroughly cooked. Peel them, and rub them through a fine sieve; when cool, add a small teacupful of fresh cream and a little salt, beating the pwee up lightly as you go on, till it is quite smooth; lastly, warm it up again before the fire or in the oven, and serve. (Dr. King Chambers.) Potato Puree.—Boil one pound of mealy potatoes till quite done,'drain them well, then whip them up with a fork on a hot dish until they are dry; then add slowly a mixture of a quarter of a pint of warm milk or cream with two ounces of butter and a little pepper and salt; keep on whipping the potatoes while adding this mixture, until the whole becomes a creamy mass. Serve piled lightly on a hot plate. Good broth or stock may be substituted for the milk. Potato Surprise.—Scoop out the inside of a sound potato, leaving the skin attached to one side as a lid. Mince up fine the lean of a mutton chop with a little salt and pepper, put it into the potato, pin down the lid, and bake or roast. Before serving (in the skin) add a little hot gravy. (Dr. King Chambers.) Asparagus.—Asparagus of the stouter sort should be cut of exactly equal lengths, and boiled, standing end upwards, in a deep saucepan. Nearly two inches of the heads should be out of the water, the steam sufficing to cook them, while the hard stalky part is rendered succulent by the longer boiling which this plan permits. They should be boiled for thirty or forty minutes. (Sir Hij. Thompson.) Salad.—The materials must be secured fresh, are not to be too numerous and diverse, must be well cleansed and washed without handling, and all water removed as far as possible. It should be made immediately before the meal, and can be kept cool until wanted. Yery few servants can be trusted to execute the simple details involved in cross-cutting the lettuce, or what not, but two or three times in a roomy salad bowl; in placing one salt- spoonful of salt, and half that quantity of pepper in a tablespoon, which is to be filled three times consecutively with the best fresh olive oil, stirring each briskly until the condiments have