SOUPS, BROTHS, AND BEEF-TEA. 28 is not nourishing, so the modern chemists saj, but merely stimu- lating, unless it is mixed with dextrose from farinaceous matters or maltine, or malt-extract. Soups and beef-tea, however, do nourish, when combined with other foods, and they are always acceptable to invalids, as being palatable and easily swallowed and digested. Dr. Lauder Brunton tells us that the reason why soup comes at the beginning of a dinner is that it, with the bread eaten with it, may excite the stomach to secrete the gastric juice necessary for the digestion of the rest of the dinner. It is well not to take too much soup, as the excess may give so much employment to the gastric juice that the rest of the dinner may remain undigested. Soups do not keep well, and if stale they are unwholesome; they should therefore be made afresh every day for invalids and dyspeptics. In acid dyspepsia, soups containing farinaceous ingredients are liable to cause flatulence and heartbura, and should therefore be avoided, while simple meat soups, though less nourishing, are generally well digested. Sometimes, on the other hand, meat soups disagree, while vegetable and farinaceous soups are well borne. Soup is often too highly seasoned with spices, garlic, onions, and parsley; these are tabooed in the diet of invalids, and their soup should be seasoned with a little salt and pepper, and perhaps a little Pancreatin. Infusions of Eaw Meat are made from minced meat, soaked in half its weight of water for two hours, then pressed forcibly through a cloth, so that the juice of the meat is collected with the water. These infusions should not be kept more tban twelve hours, and then only in ice or in a cold cellar, as they soon go bad. If made from mutton or beef they have the colour of blood, and are on that account objectionable to the majority of patients; made from veal the infusion is paler, but not so nourishing; it is more appetizing if made from the breast of a chicken, but not more nourishing than veal infusion. Meat infusions should not be cooked, but may be taken alone (cold), flavoured with a slice of lemon, or a little claret; or, to disguise the appearance, taste, and smell, they may be added to ordinary beef-tea or Liebig's Extract, but the beef-tea or Liebig must not be hotter than the temperature at which it can be drunk. A few teaspoonfuls of the meat infusion are enough at a time. (Sir Wm. Roberts.) Beef-tea is to be regarded as an excellent stimulant and restorative, but should not be depended upon as the only form of nourishment. When given, combined with milk diet, it serves to vary the monotony, and to assist the digestion, of that diet, the latter object being attained by the fillip which the beef-tea