63 DRINKS. "Wines to be wholesome must not only be good, but they must be kept in good condition, and served at the right temperature; cold wine does not improve the digestion nor the appetite. Dry wines are more wholesome than fruity wines. Persons liable to rheumatism should avoid all wines. Beer is not only a real food, but has a favorable effect on diges- tion if taken in moderate quantities. Half a pint of beer at a meal promotes the digestion of food, although large quantities delay it. The bitter of the hops in beer promotes the appetite. Light beers, if too fresh, may cause flatulence, colic, heartburn, &c. Stout is very often more suited to bilious persons than lighter ales, though sometimes the reverse is the case. Taken in con- siderable quantities stout is a useful remedy in some wasting diseases, especially consumption. It should be given in these cases in gradually increasing quantities, slightly warmed, but care must be taken that the digestion is not thereby affected. Stout-drinkers will be glad to learn that the flavour of their favourite beverage is imparted by London smoke. (Lombard.) Beer should not be drunk at meals when much fat or oily matter is consumed, as it is likely to produce acidity and flatu- lence with these foods. A glass of beer two hours after the last meal in the day will often produce sleep. The light, bitter table-beers and Bavarian beer are the most wholesome, as containing least alcohol. Beer is best digested when drunk during a meal. Beer should be forbidden to all those who are liable to rheu- matism. Dyspeptics and persons above the age of fifty are, as a rule, unable to drink beer, especially when they have any dis- ease of the liver. Spirits should not be drunk neat, but always freely diluted, in the proportion of five parts of water to one of spirit. One and a half sherry-glasses full of spirit per diem is a sufficient allowance for a man. Spirits are the most injurious form of alcohol when taken in excess, but in moderation are useful in some cases of dys- pepsia, and where it is desirable to give the alcohol in a concen- trated form. They should never be drunk on an empty stomach. Spirits should be at least ten years old; when of less age they are not free from fusel oil. Spirits are least unwholesome when mixed with effervescent alkaline water, such as potash, soda, or Seltzer water. Brandy.—Cognac is far the best form. Brandy, if it can be obtained good, is the most wholesome form of spirit, but it sometimes causes biliousness. Freely diluted with soda-water it is often useful in atonic dyspepsia, and is used medicinally in many exhausting diseases. Brandy and egg is an excellent re- storative food and stimulant.