122 VEGETABLES. Large artichokes should be boiled; the smaller ones may be fried or grilled. They are popularly supposed to be good against gout and rheumatism. Cardoons have the same properties and preparation as arti- chokes. Cucumbers are cold, heavy, and indigestible if eaten without stimulants, either alcoholic or vegetable (spices). They make a good lunch with bread and cheese, and with these accompani- ments they help digestion, but they are not good after a heavy meal. (Dr. King Chambers.) If pickled, or served with vinegar they are harmful in catarrh of the stomach. Young cucumbers freshly cut are the only ones which should be eaten; old, stale ones should be treated in the way hinted at in the " Beggar's Opera." Tomatoes are wholesome and refreshing if ripe; if not ripe they may produce colic. They are best raw, but if boiled and peeled while hot, and allowed to become cold before being eaten, they are excellent. They may also be broiled or baked, but should not be stuffed. Vegetable Marrow may induce colic if not ripe. Salads are wholesome for those who can digest them, but should be avoided by all who have not good teeth. They should not be too salt nor too sour, and, as a rule, too little oil is added to the dressing. The salt should be put in first, then the oil, which should be stirred in, lastly, vinegar in the proportion of one-fourth of the oil, and the whole well stirred up. Sometimes a little pepper is an improvement. There are various sorts of vegetables used for salads, of which lettuces, tomatoes, and cucumbers have already been noticed. Endive Salad is somewhat heavy and indigestible. Bean Salad is good and nourishing, and fairly digestible. It should be made with rather more vinegar than most other salads. Potato Salad should be made of waxy potatoes, boiled, and peeled and sliced while warm ; some meat gravy should then be poured over the potatoes, and lastly a little salt, a little vinegar, and plenty of oil well mixed with them. Water-cress increase the flow of urine and perspiration, but excite the stomach, and are often difficult of digestion. Dandelions make a good salad, but for this purpose they should be bleached by'being grown in dark places, else they are too bitter. Dandelion leaves may also be boiled like spinach, and are very wholesome in this way; for this purpose only the young leaves are used, after the ends have been cut off. Dande- lions are good for sluggish liver, constipation, and piles. Borage : the young leaves make a tolerable salad. "Wild Chicory (or Succory) makes a digestible salad, which is tonic and laxative, but very bitter.