PISH. ^5 Turcot a la Bechamel (6).—Trim slices of cold turbot, and serve witb Bechamel sauce. Turbot au Gratin (5, 6).—Trim pieces of cold turbot moisten them with Bechamel sauce, warm them, but do not let them boil. Powder with finely grated bread-crumbs, and a little grated cheese ; pour melted butter over it, and brown it in the oven. Eelpout (5, 6).—Soak in boiling water for ten minutes with a tablespoonful of vinegar. Brown some flour and butter, and season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and Seville orange-juice. Eelpouts a la Royale (6).—Soak the eelpout an boiling water with a tablespoonful of vinegar for five minutes. Skin and gut them ; dip them in milk, roll them in flour. Brown some flour and butter, and season this with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and the juice of a Seville orange. Into this put the eelpout, fry gently, and serve with slices of Seville orange, or of lemon. Eried Gudgeon (3-4, 4, 5, 6).—Take out the gills and inside, and cleanse them thoroughly; wipe them dry ; dip them in milk, roll them in baked flour, and fry them in butter until they are firm, and of a golden brown, which will be in three to four minutes. Serve with fried parsley. The long, thin gudgeons are more delicate than the fatter ones. Melted Butter (4-5, 5, 6) should be made with butter, flour, and a concentrated liquor made from the trimmings of the fish itself, with the addition of a few drops of lemon-juice. {Sir Henry Thompson) Sauce Mayonnaise (6).—Mix in a wide basin the yolk of an egg, lemon-juice, and a little mustard; mix thoroughly with a silver fork ; add salad oil little by little, stirring one way constantly ; take care that each quantity of oil is thoroughly mixed before adding more. To eight spoonfuls of oil add a spoonful of vinegar, a pinch of salt, and one of pepper. The sauce should not be too thick. Sauce Hollandaise (6).—Reduce in a quart saucepan two dessertspoonfuls of vinegar (with a teaspoonful of salt, and half a teaspoonful of pepper) to one teaspoonful of vinegar. Take it off the fire, and add two dessertspoonfuls of cold water with the yolks only of two eggs. Put this altogether on a slow fire, and stir with a wooden spoon. As soon as the yolks begin to set, take the saucepan from the fire, add two-thirds of an ounce of butter, stirring with the spoon until the butter is melted. Put it back on the fire for a minute, and add another two-thirds of an ounce of butter, stirring constantly. Take from the fire again, and add two-thirds of an ounce of butter, and, when this is melted, add one spoonful of cold water. Two ounces of butter have now been used. Repeat this operation with other two ounces of butter, adding two-thirds of an ounce at a time, but not putting fresh butter in until the previous quantity is melted. Stir constantly,