GAME AND WILD BIRDS. 87 his flesh becomes coarse and not so easy to digest. Venison should not be too fat, and ought not to be hashed and served with rich sauces but p ainly roasted, and served in gravy and eaten with cunant jelly.-(3f 4, 5, 6.) The haunch is the least digestible Dart—and the liver is a great delicacy. , , P Hare k not a digestible food, being inferior m this respect to all other game and to wild birds, and to all meat except pork and salt meat: even veal is easier to digest, though of less value as nutriment when digested. It is more suitable for persons able to take exercise than for convalescents from illness. The hare should not be too fat, and, like venison, is better roasted plainly and served in its own gravy with currant jelly. Leveret is more digestible than hare. T a-u,nJtA Rabbit as a food is of about the same rank as hare. It should be young (not above six months old) and, unlike other game, it should be eaten fresh and not allowed to hang The wild rabbit is a better food in every way than the tame. He may be roasted, fried after soaking in white wine and herbs, or grilled wrapped in buttered paper, or in ragont with asparagus. Wild Boar is fortunately not a dish likely to be ottered to invalids nor to dyspeptics; it is about as digestible as pork. Partridges are very delicate and wholesome food; they may- be given in quite early convalescence, and are best roasted, grilled, or braised. .. .. Grouse and other moor fowl are also digestible, especially it ■young ; they are to be cooked like partridges. Snipe and Woodcock (of which the snipe is the better) are delicate and digestible, and very suitable for persons who are iust beginning to feel an appetite for meat. Such persons should have their snipe and woodcock roasted, but should avoid the toast on which the birds are generally served. These birds may also be fried, grilled, or stewed. They should not be drawn. Quails rank with snipe and woodcock. They are best roasted, but may also be stewed. They should also be cooked without being drawn. Pheasant is a much over-rated bird; he has little more flavour than a chicken, and Is not nearly so digestible. The best way to cook him is to stuff him with steak, roast him, and send him to table without the steak. He may also be prepared after Brillat- Savarin's device, i. e. stuffed with potted woodcock ; but m this way he may upset the digestion, and it would be fitter to stuff a woodcock with two or three pheasants. As to the Becaflco and Ortolan, patients will be glad to learn that they may eat these birds in moderation, provided that they can get them. _ Landrail (Corncrake) is very good eating when roasted, and wholesome withal.