FISH. 75 it is heavy and indigestible. It should be quite fresh; if mouldy, it may cause diarrhoea. < . Shad is a gross, indigestible fish, which is either boiled era court-bouillon ; or broiled, or roasted and served on sorrel; or the fillets are fried in butter. Fresh Herrings, unfortunately, have too much tat to be very easily digested, but they are very nourishing and tasty. In small quantities they may be tried in late convalescence, or as an occasional fish for dyspeptics. They should be boiled, grilled, or baked, and served with mustard sauce. , Bloaters and Kippers are to be avoided by people with deli- cate digestions, but they are excellent in such a case as that sung by Ingoldsby— " We told his wife and his daughter To give him next morning a couple of red Herrings with soda-water." Pilchards are a superior sort of herring, but still more oily. They are cooked like herrings, and are also preserved in oil like sardines. Sardines are nourishing and digestible if only a small quantity be eaten. Sardines in oil are a fair substitute for cod-liver oil. Anchovies should only be eaten in moderation, being too stimulating and irritating to the stomach. They are best on bread and butter with tea, if salted; or the fresh anchovies may be fried in oil. Salmon Trout is a more delicate fish than the salmon itself, and more easy of digestion, as it does not contain so much fat. It is best boiled with the juice of a Seville orange as sauce, or it may be fried, or cooked in court-bouillon. Salmon is a juicy and fat fish, of high nutritive value, but very apt to disagree. It is best crimped. " As the fat is chiefly found in the underside of the fish, a slice from the back only should be taken . . . ; and in the fresh crimped fish the fat is in a more wholesome state than when on the second or third day after leaving the water it becomes oily and acquires a slight characteristic taste and odour." It should not be eaten in flakes, but cut in thin slices across the grain. The cucumber and vinegar, which are the usual accompaniments of salmon, are aids to its digestion. It may be boiled in water or in court- bouillon, or boiled in cutlets, or fried or baked. Red Mullet is also an oily fish, the oil being chiefly in the liver. It is a fairly digestible fish, but should only be eaten in moderation, and is not to be given in early convalescence. Red mullet should never be gutted; the best and most savoury way of cooking it is to bake it and serve it with its own gravy as its only sauce.