361 FINE PASTRY. CHAP. XVI.] dried and sifted ;* then throw into the mixture by slow degrees, three ounces of good butter, which should he dissolved, but only just luke-warm; heat the whole well, then stir briskly in, the strained juice and the grated rind of one lemon and a half. Line some pattypans with fine puff- paste rolled very thin, fill them two thirds full, and bake the tartlets about twenty minutes, in a moderate oven. Eggs, 4; sugar, 4 ozs.; potato-flour, or common flour, 1 dessertspoonful; butter, 3 ozs.; juice and rind of 1| full-sized lemon: baked 15 to 20 minutes. madame werner’s rosenvik cheese-cakes. Blanch and pound to the finest possible paste, four ounces of fine fresh Jordan almonds, with a few drops of lemon-juice or water, then mix with them, very gradually indeed, six fresh, and thoroughly well-whisked eggs; throw in by degrees twelve ounces of pounded sugar, and beat the mixture without inter- mission all the time; add then the finely grated rinds of four small, or of three large lemons, and afterwards, by very slow degrees, the strained juice of all. When these ingredients are perfectly blended, pour to them in small portions, four ounces of just liquefied butter (six of clarified if exceedingly rich cheese- cakes are wished for), and again whisk the mixture lightly for several minutes; thicken it over the fire like boiled custard, and either put it into small pans or jars for storing, f or fill with it, one third full, some pattypans lined with the finest paste; place lightly on it a layer of apricot, orange, or lemon-marmalade, and on this pour as much more of the mix- ture. Bake the cheese-cakes from fifteen to twenty minutes in a moderate oven. They are very good without the layer of preserve. Jordan almonds, 4 ozs.; eggs, 6; sugar, 12 ozs.; rinds and strained juice of 4 small, or of 3 quite large lemons; butter, 4 ozs. (6 for rich cheese-cakes) ; layers of preserve. Baked 15 to 20 minutes, moderate oven. CREME PATISSIERE, OR PASTRY CREAM. To one ounce of fineNfiour add, very gradually, the beaten yolks of three fresh eggs; stir to them briskly, and in small * A few ratifias, or three or four macaroons rolled to powder, or a stale sponge or Naples biscuit or two, reduced to the finest crumbs, may be substituted for either of these : more lemon, too, can be added to the taste. t This preparation will make excellent fanclionettes, or pastry-sandwiches. It will not curdle if gently boiled for two or three minutes (and stirred without ceasing), and it may be long kept afterwards.