BAKED PUDDINGS. 401 CHAP. XVIII.] Potatoes, 11 lb-; butter, 3 ozs.: sugar, 5| ozs.; eggs, 5; lemon- rind, 1 ; salt, few grains : 40 to 45 minutes. Obs.—When cold, this pudding eats like cake, and may be served as such, omitting, of course, the sugar or preserve, when it is dished. A RICHER POTATO PUDDING. Beat well together fourteen ounces of mashed potatoes, four ounces of butter, four of fine sugar, five eggs, the grated rind of a small lemon, and a slight pinch of salt; add half a glass of brandy, and pour the pudding into a thickly-buttered dish, ornamented with slices of candied orange or lemon rind; pour a little clarified butter on the top, and then sift plenty of white sugar over it. Potatoes, 14 ozs.; butter, 4 ozs.; sugar, 4 ozs.; eggs, 5 ; lemon rind, 1; little salt; brandy, | glassful; candied peel, 1^ to 2 ozs.: 40 minutes. Obs.—The potatoes for these receipts should be lightly and carefully mashed, hut never pounded in a mortar, as that will convert them into a heavy paste. The better plan is to prepare them by Captain Rater’s receipt (page 302), when they will fall to powder almost of themselves; or they may be grated while hot through a wire-sieve. Prom a quarter to a half pint of cream is, by many cooks, added to potato puddings. AN EXCELLENT SPONGE CAKE PUDDING. Slice into a well-buttered tart-dish three penny sponge cakes, and place on them a couple of ounces of candied orange or lemon-peel cut in strips. Whisk thoroughly six eggs, and stir to them boiling a pint and a quarter of new milk, in which three ounces of sugar have been dissolved; grate in the rind of a small lemon, and when they are somewhat cooled, add half a wineglassful of brandy; while still warm, pour the mixture on to the cakes, and let it remain an hour; then strain an ounce and a half of clarified butter over the top, sift or strew pounded sugar rather thickly on it, and bake the pudding for half an hour in a moderate oven. Sponge cakes, 3; candied peel, 2 ozs.; eggs, 6; new milk, X pint; sugar, 3 ozs.; lemon-rind, 1; brandy, \ glass; butter, 1 oz.; sifted sugar, 1-J oz.: \ hour. THE duchess’s PUDDING. Mix with half a pound of potatoes very smoothly mashed, three quarters of a pound of mincemeat, the grated rind of half D D