PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, BROWN, AND CO. 19 LOUDON.—AN ENCYCLOP/EDIA OF PLANTS; Including-all the Plants which are now found in, or have been introduced into. Great Britain; giving their Natural History, accompanied by such Descriptions, Engraved Figures, and Elementary Details, as may enable a beginner, who is a mere English reader, to discover the name of every Plant which he may find in flower, and acquire all the information respecting it which is useful and interesting. The Specific Characters by an Eminent Botanist; the Drawings by J. D. C. Sowerby, F.L.S. A new Edition (1841), with a new Supplement, com- prising every desirable particular respecting all the Plants originated in, or introduced into, Britain between the first publication of the work, in 1829, and January 1840: with a new General Index to the whole work. Edited by J. C. Loudon, prepared by W. H. Baxter, Jun., and revised by George Don, F.L.S.; and 800 new Figures of Plants, on Wood, from Drawings by J. D. C. Sowerby, F.L.S. 1 very large vol. 8vo. with nearly 10,000 Wood Engravings, 31. 13*. 6«f. cloth. *„* The last Supplement, separately, 8vo. 15s. cloth. LOUDON.—AN ENCYCLOP/EDIA OF COTTAGE, FARM, AND VILLA ARCHITECTURE and FURNITURE. Containing Designs for Cottages, Villas, Farm Houses, Farmeries, Country Inns, Public Houses, Parochial Schools, etc.; with the requisite Fittings-up, Fixtures, and Furniture, and appropriate Offices, Gardens, and Garden Scenery: each Design accompanied by Analytical and Critical Remarks illustrative of the Principles of Architectural Science and Taste on which it is composed, and General Estimates of the Expense. By J. C.Loudon, F.L.S. etc. New Edition, corrected, with aSupplement contain- ing 160 additional pages of letter-press, and nearly 300new engravings. 1 very thick vol. 8vo. with more than 2000 Engravings on Wood, 63s. cloth. “ The late Mr. Loudon has the merit of having conveyed more information upon archi- tecture in a popular style, as adapted for general readers, than was ever attempted before, or than has been accomplished since. His Encyclopaedia oj Cottage and Village Architecture is indispensable to the library of all non-professional readers who may at some time of their life propose to build a cottage or country-house—Westminster Review. *** The Supplement, separately, 8vo. 7s. 6d. sewed. LOUDON.—HORTUS BRITANNICUS: A Catalogue of all the Plants indigenous to or introduced into Britain. The 3d Edition (1832), with a New Supplement, prepared, under the direction of J. C. Loudon, by W. H. Baxter, and revised by George Don, F.L.S. 8vo. 31s.6rf. cloth. The Supplement separately, 8vo. 2s. 6cL sewed. The later Supplement separately, 8vo. 8s. sewed. LOUDON.—THE SUBURBAN CARDENER AND VILLA COMPANION: Comprising the Choice of a Villa or Suburban Residence, or of a situation on which to form one; the Arrangement and Furnishing of the House; and the Laying-out, Planting, and general Management of the Garden ana Grounds ; the whole adapted for Grounds from one perch to fifty acres and upwards in extent; intended for the instruction of those who know little of Gardening or Rural Affairs, and more particularly for the use of Ladies. ByJ. C. Loudon, F.L.S., etc. 8vo. with above 300 Wood Engravings, 20s. cloth. LOUDON.-HORTUS LIGNOSUS LONDINENSIS ; Or, a Catalogue of all the Ligneous Plants cultivated in the neighbourhood of London. To which are added their usual Prices in Nurseries. By J. C. Loudon, F.L.S. etc. 8vo. 7s. 6d. LOW.-ON LANDED PROPERTY, AND THE MANAGEMENT OF ESTATES; Comprehending the Relations between Landlord and Tenant, and the Principles and Forms of Leases; of Farm-buildings, Enclosures, Drains, Embankments, Roads, and other Rural Works, Minerals, and Woods. By David Low, Flsq. F.R.S.E. etc., author of “Elements of Practical Agriculture,” etc. 8vo. with numerous Engravings, 21s. cloth. “ In this solid volume Prof. Low has collected every thing applicable to the important interests at stake on the enlightened cultivation of the British soil; and has given ample instructions on the matters in relation to the great end he has principally in view. Resem- bling the late Mr. Loudon in the singular accuracy of his details, he has upon such data founded a code of illustration, which, once carefully perused, it will indeed be wonderful if it does not lead to extensive results, and teach alt concerned in the management of landed property to enlarge and expand the agricultural resources of the country, and signally improve the condition of landlord, tenant,and proprietor throughout the land." Literary Gazette. LOW.—THE BREEDS OF THE DOMESTICATED ANIMALS OF CREAT BRITAIN described. By David Low, Esq. F.R.S.E., Professor of Agriculture in the Univer- sity of Edinburgh ; Member of the Royal Academy of Agriculture of Sweden ; Corresponding Member of the Conseil Royal d’Agriculture de France, of the Societe Royal et Centrale, etc. etc. The Plates from drawings by W. Nicholson, R.S.A., reduced from a Series of Oil Paintings, executed for the Agricultural Museum of the University of Edinburgh by W. Shiels, R.S.A. In 2 vols. atlas quarto, with 56 plates of Animals, beautifully coloured after Nature, 16/. 16s. half-bound in morocco. Or in four separate portions, as follow:— The OX. 1 vol. atlas quarto, with 22 Plates, I The HORSE. 1 vol. atlas quarto, with 8Plates, price 6/. 16s. fid. half-bound morocco. price 3/. half-bound morocco. The SHEEP. 1 vol. atlas quarto, with 21 The HOG. 1 vol. atlas quarto, with 5 Plates, Plates, price 6/. 16s.6d. half-bound morocco. I price 2/. 2s. half-bound morocco. LOW.—ELEMENTS OF PRACTICAL AGRICULTURE; Comprehending the Cultivation of Plants, the Husbandry of the Domestic Animals, and the Economy of the Farm. By David Low, Esq. F.R.S.E., Professor of Agriculture in the Uni- versity of Edinburgh. 4thEdition,with Alterations and Additions,and above 200 Woodcuts. 8vo. 21s. cloth. “ Low's 1 Elements of Practical Agriculture' is the best work on farming in our language." Gardener’s Chronicle.