MODERN COOKERY. [_CHAP. XVII. 388 it into dumplings, and throw them into boiling water : in half an hour they will be ready to serve. A better kind of dumpling is made by adding sufficient milk to the flour to form a thick batter, and then tying the dumplings in small well-floured cloths. In Suffolk farm-houses, they are served with the drip- ping-pan gravy of roast meat; and they are sometimes made very small indeed, and boiled with stewed shin of beef. NORFOLK DUMPLINGS. Take a pound of dough from a baking of very light white bread, and divide it into six equal parts; mould these into dumplings, drop them into a pan of fast boiling water, and boil them quickly from twelve to fifteen minutes. Send them to table the instant they are dished, with wine sauce or raspberry vinegar. In some counties they are eaten with melted butter, well sweetened, and mixed with a little vinegar. They must never be cut, but should be torn apart with a couple of forks. SWEET BOILED PATTIES. (GOOD.) Mix into a very smooth paste, three ounces of finely-minced suet, with eight of flour, and a slight pinch of salt; divide it into fourteen balls of equal size, roll them out quite thin and round, moisten the edges, put a little preserve into each, close the patties very securely to prevent its escape, throw them into a pan of boiling water, and in from ten to twelve minutes lift them out, and serve them instantly. Butter-crust may be used for them instead of suet but it will not be so light. Flour, 8 ozs.; suet, 3 ozs.; little salt; divided into fourteen portions : boiled 10 to 12 minutes. BOILED RICE TO BE SERVED WITH STEWED FRUITS, PRESERVES, OR RASPEERRY VINEGAR. Take out the discoloured grains from half a pound of good rice; and wash it in several waters; tie it very loosely in a pudding cloth and boil it for three quarters of an hour; it will then be quite solid, and resemble a pudding in appearance. Sufficient room must be given to allow the grain to swell to its full size, or it will be hard; but too much space will render the whole watery. With a little experience the cook will easily ascertain the exact degree to be allowed for it. Four ounces of rice will require quite half an hour’s boiling ; a little more or less of time will sometimes be needed, from the difference of quality in the grain. Carolina rice, \ lb., boiled f hour; 4 ozs. rice, \ hour.