567 APPENDIX, CHANTILLY BASKET. The form of these is shown by the plate at page 444, but they can be varied to the taste, and made with cakes of different sizes. It is essential to keep them very dry after they are fastened together, and, as we have before observed, they should be filled only the instant before they are sent to table. They may first be lined with wafer-paper; a pint and a half of cream, when flavoured and whisked, will fill a large basket of this kind. TO MAKE ORANGE BASKETS EOR JELLY. The oranges for these should be large. First, mark the handle of the basket evenly across the stalk end of the fruit with the back of a small knife, or with a silver one, and let it be quite half an inch wide; then trace a line across from one end of the handle to the other, exactly in the middle of the orange, and when the other side is marked in the same way, cut just through the rind with the point of a pen knife, being careful not to pierce the fruit itself; next, with a tea or dessert spoon, take off the quartered rind on either side of the handle; pass a penknife under the handle itself; work the point of a spoon gently be- tween the orange and the basket, until they are separated in every part; then take the fruit between the thumb and fingers, and press it carefully out through one of the spaces on either side of the handle. STRAWBERRY TARTLETS. (GOOD.) Take a full half-pint of freshly-gathered strawberries, with- out the stalks : first crush, and then mix them with two ounces and a half of powdered sugar; stir to them, by degrees, four well-whisked eggs, beat the mixture a little, and put it into pattypans lined with fine paste: they should be only three parts filled. Bake the tartlets from ten to twelve minutes. RASPBERRY PUEFS. Boll out thin some fine puff-paste, cut it in rounds or squares of equal size, lay some raspberry jam into each, moisten the edges of the paste, fold and press them together, and bake the puffs from fifteen to eighteen minutes. Strawberry, or any other jam will serve for them equally well. CREAMED TARTLETS. Line some pattypans with very fine paste, and put into each