STORE SAUCES. 13D CHAP. V.] of minced eschalot may be substituted for one of the horse- radish, if the flavour be liked. CAYENNE VINEGAR. Put from a quarter to half an ounce of the best cayenne pep- per into a bottle, and pour on it a pint of pale vinegar. Cork it closely, and shake it well every two or three days. It may J remain any length of time before it is poured off, but will very soon be ready for use. From being so extremely pungent, it is, for some purposes, preferable to Chili vinegar, as the cayenne seasoning can be given with less of acid. It may be made of any degree of strength. We warn the young housekeeper against using essence of cayenne (or cayenne steeped in brandy) for flavouring any dishes, as the brandy is very perceptible al- ways, and gives an exceedingly coarse taste. Good cayenne pepper, f to ^ oz.; vinegar, 1 pint: infuse from 2 weeks to 12 months. LEMON BRANDY. {For flavouring sweet dishes.') Fill any sized wide-necked bottle lightly with the very thin rinds of fresh lemons, and cover them with good brandy; let them remain three weeks, then strain off the spirit and keep it well corked for use : a few apricot-kernels blanched and infused with the lemon-rind will give an agreeable flavour. ANOTHER STORE-FLAVOURING FOR PUDDINGS OR CAKES. Rasp on from two to four ounces of sugar the rinds of a couple of fine lemons, reduce the lumps to powder, and add it gra- dually to, and pound it with, an ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and wiped very dry. When these have been beaten to a fine paste, and the whole is well blended, press the mixture into a small pan, tie a paper over, and keep it for use. The proportions can be varied at pleasure, and the quantities in- creased : from a teaspoonful to three times as much can be mixed with the ingredients for a pudding. Cakes require more in proportion to their size. Rinds large lemons, 2; sugar, 2 to 4 ozs.; bitter almonds, 1 oz. DRIED MUSHROOMS. Peel small, sound, freshly-gathered flaps, cut off the stems, and scrape out the fur entirely; then arrange the mushrooms singly on tins or dishes, and dry them as gradually as possible in a gentle oven. Put them, when they are done, into tin