531 CHAP. XXIII.] CAKES. this forcibly for some minutes with the rolling-pin, and when it is extremely smooth roll it the third of an inch thick, cut it with a small square cutter, and bake the biscuits in a very slow oven until they are crisp to the centre: no part of them should remain soft. Half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda is said to improve them, but we have not put it to the test. Caraway- seeds can be added when they are liked. Flour, 2 lbs.; butter, 3 ozs.; sugar, 4 ozs.; new milk, 1 pint, or more : biscuits slowly baked until crisp. GOOD captain’s BISCUITS. Make some fine white flour into a smooth paste with new milk; divide it into small balls; roll, and afterwards pull them with the fingers as ihin as possible ; prick them all over, and bake -them in a somewhat brisk oven from ten to twelve minutes. THE colonel’s BISCUITS. Mix a slight pinch of salt with some fine sifted flour; make it | into a very smooth paste with thin cream, and bake the biscuits gently, after having prepared them for the oven like those which precede. Store them as soon as they are cold in a dry canister, to preserve them crisp : they are excellent. AUNT charlotte’s BISCUITS. These biscuits, which are very simple and wholesome, may- be made with the same dough as good white bread, with the addition of from half to a whole ounce of butter to the pound, kneaded into it after it has risen. Break the butter small, J spread out the dough a little, knead it in well and equally, and | leave it for about half an hour ; then roll it a quarter of an inch thick, prick it well all over, cut out the biscuits, and bake them in a moderate oven from ten to fifteen minutes: they should be crisp quite through, but not deeply coloured. White-bread dough, 2 lbs.; butter, 1 to 2 ozs.: to rise \ hour. Baked in moderate oven 10 to 15 minutes. Ohs.—To make the biscuits by themselves, proceed as for Bordyke bread; but use new milk for them, and work three ounces of butter into two pounds of flour before the yeast is added.