372 MODERN COOKERY. [chap. XYII. kind; and green gooseberries, damsons, and various other fruits, answer for it extremely well: the time of boiling it must be varied according to their quality and its size. For a pint and half mould or basin filled to the brim with apples or other fruit; flour, 4 tablespoonsful; eggs, 2 large or 3 small; milk, \ pint: If hour. Obs.—Apples cored, halved, and mixed with a good batter, make an excellent baked pudding, as well as red currants, cherries, and plums of different sorts. KENTISH SUET PUDDING. To a pound and a quarter of flour add half a pound of finely minced beef-suet,* half a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter one of pepper; mix these into a smooth paste, with one well-beaten egg, and a little cold milk or water; make it into the shape of a paste-roller, fold a floured cloth round it, tie the ends tightly, and boil it for a couple of hours. In Kent this pudding is usually sent to table with boiled beef, and is sometimes cooked with it also. It is very good sliced and broiled, or browned in a Dutch oven, after having become quite cold. Flour, 1 \ lb.; suet, \ lb.; salt, \ teaspoonful; half as much pepper; 1 egg; little milk or water: boiled 2 hours. ANOTHER SUET PUDDING. Make into a somewhat lithe, but smooth paste, half a pound of fine stale bread-crumbs, three quarters of a pound of flour, from ten to twelve ounces of beef-suet, chopped extremely small, a large half-teaspoonful of salt, and rather less of pepper, with two eggs and a little milk. Boil it two hours and a quarter. A CHEAP SUET PUDDING. With a pound of flour mix well an equal weight of good potatoes boiled and grated (or prepared by Captain Kater’s receipt, page 302), a quarter pound of suet, and a small tea- spoonful of salt. Make these into a stiff batter, with milk, and boil the pudding one hour in a well-floured cloth. APPLE, CURRANT, CHERRY, OR OTHER FRESH FRUIT PUDDING. Make a paste as for a beef-steak pudding, either with suet or butter; lay into a basin a well-floured cloth, which has been * A very common fault with bad and careless cooks is, that of using for paste and puddings suet coarsely chopped, which is, to many eaters, distasteful to the last degree.