[CHAP. IV. modern COOKERY. 114- yenne, or white pepper. Mix gradually with them, working the whole well together, two or three tablespoonsful of oil and two of vinegar. Should the sauce be curdled, pour it by degrees to the yolk of a raw egg, stirring it well round as directed for the Mayonnaise. A spoonful of tarragon, cucumber, or eschalot- vinegar, may be added with very good effect; and to give it increased relish, a teaspoonful of cavice, or a little of Harvey’s sauce, and a dessertspoonful of Chili vinegar may be thrown into it. This last is an excellent addition to all cold sauces, or salad dressings: the Rajah’s sauce (see Appendix), when good,is of finer flavour, and more pungent. Hard yolks of 2 or of 3 eggs; mustard, 1 teaspoonful (more when liked); salt, \ teaspoonful; pepper or cayenne; oil, 3 tablespoonsful; vinegar, 2. If curdled, yolk of 1 raw egg. Good additions: tarragon or eschalot, or cucumber-vinegar, 1 tablespoonful; Chili vinegar, 1 dessertspoonful, or Rajah’s sauce, half as much. Cavice or Harvey’s sauce at pleasure. Ohs.—A dessertspoonful of eschalots very finely minced are sometimes pounded with the yolks of eggs for this sauce: a morsel of garlic, not larger than half a hazel nut, may be sub- stituted for them advantageously. FENNEL SAUCE. Strip from the stems, wash very clean, and boil quickly in salt and water until it is quite tender, a handful of young fennel; press the water well from it, mince it very small, and mix it gradually with the quantity of melted butter required for table. Fennel, small handful; 10 minutes, or until quite tender. Melted butter, I to \ pint; little salt. * Obs.—The French use good pale veal gravy thickened with flour and butter for this sauce. PARSLEY AND BUTTER. Proceed exactly as for the fennel, but boil the parsley four or five minutes less; and be careful to press the water from it tho- roughly. For an improved sauce, substitute bechamel or white melted butter for the common melted butter. Chervil is boiled, chopped, and mixed with gravy, or with butter in the same way. Melted butter, or thickened veal gravy, third of pint ; parsley, boiled and minced, 1 dessertspoonful.