APPENDIX. 5S2 or very finely chopped, two ounces of candied orange or lemon- rind shred extremely small, and six ounces of jar raisins stoned and quartered: to these the Germans add a rather high flavour- ing of cinnamon, which is a very favourite spice with them, but a grating of nutmeg, and some fresh lemon-peel, are, we think, preferable for this composition. Mix all the ingredients well together; roll out some butter-crust a full back-of-knife thick- ness, cut it into four-inch squares, brush the edges to the depth of an inch round with beaten egg, fill them with the mixture, lay another square of paste on each, press them very securely together, make, with the point of a knife, a small incision in the top of each, glaze them or not at pleasure, and bake them rather slowly, that the raisins may have time to become tender. They are very good. The proportion of sugar must be -regu- lated by the nature of the fruit; and that of the almonds can be diminished when it is thought too much. A delicious tart of the kind is made by substituting for the raisins and candied orange-rind, two heaped tablespoonsful of very fine apricot jam. FAIHY FANCIES. this, answers for it better thin and very even, and with cut out a dozen or more of small sheets; then,with a cou- ple of round cutters, of which one should be about an inch in diameter, and the other only half the size, form four times (Fantaisies de Fees.) A small, but very inex- pensive set of tin cutters must be had for this prety form of pastry, which is, however, ' quite worthy of so slight a cost. The short crust, of which the receipt precedes than puff paste. Roll it the larger tin, shaped thus, the number of rings, and lay them on the sheets in the manner shown in the engraving. The easier mode of placing them regularly, is to raise each ring without removing the small cutter from it, to moisten it with a camel’s hair brush dipped in white of egg, and to lay it on the paste as it is gently loosened from the tin. When all the pastry is prepared, set it into a very gentle oven, that it may become crisp and yet remain