489 CHAP. XXI.] PRESERVES. clean slates or dishes, or upon wire-sieves. The flavour will he excellent. The strained juice of a lemon may he added to the syrup, with good effect, towards the end of the process, and an additional ounce or two of sugar allowed for it. DAMSON JAM. (VERY GOOD.) The fruit for this jam should be freshly gathered and quite ripe. Split, stone, weigh, and boil it quickly for forty minutes; then stir in half its weight of good sugar roughly powdered, and when it is dissolved, give the preserve fifteen minutes addi- tional boiling, keeping it stirred, and thoroughly skimmed. Damsons, stoned, 6 lbs.: 40 minutes. Sugar, 3 lbs.: 15 minutes. Obs.—A more refined preserve is made by pressing the fruit through a sieve after it is boiled tender; but the jam is excel- lent without. DAMSON JELLY. Bake separately in a very slow oven, or boil in a water-bath | (see page 467), any number of fine ripe damsons, and one third the quantity of bullaces, or of any other pale plums, as a portion of their juice will, to most tastes, improve, by softening the flavour of the preserve, and will rendef the colour brighter. Pour off the juice clear from the fruit, strain and weigh it; boil it quickly without sugar for twenty-five minutes, draw it from the fire, stir into it ten ounces of good sugar for each pound of juice, and boil it quickly from six to ten minutes longer, carefully clearing off all the scum. The jelly must be often stirred before the sugar is added, and constantly after- wards. DAMSON SOLID. (GOOD.) Pour the juice from some damsons which have stood for a night in a very cool oven, or been stewed in a jar placed in a pan of water; weigh and put it into a preserving pan with a pound and four ounces of pearmains (or of any other fine boiling apples), pared, cored, and quartered, to each pound of the juice; boil these together, keeping them well stirred, from twenty-five to thirty minutes, then add the sugar, and when it is nearly dissolved, continue the boiling for ten minutes. This, if done with exactness, will give a perfectly smooth and firm preserve, which may be moulded in small shapes, and turned out for table. To each pound clear damson-juice, 1J lb. pearmains (or other