CHAP. XIII.] GAME. 281 half covered with rich brown gravy and stewed slowly for thirty minutes; then turned, and simmered for another halt hour with the addition of some mushrooms to the gravy; or they may be covered with small mushrooms stewed apart, when they are sent to table. They can also be served with their sauce only, simply thickened with a small quantity of fresh butter, smoothly mixed with less than a teaspoonful of arrow- root and flavoured with cayenne and a little catsup, wine, or store sauce. Partridges, 2; mushrooms, \ to f pint; butter, \\ oz.; little mace and cayenne: roasted 30 to 40 minutes, or stewed 1 hour. Obs.—Nothing can be finer than the game flavour imbibed by the mushrooms with which the birds are filled, in this re- ceipt. BROILED PARTRIDGE. (Breakfast dish.) “ Split a young and well-kept partridge, and wipe it with a soft clean cloth inside and out, but do not wash it; broil it delicately over a very clear fire, sprinkling it with a little salt and cayenne ; rub a bit of fresh butter over it the moment it is taken from the fire, and send it quickly to table with a sauce made of a good slice of butter browned with flour, a little water, cayenne, salt, and mushroom-catsup, poured over it.” We give this receipt exactly as we received it from a house where we know it to have been greatly approved by various guests who have partaken of it there.” BROILED PARTRIDGE. (French Receipt.) After having prepared the bird with great nicety, divided, and flattened it, season it with salt, and pepper, or cayenne, dip it into clarified butter, and then into very fine bread-crumbs, and take care that every part shall be equally covered: if w anted of particularly good appearance dip it a second time into the butter and crumbs. Place it over a very clear fire, and broil it gently from twenty to thirty minutes. Send it to table with brown mushroom sauce, or some Espagnole. THE TRENCH, OR RED-LEGGED PARTRIDGE. This is dressed precisely like our common partridge, and is excellent eating if it be well kept; otherwise it is tough and devoid of flavour. It does not, we believe, abound commonly in England, its hostility to the gray partridge, which it drives