SOUPS. CHAP. I.] 21 PARSNEP SOUP. Dissolve, over a gentle fire, four ounces and a half of good hutter, in a wide stewpan or saucepan, and slice in directly two pounds of sweet tender parsneps ; let them stew very softly until all are tender, then pour in gradually sufficient veal stock, or good broth to cover them, and boil the whole slowly from twenty minutes to half an hour; press it with a wooden spoon through a fine sieve, add as much stock as will make two quarts in all, season the soup with salt and white pepper, or cayenne, give it one boil, skim, and serve it very hot. Send pale fried sippets to table with it. Butter, 4^ ozs.; parsneps, 2 lbs.: § hour, or more. Stock, 1 quart; 20 to 30 minutes ; 1 full quart more of stock ; pepper, salt: 1 minute. Obs.—We can particularly recommend this soup to those who like the peculiar flavour of the vegetable. ANOTHER PARSNEP SOUP. Slice into five pints of boiling veal stock or strong colourless broth, a couple of pounds of parsneps, and stew them as gently as possible from, thirty minutes to an hour ; when they are perfectly tender, press them through a sieve, strain the soup to them, season, boil, and serve it very hot. With the addition of cream, parsnep soup made by this receipt resembles in appearance the Palestine soup. Veal stock or broth, 5 pints ; parsneps, 2 lbs.: 30 to 60 mi- nutes. Salt and cayenne : 2 minutes. WESTERFIELD WHITE SOUP. Break the bone of a knuckle of veal in one or two places, and put it on to stew, with three quarts of cold water to the five pounds of meat; when it has been quite cleared from scum, add to it an ounce and a half of salt, two ounces and a half of onions, twenty corns of white pepper, and two or three blades of mace, with a little cayenne pepper. When the soup is reduced one third by slow simmering, strain it off, and set it by till cold; then free it carefully from the fat and sediment, and heat it again in a very clean stewpan. Mix with it when it boils, a pint of thick cream smoothly blended with an ounce of good arrow- root, two ounces of very fresh vermicelli previously boiled ten- der in water slightly salted and well-drained from it, and an