CHAP. I.] SOUPS. 31 with the pounded rabbit-flesh : this must be done with care, for if the liquid be not added in very small portions at first, the meat will gather into lumps, and will not easily be worked smooth afterwards. Add as much pounded mace and cayenne as will season the soup pleasantly, and pass it through a coarse but very clean sieve; wipe out the stewpan, put back the soup into it, and stir in when it boils, a pint and a quarter of good cream, mixed with a tablespoonfnl of the best arrow-root: salt, if needed, should be thrown in previously. Young rabbits, 3 ; water, or clear veal broth, 7 pints : f of an hour. Remains of rabbits ; onions, 2 ; celery, 1 head; car- rots, 3 ; savoury herbs; mace, 2 blades; white peppercorns, a half-teaspoonful; salt, 1 oz.: 4 hours. Soup, 4 to 5 pints; pounded rabbit-flesh, 8 ozs.; salt, mace, and cayenne, if needed; cream, If pint; arrow-root, 1 tablespoonful (or If oz.) BROWN RABBIT SOUP Cut down into joints, flour, and fry lightly, two full grown, or three young rabbits ; add to them three onions of moderate size, also fried to a clear brown; on these pour gradually seven pints of boiling water, throw in a large teaspoonful of salt, clear off all the scum with *care as it rises, and then put to the soup a faggot of parsley, four not very large carrots, and a small tea- spoonful of peppercorns; boil the whole very softly from five hours to five and a half; add more salt if needed, strain off the soup, let it cool sufficiently for the fat to be skimmed clean from it, heat it afresh, and. send it to table with sippets of fried bread. Spice, with a thickening of rice-flour, or of wheaten flour browned in the oven, and mixed with a spoonful or two of very good mushroom catsup, or of Harvey’s sauce, can be added at pleasure to the above, with a few drops of .eschalot-wine, or vinegar; but the simple receipt will be found extremely good without them. Rabbits, 2 full grown, or 3 small; onions fried, 3, middling- sized ; water, 7 pints ; salt, 1 large teaspoonful or more ; carrots, 4; faggot of parsley; peppercorns, 1 small teaspoonful: 5 to 51 hours. SUPERLATIVE HARE SOUP. Cut down a hare into joints, and put it into a soup-pot, or large stewpan, with about a pound of lean ham, in thick slices, three moderate-sized mild onions, three blades of mace, a faggot of thyme, sweet marjoram, and parsley, and about three quarts of good beef stock. Let it stew very gently for full two