MODERN COOKERY. 244 [CHAP. XI. upon it, should be kept upon the meat, to force it down under the brine. In from three to four months it will he fit for table, and will he delicate and excellent pickled pork. The pickling parts of a porker of sixteen stone (Kentish weight, or nine stone two pounds of common weight, or fourteen pounds to the stone) ; common salt, 2 gallons ; saltpetre, 2 lbs.; coarse sugar, 1 lb.; bay-salt, 2 lbs. TRENCH BACON FOR EARDING. Cut the bacon from the pig with as little lean to it as possible. Rub it well in every part, with salt which has been dried, reduced to powder, and sifted; put the layers of bacon close against and upon each other, in a shallow wooden trough, and set in a cool, but not a damp cellar; add more salt all round the bacon, and lay a board, with a very heavy weight upon it. Let it remain for six weeks, then hang it up in a dry and airy place. Pork, 14 lbs.; salt, 14 ozs.: 6 weeks. TO PICKLE CHEEKS OF BACON AND HAMS. One pound of common salt, one pound of the coarsest sugar, and one ounce of saltpetre, in fine powder, to each stone (fourteen pounds) of the meat will answer this purpose extremely well. An ounce of black pepper can be added, if liked, and when less sugar is preferred, the proportion can be diminished one half, and the quantity of salt as much increased. Bacon also may be cured by this receipt, or by the Bordyke one for hams. A month is sufficient time for the salting, unless the pork be very large, when five weeks must be allowed for a ham. The ingre- dients may be well mixed, and all applied at the same time. To each 14 lbs. of pork, salt, 1 lb.; coarse sugar, 1 lb.; salt- petre, 1 oz.; pepper (if used), 1 oz.: 4 to 5 weeks. HAMS SUPERIOR TO WESTPHALIA. Take the hams as soon as the pig is sufficiently cold to be cut up, rub them well with common salt, and leave them for three days to drain ; throw away the brine, and for a couple of hams of from fifteen to eighteen pounds weight, mix together two ounces of saltpetre, a pound of coarse sugar, and a pound of common salt; rub the hams in every part with these, lay them into deep pickling-pans with the rind downwards, and keep them for three days well covered with the salt and sugar; then pour over them a bottle of good vinegar, and turn them in the brine, and baste them with it daily for a month ; drain them well, rub