MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XX. 450 When cream is scarce, use milk instead, with an additional quarter-ounce of isinglass, and enrich it by pouring it boiling on the same proportion of almonds as for the second quince blamange (see page 449). Cream can in all cases be substi- tuted entirely for the milk, when a very rich preparation is desired. Peach jam will answer admirably for this receipt; but none of any kind should be used for it which has not been passed through a sieve when made. Isinglass, 1 oz.; new milk, 1 pint; cream, 1 pint; sugar, 3 ozs.; apricot jam, \ lb.; lemon-juice, 1 tablespoonful. Or: peach jam, \ lb.; cream, 1| pint. CURRANT BLAMANGE. In three quarters of a pint of clear currant-juice, drawn from the fruit as for jelly, and strained, dissolve an ounce and a half of isinglass; add nine ounces of sugar broken small, give the whole a boil, strain it, and stir it by slow degrees to three quarters of a pint of thick cold cream; when it is less than milk-warm pour it into the moulds. The proportions of juice and cream can be varied to the taste, and a portion of rasp- berries or strawberries added to the currants. Black currants would, we think, make an agreeable variety of this blamange for persons who like their peculiar flavour, but we have not tried them. Clear juice of red currants, | pint; isinglass, 1 \ oz.; sugar, 9 ozs.; cream, f pint. BLAMANGE RUB AN E, OR, STRIPED BLAMANGE. Make in the ordinary way, but a little firmer, one quart or two of blamange, according to the number of moulds that are to be filled ; divide it into three or four equal portions; add to one, sufficient prepared spinach-juice (see page 427), to colour it a full or a pale green; to another, some liquid cochineal or carmine;* to a third, should further variety be desired, a few drops of a strong infusion of saffron, or if its peculiar flavour be objected to, stir quickly some of the blamange quite boiling to the well-beaten yolks of three or four fresh eggs, and thicken it a l.ttle over a gentle fire with an additional spoonful or two of milk, for unless the whole be nearly of the same consistency, it will be liable to separate in the unmoulding. Chocolate, first boiled very smooth in a small quantity of water, will give an additional colour; and some firm, clear isinglass, or calf’s-foot * This may be purchased at any chemist’s, when the trouble of preparing it is objected to.