MODERN COOKERY. [chap. XXy. 542 done, as they will not soften by any means so easily in syrup as in unsweetened liquid. Dried plums, 1 lb.; water, \ pint, and light claret, \ pint, or water, f pint, and port wine, i pint: 1§ hour. Sugar, 4 ozs.: 1 hour, or more. Ob.s.—Common French plums are stewed in the same way, with or without wine. A little experience will teach the cook the exact quantity of liquid and of sugar which they require. BAKED COMPOTE OF APPLES. (Om)' little lady’s receipt.) Put into a wide Nottingham jar, with a cover, two quarts of golden pippins, or of the small apple which resembles them in appearance, called the orange pippin (this is very plentiful in the county of Kent), pared and cored, but without being di- vided; strew amongst them some small strips of very thin fresh lemon-rind, throw on them, nearly at the top, half a pound of good Lisbon sugar, and set the jar, with the cover tied on, for some hours, or for a night, into a very slow oven. The apples will be extremely good, if not too quickly baked: they should remain entire, but be perfectly tender, and clear in appearance. Add a little lemon-juice when the season is far advanced. Apples, 2 quarts; rind, quite small lemon; sugar, \ lb.: 1 night in slow oven; or some hours baking in a very gentle one. Obs.—These apples may be served hot as a second course dish; or cold, with a boiled custard poured round or pver them. They will likewise answer admirably to fill Gabrielles pudding, or a vol-au-vent a la creme, or the creamed toute im- perial, for which see Appendix. TO BAKE PEARS. Wipe some large sound iron pears, arrange them on a dish with the stalk end upwards, put them into the oven after the bread is drawn, and let them remain all night. If well baked, they will be excellent, very sweet, and juicy, and much finer hi flavour than those which are stewed or baked with sugar: the bon chretien pear also is delicious baked thus. STEWED PEARS. Pare, cut in halves, and core a, dozen fine iron pears, put them into a close shutting stewpan with some thin strips of lemon- rind, half a pound of sugar, in lumps, as much water as wiil nearly cover them, and should a very bright colour be desired, a dozen grains of cochineal, bruised, and tied in a muslin; stew the