550 MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XXYI. the punch to a froth, and serve it immediately with quite warm glasses. At the University the lemon -rind is usually omitted, but it is a great improvement to the flavour of the beverage. The sugar and spirit can he otherwise apportioned to the taste; and we would recommend the yolks of three eggs, or of four, in preference to the whole ones. New milk, 2 quarts; rind, 1 large lemon; fresh eggs, 2 ; cold milk, £ pint; rum, 1 pint; brandy, l pint. TO MULL WINE. (An excellent French receipt.') Boil in a wineglassful and a half of water, a quarter of an ounce of spice (cinnamon, ginger slightly bruised, and cloves), vTith three ounces of fine sugar, until they form a thick syrup, which must not on any account be allowed to burn. Pour in a pint of port wine, and stir it gently until it is on the point of boiling only: it should then be served immediately. The addi- tion of a strip or two of orange-rind cut extremely thin, gives to this beverage the flavour of bishop. In France light claret takes the place of port wine in making it, and the better kinds of vin du pays are very palatable thus prepared. Water, lg wineglassful; spice, f oz., of which fine cloves, 24, and of remainder, rather more ginger than cinnamon; sugar, 3 ozs.: 15 to 20 minutes. Port wine or claret, 1 pint; orange- rind, if used, to be boiled with the spice. Obs.—Sherry, or very fine raisin, or ginger wine, prepared as above, and stirred hot to the yolks of four fresh eggs, will be found excellent. A BIRTHDAY SYLLABUB. Put into a large bowl half a pound of sugar broken small, and pour on it the strained juice of a couple of fresh lemons; stir these well together, and add to them a pint of port wine, a pint of sherry, and half a pint of brandy; grate in a fine nut- meg, place the bowl under the cow, and milk it full. In serv- ing it put a portion of the curd into each glass, fill it up with whey, and pour a little rich cream on the top. The rind of a lemon may be rasped with part of the sugar when the flavour is liked, but it is not usually added. Juice of lemons, 2 ; sugar, \ lb. or more ; port wine, 1 pint; sherry, 1 pint; brandy g pint; nutmeg, 1 ; milk from the cow, 2 quarts. Obs.—We can testify to the excellence of this receipt.