MODERN COOKERY. SIS [chap. XY. VEGETABLE MARROW. It is customary to gather this when not larger than a turkey’s egg, but we should say that the vegetable is not then in its perfection. The flesh is whiter and of better flavour when the gourd is about six inches long; at least we have found it so with the kinds which have fallen under our observation. It may either be boiled in the skin, then pared, halved, and served upon a toast;. or quartered, freed from the seed, and left until cold, then dipped into egg and fine crumbs of bread, and fried; or it may be cut info dice, and reheated in a little good white sauce; or stewed tender in butter, and served in well- thickened veal gravy, flavoured with a little lemon-juice. It may likewise be mashed by the receipt which we have given for tur- nips, and in that form will be found excellent. The French make a fanciful dish of the marrows thus: they boil them tender in water, and halve them lengthwise as is usual, they then slice a small bit otf each to make them stand evenly in the dish, and after having hollowed the insides, so as to leave a mere shell, about half an inch thick, they fill them with a thick rich mince of white meat, and pour white sauce round them; or they heap fried crumbs over the tops, place the dish in the oven for a few minutes, and serve them without sauce. Size of turkey’s egg, 10 to 15 minutes; moderate-sized, 20 to 30; large, f to 1 hour. TOMATAS EN SALADE. These are now often served in England in the American fashion, merely sliced, and dressed like cucumbers, with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar. For various other American modes of preparing them for table, see tomata dumplings, Chap- ter xvn. ROAST TOMATAS. To serve with roast leg, loin, or shoulder of mutton. Select them nearly of the same size, take off the stalks, and roast them gently in a Dutch oven, or if more convenient, place them at the edge of the dripping-pan, taking care that no fat from the joint shall fall upon them, and keeping them turned that they may be equally done. From ten to fourteen minutes will roast them. STEWED TOMATAS. Arrange them in a single layer, and pour to them as much