146 MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. VI. they are quite cold, mince, and then mix them with four ounces of fine bread-crumbs, an ounce and a half of good but- ter, and part of that in which they were stewed, should the forcemeat appear too moist to admit of the whole, as the yolk of one egg, at the least, must be added, to bind the ingredients together; strew in a saltspoonful of salt, a third as much of cayenne, and about the same quantity of mace and nutmeg, with a teaspoonful of grated lemon-rind. The seasonings must be rather sparingly used, that the flavour of the mushrooms may not be overpowered by them. Mix the whole thoroughly with the unbeaten yolk of one egg, or of two, and use the forcemeat poached in small balls for soup, or fried and served in the dish with roast fowls, or round minced veal; or to fill boiled fowls, partridges, or turkeys. Small mushrooms, peeled and trimmed, 4 ozs. ; butter 1| oz.; slight sprinkling mace and cayenne: 5 to 7 minutes. Mush- rooms minced; bread-crumbs, 4 ozs.; butter, 1| oz. (with part of that used in the stewing); salt, 1 saltspoonful; third as much of cayenne, of mace, and of nutmeg ; grated lemond-rind, 1 teaspoonful; yolk of 1 or 2 eggs. In balls, poached, 5 to 6 minutes; fried, 6 to 8 minutes. Obs.— This, like most other forcemeats, is improved by being well beaten in a large mortar after it is entirely mixed. NO. 8. FORCEMEAT FOR HARE, The first receipt of this chapter will be found very good for hare, without any variation; but the liver boiled for five minutes, and finely minced, may be added to it, when it is thought an improvement: another half ounce of butter, and a small portion more of egg will then be required. A couple of ounces of rasped bacon, and a glass of port-wine are sometimes recommended for this forcemeat, but we think it is better without them, especially when slices of bacon are used.to line the hare. A flavouring of minced onion, or eschalot can be added, when the taste is in its favour; or the forcemeat No. 3 may be substituted for this altogether. NO. 9. ONION AND SAGE STUFFING, FOR PORK, GEESE, OR DUCKS. Boil three large onions from ten to fifteen minutes, chop them small, and mix with them an equal quantity of bread-crumbs, a heaped tablespoonful of minced sage, an ounce of butter, a half saltspoonful of pepper, and twice as much of salt, and put them into the body of the goose; part of the liver boiled for