192 MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. YIIT. the glaze. For directions to make it, see page 93. Where expense is not regarded, three or four pounds of veal may be added to the beef in this receipt, or the tongue may be stewed in a prepared gravy made with equal parts of beef and veal, and vegetables as above, but without salt: this may afterwards be converted into excellent soup. A fresh or an unsmoked tongue may be dressed in this way, but will require less time: for the former, salt must be added to the gravy. TO ROAST A BEEF HEART. Wash and soak the heart very thoroughly, cut away the lobes, till the cavities with a veal forcemeat (No. 1, page 148), secure it well with a needle and twine, or very coarse thread, and roast it at a good tire for an hour and a half, keeping it basted plentifully with butter. Pour melted butter over it, after it is dished, and send it to table as hot as possible. Many persons boil the heart for three quarters of an hour before it is ' put to the fire, and this is said to render it more delicate eating; the time of roasting must of course be proportionately diminished. Good brown gravy may be substituted for the melted butter, and currant jelly also may be served with it. 1 \ hour, or more. BEEF KIDNEY. Slice the kidney rather thin, after having stripped off the skin, and removed the fat; season it with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and sprinkle over it plenty of minced parsley, or equal parts of parsley and eschalots chopped very small. Fry She slices over a brisk tire, and when nicely browned on both sides, stir amongst them a teaspoonful of flour, and pour in by degrees a cup of gravy and a glass of white wine; bring the sauce to the point of boiling, add a morsel of fresh butter and a tablespoonful of lemon-juice, and pour the whole into a hot dish garnished with fried bread. This is a French receipt, and a very excellent one. BEEF KIDNEY. (A plainer way.) Trim, and cut the kidney into slices; season them with salt and pepper, and dredge them well with flour; fry them on both sides, and when they are done through, lift them out, empty the pan, and make a gravy for them with a small slice of butter, a dessertspoonful of flour, pepper and salt, and a cup of boiling "rater; shake these round and give them a minute’s simmering: