1 SO MODERN COOKERY. £chap. IV. BROWNED FLOUR FOR THICKENING SOUPS AND GRAVIES. Spread it on a tin or dish, and colour it, without burning, in a gentle oven, or before the fire in a Dutch or American oven: turn it often, or the edges will be too much browned before the middle is enough so. This, blended with butter, makes a con- venient thickening for soups or gravies, of which it is desirable to deepen the colour; and it requires less time and attention than the French roux of page 96. FRIED BBEAD-CRUMBS. Grate lightly into very fine crumbs four ounces of stale bread, and shake them through a cullender, without rubbing or touch- ing them with the hands. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a frying-pan, throw in the crumbs, and stir them constantly over a moderate fire, until they are all of a clear gold colour; lift them out with a skimmer, spread them on a soft cloth laid upon a sieve reversed, and dry them before the fire. They may be more delicately prepared by browning them in a gentle oven without the addition of butter. Bread, 4 ozs.; butter, 2 ozs. FRIED BREAD FOR GARNISHING. Cut the crumb of a stale loaf in slices a quarter-inch thick: form them into diamonds, or half diamonds, or shape them with a paste-cutter in any other way; fry them in fresh butter, some of a very pale brown, and others a deeper colour: dry them well, and place them alternately round the dish that is to be garnished. They may be made to adhere to the edge of the dish, when they are required for ornament only, by means of a little flour and white of egg brushed over the side which is placed on it: this must be allowed to dry before they are served. THE RAJAH’S SAUCE. Strain, very clear, the juice of six fine lemons; add to it a small teaspoonful of salt, a drachm of good cayenne-pepper, and a slight strip or two of the lemon-rind cut extremely thin. Give the sauce three or four minutes simmering; turn it into a China jug or basin; and when it is quite cold, strain it again, put it into small dry bottles, cork them well, and store them in a cool place which is free from damp. The sauce is good with- out being boiled, but is apt to ferment after a time: it is, we think, of much finer flavour than Chili vinegar. Lemon-juice \ pint; salt 1 small teaspoonful; cayenne 1 drachm ; simmered 5 minutes.