[CHAP. IX. MODERN COOKERY. 214 again with egg, and pass them a second time through the bread-crumbs. When all are ready, fry them in three or four ounces of butter over a moderate fire, from twelve to fourteen minutes. For sauce, mix smoothly with a knife, a teaspoonful of flour and an equal quantity of currie-powder, with a small slice of butter; shake these in the pan for about five minutes, pour to them a cup of gravy or boiling water, add salt and cayenne, if required, and the strained juice of half a lemon; simmer the whole till well flavoured, and pour it round the cutlets. A better plan is, to have some good currie sauce ready prepared to send to table with this dish; which may likewise be served with only well-made common cutlet gravy, from the pan, when much of the pungent flavour of the currie- powder is not desired. Bread-crumbs, 4 ozs.; salt, 1 teaspoonful; currie powder, 1 tablespoonful; veal, 2 lbs.: 12 to 14 minutes. Obs.—These cutlets may be broiled: they should then be well beaten first, and dipped into clarified butter instead of egg, before they are passed through the curried seasoning. VEAL CUTLETS, OR COLLOPS. (ENTREE.) {A la Frangaise.) Cut the veal into small, thin, round collops of equal size, arrange them evenly in a saute-pan, or in a small frying-pan, and sprinkle a little fine salt, white pepper, and grated nutmeg on them. Clarify, or merely dissolve in a clean saucepan, with a gentle degree of heat, an ounce or two of good butter, and pour it equally over the meat. Set the pan aside until the dinner-hour, then fry the collops over a clear fire, and when they are lightly browned, which will be in from four to five minutes, lift them into a hot dish, and sauce them with a little Espagnole, or with a gravy made quickly in the pan, and flavoured with lemon-juice and cayenne. They are excellent even without any sauce. 3 to 4 minutes. SCOTCH COLLOPS. (ENTREE.) Prepare the veal as for the preceding receipt, but dip the collops into beaten egg and seasoned bread-crumbs, and fry them directly in good butter, over a moderate fire, of a light golden brown ; drain them well in lifting them from the pan, and sauce them like the collops a la Frangaise.