268 [CHAP. XII. MODERN COOKERY. just before the dish is wanted for table, fry them quickly with- out allowing them to brown ; drain them well from the butter, pile them in the centre of a hot dish, and sauce them with some boiling bechamel. This dish may be quickly prepared by tak- ing a ready-dressed fowl from the spit or fetewpan, and by rais- ing the fillets, and slicing the scallops into the boiling sauce be- fore they have had time to cool. Fried, 3 to 4 minutes. GRILLADE OF COLD FOWLS. Carve and soak the remains of roast fowls as above, wipe them dry, dip them into clarified butter, and then into fine bread-crumbs, and broil them gently over a very clear fire. A little finely-minced lean of ham, or grated lemon-peel, with a seasoning of cayenne, salt, and mace, mixed with the crumbs, will vary this dish agreeably. When fried, instead of broiled, the fowls may be dipped into yolk of egg, instead of butter, but this renders them too dry for the gridiron. COLD FOWLS. (The Housekeeper's Receipt. A Supper Dish.) Cut very equally a sufficient number of slices from a cold ham, to form two or even three layers round the rim of the dish which is to be sent to table. Place the fowls, neatly carved and trimmed, in the centre, with some branches of curled pars- ley, or other light foliage amongst them. Cold tongue may be substituted for the ham with advantage. This dish has a hand- some appearance, and is convenient for the purpose of quick serving. FOWLS A LA MAYONNAISE. Carve with great nicety a couple of cold roast fowls; place the inferior joints, if they are served at all, close together in the middle of a dish, and arrange the others round and over them, piling them as high as you can in the centre. Border the dish with the hearts of young lettuces cut in two, and hard-boiled eggs, halved lengthwise. At the moment of serving, pour over the fowls a well-made mayonnaise sauce (see page 113), or, if preferred, a salad mixture, compounded with thick cream, instead of oil. TO ROAST DUCKS. In preparing these for the spit, be careful to clear the skin entirely from the stumps of the feathers; take off the