MODERN COOKERY-. 194 [chap. VIII* as much of thyme, two ounces of butter broken small, half a cupful of gravy or cream, a high seasoning of pepper and ca- yenne, and mace, or nutmeg, a small teaspoonful of salt, and three large eggs, well beaten. Melt a little butter in a pie dish, pour in the beef, and bake it half an hour; turn it out, and send it to table with brown gravy in a tureen. When cream or gravy is not at hand, an additional egg or two, and rather more butter, must be used. We think that grated lemon-rind improves the breslaw. A portion of fat from the joint can be added where it is liked. The mixture is some- times baked in buttered cups. Beef, \ lb.; bread-crumbs, 4 ozs.; butter, 2 ozs.; gravy or cream, \ cupful; parsley, 1 teaspoonful; thyme, two thirds of teaspoonful; eggs, 3, or 4, if small; salt, 1 teaspoonful; pepper and nutmeg, l teaspoonful each: bake \ hour. NORMAN HASH. Peel and fry two dozens of button onions in butter until they are lightly browned, then stir to them a tablespoonful of flour, and when the whole is of a deep amber shade, pour in a glass and a half of red wine, and a large cup of boiling broth or water; add a seasoning of salt and common pepper, or cayenne, and a little lemon-pickle, catsup, or lemon-juice, and boil the whole until the onions are quite tender; cut and trim into small handsome slices the remains of either a roast or boiled joint of beef, and arrange them in a clean saucepan; pour the gravy and onions on them, and let them stand for awhile to imbibe the flavour of the sauce ; then place the hash near the fire, and when it is thoroughly hot serve it immediately, with- out allowing it to boil. FRENCH RECEIPT FOR HASHED BOULLLI. Shake over a slow fire a bit of butter the size of an egg, and a tablespoonful of flour; when they have simmered for a minute, stir to them a little, finely-chopped onion, and a dessertspoon- ful of minced parsley ; so soon as the whole is equally browned, add sufficient pepper, salt, and nutmeg to season the hash properly, and from half to three quarters of a pint of boiling water or of bouillon. Put in the beef cut into small but thick slices; let it stand by the fire and heat gradually; and when near the point of boiling thicken the sauce with the yolks of three eggs, mixed with a tablespoonful of lemon-juice. For change, omit the eggs, and substitute a tablespoonful of catsup, and another of pickled gherkins, minced or sliced.