MODERN COOKERY. [[CHAP. XIII. 276 closely to the bone. Nearly double the usual quantity of forcemeat must be prepared: with this restore the legs to their original shape, and fill the body, which should previously be lined with delicate slices of the nicest bacon, of which the rind and edges have been trimmed away. Sew up the hare, truss it as usual; lard it or not, as is most convenient, keep it basted plentifully with butter while roasting, and serve it with the customary sauce. We have found two tablespoonsful of the finest currant jelly, melted in a half-pint of rich brown gravy, an acceptable accompaniment to hare, when the taste has been in favour of a sweet sauce. To remove the back-bone, clear from it first the flesh in the inside; lay this back to the right and left from the centre of the bone to the tips; then work the knife on the upper side quite to the spine, and when the whole is detached except the skin which adheres to this, separate the bone at the first joint from the neck-bone or ribs; (we know not how more correctly to describe it), and pass the knife with caution under the skin down the middle of the back. The directions for boning the thighs of a fowl will answer equally for a hare, and we there- fore refer the reader to them. STEWED HARE. Wash and soak the hare thoroughly, wipe it very dry, cut it down into joints, dividing the largest, flour and brown it slightly in butter, with some bits of lean ham, pour to them by degrees a pint and a half of gravy, and stew the hare very gently from an hour and a half to two hours: when it is about one third done, add the very thin rind of half a large lemon, and ten minutes before it is served stir to it a large dessert- spoonful of rice-flour, smoothly mixed with two tablespoonsful of good mushroom catsup, a quarter-teaspoonful or more of mace, and something less of cayenne. This is an excellent plain receipt for stewing a hare ; but the dish may be enriched with forcemeat (No. 1, page 143), rolled into small balls, and simmered for ten minutes in the stew, or fried and added to it after it is dished; a higher seasoning of spice, a couple of glasses of port wine, with a little additional thickening, and a tablespoon- ful of lemon-juice, will all serve to give it a heightened relish. Hare, 1 ; lean of ham or bacon, 4 to 6 ozs.; butter, 2 ozs.; gravy, 1± pint; lemon-rind, \: 1 hour and 20 to 50 minutes. Rice-flour, l large dessertspoonful; mushroom catsup, 2 table- spoonsful; mace, | of teaspoonful; little cayenne (salt, if needed) : 10 minutes.