CHAP. XVXXX.] BAILED PUDDINGS. 393 grate the rind of a lemon over,* and place three ounces of whole ratifias upon them, pour in sufficient of the custard to soak them; an hour afterwards add the remainder, and send the pudding to a gentle oven: half an hour will bake it. New milk, lx pint; bitter almonds, 8 to 10 (or bay leaves, 3 to 5, and bit of cinnamon); sugar, 4 to 6 ozs.; eggs, 6; brandy, 1 wineglassful; ratifias, 4 ozs.; rind \ lemon: baked, x hour. THE ELEGANT ECONOMIST’S PUDDING. We have already given a receipt for an exceedingly good boiled pudding bearing this title, but we think the baked one answers even better, and it is made with rather more facility. Butter a deep tart-dish well, cut the slices of plum-pudding to join exactly in lining it, and press them against it lightly to make them adhere, as without this precaution they are apt to float off; pour in as much custard (previously thickened and left to become cold), or any other sweet pudding mixture as will fill the dish almost to the brim; cover the top with thin slices of the plum pudding, and bake it in a slow oven from thirty minutes to a full hour, according to the quantity and quality of the contents. One pint of new milk poured boiling on an ounce and a half of tons les mois, smoothly mixed with a quarter pint of cold milk, makes with the addition of four ounces of sugar, four small eggs, a little lemon-grate, and two or three bitter almonds, or a few drops of ratifia, an excellent pudding of this kind; it should be baked nearly three quarters of an hour in a quite slack oven. Two ounces and a half of arrow-root may be used in lieu of the tons les mois, when this last is not procurable. We would especially recommend for trial the ingredient s of the lemon-pudding of page 391,f with the plum- pudding crust, as likely to make a very superior variety of this dish; we have not had it tested, but think it could scarcely fail. It must be well, though slowly baked. RICH BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. Give a good flavour of lemon-rind and bitter almonds, or of cinnamon, if preferred, to a pint of new milk, and when it has simmered a sufficient time for this, strain and mix it with a quarter-pint of rich cream; sweeten it with four ounces of sugar in lumps, and stir it while still hot to five well-beaten eggs; * A more delicate flavour is imparted by rasping the lemon-rind on sugar, and adding this to the mixture, t Second receipt.