CHAP. V.] STORE SAUCES. 135 amongst them as they are done half a pound of salt; then pour to them a quart of strong vinegar, and let them stand until they have become quite black, keeping them stirred three or four times a day; next add a quart of strong old beer, and boil the whole together for ten minutes ; strain it, and let it remain until the next day; then pour it off clear from the sediment, add to it half a pound of anchovies, one large head of garlic bruised, half an ounce of nutmegs bruised, the same quantity of cloves and black pepper, and two drachms of mace: boil these together for half an hour, and the following day bottle and cork the catsup well. It will keep for a dozen years. Many persons add to it, before it is boiled, a bottle of port wine ; and others recommend a large bunch of sweet herbs to be put in with the i spice. 1st Recipe. Expressed juice of walnuts, 1 quart; anchovies, [ 6 ozs.; eschalots, 4 ozs.; black pepper, £ oz.; cloves, £ oz.; mace, 1 drachm: 1 hour. 2nd. Walnuts, 100 ; salt, \ lb.; vinegar, 1 quart: to stand till black. Strong beer, 1 quart; anchovies, £ lb.; 1 head garlic; nutmegs, \ oz.; cloves, \ oz.; black pepper, ± oz.; mace, 2 drachms : \ hour. ANOTHER GOOD RECEIPT FOR WALNUT CATSUP. Beat a hundred green walnuts in a large marble mortar until they are thoroughly bruised and broken, and then put them into a stone jar, with half a pound of eschalots, cut in slices, one head of garlic, half a pound of salt, and two quarts of vinegar; let them stand for ten days, and stir them night and morning. Strain off the liquor, and boil it for half an hour with the addition of two ounces of anchovies, two of whole pepper, half an ounce of cloves, and two drachms of mace; skim it well, strain it off, and when it is quite cold pour it gently from the sediment (which may be reserved for flavouring common sauces) into small dry bottles ; secure it from the air by sound corking, and store it in a dry place. Walnuts, 100; eschalots, \ lb.; garlic, 1 head; salt, \ lb.; vinegar, 2 quarts : 10 days. Anchovies, 2 ozs.; black pepper, 2 ozs.; mace, i oz.; cloves, |oz.: \ hour. LEMON PICKLE OR CATSUP. Either divide six small lemons into quarters, remove all the pips that are in sight, and strew three ounces of salt upon them, and keep them turned in it for a week, or, merely make deep incisions in them, and proceed as directed for pickled lemons.