234 MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. X. lemon juice should be laid between them; if the cook be an expert carver, this had better be done before the lamb is sent to table. The cold Maitre d’Hotel sauce of page 107, may be substituted for the usual ingredients, the parsley being omitted or not, ac- cording to the taste. Serve good mint sauce, and a fresh salad with this roast. A leg, shoulder, or loin of lamb should be cooked by the same directions as the quarter, a difference only being made in the time allowed fur each. Fore quarter of lamb, If to 2 hours. Leg, 1| hour (less if very small) ; loin, 1 to If hour. Ohs.—The time will vary a little, of course, from the diffe- rence in the weather, and in the strength of the fire. Lamb should always be well roasted. SADDLE OF LAMB. This is an exceedingly nice joint for a small party. It should be roasted at a brisk fire, and kept constantly basted with its own dripping: it will require from an hour and three quarters to two hours roasting. Send it to table with mint sauce, and if convenient, with brown cucumber sauce also, and a salad. If to 2 hours. Obs.—The following will be found an excellent receipt for mint sauce :—With three heaped tablespoonsful of finely- chopped young mint, mix two of pounded and sifted sugar, and six of the best vinegar : stir it until the sugar is dissolved. ROAST LOIN OF LAMB. Place it at a moderate distance from a clear fire, baste it fre- quently, froth it when nearly done, and serve it with the same sauces as the preceding joints. A loin of lamb may be boiled and sent to table with white cucumber, mushroom, common white sauce, or parsley and butter. 1 to If hour. STEWED LEG OF LAMB WITH WHITE SAUCE. (ENTREE.) Choose a small plump leg of lamb, not much exceeding five pounds in weight; put it into a vessel nearly of its size, with a few trimmings, or a bone or two of undressed veal if at hand; cover it with cold water, bring it slowly to a boil, clear off the scum with great care when it is first thrown to the surface, and when it has all been skimmed off, add a bunch of thyme and parsley, and two carrots of moderate size. Let the lamb simmer only, but without ceasing, for an hour and a quarter; serve it covered