79 CHAP. II.] FISH. then put in the oysters, and let them remain by the side of the fire until they are very hot: they require so little cooking, that if kept for four or five minutes nearly simmering, they will be ready for table, and they are quickly hardened by being allowed to boil, or by too much stewing. Serve them garnished with pale fried sippets. Small plump oysters, 1 pint: their own liquor: brought slowly to the point of simmering. Cream, J pint; seasoning of pounded mace and cayenne; salt as needed; butter, 1 to 2 ozs.; flour, 1 large teaspoonful. Obs.—A little lemon-juice should be stirred quickly into the stew just as it is taken from the fire. Another mode of prepar- ing this dish is to add the strained liquor of the oysters to about an equal quantity of rich bechamel, with a little additional thickening; then to heat them in it, after having prepared and plumped them properly. Or: the beards of the fish may be stewed for half an hour in a little pale veal gravy, and this, when strained and mixed with the oyster-liquor, may be brought to the consistency of cream with the French thickening of Chapter VI. or, with flour and butter, then seasoned with spice as above : the process should be quite the same in all of these receipts, though the composition of the sauce is varied. Essence of anchovies, cavice, Chili vinegar, or yolks of eggs can be added to the taste. TO SCALLOP OYSTEES. Large coarse oysters should never be dressed in this way. Select small plump ones for the purpose, let them be opened carefully, give them a scald in their own liquor, wash them in it free from grit, and beard them neatly. Butter the scallop shells and shake some fine bread-crumbs over them; fill them, with alternate layers of oysters, crumbs of bread, and fresh butter cut into small bits ; pour in the oyster-liquor, after it has been strained, put a thick, smooth layer of bread-crumbs on the top, moisten them with clarified butter, place the shells in a Dutch oven before a clear fire, and turn them often till the tops are equally and lightly browned : send them immediately to table. Some persons like a little white pepper or cayenne, and a flavouring of nutmeg added to the oysters; others prefer pounded mace. French cooks recommend with them a mixture of minced mushrooms stewed in butter till quite tender, and sweet herbs finely chopped. The fish is sometimes laid into the shells after having been bearded only.