2 35 CHAP. X.] LAMB. with bechamel, or rich English white sauce, and send a boiled tongue to table with it, and some of the sauce in a tureen. 1J hour. LOIN OF LAMB STEWED IN BUTTER. (ENTREE.) Wash the joint, and wipe it very dry; skewer down the flap, and lay it into a close-shutting and thick stewpan, or saucepan, in which three ounces of good butter have been just dissolved, but not allowed to boil; let it simmer slowly over a very gentle fire for two hours and a quarter, and turn it when it is rather more than half done. Lift it out, skim and pour the gravy over it; send brown asparagus, cucumber, or soubise sauce to table with it; or brown gravy, mint sauce, and a salad. 2i hours. LAMB OR MUTTON CUTLETS, WITH SOUBISE SAUCE. (ENTREE.) The best end of two necks of either will be required for a handsome dish. Cut them thin with one bone to each; trim off the fat and all the skin, scrape the bones very clean that they may look white, and season the cutlets with salt and white pepper; brush them with egg, dip them into very fine bread- crumbs, then into clarified butter, and again into the bread- crumbs, which should be flattened evenly upon them, and broil them over a very clear and brisk fire, or fry them in a little good butter of a fine clear brown; press them in two sheets of white blotting paper to extract the grease, and dish them an end, with the points meeting at the top ; or place them one over the other in a chain, and pour into the centre a sou- bise, or a puree of cucumbers. Brown cucumber sauce, or a rich gravy, may be substituted for either of these in serving a quite simple dinner. Cutlets of the loin may be dressed in the same way, after being dipped into crumbs of bread mixed with a full seasoning of minced herbs, and a small quantity of eschalot, when its flavour is liked. The small flat bone at the end of the cutlets should be taken off, to give them a very good appearance. LAMB CUTLETS IN THEIR OWN GRAVY. Follow exactly the receipt for mutton cutlets dressed in the same way, but allow for those of lamb fifteen or twenty minutes less of time, and an additional spoonful of liquid. CUTLETS OF COLD LAMB. See the receipt for Cutlets of Cold Mutton, page 232.