[chap. XIV. 294 MODERN COOKERY. the oysters are done enough serve it up with a corresponding dish of rice on the opposite side of the table. The dish is con- sidered at Madras the ne plus ultra of Indian cookery.”* We have extracted this receipt, as it stands, from the Maga- zine of Domestic Economy, the season in which we have met with it not permitting ns to have it tested. Such of our read- ers as may have partaken of the true Oriental preparation, will be able to judge of its correctness ; and others may consider it worthy of a trial. We should suppose it necessary to beard the oysters. CURRIED GRAVY. The quantity of onion, eschalot, or garlic used for a currie should lie regulated by the taste of the persons for whom it is prepared ; the very large proportions of them which are accept- able to some eaters, preventing others altogether from partaking of the dish. Slice, and fry gently in a little good butter, from a couple to six large onions (with a bit of garlic, and four or five eschalots, or none of either), when they are coloured- equally of a fine yellow-brown, lift them on to a sieve reversed to drain; put them into a clean saucepan, add a pint and a half of good gravy, with a couple of ounces of rasped cocoa-nut, or of any other of the condiments we have already specified, which may require as much stewing as the oniqns (an apple or two, for instance), and simmer them softly from half to three quar- ters of an hour, or until the onion is sufficiently tender to be pressed through a strainer. We would recommend that for a delicate currie this should always be done; for a common one it is not necessary ; and many persons prefer to have the whole of it left in this last. After the gravy has been worked through the strainer, and again boils, add to it from three to four des- sertspoonsful of currie-powder, and one of flour, with as much salt as the gravy may require, the whole mixed to a 'smooth batter with a small cupful of good cream.* Simmer, it from fifteen to twenty minutes, and it will be ready for use. Lob- ster, prawns, shrimps, maccaroni, hard-boiled eggs, cold calf’s head, and various other meats may be heated and served in it with advantage. For all of these, and indeed for every kind of currie, acid of some sort should be added. Chili vinegar an- swers well when no fresh lemon-juice is at hand". * Native oysters, prepared as for sauce, may be curried by the receipt for eggs or sweetbreads, with the addition of their liquor. t This must be added only just before the currie is dished, when any acid fruit has been boiled in the gravy: it may then be first blended with a small portion of arrow-root, or flour.