FISH. 75 CHAP. II.] By substituting pale veal gravy for water, and thin strips of lemon-rind for the parsley, this may be converted into a white fricassee of eels: a flavouring of mace must then be added to it, and the beaten yolks of two or three eggs mixed with a couple of spoonsful of cream, must be stirred into the sauce before the lemon-juice, but it must on no account be allowed to boil after- wards. Rich brown gravy and port wine highly spiced, with acid as above, will give another variety of stewed eels. For this dish the fish are sometimes fried before they are laid into the sauce. TO BOIL LOBSTERS. In season from April to October. Choose them by the directions which we have already given at the commencement of this chapter, and throw them into plenty of fast-boiling salt and water, that life may be destroyed in an instant. A moderate-sized lobster will be done in from fifteen to twenty-five minutes; a large one in from half an hour to forty minutes : before they are sent to table, the large claws should be taken off, and the shells cracked across the joints without disfiguring them; the tail should be separated from the body and split quite through the middle; the whole neatly dished upon a napkin, and garnished with curled parsley or not, at choice. A good remoulade, or any other sauce of the kind, that may be preferred, should be sent to table with it; or oil and Chili vinegar, when better liked. To 1 gallon water 5 ozs. salt. Moderate-sized lobster, 15 to 25 minutes. Large lobster, 30 to 40 minutes. LOBSTER FRICASSEEB, OR AU BECHAMEL. (ENTREE.) Take the flesh from the claws and tails of two moderate-sized lobsters, cut it into small thick slices or dice; heat it slowly quite through in about three quarters of a pint of good white sauce or bechamel; and serve it when it is at the point of boiling, after having stirred briskly to it a little lemon-juice, just as it is taken from the fire. The coral, pounded and mixed gradually with a few spoonsful of the sauce, should be added previously. Good shin of beef stock, made without vegetables (see page 34), and somewhat reduced lay quick boiling, if mixed with an equal proportion of cream, and thickened with arrow-root, will answer extremely well, in a general way, for this dish, which is most excellent, if well made. The sauce should never be thin: nor more than sufficient in quantity to just cover the fish. For a second course dish only as much must be used as will adhere to