[CHAP. IY. 120 MODERN COOKERY. BOILED APPLE SAUCE. Apples of a fine cooking sort require but a very small portion of liquid to boil down well and smoothly for sauce, if placed over a gentle fire in a close-shutting saucepan, and simmered as softly as possible, until they are well broken, and their flavour is injured by the common mode of adding so much to them, that the greater part must be drained off again before they are sent to table. Pare the fruit quickly, quarter it, and be careful entirely to remove the cores; put one tablespoonful of water into a saucepan before the apples are thrown in; and proceed, as we have directed, to simmer them until they are nearly ready to serve : finish the sauce by the receipt which follows. Apples, | lb.; water, 1 tablespoonful; stewed very softly : 30 to 60 minutes. Obs.—These proportions are sufficient only for a small tureen of the sauce, and should be doubled for a large one. BAKED APPLE SAUCE. (Good.') Put a tablespoonful of water into a quart basin, and fill it with good boiling apples, pared, quartered, and carefully cored: put a plate over, and set them into a moderate oven for about an hour, or until they are reduced quite to a pulp ; beat them smooth with a clean wooden spoon, adding to them a little sugar, and a morsel of fresh butter, when these are liked, though they will scarcely be required. The sauce made thus is far superior to that which is boiled. When no other oven is at hand, a Dutch or an American one would probably answer for it; but we cannot assert this on our own experience. Good boiling apples, 1 quart: baked, 1 hour (more or less according to the quality of the fruit, and temperature of the oven); sugar, 1 oz.; butter, 5 oz. BROWN APPLE SAUCE. Stew gently down to a thick and perfectly smooth marmalade, a pound of pearmains, or of any other well-flavoured boiling apples, in about the third of a pint of rich brown gravy : season the sauce rather highly with black pepper or cayenne, and serve it very hot. Currie sauce will make an excellent substitute for the gravy when a very piquante accompaniment is wanted for pork or other rich meats.