CHAP. XV.3 VEGETABLES* 32 5 with good veal broth, throw in a little salt, and a morsel of sugar, and boil them rather quickly until they are quite tender, but unbroken; lift them out, draining them well from the broth ; dish, and pour over them some thick white sauce. As an economy, a cup of cream, and a teaspoonful of arrovroot, may be added to the broth in which the turnips have stewed, to make the sauce; and when it boils, a small slice of butter may be stirred and well worked into it, should it not be sufficiently rich without. turnips stewed in butter, (good.) This is an excellent way of dressing the vegetable when it is mild and finely grained; but its flavour otherwise is too strong to be agreeable. After they have been washed, wiped quite dry, and pared, slice the turnips nearly half an inch thick, and divide them into dice. Just dissolve an ounce of butter for each half-pound of the turnips, put them in as flat as they can be, and stew them very gently indeed, from three quarters of an hour to a fall hour. Add a seasoning of salt and white pepper when they are half done. When thus prepared, they j may be dished over fried or nicely broiled mutton cutlets, or served by themselves. For a small dish; turnips, 1 b lb.; butter, 3 ozs.; seasoning of white pepper; salt, \ teaspoonful, or more: f to 1 hour. Large dish, turnips, 2 lbs.; butter, 4 ozs. TURNIPS IN GRAVY. To a pound of turnips sliced and cut into dice, pour a quar- ter-pint of boiling veal gravy, add a small lump of sugar, some salt and cayenne, or white pepper, and boil them quickly from fifty to sixty minutes. Serve them very hot. TO BOIL CARROTS. Wash the mould from them, and scrape the skin off lightly with the edge of a sharp knife, or, should this be objected to, pare them as thin and as equally as possible ; in either case free them from all blemishes, and should they be very large, split them across the tops a few inches down; rinse them well, and throw them into plenty of boiling water with some salt in it. The skin of very young carrots may be rubbed off like that of new potatoes, and from twenty to thirty minutes will then be sufficient to boil them; but at their full growth they will re- quire from an hour and a half to two hours. It was formerly the custom to tie them in a cloth, and to wipe the skin from