MODERN COOKERY. 106 [CHAP. IV, CREAM SAUCE FOR FISH. Knead very smoothly together with a strong bladed knife, a large teaspoonful of flour with three ounces of good butter ; stir them in a very clean saucepan or stewpan, over a gentle fire until the butter is dissolved, then throw in a little salt, and some cayenne, give the whole one minute’s simmer, and add, very gradually, half a pint of good cream; keep the sauce constantly stirred until it boils, then mix with it a dessertspoonful of essence of anchovies, and half as much Chili vinegar or lemon- juice. The addition of shelled shrimps, or lobster cut in dice, will convert this at once into a most excellent sauce of either. Pounded mace may he added to it with the cayenne; and it may be thinned with a few spoonsful of milk should it be too thick. Omit the essence of anchovies, and mix with it some parsley boiled very green, and minced, and it becomes a good sauce for hoiled poultry. Butter, 3 ozs.; flour, 1 large teaspoonful: 2 to 3 minutes. Cream, \ pint; essence of anchovies, 1 large dessertspoonful (more if liked); Chili vinegar or lemon-juice, 1 teaspoonful; salt, | saltspoonful. SHARP MAITRE d’hOTEE SAUCE. (English Receipt.') For a rich sauce of this kind, mix a dessertspoonful of flour with four ounces of good butter, but with from two to three ounces only for common occasions; knead them together until they resemble a smooth paste, then proceed exactly as for the sauce above, but substitute good pale veal gravy, or strong, pure-flavoured veal broth, or shin of beef stock (which, if well made, has little colour), for the cream; and when these have boiled for two or three minutes, stir in a tablespoonful of common vinegar, and one of Chili vinegar, with as much cayenne as will flavour the sauce well, and salt, should it be needed; throw in from two to three dessertspoonsful of finely- minced parsley, give the whole a boil, and it will be ready to serve. A tablespoonful of mushroom catsup or of Harvey’s sauce may be added with the vinegar when the colour of the sauce is immaterial. It may be served with boiled calf’s head, or with boiled eels with good effect; and, as we have directed in another part of this volume, various kinds of cold meat and fish may be re-warmed for table in it. With a little more flour, and a flavouring of essence of anchovies, it will make, without