396’ MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XYIIT. ter, and less than a small quarter-teaspoonful of salt; boil the mixture for two or three additional minutes, keeping it stirred without ceasing; take it from the fire, let it cool a little, and stir to it briskly, and by degrees, the yolks of six eggs and the whites of four well beaten together, and strained or prepared for use as directed at page 364: four or five bitter almonds, pounded with a little sugar, will heighten the flavour pleasantly to many tastes. When the pudding is nearly cold, pour it gently into a stewpan or mould, prepared as for the Gateau de Riz of page 397, and bake it in a very gentle oven from an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half. SUTHERLAND OR CASTLE PUDDINGS. Take an equal weight of eggs in the shell, of good butter, of fine dry flour, and of sifted sugar. First, whisk the eggs for ten minutes, or until they appear extremely light; then throw in the sugar by degrees, and continue the whisking for four or five minutes; next, strew in the flour, also gradually, and when it appears smoothly blended with the other ingredients, pour the butter to them in small portions, each of which should be beaten in until there is no appearance of it left. It should pre- viously be just liquefied with the least possible degree of heat; this may be effected by putting it into a well-wanned saucepan, and shaking it round until it is dissolved. A grain or two of salt should be thrown in with the flour; and the rind of half a fine lemon rasped on sugar, or grated, if more convenient, or some pounded mace, or the store-flavouring of page 139, can be added at choice. Four the mixture, directly it is ready, into well-buttered cups, and bake the puddings from twenty to twenty five minutes. When cold, they resemble good pound cakes, and may be served as such. Wine sauce should be sent to table with them. Eggs, 4 ; their weight in flour, sugar, and butter; little salt; flavouring of pounded mace or lemon-rind. Obs.—Three eggs are sufficient for a small dish of these pud- dings. They may be varied with an ounce or two of candied citron; or with a spoonful of brandy, or a little orange flower water. The mode we have given of making them will be found perfectly successful if our directions be followed with exact- ness. In a slack oven they will not be too much baked in half an hour.