MODERN COOKERY. 40 [chap. r. according to the taste, cut thin, a few small sprigs of parsley, and, when the flavour is liked, a dozen leaves or more of mint, roughly chopped: keep these stirred over a gentle fire for nearly or quite an hour, and strew over them a half-teaspoonful of salt, and a good seasoning of white pepper or cayenne. When they are partially done, drain them from the butter, put them into the strained stock, and let the whole boil gently until all the butter has been thrown to the surface, and been entirely cleared from it; then throw in from half to three quarters of a pint of young peas, boiled as for eating, and serve the soup im- mediately. When more convenient, the peas, with a portion of the liquor, may be pressed through a sieve, instead of being crushed in a mortar ; and when the colour of the soup is not so much a con- sideration as the flavour, they may be slowly stewed until per- fectly tender in four ounces of good butter, instead of being boiled: a few green onions, and some branches of parsley may then be added to them. Green peas, 1 quart; water, 5 pints; cucumbers, 3 to 6; lettuces, 3 or 4 ; onions, 1 to 4 ; little parsley ; mint (if liked), 12 to 20 leaves; butter, 3 to 4 ozs.; salt, half-teaspoonful; seasoning of white pepper or cayenne : 50 to 60 minutes. Young peas, i to § of a pint. Obs.—We must repeat that the peas for these soups must not be old, as when they are so, their fine sweet flavour is entirely lost, and the dried ones would have almost as good an effect ; nor should they be of inferior kinds. Freshly gathered mar- rowfats, taken at nearly, or quite their full growth, will give the best quality of soup. We are credibly informed, but can- not assert it on our own authority, that it is often made for ex- pensive tables in early spring, with the young, tender plants or halms of the peas, when they are about a foot in height. They are cut off close to the ground, like small salad, then boiled and pressed through a strainer, and mixed with the stock. The flavour is affirmed to be excellent. A CHEAP GREEN PEAS SOUP. "Wash very clean, and throw into an equal quantity of boiling water, salted as for peas, three quarts of the shells, and in from twenty to thirty minutes, when they will be quite tender, turn the whole into a large strainer, and press the pods strongly with a wooden spoon. Measure the liquor, put two quarts of it into a clean, deep saucepan, and when it boils, add to it a quart of full grown peas, two, or even three- large cucumbers, as many