227 CHAP. X.] MUTTON. in the following manner, will make a dish of better appearance and savour than a common hash or mince. Take off as much of the large end of the leg, quite through, as will render that side of the fillet perfectly flat; cut also evenly through the joint, where it has been carved; then remove the bone from the fillet, and replace it with veal forcemeat (No. 1, page 143); put the meat, with the bones, knuckle, and trimmings, into a stew- pot, or stout saucepan adapted to its size, and just cover it with water, or with broth in preference, when any stock is at hand; as soon as it boils, add a couple of onions, a bunch of parsley, two or even three bay leaves, four or five carrots, and as many turnips (plenty of vegetables, in fact), and simmer the whole gently for nearly, or quite a couple of hours. Thickening, spice, or store-sauce, can be added to the gravy at will, before the meat is served, which it should be with the vegetables round it. A FILLET OF MUTTON. Cut some inches from either end of a large and well-kept leg of mutton, and leave the fillet shaped like one of veal. Remove the bone, and fill the cavity with forcemeat (No. 1, page 143), which may be flavoured with a little minced eschalot, when its flavour is liked: more forcemeat may be added by detaching the skin sufficiently on the flap side to admit it. When thus prepared, the fillet may be floured, and roasted, served with currant-jelly and brown gravy, or with only melted butter poured over it; or it may be stewed gently for nearly or quite four hours, in a pint of gravy or water, after having been floured and browned all over in a couple of ounces of butter; it must then be turned every hour that it may be equally done. Two or three small onions, a faggot of herbs, a couple of carrots sliced, four or five cloves, and twenty whole peppercorns can be added at will. Roasted 2 hours, or stewed 4 hours. TO ROAST A LOIN OF MUTTON. The flesh of the loin of mutton is superior to that of the leg, when roasted; but to the frugal housekeeper this consideration is usually overbalanced by the great weight of fat attached to it; this, however, when economy is more considered than ap- pearance, may be pared off* and melted down for various kitchen uses, or finely chopped, and substituted for suet in making hot pie or pudding crust. When thus reduced in size, the mutton will be soon roasted. If it is to be dressed in the usual way, the