VEAL. CHAP. IX.] 201 and cut the head into slices of half an inch thick, brush them over with yolk of egg, and dip them into fine bread-crumbs, seasoned with the grated rind of half a lemon, half a teaspoonful of salt, a dessertspoonful of minced savoury herbs, some cayenne, and a little of the lean of a boiled ham chopped very small, should this last be at hand. Fry the cutlets in butter of a fine light brown, make some gravy in the pan as for veal cutlets, and add to it the juice of half a lemon; or mix a large tea- spoonful of currie-powder, and .one of flour, very smoothly with the butter, shake them over the fire for four or five minutes, and let the gravy simmer as much longer, after the water is added; or serve the cutlets, covered with good mush- room sauce. HASHED CALF’S HEAD. 'When the whole of this dish has to be prepared, make for it a quart of stock, and proceed in all else as directed for mock turtle soup (page 23) ; but after the head has been parboiled, cut down a full pound and a half of it for the hash, and slice it small and thick, instead of dividing it into dice. Make the brains into cakes (see page 148), and garnish the dish with forcemeat-balls, rolled in egg, and in the finest bread-crumbs, then fried a delicate brown, and well drained, and dried upon a warm sieve reversed. The wine and other seasonings should be the same as for the soup. Rich gravy, 1 quart; flesh of calf’s head, full 1| lb.; wine, and other seasonings, as for mock turtle soup. Obs.—The gravy for this hash should be stewed with ham, eschalots, &c., exactly as for the soup. CHEAP HASH OF CALF’S HEAD. Take the flesh from the bone of a cold boiled head, and put it aside until wanted; take about three pints of the liquor in which it was cooked; break the bones, and stew them down with a small bunch of savoury herbs, a carrot, or two should they be small, a little carefully fried onion, four cloves, a dozen corns of pepper, and either a slice or two of lean unboiled ham, or the bone of a boiled one, quite cleared of flesh, well bruised and broken, and freed carefully from any of the smoked out- sides. If neither of these can be had, from half to a whole pound of neck of beef should be stewed with the hones, or the whole will be insipid in flavour. When the liquid is reduced nearly half, strain it, take off the fat, thicken it with a little well made roux, or, if more convenient, with flour and butter,