CHAP. XV.] VEGETABLES. 331 BRUSSELS SPROUTS. These delicate little sprouts, or miniature cabbages, should be gathered when not larger than a common walnut, and after being trimmed free from any decayed leaves, and washed very thoroughly, should be thrown into a pan of water properly salted, and boiled from eight to ten minutes, then well drained, and served upon a rather thick round of toasted bread, buttered on both sides. Eich melted butter must be sent to table with them. This is the Belgian mode of dressing this excellent vege- table, which is served in France with the sauce poured over it, or it is tossed in a stewpan with a slice of butter and some pep- per and salt: a spoonful or two of veal gravy (and sometimes a little lemon-juice) is added when these are perfectly mixed. 8 to 10 minutes. SALSIFY. We are surprised that a vegetable so excellent as this should be so little cared for in England. Delicately fried in batter,— which is a common mode of serving it abroad,—it forms both an elegant and delicious second course dish: it is also good when plain - boiled, drained, and served in gravy, or even with melted butter. Wash the roots, scrape gently off the dark outside skin, and throw them into cold water as they are done, to prevent their turning black; cut them into lengths of three or four inches, and when all are ready put them into plenty of boiling water, with a little salt, a small bit of butter, and a couple of spoonsful of white vinegar, or the juice of a lemon : they will be done in from three quarters of an hour to an hour. Try them with a fork, and when perfectly tender, drain, and serve them with white sauce, rich brown gravy, or melted butter. | to 1 hour. FRIED SALSIFY. (ENTREMETS.) Boil the salsify tender, as directed above, drain, and then press it lightly in a soft cloth. Make some French batter (see page 129), throw the bits of salsify into it, take them out sepa- rately, and fry them a light brown, drain them well from the fat, sprinkle a little fine salt over them after they are dished, and serve them quickly. At English tables, salsify occasionally makes its appearance fried with egg and bread-crumbs instead of batter. Scorgonera is dressed in precisely the same manner as the salsify.