517 CHAP. XXIII.] CAKES. hot, and beat it very gradually, but very thoroughly, into the cake, letting one portion entirely disappear before another is thrown in; add the rasped or finely-grated rinds of two sound fresh lemons, fill a thickly-buttered mould rather more than half full with the mixture, and bake the cake from an hour and a half to two hours in a well-heated oven. Lay paper over the top when it is sufficiently coloured, and guard carefully against its being burned. Jordan almonds, | lb.; bitter almonds, 1 oz.; eggs, 12; su- gar, 1 lb.; flour, f lb.; butter, 1 lb.; rinds lemons, 2 : 1 £ to 2 hours. Obs.—Three quarters of a pound of almonds may be mixed with this cake when so large a portion of them is liked, but an additional ounce or two of sugar, and one egg or more, will then be required. POUND CAKE. Mix, as directed in the foregoing receipt, ten eggs (some cooks take a pound in weight of these), one pound of sugar, one of flour, and as much of butter. A glass of brandy and a pound of currants may be added very gradually just before the cake is put into the oven, with any spice that is liked; and two or three ounces of candied orange or lemon rind, sliced thin, or an ounce of carraway seeds, may supply the place of all. A cake made with half the quantity of the ingredients must be baked one hour. RICE CAKE. Take six eggs, with their weight in fine sugar, and in butter also, and half their weight of flour of rice, and half of wheaten flour; make the cake as directed for the Madeira or almond cake, but throw in the rice after the flour ; then add the butter in the usual way, and bake the cake about an hour and ten mi- nutes. Give any flavour that is liked. The butter may be altogether omitted. This is a moderate-sized cake. Eggs, in the shell, 6 ; their weight in butter and in sugar; half as much flour of rice, and the same of wheaten flour: 1 hour, 10 minutes. WHITE CAKE. Beat half a pound of fresh butter to a cream, add to it an equal weight of dried and sifted sugar, the yolks and whites of eight eggs, separately whisked, two ounces of candied orange- peel, half a teaspoonful of mace, a glass of brandy, one pound of