BAKED PUDDINGS. 395 CHAP. XVIII.] oven. The icing may be omitted, and an ounce and a half of butter, just warmed, put into the dish before the pudding, and plenty of sugar sifted over it just as it is sent to the oven. Bread, 6 ozs.; butter, 1 oz.; milk, 1 pint; sugar, 3 ozs.; eggs, 5 yolks, 3 whites; candied orange-rind, 2 ozs.; little nut- meg. Icing, 3 whites of eggs; sugar, 3 tablespoonsful: baked, \ hour. ANOTHER BAKED BREAD PUDDING. Add to a pint of new milk a quarter-pint of good cream, and pour them boiling on eight ounces of bread crumbs, and three of fresh butter; when these have stood half an hour covered with a plate, stir to them four ounces of sugar, six ounces of currants, one and a half of candied orange or citron, and five eggs. A GOOD SEMOUEINA PUDDING. Drop lightly into a pint and a half of boiling milk two large tablespoonsful of semoulina, and stir them together as this is done, that the mixture may not he lumpy ; continue the stirring for seven or eight minutes, then throw in two ounces of good butter, and three and a half of pounded sugar, or of the finest Lisbon; next add the grated rind of a lemon, and, while the semoulina is still hot, beat gradually and briskly to it five well- whisked eggs; pour it into a buttered dish, and bake it about half an hour in a moderate oven. New milk, 1^ pint; semoulina,ozs.: 7 to 8 minutes. Su- gar, 3^ ozs.; butter, 2 ozs.; rind of lemon; eggs, 5 : baked in moderate oven, £ hour. FRENCH SEMOULINA PUDDING ; Or, Gateau de Semoule. Infuse by the side of the fire, in a quart of new milk, the very thin rind of a fine fresh lemon, and when it has stood for half an hour bring it slowly to a boil: simmer it for four or five minutes, then take out the lemon rind, and throw lightly into the milk, stirring it all the time, five ounces of the best quality ; of semoulina ;* let it boil over a gentle fire for ten minutes, then add four ounces of sugar roughly powdered, three of fresh but- * We have never in England, and rarely even in France, obtained any ap- proaching in quality to some, which, in conjunction with a packet of vermicelli, equally good, was procured for us by a country chemist, from Mr. Barron, 18, Pall Mall, whose successor, Mr. A. Cobbett, supplies excellent articles of the same kind.