[CHAP. XV. MODERN COOKERY. 326 * Sea plate, page 299. them with it after they were dressed; and old-fashioned cooks still use one to remove it; but all vegetables should, we think, be dished and served Avith the least possible delay after they are ready for table. Melted butter should accompany boiled carrots. Very young carrots, 20 to 30 minutes. Full-grown ones, \\ to 2 hours. CARROTS. (entree.) (The Windsor Receipt.) Select some good carrots of equal size, and cut the upper parts into even lengths of about two inches and a half, then trim one end of each into a point, so as to give the carrot, the form of a sugar-loaf.* When all are ready, throw them into plenty of ready-salted boiling water, and boil them three quarters of an hour. Lift them out, and drain them well, then arrange them upright, and all on a level in a broad steAvpan or sauce- pan, and pour in good hot beef-broth, or \real gravy to half their height: add as much salt as may be needed, and a small teaspoonful of sugar, and boil them briskly for half an hour, or longer, should they require it. Place them again upright in dishing them, and keep them hot while a little good brown gravy is thickened to pour 0A7er them, and mixed with a large teaspoonful of parsley and a little lemon-juice; or sauce them with common bechamel (see page 97), or white sauce, with or without the addition of parsley. Thick part of carrots cut in cones: boiled f hour. With gravy or broth, little salt and. sugar: \ hour, or more. Sauce: thickened gravy, bechamel made Avithout meat, or common white sauce. Ohs.—The carrots dressed thus are exceedingly good without any sauce, beyond the small quantity of liquid which will re- main in the steAvpan with them; or with a few spoonsful more of gravy added to this, and thickened with butter and a little flour. SWEET CARROTS. (ENTREMETS.) Boil quite tender some fine highly-flavoured carrots, press the water from them, and rub them through the back of a fine hair-sieve; put them into a clean saucepan or stewpan, and dry them thoroughly over a gentle fire; then add a slice of fresh butter, and when this is dissolved and well mixed with them, strew in a dessertspoonful or more of powdered sugar,