[]CH A.P. XXVII. MODERN COOKERY. 558 pint of water, two breakfast - cupsful of sufficiently good coffee for common family use. It will be stronger if slowly filtered in what i% called a perco- lator, or coffee-biggin, than if it be boiled. Press the powder closely down, measure the proper quantity of water into a common coffee-pot, or small kettle, pour in suffi- cient to just wet the coffee in the first in- Patent Percolator with Spirit-Lamp. stance, and then add the remainder slowly, keeping the water boiling all the time. Let it run quite through before the top of the percolator is lifted off, and serve it very hot with boiling milk or cream, or with both; or with boiling milk and cold cream. The propor- tion of coffee, after the first trial, can easily be increased or diminished at will. To make French breakfast-coffee, pour only a third as much of water on the powder, fill the cups two thirds with good new boiling milk, then add the coffee, which should be very strong. For the cafe noir served after dinner in all French families put less water still (this is the very essence of coffee, of which, however, not more than a small cup about two thirds filled, and highly sweetened with sugar in lumps, is generally taken by each person), and serve it without cream or milk, or any accompaniment, except white sugar- candy in powder, or highly refined sugar in lumps. This is drank immediately after the dinner; in families of moderate rank, generally before they leave the table ; in more refined life, it is served in the drawing-room the instant dinner is ended; sometimes with liqueurs after it, but not invariably. To boil coffee and refine it, put the necessary quantity of water into a pot which it will not fill by some inches; when it boils stir in the coffee; for unless this is at once moistened, it re- mains on the top and is liable to fly over. Give it one or two strong boils, then raise it from the fire, and simmer it for ten minutes only ; pour out a large cupful twice, hold it high over the coffee pot and pour it in again, then set it on the hob for