m - - -- —% 12 CATALOGUE OF NEW WORKS GRAY.—FIGURES OF MOLLUSCOUS ANIMALS, Selected from various Authors. Etched for the Use of Students. By Maria Emma Gray. Vol. I. 8vo., with 78 plates of Figures, 12s. cloth. GRAY AND MITCHELL’S ORNITHOLOGY.—THE GENERA OF BIRDS; Comprising their Generic Characters, a Notice of the Habits of each Genus, and an exten- sive List of Species, referred to their several Genera. By George Robert Gray, Acad. Imp. Georg. Florent. Soc. Corresp. Senior Assistant of the Zoological Department, British Museum; and author of the “ List of the Genera of Birds, ” etc. etc. Illustrated with 350 imperial 4to. Plates, by David William Mitchell, B.A. In course of publication in Monthly Parts, 10s. 6<f. each; each Part consisting generally of Four imperial quarto coloured Plates and Three plain, and accompanying Letter-press; giving the Generic Characters, short Remarks on the Habits, and a List of Species of each Genus as complete as possible. The uncoloured Plates will contain the Characters of all the Genera of the various Sub-families, consisting of numerous details of Heads, Wings, and Feet, as the case may require, for pointing out their distinguishing Characters. %* The Work will not exceed 50 Monthly Parts. No. 16 will be published on lsf of August. GRAY (J. E.)—THE GENERA OF MAMMALIA; Comprising their Generic Characters—a Notice of the Habits of each Genus—and a short Character of each of the well-established Species, referred to the several Genera. By John Edward Gray, Esq., Keeper of the Zoological Collection of the British Museum. Imperial 4to. uniform with Gray and Mitchell’s Ornithology; illustrated with 175 Plates. *** To be published in Monthly Parts, 12s. each; each Part to consist of Four coloured and Three plain Plates, with accompanying Letter-press. The Work will not exceed 25 Parts. Publication will commence when 150 Subscribers' Names have been received. GREENER.—THE CUN; Or, a Treatise on the various Descriptions of Small Fire Arms. By W. Greener, Inventor of an Improved Methodof Firing Cannon by Percussion, etc. 8vo. with Illustrations, 15s.boards. GREENER.—SCIENCE OF GUNNERY, As applied to the use and Construction of Fire Arms. By William Greener, author of“ The Gun,’’ etc. With numerous Plates, 15s. cloth. GREENWOOD (COL.)—THE TREE-LIFTER; Or a New Method of Transplanting Trees. By Col.Geo. Greenwood. 8vo.withan Illus- trative Plate,7«- cloth. GUEST.—THE MABINOCION, From the Llyfr Cocli o Hergest, or Red Book of Hergest, and other ancient Welsh MSS. with an English Translation and Notes. By Lady Charlotte Guest. Royal 8vo. 8s. each. Part 1.—The Lady of the Fountain. Part2.—Peredur Ab Evrawc; a Tale of Chivalry. Part 3.—The Arthurian Romance of Geraint, the Son of Erbin. Part 4.—The Romance of Kilhwch and Olwen. Part 5.—The Dream of Rhonabwy, and the Tale of Pwyll Prince of Dyved. Part 6.—Brauwen, the Daughter of Llyr: Manawyddan, the Son of Llyr; and Math, the Son ofMathonwy. GWILT.-AN ENCYCLOP/EDIA OF ARCHITECTURE; Historical, Theoretical, and Practical. By Joseph Gwilt, Esq., F.S.A. Illustrated with upwards of 1000 Engravings on Wood, from Designs by J. S. Gwilt. In 1 thick vol. 8vo. containing nearly 1300 closely-printed pages. 21. 12s. 6rf. cloth. “Gwilt’s Encyclopaedia ranks high as a work for professional students, containing the mathematics of architecture, with copious details upon all the technicalities of the science. It is a work which no professed architect or buildershouldbe without."—Westminster Review. HALL—NEW GENERAL LARGE LIBRARY ATLAS OF FIFTY-THREE MAPS, on Columbier Paper; with the Divisions and Boundaries carefully coloured. Con- structed entirely from New Drawings, and engraved by Sidney Hall. New Edition, thoroughly revised and corrected ; including all the Alterations rendered necessary by the recent Official Surveys, the New Roads on the Continent, and a careful Comparison with the authenticated Discoveries published in the latest Voyages and Travels. Folded in half. Nine Guineas, half- bound in russia; full size of the Maps, Ten Pounds, half-bound in russia. The following Maps have been re-engraved, from entirely new designs — Ireland, South Africa, Turkey in Asia; the following have been materially improved—Switzerland, North Italy, South Italy, Egypt, Central Germany, Southern Germany, Greece, Austria, Spain, and Portugal; a new Map of China, corrected from the recent government survey of the coast from Canton to Nankin (to which is appended the Province of Canton, on an enlarged scale, in a separate compartment), has since been added. HALSTED— LIFE AND TIMES OF RICHARD THE THIRD, as Duke of Gloucester and King of England : in which all the Charges against him are care- fully investigated and compared with the Statements of the Cotemporary Authorities. By Caroline A. Halsted, author of “ The Life of Margaret Beaufort.” 2 vols. 8vo. with Portrait from an Original Picture in the possession of the Right Honorable Lord Stafford, never before engraved, and other Illustrations, If. 10s. cloth. “ We consider Miss Halstead’s work as one of the most interesting and able pieces of history which has ever been presented to the world. Theresearch which it manifests is most extensive, the arrangement clear and lucid, the style always animated and picturesque. Manij new lights are thrown on the career of Richard, many new facts elicited, and the injustice of four centuries vindicated by this intrepid and indefatigable champion of historical truth Metropolitan Magazine. gj-i - "