[CHAP. XXI. MODERN COOKERY. 498 for ten minutes, skim it carefully, and pour it into jars or glasses: if into the latter warm them previously, or the boiling jelly may cause them to break. Barberries, 3 lbs.; water 4\ pints : 15 minutes. Juice alone, 10 minutes. To each pound of juice 1 lb. of sugar: 10 minutes. BARBERRY JAM. (A good Receipt.) The barberries for this preserve should be quite ripe, though they should not be allowed to hang until they begin to decay. Strip them from the stalks, throw aside such as are spotted, and for each pound of the fruit allow eighteen ounces of well-refined sugar; boil this, with one pint of water to every four pounds, until it becomes white, and falls in thick -masses from the spoon; then throw in the fruit, and keep it stirred over a brisk fire for six minutes only; take off the scum, and pour it into jars or glasses. Sugar, 4J lbs.; water, 1 £ pint: boiled to candy height. Bar- berries, 4 lbs.: 6 minutes. BARBERRY JAM. (-Second Receipt.') The preceding is an excellent receipt, but the preserve will be very good if eighteen ounces of pounded sugar be mixed and boiled with the fruit for ten minutes; and this is done at a small expense of time and trouble. Sugar pounded, 2\ lbs.; fruit, 2 lbs.: boiled 10 minutes. VERY COMMON BARBERRY JAM. Weigh the fruit after it has been stripped from the stalks, and boil it for ten minutes over a moderate fire, keeping it stirred all the time; then add to it an equal weight of good Lisbon sugar, and boil the preserve for five minutes. Barberries, 3 lbs.: 10 minutes. Lisbon sugar, 3 lbs.: 5 minutes. Obs.—The small barberry, without stones, must be used for the foregoing receipts, but for those which follow either sort will answer. SUPERIOR BARBERRY JELLY, AND MARMALADE. Strip the fruit from the stems, wash it in spring-water, drain, bruise it slightly, and put it into a clean stone jar, with no more liquid than the drops which hang about it. Place the jar in a pan of water, and steam the fruit until it is quite tender: this will be in from thirty minutes to an hour. Pour off the clear