[CHAP. NYII. MODERN COOKERY. -382 and soaked in a quarter-pint of boiling milk, mix six ounces of suet minced very small, one ounce of dry bread-crumbs, ten ounces of stoned raisins, a little salt, the grated rind of a china- orange, and three eggs, leaving out one white. Boil the pud- ding for two hours, and serve it with very sweet sauce; put no sugar in it VEGETABLE PLUM PUDDING. ( Cheap and good.') Mix well together one pound of smoothly-mashed potatoes, half a pound of carrots boiled quite tender, and beaten to a paste, one pound of flour, one of currants, and one of raisins (fall weight after they are stoned), three quarters of a pound of sugar, eight ounces of suet, one nutmeg, and a quarter- teaspoonful of salt. Put the pudding into a well-floured cloth, tie it closely, and boil it for four hours. The correspondent to whom Ave are indebted for this receipt says, that the cost of the ingredients does not exceed half a crown, and that the pudding is of sufficient size for a party of sixteen persons. We can vouch for its excellence, but as it is rather apt to break when turned out of the cloth, a couple of eggs would perhaps improve it. Sweetmeats, brandy, and spices can be added at pleasure. Mashed potatoes, 1 lb.; carrots, S ozs.; flour, 1 lb.; suet, l lb.; sugar, f lb.; currants and raisins, 1 lb. each ; nutmeg, 1 ; little salt: 4 hours. AN EXCELLENT SMALL MINCEMEAT PUDDING. Pour on an ounce of bread-crumbs sufficient boiling milk to soak them well; when they are nearly cold drain as much of it from them as you can, and mix them thoroughly with half a pound of mincemeat, a dessertspoonful of brandy, and three eggs beaten and strained. Boil the pudding for two hours in a well- buttered basin, which should be full, and serve it with sauce made with a little melted butter, half a glass of white wine, a tablespoonful of brandy, half as much lemon-juice, and sufficient sugar to make it tolerably sweet. Bread-crumbs, 1 oz.; mincemeat, \ lb.; brandy, dessertspoon- ful ; eggs, 3 : 2 hours. THE author’s CHRISTMAS PUDDING. To three ounces of flour, and the same weight of fine, lightly- grated bread-crumbs, add six of beef kidney-Suet, chopped small, six of raisins weighed after they are stoned, six of well-