CHAP. II.] 53 FISH, send them very hot to table with lobster sance, and plain melted butter; or with the caper fish-sauce of Chapter IY. The water should be salted as for salmon boiled in the ordinary way, and the scum should be cleared off with great care after the fish is in. In boiling water, 10 to 15 minutes. SALMON A LA ST. MARCEL. Separate some cold boiled salmon into flakes, and free them entirely from the skin; break the bones, and boil them in a pint of water for half an hour. Strain off the liquor, put it into a clean saucepan and stir into it by degrees when it begins to boil quickly, two ounces of butter mixed with a large teaspoon- ful of flour, and when the whole has boiled for two or three mi- nutes add a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, one of good mushroom catsup, half as much lemon-juice or Chili vinegar, a half saltspoonful of pounded mace, some cayenne, and a very little salt. Shell from half to a whole pint of shrimps, add them to the salmon, and heat the fish very slowly in the sauce by the side of the fire, but do not allow it to boil. When it is very hot, dish, and send it quickly to table. French cooks, when they re-dress fish or meat of any kind, prepare the flesh with great nicety, and then put it into a stewpan, and pour the sauce upon it, which is, we think, better than the more usual English mode of laying it into the boiling sauce. The cold salmon may also be re-heated in the cream sauce of Chapter IY. or in the Maitre d’ Hotel sauce which follows it; and will be found excellent with either. This receipt is for a moderate sized dish. Obs.—We regret that we cannot give insertion to a larger number of receipts for dressing this truly excellent fish, which answers for almost every mode of cookery. It may be fried in cutlets, broiled, baked, roasted, or stewed; served in a common, or in a raised pie, or in a potato-pasty; in a salad, in jelly; collared, smoked, or pickled; and will be found good prepared by any of these processes. A rather full seasoning of savoury herbs is thought to correct the effect of the natural richness of the salmon. For directions to broil, bake, or roast it, the reader is referred to Chapter YII. TO BOIL con PISH. In highest season from October to the beginning of February; in perfection about Christmas. When this fish is large the head and shoulders are sufficient