[CHAP. YI. 148 MODERN COOKERY. herbs, and the yolks of two eggs; poach a small bit when it is mixed, and add any further seasoning it may require; and when it is of good flavour, roll it into balls of moderate size, and boil them twelve minutes; then drain and slip them into the soup. ISTo forcemeat should be boiled in the soup itself, on account of the fat which would escape from it in the process : a little stock should be reserved for the purpose. Very common:—Lean of neck of veal, 4 ozs.; beef-kidney suet, 4 ozs., both finely chopped; bread-crumbs, 3 ozs.; minced parsley, large dessertspoonful; thyme or marjoram, small tea- spoonful ; lean of boiled ham, 1 to 2 ozs.; white pepper, 1 salt- spoonful ; salt, twice as much ; l small nutmeg; eggs, 2 : in balls, 12 minutes. Better forcemeat:—Lean veal rasped, 4 ozs.; fat of unboiled ham, or finest bacon, 3 ozs.; butter, 1 oz.; bread-crumbs, 2 ozs.; lean of boiled ham, minced, 1 large tablespoonful; minced herbs, 1 heaped dessertspoonful: full seasoning of mace, nutmeg, and cayenne, mixed; yolks of eggs, 2:12 minutes. NO. 12. EGG BALLS. Boil four or five new-laid eggs for ten or twelve minutes, and lay them into fresh water until they are cold. Take out the yolks, and pound them smoothly with the beaten yolk of one raw egg, or more, if required; add a little salt and cayenne, roll the mixture into very small balls, and boil them for two minutes. Half a teaspoonful of flour is sometimes worked up with the eggs. Hard yolks of eggs, 4 ; 1 raw; little salt, cayenne : 2 minutes. NO. 13. BRAIN CAKES. Wash and soak the brains .well in cold water, and afterwards in hot; then remove the skin and large fibres, and boil them in water, slightly salted, from two to three minutes; beat them up with a teaspoonful of sage, very finely chopped, or with equal parts of sage and parsley, half a teaspoonful or rather more of salt, half as much mace, a little white pepper or cayenne, and one egg; drop them in small cakes, and fry them a fine light brown: two yolks of eggs will make the cakes more delicate than the white and yolk of one. A teaspoonful of flour and a little lemon-grate are sometimes added. NO* 14. ANOTHER RECEIPT FOR BRAIN CAKES- Boil the brains in a little good veal-gravy very gently for ten minutes j drain them on a sieve, and when cold, cut them into