414 [CHAP. XIX. MODERN COOKERY. KENTISH FRITTERS. Beat up the whites of three eggs and the yolks of six with half a pound of flour, a cupful of milk, and a large teaspoonful of yeast: put the mixture into a jug, cover it, and set it by the fire untii the next day, then add to the batter two large apples finely chopped, and fry the fritters as usual. Whites of eggs, 3 ; yolks, 6 ; flour, 8 ozs.; milk, 1 cupful; yeast, 1 teaspoonful: 24 hours. PLAIN COMMON FRITTERS. Mix with three well-beaten eggs a quarter-pint of milk, and strain them through a fine sieve; add them gradually to three large tablespoonsful of flour, and thin the hatter with as much more milk as will bring it to the consistency of cream; beat it up thoroughly at the moment of using it, that the fritters may be light. Drop it in small portions from a spouted jug or basin into boiling lard; when lightly coloured on one side, turn them, drain them well from the lard as they are lifted out, and serve them very quickly. They are eaten generally with fine sugar, and orange or lemon juice : the first of these may be sifted thickly over them after they are dished, the oranges or lemons cut in two, and sent to table with them. The lard used for frying them should be fresh and pure- flavoured: it renders them more crisp and light than butter, and is, therefore, better suited to the purpose. Eggs, 3; flour, 3 tablespoonsful; milk, \ to \ pint. PANCAKES. These may be made with the same batter as fritters, if it be sufficiently thinned with an additional egg or two, or a little milk or cream, to spread quickly over the pan: to fry them well, this ought to be small. When the batter is ready, heat the pan over a clear fire and rub it with butter in every part, then pour in sufficient batter to spread over it entirely, and let the pancake be very thin: in this case it will require no turning, but otherwise it must be tossed over with a sudden jerk of the pan, in which the cook who is not somewhat expert will not always succeed; therefore the safer plan is to make them so thin that they will not require this. Keep them hot before the fire until a sufficient number are ready to send to table, then proceed with a second supply, as they should always be quickly served. Either roll them up and strew fine sugar