193 CHAP. VIII.] BEEF. add a little mushroom catsup, lemon-juice, eschalot vinegar, or any store sauce that will give a good flavour. Minced herbs are to many tastes an improvement to this dish, to which a small quantity of onion shred fine can be added when it is liked. 6 to 9 minutes. AN EXCELLENT HASH OF COLD BEEF. Put a slice of butter into a thick saucepan, and when it boils throw in a dessertspoonful of minced herbs, and an onion (or two or three eschalots) shred small: shake them over the fire until lightly browned, then stir in a tablespoonful of flour, a little cayenne, some mace or nutmeg, and half a teaspoonful of salt. When the whole is well coloured, pour to it three quar- ters of a pint or more of broth or gravy, according to the quantity of meat to be served in it. Let this boil gently for fifteen minutes; then strain it; add half a wineglassful of mush- room or of compound catsup ; lay in the meat, and keep it by the side of the fire until it is heated through and is on the point of simmering, but be sure not to let it boil. Put some fried or toasted sippets into a very hot dish, and serve the hash directly. A COMMON HASH OF COLD BEEF OR MUTTON. Take the meat from the bones, slice it small, trim off the >rown edges, and stew down the trimmings with the bones well Broken, an onion, a bunch of thyme and parsley, a carrot cut into thick slices, a few peppercorns, four cloves, some salt, and a, pint and a half of water. When this is reduced to little more than three quarters of a pint, strain it, clear it from the fat, thicken it with a large dessertspoonful of rice flour, or rather less of arrow-root; add salt and pepper if needed, boil the whole for a few minutes, then lay in the meat and heat it well. Boiled potatoes are sometimes sliced hot into a very common hash. Obs.—The cook should be reminded that if the meat in a hash or mince be allowed to boil, it will immediately become hard, and can then only be rendered eatable by very long stewing, which is by no means desirable for meat which is already sufficiently done. BRESLAW OF BEEF. (Good.) Trim the brown edges from half a pound of underdressed roast beef, shred it small, and mix it with four ounces of fine bread-crumbs, a teaspoonful of minced parsley, and two-thirds o