SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [part VIII. 320 7. Ti'catiiieiit ol tlic Pe«licle.—The cyst having been drawn without the abdomen, nothing remains but to deal with the pedicle, which, in an uncomplicated case, now occupies the lower angle of the incision. In the majority of cases the pedicle is long, free, and tolerably broad. It is easily recognised by the Fallopian tube, which marks its upper or inner border (Fig. 90). The pedicle is secured by ligatures. The best material for the ligature is silk. Many surgeons use and strongly recommend kangaroo tendon. If silk be used it should be no thicker than is consistent with sufficient strength not to break in tying the knots. In dealing with the pedicle, a rule should be observed which should -apply to every abdominal operation—a ligature should never be so ajjplied as to include undivided peritoneum. Exceptions to this important rule are very few, and are represented by such measures as the ligatui’ing of Omentum and the seeming of certain adhesions. Before any ligature is applied, the peritoneum should be divided. The procedure is well illustrated by the treat- ment of the ovarian pedicle. The pedicle is as well dis- played as is jiossible, and then with a small scalpel the serous membrane is divided completely on both sides of the pedicle in the line the ligature will follow. The subserous connective tissue in the pedicle is thus displayed, and gaps in the membrane are made evident, or are capable of being made evident. By enlarging these gaps the individual factors of the pedicle are isolated, the pedicle is reduced in bulk, and the separate parts ai’e ligatured cleanly and precisely. A pedicle needle is not needed, as the ligatures are passed through the gaps made. I use three ligatures, one for the Fallopian tube, one for the ovarian ligament and tissues about it, and one for the pampiniform plexus and artery. These ligatures will not slip, whereas ligatures which embrace undivided peritoneum will often slip. The division of the peritoneum, moreover, undoubtedly saves much after-pain. The knot tied should be a double reef or surgeon’s knot, and the threads should be drawn as tightly as possible.