[part vm. SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 370 English rubber catheter, a few inches of which are then passed into the cavity. Tlie stitcli is then tied so as to fix the catheter witliout constricting its lumen, and the pouch invaginated for half an inch or so. A second continuous suture (passed into the rubber) is then introduced, as shown in Fig. 105, which prevents the tube from slipping and maintains a valvular fold of the whole stomach wall. The rubber tube can be attached when required to a glass funnel. Feeding with small quantities of milk, strong beef- tea, etc., is begun with caution as soon after the operation as thought advisable, the tube remaining in for several days, and being subsequently introduced from time to time. If care be observed, there is practically no risk of any extravasation taking place during the feeding ; and even if it be assumed that the peritoneal cavity is not securely sealed, there is still no difficulty in preventing such an accident. If it be determined to effect an opening into the stomach within a few hours of the first operation, the mode of suturing above described will be found to suffice. The attachment of the viscus to the parietes may in such case be rendered doubly secure by a series of fine silk sutures which are inter- posed between the main stitches, and which concern only the parietal peritoneum and the outer coats of the stomach. The actual opening of the stomach is a very simple matter. It is painless, and no anjesthetic is required. In- deed, if the condition of the patient does not warrant a general amesthetic being given, all the steps of the opera- tion may be carried out under cocaine. II. — GASTROTOMY. This term is applied to the operation of opening the stomach for the purpose of removing a foreign body, or for exploration. There is no need to attempt to bring about an artificial distension of the stomach before the operation. 'I'lic Operjitioii.—The parietal incision may be made in the same position as is advised in gastrostomy, with this