CHAP. II. ] OVARIOTOMY. 317 At the earliest possible opportunity the position and state of the uterus should be made out The possibility of pregnancy in cases of supposed ovarian disease should never be lost sight of. It is possible also that the reputed ovarian tumour may be uterine. 3. Dciiioiistratioii of Adliesioiis.—Assuming the case to be a straightforward one of ovarian cyst, the tumour should be allowed to project into the wound. The lingers or hand may be passed round the cyst to ascertain if any adhesions exist, and to estimate their character. During such examination the lighter forms of adhesion may readily be broken down as the Ungers pass gently over * the surface of the growth. If firmer adhesions are found to exist, they must be fully demonstrated. Adhesions of all kinds are more readily to be dealt with before the tumour has been emptied by tapping. By attempting to break down adhesions after the cyst has been emptied, a portion of adherent bowel may be torn, the flaccid cy.st wall and the bowel being difficult to distinguish from one another. 4. Tapping: of flic Cyst*—Before actually introduc- ing'the trocar, a sponge may be inserted between the cyst wall and the lower angle of the incision, in order to absorb any fluid which may escape. The cyst is steadied by the surgeon’s left hand while the trocar is driven into its wall. In order to bring the walls well up to the hooks on the trocar, the plain volsella may be used; or the assistant may drag the cyst wail up within the grasp of the hooks as the tumour becomes more flaccid. The volsella is apt to make holes in the cyst, through which fluid may escape. Traction upon the cyst should never be made through the hooks on the trocar alone. These hooks are more for the purpose of holding the cyst wall against the cannula. “ After the first cavity has been emjitied, a second, a third, and more, if necessary, may be tapped successively, without removing the cannula from its hold, merely by pushing the trocar forward and