SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [part III. 152 In removing the lower ends of the tibia and fibula the greater part of the anterior and posterior tibio-fibular ligaments, together with the interosseous ligament, are saved, while the transverse or inferior ligament is cut away with the bones. ■ iisti’iiiiiciits.—A stout narrow knife, with a blade three inches long, a narrow but rounded point, and a large strong handle; a scalpel; a saw; two metal retractors to hold back the flaps when sawing the leg bones; lion forceps; pressure forceps; artery and dissecting forceps, scissors, etc. Position.—The patient lies on the back, with the foot projecting beyond the end of the table and the toes pointing upwards. The surgeon sits facing the end of the table. The lower end of the leg is raised on a Volkmann’s pelvic support to the level of the surgeon’s face. The surgeon sits to cut the heel flap, and stands to cut the dorsal flap and to disarticulate. Two assistants stand facing the surgeon, one on each side of the end of the table. One steadies the foot, the other attends to the wound. Tlie Operation.—An assistant steadies the leg with one hand, and holds the foot—by the toes—rigidly at a right angle to the leg with the other hand. 1. The Heel Flap.—The incision starts from the tip of the outer malleolus, and in a line nearer to its posterior than its anterior border. It is canned vertically down the heel, exactly at right angles to the long axis of the foot, runs transversely across the sole, and passing up vertically on the inner side of the heel, ends at a point about half an inch below the tip of the inner malleolus (Fig. 49, d). In making this incision, supposing the right foot to be operated on, the surgeon holds the ankle mth the palm of his left hand on the dorsum of the foot, his thumb being on the outer malleolus and his forefinger on the inner malleolus. Entering the knife at tlie inner starting-point, the incision is carried down to the sole and then across the plantar aspect of the os calcis at one cut. The knife is now re-entei’ed at the outer starting-point, and is carried down