CHAP. VII.] 345 ENTEROTOMY. The gut should not be twisted from its natural position —that is to say, the spontaneous direction it has assumed should be preserved. Tlie wound in the abdominal parietes is now partly closed by means of silkworm-gut sutures which are intro- duced at the two extremities of the wound. The bowel will occupy the centre of the wound, and a sufficient number of sutures (two probably on either side) must be introduced to fix the gut in place by the mere narrowing of the parietal incision. The sutures must include all the tissues forming the parietes, together with the peritoneum. The latter membrane should be brought as near to the cut margin of the skin as is possible. It will be found that a curved Hagedorn’s needle of large size is the most convenient for mtroducing the sutures. The wall of the bowel is now rapidly stitched to the margin of the skin, which tightly surrounds it on all sides. Very fine silk, passed by means of a small curved needle held in a holder, is best adapted for this purpose. The stitches should involve the skin and the serous and muscular coats of the bowel. Care should be taken not to open the actual lumen of the gut with the needle. In cases of great distension this is not easy. To save time, two operators may be engaged simultaneously upon this stage of the procedure. A Paul’s glass-tube of small calibre is now taken ujd and the diameter mentally marked on the intestine. A purse-string suture is then made to circumscribe,the area to be incised, both ends of the suture being left long. With a tenotome or fine scalpel the intestine is opened within the area, one edge of the wound held aside with tine forceps, and tlie tube introduced. The suture is now tied firmly round tlie groove in the tube ; the latter is packed round with sterilised gauze, the distal end of the tube being provided with a long and thin rubber tube along which the contents as they escape can be conveyed into a receptacle containing a disinfectant. A large dressing of cotton-wool held in place by a bandage completes the operation. The