339 CHAP. V.] RESECTION OF INTESTINE. III. — ENTEKECTO.MV WITH THE ESTAULISHMENT OF AX ARTIFICIAL ANU.S. The early steps of the operation are as cleseribed in Section I. (pj). 335 et seq.). The removal of a triangular piece of the mesentery facili- tates the subsequent closure of the artificial anus. The gap left in the mesentery should be united by suture, as described. After the excision has been carried out, the wound in the' parietes is so far closed as to leave only a gap through which the divided ends of the gut project. The two sections of bowel—still clamped—should be brought together by their mesenteric borders, and are united by a few points of suture. If time and the condition of the patient allow, the union of the two ends may be carried a little to either side of the mesenteric border. The mucous membrane over the uniting isthmus should be brought together by a simple continuous suture. This partial union of the gut greatly facilitates the operation for the subsequent closure of the fecal fistula. The lower end of the divided bowel is now rapidly united to the parietes. The margin of the bowel is secured all round to the mai’gin of the parietal wound. The serous covering of the intestine must be brought into contact with the serous lining of the abdominal wall. The main sutures may be passed before the clamp is removed, and may be drawn tight and secured when the clamp is withdrawn. The upper end of the bowel is dealt with in the same way. Every preparation must be made for a rush of fiecal matter as soon as the upper clamp is removed. The main sutures will be in place befoi’e the clamp is withdrawn. A plug of wool in the lumen of the gut will very often serve to keep the wound dry. The intestinal contents may be received upon a layer of oiled lint, which is frequently changed. A Paul’s glass tube may be used with advantage in each end of the bowel. IV. METHODS OF UNITING SEGMENTS OP UNEQUAL SIZE. The bowel above the segment resected may be much dilated, while the tube below is much contracted. In such