[part I. 48 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. sartorius, and the one muscle may be mistaken for the other. Their fibres, however, run in opposite directions, those of the vastus downwards and outwards, those of the sartorius downwards and inwards. 'The incision may Ijb made too low down, and the popliteal artery be reached. In making the skin wound carelessly the internal saphenous vein has been cut into. The whitish tendon of the adductor magnus has been mistaken for the artery in the dead subject. Farabeuf recommends that as soon as the sartorius muscle has been drawn aside, the thigh should be well abducted and rotated out, so as to bring into prominence a tendinous cord—la corcle qui vibre—which is derived from the lower fibres of the adductor longus, and is passing to the general adductor insertion. This cord helps to define the canal, and the incision is made first to its outer side. 2. of flic Stiperflcinl Fcmornl ;it tlic Apex of Scai'pii’s Triniig^lc. Operation.—The limb is placed in the position already indicated, and the line of the artery is marked out. An incision, three inches in length, is made along this line as it crosses the apex of Scarpa’s triangle. The centime of the wound should coiTespond to the apex, and tlie incision, therefore, will reach to within one and a half or two inches of Poupart’s ligament. A large tributary of the internal saphenous vein will usually be exposed, and if it cannot be drawn easily aside it should be divided between two ligatures. The fascia lata having been divided in the original line, the sartorius is exposed at the outer part and inferior end of the wound, its fibi’es running downwards and inwards. Its inner border should be well isolated, and the whole muscle is then drawn outwards. The operator now feels for the groove of the artery. In front of the vessel will be found branches of the internal cutaneous nerve, and deeper and to its outer side are the long saphenous nerve, and, possibly, the nerve to the vastus internus (Fig- 22).