SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 32 [part I. befoi'e the operation is commenced. Tn male subjects the skin of the submaxillary region should be shaved. Operation.—An incision, some two inches in length, and with the convexity downwai’ds, is made between the lower jaw and the hyoid bone. The wound commences a little below and to the outer side of the symphysis, and ends a little below and to the inner side of the point where the facial artery crosses the lower margin of the maxilla. Its centre is just above the greater cornu of the hyoid bone (Fig. 14). On the right side the incision is made from behind forwards, on the left side from-before backwards. The integuments, platysma, and superficial fascia are divided in the line of the incision. Certain superficial veins will be encountered, and some will probably have to be secured. These veins are the submental or other tributary of the facial, or some ti'ibutary of the anterior jugular. It will now be convenient to apply ligature retractors, in order that the depths of the wound may be well laid open. The next step is to fully expose the submaxillary gland. It is lodged in a special compartment of the cervical fascia. This fascia should be opened transversely over the lower part of the gland, and the organ should be cleared and brought well out into the wound by means of the finger and tlie handle of a scalpel. The gland should be turned upwards on to the margin of the jaw, and be kept out of the operation area by means of a broad and well-curved retractor held by the chief assistant. The fascia exposed by the lifting out of the salivary gland is now to be divided transversely, and in the anterior angle of the wound the posterior edge of the mylo-hyoid muscle must be sought for and defined. The digastric tendon and the two bellies of the muscle are now to be brought clearly into view. Around the tendon, where it is nearest to the hyoid bone, a small blunt hook with a very long shaft or handle is to be passed and held by the assistant who stands at the surgeon’s side. The tendon should be drawn downwards and towards the surface.