AMPUTATIONS. 197 CHAP. XVIII.] No tourniquet of any kind is employed. The aorta or externa] iliac should be compressed by an assistant. Instruments.—A pointed amputating knife, having a length equal to one and a half times the diameter of the limb at the level of the hip. Artery forcejis. Ten or fifteen pressure forceps. Scissor.s, needles, etc. Position.—The patient is supine, and the l)uttocks rest upon the extreme edge of the table. The sound limb is secured out of the way. The surgeon stands to the outer side of the limb in the case of both the right and the left extremity. One assistant stands above the operator. His duty is to attend to the anterior flap, to compress the main vessels as the flap is being cut, and to hold it out. of the way during the disarticulation. A second assistant stands opposite to the sui'geon to assist generally, and to seize any bleeding points as soon as the limb is separated. A third helper may stand near the patient’s shoulders (on the opposite side), to steady the 2'>elvis and prevent the body from slipping off the table. The fourth assistant mani- pulates the limb. This office is of exceeding importance. The rapidity with which the disarticulation can be effected depends largely upon the smartness of this assistant. The limb is made to assume a different iiosition at each step of the operation. (1) The limb is a little flexed and a little abducted. The knife is entered midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the top of the great trochanter, is thrust through the limb parallel with Poupart’s ligament, and is brought out at the inner side of the thigh behind the ad- ductor longus, about one inch in front and one inch below the tuber ischii, and some three inches from the anus. The knife should graze the head of the femur in its pas- sage, and just open the hip capsule. It is passed, therefore, as deeply as possible. If reasonable care be not taken, the knife may slice the femoral vessels, or may be arrested by the femur, or may enter the thyroid foramen, or may have its jioint driven into the testicle or the thigh of the opposite side.