CHAP. III.] URETHROTOMY. 441 “stretched open at three points, and the operator looks into it immediately in front of the stricture. While thus held open, a probe-pointed director is inserted into the urethra, and the operator, if he cannot see the opening of the stricture—which is often possible—generally succeeds in very cpiickly finding it, and passes the point onwards through the stricture towai’ds the bladder. The stricture is sometimes hidden amongst a crop of granulations or warty growths, in the midst of which the probe-point easily finds the true passage. The director having been passed into the bladder (its entrance into which is clearly demon- strated by the freedom of its movements), its groove is turned downwards, the whole length of the stricture is carefully and deliberately divided on its under- surface, and the passage is thus cleared. The director is still held in the same position, and a straight probe- pointed bistoury is run along the groove, to ensure com- plete division of all bands or other obstructions. These being thoroughly cleared, the old difficulty of directing the point of a catheter through the divided stricture and on- wai'ds into the bladder is to be overcome. To effect this, the point of a Teale’s probe goi-get is introduced into the groove in the director, and, guided by it, is passed on- wards into the bladder, dilating the divided stricture and form- ing a metallic floor, along which the point of the catheter cannot fail to pass securely into the bladder. The entry of the gorget into the latter viscus is signalised by an im- mediate gush of urine along it. A silver catheter (No. 10 or 11) is now passed from the meatus down into the wound, is made to 2?ass once or twice through the divided urethra, whei'e it can be seen in the wound, to render certain the fact that no obstructing bands have been left undivided, and is then, guided by the probe-dilator, passed easily and certainly along the jiosterior part of the urethra into the bladder. The gorget is now withdrawn, the catheter fastened in the urethra, and allowed to remain for three or four days, an elastic tube conveying the urine away. After three or four days the catheter is removed, and is then passed daily, or eveiy second or third day, according to