257 CHAP. XV.] EXCISION OF LOWER JAW. With a periosteal elevator or mgiiie the muscles attached to the external surface of the maxilla are rapidly separated from the bone, and are turned up with the in- teguments in the form of a Hip. The separation is com- menced at the symphysis, and carried backwards. The ljuccinator and inasseter are peeled off from the bone in this part of the operation. The mental and masseteric arteries, together with some smaller branches, are divided at this stage. It is desirable that the operator should kee[) close to the bone. The cavity of the moutli is now opened by dividing the buccal mucous membrane at its junction witli the alveolus. 2. The surgeon now extracts one of the incisor teeth-^- the lateral incisor, as a rule—and with a keyhole saw divides the jaw vertically in the line of the gap. It is often more convenient to saw the bone nearly through, and then to complete the section with suitable bone-cutting forceps. More or less of the genio-hyoicl, genio-hyo-glossus, and digastric muscles will be disturbed in clearing the inner surface of the bone. 3. The anterior extremity of the divided maxilla is now drawn outwards, and with a blunt-pointed knife kept close to the bone the surgeon divides the attachment of the mylo-hyoid muscle. The internal pterygoid muscle is reached, and may be conveniently separated from the bone by means of a periosteal elevator. The lower border of the maxilla is twisted outwards, in order that the whole of the attachment of the internal pterygoid muscle may be dealt with. The inferior dental artery and nerve are exposed and divided. In this part of the operation care must be taken to avoid injury to the sublingual and subraaxillary glands. 4. The anterior part of the jaw is now forcibly depressed, in order to bring the coronoid process into view in the posterior part of the wound. The tendon of the temporal muscle is divided with scissors curved on the Hat as each part of the fibres of insertion is successively reached. J