AMPUTATIONS. 107 CHAP. V.] the antevo-posterior diameter at the point of section, the posterior flap about one-half as long. The flaps are U-shaped, and the lateral incisions corre- spond to the lateral margins of the limbs. The anterior flap Avill contain the sui^inator longus and the flexor muscles. The posterior flap will contain the extensors. In the radial incision the vertical cut will involve the two extensors of the radial side of the carpus. In the lateral ulnar wound the flexor profundus and the flexor carpi ulnaris are found to be marked by tlie vertical incision. The hand having been supinated, the anterior flap is niarked out by a skin-cut. In the case of the right limb, the knife is entered at the commencement of the ulnar incision, is carried down along the ulnar border, and is then made to sweep transversely across the flexor surface of the limb. The knife being \v?ithdrawn, its point is entered at the upper end of the radial incision, and is carried down along the radial border of the forearm to meet the first incision. The flap is marked out, therefore, by two cuts, and the incision is commenced on the side more remote from the surgeon. In the left limb the knife is first entei’ed upon the radial border. The elbow being now flexed so that the forearm is vertical (the baud being still supine), the posterior flap is marked out in the integuments only. The skin thus fashioned for the future flaps is allowed to retract. The forearm is now again held horizontally, with the elbow a little flexed and the hand still supine. The operator lifts up the tissues on the front of the limb with the fingers of the left hand, and proceeds to transfix. The knife is entered at tliQ angle of the wound nearest to the surgeon, and is made to follow as accurately as possible the curves of the bones and the interosseous membrane. Its point should just graze the bones as it moves across the limb. While the assistant extends the hand, the surgeon cuts a muscular flap from within outwards, bringing the knife out sharjoly just at the level of the retracted .skin. The posterior flaj) is cut by transfixion in the same way, the limb being held in the same posture. It is diflicult to