CHAP. XII,] 393 NEPHRO-Ll THOTOM Y. frequently advisable to encroach on the renal tissue, in which case the wound should radiate from the hiluin parallel with the main vessels. It should not he forgotten that a branch of renal artery or vein is often present behind the jjelvis, and care should be taken to avoid this if jjossible. The plan of entering the pelvis through a wound made through the outer border of the kidney is not to be commended. As shown in Fig. 110, such an incision must pass through a considerable thickness of the gland, and will probably divide several important vessels ; in fact, the haemorrhage following “ bisection of the kidney ” has in some cases ne- cessitated nephrectomy, and even led to the patient’s death. The idea on which section through the cortex is based is that such wounds heal more readily than those made through the pelvis ; but the latter, whether sutured or not, soon close up. As a general rule, the incision should run in the dotted line A in Fig. 110, or a continuation of it. Such an opening is well adapted for exploring the whole of the pelvis with finger or sound. Of course, if the skia- graph has revealed a small-calculus near the cortex and far from the pelvis, the surgeon should cut down directly over it. With x’egard to the removal of the stone, a pair of small lithotomy forceps, or a scoop aided by the surgeon’s finger, will answer the best. The object of the surgeon should be to remove, if pos- sible, the calculus without breaking it, and with the inflic- tion of the minimum of injury to the pelvis or the renal substance. If, however, the stone be large and irregularly branched, it may be found necessary to break it up into two or more fragments, and to remove them separately, so as to avoid undue laceration of the kidney. Such removal should be followed by a free irrigation of the part with warm sterilised water. If tlie case and the operation be uncomplicated, the wound made in the pelvis of the kidney should be closed by ’ a series of very fine silk sutures. 3. Cio^iiro of file Wound.—If the incision in the kidney be sutured, then the parietal wound may be entirely