SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [part IX. 408 Ill other cases more bowel may be drawn down from the abdomen, and the reduction may then be directed in the line in which the withdrawal of the intestine appears to be the more easily effected. If the bowel be much distended, that part nearest to the ring can often be emptied of some portion of its con- tents by judicious manipulation. Any flakes of lymph that may be disturbed in handling the gut should be washed away with warm sterile water. After the reduction the finger should be passed through the ring into the abdomen, to make sure that all is clear. The sac is now washed out. If any omentum exists in the hernia, it must be dealt with as its condition demands. If it appears healthy, is small in amount, and is quite free from adhesions, it may be reduced. Nothing better can be done for it. In the majority of cases, however, it will need to be removed. It will be found to be altered in structure, to be inflamed, or to be matted into a granular kind of mass, or to be adherent. Small portions may be ligatured en masse with one cat- gut ligature, and then cut off*. Larger portions are most con- veniently dealt with by passing a series of loops of catgut by means of an aneurysm needle, each loop enclosing one or more omental vessels. Fine catgut may be used, but each loop must be securely knotted, a treble knot being the safest. When the expanded portion of the omentum has been excised below the ligatures the latter should be in- spected and cut short before returning the stump into the abdomen. The risk of a ligature slipping is avoided by making each include only a small part of the omental neck. It is well to remember that, how'ever large the protruded mass may be, it will have a comparatively slender neck. The reduction of the stump of the omentum should be in every case complete. It should be returned quite free into the abdomen. No part should be left either in the sac or in its neck. 3. Treatment of tlie Sac and Closure of flie Woiindt—In very severe cases, in which the patient