479 PART XIV.] EXCISION OF THE BREAST. up together with a mass of tliesui-roundiug tissue, (jl) The wound should not be scrubbed with a sponge. It barely needs to be sponged at all. (3) Sterilised water should be used to wash the wound. It should be cleansed by washing and not by sponging. A kidney-shaped i-eceiver is placed beneath the wound, and a stream of warm sterilised water is allowed to run over the raw surface until all clots have been washed away. The bleeding points are now dealt with. In the majority of cases the long-continued pressure of the forceps will suffice to close the larger number of the vessels, others are occluded by twisting the pressure forceps when they are removed. But as recurrent hemorrhage is more common after excision of the breast than any other operation, it is best to tie every doubtful vessel with catgut or fine silk. When this has been done and the cavity has been fiushed with warm sterile water, the long wound is sewn up. The needles employed are straight and long, and the sutures are of silkworm gut. The upper and lower sutures are applied first, the middle ones being left to the last. The sutures are not tied until the upper and lower series are completed. They are then knotted, and the assistant follows the closing wound with sponges, so applied as to maintain considerable pressure over the recently-united incision, and to obliterate the wound cavity. This pressure must not be relaxed. In a few cases an opening for a drainage-tube i.s now made in the hollow of the skin below the wound. A tube is inserted and secured by a suture. The drainage-tube can easily be dispensed with, and it appears to increase the risk of sujjpuration. The middle sutures—i.e., thosQ in the central part of the wound —are now inserted and, when they are all in place, tied. The assistant with the sponges still follows the sutured incision, and obliterates by pressure the wound cavity. The dressing is prepared. It consists of a lai'ge pad of sterilised gauze or dry cyanide gauze, over which sterilised wool is used. The wool covers the whole side of the chest, the opposite breast, the shoulder, and the back as far as the spine.