’M) CHAP. XII.] ABDOMINAL NEPHRECTOMY. and forcep.s, and with the forceps and the blunt dissector. On the right side tlie very close iDOsition of the vena cava must be borne in mind. Adhesions may render this part of the operation very difficult. E. The pedicle is now tied in segments. The ureter is first isolated, and is at once severed between two strong silk ligatures. To the lower ligature a pair of pressure forceps are attached as a guide. The vessels of the pedicle are nosv tied separately or in small bundles by means of fine silk. The arteries are secured before the veins. An aneurysm needle is useful at this stage. The tension on the pedicle is relaxed as the ligatures are drawn tight. Before the pedicle is divided one or more clamps may be applied to the pedicle tissues on the proximal side of the ligatures. F. The pedicle it now cut through with scissors. To prevent an escape of blood from the kidney, the vessels may be clamped on the kidney side of the intended line of section. The kidney is now free, and is removed. The surgeon then x’eturns to the pedicle stump. He re- moves any clamp forceps which may be in position, and applies additional ligatures if necessary. G. The surgeon now seeks for the divided ureter. If it be healthy, nothing remains but to cut the ligature on it short, and di-op it back. If it be dilated or contain pus, as much of the tube as can be cut away should be removed. It should be ligatured, and the cut end exposed beyond the ligature should be very vigorously scraped with a Volk- mann’s spoon. It may be necessary to examine the ureter for a calculus, and to remove such calculus if found. I have met with no instance in which it appeared to be necessary to bring out the divided ends of the ureter through an incision in the loin. No circumstances would justify the bringing of the divided end of the ureter out at the anterior abdominal incision. The cavity left by the removal of the kidney is well cleaned out, and if any septic matter is likely to have found its way into it, the whole cavity is well washed out with a weak and warm antiseptic solution. When the operator has convinced himself that all oozing has ceased, and that