[PAKT VIII. 312 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. atrophied from disuse, the result of tlie adhesion, and a per- foration of sucli damaged intestine is quite possible. Exten- sively adherent intestine will be found to have very attenu- ated walls, and to be most readily torn. Adherent omentum can be dealt with in considerable sections. The adhesions may be peeled off with the finger. Portions, of the thickness of the forefinger, may be included in one ligature. It is more satisfactory, however, in deal- ing with omentum, to ligature the individual vessels with silk whenever practicable. The method adopted must depend upon the vascularity of the tissue. In some cases, where much traction has been exercised uf)on the epiploon, its cut surface will scarcely bleed at all. On the other hand, when an ovarian cyst, with a twisted pedicle, is obtaining its chief or sole blood supply from omental adhesions, the vascularity of the tissue is often considerable. Adhesions may in some cases be so dense, so close, and so extensive that they have to be divided by the scalpel by extensive incisions. It must be borne in mind, however, that such adhesions have sometimes but a slight vascularity, and that they can be often divided without remarkable bleeding. Indeed, I have observed that the hsemorrhage from a surface exposed by such division is usually not so considerable as that from the area exposed by tearing down soft recent adhesions with the finger. Still, these dense at- tachments must always be regarded with the greatest respect. In many instances when an organ, such as a cyst or a diseased vermiform appendix, is so very adherent as to be' described as buried or lost in adhesions, it is well to ignore at first the actual adhesions and to divide the peritoneum at some little distance from the adlierent organ, so as to open the subserous tissue. The finger is introduced into this lax tissue, and the separation of the organ is carried out sub- peritoneally, the adhesions being divided upon the finger (introduced beneath them) as soon as they are well isolated. Whenever practicable, it is desirable that a very ad- herent structure should be first of all approached by the subperitoneal route. When no inflammatory adhesions exist, but when the tumour or cyst has, in enlarging, made