ABDOMINAL SECTION. 311 CHAP. I.] “ sequestrated ” or sewn over. A Lembert’s suture is made to traverse the peritoneum on either side of the bleeding area, and when the suture is drawn tight the bleeding surface is covered over. When the area is large a fine needle, carrying silk, is made to pass beneath the bleeding surface, and when this buried suture is drawn tight the surface is constricted and turned in. This may be called “sewing in” as compared with “sewing over,” when peritoneum is employed. Great care should be taken in dealing with deep pelvic adhesions. They can be exposed by the use of ivory spatuhe, and in demonstrating their character and attachments reflected light from a mirror or the electric lamp is very useful. Adhesions to the bowel and to the bladder must be gently dealt with. When slender, they can be readily stripped off by means of a sponge. When dense and ex- tensive, it is better to clamp the adhesion, to cut it through at some little distance from the viscus, and to ligature it in situ. In separating adhesions from bowel, it is easy to tear away the serous coat and to expose or even tear the muscular coat. Such false membranes are pi’obably nourished from the viscus to which they are attached, and I have seen no harm to follow from leaving quite considei’- able masses of such tissue attached to intestine. In cases where a portion of cyst wall is firmly attached to the bowel, it is very undesirable to make persistent attemj^tsto separate the two. It is far better to cut away the cyst, leaving the adherent portion still attached to the bowel. Such attached portion may be reduced to the smallest dimensions, by dis- secting off as many laminte as possible, and be allowed to remain as a permanent appendage to the gut. In many cases I have left a considerable portion of the cyst wall still attached to the bowel. It should be borne in mind that, in endeavouring to free the intestine of firm adhesions, it is very much easier to tear the bowel than to tear the false membrane. Moreover, such attempted separations, even when they do not tear the gut, are apt to strip off a great deal of its peritoneal coat. The muscular coat beneath is probably