CHAP. XVIII.] AMPUTATIONS. 191 tourniquet and supports the flap during the ligaturing of the vessels after the tourniquet has been removed. Another assistant manipulates tlie limb, while a third, standing opposite to the surgeon, attends to the sponging and assists in the disarticulation, in the fashioning of the flaps, and in securing the vessels. The Operation.—(1) The limb being adducted and a little flexed and rotated in, the knife is entered about two inches above the upper edge of the great trochanter, and is carried vertically clown the limb along the posterior liorder of the trochanter for about seven inches. The knife is now drawn across the limb in front and behind in the form of two crescentic incisions, which meet on the inner side of tlie thigh some little way below the termination of the vertical incision, and some inches below the genito- crural angle. The whole of this extensive cut should at first involve only the skin and the subcutaneous tissues. At the outer aspect of the limb the incisions form a large inverted Y. While the oblique incision is being made, the assistant may rotate the thigh a little so as to make the tissues meet the surgeon’s knife. (2) The surgeon now turns to the oblique incision encircling the thigh, and separates the skin and subcutaneous tissues all round until these parts have been raised to the extent of about two inches. This is effected precisely as in the ordinary circular operation, the limb being rotated as required. (3) The thigh being being now again adducted, rotated in, and a little flexed, the knife is carried well down to the femur along the whole length of the vertical incision. The muscles attached to the great trochanter must next be divided close to the bone. The anterior, superior, and posterior borders of the trochanter should be cleared in order. The first muscle to be divided is the gluteus medius, attached to the outer surface of the process. The obturator externus tendon is apt to escape division as it dips into the digital fossa. In clearing the process the limb must be kept extremely adducted and well rotated in. A short stout knife—such as is used in Syme’s amputation or in