143 CHAP. XI.] AMPUTATIONS. all the soft parts down to the bones. These are dissected up by short transverse cuts with the knife while the operator pulls back the flap. The separation is carried back as far as the line of the tarso-iuetatarsal articulations. The exposure of the peroneus longus will indicate when this line is reached. The tendon should for the present be left uncut. 3. The Disarticulation.—Return to the dorsum. Grasp the foot with the left hand and extend it fully. Let an assistant hold back the dorsal flap with one hand while by means of a metal spatula he retracts and protects the jilantar flap with the other. ‘Enter the knife just behind the tubercle of the fifth metatarsal bone, and, cutting obliquely forwards and inwards, open the tarsal joints of the three outer metatarsal bones. In this manoeuvre the tendons of the peronei brevis and tertius are divided. Now turn to the inner side of the foot, and open the joint between the first metatarsal and the inner cuneiform, cutting at the same time the tibialis anticus expansion. In the next place, open the joint between the second metatarsal and the middle cuneiform on its dorsal asj)ect. The complete separation of the metatarsal bone is difficult, and is thus eflected : Hold the knife like a trocar and— keeping it nearly parallel with the dorsum of the foot— thrust the point in deeply between the bases of the first and second metatarsal bones (Fig. 45) until it is arrested by bone. The edge is turned towards the ankle. Now grasp the knife in the hand like a dagger, and elevate the handle until it is perpendicular to the dorsum of the foot, at the same time cutting in the direction of the external malleolus (Fig. 46). By this manoeuvre (the coitp de maitre) the strong ligament of Lisfranc is severed. Divide any remaining ligaments, especially those on the plantar aspect of the joints, and finally the metatarsus is left attached only by means of the peroneus longus tendon. Draw this tendon out, and cut it at the outer angle of the incision, and the parts to be removed are free. Left Foot.—Commence the dor.sal and plantar incisions on the inner side of the foot. In disarticulating, open first