SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [part X. 432 and the posterior part of the anus, and one-third nearer to the tuberosity than to the gut. The incision will in the adult be about three inches in length. It becomes gradually shallower and shallower as it proceeds outwards and backwards from the median line. Second or Deej) Incision.—The left forefinger is now introduced into the wound and the staff felt for. This in- strument will be perpendicular in position, and well drasvn up against the pubic arch. The surgeon, keeping his eye upon the staff, to ajjj^i'e- ciate its position in the depths of the perineum, slips the knife along the back of the forefinger until it hits the groove in the staff. There must be no doubt at this stage of the operation. The surgeon must be assured beyond question that he has found the groove, and that the knife occupies it. The knife is now pushed cautiously along the groove until it reaches the end of the staff and enters the bladder. The blade should be inclined laterally as it is passed along, and be kept parallel with the line of the surface wound. The incision made in the prostate will therefore be oblique, and directed downwards and outwards. An escape of urine and a sense of abruptly diminished resistance will announce that the neck of the bladder has" been divided. Entering of the Bladder.—The left index finger'is noAV introduced along the groove in the staff into the bladder. As soon as the surgeon is sure that he has his finger in the viscus, but not before, the staff is removed. The finger is then employed in dilating the neck of the bladder in all directions, and in ascertaining the size and situation of the stone. The opening made by dilatation will have to accommo- date itself to the size of the stone. The dilatation must be made in all directions, and not only in the line of the wound. Extraction of the Stone.—Without removing tlie left forefinger the surgeon inti’oduces the lithotomy forceps along the upper or dorsal surface of the digit, and only