42 SimaWAL OPERATIONS. [parti. armed witli retractor.s, .stand.s on tlie o]»po.situ side of tlie table. An incision, four indies in length, is made in the middle third of the leg, parallel to the inner margin of the tibia and three-quarters of an inch behind that crest of bone (Fig. 18). The skin having been divided, care must be taken not to wound the internal saphenous vein, which should be drawn a.side. The deep lascia—the fibres of which are all transverse—is exposed and divided. In a muscular subject the margin of the gasti'ocnemius may be seen. The soleus is now exposed, and must be divided through the length of the incision. The aponeui’osis of the muscle is cut through, together with the fleshy fibres attached \o it. In making this section- the knife should be kept per- pendicular to the surface of the muscle. Its edge will therefore be directed towards the tibia, and its blade— in the position in which the limb is held—will be nearly horizontal. When the muscle has been divided, the outer part must be drawn well outwards by a broad retractor oi- retractors held by an assistant. The deep fascia that covers in the vessels and the deep muscles of the leg is now exposed. If the finger be introduced the vessel can be felt. It must be remembered that the artery lies near the outer border of the tibia. When the fascia has been divided (it is usually vei-y thin) the flesh}'- fibres of the flexor longus digitorum are exposed. These fibres all run obliquely downwards. By following the .surface of the muscle the vessels are reached. The veins are very conspicuou.s, and may hide the artery. The nerve lies to the outer side, and the needle should be passed from the nerve. It is practically impossible to separate the venoe comites from the vessel. Comment.—This operation requires a good light, and may be mo.st conveniently done with the aid of a small electric lamp. The tissues must be carefully retracted, and all the soft parts drawn outwards. In u.sing the retractor.s rougldy, some fibres of the flexor longus digitorum may be torn up and made to hide the artery. This may rea'lily occur in the