431 LATERAL LITHOTOMY. CH^VP. I.] fixed in the lithotomy position. It is very undesirable to introduce the staff while the patient is lying fiat upon the table, and before any step has been taken to bring him into position. The rough movements necessary may cause the staff to damage the bladder or the urethra. If the staff' be introduced as above advised, all the rough movements are over, and nothing remains but to gently flex the thighs upon the pelvis. The assistant who introduces the staff must not take his fingers off the instrument until it is finally removed from the bladder. The patient being in the well-known lithotomy jjosition, the sui-geon seats himself beyond the end of the table, his face being on a level with the patient’s perineum. The presence of the stone should have been verified by the staff', or b}'^ a sound previously introduced. The staff is held quite perpendicularly, and its concavity is drawn well up against the bony arch of the pubes. It is held rigidly and exactly in the median line. The assistant’s thumb is placed upon the rough handle, while his fingers grasp the shaft. There must not be the least rotation of the instrument to one side or the other. In this position it is held throughout the operation and until it is withdrawn. The assistant at the same time holds up the penis and scrotum, and sees that the perineal raphii is exactly A’ertical. 'I'lic Operation.—First or Swperjicial Incision.— Steadying the integuments of the peilneum with the fingers of the left hand, the sui’geon makes the first incision. The knife is introduced at right angles to the surface of the peri- neum, and at a point just to the left of the median raphii, and just behind the central point of the perineum—i.e., in the adult about one inch and a quarter in front of the anus. The knife is thrust in the direction of the staff, and its point may just hit the staff. This first movement is of the nature of a stab or a punctui’e. The incision is completed as the knife is withdrawn. It is carried downwards and outwards into the left ischio- rectal fossa, and ends at a point between the tuber ischii