4G2 [part XIII. SURGICAL OPERATIONS. Or a V-shaped incision may be employed, with the apex of tlie Y pointing downwards. In any case, the flap should be of ample size, and should be so placed as to allow of the free draining away of blood. The incision should be carried at once down to the bone, and the pericranium having been detached with a curved rugine, the flap as it is turned up will be composed of all the soft parts covering the skull. A long silk suture should be inserted into the free end or apex of the flap, and by means of this thread the flap is drawn u]i and held out of the way. The bleeding from the scalp tissues is usually free. The more conspicuous bleeding jioints are neatly secured by pressure forceps; sponge pressure Avill check mere oozing. The fracture is now exposed and examined. It may be found to be at once possible to introduce an elevator beneath the depressed bone, and to elevate it. Fragments at the same time may often be I’eadily removed by means of dress- ing forceps or necrosis forceps. In other cases a rim of projecting bone—belonging to the sound part of the skull—maybe removed with a narrow chisel and mallet, or with Key’s saw, or with the gouge or gouge-forcejDS, and a little space is at once provided be- tween the bones which will allow of an elevator being introduced. In this part of the o})eration it must be con- fessed that Key’s saw is of little use. Indeed, Key’s saw is not a serviceable instrument, and it is rarely employed. The elevator must be introduced with care. It is apt to slip, and such an accident is least possible with Korsley’s instrument. In raising the depressed bone,>it is needless to say that the elevator must be supported upon the sound part of the skull. Sometimes when the bone is much comminuted one fragment will be found to be so tilted outwards that it can be seized and removed, and through the gap thus left the elevator or the blade of the dressing forceps or necrosis forceps can be introduced. In a comparatively few cases the trephine will be