[part VII. 280 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. (luced. When the tube is in place—and not before—the sharp hook is removed. The tube is secured in place by tape, and the wound below the tube is brought together by a suture or two of silkworm-gut. A jnece of lint properly shaped and smeared Avith a weak iodoform ointment is placed under the shield of the tube, and is made to cover and protect the wound. Rapid and elhcient sponging with small pieces of fine 'Purkey sponge is of great service throughout the opera- tion. Ti-iirhcoloiiiy by Bose’s Mefho«l.- A vertical incision is made in the median line. It commence.s ojiposite the centre of tlie thyroid cartilage, and is continued downwards for about one and a half or two inches. The incision is carried down to the lower ])art of the thyroid cartilage and the upper part of the cricoid. The soft parts being held aside by retractors, a transverse incision is made along the upper border of the cricoid cartilage in such a way as to dhdde the layer of the deep cervical fascia which lies in front of the trachea and which holds the thyroid isthmus. A blunt director is now intro- duced through this transverse incision, and by its means the fascia and the isthmus, together with all the veins con- nected therewith, are fully separated from the trachea. A broad, curved hook is now introduced, and the detached fascia, together with the other,soft pai-ts, is drawn down- wards, leaving the trachea quite bare. The cricoid cartilage is now fixed by means of a double-pointed sharp hook, and the tracheal rings are incised in the usual way. This method has much to commend it. . It is simple and easy of performance. It iiiAmlves some expenditure of time, and some damage may be done to adjacent structures by the director if care be not used. Veins are readily toi'ii through by this instrument. K cautiously j)erformed, the operation has distinct claims to be called “bloodless.” C'oiniiioiit.—Qiu\ operation, tracheotomy must be regarded as an easy and simple procedure. Those