CHAP. II.] EXCISION OF THYROID BODY. 293 on the front of the neck, and especially those over tlie face of the tumour, are aj)t to be stretched, and a vein so stretched may be quite unrecognisable. It is well, there- fore, to have the head lifted now and then, so that the veins to be dealt with may be brought well into view. Step by step the surgeon clears the whole of the front surface of the swelling, dealing with every bleeding point as it is met with, and not trusting either to the pressure of fingers or of sponges, or of artery forceps. When the anterior surface is cleared, the next step is to approach the lateral margins of the growth, and to secure the thyroid vessels. It must be remembered that the thyroid body touches the carotid sheath. The position of that vessel should be made out as early as possible, and the utmost care taken to avoid it. If the bronchocele is in close contact with the main vessels, some special care may be required in separating the huge internal jugular vein from the capsule. The superior thyroid artery is then sought for at the upper extremity of the tumour. It m^ not be made out without some difficulty. If the vessels cannot be individually isolated, a double ligature may be passed by means of an aneurysm needle, and the vascular pedicle ligatured in two places and divided between. The vessels embraced by these ligatures may be separately sutured at a later period if thought neces- sary. The hiferior thyroid artery is le.ss easy to deal with. It is more deeply placed, has more numerous veins in rela- tion with it, and is closely connected with the recurrent laryngeal nerve. No pains should be .spared to expose it well. The ligatures should be applied at some distance from the lower border of the tumour, and the branches of the arteiy should be cut through just as they enter the broncho- cele. In this way there is less danger of including the re- current nerves. The whole of the lateral border of the tumour is now separated. The same precautions are observed. The blunt elevator is the chief insti'ument. The scissors are used as required, and the ves.sels encountered ai’e all ligatured and divided in the manner described. Tlie mass is turned over towards the opposite side, and