[PAUT VIII. 336 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. resection area. If sponges have been well packed all around the coil, this precaution may sometimes, and in some special cases, be dispensed with. Many clamps have been devised for the present purpose. No instrument, however, is so efficient as the fingers of an intelligent assistant. Of the various clamps devised, tliat introduced by Mr. Makins is. useful. The blades are covered with indiarubber tubing, and are long enough to compress the whole width of the bowel. They are simple, and are easily applied and removed. Another useful clamp is that known by Doyen’s or Hartmann’s name, though it is practically identical with that introduced previously by Sir T.< Smith. In adjusting clamps (should these instruments be used) the upper clamp will be applied first. The segment of bowel to be excised will then be gently emptied by passing the fingers along it, and the lower clamp will be fixed in posi- tion. Little matter should therefore escape from the isolated segment during the division of the coats of the bowel. Before applying the sutures, care must be taken that the bowel above the resection area is not greatly distended. If it be so, the distension must be relieved, as much gas and ftecal matter being allowed to escape as will find an exit. This is best effected by making an opening in the centre of the loop to be excised, and allowing the intestinal contents to escape into a gutter of thin indiarubber tissue which has been already pi*epared and put in position. This answers better than the method of loosening the upper clamp after the bowel has been excised. 3. The portion of diseased bowel is now excised. This is effected with blunt-pointed scissoi’s. The cut must be made about three-fourths of an inch beyond the margin of the clamp. If it be much nearer, it will be found that the clamp interferes with the movement of the needles during the passage of Lembert’s suture. The scissors cut their way from the free border towards the mesentery; on approaching the mesentery care must be taken to save as much of that membrane as possible. Another—and in most instances a better—method of