MANUALS FOR Students and Practitioners of Medicine Published by CASSELL d; COMPAJVY. A Manual of Operative Surgery. By Sir Frederick Treves,Bai-t., K C.V.O., C.B., F.R.C.S., LL.D. Revised by the Author and Jonathan Hutchinson, Jun.,F.R.C.S., Surgeon to the London Hospital, Examiner in Surgery Royal Army Medical Department. With 450 Illustrations. In Two Volumes, ‘tfis. .Supplied in sets only. A Manual of Medical Treatment or Clinical Therapeutics. By i. Bumey Yeo, m.d., F.R.C.P. With Illustrations. Neiv and Revised Edition. TwoVols. net. *• U is a book rom which the most skilled therapeutist has something to learn, a book which the more ordinary physician, no matter how frequently he .appeals to it. will surely find a true guide, philosopher and friend. One thought at the time that improvement on the first cditi:m would be next to impossible Success, however, is a wonderful stimulant to an author, hence we have a thoroughly revise<l, extended, and modernised Edition of the Manual of Medical Therapeutics which is likely to remain for some time to come the standard uork on the subject in the English language. We feel at liberty to give the book unqualified praise, and almost constrained, not only to recommend it, but also to urge it upon all who do not possess it, yet arc ambitiousof becoming polished practical surgeons.”—The Medical Press a?id Circular. Surgical Diseases of the Kidney and Ureter. By Henry Morris, M.A., M.B. Lond., F.R.C.S. Chairman of the Court of Examiners and recently a Vice-President of the Royal College of Surgeons, Senior Surgeon to the Middlesex Hospital, &c. With 2 Chromo Plates acd numerous Engravings. Two Vols. net. "The soundest .ind most authoritative teaciiing, expressed ill the ciearest ami iirightest phrasing. British surgery may justiy pride itseif on iiaving produced so admirahic and worthy a trc.itise.'—iJnVir/i Medical Journal. Tumours, Innocent and Malignant: Their Clinical Characters and Appropriate Treatment. By J. Bland-Sutton, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to the Chelsea Hospital for Women, etc. With 312 Engravings. Neiv and Revised Edition. 2ls» " A work which roust have entailed on its author the expenditure of infinite labour and patience, and which there can be little question will rank high among works of class.”—Lancet. The Therapeutics of Mineral Springs and Climates. By I. Burney Yeo, M.D., F.R.C.P. 6‘ff. net. (In preparation.) This is a new and revi.sed edition of Dr. Veo's “ Climate and Health Resorts.” M.M. 1.04.