382 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [part Aaii. exists, or over the fundus of the gall-bladder when no swelling is evident. It is easy to enlarge this vertical incision, which is placed in the linea semilunaris or the substance of the rectus muscle, by two nearly transverse shorter cuts at either end ; the upper one encroaches on the rectus muscle, the lower passes outwards, so that the whole becomes a sigmoid incision. The peritoneum is opened, and the area of the operation is explored with the forefinger. The wound is enlarged as required. Intestine may protrude and hamper the sur- geon’s movements, or the omentum may be found in the way, or an enlarged liver may overshadow the operation region. The gall-bladder and the cystic and common ducts sliould then be palpated (if necessary, the left index finger is passed through the foramen of Winslow), in order to ascertain the exact position of any calculi.* If the gall-bladder be found to be of great size, or very tense from over-distension, it should be carefully aspirated. The site of the needle puncture is protected by sponges, which are wedged in position. As the cyst is emptied, its wall is gradually and gently brought into the parietal wound. This is not always an easy mattei’, and as. the cyst wall is often very thin, it must needs be handled with great gentleness. Care must be taken that no fluid escapes into the peri- toneal cavity. If the bladder be but slightly distended, its wall may be bi’ought to the sui’face without previous aspiration. The wall of the gall-bladder is best held and drawn forwards by means of pressure forceps. The amount of traction exercised must be very judiciously regulated. The wall of the gall-bladder is then opened by an, incision made between the retaining forceps, all bleeding points are dealt with, and the forceps are readjusted so that the cyst may be drawn well forward, and held in position between the lips of the parietal wound. By means of properly-applied sponges the escape of fluid into the peritoneal cavity is prevented.