CHAP. XVII.] AMPUTATIONS. 187 position of the femoral artery, with reference to antero- posterior flaps generally, may be alluded to here. In an amputation by antero-posterior flaps made above the middle of the thigh, the femoral artery, together with the profunda, will be found in the anterior flap. In a like amputation performed below the middle of the limb the main artery will be divided in the posterior flap. In this position, however, there is risk of splitting the artery if the anterior flap much exceed in width one-half of the circum- ference of the limb. This is avoided by placing this flap a little towards the external aspect of the limb instead of fashioning it in the median segment. When the amputa- tion is carried out in the middle of the thigh, the anterior flap should be antero external. This will bring the artery in the posterior flap. The descending branch of the external circumflex artery will always be found divided in the anterior flap, together with many muscular branches. In the lower third of the limb the anastomotica magna will be divided about the inner part of the hinder flap. In the angle between the flaps, and in the muscular tissue close to the bone, branches of the perforating arteries will be found cut. It is needless to say that the muscular arteries in the thigh are large and numerous, and that the great veins requii’e to be occluded by ligature. Comment.—Owing to the uneven manner in which the muscles of the part retract, and to the extent of that re- traction, a conical stump is not uncommon after any amputation of the thigh. With regard to the selection of methods ;— The usual circular method cannot be advised, nor is any form of the amputation suited for the middle or higher part of the limb. The modified circular operation described (No. 1) and Syme’s operation (No. 2) are adapted for the lower third of the limb, especially in cases where a long anterior flaj) cannot be cut, for children, and for the limiis of enfeebled and wasted subjects. The facts that the wound-surface