Manuals for Students and Practitioners of Medicine {contd.). 3 Ring;worm. In the Light of Recent Research. Pathology- Treatment—Prophylaxis. By Malcolm MorriS, Surgeon to the Skin Department, St. Mary’s Hospital, London. With 22 Micro- photographs and a Coloured Plate. 7s. 6d. "Mr. Malcolm Morris has now given the profession a most excellent, concise, and readable account of Ringworm, viewed from the modem standpoint; and we heartily commend his book to the attention of every practitioner.'’—Dublin Medical journal. A System of Surg^ery. Edited by sir Frederick Treves, Bart.,K.C.V.O., C.B.,F.R.C.S.,LL.D. Seventh Thousand. Each Vol. contains Two Coloured Plates and Several Hundred Original Woodcut Illustrations by Charles Berjeau, F.L.S., and others. Complete in two volumes, price 4.8s. A List of Contributors, with Contents, will be forwarded on application. Diseases of the Joints and Spine. By Howard Marsh, F.B.C.S., Professor of Surgery in the University of Cambridge, &c. New and Revised Edition. With 79 Illustrations. Itis. Gd. “ This volume is excellently planned. Mr. Marsh brings to bear upon it keen critical acumen.”—Liverpool Medico Ckirurgical journal. Surgical Diseases of the Ovaries and Fallopian Tubes, including Tubal Pregnancy. By J. Bland-Sutton, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to the Chelsea Hospital for Women, Assistant Surgeon to the Middlesex Hospital. With 146 Illustrations. 21s, “ We have nothing but praise for the contents of the book,"—Edinburgh McdUat yourfial. Difficult Labour. A Guide to its Management. For Students and Practitioners. By G. Emcst Herman, M.B. Lond., F.R.C.P., Senior Obstetric Physician to the London Hospital, &c. With 165 Illustrations. New and Revised Edition. l!is. Gd. " The book is well arranged and profusely illustrated with excellent diagrams. 11 IS a decided acquisition to the literature of midwifery, and we have pleasure in recom- mending it to all interested in the subject,”—G/ajg-on' Medical Joitrnal. On the Origin and Progress of Renal Surgery, with Special Reference to Stone in the Kidney and Ureter ; and to the Surgical Treatment of Calculous Anuria. Bein^ the Hunterian Lectures for 1898. Together with a Critical Examination of Subparietal Injuries of the Ureter. By Henry Morris, M.A., M.B. Lond., F.R.C.S., Chairman of the Court of Examiners of the Royal College of Surgeons, &c. &c. With 28 Illustrations. Gs.