[part III. 128 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. the coi'acoicl process. An assistant holds back the tissues of the flap, while the surgeon exposes the cords of the brachial plexus, which are then divided at the same level as the main vessels, ie. close to the fli'st rib. The shoulder now falls outwards away from the trunk, and the axilla is fully opened up. Any undivided connec- tions of the limb in the axillary region'are freed. The latissimus dorsi is severed in the line of the incision, and serves to form part of the flap. 3rd Step.—The patient lies still in the same position at the extreme edge of the table, but the arm is now carried across the chest by an assistant so as to well expose the scapular region, and the surgeo7i takes his place to the outer side of the extremity. He proceeds to cut the postcro-superior flap. The incision starts at the outer termination of the first or clavicular incision (i.e. at a point just beyond the acromio- clavicular joint), and is carried backwards by the shortest route over the scapular spine to meet the termination of the anterior flap incision, at the inferior angle of the scapida (Fig. 40). The wound concerns the integuments only. The skin is well reflected in the upper part of the incision, so as to lay bare the trapezius muscle. This muscle is divided close to its attachments to the clavicle and scapula, and is entirely severed from its connections with the limb. 4III Step.—Nothing now remains but to sever the con- nections of the scapula with the trunk. One assistant holds back the anterior flap, another the posterior. The limb is allowed to hang away from the side, supported by a third assistant, and steadied and directed by the left hand of the operator. The operator himself may conveniently stand to the inner side of the right arm and the outer side of the left. The superior and vertebral borders of the scapula being made prominent, the following muscles are rapidly divided from above downwards close to the bone : the omo-hyoid, levator anguli scapuloe, rhomboideus minor and majoi’, and the serratus magnus. The limb is now free.' The two teres muscles, the sub-