CHAP. II.] CLEFT PALATE. 277 mai'gin of the velum towards the hard palate. The knife may follow the anterior angle of the cleft (assuming the hard palate to be sound), and may return in the opposite direction along the other margin of the cleft, that side of the velum being made tense in turn. The whole of each side of the cleft must be well and liberally freshened. The anterior angle of the cleft and the tip of the uvula are esjiecially apt to escape the knife. The raw surface .should be wide, and of even width throughout. Scissors should never be used to freshen the edges. There will probably be no need for the flaps to be again touched with the forceps when this stage has been com- pleted. The next step is the passing of the sutures. They should be introduced from below upwards. The first suture is jiassed through the halves of the uvula, and the two ends are held in a pair of Wells’s forceps, so that it may be used to make the edges tense, and thus avoid any handling of the palate with forceps. The same course is adopted with the ends of each suture, so that when the moment arrives for tying them all there can be no confusion between the various sutures. Each Wells’s forceps grasps the corre- sponding ends of a single suture. The sutures must-be placed at a sufficient distance from the margin of the gap to secure a good hold, and their numlier and arrangement must depend upon the degree of tension at any particular point. If the cleft be narrow, the sutures can be passed without difficulty. If it be wide, some S)>ecial method may have to be adopted. The following is the most convenient;—A very long suture has a needle threaded at either end of it. One needle is passed through the left flap of the palate from behind forwards, and the other through the right flap in the same direction. The first needle jiassed must be liehl by an assistant while the other is being introduced. This is ])ractically the method often adopted in closing an abdominal incision. The needles employed should be small and curved, and must be passed by means of a simple needle-holder.