STRANGULATED HERNIA. 405 CHAP. I.] The subcutaneous tissue can of course be recognised, and in the inguinal region the intercolumnar fascia and the ere- masteric fascia can often be made out; but beyond this the surgeon will be but little reminded of the coverings which are so elaborately displayed in the dissecting-room. The sac, when well exposed, has usually a distinct capsule-like outline, its walls are tense, and when they are thin, the blood-stained fluid contained therein, or the purple gut, may give to the structure a bluish aspect. In a thick- walled sac, this somewhat characteristic bluish tint may be entirely absent. The sac is best identified by the fingers, rather than by the eyes. As the hernia is laid bare, the surgeon should from time to time pinch up the coverings yet left undivided between the finger and thumb, and estimate their thickness. Any attempt to demonstrate the sac by counting the supposed anatomical layers that are divided in exposing it is almost sure to be fallacious. The sac, having been identified, is well exposed, and its neck is well cleared. Before opening the sac, the operator pinches up a minute portion of the wall between his finger and thumb, in order to estimate its thickness and to demonstrate that it is clear from attachments to the contents of the sac. A like fold in the sac wall is then picked up by dissecting forceps and opened by means of a scalpel, the blade of which is held nearly flat. The operatoi- pulls the little fold of sac away from the bowel as he makes the division. When once an opening is niade, it is readily enlarged by means of a blunt-pointed bistoury, or blunt-pointed scissors. The sac should be cleanly opened, and not torn open. The operation up to this point should be carried out by careful incisions, and not by tearing. 2. Division of tlic Sti'U‘flire, ami the Treat- ment of the Contents of tiie Sae.—The exposed bowel is carefully examined and its treatment deter- mined upon. The less it is handled the better. If it be in a condition suitable for reduction, the next step will be to divide the stricture. The neck of the sac is examined