192 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [part m. resection operations—is very convenient at this stage. The knife must be carried vigorously down to the bone. The upper part of the shaft of the femur is now cleared as far as the vertical incision extends. The soft parts must be liberally cut, care being taken that the femoral and profunda arteries are not encroached upon. In this step the insertions of the gluteus maximus, quadratus femoris, psoas, iliacus, pectineus and upper adductor fibres are divided, together with the superior portions of the triceps femoris. The surgeon is aided by an assistant, who draws the divided soft parts away so as to well expose the bone. (4) The bone has now to be disarticulated. The capsule may be divided transversely at its upper and posterior parts while the limb is in the position of extreme adduction. The anterior part of the capsule can be severed while the thigh is a little flexed. The limb is now rotated outwards to its utmost, the joint opened, and the round ligament cut. Everything about the upper end of the femur should now be free and ready for the final sweep of the knife. Up to this point no vessels of any magnitude have been divided, the chief arteries concerned being the internal circumflex, some branches of the external circumflex and of the* sciatic, and a few muscular vessels. f (5) Nothing now remains but to cut the muscles upon the inner side of the limb by a vigorous circular sweep ol the knife at the level of the already retracted skin. A few touches of the blade and the limb is removed. The great vessels are at once secured. Haemorrhage.—In securing the bleeding points the assistant holds up the anterior part of the flap so as to well expose the whole wound surface. Care must be taken that any tourniquet applied does not slip when the limb is removed. The great vessels are found severed on the anterior face of the wound, close to the divided rectus, sartorius, and adductor longus muscles. The vessels are placed one behind the other in the