232 [part IV. SURGICAL OPERATIONS. The second assistant aids in retracting the soft parts. (c) Separation of the Inner Margin of the Wound.— The limb is restored to the position it originally occupied, and the surgeon proceeds to clear the bone upon its inner aspect in the manner just described. The humerus is rotated outwards as he proceeds; and when the lesser tuberosity is reached, the subscapularis insertion is divided, and the attachment of the capsule beyond it. In this stage care must be taken of the biceps tendon, which should be drawn aside. {d) Cleanng of the Neck of the Bone.—The biceps tendon is displaced inwards. The elbow is flexed, and the arm is held vertically {i.e. at right angles to the table), and is thrust upwards so that the head of the bone is rtiade to project through the wound. The posterior part of the neck of the bone is cleared, and the parts are prepared for the passage of the saw. (e) Excision of the Head of the Humerus.—The head of the bone is seized with lion forceps held in the surgeon’s left hand, and the bone is sawn through with either a small Butcher’s saw or a thin saw with a movable back. The saw-cut should incline from without very slightly downwards and inwards, so that no sharp end may be left which might press upon the axillary vessels or nerves. In .sawing the left humerus the surgeon stands facing the patient; in dealing with the right he will find it more convenient to stand behind the shoulder (by the patient’s head). While the saw is being used, the soft jiarts must be protected by metal spatulje. (/) The glenoid cavity is examined, and its diseased surface gouged away. The skin incision is closed with sutures, and the limb placed in position. It should be noted that, so long as all diseased bone and synovial membrane is removed, the insertions of the rotator muscles should be interfered with as little as possible. It is unnecessary to force the humeral head out into the wound, as it may be divided with a chisel as it lies in position. The synovial pouches in connection with the