SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [part VIII. 340 a case the two parts to be united may be brought to more nearly the same size if the distension of the upper part of the bowel be relieved by allowing its contents to escape. Moreover, after the excision, and before the sutures are applied, the lower clamp may be loosened, and the con- tracted bowel gently stretched to the necessary size with the fingers, after which the clamp may be reapplied. In actual practice, however, these measures are usually not called for. If the bowel about the part to be removed be greatly dilated, and the bowel below be greatly con- tracted, there must have been a severe grade of intestinal obstruction, and in such a condition the enterectomy should be concluded by establishing an artificial anus. When, however, the ctecum has been excised, and the ileum has to be united to the colon, one or other of the following measures may be adopted:— 1. Welir’s Method.—The end of the narrower part of the bowel is not divided transversely, but is cut obliquely. The obliquity must be such that the oblong opening whicli results shall correspond to the lumen of the other end of the bowel. This unequal division of the intestine must always be made at the expense of the convex or free margin of the gut. It has the drawback of pro- ducing a bend or kink of the intestine. 2. Biili'otli’s Metlio<l.—This is known as lateral implantation. Assuming that the csecum has been excised, the end of the colon is closed by sutures. This is eflfected by invaginating the free margins of the divided gut, so that the ^serous coats are brought into close contact. The parts are united by sutures, preferably by a double row. A slit is now made in the wall of the closed colon. This slit is vertical—i.e. in the long axis of the colon—is placed upon that margin of the gut which is opposite to the attachment of the mesocolon, and is situate about two inches from the closed end. The size of the slit will correspond to the size of the divided end of the ileum. The end of the ileum is implanted in the slit, and is secured there by very careful suturing.