[part IV. 222 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. whereas its iutiinate relations with the artery and neigh- l)ouring parts would cause much trouble at an earlier stage. “ The liand being bent back to relax the extensors, the ulnar incision should next be made very free, by entering the knife at least two inches above the end of the ulna immediately anterior to the bone, and carrying it down between the bone and flexor carpi ulnaris, and on in a straight line as far as the middle of the fifth metacarpal bone at its palmar aspect. The dorsal lip of the incision is then raised, and the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris cut at its insertion, and its tendon dissected up from its groove in the ulna, care being taken not to isolate it from the integuments, which would endanger its vitality. The finger extensors are then sepai’ated from the cai-jjus, and the doi’sal and internal lateral ligaments of the wrist-joint divided, but the connections of the tendons with the radius are purposely left undistiu'bed. “ Attention is now directed to the palmar side of the incision. The anterior surface of the ulna is cleared by cutting towards the bone so as to avoid the artery and nerve, the articulation of the pisiform bone oj^ened, if that has not been already done in making the incision, and the flexor tendons separated from the cai’pus, the hand being depressed to relax them. While this is being done, the knife is arrested by the unciform process, which is clipped through at its base with pliers. “ Care is taken to avoid carrying the knife farther down the hand than the bases of the metacarpal bones, for this, besides inflicting unnecessary injuiy, would involve risk of cutting the deep palmar ai'ch. The anterior ligament of the wrist-joint is also divided, after which the junction between the carpus and metacarpus is severed with cutting pliers, and the carpus extracted from the ulnar incision with .sequestrum forceps, and by touching with the knife any ligamentous connections. “ The hand being now forcibly everted, the articular ends of the radius and ulna will protrude at the ulnar incision. If they appear sound, or very superhcially affected, the