CHAP. X.] 0A8TR0-JEJ UNOSTOM Y. 3. Oastro-iciiiiiostoiiiy by ITIiii-pliy's Button. —The chief points in this method have been referred to and illustrated in the section on Suture of the Intestine (page 324 et seqq.). Care should be taken to place the heavier part of the button in the intestine, so that when it works loose it may not fall into the stomach. It is, how- ever, to some e.xtent a matter of chance into which viscus the button travels. A few extra Lembert's sutures should be inserted to hold the two viscera together in the neighbourhood of the opening. This applies to all three methods described, as they not only i-ender the apposition more secure and the chance of leakage less, but they also prevent kinking of the intestine. The one great advantage of the button is the rapidity with which the operation can be performed. If tlie stomach and jejunum are already in place in the wound, the operation of gastro-jejunostomy can be completed in* some eight minutes. The button may fall into the stomach and remain there for weeks or months. I have known the button to lx* passed per anum nine months after the operation. The button has caused trouble from retention. C'oiiiiiiriitK oil mill Tfloililicatioiis of tli<* Opoi’iitioii.—Atfii’st the anterior method was alone used, but posterior gastro-jejuno.stomy has come more and more into favour, and by some surgeons is always employed. The reasons given for the preference of the po.sterior method are (1) the opening is lower down in the stomach ; (2) the commencement of the jejunum is opened instead of a part of the gut several inches from this point: hence regurgitatio]i is less common, and the stomach evacuates itself more readily ; (3) there can be no interference with the transverse colon by the jejunal loop, and no risk therefore of intestinal obstruction. On the other hand, anterior gastro-jejunostomy has given excellent I’esults in many ca.ses, and it is somewhat the easier to perform. The question is hardly settled yet, but on the whole the