CHAP. XVII.] 185 AMPUTATIONS. The skin beyond the little flaps is in its turn separated —just as in the usual circular method—and is reflected until a point is reached some two inches above the bases of the small antero-posterior flaps. The anterior femoral muscles are now divided down to the bone by a transverse sweep of the knife at the level of the retracted skin. The posterior muscles are severed in like manner, but at the level at which they were first uncovered in forming the posterior flap. “ The muscles,” as Syme puts it, “ should be divided right down to the bone, on a level as high as they are exposed in front, as low as they are exposed behind.” The muscular tissue after division is further retracted, so as to clear the bone well. The femur is ultimately sawn about two inches above the level of the spot at which the anterior muscles were divided. 3. Amputations by T.<ong^ Anterior and Short Posterior Flaps.—It is assumed that the femur is to be divided about its centre. The two flaps are U-shaped. The anterior flap is equal in length to one diameter and a half of the limb at the saw-line. The posterior flap has the length of one-half the diameter of the extremity at the same level. The anterior flap is the widei’, its base slightly exceeding half the circumference of the limb (Fig. 64, a). Operation.—(1) The limb is rotated outwards on the right side, and inwards on the left. The anterior flap is marked out first. In the right thigh the surgeon com- mences with the inner limb of the fiaji, cutting downwards. He then carries the knife across the front of the extremity, and finishes with the outer limb of the flap, the leg being now rotated inwards. In dealing with the left limb the conditions are reversed, and the cut is first made upon the external aspect. The incision includes the integuments only. In marking out the posterior flap the surgeon’s hand is beneath the thigh, and the knife, being entered at the farther limb of the anterior flap, is drawn across the posterior surface and towards the opei’ator. This cut also involves the integuments only.'