NEPHRORRAPHY. CHAP. XII.] 401 edge of muscle, and the looj) is held in a pair of pressure forceps. A second and third suture is similarly introduced below the first one, traversing the middle and lower parts of the kidneys. Four and even five such sutures may sometimes be employed. The patient is then turned almost into the supine position and the sutures are knotted securely one by one, without employing such force as would risk their cut- ting through. The kidney tissue is very soft, and the sutures are readily made to cut through unless tied very gently. If necessary, one or more buried sutures of ten- don may be employed to close the wound in the muscles still further. There is no necessity to introduce the sutures deeply into the renal cortex, and there should be no risk of passmg one into the pelvis or one of the calyces. The superficial part of the wound is closed with silkworm-gut. Drainage is not required. IV.—Uretero-lithotomy. A calculus may be impacted at the junction of the renal pelvis with its ureter, aC* the vesical orifice, or at any point between these two. Hence no fixed rules can be laid down for its extraction. In the majority of cases the stone should be cut down upon in the lumbar region through an incision made as for nephrotomy, commencing at the angle between the erector spinse and the last rib, and passing downwards to the iliac crest. The Rontgen rays should always have been used beforehand, and the position of the calculus ascer- tained as far as possible. The lower end of the kidney and the pelvis having been identified, the calculus is sought by palpation. If it can be detected in or near the renal pelvis, the latter is incised, care being taken to avoid any aberrant renal vessels (it is quite common to find one or more branches of the renal vessels passing behind the upper end of the ureter). A gush of urine ensues, and the finger, being introduced, will perhaps succeed in extracting the stone aided by pressure from below Avith the left hand. A small lithotomy scoop or forceps such as are used in