CHAP. IV.] (ESOPHAOOTOMY. 305 Tlie first steps of the operation are identical with those for ligaturing the common carotid. As soon as the skin and fascia have been divided, the finger should be introduced into the wound, and the position of the impacted substance be further defined. The omo-hyoid muscle is drawn downwards, and must be divided if neces.sary. The sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyroid muscles must be drawn a little aside, and, in cases where the foreign body is low down, may need to undergo some division of their fibres. The sterno-mastoid and the large vessels are drawn out- wards. The carotid sheath is not disturbed. The trachea and larynx are drawn over, or rather tilted over, to the inner or opposite side. The position of the gullet can now be readily made out. It may be desirable at this stage to pass a bougie or a pair of msophageal forceps, in order to accurately demon- strate the situation of the tube and of the impacted body. It must be remembered that the oesophagus, when empty, is flat and tape like, and does not exist as the well-rounded tube which figures in most anatomical text-books. The inferior thyroid artei’y and the superior and middle thyroid veins must be carefully avoided. ’The last-named vessels will usually need to be ligatured and divided. All bleeding having been arrested, the gullet is steadied by a pair of fine, long-bladed, toothed forceps, and is opened longitudinally over the site of the foreign body. The recurrent laryngeal nerve runs in the groove be- tween the oesophagus and the trachea. The gullet must be opened through its lateral wall, so as to avoid injury to this nerve. In the actual ojieration it will appear that the oesophagus is being opened as far back as possible. 'J’he opening in the tube must not be extended by tear- ing, or be dilated with dressing-forceps ; it must be cautiously enlarged by a blunt-pointed bistoury. The removal of the foreign body must be carried out with the greatest care, and a curved periosteal elevator will be found a most valuable instrument in freeiim the sub- O stance and prising it into tlie wound.