292 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [PAKT VII. will be found to be stretched over the goitre. These struc- tures will probably be much thinned and very altered in appearance. The surgeon must make his way down to the gland, and must convince himself that he has opened up the plane of connective tissue beneath these muscles, and is not wander- ing aimlessly over their outer surface. The sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid muscles will need to be divided in whole or in part. They should, however, be respected as far as possible, and drawn to the outer side of the tumour. It may be necessary even to cut one or both of the sterno-mastoid muscles. The operator must trust but little to retractors, but must rather aim at obtaining the fullest view of the bronchocele by dissection. The muscles named will very often be closely adherent to the tumour, and in clearing them away the scalpel must be used very sparingly. No instrument is more serviceable in this stage of the operation than a broad periosteal elevator. Its point is so blunt that it can do little damage, and its configuration is admirably suited to peel the tissues away from the capsule. This must be done with great care. The elevator is made to work its way beneath the muscles and the fascia, and when the precise relations are clear the tissues are divided over the elevator as over a director. In effecting this exposure of the goitre a pair of blunt-pointed scissors curved on the flat is more useful than a scalpel, and the handle of the scalpel is of more service than the blade. The elevator must not be vigorously thrust here and there, but must be made to find an easy path. No tissue should be cut until it has been well examined, and any especially resisting structure must be exposed before it is torn across or cut. A plexus of large, thin-walled veins will usually be found covering the tumour. They must be separately treated, and must be individually divided between two ligatures. These vessels are easily torn across, and are very apt to be adherent. If the head be in the position of extension, the structures