2G SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [parti. Difficulties may be caused by the presence of a cervical rib or by an abnormality in the artery. Ligature of tlic Subclavian after Division of tlic Clavicle.—Of late years it lias been pi-oved that division and excision of more or less of the clavicle greatly favours access to the subclavian artery. During the first stage of amputation of the entire upper extremity (Berger’s operation) the vein and artery have been thus secured in a great many cases. The excision should be carried out sub- periosteally, and as the aneurysm has probably encroached upon the posterior surface of the bone, great care should be taken not to open into the sac, as if this accident happened it might prevent the operation being completed, and might readily cause fatal haemorrhage. THE COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. Line of the Artery.—The course of the common carotid is represented by a line drawn from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the tip of the mastoid process. A valuable guide to the artery, at about the point of crossing of the omo-hyoid muscle, is afforded by Chassaignac’s “ carotid tubercle.” This is the costal process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and the artery lies directly over it. It is to be found about two and a-half inches above the clavicle. The common carotid may be secured at any part of its course in the neck. The operations resolve themselves, however, into ligature above the omo-hyoid muscle and ligature below it. The former situation is in every respect to be preferred. Below the muscle the -sessel is deeply placed, and has more complicated relations to structures of importance. Farabeuf has well said that “ below the omo- hyoid muscle the deaths are more numerous than the recoveries; .above, the recoveries preponderate over the deaths.” Position.—The patient lies upon the back, close to the edge of the table, with the shoulders raised and the hand of the affected side .-placed behind the back. The