100 8URC4WAL OPERATIONS. [PAKT 111. The incision concerns at hrst the skin and the sub- cutaneous tissues only, and as it is being made the assistant draws up the soft parts of the dorsum. The hand is now allowed to drop into the prone position, while the operator dissects up the integuments of the dorsum until the joint-line is reached and the styloid processes are cleared. The left fingers are used to assist in this retraction. Tlie surgeon once more grasps the pronated hand, and flexing the wrist to the utmost, divides the left lateral ligament (i.e. the ligament on the operator’s left). By continuing the incision transversely, all the extensor tendons are severed opposite the line of the articulation, the ioint is opened, and finally the right lateral ligament is cut. Still flexing the wrist, and so rotating the hand that the border on the surgeon’s right is turned well forward, the operator cuts the anterior ligaments close to the carpus, and clears the bony eminences at the root of the palm. Unle.ss care be taken, the pisiform bone is very apt to be left behind. Little now is left but the mass of the flexor tendons. These are dragged upon while the wrist is still forcibly flexed, and the knife having been passed between the carpus and the tendons in question, the limb is finally severed by cutting vigorously from within outwards. In the final cut the palmar incision is, of course, followed. The wound is united so as to form a transverse cicatrix. Hmmorrhage.—The radial artery is divided in the dorsal wound at its outer extremity. At the inner angle of the dorsal wound the carpal branch of the ulnar may be found bleeding. In the palmar wound are divided the superficial and deep portions of the ulnar artei-y on the inner side and the superficialis vola3 on the outer. 2. The Elliptical Itlelliod.—So far as the covering of the bones is concerned, this method is nearly equivalent to disarticulation by a palmar flap. The positions of the patient and of the operator are the same as in the circular method.