Manuals for Students and Practitioners of Medicine {contd.). 2 Tropical Diseases. A Manual of the Diseases of Warm Climates. By Sir Patrick Manson, K.C.M.G., M.D., LL.D. ABerd., F.R.C.P., C.M.G., F.R.S. With Two Coloured Plates and 130 Illustrations. New Edition. 10s. 6d, net. "It is a good book, conceived and written in a scientific spirit and well up to date and—not to admit in these utilitarian days a practical view of its merits—it strikes us as sound and judicious in regard to the general dietetic and therapeutical treatment of the maladies which it describes. The volume is of a handy size and admirably illustrated.”—The Lancet, Diseases of the Skin. An Outline of the Prin- ciples and Practice of Dermatology. By Malcolm Morris, Surgeon to the Skin Department, St. Mary’s Hospital, London. With Two Coloured Plates, 36 Plain Plates, and Numerous Illustrations. New Edition. 10s, 6d, net. Surgical Applied Anatomy. By Sir Frederick Treves, Bart., K.C.V.O., C B., F.R.C.S., LL.D;, assisted by Arthur Keith, M.D., F.R.C.S. With 80 Illustrations. New and Enlarged Edition. Os, Oral Sepsis as a Cause of Disease. By W. Hunter, M.D., F.R.C.P. 3s. 6d. Intestinal Obstruction. Its Varieties, with their Pathology, Diagnosis, and Treatment. By Sir Frederick Treves, Bart., K.C.V.O., C.B., F.R.C.S., LL D. Illustrated. 21s. Orthopaedic Surgery. A Text-book of the Pathology and Treatment of Deformities. By J. JackSOn Clarke, M.B. Lond., F.R.C.S. With309 Illustrations, ^Is, ** Based upon a sound knowledge of pathology, Mr. Clarke’s descriptions are illus- trated by numerous cases drawn from his extensive hospital experience, whilst their value is enhanced by the frequent reference which he makes to the work of others, and hy numerous photographs, draw’ings, and diagrams.”—Chroftic/e. Medical Diseases of Infancy and Childhood. By Dawson Williams, M.D. Loud., Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians of London, and of University College, London ; Consulting Physician to the East London Hospital for Children, Shadwell, With 18 Full-page Plates and numerous Illustrations. 10s. 6d, Diseases of Women. A Clinical Guide to their Diagnosis and Treatment. By George Emest Herman, M.B.Lond., F.R.C.P., Senior Obstetric Physician to, and Lecturer on Midwifery at, the London Hospital ; Examiner in Midwifery to the University of Cambridge and the Royal College of Physicians, &c. &c. With upw.-trds of 250 Illustrations. New and Revised Edition. Price 2Ss.