34 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [part I. Tlie vein and the nerve slioiild he displaced upwards. The hyo-glossus muscle is divided trans^■ersely to the extent of about half an inch, a little above the margin of the hyoid bone, and parallel with it. The incision in the muscular tissue must be cautiously deepened. If the cut has been well placed the artery will bend out into the wound and make itself evident as soon as the whole thickness of the muscle has been divided. The needle—untlu-eaded—is most conveniently pas.sed from above downwards. In the ligature the minute venai comites which attend the artery are no doubt in- cluded. Comment.—This operation requires a good light, and is only performed with ease and certainty when the procedure is carried out step by step. The stages of the operation should be marked in succes- sion by the following points;—1. The complete lifting up of the submaxillary gland. 2. The demonstration of the edge of the mylo-hyoid muscle. 3. The clearing of the digastric tendon, and the drawing of it outwards with a hook. 4. T'he demonstration of the hyjmglossal nerve on the hyo-glossus muscle. The incision may be of less dimensions than those given, or may be extended if required. If the cut be carried too far back, the facial vein and artery are endangei’ed. Time should not be wasted over the early part of the operation. Such veins as are cut may be clamped and left. They seldom require a ligature. The gland must be well exposed. The chief difficulties of the operation depend ui^on the gland. This gland varies in size, in density, and in the closeness of its attachments. These variations are probably never normal, but are in- cident to changes connected with cancer of the tongue. As soon as the gland has been turned out of its bed, steps must be taken to keep the wound quite bloodless. Other complications are afforded by a matting together of parts by a past inflammation, by the presence of unusual veins, or of enlarged lymphatic glands. As the wound becomes deep, and the area of the opera-