8 Nursing Handbooks, &c. The Tale of a Field Hospital, bj Sir Frederick Treves, Bart., K.C.V.O., C.B., F.R.C.S., LL.D. With 14 Illustrations. Cloth,/>».; leather, <?s. Cookery for Common Ailments. b> A Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, and Phyllis Browne. Limp cloth, is. “Cram-full of information, overflowing with helpful detail and invaluable advice."— Pall Mall Gazette, Handbook of Nursing or the Home and for the Hospital. By Catherine J. Wood, Lady Superintendent of the Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond Street. Twenty- first Thousand, is. 6d. ; cloth, iis, “ A book which every mother of a family ought to have, as well as every nurse under training.”—Guardian. The Practical Nursing of Infants and Children. By Frank Cole Madden, M.B., B.S. Melh-, F.R.C.S. 288 pp., crown 8vo. 3s. 6d. Advice to Women on the Care of their Health, Before, During, and After Confinement. By Florence Stacpoole, Diplom^e of the London Obstetrical Society, etc. etc. A'«t> and Enlarged Edition, 2s. • “Is written very sensibly, and with no affectation of superior knowledge, but simply and directly to meet obvious wants in private home nursing."—Giasgew Herald. Our Sick and How to Take Care of Them; or. Plain Teaching on Sick Nursing at Home. By Florence Stacpoole. Fourth Edition. Paper covers. Is.; or cloth, ts. 6d. “Well written and very much to the point. The book will be valuable to anyone caUed upon to perform the responsible and arduous duty of nursing the sickf-British Medical ^ourftal, Cassell & Company’s COMPLETE CATALOGUE, cov- taining partial!ars of upivards of One Thousand Volumes, including Bibles and Religious M'orks, Illustrated and Fine Art Volumes, Children's Books, Dictionaries, Educational Works, History, Natural History, Household and Domestic Treatises, Science, Travels, 6rV., together with a Synopsis of their numerous Illustrated Serial Publications, sent post free on application. CASSELL & COMPANY, Limited, Ludgate Hilt, London; Paris, Neiu York Melbourne.