CHAP. XII.] AMPUTATIONS. 149 to follow exactly the outei' horcler of the foot as far as the external tuberosity of the os calcis (e). It is then curved up a little to end at the insertion of the tendo Achillis at A. {See also Fig. 49, e, and Fig. 50, a). The foot must be turned from side to side by the surgeon’s left hand as the devious line of this incision is followed. The knife at first divides only the skin and the subcutaneous tissue. It is then made to follow the incision a second time—when the skin has retracted a little—and is carried to the bone. Care must be taken that the knife goes well down to the bone, and that all the soft parts are divided. To effect this the blade must be used with considerable vigour. The border or surface of the foot that is attached must be put upon the stretch, so that the tendons are cleanly divided. The peronei tendons are especially difficult to cut. In making these deep sweeps with the knife the surgeon must take great care to avoid opening any joints, notably those between the scaphoid and the cuneiform bones. 2. The Distirticulation.—The leg diaving been flexed upon the thigh, the assistant turns the knee in with one hand and presses the lower part of the leg against the edge of the couch witli the other. The foot projects beyond the edge of the table, with its outer surface well exposed and lying horizontally. Let the dorsal pai’t of the flap (Fig. 48, x to a) be now dissected up sufficiently to well expose the head of the astragalus ; divide the tendo Achillis ; open the astragalo- scaphoid joint on its dorsal aspect. Keep the knife between the bones, and, cutting backwards, pass it between the os calcis and the astragalus, and .so sever the interosseous ligament. This entails no difficulty if the outer surface of the foot be well exposed, and kept upon the stretch with the left hand. As the. ligament is divided, turn the os calcis more and more out. See that all the tendons, etc., are divided on the outer side of the foot, and that the outer aspect of the os calcis is bared to the periosteum. Now with the left hand twist the foot round until it is in the position of the extremest varus. In this position