478 [part XIV. SURGICAL OPERATIONS. and costal cartilages the anterior perforating vessels must not be cut too close to their j^oints of emergence. As a rule they can be secured by pressure forceps before being cut across. The breast, with the underlying muscle, is now drawn downwards and outwards, and the pectoral insertion divided cautiously so as to expose the axillary vessels, the incision being made at right angles to the tibres. With ordinary care there is no risk of damaging the axillary vein, as a layer of fascia and some fat separate the muscle from it. Some surgeons recommend that the pectoralis minor should invariably be removed at the same time. This is not always necessary, and somewhat increases the severity of the operation. In completing the removal of the breast and axillary contents, the serratus magnus, the subscapu- laris, the axillary vessels, and nerves will be laid bare. It is well to expose the vein early, and the handle of the scalpel or a blunt dissector will be used to detach the chain of lymphatic glands which runs along.side it. Now and then it may be necessary to exci.se part of the axillary vein between two ligatures in order to get away adherent glands. This should be avoided, if possible, as the cephalic vein may be deficient, and oedema of the arm is then apt to follow. The intercosto-humeral nerve will often require to be divided, leading to subsequent numbness at the lower and inner part of the arm, but the subscapular nerves, the corresponding artery and vein, and the long thoracic nerve should be spared. Branches of the subscapular and axillary vessels to the lymphatic glands will necessarily be divided, and all such vessels should, if possible, be clamped before their section. Careful search should be made for the lymphatic glands which lie close to the coracoid process and first rib, and they should be removed, whether apparently infected or not. It is now convenient to mention the following general points with regard to excision of the breast: (1) All bleeding points should Ije picked up neatly, and riot gralibed