SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 318 [part VIII. tlirusting it through the septum which separates the emptied from the adjacent full cavity. In this manner the whole tumour may be emptied of its fluid contents, and its bulk so reduced that it may be drawn through the abdom- inal opening without undue force ” (Sir Spencer Wells). If the cyst be of moderate size or small it may be re- moved entire without tapping. This implies a larger abdominal incision, but the tumour remains firm and distinct, and is readily handled. 5. Keiiioval of llio Cyst.—As soon as the part of the cyst that has been pierced by the trocar is well free of the abdominal cavity, the cyst wall may be grasped by two Nekton’s volselk, and traction upon the main body of the tumour made by means of these instruments. At this time also the sponge introduced at the lower angle of the incision may be removed. As the cyst is drawn outside the abdomen, the chief assistant follows it, as it were, from above. By means of two large sponges—one held in each hand —he keeps the edges of the upper part of the wound together, exercises geijtle pressure upon the escaping cyst, and prevents the protrusion of any coil of intestine or of the omentum. If the tumour be still of large size, any remaining secondary cysts may be tapped with a common trocar, or the supporting septa may be broken down with the fingers. When the secondary cysts are small and numerous, and the mass feels semi-solid, or when abundant glandular growths exist, the substance of the tumour may be broken up by the hand. To effect this the trocar puncture must be enlarged, and, the edges of the opening having been grasped by Nekton’s volsella, the hand can be introduced. Care must be taken that the forceps are so held that none of the broken-down contents can find their way into the abdominal cavity. In manipulating the cyst, and especially when freeing it from adhesions, it is possible to tear the cyst wall and to allow the cyst contents to escape into the peritoneal cavity. The accident is not a serious one, as the fluid is nearly always quite sterile. If the rent be small, it may