CHAP. I.] 455 HEMORRHOIDS. tlie sul)mucoiis tissue until it is attached only by the healthy mvicous membrane above it, and by the vessels that are descending to enter it. As the vessels come from above and run just beneath the mucous membrane, and enter the upper })art of the hfemorrhoid, this detachment is readily and safely accomplished, and the bleeding is very trivial. The detachment should be sufficiently extensive to form a deep groove. The forceps are now handed to an attendant, who maintains a traction upon the pile, while the surgeon places a silk ligature round its pedicle, which he at once proceeds to tie as tightly as possible. The ligature should not be too thick, and it should not be applied with such violence as to cut the pedicle of the pile entirely through. Before tightening the knot, the ligature should be so manipulated as to include the highest part of the mucous membrane left attached to the pile. There are two points to be specially attended to in applying the ligatures. The groove in which each lies must be made within the margin of the exteimal sphincter, so that the ligature includes no part of the muscle. Secondly, there must be no risk of the ligature slipping after the stump has been returned, for most ti-oublesome hjemorrhage may then result. The tighter it is tied the better, and a third knot should be made for security. The scissors should not be apjdied too closely to the ligatures. The number of ligatures to be applied will of course vary. More than five will seldom be required. The operation is completed by cutting the ligatures off, and by snipping away about two-thirds of the sti'angulateil luemorrhoidal tissues which project beyond tie knot. The ])arts are lightly dried and returned within the sphincter. A soft pad of moistened gauze, o^■er which is a square pad of absorbent wool, is then secured in place by a firm T-bandage. It is customary to insert a suppositoiy con- taining a quarter to half a grain of morphia within the rectum before applying the dressing. 2. Excision of liic lliciiioi’iiioitlal Ai-ca ( HV/i/'fl- head’s Operation).—The })atient is secured in the litho-