OHAP. vn.] 227 EXCISION OF JOINTS. The inner part of the wound is first dealt with. The inner half of the triceps tendon is peeled from the olecranon with as much periosteum as possible. The hollow between the olecranon and the internal condyle is now cleared until that process of bone is reached and is left bare and projecting. If the operator keep close to the bones, and observe the three rules just laid down, there is no reasonable danger of wounding the ulnar nerve. The internal lateral ligament is stripped oflf from both humerus and ulna, and the periosteum is so separated as to carry with it the origin of the flexor muscles. The siu’geon now turns to the outer part of the incision, separating the tissues on that side until the outer epicondyle is reached and laid bai-e. In this stage of the operation the outer half of the triceps tendon will be separated and drawn aside without severing its connec- tion with the deep fascia of the forearm, the anconeus will be raised from the ulna, the external lateral ligament and the origin of the mass of extensor muscles will be separated from the humerus, and the supinator brevis will be turned well aside. Hei-e again strong retractors are of great service. It is during this part of ■ the procedure that damage may be done to the posterior interosseous nerve. On both sides of the humerus the muscular origins should not be stripped otf the bone higlier than is required to clear the latter for the saw. It is hardly ever necessary to divide the bone much above the widest part—i.e. the level of the epicondyles. The bones of the joint are now free of one another except upon their anterior aspect. (c) Sawing off the End of the Ihtmerus,—The elbow should now be fully flexed, and without much difficulty the lower end of the humerus can be made to project into the wound. The patient’s hand should then be placed in the prone position upon the operating table. In this attitude it can be firmly held, the lower ends of the radius and ulna being fixed rigidly upon the table. The assistant who grasps tjie upper arm should project the lower end of the