448 [part XI. SURGICAL OPERATIONS. lias become adherent to the testis or is the seat of sinuses, two elliptical incisions that clear the affected skin and meet above and below should be made. The position of these elliptical cuts must obviously depend upon the position of the implicated skin, and they may have to be made upon the lateral or even the posterior aspects of the scrotum. In dividing the tissues between the skin and the tunica vaginalis, the soft parts should be gently moved to and fro by the left hand, which still keeps its position on the scrotum. The mobility of the superficial layers is striking, but the tunica as it is approached is recognised by its perfect immobility. When the skin is involved, this means of noting the progressive depths of the incision is lost. The testis may be removed without opening the tunica vaginalis. In such case the tunica, as a simple bag, may be separated from the scrotal tissues with the fingers. While this is being done, the assistant should hold the scrotum and the testicle of the opposite side. In a large number of cases, however, it is desirable that the tunica should be opened: first, for diagnostic reasons; second, to lessen the bulk of the swelling when the sac is distended with much fluid ; Third, when the tunica is adherent, owing to the progress of the growth or the disease. The testis is now shelled out of the scrotal tissues with the fingers. It is practically torn out, and at this step all cutting should be avoided, except when a point resists the fingers. Even after the serous sac has been opened, the tunica vaginalis can very usually be shelled out together with the testis, to which it clings. If the testis alone be disturbed, the connections between the visceral and parietal layers of the tunica must be cut with scissors. In exposing the tumour, care should be taken not to cut into it. The operation is complicated by opening an abscess cavity or a cyst, or by cutting into a mass of soft growth. The cord is now well isolated with the fingers, and drawn down. It is then secured by a clamp. The best