r.7 LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. CHAP. V. I The exposure of tlie deep epigasti'ic artery would a[»pear to be no objection to the operation advised. It is easily avoided. It has not been shown that any special evils have attended the making of the incision close to the openings of the inguinal canal. 2. Tiie Iiitraperitoiionl JTIcfho«l.—The patient is prepared as for an abdominal operation, and all the pre- cautions adopted in such an operation are observed. The |)atient should be placed in the Trendelenburg position, which causes the intestines to fall away from the artery. The incision is made in the semilunar line close above the groin, and is about three inches in length. Any coils of bowel which may present themselves in the operation area are kej)t away either by sponges or by a suitable retractor, or by both. As soon as the artery is exposed, the posterior p;u’ietal peritoneum which covers the vessel is picked up and is neatly divided directly over the artery and parallel to the long axis of the vessel. Care is taken of the various .structures which cross the artery. The needle is passed from the vein. Care must be taken to avoid the deep epigasti’ic artery in dividing the pai-ietes. This vessel will probably have to Vie ligatured and divided. The incision in the posterior parietal ]ieritoneum must be free, in order that the arter}^ may be well expo.sed and the structures in relation with it precisely identified. A good light is needed. Some surgeons suture the divided posterior peritoneum over the artci’y, but such a measure is not called for. COMMON ILIAC AUTEIIY. The Line of the'Artery has already been given (page 51). 1. 'I’lie r]vti’ai>(‘i'itoiie:il Operalion (Aiitci'ioi- — The preparation and position of the patient ai’e the same as have been already described in dealing with the external iliac artery (page 51). In stripping off the peritoneum the patient should be turned a little upon the sound side, in ordei- that the intestines may be carried away from the wound are.a.