391 CHAP. XII.] NEPHRO-LITHOTOM Y. muscle run upwards and inward.s. Piei’cing the fascia near tlie rib there may possibly be seen branches of the last dorsal nerve and last intercostal artery, and, nearer the iliac crest, the first lumbar nerve and a branch of the last lumbar artery. J3oth muscle and aponeurosis are divided to the full length of the wound. No director should be employed, and any bleeding points which give trouble may be liga- tured, as pressure forceps are apt to be in the way. It is, however, very rarely that there is any need for a ligature at this stage. The anterior or outer edge of the quadratus lumborum, and the anterior layer of the fascia lumborum, are exposed. The latter is freely divided. The muscle may be severed if it encroaches on the field of the operation. As each layer of tissue is divided, the several parts are retracted by means of broad, rectangular metal retractors. The fascia transversalis is now reached and divided, when the perirenal fatty tissue Is exposed. The retractors are made to take up the whole of the severed structures down to the exposed fatty capsule, and the depths of the wound are laid open to the utmost. The perirenal adipose tissue is now opened up with the forceps and finger, and the kidney is reached and laid bare. In order to bring it well into the field of the operation, an assistant should press the anterior wall of the abdomen wdth the palms of both hands towards the exposed loin, and endeavour, as it were, to force the kidney into the incision. Through the free opening made in the perirenal fat the finger is introduced and the whole kidney systematically examined. If long-standing inflammation has been present, the surrounding tissues will be confused, will be matted to- gether, and will offer a more or less firm resistance to the exploring finger. 2. Dt^toctioii Keiiioval ol' tlie —Tlie use of the skiagraph has simplifled both these procedures. It is possible that the exact position, size, and imighly the number of calculi present in the kidney (for they care often multiple) can be thus determined beforehand. With its