377 CHAP. X.] GASTRO-JEJ UN0ST03IY. —i.e., the side ali’eady dealt with—the needle traversing all the coats. It is often advisable to cut away with scissors the protruding edges of the mucous membrane. If a Robson’s bobbin be employed it is now introduced, and the line of continuous suture carried around in front of it, being firmly secured at each end by a knot. It only remains to make a tliird line of suture through the outer coats in front of the opening—i.e., to cover in the con- tinuous suture just made. In cutting through the stomach and intestine walls some small arteries are sure to bleed, but they rarely require ligature, as clamping with Wells’s forceps for a few minutes suffices to stop them. All sponges being counted and removed, the sides of the abdominal wound are held forward so that the stomach and the jejunum slip back, and the wound is closed in the usual manner. The method of suturing employed in the above opera- tion will perhaps be rendered clearer by recapitulation. The two linear incisions made through the outer coats only of stomach and jejunum should be of exactly the same length ; they mark the size and position of the anastomotic opening. The first row of stitches, which take a firm hold of all but the mucous coats, fix the opposite surfaces of the two viscera together behind the linear incisions ; it saves time to use the continuous suture, knotting it after every three or four insertions of the needle. Many operators employ interrupted sutures. The next step is the com- pletion of the opening into both stomach and jejunum in front of the row just described. If the mucous membrane bulges, any redundant portion is cut away with scissors. The second row of sutures brings the edges of the opening into stomach and jejunum respectively into close contact all round ; here also the continuous method is the best and most rapid. The third row, which is j^i’actically a con- tinuous Lembert suture, is shown in Fig. 107 ; it traverses only the outer coats. Two or tlu’ee additional Lembert’s sutures at either end may be required to take off the strain on the others, and to prevent sharp kinking of the intestine. 2. Posterior Oasiro-jcjiinostoiny by l§iittiriii^. —This method differs from the preceding in the following