AMPUTATIONS. CHAP. XIV.] 161 front of the inner border of the tibia. The external vertical incision lies behind the fibula. • (1) The surgeon stands in the position already indicated. On the right side the foot should be turned well out, and the inner vertical incision made from above downwards to the level of the insertion of the tendo Achillis. The foot being now turned inwards, the external vertical incision is made in like manner from above downwards, and meets the companion cut at the tendo Achillis insertion. On the left limb the foot may at first be turned inwards, and the cutting of the flap be commenced on the outer side. The incision should involve the skin only, and should be so made that the integuments can retract well all round. The tendo Achillis is now divided. (2) The next step in the operation must be carefully performed. The limb having been well turned upon its outer side, an incision is made thi'ough the exposed muscles down to the tibia. This deep incision, which follows the line of the skin-cut, may be about two inches in length. It should be deepened by separating the muscles from the tibia. The limb is then turned upon its inner side, and a like incision is made down to the hbula, and the wound is deepened, as far as it extends, by separating the muscles from that bone. In this manner two deep lateral slips or gaps [fentes] are made dovvn to the bones through the whole thickness of the posterior flap. The thumb having been thrust into one of these gaps, and the forefinger into the other, the soft parts at the back of the limb can be pinched up by the surgeon’s left hand. The foot is maintained in the flexed position, while the posterior flap is completed by cutting from without inwards. The posterior flap so fashioned leaves the bones and the interosseous membrane practically free. (3) The anterior flap is now cut. The soft parts are divided down to the bones as soon as the skin has fully retracted, and are then dissected up so as to leave the bones and the interosseous membrane on this aspect of the limb practically bare also. (4) Retractors having been adjusted and the inter- o