6 Manuals for Students oi Medicine {continued). Elements of Surgical Pathology. By A. J. Pepper, M.S., M.B., F.K.C.S., Surgeon and Teacher of Practicil Surgery at St. Mary's Hospital. Illustrated with 99 En- gravings. Fourth Edition^ rewritten and enlarged. ^d. “ A student engaged In surgical work will find Mr. Pepper's 'Surgical Pathology ' to be an invaluable guide, leading him on to that correct comprehension of tlie duties of a practical and scientific surgeon which Is the groundwork of the highest type of British Surgery.*’—Medical JoumaL Elements of Human Physiology. By Henry Power, M.B. (Lond.), F.R.C.S., Professor of Physiology, Royal Veterinary College. With 83 Engravings and Coloured Plate of Spectra. 7«. ‘‘ The author has brought to the elucidation of his subject the knowledge gained by many years of teaching and examining, and has communicated his thoughts In easy, clear, and forcible language, so that the work Is entirely brought within the compass of every student It supplies a want that has long been telt."—7%. Lanctt. Materia Medica and Therapeutics. An IntroductJon to the Rational Treatment of Disease. By J, Mitchell Bruce, M.A., M.D., LL.D., F.R.C.P., Physician and Lecturer on Clinical Medicine at Charing Cross Hospital. 7«# 6'd. “We welcome Its appearance with much pleasure, and feel sure that It will be received on all sides with that favour which It richly deserves."—Medical yournaU A Manual of Chemistry : Inorganic and Organic, with an Introduction to the Study of Chemistry. For the Use of Students of Medicine. By Artliur P. Luff, M.D., B.Sc. Lond., F.R.C.P.; and Frederic James M. Page, B.Sc. Lend., F.I.e. With 40 Illustrations. 7a. 6d. Elements of Surgical Diagnosis: A Manual for the Wards. By a. Pearce Gould, M.S., M.B., F.R.C.S., Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Surgerj' at the Middlesex Hospital, &c. AVw a»ii Enlarged Edition, its. Comparative Anatomy and Physio= logy. By F. Jeffrey Bell, M.A., Emeritus Professor of Com- parative Anatomy at King’s College. With 229 Engravings. 7s. 6d, The Elements of Physiological Phy= sics. An Outline of the Elementary Facts, Principles, and Methods of Physics and their Application in Physiology. By J. McGregor-RoLertSOn, M.A., M.B., &c. &c., formerly Lecturer on Physiology, Upiversity of Glasgow. With 219 Illustrations. 7s. 6d. " Mr. McGregor-Robertson has done the student the greatest service In collectiii.g togeUicr In a bandy volume descriptions of the experiments usually performed, and of the apparatus concerned In performing them."—Tfu Lancet.