CHAP. I.] 81 AMPUTATIONS. to one diameter and a half of the limb, is employed. The following is the description of an amputation of the arm by double flaps cut by transfixion as given in Heath’s “ Opera- tive Surgery ” :—“ The limb being held away from the trunk by an assistant, the operator grasps the biceps, with the brachial vessels and nerves, and entering the point of the knife upwards close below his thumb, passes it in front of the humerus, depressing the point as it appears on the opposite side close to the operator’s fingers. With a .steady sawing movement, a flap from two to tbi’ee inches long is cut, with the skin left longer than the muscles. Drawing up the fla]3 with his fingei’s, the operator passes the knife behind the bone, and cuts a slightly lai’ger flap behind, bringing out the knife abruptlj^ at the last. Both flaps being gently retracted, the knife is swept round the bone, which is then sawn steadily through, the thumb and fingers of the left hand protecting the soft tissues.” By another method the skin incisions may be made by cutting from without inwards, and the exposed muscles be then divided by transfixion. This is illustrated by the amputation of the arm by antero-posterior flaps. (5) In cutting a flap from without inwards, the out- line of the future flap is at first marked out by an incision which concerns only the skin and the subcutaneous tissues. When the skin has retracted, the muscles are divided down to the bone by cutting from without inwards. For this purpose a small but strong knife is employed, and the edge is directed obliquely towards the bone, so that the muscular tissue shall be cut unevenly, the thinnest section being along the margin of the flap, the thickest at its base. An illustration of this method is afforded by the dis- articulation at the shoulder-joint by an external or deltoid flap. ■ As the skin is allowed to retract before any muscular tissue is cut, the integument of the stump must of necessity be longer than the contained muscle. (c) In separating a flap by dissection, the flap is at first marked out by a skin incision, and when the integuments