199 CHAP, xvni.] AMPUTATIONS. difficult part of the operation. If it is not well done, a pocket is left in the Hap at the site of that process. 1 hemorrhage.—The sciatic artery and branches of the gluteal in the posterior flap should first be secured ; then the internal circumflex, close to the inner side of the ace- tabulum. The superficial femoral is divided near to the free extremity of the anterior flap. The profunda is usually found severed about the middle of the cut surface of the flap. In the outer part of the same flap the external cir- cumflex will be found, and will require a ligature. The femoral and profunda veins should be ligatured. Coiiiiiiciit.—Of these various operation.s, those by the racket method may be considered to be the best. 1. The External Racket method has the following points to recommend it:— («) The elastic tourniquet can be applied. (b) The femur is approached through the least vascular part of the limb, and disarticulation may be effected before the main mass of the muscles of the thigh has been cut. (c) The vessels of the part are divided transversely, and the main artery is severed late in the operation. (d) Owing to the low position of the incision pos- teriorly, the branches of the gluteal and sciatic artery are but little interfered with, and the hoemorrhage from these vessels is comparatively trifling. (e) The muscles are divided transversely, and the wound surface therefore is small. The main muscular masses ai-e divided low down, so that in a sense the limb is r’emoved at a point farther from the trunk than obtains in some of the other amputations, and shock is hereby diminished. {/) An excellent stump is provided—i.e., the ischium (the main point from which the future ai’tificial limb will take its suppoifl) is well covered; the cicatrix is brought to the outer side of the limb, and is as far removed fi’om the anus as possible ; excellent di’ainage is provided for. {(/) The position of the vertical incision will pei-init of the hip being explored before operation, or of an excision being carried out should it be revealed that amputation is not necessary.