( C11A1-. x.J GASTRO-JEJUNOHTOMY. wiry contents of the stomach passing into the descending limb of the jejunal loop. For this reason the intestine should be so sutured that its axis may correspond with that of the stomach—i.e., both running from left to right. Fui’ther, the direction of the loop secured should be obliquely downwai’ds. Kc<niire<l. — These are of a simple kind, and no s|)ecial instruments are needed. Murphy’s button or Mayo Robson’s bone bobbin may be used at the discretion of tlie operator. Straight and curved needles threaded with fine sterilised silk should be^)repared. A fine scali)el, dissecting and pre.ssure forcep.s, and straight, fine- ])ointed scissors are essential. No clamps are requii’ed for either tlie stomach or the intestine. 1. Anterior Gastro-Jejiiiiostoiiiy by Siifnriiiy:. —The abdomen is opened in the middle line above the umljilicus, and the stomach region is explored. The great •omentum is pushed to the left, the first coil of jejunum is identified in the manner described and is then drawn forwards in front of the transverse colon, so that it can be brought in contact with the stomach. The anterior wall of the latter is brought out of the wound, as well as the piece of jejunum, and both are packed round with sponges or gauze compresses. Care is taken that there is no strain j)ut uj)on the jejunum when it is drawn into place. If tlie loop of jejunum be too short it acts as a strap across the transverse colon, and drags iq^on the stomach. The selected coil of jejunum is held by an assistant, whose fingers act as compressors. No clamps are needed. Tlie stomach also is drawn into the parietal wound, and the point at which it is to be opened decided upon. A linear incision, one and a half inches in length, is now made through the outer coats only of both jejunum and stomach, the incisions being exactly opposite to each other. ’ With a needle threaded with fine silk a continuous suture is passed parallel to the two incisions and posterior to them; this is knotted at each end, and the two surfaces of stomach and jejunum are thus brought closely together. The free ends may be left long and secured with forceps. The suture should take a firm hold, going as deeply as the suVmuicous