AMPUTATIONS. 165 CHAP, xrv.] B.—AMPUTATION THROUGH THE MIDDLE OF THE LEG. The procedure best adapted for this region is the following Amputation by a l.arg^e Posterior Flap {Hey’s Operation). Instruments.—An amputating-knife with a blade about live inches in length ; a stout scalpel; an amputating-saw ; retractors (the linen retractor used to protect the parts during the sawing of the bones may have three tails, the central and narrower slip being passed thx’ough the inter- osseous space); pressure forceps ; artery and dissecting for- ceps ; a periosteal elevator or rugine; scissors, etc. Position.—The patient lies upon the back, with the leg and knee beyond the end of the table. In dealing with the right limb, the surgeon stands to the outer side of the leg; in dealing with the left limb, to the inner side. One as- sistant stands or sits facing the end of the table. He holds the foot and leg, and manipulates it during the operation. A second assistant stands facing the surgeon and to the left of the patient, and attends to the sponging, etc. The circumference of the limb at the saw-line having been noted, the posterior flap is so made that its length and breadth are equal to a third of that measurement—i.e. are equal to the diameter of the limb. The anterior flap is about a third of the length of the posterior one. The large posterior flap is U-shaped. The main incisions are commenced about one inch below the point at which the bones are divided. The inner limb of the U of the posterior flap is just behind the internal border of the tibia, while the outer limb of the U runs posteriorly to the peronei muscles (Fig. 53, b). These muscles are consequently found divided in the anterior flap. (1) The operation is commenced by cutting the large flap. On the right side the limb is turned upon its outer surface {i.e. with that surface looking downwards), the knee is flexed, and the inner vertical incision is made from above downwards. The inner segment of the bend of the U is then completed. The leg is now turned upon its inner