25 CHAP. III.] LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. keeps under cover of the clavicle. The fascia surrounding the subclavian is fairly substantial. The needle (unthreaded) may now be very carefully passed from above downwards and from behind forwards. Its course must be directed by the forefinger of the left hand. B3' this finger the vein is protected and held out of the way. If the needle be passed from below—i.e. from the vein—it is easy to pick up the last cord of the plexus with the artery. The pleura has been wounded by a needle which has been carelessly passed. This accident cannot occur if the needle be passed between the artery and the upper surface of the first rib. The operation is ditficult, and requires a steady hand and perfect control over the scalpel and forceps. The parts should be cautiously exposed by means of the knife and the vivisector’s tool, and not by means of tearing and rending with the fingers and blunt instrifments. In order to obtain sufficient room, portions of the tra- pezius or of the sterno-mastoid may have to be cut. The transverse cervical or suprascapular arteries may be in the way. They should be drawn aside, but in no case divided, as they play a most important part in the collateral cii’culation. These arteries have been injured during the operation, as have also been the external jugular vein and the phrenic nerve. If the neck be short and the patient stout, the diffi- culties of the operation are much increased. Great difficulty will also be experienced when the veins have a plexiform arrangement or are engorged, and when the tissues are found to be cedematous and matted together. The pleura has been several times wounded in passing the needle, and in many of the fatal cases where this acci- dent is not noted the patient succumbed to intra-thoracic infiainmation. Both Liston and Green passed the ligature around the last cord of the brachial plexus by accident. South has seen the posterior scapular artery j^icked up and mistaken for the subclavian. In very few instances does the subclavian vein appear to have been wounded.