CHAP. XI.] 139 AMPUTATIONS. the knife cross the plantar surface transversely in the groove that separates the toe from the sole. Finally, curve the incision round the outer aspect of the toe to reach the dorsal wound at the centre of the metatarsal bone. The incision involves the skin only. Now deepen the dorsal cut. Divide the tendons of the extensor proprius and extensor brevis close to the metatar so-tarsal joint. Separate the soft parts from the inner and outer sides of the bone, keeping close to it, and cutting from the tarsus towards the toe. While effecting this separation the assistant turns the toe to one or other side, and the surgeon uses his left fingers to draw away the soft parts. The a.ssistant now partly extends the toe, and, the flexor tendon having been cut, the soft parts are dissected off from the plantar aspect of the bone. The bone should be bared back to the joint. The se,samoid bones are left behind. Care must be taken not to wound the communicating branch of the dorsalis pedis artery which runs between the two toes. The next step is to open the joint on the dorsal aspect, and so far as possible on the outer and inner sides. The surgeon now once more grasps the toe and divides the jdantar and remaining ligaments. Last of all, the tendons of the peroneus longus and tibialis anticus are cut, and the toe with its metatarsal bone is free. Cut the flexor tendon short, and close its sheath with fine catgut sutures. If the transverse cut at the commence- ment of the incision be not employed, the wound must start over the cuneiform bone. Hfemorrhage.—The dorsal digital branches (of the first interosseous artery) to the sides of the toe are divided in the dorsal incision. The inner one will probably need no attention. In the plantar aspect of the wound are divided the termination of the internal plantar artery, the first plantar digital artery, and the internal digital branch to the great toe. There is great risk of wounding the communi- cating branch of the dorsalis pedis in the gap between the first and second toes.