4 [part I. SVRGICAL OPERATIONS. or less evenly stained with blood, the finger—in a deep wound especially—affords the best means of differentiating the artery, the veins, and a companion nerve. To the touch the nerves feel firm, resisting, round, and cord-like. They cannot be flattened by the pressure of the finger. The veins greatly exceed the corresponding arteries in size. They often overlap these vessels. They feel soft and yielding, and thin-walled. They are easily compressed, and when so treated swell out upon the distal side. When the finger touches the compressed vein the vessel as a tube can scarcely be .appreciated. In this respect it is very difierent from the artery. The artery feels firmer and more elastic. It is not unlike a thin 'indiarubber tube to the touch. It is movable, and often slips about under the finger in a characteristic manner. It can be compressed, but not so readily as the vein. When flattened out Ijy the finger, an artery of moderate dimensions feels like a flat band or thong, thick and elastic, and hollowed out a little in the centre, so .that the margins feel thicker than the median part. Above all, it pulsates. There are many fallacies in this. The pulsations of the artery may be ti’ansmitted to the nerve (as in the case of the median nerve and the brachial), or to the companion vein. When the patient is under an ansesthetic, and when the pulse is feeble, or very rapid, the movement in the artery may be difficult to detect. If an aneurysm or pulsating growth exist, compression of the artery causes the pulsation in the tumour to cease. There may be one companion vein or two—the venw comites. All arteries below the knee are accompanied by veme comites. All arteries of the arm, forearm, and hand are attended in like manner. The arteries of the trunk, which are of small or of medium size, are for the most part accompanied by vense comites; such are the pudic, the deep epigastric, the deep circumflex iliac, and the internal mammary. The arteries in the head and neck are attended by single veins, the only noteworthy exception to this being the lingual artery.