SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [part IX. 428 recuiTence of the hernia will probably take place. The isolated .sac should now be divided transversely about an inch above the testicle. The lower part is formed into a tunica vaginalis. Tlie upper is pulled down as far as possible, and dealt with exactly as the sac of an acquh’ed hernia, additional precautions being necessary to clear the cord at the internal abdominal ring. It is freed of its connections, and placed as a pad on the abdominal a.spect of the circumference of the internal ring, or, better, twisted up and securely fixed by tendon or catgut sutures in a small aperture made in the oblique muscles above and to the outer side of the internal ring. O « Dressing: ami Aftei’-trcnfiiiciit.—A drainage-tube is never required. A light dressing of sterilised gauze is kept in place by a spica bandage, firmly applied when the thigh is slightly flexed at the hip-joint. A piece of macintosh or other protective is secured over the whole in the case of young children, to avoid tlie chance of accidental contamination of the dressings from without. The dressing is not disturbed for from ten to fourteen days, when the skin sutures are removed, unless a continuous catgut stitch has been employed, which will not need removal. R.A.DICAL CURE OF FEMORAL HERNIA. The sac is first completely isolated up to the femoral ring. Should it contain adherent omentum, the latter is . separated and returned within the abdomen. The neck of tlie sac is then transfixed by a mounted needle threaded with kangaroo tendon or stout catgut, the needle is with- drawn, and the ligature securely tied around the sac, which is then cut away below it. Each end of the ligature is then threaded on the handled needle, which is introduced from below upwards through the abdominal wall just above Poupart’s ligament, and the two ends are knotted together in front of the external oblique, so as to draw the pedicle away from the femoral ring. If the neck of the sac has but little fat around it and is therefore of slender proportion, it may conveniently be