[part II. 72 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. directly inwards towards the foramen ovale and foramen rotundum, which are situated at a depth of about 3 cm. or 1^ inches from the wall of the temporal fossa. Sufficient bone must be removed to allow of the introduction of the broad bent spatula or elevator by which the assistant raises the temporo-sphenoidal lobe in its case of dura mater. The inferior maxillary nerve must be clearly defined as it passes through the foramen ovale, and at this point the middle meningeal artery may be so much in the way as to require division. If the meningeal artery has to be tied, double ligatures of fine silk should be used, and the vessel divided between them ; it then becomes easy to expose the inferior maxillary nerve and the lower edge of the ganglion. Working for- wards for a distance of about half an inch, the foramen rotundum is reached, and the two main divisions of the fifth nerve are thus exposed. By blunt dissection (the dura mater is thin here and closely adherent) the upper surface of the ganglion is denuded. The inferior and superior maxillary nerves are now cut across, just as they enter the foramina ovale and rotundum. The ganglion is now free at its lower border; it is gently isolated and drawn forward with fine serrated forceps, and its roots are divided (Fig. 28). A small, drainage-tube is inserted and the flap sutured in place. It is unnecessary to put back any bone. The aperture left by trephining becomes so completely filled up with bone in a year or two that it can no longer be detected. THE SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE. Operation.—The shoulders are raised, the head is thrown a little back, and the face is turned to the opposite side. An incision three inches in length is made along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, commencing above at the tip of the mastoid process. The skin and superficial tissues having been divided, the anterior border of the muscle is exposed, and the cervical fascia freely opened. The neck being relaxed a little, the sterno-mastoid is