330 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [part VIII. bring out the two divided ends of the intestine d through the incision c (Fig. 96, c). The surgeon now passes a fine straight needle e through both sides of the double tube of bowel d. The suture is hooked up ^vhere it crosses the lumen of this tube, is divided, and tied on either side. In this way twenty sutures can be introduced with ten passages of the needle. The sutures are of fine silk, and serve to unite the divided intestine. Finally, the ligatures a and h are removed, and the sutured gut d is withdrawn (in the direction f), the invagination being thus reduced. The united bowel will now appear to be quite straight, and no sutures will be visible. D. Adjustment by the liitei'vciitioii of Foreig:ii Bodies. Suture over a Decalcified Bone Bobbin.—Mayo Robson’s bobbin (Fig. 91) is the best form to employ; it is kept, ready decalcified in spirit, in various sizes. In perform- ing end-to-end union of the intestine the largest bobbin that will fit the intestine is selected. Before introducing it, a continuous suture of silk (some employ catgut) is started on the posterior halves of the intestinal ends. This suture 'traverses all the coats, except the serous and outer muscular coats. The bobbin is now inserted, and held in place between finger and thumb of the assistant (acting through the intestinal wall). The continuous stitch is then carried all round the cut edges with here and there interruptions to make the suture tight. A second row of Lembert’s interrupted sutures, which traverse only the outer coats down to the submucous layer, completes the union. Instead of these, the outer suture may be made contin- uous, but in our belief nothing ensures such perfect apposition as Lembert’s interrupted stitches. Especial care is bestowed on the mesenteric border. The bone bobbin is probably of use only for a few hours after the operation {see page 325). Murphy's Button.—The method of employing the button (attempted modifications of which have at present effected no improvement) will be gathered from the accompanying figures (97, 98, and 99) more readily than from a long description.