78 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [part iii. by the divided skin; the apex of the funnel, or infun- dibulum, by the divided bone. {()) The circulai' amputation a la manchette is adapted for parts where the covei’ing of the bones is scanty and is composed of irregular tissues. Such a region is best illustrated by the wrist, where the bones are surrounded by many tendons, and where muscular tissue is scanty and unevenly disposed. In this method of amputating, the skin and sub- cutaneous tissues are turned up in the form of a cuflf, or manchette, and turned back like the cuff of a coat. The skin is divided, as in the previous operation, by circular incision, and is then, together with the sub- cutaneous tissues, turned back. The turning back of this cufi' is mainly effected by the fingers of the surgeon’s left hand. The skin is freed by the knife, which should always be held perpendicular to the surface. The cuff is not dissected up. It is gently freed and turned up. If the knife be passed obliquely beneath the skin which has to be everted, it is apt to be needlessly damaged. The cuff must be even and regulai', and of a size previously determined upon. The soft parts are then divided by a circular sweep, with the knife at the level of the retracted and everted skin. • 2. Tlic Modified Circular Metliod.—Three im- portant modifications need to be described : (a) In addition to the circular cut through the integuments, a vertical incision is made to join the original wound. The skin on either side of this vertical cut, and at the points where the cut joins the circle, is then reflected in the form of two im- perfect skin flaps. (b) Two vertical incisions are made to join the circular wound. By this use of the knife two squai’e skin flaps can be dissected up, and the muscles, when exposed, can be divided by a circular sweep of the knife. (c) Two very short flaps, of semi-lunar outline and of equal width and length, are dissected up. They are composed simply of the skin and the subcutaneous tissues, and consist