[part IX. 414 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. traverse its wall on either side, but a little way from its base. The incision is such as would be made to remove a pendulous tumour of like dimensions situated in the midst of comparatively lax tissues. The first incision is only skin deep, and the liernia must be moved from one side to the other with the left hand as occasion requires. The surgeon now deepens the wound on one side of the base of the mass, and, by cutting through tlie subcutaneous tissue, aims at exposing the aponeurosis of the abdomen a little way lieyond—i.e., to one side of the neck of the rupture. To effect this, such skin as covers the base of the protrusion is turned back. When once the aponeurosis is reached, it is followed allround the stalk of the tumour by deepening the incision. AVhen this has been done, tlie hernia, covei’ed by perfectly undisturbed skin, will be entirely isolated from all the tissues outside the abdomen, and will be attached only by its neck. The neck must, be well cleared, and the aponeurosis which liounds it, and which, therefore, forms the margin of the hernial orifice, must be laid (juite bare. The sac may now be opened at any convenient spot where it can be proved to be free from adhesion to its contents. The contents are exposed and are dealt with in the manner already described. Adhesions are divided, the bowel is freed, and, if in sound condition, is reduced into the abdomen. Before this can be done, the hernial orifice will need to be divided; and this can be effected by enlarging the opening above and below the neck of the sack in the median line with a probe-pointed bistoury. This division may be extraperitoneal. After the gut has been replaced, the omentum is excised, or dealt with in a manner suited to its condition. The omentum is best ligatured and cut through where it emerges from the abdomen, without regard to its adhesions to the sac. By this method considerable time is saved in the operation. The sac is at last emptied, and the hole leading into the abdomen is then plugged with a large Turkey sponge secured in a holder.