CHAP. 1.] 289 LARYNOOTOMY. The laryngotomy tube is shorter than that used for tracheotomy, and is oval on section. Some surgeons advise that the membrane be opened by a vertical incision, on the grounds that the operation can, if desired, be extended by dividing the cricoid cartilage, and that in the horizontal incision damage is usually in- flicted upon the crico-thyroid muscles, and possibly also upon the lateral crico-arytenoid muscles. Tliyrotoiiiy.—By thyrotomy is understood the division of the thyroid cartilage in the median line (Fig. 87, ii), so as to gain access to the interior of the larynx. The opera- tion is carried out in order to remove certain laryngeal growths, and certain large or impacted foreign bodies, especially such as have found their way into the ventricles. The operation involves a great danger of permanently interfering with vocalisation, and in the treatment of morbid growths it is only employed when tlie intralaryngeal method of removal cannot be effectually carried out. Thyrotomy offers a rapid and ready means of entirely eradicating laryngeal growths, and those advantages may be claimed for it which are ascribed to other radical operations. Tlie Operation.—The head is extended over a hard cushion or sand-bag, and is firmly held with the chin in a line with the sternal notch. The shoulders are raised. Chloroform is the anaesthetic administered. A preliminary laryngotomy or tracheotomy is carried out. The position of the opening for the tube will depend upon the nature of the case, the length of time the tube will probably have to be worn, and upon other circumstances. If the opei’a- tion threatens to be exteiisive, as in dealing with large gi’owths, a tracheotomy will be found to be the more convenient; but in such an operation as is carried out for the removal of a foreign body, a laryngotomy may be selected. If much haemorrhage is anticipated, as will be the case in dealing with extensive papillomata, the trachea nnist be plugged. This may be effected by a tampon, such as Trendelenburg’s tracheotomy tampon, or by gently plug- ]C