[rAKT Vlll. SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 302 least tlie source of the blood supply of the appendix. There may be no mesoappendix. The appendix may derive its blood supply direct fi’om ca^cal arteries, or direct from adhesions. I have found it supplied apparently wholly from adherent omentum. Sometimes the appendix is found to be fibrous and shrunken, and in such case its blood supply may be very small. I have removed such an appendix without .securing any vessels by ligature. In an uncomplicated case the appendix and its mesen- tery are readily brought out of the wound, and the rest of the operation may be described as it would apply to such a case. The mesoappendix is spread out. When the organ is involved in the csecal fossfe, this may not be readily done until the folds of peritoneum which hide the meso- appendix are neatly divided. These folds do not represent adhesions. Close to the base of the appendix a gap will always be noticed between the blood-vessels going to the little tube. The mesoappendix ils perforated at this gap, and a silk ligature is passed through by means of a pair of forceps. This ligature will suffice to secure the meso- appendix when it is small. When it is wide the membrane and its vessels should be secured by two silk ligatures. The mesoappendix is now divided between the ligature or ligatures and the appendix. Before it is cut, the meso- appendix on the proximal side of the ligatures is secured by pressure forceps to prevent it from slipping. The divided mesoappendix may need a second ligature before these forceps are detached and the stump is allowed to drop back. When the appendix is adherent the adhesions are dealt with similarly, and the organ about to be re- moved is entirely freed from its blood-vessels. IC<‘iiioviil or llio Appoiidix.—A ligature must be applied at the very base of the appendix. This ligature may be secured—if thought well—before the mesoappendix is dealt with. The ligature is of silk, and is passed through the gap between the vessels to which attention has been directed. The peritoneum is divided with a scalpel in a circular manner, at the point at which the ligature will come. The serous membrane is just suffi-