[PABT VIII. 400 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. the opemtiou area is absolutely clean, the wound in the parietes may be closed in the usual way, and a suitable dressing applied. No drainage is required. If, however, any septic matter has escaped into the cavity left by the removal of the kidney, then drainage should be employed. The drainage-tube is best carried through the loin at a convenient spot close to the anterior or outer edge of the quadratus lumboruin muscle. There is no need to close by sutures the rent made in the peritoneum. 1II. N EPIIRORRAPHY. This operation is ]iractised in exceptional cases of float- ing, movable, or wandering kidney, in which the organ is the seat of severe and spasmodic attacks of pain, due to torsion of the pedicle. It is occasionally also employed in special cases in which there is more or less continuous discomfort, and in which all other measures—such as the use of a carefully fitted abdominal belt—have failed. The operation was at one time somewhat indiscrimin- ately employed. It should be restricted to the exceptional case. Tlie Operation.—The kidney is exposed through the loin in the manner already described (page 389). When reached, it is well forced into the wound by an assistant, who presses upon it with both hands applied over the anterior abdominal wall. The fatty capsule is Avell opened up. Often very considerable difficulty will be experienced in fixing an unusually mobile organ. The posterior surface of the kidney in its capsule is thoroughly exposed and brought into the wound. A curved needle charged with fairly thick kangaroo tendon is passed through the muscular and aponeurotic edge at the upper end of the wound, and then, carefully avoiding the peritoneum, is made to pierce the upper part of the kidney. The needle dips into the kidney substance for half an inch or less, and emerges from one to two inches fi’om its point of entrance, so that the ligature gets a wide hold on the kidney. The needle is then passed through the opposite