[part vn. 302 SUROICAL OPERATIONS. inhaler with a metal tube (or by means of Hewitt's gag). The operator stands on the right side of the patient, the gag being inserted on the left. The assistant must be pro- vided with plenty of small pieces of sponge mounted in holders, and the position of the gag must be cai’efully super- vised—otherwise it is apt to slip forward. The instruments must be placed within easy reach of the operator, who will usually find it convenient to stand on a stool, so that he can look down into the back of the patient’s throat. When the gag is opened it often happens that the breathing becomes obstructed and the patient somewhat cyanosed ; this condi- tion should be relieved by traction on the tongue, made with the ligature and by holding the jaw forwards. With vulsellum forceps in the left hand and scissors in the right, the operator now excises the affected area of tongue. He must divide the mucous membrane at a con- siderable distance from the edge of the epithelioma, and continue the incision so that a large margin of healthy tongue is removed with the growth. Sometimes it is neces- sary to remove the entire organ, in other cases only one half; in some a wedge-shaped piece is removed. The bleed- ing, provided the lingual arteries have been properly secured, is mainly venous and insignificant in amount. Wells’s forceps should be applied, in case any vessel spurts. By turning the patient’s head to one side, and by careful sponging, the blood should be entirely prevented from running down the throat. Until the patient comes round from the anesthetic, he should be kept lying somewhat on the side, and a nurse should use a mounted sponge from time to time in the mouth. When he has come round the head and shoulders should be well supported by pillows, as venous oozing will be diminished by this means. Coiiiiiiciit.—If the submaxillary gland 'be removed, the preliminary stage requires to be slightly modified. The platysma and fascia are dissected off the gland and held up- wards ; the facial vein and "artery are exposed at the lower and posterior corner of the gland. Both vein and artery