355 CHAP. VIII.] COLOTOMY. versalis are cut tlirougli to a less extent, dissociation of their fibres being also employed. It is convenient to catch each muscle as it is divided by Wells’s forceps, which act as retractors. The transversalis fascia, subperitoneal fat, and peritoneum are then cut through. The forceps are then transferred to the cut edges of the peritoneum, and the surgeon proceeds to find the sigmoid flexure. It often happens that the first loop to present is small intestine. In this case it should be ptished inwards. The great omentum should be treated in the same way. The operator, working across the iliac fossa, recognises the sigmoid by its Ijeing bound to the former by its mesocolon, and draws the loop into the wound. Confirmation of its nature is obtained l>y seeing the longitudinal bands and apjiendices epiploicye. The loop must be drawn forwards into the wound, so that the whole circumfer-ence of the gut lies outside the peritoneum. This is nearly always 2-)racticable, unless the mesosigmoid be abnormally shoi’t. The loop should be followed inwards until the highest convenient part is secured, the rest being returned into the abdomen. The next step is to fix the loop in position. This may be effected in one of two ways. The simpler consists in pas.sing a wooden or ivory rod, three or four inches long, through the mesosigmoid from side to side; the rod then lests on the abdominal wall and prevents the intestine from being retracted. The other method, which is perhaps the better one, consists in jiassing a mattress suture of silk through the muscular edge on one side, then through the mesentery, the other muscular edge, and back again. The suture is then tied. Whichever method be employed, two sutures should be inserted to secure the sero-muscular coats of the bowel to the skin at either end of the wound. Cai'e should be taken to replace any piece of omentum that may protrude, and the stitches Just mentioned will tend to the avoidance of this accident when the patient strauis or vomits after coming round from the aniesthetic. The surgeon now decides whether or not to open the intestine at once. (1) If there has been no distension of