09 CHAP. II.] OPERATIONS UPON NERVES. upwai’cls from its angle, the other a continuation back- wards of tlie alveolar margin (Fig. 27). This point on the side of the cheek is well below the parotid duct and behind the facial vein ] the skin incision of one inch should be mainly horizontal, to avoid injury to the facial nerve, but it is convenient to curve it slightly. The masseter being exposed, its fibi’es are partly severed, but chiefly separated, until the bone is reached and bared with a periosteal elevator. .The pin of a small (half-inch) trephine is then inserted exactly at the spot above-mentioned, and when the outer table of comjiact bone is traversed the disc is removed by means of the elevator. It is almost certain that the groove containing the inferior dental nerve and vessels will be opened thereby, and it should very carefully be cleared on either side with a small chisel or bone-cutting forceps. The groove should be followed upwards and downwards, with due caution not to injure the inferior dental artery, until the nerve can be raised alone on a hook. With Thiersch’s forcejis a long piece of both ends of the divided nerve can sometimes be drawn out j if not, as much should be cut away as possible. The bone disc need not be rejflaced, and two or three flue sutures will suflice for the wound, which heals rapidly. The success of the operation depends chiefly on e.xactly following the landmark given, and avoiding injury to the companion artery. As a rule, the dental nerve lies just in front of the latter, and is readily di.stinguished, once the canal is opened, by its whiter colour. I'lio Giistafoiy JVerve.—The mouth having been opened and the cheek drawn aside, the tongue is drawn forward and towai-ds the opposite side. With the foi’eflnger the surgeon can define the ramus of the jaw and the pterygo-maxillary ligament. The nerve can usually be felt beneath the mucous membrane behind the last-named ligament, and about half an inch behind and below the last molar tooth. A vertical inci.sion, about an inch in length, is made through the mucous membrane over the nerve, and thei’e-