HMMORRHOIDS. CHAP. I.] 457 attached to the margins of the cut skin at four equidistant parts, which may be referred to as north, south, east, and west of the anal orifice. Pressure forceps ai’e also attached to corresponding points on the margin of the divided mucous membrane. By drawing in opposite directions any two companion forceps, the separation of the mucous membrane at that point is much assisted. The circular incision is gradually deepened, most con- veniently with blunt-pointed straight scissors aided by forceps. The separation of skin and mucous membrane is carried out until the external sphincter is recognised. Its most external fibi-es are indistinct, but there is very little difficulty in soon demonstrating its form as a circular band of mmscle, which is carefully preserved. As soon as the external sphincter is cleared, the separation of the mucous membrane becomes easy. The surgeon must remember that the operation consists in the excision of an unbroken circle of mucous membrane and submucous tissue containing veins, and of nothing else. The separation of this ring or tube of mucous membrane is readily accomplished by the blunt point of the scissors, aided by the finger, and at every step assisted by traction upon the forceps, which are fixed to the cut edge of the mucous membi’ane. To aid such traction, additional forceps (in excess of the four already in use) may be attached to the mucous membrane where needed. The tube of mucous membrane must be well and evenly isolated all round, and the separation must be continued up to a point at least half an inch above the intended line of section. The in- ternal sphincter is in no way disturbed. Up to this point the bleeding is trifling, and any vessels which give trouble are seized with pi-essure forceps and dealt with by torsion. The surgeon now proceeds to cut through the isolated tube of mucous membrane, which includes all the piles and, indeed, all the pile-bearing district. He introduces the fore- finger of the left hand into the mucous tube, and divides it in a circular line, which is at right angles to the long axis of the rectum. He makes the division bit by bit, while an assistant draws upon the forceps which have been fixed to