236 [part IV. SURGICAL OPERATIONS. A second and much shorter cut starts from the centre of the principal incision, is placed at right angles to it, and ends immediately below the tip of the outer malleolus. The two slight flaps thus defined are turned aside, and the bone exposed in the interval between the peroneus tertius and peroneus brevis tendons. The foot is well extended and inverted, and the liga- ments which connect the bone with the fibula, tibia, scaphoid, and os calcis are divided so far as they can be reached from the outer side. Retractors are used to protect the tendons, etc. The inner incision is about two inches in length, and, starting from just below the tip of the inner malleolus, is carried forwards and upwards just in front of the anterior margin of that bone. It will be curved, therefore, with the concavity backwards (Fig. 80, a). The remaining ligaments that hold the astragalus are now divided from the inner side. The siu’geon turns finally to the outer wound, and while the foot is inverted and extended, grasps the astragalus with lion forceps in a vertical direction, and as Farabeuf expresses it, “ whips it out like a molar.” The wound will need to be drained, and the limb to be firmly secured upon a splint or in plaster of Paris, with the foot at right angles to the leg. 2. The Os Calcis.—Among the many methods devised for the excision of tliis bone, the procedure described by Farabeuf appears to be upon the whole the best. The incision he recommends is a combination of the horse-shoe incision employed by Erichsen and the simpler skin-cut made use of by Ollier. The operation should be performed as far as is possible by the subperiosteal method. The patient lies upon the sound side, the leg is sup- ported upon a sand pillow, and the foot, turned well upon its inner border, is free. The incision, commencing at the base of the fifth meta- tarsal bone, is carried horizontally backwards just above the margin of the sole, and, passing round the hinder aspect