38G [part VIII. SURGICAL OPERATIONS. In most cases of impacted calculi, however, the stones can be reached through an incision made in the axis of the duct where it lies between the layers of the gastro hepatic omentum—i.e., above the duodenum. The incision is usually made directly over the calculus, the duct being steadied and held forward with the left hand ; the incision should be long enough to admit the index finger. The calculi are then extracted with a scoop, care being taken lest the rush of bile should soil the jjeritoneal cavity. The index finger is, if jjossible, introduced through the wound in the duct, and exploration made for any other stone. The most ditticult step of the operation is now to be carried out, that of suturing the small wound in the duct. Fine silk (No. 1) on a curved needle in a needle holder is employed, but the thinness of the duct may po.ssibly prevent the wound from being perfectly closed, and it is essential, therefore, to provide for subsequent leakage. Small metal hammers have been employed for the purpose of introduction into the duct to facilitate suture, but no advantage whatever attends their use. xVfter careful cleansing of the operation area and removal of all sponges, drainage is provided for by a rubber tube, one end of which is placed opposite the sutured duct; the tube is then lightly packed round Avith gauze, Avhich is brought out of the wound in the abdominal wall at its lowest point. Some surgeons dispense with the tube, using only the gauze drain. The greater part of the abdominal wound is then closed with silkworm-gut sutures. If a. calculus be detected in the ampulla behind the duodenum the following course should be adopted :—The descending portion of the bowel should be incised, and its lumen immediately clean.sed with sponges. AVhilst the ('dges of the intestinal wound are held a[)art by an assistant with the aid of stitch retractors, the operator steadies the calculus with the finders of the left hand, and incises the inner and posterior Avail of the duodenum as closely as possible to the opening of the common bile-duct. As some museum specimens shoAv, a large calculus may be found Avedged in the actual orifice, and in such a case it may not