466 CHAP. I.] TREPHINING. aspirating needle having been introduced and pus dis- covered, the next step is to insert a pair of slender sinus forceps by the side of the needle, and thus to enlarge the track along which the pus may escape. Along the passage thus made a drainage tube of india- rubber or of silver is introduced. Mr. Barker advises a silver tube, provided with a proper flange or shield, and of the diameter of a No. 8 catheter. The silver t\ibe, however, is rarely at hand when the operation is performed, and rubber answers well, as it allows of being shortened as required. A double or two-way tube is very convenient for syringipg. The length of tube within the skull should measure about one inch. The tube must be secured in place by sutures The flap is now adjusted, but the sutures may be omitted at the apex of the flap, so that the trephine-hole may not he entirely covered up, but there may be evei'y opportunity offered for the escape of matter. The wound is now cleaned and covered with a dressing of loose gauze. The part should be frequently irrigated, and hence the special advantage of the two-way tube. Any tube is apt to get blocked from time to time, but can usually be cleared without removing it. The rubber tube will be gradually shortened, and the surgeon should not be in great haste to remove it finally, since a reaccumu- lation of pus may occur. It will probably have to be retained for two or three weeks. If a branch of the middle meningeal artery be exposed in the trephine-hole, it should be secured between two liga- tures before the membrane is divided. 2. Tlie Operation for ff crcbellar Abscess.— The trephining is conducted upon the same lines. Mr. Barker recommends that the point be reached by means of an incision parallel with Reid’s base line, and half an inch below it. The cut starts from the posterior border of the mastoid process, and extends backwards for two inches. Through this incision the superior, curved line of the occipital bone is exposed. All the soft parts, together with the pericranium, are peeled downwards with a rugine until the inferior curved