294 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [part vii. < the posterior surface of the tumour cleared as far as the jj posterior median line. < Tlie other lateral lobe is dealt with in precisely the same I manner, and in due course the whole tumour is removed, I ivith care to leave some portion of the gland behind. f The wound is now examined, and any remaining I bleeding vessels ai’e secured. No irritating antiseptic | solutions should be used to the wound. Tlie less it is I rubbed with a sponge the better. The margins of the | skin incisions are united with silkworm-gut sutui*es, which 1 are not too closely applied. A drainage tube is rarely * necessary, though a fine spiral one will do no harm. The best dressing consists of a large pad of sterilised gauze and wool, the former being dry when applied. It is bandaged in position with as much pressure as it is j considei’ed safe to apply, by means of a light muslin bandage. When the patient is placed in bed, the shoulders and head must be kept well raised, and the head may be fixed in the hollow of a loosely-filled sand-bag. Partial Pxcisioii. — Excision of one-half of the thyroid, with division of the isthmus, is conducted in ;• precisely the same manner as the above operation. I The incision is xisually oblique, made along the anterior L border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The front of the ■* bronchocele is cleared, and the superior thyroid artery I secured. * After this vessel has been dealt with, the isthmus is ^ severed. Tlie fascia around it is divided, and the isthmus f is then separated from the trachea by an elevator or director, and is well isolated. It may then be transfixed j by a needle in a handle—such as is used in ovariotomy— » and secured by a double set of ligatures, which are placed • upon each side of the spot at which it is intended to di\ ide it. It is treated somewhat like the ovarian pedicle. In i cases of very large isthmus more ligatures may be called for. In some instances- the isthmus may be more con- veniently divided with a scalpel, and ligatures applied as required. 1