[part II. H8 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. page 70). After the dura mater has been reflected from the bone forming the floor of the middle fossa, the front part of the Gasserian ganglion is exposed, and the superior maxillary trunk defined to its point of exit thi-ough the foramen rotundum. The nerve is then excised with a flne knife, a portion from one-third to half an inch long being removed. It is unnecessary to tie the middle meningeal artery during this operation, which is a more complete and certain procedure than any kind of neurectomy performed on the branches of the superior maxillary division. Tlie Ti’iiiik or tlie liil'erior .Tlaxillai'.v ]\ci've at tlic Foramen Ovale.—A square vertical flap is cut from the cheek. The two sides of the Hap are represented by two ^•ertical lines which are parallel with the antei'ior and posterior borders of the ascending ramus of the jaw. The base of the flap is represented by a transverse line joining the two vertical incisions about half way down on the ramus of the jaw. The free end of the flap is a little above the zygoma. The incisions ai-e carried down to the bone at the fi'ee end of the flap. The zygomatic arch is exposed and its two ends are sawn through. The piece of bone is turned down, together with the masseter attached to it and the soft parts covering the upper part of the I’amus of the jaw. Care must be taken not to damage the facial nerve nor the parotid duct, both of which are below the base of the flap. The flap is drawn forcibly downwards rather than dissected up. After the bleeding has been arrested the coronoid process is divided, and with the attached temporal muscle is turned upwards. The upper head of the external pterygoid muscle is separated from its attachment to the sphenoid, and the nerve can now be exposed and divided with scissors. In the living subject the procedure is a very difficult one. I'lic liilcrior I>eiifiil Nerve.—Neurectomy of the Inferior Dental Nerve throrigh a Trei)liine A-perture in the Lower Jaw.—The point of bone to be aimed at is indicated on the ascending ramus by the meeting of two lines—one perpendicular to the lower border of the law passing