CHAP. X.] 371 GA8TR0T0MY. modification—that it may he conveniently placed a little less close to the margins of the ribs. ' If the foreign body can be distinctly felt through the parietes, then the incision may be made directly over it. The cut has been made in the left semilunar line. In removing unusually large foreign bodies, such as are repi’esented by masses of hair, the incision may be convenient!}’’ made in the median line. The exact position of any metallic body can be ascertained beforehand by radiography. The incision should be at first about two and a half inches in length. It may be enlarged subsequently as re- quired. The peritoneum is divided and the stomach sought for. If the contained foreign body be sharp-pointed, the mani- pulation of the stomach must be conducted with great care. When the surgeon lias determined upon the spot at which the opening into the stomach is to be made, two silkworm-gut sutures may be passed through the serous and muscular coats of the viscus, one on either side of the area selected for the incision. These sutures are allowed to form long loops, by means of which the stomach can be drawn forwards and held in place. The stomach wall should be gently drawn well into the parietal Avound, and before the opening is made the space between the viscus and the margins of the parietal incision must be plugged with sterilised gauze. The incision into the stomach should be transverse to the long axis of the A’iscus—i.e., in the line of the blood- vessels. As soon as the organ has been opened, the forefinger is introduced and the position of the foreign body made out. It should be so manipulated as to place it in the position best suited for ready removal. Forceps Avill probably be required to effect the extrac- tion. Care must be taken not to damage the Avail of the .stomach by careless manipulation, or by attempts to drag the foreign body through too small an incision. The next step is the closure of the wound by suture. Fine silk should be used for the purpose. The diAuded