G SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [parti. round the artery, being passed under that part of tlie slieath held up by the forceps. The sheath upon the opposite side of the incision should now be taken up with the forceps, and the needle be passed beneath the vessel so as to clear the remaining portion— the deep part—of its surface. The needle will .soon emerge in the wound upon the opposite side of the artery, when it should be threaded, and be then withdrawn, carrying the ligature with it. About one centimetre of the artery more or less is cleared. The needle should be kept throughout at riglit angles to the line of'the vessel. It should rarely be passed threaded. It is the usual practice to pass the needle from the vein. A moi’e important rule is to pass the needle from the forceps. It is often more convenient to pass it towards the vein. If the sheath has been well opened, and a w'ay for 'the ligature carefully cleared around the artery, there can be little excuse for forcing the point of the needle through the sheath into the companion vessel. The aneurysm needle must, of course, be really blunt pointed. When venae comites attend a deep artery of moderate size, such as the ulnar or posterior tibial, much time may be wasted and damage done by a determined attempt to separate the artery from the veins. This is especially the case when many transverse connecting branches pass aci'oss the artery. In such instances practice has shown that no evil results from including the two veins in the ligature. In dealing with still smaller arteries, such as the lingual, no attempt is made to avoid including the companion veins in the ligature. It is needless to say that the greatest care must be taken to avoid including a nerve in the ligatui’e. If the sheath be w'ell opened, and the needle be kept close to the artery and be passed I'ound with ease, there is little danger of including a nerve. If catgut or kangaroo tendon be used, they should have been rendered pliable by'a short immersion in sterilised water of a lower temperature than blood-heat.