406 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [part IX. with the point of the left forefinger, and the density of the stricture and the best point for introducing theliernia knife is determined upon. The finger must be used gently. There must be no attempt made to dilate the stricture with the finger, or to force, the finger through the constricted aper- ture. The part of the bowel that usually sufl'ers most in strangulated hernia is the part directly embraced by the stricture, and this is the part that will be crushed and bruised if persistent attempts be made to force the finger into the stricture. The forefinger lies with the nail towards the bowel, and the most the surgeon does is to make clear a point at which the hernia knife can be inserted. The finger is the best director: the hernia knife is passed along it with the blade fiat against the finger. Tlie point of the knife at last reaches the pulp of the finger that is pressed against the stricture, while the nail lies against the bowel. The point of the knife is passed, still on the flat, beyond the finger and into the ring. -It is then turned with its edge towards the stricture, and by a slight movement of the blade the stric- ture is divided. The left forefinger, or in case of a tight neck to the sac the little finger, acts throughout as a guide. It is retained in position after the knife has been withdrawn, and is then em|Dloyed to ascertain that the division of the stricture has been sufficiently complete. The knife is used with a gentle sawing movement; and with regard to the edge, it is better for it to be too blunt til an too sharp. In many instances the finger cannot be entirely relied upon, and a director must be used. This especially applies to cases where the neck is deeply placed, where the sti’icture is narrow and tight, and where a place for the introduction of the hernia knife cannot be made out by-the forefinger. The choice of the director employed must depend upon the habit of the operator and the nature of the case in hand. It is introduced with the right hand, guided by the left forefinger, and must be most carefully manipulated. The left forefinger and the director are employed in exactly the