AMPUTATIONS. 127 CHAP. IX. J in the extremity. In some cases ligature of the vein has been left to a later stage, when the anterior flap has been reflected. •iiMl Step.—"While the patient is still lying on the back, the body is brought as near to the couch as possible, and the shoulder is made to j^roject beyond it. An assistant draws the upper limb away from the body, and the surgeon .stands to the inner side of the limb, i.e. between it and the trunk. The whole of the scapular region should be free of the table, the back re,sting upon the hard cushion, which is at the very edge of the table, and the head being drawn to the opposite side. The assistant moves the lindj as recpih’ed during the cutting of the pectoro-axillary flap. The incision marking out this flap is commenced at the centre of the clavicular incision, is next curved downwards and outwards, passing just beyond (i.e. to the outside of ) the coracoid process, and then runs along the deltoid muscle, parallel to, but to the outer side of, the groove between that muscle and the pectoralis major (Fig. 40). On reaching the point where the anterior wall of the axilla joins the arm, the incision crosses the lower margin of the pectoralis major, and passing transversely across the skin upon the inner or axillary surface of the arm, reaches the lower margin of the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major. At this point the limb is well raised by the assistant, and the wound is completed by carrying the knife downwards and inwards, to stop over the posterior surface of the inner angle of the sca[)uia. In the last part of the course the knife follows the groove between the vertebral border of the scajDula and the muscular mass formed by the teres major and latissimus dorsi. Tlie incision involves at first only the skin and the sub- cutaneous tissues. The surgeon now dissects up the structures of the flap which comprise the soft parts of the pectoral and axillary regions. The pectoralis major is divided about where it is be- coming tendinous, the pectoralis minor is severed close to