427 CHAP. II.] RADICAL CURE OF HERNIA. vessels. In passing the uppermost sutures it has happened tliat the epigastric artery has been wounded and most- serious htemorrhage ensued, even neces.sitating ligature of the external iliac artery. It should also be noted that the lowest suture is not placed close to the os pubis, as the pillars cannot here be approximated, nor is it necessary to attempt it. ] n the female the round ligament may be disregarded and the canal obliterated completely. AVhen raising the cord in tlie male by blunt hooks in ordei’ to pass the sutures, it should be remembered that occasionally thrombosis of the spermatic veins has been produced—an accident which may also follow undue narrowing of the apertui’e made for the cord. Be}'ond the formation of a hard lump above the testicle and possibly oedema of the scrotum, little harm is likely to result, but in one or two cases symptoms of pulmonary embolism have been recoi-ded. Hence the operator should be careful to avoid undue traction on the spermatic vessels during the operation, and also to allow suflicient room for their passage through the abdominal wall. After the sutures have been tied and cut short, and the cord has been replaced over them, three or four fine catgut ligatures are usually required for the superficial vessels. The skin wound is then sewn up with silkworm gut. In congenital licrnin the sac is first isolated from the coi’d, and this is by far the most difficult part of the operation, since not only is the sac wall thin, but the spermatic vessels and the vas closely adhere to it, either projecting into or being spread out around it. Nevertheless, by patient dissection with toothed forceps and fine probe, it is always possible to .separate the sac from all the constituents of the cord at some point, and when once this has been effected it is easy to continue, the separation upwards and downwards. In young children the vas deferens is a very slender structure, and may easily be divided if the knife be used during the separation of the sac. The latter process must be complete—i.e. no peritoneal covering must be left on the cord, otherwise