287 CHAP, r.] TRACHEOTOMY. who have perfonued it only upon the dead subject must be at a loss to luulerstaud the terrible possibilities with which the inti'oductiou of a tracheotomy tube appears to be surrounded. In the adult, it is true, the operation is but rarely in any way dilHcultor complicated ; in an infant with a short, stout neck, on the other hand, it may be attended with not inconsiderable ditticulties. For the accidents which so often occur during tracheo- tomy, the hurry and excitement of the operation, and the fear that the child is ceasing to breathe, are in the main answerable, and not the anatomical conditions of the opera- tion itself. It must be expected that in alino.st every case there will be free venous bleeding. While it is well that the luemorrhage should be checked before the tube is intro- duced, lest blood find its way into the lung, yet too long a time should not be deA'oted to attempting to secure tin; vessels. As soon as the tube is introduced, air enters the lung more freely, the right side of the heart is relieved, and venous bleeding, which before was very copious, ceases almost immediately. The cervical fascia must be well and cleanly divided. The tube has many a tifne been introduced between the trachea and the imperfectly divided fascia, the operator being under the impression that it has been inserted into the wind]iipe. No air, however, escapes. In cases where an extensive membrane exists, it maj' escape division when the trachea is opened, and the tul)e may then be inserted between the membrane and the tracheal wall. In this case, also, no air escapes from the instrument. In most cases of tracheotomy performed by a novice, or carried out with undue haste, it will be observed that the time of the operation is more taken up by introducing the tube than by finding and incising the trachea. If the hook and the toothed forceps be used as des- cribed, all bungling over the insertion of the tube may be avoided. Some time may be spent in endeavouring to find the slit which has be(!ii already made in the trachea.