351 COLOTOMY. CHAP. VIII.] The surgeon must be convinced that his fingers are behind the peritoneum—which he is, indeed, separating from the posterior parietes—and that the subperitoneal fat has been fully opened up. Assuming that the colon has not yet been discovered, the curved forefinger should be placed in the angle between the psoas and quadratus lumborum muscles, and the patient should then be rolled over almost upon the side operated upon. The bowel that falls into the finger cannot well be other than the colon. Failing the rolling over of the body, the assistant who faces the surgeon may press upon the anterior abdominal parietes so as to force the intestines towards the loin. The surest guide to the non-distended colon is the feeling which is communicated when its coats are picked up between the forefinger and the thumb. The gut, when brought into view, may be identified by the thickness of its coats, by its non-peritoneal surface, and possibly by the existence of a longitudinal band. The band which comes into view is that known as the posterior. The bands of the large intestine are well seen in the ascending colon, but are less clearly marked in the descending segment of gut, the longitudinal layer of muscle becoming more evenly spread over the colon as the I'ectum is approached. The colon can be recognised by many means, without wasting time over a search for the pos- terior longitudinal band. The sacculi of the colon cannot be demonstrated, as a rule, through a lumbar colotomy wound. They are value- less as a means of identification. The appendices epiploicae can only be seen when the peritoneum has been opened, and when the colon has been drawn through the rent. In the search for the bowel great service is rendered by good broad I’ectangular retractors and a good light. When a distinct mesocolon exists, and the colon is empty, the peritoneal cavity must of necessity be opened up and a loop of the intestine drawn throxigh. If, however, the mesocolon can be identified—and on the