ABDOMINAL SECTION. 313 CHAP. I.] its way beneatli the peritoneum so as to become more or less entirely hidden, then the separation of the mass should always be eflected by dividing the peritoneum ai’ound it, and by enucleating it through the medium of the sub- peritoneal tissue. In such a proceeding care must be taken to note the position of the normal blood vessels of the part concerned. These are secured as they are met with. 3. Toilet of the Peritoiieiiui in Septic Cases.— In an abdominal opei’ation in which no septic material is encountered—and the majority of abdominal sections are of this type—the peritoneum needs very little if any attention. The serous membrane is very well able to look after itself, and the more one sees of abdominal ojDerations, the more one is impressed with the marvellous powers of the peri- toneum in this direction. It is well that any effusion, such as blood or cyst fluid, should be removed, but that object is never to be persisted in at the cost of extensive sponging. In cases where there has been an extensive extravasa- tion of septic fluid, it will be necessary to wash out the peritoneal cavity. For this purpose it is best to use plain water which has been sterilised by boiling, and which is kept about the temperature of the blood (100° F.). Care should be taken that this temperatui’e is not exceeded, and every operating theatre should be provided with apparatus for aseptic irrigation. In cases where peritonitis exists, or where fecal matter has escaped into the abdominal cavity, or where the extra- vasation consists of glairy cyst fluid, or of pus, or where much colloid or semi-solid matter has escaped, thorough flusliing out of the abdominal cavity with warm water is alone efficacious. As soon as the fluid poured in comes out clear, what re- mains may be taken up with a sponge. On completing the intra-abdominal operation, great care should be taken to ensure that no .sponge or instrument has been left in the depth of the cavity. 4. Closure of the Alxloiiiiiial WoiiikI.—In sew- ing up the incision made tlu’ough the abdominal wall, the