[part IV, SUROIGAL OPERATIONS. 254 Throughout the operation sponge pressure is the main means of checking hiemorrhage. 4. The operator should now separate the nasal carti- lages from the bones, ■and should then divide the nasal process. This may be done with a fine saw or a chisel. He should next proceed to divide the periosteum along the lower edge of the orbit. With the elevator the pex’iosteum of the floor of the oi’bit is carefully raised, and in effecting this the origin of the inferior oblique muscle is separated. With a fine chisel the orbital plate may be divided as far within the orbit as is necessary. The chisel-cut will commence at the point at which the nasal process of the maxilla has been divided, and will end at the spheno- maxillary fissure. If it be considered necessary to take away the whole of the orbital plate of the maxilla, then a chisel-cut can scarcely avail, and the bone must be wrenched away from its attachments in the final act of removal. The last step of this stage of the operation is to divide the malar bone. This may be done with a chisel or a small saw. The malar bone is divided obliquely (from above downwai’ds and outwards) at a point about the centre of the bone, and the saw or chisel is so applied that the section will extend into the spheno-maxillary fissure, the exact site of which should have been previously defined. 5. The palate part of the bone alone remains with its connections undistui’bed. The mouth having been well opened, the central incisor tooth on the diseased side is re- moved, the muco-periosteal covering of the hard palate is divided in the median line, and a knife is drawn along the floor of the nose from before backwards and as near as possible to the septum. By means of a transverse incision made through the mouth the soft palate is loosely separated froxn the hard. A keyhole saw is now introduced through the nose, and the bony palate divided as near to the median line as is possible. This step of the operation should be rapidly performed, as there is often much bleeding from the palatine arteries, which are necessarily divided.