389 NEPHRO-LITHOTOM Y. CHaVP. XII.] dealing with the stone:—A stout slender needle in a handle, or a hare-lip pin for sounding the calculus ; long-bladed tenotome; suitable probes and scoops ; steel director ; the smallest-sized bladder sound; Lister’s sinus forceps; dress- ing forceps ; gall-stone forceps. A small periosteal elevator may be useful in detaching some stones, and a No. 3 Duncan’s uterine dilator has been recommended as a convenient sound. THE LUMBAR OPERATION, 1. Exposure ol'the Kidney*—The patient lies upon the sound side, as near to the edge of the table as possible. The loin of the affected side is well exposed, and to widen the interval between the last rib and the crest of the ilium a narrow hard cushion or sand-bag should be placed under the loin of the sound side. This pillow may be a little in the way in the later stages of the operation, in which case it may be removed. The surgeon stands by the patient’s back, leaning over the trunk. An assistant stands on each side of him, to sponge and assist in retracting the wound. A third assi.s- tant is placed on the other side of the table, opposite to and facing the surgeon. His chief duty is to press the kidney towards the loin when the organ has been exposed. The twelfth rib should be definitely recognised and well defined. It is occasionally absent or rudimentary, and then the pleural sac descends below the eleventh rib, which (unless the precaution is taken of counting the ribs from above) may be mistaken for the twelfth. An oblique incision is made across the costo-iliac sjiace. The cut commences above, about half an inch below the last rib and close to the outer border of the erector spiiife. It is continued downwards and forwards towards the crest of the ilium (Fig. 109). Its length must depend upon the space available, and upon the depth of the tissues of the loin. It will sufiice if it be at first three inches in length, and it may be subsequently enlarged to four or five inches as required.