cnAP. IV.] LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. 45 iibove downwards, and on the left from below upwards. The chief assistant faces the operator. The incision is three inches in length, is commenced at the junction of the middle and the lower thirds of the tlugh, and is parallel with and just posterior to the tendon of the adductor magnus. The position of this tendon should have been well defined. After the skin has been divided there will probably be found in the subcutaneous fat the anterior division of the internal cutaneous nerve, which lies usually in the direct line of the operation. It should be drawn aside. The anterior edge of the sartorius muscle is next exposed, and the whole muscle must be displaced back- wards. Upon this muscle at this point will lie the internal saphenous vein. The vessel may possibly be exposed, in which case it is drawn backwards with the sartorius. The trunk of the internal saphenous nerve is not encountered. It lies benea,th the sartorius. The deep fascia having been well divided, the tendon of the adductor magnus is sought for, and is drawn for- wards with a blunt hook. The semimembranosus muscle is next exposed, and is drawn backwards with a retractor. The operator now seeks for the artery in the interval between the two structures. The vessel will be surrounded by much connective tissue, and is lying close to the bone. The internal popliteal nerve is here at some distance from the vessel, and will not be seen. The vein also is not necessarily exposed. It lies posterior to the artery, and to its outer side. Indeed, as approached from this point, the artery is the most superficial of the three structures named. •When the vessel has been properly exposed, the needle may be passed from below upwards. An aneurysm needle with a large lateral curve will be found the most convenient. In performing this operation care must be taken not to wound the deep branch of the anastomotica magna arteiy, which runs along the anterior surface of the adductor magnus tendon.