[part VIII. SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 402 cholecystotomy may be required, and the forceps should have a secure grip to prevent the stone from slipping out of their grasp. If the calculus be fixed in the ureter too low down to allow of its being pushed upwards into the pelvis, the ureter should be incised in its long axis directly over the stone, which may be reached from the loin as low as the upper part of the iliac fossa. If, however, it is previously known that a calculus is impacted within a few inches of the bladder, an in- cision should be made similar to that used for ligature of the common iliac artery. This incision is made just above and parallel to the outer half of Poupart’s ligament, curving upwards and slightly inwards when it reaches the level of the anterior superior spine. The abdominal muscles and transversalis fascia are divided in this incision until the snbperitoneal fatty layer is reached ; the peri- toneum is then gradually pushed inwards until the ureter is reached as it crosses the bifurcation of the common iliac artery. Its identification will probably be rendered easy by its distension with urine; the distended part may measure two inches or more in diameter. Whilst his assistant pi’esses aside the peritoneum, the operator opens the ureter longitudinally, and after the mine has escaped into a sponge held ready for it, he passes a bent pair of forceps down to grasp the stone. If the patient be a woman, the manipulation will be much aided by the index finger of the opposite hand in the vagina pushing u})wards and steadying the stone. The stone is usually elongated, with its long axis, of course, in the line of the uretei’. Should the patient be thin, the ureter will probably be reached with ease, and the extraction of the stone may present no difficulty. Far otherwise is it if the patient be stout, for the search for a small calculus at the depth of some eight inches of fat from the surface, whilst venous oozing is continuous, may tax the resources and patience of the operator to the utmost. It is needless to say that under such unfavourable cir- cumstances no attempt should be made to suture the wound