PART XIV.] EXCLSION OF THE BREAST. 477 covering the outer part of the breast as well as that removed by the modified ellijitical incision. (See Fig. 121.) In dealing widi the right side, the surgeon commences the incision over the axilla and cuts toward the chest. In dealing with the left breast, it is convenient to com- mence the incision at its lower part, and cut towards the axilla. In either case the lower or axillary half of the incision is made first for convenience as to the bleeding. The flap is retracted by careful dissection until the posterior fold of the axilla (edge of the latissimus dorsi) is reached. As the cut is made, the surgeon steadies the part with his left hand, which is made to press in the opposite direction to that followed by the knife, so as to keep the skin tense. The knife should at first involve the skin and super- ficial tissues only, and should just pass down into the subcutaneous fat. As soon as the ellipse has been com- jileted the surgeon should turn to the V-shajied point at each extremity of the wound, and should see that the skin is entirely free at these points. It is very common for the mass to be held here, owing to a faulty division of the skin. The chief assistant, who stands upon the opposite side of the table, now draws the skin up on the sternal side of the mamma towards the median line, while the surgeon lightly presses the breast downwards with his left hand. While the parts are in this position the upper limb of the incision is carried down to the pectoral muscle. If the skin be fully retracted by the assistant, a division of the deepei’ parts well beyond the limits of the breast is ensured. The surgeon now grasps the mamma and drags it away from the thorax, while he severs its deep attachments in such a way as to lay bare the great pectoral muscle. The fascia forming the sheath of this muscle should always be removed, and it makes little diflerence as regards future use of the ann whether the whole thickness of the costal portion be taken or not. As its removal greatly helps a thorough clearance of the axilla, it may be advised in nearly all cases. In dividing the muscle close to its origin from the sternum