159 CHAP. XIV.] AMPUTATIONS. stump to be covered by the tissues of the back of the heel, and involves a low division of the bones. It can rightly be termed a supramalleolar amputation, and the medullary canals of the bones are not opened by the saw. The incision commences in front, at a point just opposite the line of the ankle-joint, and ends behind, over the summit of the curve of the heel. Between these points the incision sweeps in a slightly curved manner fi’om above downwards across the ankle. The cut on the inner side just skirts the malleolus ; on the outer side it passes a little in front of the corresponding pro- cess (Fig. 51, a). In making the skin incision the surgeon holds the foot in his left hand, and manipulates it himself. In dealing with the right foot it is convenient to turn the foot inwards, and to commence the incision at the heel and on the outer side. The knife then traverses the external side of the limb, and reaches the front of the ankle. The foot being now tui’ned outwards, the incision is carried back along the inner side of the foot to the heel again. On the left side, the foot having been turned inwards, the incision may be commenced in front, and be carried back to the heel along the outer aspect of the limb. When the foot has been turned outwards, the ellipse is completed by drawing the knife from the heel to the starting-point across the inner side of the ankle. The first incision involves merely the skin and the sub- cutaneous tissues. The surgeon then proceeds to dissect up the posterior or heel dap. This must include all the soft parts down to the bone. An exception may be made of the perbnei tendons behind the external malleolus. They need not be disturbed, and should not be divided until a level above the ankle-joint has been reached. Great care must be taken of the vessels on the inner side of the os calcis. The tendo Achillis is cut, and the soft parts are cleared away from the bones of the leg up to a point about two inches above the tips of the malleoli. It is convenient to sit in order to dissect up the posterior dap.