ABDOMINAL SECTION. cii.iP. r.] 315 the parietes, and it is especially important that they should include the peritoneum. They ai’e most conveniently intro- duced in the following manner :— A blunt hook is inserted into either extremity or angle of the incision, and by exercising traction upon the hooks in opposite directions (precisely in the median line) the edges of the wound are rendered straight and pai'allel to one another. The incision opening can be made, in fact, a mere chink. By the use of the hooks the most perfect adaptation of the edges of the wound is ensured. If the abdomen be distended, the narrowing of the incision open- ing tends to prevent protrusion of the intestines. If the belly wall be flaccid, the hooks enable the assistant to make the skin tense, and at the same time to draw the part of the parietes about to be sutured away from the viscera, and thus render a wound of the latter less easy. The sutures .should be introduced close to the margin of the wound, and at intervals of half to three-quarters of an inch from one another. No suture should be tied until all the threads have been introduced, and until it is seen by traction upon the threads that a perfect adjustment of the edges can be effected. The .sutures should be tied in order from above down- wards, traction being maintained all the while upon the blunt hook.s. Care should be taken that the suture, as it is being tied, does not pick up and include a shred of the omentum. Tlie peritoneal surface of the wound should be carefully examined with the finger from time to time. Before the last two, or possibly three, sutures are tied, the flat sponge should be seized with a pair of large pressure forceps and carefully dragged out, the blunt hooks being relaxed the while. Omentum is more apt to be included in the last sutures tied than in any others. The hooks are not removed until all the deep sutures have been secured. Superficial sutures may now be introduced at any spot along the wound where the skin still gaj^es between the deep suture points. These are best introduced by a curved needle of medium size held in a suitable needle-holder.