[part III. SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 154 knife is now introduced into the joint and the lateral ligaments are divided, in both instances by cutting from within outwards. These complex ligaments are difficult to cut if attacked from the outer side of the articulation. The posterior ligament is cut, the upper surface of the os calcis is cleared, and by the division of the tendo Achillis the disarticulation is completed. 4. The Removal of the Malleoli.—The soft parts' are cleared from the two malleoli and the lower end of the tibia, great care being taken not to damage the flap. The exposed bones are then divided by a horizontal saw-cut, the saw being applied about a quarter of an inch above the inferior margin of the tibia. The flaps may be protected by spatulse dui’ing the sawing. If it should be necessary, the malleoli may be held with lion forceps. Before the wound is adjusted by sutures, a hole may be made in the centre of the heel flap, and a drainage tube introduced. IJcemorrhage.—The anterior tibial artery is cut in the dorsal flap just opposite the centre of the front of the ankle. The external and internal plantar arteries are divided in the inner section of the heel flap. The two vessels are close together. The following vessels may give rise to hsemor- rhage: the internal malleolar of the posterior tibial behind the inner malleolus; the anterior peroneal in front of the tibio-fibular joint j the external and internal malleolar of the anterior tibial in front of their corresponding malleoli. The internal saphenous vein is cut in the dorsal flap, the external in the heel flap. Comment.—The amputation gives admirable results, and secures a sound and firm stump. The patient walks upon the natural tissues of the heel. The tendo Achillis forms an attachment with the mass of the cicatrix. With a properly adapted boot, a patient after Syme’s amputation can walk with little appreciable lameness. The following special points in the operation must be noted :— 1. It is important that the flap should be accurately