[PAKT IV. 228 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. humei’us upwards. The portion of bone is now cleared of its few attachments in front, and is bared as high up as is necessary. The surgeon then grasps the bone with lion forceps held in the left hand and maintained vertically, as if he would draw the bone directly upwards. A narrow saw with a movable back is applied horizon- tally to the lower extremity of the bone so fixed, and the excision of the humerus is completed. The saw-line generally crosses the bone at right angles to its long axis, and just below the tips of the condyles. In using the saw a metal retractor or spatula should be employed to hold back and retract the soft parts. {d) Sawing off the Ends of the Radius and Ulna.— While the limb is in the same position the assistant who is fixing the forearm relaxes his hold, and forcing tlie bones of that part of the limb upwards, makes them in turn pro- trude pi’ominently into the wound. The ulna is grasped with the lion forceps, which are again held vertically, as if to draw the bone directly upwards; and the metal spatula having been applied, the saw is applied horizontally to the base of the process, a slice of the upper end of the radius being removed at the same time. The wound is washed out, is adjusted with sutures, and a drainage-tube is inserted. Other Forms of the Operation.—The incision most usually em]iloyed when the operation was first intro- duced-was the \-\-incision of Moreau. Subsequent experience has condemned every form of transverse incision in this operation, Ollier's Operation hy the Bayonet Incision.—The upper part of this incision is vertical, is opposite the interval between the triceps and the supinator longus, is commenced 2I inches above the joint-line, and runs, down to the tip of the outer condyle. It is then directed obliquely downward.s and inwards to the base of the olecranon, and is finally made to follow the posterior border of the ulna for 1^ to 2 inches. A vertical incision about one inch in length ds made