SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [part viu. 346 glass tube comes away, as a rule, in five clays. As the con- tents of the small intestines are comparatively fluid, the Paul’s tube need not be so large as that employed in colotomy. Supposing that a Paul’s tube is not at hand, the following procedure is employed : — The gut is opened by a small puncture. This should be effected with a scalpel, and not with a trocar. Before the incision is made, the united parts of the parietal wound should be buried in iodoform, and the contents of the bowel should be allowed to escape upon a sheet of lint well covered with vaseline. The small sutures that connect the gut wall with the skin are for the purpose of shutting oflfthe peritoneal cavity. They will not suffice probably to hold the intestine safely in position. To effect this latter object two lateral sutures of silkworm gut should be introduced, and should transfix the whole thickness of the intestinal wall except the actual mucous membrane, and take a firm hold of the integuments. These sutures should be passed from without inwards, i.e. from the skin towards the gut. If passed in the oppo- site direction, they might carry faecal matter into the tissues. The opening into the bowel should always be small, and should be upon the free or convex border. The smaller the knuckle of intestine bi'ought into the wound, and the smaller the fistula, the easier will be any sub- sequent operation for the closure of the artificial opening. The operation as above described can be carried out in a remarkably short space of time, and with the least possible amount of disturbance of important structures. After the gut has been incised, there should be no squeezing of the abdomen, and no attempt to wash out the lumen of the bowel. The distended tube should be left to empty itself in its own way, and the less the process is interfered with the better. A light dressing of absorbent wool, which may need to be changed at first every few minutes, is all that is needed. The skin around the opening should be frequently dried, and then covered with vaseline.