419 CHAP, n.] RADICAL CURE OF HERNIA. It is fui’ther important that the ligatures should not be placed too close to the large intestine, and that they should be thoroughly aseptic. Peritonitis has been known to result from the application of an infected ligature to the omental stump. Fine catgut, very securely knotted, answers best, and when the operator.is satisfied that there is no bleeding from any vessel in the omental pedicle the latter is gently pushed up into the abdomen. After its return it is a good precaution to introduce a small sponge on a holder through the internal ring to make sure that there is no haemorrhage. The sac is now isolated from the cord ; the higher up this is commenced the easier it is to effect. The spermatic ves.sels and the vas deferens are, as a rule, spread out around the sac, especially on its posterior aspect. In con- genital herniae they may project into its interior covered by a fold of peritoneum. Their separation is mainly accom- plished with forceps, which are used to peel off the vessels without actually taking hold of them. The left index finger introduced into the sac will facilitate the procedure. The separation is effected transversely to the neck of the sac. When once this is done, the constituents of the cord can be readily detached in an upward and downward flii’ection. If the hernia be of the congenital form the lower end of the sac is sewn up with fine catgut so as to complete the tunica vaginalis. In an adult, if the sac extends down into the scrotum it is unnecessary to follow it there. The upper part only should be isolated and divided. In many cases, however, the whole sac is freed up to the internal ring by blunt dissection, the position of the ring being recognised by the deep epigastric artery and vein. The procedure introduced by Macewen of folding up the sac and making a pad, which is kept in place l>y a deep suture, is rarely employed, and does not appear to have any special advantage. One of the following methods is to be ado])ted in preference :— 1. The sac is ligatured as high as possible with catgut or kangaroo tendon, which for security may be passed