EXCISION OF JOINTS. 24.3 CHAP. XI.] right angle, and the linih held firmly in that position, with the sole of the foot planted upon the table. The femur is cleared with the knife at the future saw- line. The bone is sawn from before backwards, and with regard to the plane of the section these two points must be observed:— The plane of the saw-cut in the antero-posterior direc- tion must be at right angles to the long axis of the shaft of the femur, and in the transverse direction it must be parallel to the plane of the free surface of the condyles. During the sawing process the condyles may be grasped and steadied with lion forceps, although, if the limb be firmly held, this- is not necessary. The femur rests upon the tibia. The tissues of the ham must be protected by means of an ivory spatula held behind the femoral con- dyles, or by a broad elastic or thin metal band. (4) Saioing of the Tibia.—The upper end of the tibia is now held forwards, the foot is still pressed firmly against the table, the shaft of the bone is maintained in the vertical position, and in consequence the articular sur- face will be quite horizontal. The bone is cleared with the knife for the passage of the saw, and a thin slice is removed by sawing from before backwards, the saw being kept pre- cisely parallel to the articular surface, and therefore at right angles to the shaft. (Kg. 81.) ^he popliteal tissues must be protected in the manner already described ; and if the movements of the saw be slow and deliberate, there is no danger of wounding the structures of the ham. The two bony surfaces should now be parallel, and should fit accurately when brought together. (5) Treatment of the Patella and Synovial Menihra'iie.— The most tedious part of the operation remains. The patella must be dealt with according to the practice of the indi- vidual surgeon. It may be removed, whether healthy or diseased, by dissecting it out, with the least possible dis- turbance of the surrounding tissues; or if entirely sound, it may be left. Or it may be steadied in a vertical position while its articular segment is removed with the saw in the