CILV1M1.J COMPLETE MASTOID OPERATION. 471 to open the bony cavity, but when no motor or burr is avail- able a gouge is recommended; and while this is being used a Stacke’s protector serves to shield from injury the tuber- osity which projects from the inner wall into the neck of the antrum, and contains the Fallopian aqueduct and the hori- zontal semicircular canal. The posterior wall of the osseous meatus is removed with a pair of small angular bone-cutting forceps. Sharp sjDoons of various sizes are used to move the diseased granulations and soft parts from antrum, attic, and tympanum. The tegmina antri and tympani, and the inner walls of these cavities, should be left by the spoon clean and hard. A bright light is required to do this well, and tem- porary jdugging with dry gauze is an important aid. The cartilaginous canal is next dealt with. Its inferior wall is divided vertically well into the concha. The cut in the concha is then carried with a curve upwards and backwards till it reaches the level of the anterior commencement of the helix. The posterior wall of the meatus is then pushed upwards and backwards, and attached in a special manner by one, two, or three silkworm-gut threads to the mastoid flap. The bone cavity is then plugged with gauze through the meatus. “ Under favourable circumstances the second operation may be done a week later, but in adults not for two or three weeks. “ Description of Second Operation.—An ansesthetic having been given, the original incision is again opened; this being easily accomplished by the handle of the knife. The pinna is now displaced forwards, and care taken to arrest all oozing from the granulating surface. The tympano- antral cavity must be rendered quite dry by little pieces of gauze held on forceps. Large epitlielial grafts, as thin as pos- sible, are now taken from the thigh or arm. If the surgeon is successful in cutting an epithelial graft large enough to cover the whole area of the granulating surface, it can be applied with advantage in one piece. The graft is best carried to the wound spread out on a microscopic section lifter. It should be made to cover (1) the anterior wall of the cavity formed internally by the anterior boundary of