272 [part VI. SUROICAL OPERATIONS. During this step there may be much bleeding, which must be checked eitlier by pressure upon the facial arteries, or by the compression of each coronary artery at the angle of the moutli between the tliumb and finger of an assistant. The latter procedure is the more efficacious, but the operation area is encroached upon and disturbed, and in the place of an assistant’s fingers some form of hare-lip com- [>ression forceps may be used. Third Step.—The gap is now closed. The assistant who liolds the head presses the cheeks together with Iiis fingers, so that the two raw surfaces are approximated. The ap- proximation must be exact. The margins are then united by means of fine silkworm-gut sutures carried on straight needles. The first suture should involve the middle of the lip, the next the lower portion, and the third the segment near the nostril. Tliese are the three main sutures. They should include the whole thickness of the lip, excluding the mucous membrane only ; and the first or median suture, if properly introduced, sliould command the coronary arteries when it is finally drawn tight. It is well to pass the three needles one after the other, and to leave them in the tissues until it has been ascertained that the best possible ajiproximation of the raw edges has been obtained. From the manner in which the cheeks are held, the relations between the two sides of the cleft may lie disturbed. The three needles act as three temporary pins. After the surgeon is satisfied that the best possible adjustment has been obtained (and one or more of the needles may have to be re-introduced before it is obtained), the sutures are drawn through, tied in the usual way, and cut moderately short. The three stitches are introduced about one-third of an inch from each side of the cleft. Two, three, or moi’e sutures are now inserted at the free margin of the new lip, especially upon its inner or alveolar aspect. These ai-e composed of the finest silk, and are passed by means of slender curved needles held in a needle- holder.