298 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [part vn. ' j towards the tonsil, the gland marked A, situated under cover | of the jaw, is liable to be infected. ■, 1 But in the great majority of cases the carcinoma starts | on the lateral aspect of the tongue, and deposits occur in 1 the glands outside the submaxillary triangle at the junction 1 of the facial and jugular veins, on the outer aspect of the i carotid bifurcation, along the course of the main vessels and beneath the deep fascia (b, c, d, g, in Fig. 88). Later on, the glands at the back of the jugular vein (f, e), or even those lower down (h, etc.), become involved. As they soon adhere to the main vessels, their removal at a later stage becomes difficult and dangerous. Hence the opera- tion for excision of cancer of the tonarue should include at O the same time a careful and thorough attempt at I’emoval of the lymphatic glands referred to on one or even on both sides of the neck. This can be effected through a modifica- | tion of the usual incision for ligature of the lingual artery, I which is described later. Should the Submaxilla7'y Glmul be Removed I—As already noted, cancerous deposits in this gland rai’ely accompany epithelioma of the tongue, though the sub- maxillary gland often is harder than normal owing to a degenerative sclerosis. Its removal complicates the opera- tion to no great extent, but involves ligature of the facial artery and vein, and therefore prolongs the operation. If the primary growth encroaches on the floor of the mouth, it is certainly best to clear the submaxillary triangle, but the mylo-hyoid muscle should be left, to prevent the neck and mouth wounds from communicating. EXCISION WITH PRELIMINARY LIGATURE OF THE LINGUAL ARTERIES, ETC. I Iii8ti'iiinciits Required. — Mouth gag. Curved needle in handle. Stout silk. Tongue forceps. Mouth retractor. Tenaculum. - Blunt-pojnted scissors, straight |L and curved. Volsella. Wells’s pre.ssure, dissecting, and fine-toothed forceps. Sponges in holders. Ligatures, etc. f <