SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [part VIII. 360 divided witli care, as the ciecum, ileum, or omentum may be adherent to the anterior abdominal wall at the point of the incision. The divided peritoneum on either side of the wound is neatly picked up with pressure forceps, and as these are drawn upon they act as retractors and facilitate the introduction of the fingers into the abdomen. Two lingers of the right hand are passed into the cavity, and the ciEcal region is examined. In the female .subject this ex- amination should always include the right ovary. l>ciiioii$tr:itiii|i: llic Appendix.—The caecum is sought for and is gently drawn out of the wound by means of the two fingei s. As a rule, this is readily done when there are no adhesions, and in such case the appendix is at once demonstrated. In a large proportion of cases, how- ever, thei’e are difficulties due to adhesions. The whole area should be well examined with the fingers, and the wound enlarged if necessary. The simplest way of finding the appendix is to identify the caecum and the terminal part of the ileum, and where these two meet, the appendix will be found. The separation of the adherent appendix is often tedious. Care must be taken in clearing it of the iliac vein and of the ureter. Especial care is necessary when the ileum is closely involved in the adhesions. The adherent appendix may open by one or more ulcerations into the csecum, colon, ileum, or rectum, and the apertures left in these viscera by the removal of the appendix must be carefully closed. The appendix is often adherent to the ovary or broad ligament, and occasionally it is attached to the bladder. In one case upon which I operated it opened into the interior of the bladder. The diseased structure may be buried in a mass of omentum, or may be closely united to the mesentery, or be buried in dense and almost cartilaginous tissue in the iliac fossa. It may extend upwards, and its tip be found under the liver. I have found it attached by its extremity to the left iliac fossa. A large proportion of the adhesions encountered are dealt with by the fingers. There must be no tearing, and no dragging of tissues apart with two pairs of dissect- ing forceps. The blunt dissector is often useful. All