407 CHAP. I.] STRANGULATED HERNIA. same manner and relation as the forefinger and the knife. When once the director has been passed through the stricture, and is in place, it is held in position with the left hand, while the hernia knife is used in the right. The knife must be cautiously introduced. It is possible for the bowel to overlap the director and the knife, and to be cut by the movement of the blade. When the bowel is in danger, it should be pressed aside by the assistant with his finger or a small sponge held in a holder. It is well to have but a very limited cutting edge, and to see that the whole of the cutting edge is well within the stricture before the division is attempted. After the knife has been withdrawn, the stiicture may be further dilated with the director, which is forced against the divided fibres, and therefore away from the bowel. It should be a rule to endeavour to make as slight a division of the stricture as possible, such a division as will allow of the gut being reduced, and no more. The loop of bowel should now be gently drawn down and the constricted part examined, since it is here that the in- jurious effects of the strangulation may be most manifest. The next step is to reduce the gut, the fibrous and mu.s- cular structures around the hernial orifice being relaxed as far as possible. In inguinal and femoral ruptures this is effected by flexing the thigh upon the pelvis. An attempt is then made to squeeze the bowel by a kind of kneading movement with the thumb and fingers through the opening. The manipulation must be of the gentlest, and the sui'geon must be prepared to exercise considerable patience. If the coil will not return by pressure applied at one ex- tremity, it may yield by j;)ressure applied at the other end of the loop. In some cases of difficulty, the reduction is rendered easier if the margin of the hernial oi’ifice is held up by means of a small blunt hook introduced into it, or by two pressure forceps grasping the opened sac and straightening its neck. This especially applies to large inguinal herniie.