SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [part V. 268 solution of cai’bolic acid, etc., special attention being paid to the deep furrows caused by the contraction, in which dirt is apt to collect and lie concealed. An Esmarch’s tourniquet is convenient, and should be applied above the wrist. The hand being held by an assistant with the palm upwards and the fingers extended as far as possible, the surgeon makes a longitudinal incision directly over the main bands of fascia, and if necessary adds two short transverse cuts at either end. The skin is carefully reflected on either side, it being very easy to buttonhole ik The fascial band ])rojects forwards from the digital vessels and nerves, but it is necessary to avoid dividing these at the same time as the fascia. Tlie band of the latter, having been cut through at the upper end of the incision where it is a single tough coi’d, is then drawn out, and witii its various prolongations again divided below. It is at this ])oint that the digital A'essels and nerves- are in most danger. From one to two inches of the fascial band is removed, and the more thoroughly its divisions are dissected out the better will be the result. Indeed, it is well to dis- sect away all fascial tissue exposed which feels distinctly hard to the touch. If both ring and little fingers require to be operated on, it is better to turn back a longitudinal flap. After the tourni(]uet has been removed and bleeding stopped the wounds are sewn up with fine silkworm-gut. The incisions are apt to gape a little, and sutui-es should not be applied where they cause too much tension. Tlie fingers are put up on a splint in the extended position. The wounds will probably be healed in a week, but before this time the phalangeal joints should be flexed every day so as to prevent their becoming stiff. l>ivisioii of llic Sloiiio-lTIastoid Iflnsrlo.—The stcrno-mastoid muscle is encased in the cervical fascia, and to obtain the best result in operating for wry-neck it is essential to divide not only the muscle, but its contracted sheath. The sternal portion of the muscle usually appears to be more contracted than the clavicular, but it will almost always be found necessary to divide both. The division should be carried out a shoi’t distance above the clavicle.