265 PART V.j TENOTOMY, edge is turned towards the tendon, and is made to cut to the bone. It severs the tendon, and as it is withdrawn is . made in like manner to cut the dense ligamentous tissue already described. Just as it is being withdrawn it is made to sever the tendon of the tibialis posticus. During the introduction of the instruments the foot is relaxed. During the cutting of the tissues it is i)ut upon the stretch, and the yielding of the divided ligaments and tendons is made ver}" evident. Tendo Acliillis. — This very powerful tendon measures in the adult some four and ahalf inches in length, three-quarters of an inch in breadth, and a cpiarter of an inch in thickness It is best divided at its narrowest part, i.e. about one inch above its insertion. Operation.—The patient may lie upon the back, with the bodj'^ a little rolled over towards the affected side. - The foot is so turned as to lie entirely upon its outer side, and a small cushion placed beneath the lower of the leg will carry the heel off the table. The surgeon stands to the outer side of the limb in the case of both the right and the left foot. x\n assistant standing by his side holds the foot. Another assistant may steady the leg. The tendon, having been defined, is rendered a little ten.se, Init is not fully stretched. The sharp tenotome is entered vertically at the inner margin of the tendon, and is pushed downwards—in the present position of the foot— until it has readied the outer edge of the tendon, where its IJointcan be indistinctly felt. The sharp-pointed instru- ment is now replaced by the blunt, which follows the track already made until its point can in turn be detected through the skin. The instrument must be kept very close to the tendon. The tendon is now put well upon the stretch, and the cutting edge having been turned towards the surface, the tense cord is divided with a sawing movement, the left forefinger resting upon the skin over the site of the operation. The divided end .separates with a snap, and unle.ss care .1* \