395 CHAP. XII.] LUMBAR NEPHRECTOMY. examined, it will usually be found necessary to enlarge the original incision. This may be done in many ways. The oblique incision may be extended to the full length admitted by the conformation of the individual. This incision will suffice for all cases in which the lumbar opera- tion is allowable. If a greatly increased lumbar incision is called for, then, in my opinion, the lumbar operation is not permissible. hlorris advises that to the original cut be conjoined a second incision, running vertically downwards from the hist, and starting from it about one inch in front of its posterior extremity (Fig. 109, b). The kidney is exposed in the manner already described (page 391). It is now necessary to examine it and separate it from its connections. Good broad rectangular retractors should be used, so as to expose the parts well, and an assistant should at the same time press the kidney into the wound by the hands applied over the front of the abdomen. If there have been no inflammation in the perinephric tissue, the separation of the kidney is easy. The fatty tissue around the kidney can readily be detached by means of the index finger of one hand inti’o- duced into the depths of the wound, and swept round the organ in close contact Avith its capsule. In this manner the gland is readily enucleated and isolated. When there has been much inflammation, as in cases of calculous or tuberculous pyo-nephrosis, the tissue sur- rounding the kidney will be found condensed and adherent, and the enucleation of the organ will then be difficult, or in some few cases impossible. In .such case the kidney should be enucleated from its thickened and firmly adherent capsule, and the latter left behind with the pedicle. In effecting this enucleation, a flat hernia director will be found to be of service. Treatiiieiit ol' the Pedicle—The kidney, having been freed, is draAvn as far out of the wound as pos- sible, and the pedicle is isolated Avith the fingers, and examined carefully. To obtain more room, the lower