[part vin 352 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. left side a branch of the inferior mesenteric artery may indicate it—the separation of its two layers is not as a rule difficult. If the peritoneum has been opened, it is of little use to waste time in attempting to sew up the rent, as advised by some. In the deep wounds which are inevitable in corpu- lent subjects the closure of the gap in the membrane may be almost impossible. The rent made will most probably be large and irregular, and may be internal to the bowel. Tliird sisijfe.—The bowel is fixed in position and opened. If the colon do not come readily into the wound, or if there be difficulty in retaining it, its walls should be seized in a vertical direction by long pressure forceps. No more of the coat of the bowel should be picked up in the forceps than is required to give a hold for the instrument. It i.s in the part so held that the future opening may be made. It is needless to observe that the opening must be made in the non-peritoneal segment of the bowel, and therefore upon its posterior surface. Gentle pressure exercised upon the front of the abdomen will help to keep the gut in position. The more completely the subperitoneal tissue has been opened up, the more easily can the bowel be brought into view. The bowel should be merely drawn to the level of the skin. It should not be dragged out as a loop or even as a knuckle. By means of a large curved needle the two extremities of the parietal wound are now closed by sutures. Silkworm gut should be employed, and the needles should be passed very deeply, so as to include all the divided structures down to the fascia lumborum. Probably two such deep sutures on either side of the centre of the wound will be sufficient. They should all be passed before any are tied. When they are tied, the skin should very closely embrace the small riome of protruding bowel which, still held by the forceps, presents in the centre of the incision. As the edges of the wound, at its lateral extremities, are beins brousht together, the bowel should be drawn a little O O O '