[part III. 104 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. assistant now takes tlie hand and retains it in the same position while the operator ])roceeds to dissect up the great flap. This should include all the soft parts down to the flexor tendons. A considerable portion of the iuu.scles of the thenar and hypothenar eminences will consequently form a part of the flap, and the limb of the superficial palmar arch will be divided at its free end. The flap should be dissected up to the level of the radio- carpal joint, care being taken to clear the bony prominences in the palm of the hand. The surgeon now takes the hand and holds it in the pronated position, while the assistant draws up the skin on the back of the limb. The dorsal incision is made. The integuments are dissected up to the joint-line, and the extensor tendons and the ligaments of the wrist are divided precisely as in the previous operation. Nothing now connects the disarticulated hand with the forearm but the mass of the flexor tendons and the tissues about them. These are drawn upon and divided by a vigorous trans- verse cut made from above downwards—i.e. from dorsum to palm—care being taken that the palmar flap is held well out of the way at the time. The palmar flap should never be cut by transfixion. The bony prominences in the palm render such a method difficult, and an unduly scanty flap is apt to result. llcemorrhage.— T\\Q vessels are divided as in the previous operation. The deep palmar arch and the transverse part of the superficial arch are removed with the hand. C'oiiiiiiciit.—Of the operations described, the best pro- cedure is undoubtedly the elliftical method. The cicatrix falls upon the dorsum, the bones are well covered, and the free end of the stump is made up of the tough and well- nourished tissues of the palm. The styloid processes are well protected. The operation by a fahnar fiai:) may rank next in order of value. It has these disadvantages when compared with the elliptical operation : Tlie tissues of the palm are more extensively encroached upon • the flap is of a somewhat