CHAP. XIV.] 171 AMPUTATIONS. In dissecting uji the soft parts, great care must be taken not to dissect tlie flap up too far. If this be done, it is liossible to reach the spot where the anterior tibial artery is piercing the interosseous membrane, and to actually divide the vessel at that spot. The future of the operation depends upon the integrity of this ai'tery. (5) The soft parts included in tlie small inner flap may now be cut by transfixion at the level of the retracted skin. The muscular tissue so divided must be in the next place separated from the bones up to the level of the saw-line. The bones and interosseous membrane should be bared. The retractors are now applied and the bones sawn through. (6) The manner in which the hones are saivn is of some importance, especially as the prominent anterior border of the tibia is apt to project into the anterior wound when the flaps have been adjusted The remai-ks now to be made apply to all amputations in this region. The interosseous membrane having been incised, the periosteum covering the tibia is divided by a circular cut. This circular cut is joined from above by two lateral vertical incisions through the investing membrane. The two flaps—anterior and posterior—of periosteum thus marked out should be separated from the bone by an elevator. If preferred, these flaps may be dissected up from the bone with the deepest layers of muscle ; or, on the other hand, the periosteum on the posterior surface of the tibia may be ignored, and only tlie anterior segment pre- served. Some surgeons strip up the periosteum from the fibula also. The periosteum is retracted to a point just above the saw-line. The surgeon stands in the same position—i.e. to the outer side of the right leg and to the inner .side of the left—and divides the fibula first. The limb is still so placed that the external surface is uppermost. In sawing the left fibula, the point of the saw is directed downwards, towards the floor. In dividing the right bone, the point of the instrument is directed upwards, towards the ceiling.