SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 374 [PAUT VII I. Hence, if the pylorus is much scarred or distorted it is safer to do a gastro-jejunostomy. If the surgeon attempts a pyloro-plastic operation and is dissatisfied with the im- mediate result, he may well perform the othei- operation at the same time, if the patient’s condition allows of it. IV.- -UASTRO-JEJUNOSTOMY. This operation consists in establishing a permanent com- munication between the stomach and the first coil of the jejunum just below the end of the duodenum. It was first proposed as a substitute for pyloric resection in ca.ses of cancer of that part of the stomach. The operation has been ^extended to cases of chronic ulcer of the stomach (1) when attended with recurring and severe hiematemesis; (2) when stenosis has occurred at or near the pylorus due to cicatrisation of an ulcer ; (3) when hour-glass contraction has developed from the same cause ; (4) when symptoms of gastric ulcer have continued for some considerable time and have resisted careful dieting and medicinal treatment. 'I'he object of the gastro-jejunostomy under these con- ditions is twofold—to relieve obstruction to the stomach by emptying its contents, and by giving rest to the organ to encourage healing of the ulcer. In all cases of gastro-jejunostomy the first coil of small intestine below the fixed duodenum must be attached to the stomach. Thus, whatever method be employed, the sur- geon must first find the termination of the duodenum, which is fi.ved in front of the aorta behind the transverse colon. The demonstration of the commencement of the jejunum is best effected by drawing the transv'erse colon upwards and by then passing the fingers along the under surface of the transverse mesocolon until the vertebral column is reached. ' Just to the left of the spine the terminal part of the duodenum will be discovered. This will lead to the jejunum, and traction upon the coil seized will demonstrate that it represents the very commencement of the jejunum. It is important to favour, as far as is possible, the