85 CHAP. II.] AMPUTATIONS. the securing of a perfect aseptic condition. Over the terminal phalanx, and over the joint between the middle and termpial plialanges, there is no fibrous she'ath. In front of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint it is scarcely evident. Over the first and second (proximal and middle) phalanges, and in fx’ont of the joint between these bones, the fibrous sheath is well marked, and appears as a rigid tube when cut across. As the sheath crosses the metacarjio-phalangeal and first interphalangeal joints, it is adherent to the glenoid ligament, and it may easily be closed by two fine catgut sutui’es passed vertically, i.e. from the dorsal to the palmar wall. Opposite the shafts of the first and second phalanges, however, there is much difficulty in effecting this closure, since the sheath is united to the periosteum, and that membrane is very thin. In these situations the periosteum should be stripped up a little from the palmar aspect of the bone, and the orifice of the tube secured by two fine sutures passed either vertically or transversely, as may appear the more convenient. This stripping off of pei’iosteum should be effected before the bone is divided. Iiisti'uiiieiits required.—Narrow, slender, and strong scalpels, the blades of which should be equal in length to about one diameter and a half of the digit to be removed. (A fine scalpel with a cutting edge one inch in length will serve admii’ably for most amputations of the fingers. The “ finger knife ’’ of the instrument makers is an absurd instrument.) A fine key-hole saw or very small Butcher’s saw. Bone forceps. Dissecting and artery forceps. Tapes to hold aside the fingers. Scissors, needles, etc. Position.—The surgeon sits with the patient’s hand before him. The limb should be in the position of prona- tion while dorsal incisions and flaps are being made, and in supination during the fashioning of palmar flaps. In the oval operation the limb may be kept pronated throughout, and disarticulation is in any case conveniently effected in that position. The surgeon holds the finger to be removed with his