309 AIWOM IN A L SKCTJON. OHAr. 1.1 down, to ascertain wlietlior the incinhrano is free or not. Tho inoinbrane is finally divided by cutting upon or close to the point of the forcej)S, wliilo they are being drawn away or liftcid up. No lioolc or other unusual instrument is ro- quin'd to pick up tho peritoneum, but toothed forceps ai'o often useful. Wlien adhesions e.xist, there is dilliculty in a.scertaining wlien tho abdominal cavity has been really I’eaeluid, and there is nothing to guide tho o[)orator but,his surgical and anatomical intelligimco. Any (loubtful layer of ti.ssuo should be picked up imd gently rolled betweem the finger and thumb. Its character can in this way be at once (jstimaUsd, and the existence of deeper attachments (hunonstrated. 'I'he oj)erator who has the f(;ar of adhesions lad'oro his eyes, and who has not notes! the layers of tissues as they have been cut, may readily separate ami strip off tho undivide-d peritoneum with his finger,s, under the impression that ho is dealing with adhesions within tlio abdominal cavity. 'I'his is especially apt to occur when a large smooth tumour is pressed against tho parietes. 'I'he peritoiuium should lu! divided by a clean even cut. It may conveniently b(! divided by scissoi'sdf prefei’red. J have seeti the nuunbrane rent open with tho fing(u'.s—a practice that has nothing to commend it. As soon as the abdomen isop(med, the divid(sl peritoneum on either side of tho centre of the wound is sei/.(5(l with pressure forceps. 'I'hese forceps remain in place until tho operation is completed. 'I’lioy act as retractors ; they keep tho peritoneum in position, and they render the introduction of tho finger or of a sponge very easy. 'I'hoy also .sei’vo as a guide to the introduction of tho sutures, llefoi’e they are (lisj)ensed with the little margin of peritomnmi which they have hold of should be cut away with the forcep.s, since this tissue is likely to be damagcsl by long compression. When the forceps are in position, two finge.rs can Ixi introduced for purpo.ses of exploration. If the incision has to be, eidarged, it is ell(;cted with a straight probe-pointed bistoury, the two fingers being used as a grooved director. If tho wound be oxt(uided down-