CHAP. X.] 136 AMPUTATIONS. of the inner flap. The dorsal digital vessels will probably not need to be secured. (2) By Racket or Oval Incision. — Tlie toe is grasped by the lek hand. The knife is entered about 1 cm. above the metatarso-phalangeal joint in the dorsal median line. It is continued down to the centre of the first phalanx, and when carried round the toe to form the racket sliould just avoid the web (Fig. 42, b). The proceeding is identical with that described in disarticulation of the second phalanx (page 132). The joint should be opened from below, through the glenoid ligament. The fibrous sheath of the flexor tendon may be closed in the manner just described. Comment.—In disarticulating, the toe should be manipu- lated by the assistant, while the surgeon holds back the soft parts 'with his left fingers. The toe should be turned and twisted to the inner side when dividing the outer lateral ligament, and to the outer side when dividing the inner one. In dissecting back the flap, it is well to keep close to the bone, so as to avoid injury to the digital vessels. In disarticulating, also, care must be taken to keep close to the phalanx and to ciTt towards the bone; the soft parts must be well dissected back and the liga- ments exposed. If such care be not taken, the plantar digital arteries—which lie close to the joint—will be divided. The cicatrix comes over the head of the bone and is vertical to the sole. The digital arteries will be found divided at the free margin of the flap on either side. When possible, the base of the first phalanx of the toe should be saved, on account of the important series of muscles to which it gives attachment (abductor and ^ad- ductor pollicis, flexor bre'vis pollicis, and transversus pedis). Although these muscles can no longer act upon the toe, they are of value in maintaining the strength of the sole. The skin in this region is often much thickened, and is consequently unyielding, and in adjusting flaps it is import- ant to take care that too much strain does not come upon the sutures.