[PAKT XI. 444 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. The amount excised will be represented by about one inch, the scissors being applied about a quarter of an inch from the ligature. There is no need to clamp the veins above the site of the proposed excision in order to render them distinct. Almost invariably the spermatic artery will be included in the ligatures, as it lies surrounded by the veins of the anterior bundle. After the intervening portion has been excised, the two cut ends are secured together by tying the two ligatures above to those below. This union may be reinforced by a few tine catgut stitches introduced with a curved needle through the opposing empty vessel-ends. If two pairs of dissecting forceps are gently used in clearing the varicocele from the surrounding tissues, there is little risk of damaging the vessels. The action of the forceps mu.st be supplemented by the scalpel. There must be no tearing of the fascia asunder with the tingers. There will probably be no bleeding points to secure. A blunt hook having been inserted at each extremity of the wound, in order to b^ing the edges of the incision parallel, the sutures are introduced. Fine red silkworm gut should be employed. £v€isioii of Part of the Scrotiiiii.—This proceed- ing .should be reserved for the exceptional cases of extreme laxity of the skin and muscles supporting the testicle. The pendulous scrotum is drawn through a pair of naiTow- bladed curved forceps, such as are used in circumcision, until the testis is seen to be well bi’aced up. The forceps (their convexity being downwards) are then held firmly whilst the redundant tissues are excised with a sharp- pointed bistoury. On relaxing the grip of the forceps there will be free oozing from the scrotal veins and arterial twigs. This should be thoroughly stopped by pressure forceps, and if necessary by ligature, before the wound is sewn up. All sutures in the scrotum must be introduced close to the edges of the wound ; otherwise the dartos tucks in the skin and prevents rapid healing.