CHIP. VIII.] 233 EXCISION OF JOINTS. subscapularis and biceps muscles should be carefully dis- sected out. Comment.—This procedure can claim to be the best and the most generally adopted method of excising the shoulder. Langenbeck’s incision is placed more to the outer side, and has for its starting-point the acromio-clavicular joint (Fig. 78, B). 2. The Subperiosteal Operation.—The patient is placed in the same position as in the last operation. The ai-m lies by the side. The same incision is made. The capsule is exposed and the biceps tendon discovered. The capsule is incised vertically to the outer side of the biceps tendon, and the incision is carried downwards through the periosteum on the neck of the bone as far as the intended saw-cut. The knife is now laid aside for the rugine and elevator. Commencing at the outer segment of the wound, the surgeon separates all the soft parts from the bone, detaching the periosteum, the capsular ligament, and the muscular insertions in one continuous and unbroken layer. The rugine is worked upwards and downwards. The arm is rotated inwards gradually, and is at the same time abducted and the head of the bone pushed upwards and forwards. The greater tuberosity is reached and cleared, and the bone freed as far as possible beyond it. In clearing the outer part of the humerus, the surgeon should stand facing the patient while dealing with the right limb, and behind the shoulder-—i.e. close to the head —while treating the left limb. In the process the thumb and suitable steel retractors must be vigorously employed to draw back the sepai’ated tissues. The next step consists of clearing the lesser tuberosity and the inner part of the neck of the bone. Like measures are adopted. As the surgeon progresses, the limb is rotated outwards, the arm is abducted, and the head of the humerus is thrust upwards and forwards. In this part of the operation the surgeon stands facing the patient when excising the left bone, and behind the shoulder when operating upon the right side.