LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. CHAP. I.] 3 and difficulties, whereas a little increase in the length of the skin-cut does not add to the gravity of the procedure. The knife should be entered at right angles to the surface, and should be in the same position wlien with- drawn. The surface wound should be of equal depth throughout. There should be no “ tails ” to the cut. The skin should be steadied with the left hand while the integuments are being divided. After the surface cut has been made, the next step is to divide the deep fascia, or aponeurosis. This is done Ijy a clean cut made in the line of the original incision and carried the whole length of the wound. A director is not required either at this or any other stage of the operation. In the ligature of arteries the director should be avoided as an unnecessary and dangerous weapon. When the deep fascia has been exposed in a limb, the outlines of the underlying muscles and tendons are rendered more or less distinct. A gap between two adjacent muscles has usually to be followed in the operation. This gap is erroneously said to be indicated by a white or a yellow line. In opening up the depth of the wound the posture of the limb may be so altered as to relax tlie muscles about the incision. It is better that this should not be done until the interspace has been well and clearly demonstrated. The deep part of the wound should follow the line of the superficial incision, and should equal it in extent. The wound should not be funnel-shaped. Retractors must be freely used. Every means must* be adopted to expose the depths of the wound clearly. All bleeding must be checked as it is encountered. The wound should be kept dry to its very bottom. Above all things, the operation must be conducted step by step. Each guiding point must be well made out before the next point is sought for. This circumstance is well illustrated by the operation for securing the lingual artery, 3. The Exposure of the Artery.—The artery should be sought for with the finger. As the tissues will be more