122 [part III. SURGICAL OPERATIONS. Ihemorrhcuje.—The main artery is divided between the origins of the posterior circumflex artery and the superior ]irofunda. On the edges of the vertical incision there may be bleeding from the humeral branch of the acromio-thoi'acic artery, and in the depths of that incision the anterior circumflex artery will be divided. There will be bleeding from muscular branches in the deltoid flap, and considerable hsemoi-rhage should the posterior circumflex artery be unintentionally cut. 2. Tlic External or Deltoid Flap Method.— The base of the flap extends from the coracoid process in front to the spine of the scapula at the root of the acromion behind. It is U-shaped, and its extremity reaches nearly to the insertion of the muscle. If well shaped, the flap includes practically the whole of the deltoid. At its base it should be represented by the entire thickness of the muscle, while at its margins it should be comparatively thin. The surgeon should always stand at the outer side of the limb, and almost facing the patient. (1) The flap is marked out by a skin-incision. In deal- ing with the right shoulder, the arm should be carried well across the chest, and the knife be entered at the root of the acromion. It is then made to follow the outline of the deltoid, and to end at the coracoid process (Fig. 38, a). As the knife is carried up towards the latter point the ai’in is withdrawn from the chest and a little abducted. It is more convenient that the surgeon should manipu- late the limb himself with his left hand. On the left shoulder the process is reversed. The arm is drawn away from the side, and the incision commences at the coracoid. As it approaches the acromion the arm is brought across the chest. (2) The knife is now carried deeply along the whole length of tlie incision, and the flap containing the substance of the deltoid muscle is raised. In cutting the flap the knife should be held a little obliquely, in order that the section of the muscle may be comparatively thin at the margins of the flap.