SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [part III. 136 2. DisarlicMiafion ol the Oiitei- Toes at the itletatarso-Phalangeal Joints.—The best o})eration is that by the oval or racket incision, described on page 135. C, — AMPUTATION OF THE TOES EN MASSE THROUGH THE METATARSUS. This operation is carried out upon the same principles as that just described. dbe best procedure is that of a long' plantar flap. The foot should project beyond the end of the table, and the surgeon should sit facing it. The points at which the bones are to be sawn must first be determined. The saw-line must be oblique, so as to follow the natural line of the metatarsal bones—i.e. the section of the fifth metatarsal must be posterior to the section of the first metatarsal. The saw-cut, in fact, should be about parallel with the line of the web. The plantar flap may be cut first. This is done with the foot well flexed. Assuming the left foot to be the one operated on, the knife is entered at the inner margin of the foot, midway between the dorsal and plantar surfaces. The point of entrance is over the first metatarsal, and is just behind the point at which that bone is to be divided. The incision is carried along the side of the foot until the level of the crease tliat separates the great toe from the sole is reached. It is now made to sweep across the plantar surface Just behind the web. On reaching the outer surface of the little toe, the incision is cai-ried back along the margin of the foot until a point is reached just posterior to the sj)ot selected for the section of the fifth metatarsal bone. In making this plantar incision the surgeon should keep the foot rigid with his left hand, and at first the cut should be through the skin only. An assistant now takes the foot and keeps it well flexed at the ankle, while the surgeon uses his left fingers to aid in dissecting back the flap. The flexor ten- dons should be divided as soon as the separation of the flap has been well commenced. While they are being cut the individual toes must be fully extended.