454 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [paet xii. close to the lower end of the table. The surgeon sits facing the perineum. The first step consists in dilating the sphincters. Both index fingers are introduced, and the anus is slowly and gradually sti’etched. The process will require at least two minutes to accomplish, and when comjjlete the anus will be patulous, and the sphincter will have lost its tendency to contract. If a hasty dilatation be effected, the sphincter may relax suddenly, and a laceration of the parts be brought about. The surgeon should maintain a watchful control over the dilating fingers. The parts are now in a convenient condition for opera- tion. The piles, which may pi-eviously have been entirely withdrawn from view, are now readily exposed, and the whole of the lower part of the rectum can be inspected and explored. The surgeon, after a careful examination of the district, should decide on the number of piles which may require removal. It is desirable to commence with the hteinorrhoids on the lower or posterior wall of the rectum, since, when the jnles on the opposite wall are being dealt with, these are obscured by the blood. .Small piles, which are evident enough before the actual operation is commenced, may be lost sight of after some of the main ligatures have been applied. As a preliininaiy step, it is well to seize each of these smaller excrescences with pressure forceps, which are left in position, as a guide to the site of the pile, until the surgeon finds it convenient to deal with them. These forceps hang loose, and ai’e not in the way. Each pile is seized with the pile-holding forceps, held in the left hand, and is gently drawn away from the anus and towards the middle line. Its base is thus rendered tense, and the line of junction of the skin with the mucous mem- brane is brought well into view. By a series of snips with the scissors the surgeon severs all the lower attachments of the pile, cutting along the line of junction of the skin and mucous membrane. By a few light snips, aided with a little pressure from the blunt points of the scissors, the pile is dissected up from