203 TENOTOMY. PABT V.] and is at some distance from the blood-vessels. Weis and Velpeau recommended division of the tendon at its insertion into the scaphoid bone. No advantage has been claimed foi' this method, and it is inapplicable to infants. The tendon has been severed a little way below the tip of the malleolus. The selection of this point is to be con- demned. The synovial sheath must be opened ; the tendon lies close to the ankle-joint, and is in more intimate relation with the accompanying blood-vessels than it is at the spot usually selected. Operation.—The surgeon stands to the outer side of the limb in the case of either tendon. The assistant faces him, and grasps the foot with one hand and the leg with the other. The position of the tendon is made out, and the foot is held a little extended and abducted, and is so turned as to lie upon its outer side. The surgeon seeks for that point on the inner surface of the tibia where the malleolus joins the shaft of the bone. He reaches this point by following the posterior margin of tlie malleolus. The spot in question will be about a finger’s breadth above the tip of the malleolus in the infant, and about one and a half to two inches above that process in * the adult. It is really on the shaft, and is above what would be called anatomically the base of the malleolus. The surgeon fixes his left thumb-nail upon the margin of the bone, and enters the sharp tenotome vertically between the tibia and the tendon, using the nail as a guide. The instrument should be kept as near as possible to the bone. If proi)erly inserted it will remain, as Mr. Heath has pointed out, fixed without any support of the hand. The tendon should not be too tightly stretched at this stage of the operation. The fascia about the tendon .should be freely divided by moving the point of the instrument to jmd fro, but without enlarging the skin-wound. Unless this be done, a j^i’oper way may not bo made for the blunt-pointed instrument. As the sharp tenotome is withdrawn the blunt one is introduced—the edge is turned towards the tendon, the