8 URGICA L OPERA TIONS. [rAHT I. 58 The incision on the riglit side may be made from above downwards, and on the left from below upwards. A good light is required. Bi’oad spatulse or retractors are needed, and the surgeon should have provided himself with that form of aneurysm needle which practice of the opera- tion upon the dead body has shown him to be the most convenient. A large, long needle with a lateral curve will probably be found the most convenient. The incision is about five inches in length. It is com- menced one inch and a quarter to the outer side of the spine of the pubes, a little above Poupart’s ligament. The first inch and a half of the incision is parallel with Poupart’s ligament. The incision is now sharply curved upwards, and ultimately follows a line which is perpendicular to the ligament, and is directed towai’ds a point one inch and a quarter to the outer side of the umbilicus. The three abdominal muscles are divided, together with the transversalis fascia, and the artery is reached by pushing aside the peritoneum in the manner already described. Comment.—The general observations made upon the operations for ligaturing the external iliac artery (page 56) apply equally to this procedure. There is great danger of wounding the peritoneum. A very efficient retraction of the soft parts is essential, and the passing of the needle is associated with considerable difficulty. The operation described is easy, so far as the exposure and separation of the peritoneum are concerned; but tlie vessel is reached at a great depth, and the passing of the needle is attended with considerable difficulty. 2. Tlic liitraperiloiieal 0|M*ra1ioii.—The artery is best reached through the abdominal cavity, and now that the principles of asei)tic surgery have rendered the opening of that cavity safe, there is no doubt but that the in- traperitoneal operation will replace all others. The abdomen is opened by an incision in the median line, which will be ]>laced between the symphysis and the um- Ihlicus, and will probably have to be extended so as to reach both those points. The Trendelenburg position has