SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 18 [part I. In the upper part of its course the inner margin of the coraco-brachialis muscle is exposed in tlie place of the biceps, aiul the ulnar nerve is lying to the inner side of the vessel. Coimnent.—This artery is by no means so easy to ligature as may appear ; and in an operative surgery class no more glaring mistakes are made than occur in the course of searching for this superficial vessel. In the first place, the arm should be unsupported, and be at right angles to the trunk. If the arm be allowed to rest upon a table, the triceps may be pushed forwards, and may be then mistaken for the biceps; while the ulnar nerve has been mistaken for the median. This observation especially applies to the middle third of the limb. The vessel is mobile, and is easily displaced, and in draw- ing the biceps aside roughly with a retractor, the vessels and the median nerve have been withdrawn from the field of the operation, and possibly the ulnar nerve brought into view. 'I'he clear identification of the biceps margin is essential. The advice sometimes given, that the “sheath of the muscle” should not be opened, is neither sound nor very precise. The pulse in the brachial is often much feebler than would be imagined ; and this is especially the case in dealing with severe luemorrhage. The pulsation may be so clearly transmitted to the median nerve that that nerve has been mistaken for the ai'tery. It is asserted that the basilic vein has been mistaken for the artery. Tillaux states that a large inferior pro- funda artery has been taken for the brachial. If the incision be made too much to the inner side of the proper line, the basilic vein may be wounded, especially wheiT it is superficial, i.e. in the lower segment of the arm. In very muscular subjects the biceps may overlap the artery considerably. The frequent abnormalities of the brachial must in all instances be borne in mind. THE AXILLARY ARTERY. Line of the Artery.—A line from about the centre of the clavicle to the humerus,"close to the inner border of the