CHAP. III.] LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. 29 times of considerable size, taking the place of the external jugular j as it runs, if present, exactly' in the line of the incision, it is sometimes troublesome. The needle must be passed with great care. The artery has been transfixed by a needle whicli has been very roughly used. The descendens noni, the pneumo-gastric, and even the sympathetic cord, have been accidentally included in the ligature. 2. L.ig:atiirc below tlie Oino-liyoi<l Muscle. Operation.—The position of the patient is the same as in the previous operation. The incision is three inches in length, is in the line of the artery, and is so disposed as to commence a little below the level of the cricoid cartilage and end a little above the sterno-clavicular joint. It follows the inner border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Care must be taken to avoid the communicating vein from the facial, already described, and also the interior jugular vein. The sterno-mastoid is exposed and di’awn outwards. The bterno-hyqid and sterno-thyroid muscles are likewise made evident, and are drawn inwards. The omo hyoid, if seen, is relegated to the upper part of the wound. It may be necessary to divide the sternal part of the sterno-mastoid, and the whole or parts of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, especially if the ligature has to be applied as low down as possible. Retractors are needed to draw the muscles aside, and a good light is essential. The inferior thyroid veins may prove very troublesome. The sheath is opened on its inner side, as already described, and the needle is passed from without inwards. Comment.—The observations made upon the previous measure apply in the main to the present proceeding. The depth at which the vessel is placed renders the operation difficult and dangerous, and on the left side the surgeon’s movements are apt to be comjjlicated by the position of the internal jugular vein. The relations of the inferior thyroid artery, and-of the recurrent laryngeal nerve, must be borne in mind.