[part VIII. 314 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. surgeon should aim at leaving the parts as far as possible in their original condition, i.e. the peritoneal surface should be smooth, and the scar in the muscular and aponeurotic layers firm and unyielding. Thus the possible dangers of adhesions of intestine, omentum, etc., and of ventral hernia will be avoided. Further, if any buried sutures are employed they must be absolutely aseptic; otherwise they are apt to cause troublesome sinuses, which will only heal on the expulsion of the sutures. In many parts of the abdomen, such as the linea alba, a . good plan is to pass silkworm gut stitches through skin, apo- neuroses, muscle, and peritoneum. These sutures are securely knotted, and should be left in a full fortnight. A more per- fect peritoneal surface can, however, be obtained by first suturing the two cut edges of this layer (these edges are secured by the pressure forceps, which were applied when the wmund was made). A continuous suture line of fine catgut, introduced on a curved needle, is the most con- venient. This detail, which takes only a minute or two, is strongly recommended in the majority of cases ; besides preventing adhesions of intestine, etc., in the future, it is a convenience during the rest of the suturing, as the peritoneal cavity is thus shut off'. A series of silkworm gut sutures is then passed through the remaining layers. If the abdominal incision be extensive, a thin flat sponge of gi’eater length than the parietal wound is placed upon the intestines under the opening. It is retained during the introduction of the sutures. It serves to protect the in- testines, and to absorb such blood as oozes from the suture points before the sutures are tied. If the thread be too small and the parietes thick, the suture has a tendency to cut thi’ough the tissues. If it be too large, it acts as a species of seton. Large-sized threads of silkworm gut appear to be peculiarly well adapted for these wounds. They merely require care in tying, and a certain number should be tied in a double knot, so as to avoid the risk of giving way when the patient strains or vomits. Curved needles, three inches in length, should be used. The needles must be passed through the whole thickness of