12 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [paet i. 1. ill file Lower Tliird of tlie Fore- ai'iii. Operation.—An incision, two inches in length, is made along the line of the artery, just to the radial side of the flexor cai’pi ulnaris tendon (Fig. 2). The incision terminates an inch or less above the pisiform bone. The deep fascia— which is here very slender—is exposed and divided. The tendon of the flexor cai’pi ulnaris muscle is now displayed. The wrist is a little flexed to relax the tendon, wliich is gently drawn inwards by a blunt hook. The vessels are now exposed. The artery in this situation is bound down to the flexor profundus by a definite layer of fascia. This must be carefully divkled. The nerve is close to the artery, and upon its inner side. It may be impossible to isolate the artery from the companion veins. The needle is passed from within outwards. The palmar cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerve lies upon the artery in tliis situation, and must be avoided. Comment.—It is possible that the operator may expose the inner side of the flexor carpi ulnaris tendon by mistake. On this (the wrong) side of the tendon muscular fibres will be found entering the tendon almost down to the O wrist. On the radial side the tendon is quite clear. Care must be taken not to wound the synovial sac which accompanies the flexor sublimis digitorum tendons beneath' the annular ligament. Normally the ulnar gives off no branch in this situation. The posterior carpal arises a little above the insiform bone. 2. Li^^atiirc in tlic I?Iid<lle Tliird of llio Foi'csi rill. Operation.—An incision, from two and a half to three inches in length, according to the muscular condition of the limb, is made precisely in the line of the artery (Fig. 2). Beneath the integuments the anterior ulnar vein and liranches of the anterior division of the internal cutaneous nerve are apt to be encountered. The deep fascia is thin, and is divided in a line parallel with, but a little to the outer side of the line of, the skin incision. The surgeon now seeks for the gap between the flexor