2fU [PAKT V. SURGICA L OPERA TIONS. tendon is put upon the stretcli and is divided hy cutting from the bone. Tiie left forefinger, placed over the site of the tendon, forms a guide and a guard. The tendon of the flexor longus digitorum is usually cut at the same time, and is often divided unconsciously. The assistant .should judiciously relax the strain upon the tendon as its fibres are divided. It is obvious that if little care be taken the knife may cut through both the tendons, as through tightly-drawn cords, and may wound the main artery beyond. If the blood-vessels should be divided, a well-adjusted pad of sterilised gauze must be at once applied to the spot. Singularly little trouble appears to have supervened in examples of this accident. Parker’s Operation—Syiulesiiiotoiiiy.—In cases of congenital talipes varus in children Mr. R. W. Parker is disposed to attach much more importance to the division of ligaments and the plantar fascia than to piu'e tenotomy. The site chosen for this combined section of ligaments and tendons is a .spot a little below and in front of the tip of the inner malleolus, over the site of the asti’agalo-scaphoid joint, and in the situation of the ti’ansverse mark near the heel which is to be observed in severe talipes. Two tenotomes are needed—an ordinaiy sharp-pointed- tenotome, and a curved one of sickle shape with a cutting edge about half an inch in length. The Operation.—The foot is so placed as to fully expose its inner border, and is firmly held ; the position of the tendons and the arteries is made out so far as is possible. At the spot above mentioned the sharp tenotome is entered. It should enter in frojit of the bifurcation of the posterior tibial artery, and behind the posterior tibial tendon. The knife is jiushed forwards and outwards under the skin until a spot on the dorsum is reached just internal to the anterior tibial artery. The sharp instrument, which has made a track merely, is withdrawn. The curved tenotome is now inserted fiat wise under Ihe skin^ and follows the subcutaneoiis course already made until its point can be felt over the tibialis anticus tendon. The