[PAKT V. SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 262 sheath. The dorsalis pedis vessels lie to the outer side, with the extensor i^roprius pollicis tendon intervening. In cases of congenital club-foot the tendon is displaced inwards, and is nearer to the malleolus. It is readily made prominent. Operation.—The surgeon stands on the outer side of the limb in tlie case of either tendon. The assistant, who takes his place opposite to him, grasps the foot with one hand and the leg with the other. The foot is held in the position of extension and abduction, and the tendon is defined. The shaip tenotome is then entered vertically upon the outer side of the tendon and is pushed downwards until it has reached a point below the level of the tendon. The operator’s left forefinger is kei^t over the skin upon the plantar side of the tendon, as a guard upon the instrument. The tendon is put on the stretch. The sharp tenotome is withdrawn, and the blunt-pointed one inserted in its place. After it has reached the depth acquired by the first instru- ment (whose track it e.xact!y follows) the foot is rela.ved, and the blunt point is pushed horizontally beneath the tendon, and may be felt on its plantar side. The tendon is once more put upon the stretch, and is divided by cutting upwards towards the skin. The left forefinger lies upon the skin over the edge of the knife, and forms a certain check to its movement. The surgeon cuts, indeed, upon the left finger, the skin intervening. Tibialis Posticus TcimIoh.—The tendon becomes free of muscular fibres about the level of the tibio-fibular articulation. It grooves the back of the inner malleolus, running in the innermost compartment of the internal annular ligament. Behind the malleolus it is invested with a synovial sheath. The flexor longus digitorum tendon lies next to it (to its outer side), and is provided with a separate synovial sheath. Externally to this latter tendon run the posterior tibial ve.ssels. The tendon is usually divided above the point of com- mencement of its synovial sheath, i.e. about the level of the base of the malleolu.s, and therefore above the inner annular ligament. The tendon is here easily approached,