Manuals for Students and Practitioners of Medicine {contd.). Ophthalmic Surgery. By R. Brudenell Carter, F.R.C.S., Consulting Ophthilraic Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Ophthalmic Surgery at, St. George’s Hospital; and W. Adams Frost, F.R.C.S., Assistant Ophthalmic Surgeon to, and Joint Lecturer on Ophthalmic Surgery at, St. George’s Hospital. With Chromo Frontispiece and 91 Engravings. Second Edition. 9s. Gout, Its Pathology and Treatment. By Arthur P. Luff, M.D. Lond., B.Sc., F.R.C.P., Physician in Charge of Out-Patients and Lecturer on Forensic Medicine at St. Manx’s Hospital. Crown 8vo, 256 pages, 5s. "Dr. Luff is well known to possess a thorough knowledge of chemical science, and to be an able investig^ator of chemical phenomena. The work under review bears testi- mony to this, coQtaiaing as it does a most excellent account of the conditions which give rise to gout, together with the means to be resorted to in order to prevent or to alleviate its paroxysms.”—Medical Chronicle. Diseases of the Ear. By a. Marmaduke SheUd, M.B. Cantab., F.R.C.S. Eng., &c. With 4 Coloured Plates and 34 Woodcut Illustrations. 10s. 6(1, Food in Health and Disease. By I. Burney Yeo, M.D., F.R.C.P., Professor of the Principles and Practice of Medicine in King’s College. Ninth Thousand. 10s. 6d, MANUALS FOR Students of Medicine Published by CASSELL & COMPANY. Elements of Histology. By E. Klein, M.D., F.R.S., Lecturer on General Anatomy and Physiology in the Medical School of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, London; and J. S. Edkins, M.A., M.B., Joint Lecturer and Demonstrator of Physio- logy in the Medical School of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, London. Revised and Enlarged Edition, with 296 Illustrations. 7s. 6<i. A work which must of necessity command a u^versaJ success. It is just exactly what has long been a desideratum among students."—Medical Press and Circular, Hygiene and Public Health. By b. Arthur Whitelegge, C.B., M.D., B.Sc. Lend., D.P.H. Camh., H M. Chief Inspector of Factories. With 23 Illustrations. Eighth Thousand. 7s. 6d, “ It Is in every w.iy perfectly reliable, and In accordance with the most recently aciiuired knowledge."—£riritA Medical JoumaL Clinical Chemistry. By Charles H. Ralfe, M.D., F.R.C.F., Physician at the Loudon Hospital. With 16 Illus- trations. 5s. *' The volume deals with a subject of great and Increasing Importance, which docs not generally receive so much attention from students as it deserves. The text is concise and lucid, the chemical processes are stated In chemical formulae, and wherever they could aid the reader suitable illustrations have been Introduced,"—The Lancet.