424 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [part IX. firm iDressure, wliilst the thigh is kept somewhat flexed. It is rarely necessary to remove the spica bandage until the tenth day, when the silkworm-gut sutures are removed and a pad and bandage reapplied. At the end of a fortnight to three weeks the patient may be allowed up. No truss should be worn. The method just described is not ajjplicable to all cases. In some the conjoined tendon is poorly developed, and in some it can only be fixed to Poupart’s ligament with difficulty. This implies subsequent tension and strain when the patient uses his abdominal muscles. 2. Method of Suturing the Conjoined J\[uscles to Pou,- part’s Ligament in front of the Cord.—By the previously described method the surgeon narrows the upper opening of the inguinal canal to any desired degree, but it is not suitable for all cases, owing to the difficulties of bringing down the internal oblique and transversalis muscles to Poupart’s ligament without undue tension. The following method avoids this; it consists in “restoring the valvular action ” of these muscles by giving them a lower attach- ment ill front of the cord. It is, in fact. Sir William hlacewen’s original operation performed after the canal has been laid open, and has therefore the advantage that the sutures are passed with greater ease and certainty. It is unnecessary to open up the extei’nal ring, though whether this is done or not is a matter of small importance. It is assumed that the external oblique has been divided parallel to Poupart’s ligament, that the lower edge of the conjoined muscles where they arch over the cord has been thoroughly exposed and isolated, and that the hernial sac has been dealt with in the manner described above. The lower portion of tlie external oblique, including the external pillar of the ring, is now held up with forceps, and a curved needle carrying a strong piece of kangaroo tendon (some surgeons use stout catgut, others silk) is passed from without inwards through the external oblique just above Poupart’s ligament. The needle is then made to traverse the lower edge of the conjoined muscles from wdthiu—i.e., from their abdominal aspect—and back again, a quarter