CHAP. V.] RESECTION OF INTESTINE. 337 ti’eating the meseiitei’y consists in excising a triangular por- tion of the membrane together with the gut to be removed. The base of the triangle will be at the intestine, but will be narrower than the length of bowel removed. By allowing the mesentery to overlap the divided ends, as it were, tlie vascular supply of those segments is the less interfered with. The margins of the wounds in the mesentery are then care- fully brought together by a continuous suture. 4. The divided ends of the bowel are now thoroughly well cleansed, and all soiled sponges are removed and re- placed by fresh ones. The mucous membrane may be found to protrude con- siderably, and to appear to interfere with the pi’oper adjust- ment of the sutures. On no account, howevei’, should any portion of this membrane be pared away. The sutures may now be applied. If it is intended to introduce a double row, then the surgeon proceeds at once to unite the margins of the divided mucous membrane. In an operation like the present, where time is usually a matter of considerable importance, the inner row of sutures may be dispensed with, or may at least be replaced by a con- tinuous suture, which can be rapidly introduced. The surface sutures will be applied according to Lem- bert’s method, and in the manner already described. The weak part of the suture line will be at the mesen- teric border. It is at the line of the attachment of this membrane that the first stitches are applied. Use must be made of any peritoneum which has been saved from the mesentery, and sufficient must be found to serve as a cover- ing for the bare portion of the bowel. Not only must the muscular coats be well brought together at this part, but inturned flaps of peritoneum covering that coat must also be brought into direct and close contact. After the mesenteric border has been dealt with, it is most convenient to turn next to the free or opposite boi’der of the intestine, and to insert three or four sutures there. The surgeon may then introduce a batch of three or four sutures upon the lateral parts of the bowel, at points on either side, midway between the first two sets of sutures.