TRACHEOTOMY. CHAP. I.] 285 3. Opoiiiiiff tlio Trac’lioa.—A .small sharp hook is now introduced into the cricoid cartilage, and is given to the assistant to hold who stands at the head of the table. The hook is kept precisely in the middle line, and is used to fix and draw forwards the cricoid cartilage, and to render the trachea tense. The assistant must give a little play to the hook, as the larynx moves with each inspiration. With the left forefinger the operator feels the u])per rings of the trachea, and with a slender scaljDel, held with the edge towards the patient’s chin, he stabs the trachea in the median line some three rings l>elow the ci’icoicl, and cuts up on to the hook (v. Fig. 87). The noisy rush of air entering and escaping through the wound, the coughing of the child, and the exjDulsion of mucus and membrane bring about a moment of confusion. The hook must not be removed. It remains as an easy guide to the median line of the trachea and the site of the opening therein. The opening must be free. If the hook be not used, the operator may miss the slit in the trachea he has already made, and may, in his haste, pi’oceed to make another. 4. luli-otliiclioii of tlio Tube.—The right marmn of the cut in the trachea should be lightly seized with the toothed forceps, which are held in the left hand ; and while the opening is thus for a* moment demonstrated and fixed, the tube and pilot are slipped in. If the forceps be em- ployed as directed, the tube can be introduced with certainty and ease. If no such precaution be taken, much time may be wasted in driving the pilot hither and thither in search of the slit-like opening, which is veiy easily lost. The depth of the wound, the cpiantity of blood and mucus which may fill it, and the movements of the trachea, may readily cause the site of the opening to be lost, especially if the trachea has not been well exposed and the fascia freely divided. It will usually be found more convenient to restoie the child’s head to the erect position before the tube is intro-