66 [part II. SVRGICAL OPERATIONS. infra-oi’bital nerve nearer-to its commencement by exposing it through the lioor of the orbit. An incision is made along or near the lower margin of the orbit, the orbital fascia is divided, and the contents of the cavity are displaced upwards by means of a thin spatula. The infra-orbital groove is exposed, and the nerve divided as far back as possible. If the terminal part has been brought into view through the skin incision, a con- siderable part of the nerve might be drawn out after the division. The Trunk ol the Superior ITIaxiilary ]\erve ami Meckel’s Oaiiglioii. —A V-shaped incision is made on the front of the cheek, so placed that the apex points directly downwards and the centre of the V is opposite to the infra-oi’bital foramen. The incision should form two sides of an equilateral triangle, each limb of which measures a little more than one inch. The knife is carried at once down to the bone, and the triangular Hap formed by the soft parts is turned up over tlie lower lid. A long silk suture is introduced into the apex of the flap, in order that it may be draAvn well upwards out of the surgeon’s way. The infra-orbital nerve is sought for and isolated as it is emerging from the foramen. The bone having been cleared, a portion of the anterioj; wall of the antrum measuring from ^ to f of an inch square is removed with a chisel and mallet. The infra-orbital foramen will be a little above the centre of the part removed. The mucous lining of the antrum having been divided, that cavity is fully opened. The posterior wall of the antrum is now exposed, and a portion about | of an inch square is cut away with a fine chisel and mallet. The next step consists in dividing the mucous lining on the roof of the antrum, under the course of the infra-orbital canal. The bone forming the floor of this canal must be broken away from one end of the maxilla to the other. This is best effected by means of scissors, aided by a fine bradawl and a slender bone elevator or stout director. The