[part ui. SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 84 certainly not true, and even in the case of the middle and ring fingers the first phalanx alone will, as a rule, provide a useful and mobile stump. As the bones of the finger are comparatively large in relation to the surrounding soft parts, the flaps must be cut comparatively long. Thus a single palmar flap should be equal to one diameter and a half of the digit. If unequal dorsal and palmar flaps are cut, the palmar flap should be longer than the diameter of the digit, while the dorsal flap should be about the third of the palmar. Flaps should be so cut that the cicatrix is removed from pressure. The scar, therefore, should not be on the extremity of the stump nor upon its palmar aspect. In other words, it is upon the dorsum that the scar may most conveniently be placed. For this reason a single palmar flap or a predominating palmar flap (when two are cut) represents the best method in amputation through the fingers. The stump which results is covered with firm and vascular skin, well able to withstand pressure, and is indued with the remarkable sensibility of the part. A dorsal flap involves a covex'ing for the stump which is thin, ill supplied with blood, little able to withstand pressure, and of slight sensibility. The fibrous sheaths for the flexor tendons when cut across, as in these operations, form rigid tubes along which pus, if suppuration should ensue, may pass and enter the palm of the hand. The flexor tendons retract after divi- sion, but the sheaths do not, so there is provided in the depths of the stump a natux’al drainage-tube, the remote end of which leads into the palm; if no suppuration occurs, this hidden channel will produce no evil. It is soon occluded and unable to be harmful. If the stump, however, does suppurate, as may occur after crushes of the ■fingers, the pus can find its way with great readiness into the rigid patent fibrous tube, and then ensues deep-seated suppuration in the stump and in the palm. To avoid this serious hindrance to healing, the fibi’ous sheath should be closed when'possible after all amputations of the fingers and thumb in which there is any doubt as to