SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 52 [part I. k 1.1. The patient lies u[)on the back, with the thighs extended and close together. The head and shoulders should be raised, in order to relax the abdominal parietes a little. The surgeon stands to the outer side of the body in dealing with either artery, and cuts from above downwards on the right side, and from below upwards on the left, liis face is towards the patient’s face. In slender subjects the left artery might be rpiite conveniently tied, as the operator stands to the right of tlie patient’s body. The cliief assistant is placed opposite to the surgeon, and to him is entrusted the responsible office of using the retractor. A good broad retractor is needed, together with long dissecting forceps, and an aneuiysm needle with a lateral curve. A good light is essential. A reflector will be found convenient, but the most substantial aid is afforded by a portable electric lamp. With such a lamp as this the main difficulties of the operation are removed. There are two principal methods of exposing the artery extraperitoneally, both of which have been modified beyond recognition,, and which are known as Cooper’s operation and Abernethy’s method. (1) Sir Astley Cooper’s Operation (d/ocf^ec^).—^The posi- tion of the patient has been already indicated. An incision, three and a half inches in length, is made above Poupart’s ligament. The cut is commenced about one inch and a quarter to the outer side of the spine of the os pubis, and is placed three-eighths of an inch above Poupart’s ligament. For the inner two-thirds of its length it runs parallel with the ligament, but for the outer one-third it curves a little upwards away from the ligament. The skin and subcutaneous tissues are cut through, and in the latter will be divided the superficial epigastric artery and vein. The white, glistening aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle is now exposed, and is divided in the line of the skin inchsion. The knife follows very nearly the direction of its fibres. The parts being retracted, the surgeon .seeks for the external border of the conjoined tendon, which will be made out at the inner end of the wound.