SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [part VIII. ;i38 Finalhy, the gaps between the four isolated batches of sutures are tilled up, and the union of the divided ends is completed. The clamps are now removed. The surgeon next turns to the mesenteiy. If a triangular portion has been removed, the margins of the gap are brought together by several points of suture—or, better still, by a continuous suture. 5. The bowel is well cleansed, the sponges that have held the coil in place are removed, and the sutured loop is allowed to drop back into the abdomen. The abdominal wound is then closed; and, unless distinct reasons exist to the con- trary, no drainage tube is introduced. The application of the sutures is much aided by the use of a hone bobbin. This bobbin is especially of use in closing a faical tistula and the gap left by colotomy. In many of these cases the absolute division of the bowel into two parts may often be avoided. If the bowel has been completely divided, the mucous membrane about the attached part of the gut is united. When about half the circumference has thus been sutured the bobbin may be introduced and kept in place by an assistant. The union of the divided mucous membrane is then completed; and tinally the outer coats are united by means of a closely placed series of Lembert’s sutures. II. ENTERECTOMY WITH MURPHY’s BUTTON. The method of performing this has already been de- scribed. It should be noted that in resection of intestine, and still more in gastro-jejunostomy, the heavier part of the button should be inserted into the lower segment of the bowel. Care should be taken to press the two halves together with just sufficient force, and not to rotate or twist the segments of bowel in bringing them together. It is advisable to insert a few Lembert’s sutures, especially towards the mesenteric attachment. Any redundant mucous membrane should be cut off before bringuig the two halves of the button together. The button is usually passed per rectimi at the end of two to three weeks if the jDatient does well.