.349 COLOTOMY. CHAP, vm.] site of the bowel (Fig. 100). It will b‘e about parallel to the last rib, or will follow a line drawn from tbe anterior superior spine to the angle between the twelfth rib and the mass of the erector spinas muscle. The length of the incision will be mainly influenced by the thickness of the tissues, and this for the most part will depend upon the degree of corpulency. The tendency is rather to make the inci.sion too long. After the skin and superflcial structures have been divided, the external oblique and latissimus dorsi muscles will be exposed. The flbres of these muscles are in this situation vertical. They should be divided by a single clean cut through the whole length of the incision. The layer of the internal oblique will next come into view. The fibres are found running somewhat obliquely upwards and forwards. This muscle is also cleanly divided through the whole length of the original wound. In the posterior part of the wound the fascia lumborum will probably come into view. Tliere are now exposed a few of the hinderraost fibres of the ti’ansversalis muscle, which are nearly transverse in direction, and the fascia lumborum. If the incision has been made as described, the actual amount of muscle tissue ex- posed in the depths of the wound will be slight. The muscle and the fascia are now divided to the full length of the wound. Before this division is made it will probably be noted that the twelfth dorsal nerve, accom- panied by the abdominal branch of a lumbar artery, is cros.sing the area of tlie operation. It is as Avell to avoid cutting the little artery. In the posterior part of the incision the clear anterior border of the quadratus lumborum will be seen (Fig. 100). The fibres of that muscle seldom, if ever, need to be divided. Broad rectangular retractors will be found very useful at this stage of the operation. A little fat may now dome into view, and be mistaken for the subperitoneal tissue". It is the fat beneath the tran.sversalis fascia. This fascia must be sought for and demonstrated, and