CHOLEDOCHOTOM Y. CHAP. XI.] 385 same as for cholecystotomy (page 381). It is essential to liave a firm sand-bag behind the patient’s loins, and after the abdomen is opened the assistant should draw the liver and costal edge well upwards so as to expose and straighten out the biliary ducts. A vertical incision of the abdominal wall through the semilunar line or right I’ectus muscle is usually employed, to which it is easy to add a short transverse one. Some surgeons advocate a nearly trans- verse incision reaching towards the lumbar region. Such a cut is somewhat more liable to be followed by a ventral hernia. Adhesions of the gall-bladder and liver to the stomach or duodenum, if present, must be carefully sej^arated, and the gall-bladder is drawn upwards with the liver. If the gall-bladder is felt to contain calculi it is opened and the latter are evacuated. After the fluid has been let out the opening should be guarded by sponges or gauze held in place by an assistant whilst the operator traces down the cystic and common bile-ducts. With finger and thumb he ascertains the position and number of calculi present in the common duct. A frequent place for impaction in the duct is just above the orifice into the duodenum, where the duct is somewhat dilated (forming the ampulla of Vater). It will be remembered that the duodenal orifice is the narrowest part of the duct, and that it is situated at the inner and posterior aspect of the duodenum, just at the angle between the second and third parts of the bowel. Besides the ampulla of Vater there may be another dilated portion of the common duct in which calculi are apt to lodge, immediately below the junction of the cystic and hepatic ducts. In tracing down the common bile-duct in its lower half some assistance will be obtained by slightly detaching and depressing the duodenum. The greatest care is necessary in doing this, owing to the close relation of the portal vein (behind the duct) and the hepatic artery to its left. The pancreatico duodenal artery (a branch of the hepatic) may give trouble. The lowest inch or more of the duct is quite inaccessible from above j it can only lie reached through the duodenum.