STRANGULATED HERNIA. CHAP. I.] 409 is already much exhausted, and in which it is desirable to complete the operation with as little delay as possible, the sac may be left as it is, and the wound closed. In cases of a less extreme degree, in which no com- plication exists that opposes the measure, the sac may be dealt with according to one of the methods of “ radical cure.” In the majority of cases the simpler the measure the better. The wound having been well washed out, and any redundant skin removed, the margins of the incision are united by sutures. 4. Treatment of Coiiiplicatioiis.—a. When the Intestine is Adherent to the Sac.—Adhesions of the bowel to omentum are readily enough dealt with. The omentum, if it cannot be peeled off from the intestine, is cut away with scissors until only the slightest trace of it is left still attached to the guf, which can then be reduced. Adliesions of the bowel to the sac may, wlien slight and recent, be broken down with the finger or a flat director; when, however, they are of old standing and extensive, their treatment becomes a matter of some diffi- culty. These examples of extensive and firm adhesions are for the most part met with in old umbilical or scrotal hei’nife of large size, which have been for many years iri’e- ducible, and have perhaps been more than once inflamed. The “ breaking-down ” of such adhe.sious must be a matter of infinite care, as the bowel is, as a rule, more readily torn than is the wall of the sac. Many of the adhesions can be divided with scissors or a scalpel, and some* may be torn through after partial division. B. When the Gut is Gangrenous.—Much has been written upon the subject of the treatment of gangrenous intestine in hernia, and very remarkable differences of opinion have been expressed upon the question. It would be out of place to" enter into a discussion of this subject, or to consider minutely the phy.sical signs that may dis- tinguish intestine which is gangrenous from that which may still recover.