SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [PABT IT. 240 bone. The cut ends at the tip of the inner malleolus. A curved or transverse incision (Fig. 80, b) may be made to meet the lower end of the wound at right angles. 5. The Removed of the Articular Surface of the Tibia.— The periosteum of the tibia is incised vertically, and that membrane is peeled from the bone so that it may be con- tinuous with the periosteo-capsular layers already separated upon the outer side. The intei’nal lateral ligament is divided vertically in the manner ah’eady described with regard to the outer ligament. As soon as the tibia is sufficiently free, the malleolar end of it is made to project a little through the wound, and while the soft parts are well protected with retractors, the bone is divided horizontally with a keyhole saw. This section removes the internal malleolus and the diseased articular surface of the tibia. A thin layer of bone should be removed with the saw, and, if necessary, any patches of caries should be further gouged out. The fragment is grasped with lion forceps and removed. 6. The Sawing of the Astragalus.—The surgeon finally, turns once more to the outer incision, and through that wound removes with the saw as much of the upper part of the asti’agalus as is necessary. The section should be horizontal. If found absolutely necessary, the whole of the astragalus may be removed through the external incision. The best result will, however, be obtained if firm bony ankylosis occurs between the cut surface of the tibia and astragalus, and hence the less that is removed of that bone the better, so long as all tuberculous foci are dealt with. 7. The Excision of the Tubercidous Synovial Mem- brane, etc.—This should be carefully and systematically done, the surgeon paying special attention to the joint capsule behind the extensor tendons, the prolongation upwards of the cavity between the tibia and fibula, and to diseased pouches which are often present on either side of the joint. If these latter cannot be dissected out, they must be thoroughly scraped with Yolkmann?s scoops.