CHAP. V.] .o;> LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. meat, and the rent in tlie external obli(|ue apunenrosi.s be closeil by a few points of buried suture. No drainage-tube is recjuired. Comment.—The wound must be of sufficient length, and Ije carefully placed. If it be made too low down, there is danger of dividing the circumflex iliac vessels; if made too high up, of cutting into the internal abdominal ring. If it be canned too far outwards, an unnecessary amount of muscular tissue is divided; and if too far inwards, the external ring and the structures of the cord may be placed in jeopardy. With care, however, it is eas}^ to displace the cord upwards if necessaiy. The tissues must be cleanly divided. The transversalis fascia should bo cut sufficiently high to avoid the circum- flex iliac vein, but not at too great a height. Care should be taken not to needlessly tear up the sub- peritoneal fatty tissue, and infinite care must be taken of the peritoneum. It should not be too extensively stripped up, and in clearing the artery with the finger it is possi- ble to detach the vessel fi'om the psoas muscle. The vein has been damaged in passing the aneurysm needle, and the genito-crural nerve has been included in the ligature. The peritoneum has been not unfrequently opened. This has resulted sometimes from too high an incision, because the serous membrane becomes more and more intimately connected with the transversalis fascia the I'arther the distance from Poupart’s ligament. The peri- toneal cavity has also been often opened up by the in- cautious ^use of the steel dii’ector (an instrument which should never be employed in this operation), and by a too free manipulation with the handle of the scalpel. When proper asepsis is being observed, a wound of the peritoneum involves no extra risk. It is simply incon- venient, as it allows omentum or intestine to get in the way. Should the peritoneum be accidentally incised, the best course is to sew up the wound in it with a fine con- tinuous catgut .suture, then to 2^ush the peritoneal pouch