8URGICAL OPERATIONS. 28 [part I. The artery is very mobile, and slips readily to and fro under tlie finger. If the pulse be feeble it may present the physical characters of a flat cord. Ill exposing the sheath of the artery, care must be taken to avoid the sterno-mastoid vessel and the superior or middle thyroid veins. The sheath should be opened upon the inner side, and precaution taken not to damage the descendens noni nerve. Holding the sheaf by the inner lip of the wound which has been made in it, the surgeon, with an unthreaded aneurysm needle, should clear the artery upon its inner side. Holding, then, tlie outer lip of the sheath in the forceps, the outer side of the vessel can be cleared. By shifting the forceps as required, the whole circumference of the artery can be sepai’ated from its sheath. This process must be carried out with great care and with thoroughness. The needle is passed from without inwards, is then threaded and withdrawn, bringing the ligature with it. Comment.—In uncomplicated cases the operation is very simple. If the tissues are matted together, or are en- croached upon by blood clot, or are displaced by a tumour or growth,, the procedure may be attended with no little ditticulty and risk. If the head be turned too much to the opposite side, the sterno-mastoid is carried unduly far over the artery, and the border of the muscle may be missed. The operation may be much complicated by the pi’esence of large or distended veins. The internal jugular vein is of considerable size, is very thin, and is readily wounded. Its proportions are influenced by the respiratory movements, and, when the breathing is embarrassed, it becomes at one time enormously swollen, and at another moment flat and comparatively small. Two other veins, though of less importance, may give trouble in the operation. One is the middle thyroid vein, whicli joins the internal jugular, passing outwards either over or under the artery. The other is a communicating vein between the facial or external jugular and the anterior jugular low down in the neck. It is inconstant, but is some-