CHOLEC YSTOTOM Y. CHAP. XI.] 383 The tingei' introduced through the opening feels for the stones, notes their position, and ascertains the best means for removing tliem. Loose atones may be removed witli the finger, or by means of scoops or forceps of suitable size and pattern. Long and slender scoops—aided by a finger outside the gall-bladder—are more useful than forceps. If a stone be discovered impacted in the neck of the gall- bladder, it is well, before attempting its removal, to suture the margins of the wound in the gall-bladder to those of the wound in the parietes. Inasmuch as the walls of the bladder are thin and often weak, the greatest care must be exercised in this, the most difficult part of the operation. It is often well to suture only a part of the gall-bladder wound to the muscular wall, and to introduce the Unger into the unsutured interval, so that it may supplement the action of forceps and scoops introduced into the interior of the A’iscus. Before the suturing is carried out, all the sponges must be removed and counted. In dislodging stones, Tait’s special forceps are occasion- ally of service, and their movements within the bladder may be guided by the finger introduced into the abdomen, and placed against the outer wall of the cyst at the site of the impacted stone. Sometimes the stone may be prised upwards by means of the finger so introduced. If the calculus cannot be dislodged, then it may some- times be very slowly and cautiously chipped into fragments by means of forceps, the action of which is controlled by the finger outside the gall-bladder. In some cases the impacted stone has been broken up by means of forceps, the blades of which are padded with indiarubber tubing, applied to the stone outside, and there- fore through the walls of the neck of the gall-bladder, or by pressure between finger and thumb. The detritus which results from these 2)rocedures is got rid of by repeated washings. xVtternpts to push the stone onwards through the duct by means of a probe or director have not met with much