COLOTOM Y. ciiAi’. Via.] upon by means of forceps, with the result that tlie skin and the bowel wall are brought into close contact. B}" means of a small curved Hagedorn’s needle, the skin is in the next place united all round to the intestine by many points of suture. The needle should only concern the skin on the one hand and the muscular coat of the bowel on the other. The lumen of the gut should on no account be penetrated. Fine silk may be used for this purpose. If this be well done, it is quite impossible for any faecal matter to find its way into the de[)ths of the wound ; and should there be a rent in the peritoneum, it will at least be etficiently shut off'from communication with the surface. The part is well dusted with iodoform. The hard pillow is removed, and the patient’s body is a little inclined over to the affected side. A piece .of lint well smeared with vaseline is at hand to form a surface over which the escaping faecal matter may run. Finally, the forceps are removea from the gut, and an opening is made into the bowel by means of a small scalpel. The opening is quite large enough if it will admit the point of the little finger. The amount of flatus and faeces that escapes varies remarkably. By means of a curved Hagedorn’s needle of medium size,, or a curved needle in a handle, the final sutures are introduced. They concern the whole thickness of the coats of the bowel on the one hand, and the skin on the other. Silkworm gut should be the material employed. The needle is introduced tlu’ough the skin, and its point is made to appear in the interior of the bowel. A fresh needle and a fresh thread are employed for each suture. If the sutui’e be passed in the opposite direction—i.e., from the mucous membrane to the skin—a faecal seton is practically drawn through the tissues. Silk should not be employed, as it favours the passage of intestinal fluid along its fibres by capillaiy attraction. Of all ligature materials, it is the one least well suited for the present j^urpose. In securing the bowel, it is well to avoid too many stitches, too large needles, and too thick suture mateidal. 31