CHAP. VIII.] 123 AMPUTATIONS. The Hap is drawn well upwards hy an assistant, and the outer surface of the shoulder joint is thereby exposed. (3) A transverse incision, involving the skin only, is now made across the inner side of the arm, about two inches below the outlet of the axilla. It joins the great wound in front and behind. (4) Disarticulation is finally eftected in the manner already described, and the operation is completed precisely as in Spence’s method. That is to say, after the disarticu- lation the head of the bone is thrust upwards and outwards, and is grasped by the sui’geon, who passes his knife behind it so as to cut the very short internal fiap. In efiPecting this the knife at first passes downward close to the bone, and divides the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, and teres major muscles. It is then made to cut its way sharply out- wards through the incision already made in the skin. In this, the last movement of the knife, ai’e divided the coraco-brachialis, biceps, and triceps, with the axillary vessels and nerves. An assistant follows the knife with his thumbs, and compresses the great vessels, before they are cut, in the manner already detailed. Haimorrhage.—In the deltoid fiap there will be bleeding from the muscular branches only, notably from such as are furnished by the acromio-thoracic artery. The posterior circumfiex artery will have been cut. The axillary vessels are divided at the free edge of the inner fiap, the artery being cut below the origin of the two circumfiex vessels. These arteries will be found severed in the margin of the inner fiap, and the postei’ior of the two will cei’tainly require a ligature. This opei’ation has little to recommend it except raphlity of execution. The fiap is not so good as that formed out of the deltoid alone, a very wide section of muscles is made, and the procedure has no advantages which can counter- balance the difficulty attending its performance. Coininciit.—Of the two operations described in this chapter, the best is undoubtedly the racket method per- formed on the general lines of Spence’s description.