102 SURQICAL OPERATIONS. [part m. Tlie remaining steps of the operation are nearly identical with those of the circular method. The integuments on the dorsum are separated up until the styloid pi’ocesses and the joint-line are cleared. The surgeon, holding the pronated hand in the position of forced flexion, now divides in order the lateral ligament on the left, the extensor tendons and posterior ligament, and the lateral ligament on the right. The tendons are divided immediately opposite to the articulation, which is thus freely opened. The anterior ligament is now severed close to the carpus. The hand, still hanging down in the position of pro- nation and flexion, is so rotated that one or other border is turned forwards so as to face the surgeon. While in this position the lateral parts of the ellipse are deepened towards the palm, and the two bony eminences at the root of the palm are cleared, the knife being kept close to the bone. The instrument is held vertically, with its point down- wards, and is passed between the mass of the flexor tendons and the hollow of the carpus. With the knife held in this position the “ carpal canal ” is cleared out. Nothing now remains but to divide the flexor tendons and the surrounding soft parts. The tendons are dragged upon and are cut obliquely from within outwards, the knife—now held horizontally—finally following the existing cutaneous incision. When the wound is adjusted, the cicatrix appears as a curved line upon the dorsum. Hcemorrhage.—The radial artery is cut in disarticu- lating, and is found divided at the outer extremity of the dorsal wound. It is severed above the origin of the branches to the thumb and index finger. In the inner portion of the palmar flap the ulnar artery • is divided as it is forming the commencement of the super- ficial palmar arch. Deeper in this part of the palmar flap the deep branch of the ulnar artery is cut. In the outer segment of the palmar flap the superficialis volse will be found severed.