121 CHAP. VIII.] AMPUTATIONS. excision, the trunk of the j^osterior circumflex is pro- tected.* “ Disarticulation is then accomplished, and the limb removed by dividing the remaining soft parts on the axillary aspect.” (4) The tinalstep of the operation is effected as follows:— The arm, abducted and rotated out, is thrust upwards by an assistant until the head of the bone is projecting well above the glenoid cavity. The surgeon, taking hold of the head thus made prominent, draws it away from the trunk, while he glasses his knife behind it so as to cut the posterior part of the capsule and the only remaining tissues—those of the axilla—which connect the arm to the trunk. An assistant follows the knife with his two thumbs, while he keeps the fingers of lioth hands spread out over the axillary integument. Just before tlie main vessels are divided he firmly compresses them, and holds the flap until the several trunks are secured. All the soft parts on the axillary aspect are divided with one sweep of the knife, which is made to emerge from the skin wound already marked out. The operation is completed by cutting the axillary nerves short, and by uniting the wound so as to form a vertical cicatrix. Spence pointed out that the main vessel might he secured by ligature early in the operation, if thought well. “ By a few touches of the bistoury,” he writes, “ the vessel can be exposed, and can then be tied and divided between two ligatures, so as to allow it to retract before dividing the other textures.” In disarticulating, the capsule should be divided trans- versely by a cut made upon the head of the bone. The three muscles attached to the greater tuberosity are cut while the humerus is being rotated in, the subscapularis while it is being rotated out. * This is a point of much importance, as, unle.ss special care is taken, the posterior circumflex artery is ajit to be divided or notched close to its origin. If this accident haijpens, not only is the nutrition of the deltoid and skin endangered, but considerable trouble may be found in tying the vessel.