283 TRACHEOTOMY. CHAP. I.] 1. Po<!«itioii of the Psitioiit.—Tlie_ child is en- veloped in a thin macintosh sheets and is placed close to the right edge of the table. The surgeon stands by the same side of the table. The neck is supported on a firm sand- bag of suitable size. When the child is ready the head should be drawn well over the uj^per end of the table, so that the vertex is turned nearly towards the ground. The sand-bag will be placed close to the upper edge of the table, and over it the child’s head is extended in this extreme manner. This position renders the structures on the front of the neck tense, steadies the trachea, di awsas much of that tube up into the neck as is possible, and brings it a little nearer to the surface. The superficial veins are, moreover, a little emptied of their blood by this attitude of over-extension. The amesthetist stands at the head of the table, and the important duty should be imposed upon him of holding the head steady, and of keeping the chin most rigidly in a line with the sternal notch. , If the head be allowed to fall over to one or other side, the position of the middle line is lost. An assistant stands 1^ the side of the anesthetist, and will, later, take charge of the sharp hook. 2. Exposius- the Traclica.—An incision is made with a sharp scalpel very precisely in the median line of the neck. Its length will be about one incli or an inch and a half, and its upper extremity will be at the u|)|)er border of the cricoid cartilage. Before making this cut, the surgeon should have accurately defined the position of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. Tlie latter cartilage is often difficult to detect in stout subjects, and especially in young infants. The skin and the trachea are steadied with the left hand while the cut is being made. The right hand must be unsu])ported. If the operator rests his wrist upon the upper part of the child’s chest, as he is tempted to, he will find that the rapid movements of the thorax in laboured breathing render that part no proper place for support.