3(33 CHAP. IX.] REMOVAL OF APPENDIX. ciently turned back to make room for the ligature. The turning back of a cuff or flap or hood of peritoneum is use- less. Such a cuff makes the poorest possible covering for the stump of the appendi.x, and is piobably absolutely bloodless. The ligature is securely tied. The appendix is then cut ofi‘ with scissors close to the ligature. The scissors thus used are at once put aside, and must not be emjdoyed again until they have been fieed of infection. The stump of mucous membrane is trimmed down, and the instrument or instruments used are ]mt aside, as they will be infected. The practice of applying the actual cautery or pure carbolic acid to the appendix stump is to be condemned. So long as the divided stump is exposed it is held in position by the ligature vhich encircles it. The utmost care must he taken that it touches nothing. If it acci- dentally touches the parietal wound, the wound is quite likely to give trouble later on. The stump is now seques- trated by a series of Lembert’s sutures, made of fine silk. The sutui’es involve the cjecal wall around the stump of the appendix. The stump is thus inturned and hidden from view, and is perfectly secured. To cover the stump with a hood or flap of peritoneum derived from the appendix itself is not, I repeat, to cover it efficiently. Such a flap is often impossible to provide. All ligatures are cut short, and the cjecum is returned into the abdomen. Occasionally the peritoneal coat of the cajcum is not avail- able for helping to cover in the apjDendix stump. In such an instance it is easy to find suitable serous membrane in the vicinity. It is important that the apijendix should be divitled as close to the ciecum as is po.ssible. of the Wound. Small Vjlunt hooks are introduced into the ends of the wound, and by means of them the edges of the wound are kept in jierfect line, and theparietes are withdrawn from the subjacent viscera. The pressure forceps, which still hold the cut edges of the peri- toneum, are removed by cutting away the little tag of (damaged) peritoneum which they grip between theii' blade.s. The peritoneum is united by a few very fine silk