[part VI. SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 278 Needles of A'arious curves should be at hand. In no opera- tion is a complex needle-holder more out of place than in this. “ When there is too much tension to admit of the sutures being tied at once, they should all be passed, and, being held as described above, longitudinal incisions may be made on either side parallel to the cleft and just internal to the hamular process, avoiding the immediate neighbourhood of the posterior palatine foramen. Sufficient relaxation being obtained, the remaining sutures are tightened up.” If after the lateral incisions have been made the tension is not amply relieved, it is Avell to introduce a slender- pointed raspatory or vivisector’s tool through the incision, and with it to detach the muscular and tendinous structures from the hamular process. I have found such a step always to answer its purpose completely. Throughout the operation, bleeding must be checked by gentle pressure with a sponge in a holder. The .sponge should, however, be used as little as possible. 'The indis- criminate and persistent dabbing of the palate with a sponge tends to excite movement of the palatal and pharyngeal muscles, to produce vomiting and coughing, and to greatly increase the flow of saliva. OPERATION ON THE HARD PALATE. Tlie flaps consist of all the tissues down to the bom;. In order to avoid tension when the sutures are secured, it is necessary in all cases to lift up Avith a raspatory the flaps from the cleft outAA^ards for a considerable distance, in addition to making an incision just behind the hamular jn’ocess to free the soft palate. Particular attention must be paid to the junction of the hard and soft palate Avhere the tissues are most firmly attached to the bone along the posterior edge of the hard palate. At this spot partial tailure to unite is often met Avith in otherwise successful cases. The blood supply of the palate, both hard and soft, is almost entirely deriA-ed from the posterior palatine artery—