[part IX. SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 418 be tied with catgut. In the great majority of cases the sur- geon will incise the external oblicpe hoin one inguinal ring to the other, but whether this be done or not the cremasteric covering of the cord must be opened in order that the hernial sac may be reached. The sac is almost invariably found in front of the main structures in the cord, and, if empty, is distinguished by its white colour and well-defined edge from the connective tissue, etc., which surrounds it. IVletliod of Doaliiig;^ with the llei'iii:il Sae. —Two rules may be laid down : First, the contents of tlie .sac must be wholly returned within the abdomen; second, the sac itself must lie isolated right up to the internal ring. With regard to the contents, but little difficulty is usually met with in reducing intestine. In some exceptional cases of hernia of the caecum or sigmoid flexure it may be neces- sary to dissect oft adhesions to the posterior wall; but any small intestine is readily returned and prevented from pro- truding during the further step by sponge pressure. Occasionally the bladder ^irojects into the hernial sac on its inner side, anrl special caution should be exercised lest it should be opened during the dissection—an accident which has happened in many cases. Much more frequently the omentum gives trouble, owing to its adhe.sions or to its local hypertrophy.* It is essential that the omentum should be freed completely, and, if necessary, the protruding part is excised after securing its neck by several catgut ligatures. This should be done •slowly and carefully, as in several instances death has followed the slipping of a ligature from the omental pedicle. The omentum should never be used to })lug the hernial orifice (as recommended by some writers), since it not only favours recurrence, but may cause trouble by dragging down the transverse colon and stomach, or even lead to fatal intestinal obstruction. * In dealing with adherent omentum it is often host to disregard the lower adhesions, and commence with the pedicle, where they will probably be absent. After ligature and division of this the omentum in the sac can be removed in one piece with the latter. This method is still more useful in umbilical hernia.