308 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [PAUT VIII. little longer. The knife should make a clean cut through the skin and subcutaneous tissues down to the aponeurosis. Bleeding is checked by pressure forceps, which ai’e left in situ.- The bleeding vessels must be neatly isolated and neatly picked up. A casual mass of subcutaneous fat must not be clutched up with the vessel between the blades of the forceps. The operator need not trouble about the sheath of the rectus. There is no linea alba below the umbilicus, and the knife need only follow the median line, avoiding the cutting of muscle as far as possible. Unless the two recti are separated by distension, one or both of the rectus sheaths will as a rule be opened. The transversalis fascia is now reached. It is possible to mistake it for the peritoneum, and the subpei'itoneal fat beyond for omentum. This fascia and the fat, if any, beneath should be divided by a clean cut of the knife. No director is required, nor should one be used. It is about this stage of the operation that some surgeons enlarge the ai'ea of the wound with the fingers, tearing up the fascia in a meaningless manner. All such handling of the wound is useless, and distinctly to be avoided. The advice that the peritoneum should be exposed by tearing is not sound. It is important to clearly recognise the peritoneum. It is best identified by noting the tissues that have been cut through. The “blue colour,” the “ glistening surface,” and the “ arborescent vessels ” belong to the department of fiction. When adhesions exist, the peritoneum may not be demonstrable as a coherent membrane. Before any attempt is made to open the abdominal cavity all bleeding should have been checked. Any pressure forceps that are attached need not be removed at the present stage. The peritoneum should be pinched up as a very minute fold with a good pair of dissecting forceps. Normal peritoneum can be so picked up. Thickened and adherent peritoneum cannot be thus dealt with, nor can the wall of the bowel be quite so readily and minutely picked up should a piece of gut be exposed and its surface be mistaken for the lining membrane. The forceps that grasp the little fold of peritoneum should be moved to and fro and lifted up and