4G3 TREPHINING. CH.VP. I.] needed. The centre-i^in of the instrument is introduced ; the crown is then applied to the sound bone near to the fracture. As a rule, it is so applied that two-thirds or three-fourths of the circle will be upon the sound skull, and the remaining third or fourth o\mr the fractured area. Th(‘ trephine should not be placed so far over the injured area as to produce trouble by jarring any fragment whicli may l)e lying in contact with the dura mater. The point is bored into the bone, and then the trephine is made to cut into the skull by light sharp movements from left to right, and from right to left. At first the instrument may be steadied by the left fore- finger, which rests upon the skull. As soon as a groove has been cut all round, the pin may be withdrawn, and the instrument will be found to maintain a steady hold of the part. The pressure must be evenly maintained throughout, and will be found to be chiefly e.vei’cised when the hand is turned from left to right (the supination movement). At first the bone-dust is dry, but as soon as the dense outer table is cut through it becomes soft and bloody. As the trephine enters the diploe the softer character of the resist- ing medium is at once recognised. The wound in the bone must be kept constantly clear of dust by frequent irrigation and the use of the quill. The depth of the groove in the skull must be estimated from time to time with the quill. Inasmuch as the skull is spheroidal, it is exceedingly difficult to make the groove of equal depth all round. The shallower jaarts must be especially cut down to the level of the deeper i)arts, by bearing pressure upon the bone at the points where the division has been less complete. As the inner table is penetrated, increased caution must be exercised, and still more care is needed when once the groove has been ex- tended right through the skull. It must be remembered that the bone will probably l)e of unequal thickness even over the small area covered by the trephine. When the groove is of sufficient depth, the disc of bone may be removed by gently rocking the trephine to and fro while it is still in position, or by cautiously introducing an