CHAP. III.] 439 URETHROTOMY. size of No. 25 (French) can readily be passed. Tiie hannor- rliage is, as a rule, very slight. Finally, a full-sized silver catheter is passed and the bladder emptied. During the whole operation, the patient must be warmly wrapped lip in blankets, and the same precaution observed after- wards. It is best not to leave a catheter in the urethra, and to allow the parts to rest for two or tliree days before again passing a Lister’s sound of large calibre or a flexible bougie. Subsequently the regular introduction of the latter must be insisted on to prevent recurrence of the stricture. E.XTKBXAL UHETHROTOMY. 1. Syiiic’s Operation.—Instruments Required.— Syme’s staff. (This instrument has a narrow terminal part, which is jiassed through tlie stricture. Where this part joins the rest of the staff there is a “shoulder,” which rests against the distal surface of the stricture. The narrow segment is grooved, and the groove is continued on to the shoulder.) Manacles or Clover’s crutch ; scalpel; probe; director; Teale’s jirobe gorget; perineal tube; catheter. The Operation.—The patient is placed in lithotomy position, and the staff is introduced with the cai-e already advised in that operation. An incision is made precisely in the median line of the perineum, and the knife is so dii-ected that its point shall hit the shoulder of the instru- ment. The surgeon must convince himself'that this portion of the staff is laid bare. He then engages the point of the knife in the groove of the staff, and, keeping most carefully to the groove, tlirusts the knife towards the neck of the bladder until he has divided the whole of the stricture. A director or probe, or Teale’s probe gorget, is now introduced along the convexity of the staff into the bladder, and the stall is removed. A gum-elastic catheter may then be passed into the bladder through the penis, and be guided into position by the director or probe gorget, aided by the finger inserted in the wound.' Should the irritability of the bladder prevent ‘the