125 CHAP. IX.] AMPUTATIONS. shoulders are raised upon a hard cushion. The arm is by the side or a little separated from it. The surgeon stands to the outer side of the limb, facing the patient. Two assistants are placed, one on each side of the surgeon. A third assistant stands on the other side of the body and facing the operator. The clavicular incision is now made with a stout scaliDel. The incision is horizontal, is made along the surface of the bone, commences internally at the outer border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and ends e.xternally just beyond the acromio clavicular articulation. The knife divides everything down to the bone. At this stage the sometimes large connecting vein which may pass between the external jugular and cephalic veins may be sevex’ed. The periosteum of the clavicle is divided along the hori- zontal line corresponding to the original Avound, and is also divided vertically or circularly at the inner extremity of the wound. The inner third of the clavicle is not disturbed in any way. By means of a small rugine or periosteal elevator curved on the Hat, the periosteum is separated from the superficial part of the middle portion of the bone, which is now Avell exposed. During the use of the elevator an assistant should steady the collar-bone, and render it as prominent as possible. A lai’ge blunt hook may now be very carefully passed round the inner end of the exposed clavicle, and Avhile an assistant draws the bone forward and steadies it by means of this hook, the surgeon saws it through at about the junction of the middle Avith the inner third. The section is accomplished by means of a keyhole-saAv or by a fine chain-saw, the former being the more convenient. The blunt hook serves to guide the saAv and in some Avay to protect the deeper parts. During the sawing the middle of the clavicle should be grasped and further fixed by means of lion forceps. The bone is the more conve- niently divided (Avith the hand-saw) if the blade be directed