31 LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. CHAP. III.] angle of the wound, and below it the hypoglossal nerve should be made evident. The surgeon now seeks with the finger for the tip of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and when this is discovered all the “ points ” leading to the artery are in evidence (Fig. 13). The artery should now be exposed opposite to the level of the tip of the great cornu, and between the origins of the superior thyroid and lingual arteries. In this part of the operation care must be taken to avoid the facial and superior thyroid veins. Lymphatic glands may lie in front of the vessel. The artery having been cleared, the needle is passed from without inwards. In effecting this, great care must be taken to avoid the superior laryngeid nerve, which courses behind the artery in this situation. Comment.—This operation is somewhat difficult, on account of the complicated relations of the artery, and the fact that the branches are not always readily identified. The artery has been ligatured above the digastric ■, but the procedure is still more difficult, and is attended with several special risks. THE LINGUAL ARTERV. The artery may be secured in either the first or the second part of its course. In the former situation a liga- ture is but very rarely applied, the place of election being in the second segmemt of the vessel as it lies beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, and occupies the digastric triangle. L.i^atiirc of Ike Artery at the “ Place of Election,” i.e. beneath the hyo-glossus muscle. Fosji,tion.—The patient lies close to the edge of the table, with the shoulders raised, with the arm of the affected side passed behind the back, and with the face turned to the opposite side. An assislant must keep the chin drawn well upwards and the lower jaw fixed. The surgeon stands upon the side to be operated upon. The chief assistant is placed opposite to him, and leans over the patient’s body. A second assistant stands by the surgeon’s side. His chief duty is to hold the hook which commands the digastric tendon. The patient must be well amesthetised