CHAP. X.] QASTROSTOMy. 307 * lunar line, in which case some fibres of the rectus are exposed. The peritoneum is reached, and is divided to the full length of the original wound. O O 2. fth\|>o«!»iiro of’ flio Stoiiiarli.—Retractors are introduced into the wound, and search is made for the stomach. The liver will come into view, and below the margin of that organ the stomach may at once be detected. It is recognised by the smoothness and absolute opacity of its surface, by its faint pink colour, and by the thickness and stifl'ness of its wall, as demonstrated by pinching up a fold between the thumb and finger. To make the identifica- tion moi’e certain, the relations of the viscus to adjacent structures, and especially to the liver, should be made out. The colon has been mistaken for the stomach, and has been opened under the influence of that error. The stomach is usually contracted, and lies high up, under cover of the left lobe of the liver. In such case, the omentum or the transverse colon commonly presents. By means of a gauze sponge held in long pressure foi'ceps, the colon may be thrust downwards into the abdomen, and the stomach thus brought into view ; or the surgeon may draw the colon downwards with his fingers. The omentum is more conveniently pushed away by means of the sponge, to the surface of which it readily attaches itself. In any case of doubt the siirgeon should follow the under-surface of the liver with his finger as far as the portal fissure. Thence he is conducted to the stomach by the gastro-hepatic omentum. The stomach should be di'awn to the wound, and the spot at which to open it must be determined upon. This spot should be as near to the lesser curvature as possible, and at a part free from large veins. It is most im- portant, however, that the new opening should be so placed as to avoid any ti’action upon the stomach. As soon as the situation of the “stoma” has been deter- mined upon, the stomach wall may be lightly seized at the centre of the selected area by means of pressure forceps. By means of these forceps an elongated pouch of the organ