SURGICAL OPERATIONS. [part V. ■2Gf) be taken just at the time when the tendon gives wa}', the integuments covering it may be divided by the suddenly- liberated knife. llanisti'iiiv: Tt'iidoiis.—These tendons are most con- veniently severed just above the line of the knee-joint, and on a level with the most prominent part of the condyles of the femur. Bicejis.—The patient .should lie as far as possible upon the face, so that the popliteal space may be well exposed. The surgeon may stand upon the inner side of the limb in the case of either the right or the left tendon. If he place himself to the outer side of the extremity, he will face the })atient when dealing with the left leg, and have his back to the patient when dealing with the right. The leg is steadied by an assistant. With a sharp- pointed tenotome a puncture is made directly over the tendon, and the instrument is passed vertically downwards on the inner side of the tendon, and is withdrawn when it has passed a little way beyond it. The blunt point is now introduced, and, following the same line, is passed vertically between the tendon and the nerve. When it has just ]>assed beyond the tenflon the blade is turned outwards, the handle brought as nearly horizontal as possible, and the point passed beneath the biceps until it may be felt upon the outer side. Tlie tendon is then divided by cutting towards the skin, which is guarded with the left forefinger in the usual way. During the introduction of the tenotomes and the cutting of the tendon the biceps should kept upon the stretch. As the knife is withdrawn the limb should be flexed. If care be not taken, the knife may slip through the skin when the tendon gives with a snap. In the conditions for which this operation is usuall}^ pei-formed the contracted biceps tendon is drawn away from the nerve, and a wider interval than the normal separates the two structures. The safest plan, however, unless the nerve can be plainly felt through the skin, is to make a small incision, .so as clearly to expose both nerve and