CHAP. IX.] REMOVAL OF APPENDIX. 3(51 resistiiiff adhesions should be well defined and then cut with scissors or a scalpel. In all these preliminary mea- sures the operator should observe the rule to keep clo.se to the appendix, and, above all, seek for its tip. The free end of the appendix is the key of the position when ad- hesions are very troublesome. When once that is found, the difficulties are nearly over. In many cases of difficulty I have divided the undis- turbed peritoneum, of the right iliac fossa well to the outer side of the disturbed area, and by working along in the retroperitoneal tissue have reached the adherent bowel, and have readily detached it, stripping off the peritoneum with it. The operator should never drag upon adherent bowel, especially upon adherent ileum. The only structure upon which considerable traction may safely be made is the appendix. This organ is apt to be much contoi’ted, and is often bent acutely upon itself. The most difficult adhesions are met with when the appendix is adherent to the floor of the pelvis, and is possibly in communication with the rectum. A good electric light, a full I’etraction of the margins of the wound, a very free incision, and the Tren- delenburg position are necessary in these very troublesome cases. In dealing with such instances, the rule should always be observed to keep throughout v'ery close to the appendix, which must be followed as a guide. In detaching an adherent appendix an abscess cavity may be discovered. It will probably communicate with the bowel. It should be well sponged out, its walls scrajied away, and its cavity lightly dusted with a little iodoform. In certain of these cases, but not in all, a gauze drain will be needed. A considerable amount of pale yellow, custard- like material may be found about an adherent appendix. It should be carefully .scraped away, but no drain will in such instances be required. Caseous glands, if readily isolated, should be removed whenever possible. Ti’entiiipiit of th<“ Podiclo.—As the appendix is being isolated, care should be taken to demonstrate its pedicle. The pedicle repre.sents the mesoappendix, or at M*