422 [part IX. SURGICAL OPERATIONS. In young children and adults in whom the inguinal canal has not been stretched by the frequent descent of a hernia—in other words, those in whom the parts ai’e normal but for the presence of a congenital pouch of peritoneum— it is only necessary to deal with the sac in the manner described. But in most cases where the radical cure is required it is advisable that the canal should be narrowed, and con- siderable changes in the methods of doing this have been made during the last ten or fifteen years. Formerly narrowing sutures were placed in the external ring alone, or with the addition of one or more which drew the con- joined tendon over towards the external oblique in front of and above the cord. To place these stitches correctly without exposing the deep muscles by slitting up the external oblique is a difficult matter, and the external ring is not really at fault in the production of a hernia; it is, moreover, easy to narrow this opening too much with injurious effects upon the circulation through the cord. Of the three methods described, one includes the obliteration of the inguinal canal, the other two its narrowing at the upper end. It is both unnecessary and impossible to describe the host of modifications to which various surgeons’ names have been attached. 1. Method of Stituring the Conjoined Muscles to Pou- part’s Ligament with Replacement of the Cord in the Inguinal Canal.—The aponeurosis of the external oblique is divided parallel to and above Poupart’s ligament from the external ring to a point just aliove the internal ring. The cord is thus exposed surrounded by the cremasteric fibres, and the lower edge of the internal oblique muscle is clearly defined as it ai’ches over the cord. The latter is then lifted mainly by blunt dissection from its bed, and at the same time the inner surface of the external oblique is defined and cleared both upwards and downwards, so that the strong band which forms Poupart’s ligament is thoroughly exposed. The cremasteric layer is then opened so that the sac can be isolated and dealt with by one of the methods already described. Any surrounding fat may