AMPUTATIONS. 107 CHAP. XIV.] along these two short lateral incisions with a stout scalpel until the middle of the Hap is entirely free, nnd the thuml) and forefinger can be made to meet between the deep muscles and the bones. The.se muscles and the vessels they carry with them are finally divided at their lower ])arts by a vigorous transverse cut. To effect this, the amputating- knife is introduced between the separated muscles and the bones, and is made to cut from within outwards. The posterior flap is now' quite free below, and the soft parts above are cleared away from the tibia and fibula and inter- vening membrane until the level of the saw-cut is reached. (4) The anterior flap is made by passing the knife in a ciu’ved manner across the face of the limb. The incision at first involves the skin only. When retraction has taken place, the muscles are cleanly divided down to the bones. These muscles are then dissected np as far as the level of tlie future saw-cut, the interosseous membrane being thus bared in front as well as behind. (5) Retractors having been applied, and the interosseous membrane divided transversely, the bones are sawn through. The periosteum may be separated from the lower end of the tibia. The prominent projection of the anterior border of tbo tibia should be removed with the saw in the manner de- scribed on page 171. {See Fig. 55.) The posterior tibial nerve is dissected out and removed. Ihemorrhnge.—The anterior tibial artery is divided at the free end of the anteiior flap, the po.sterior tibial and jieroneal vessels at the free margin of the posterior Hap. The position of the.se vessels has been already indicated. C.—AMPUTATION AT Tllli “PLACE OF F.LECTION.” The term “place of election ’’refers to the spot at which the bones are divided. This yioint is about a hand’.s- breadth below the knee-joint, and is about, or a little above, the great nutrient foramen of the tibia. The tibia is here still of good size, the cancellous tissue is considerable, but the medullary canal has commenced.