[I’AKT III. no SURGICAL OPERATWLIS. as to divide the interosseous ligaments ; the skin is at the same time retracted, so as to expose the part. To reach the articulation more conveniently, a transverse cut may be made at the end of the vertical incision. (Fig. 31, e.) The operator now carries the knife forward through the tissues of the web on either side of the finger, and, the digit being fully extended, the palmar incision is carried down to the flexor tendons. The assistant then holds the finger in the position of the extremest extension, while the surgeon lays bare the under-surface of the flexor tendons, which he ultimately divides oppo.site the neck of the shaft. While the finger is still extended to the utmost, the operator exposes the palmar surface of the bone as Avell as is possible and as far back as is possible. The ligaments of the joint having been divided, the finger is turned back upon the dorsum of the hand, and the last structures divided are such resisting palmar structures as still remain, together wiih the tendon of the extensor carpi radialis brevior. The digital arteries are divided in the tissues of the web. The synovial sheath of the flexor tendons may be closed with fine catgut sutures, if considered desirable. In the case of the index fiixger the vertical incision should be carried along the dorsum of the bone rather than along its radial side, as sometimes advised. A transverse cut should be made over the trapezoid at the end of this incision. In removing the little finger with its metacarpal bone, the dorsal incision should be placed rather towards the inner side of the shaft of the bone, and from its extremity a short transverse cut may be made towards the ulnar margin of the hand (Fig. 31, f). 3. Disarticulation oftlic TUuiiib to|tetlicr Avith its metacarpal Bone.—In this operation especial care must be taken not to wound the radial artery as it passes close to the base of the metacarpal bone to reach the palm, and not to open the joint between the metacarpal of the index and the trapezoid.