CHAP, in.] 301 EXCISION OF TONGUE. be done by means of a broad retractor. The external flap is now carefully dissected back and held by a suture re- tractor. The bifurcation of the carotid artery, and the internal jugular vein lying behind and somewhat over- lapping the carotid, ai’e exposed, and all lymphatic glands that can be discovered in this region are cautiously dissected out (see Fig. 88). This is the most tedious part of the operation, but at the same time the most important. The submaxillary gland being well raised, the tendon of the digastric muscle is drawn downwards with a blunt hook. The posterior edge of the mylo-hyoid is now deflned, and the hypoglossal nerve with the ranine vein are seen passing beneath it. With blunt dissection the nerve and vein ai’e displaced slightly upwai’ds, particular care being taken not to wound the vein. In the small triangle formed by the nerve, the posterior belly of the digastric, and the posterior border of the mylo-hyoid, the surgeon now incises the hyo-glossus fibres which form its floor. This is done cautiously, the muscle fibres being fixed by fine-toothed forceps. It is easy to go too deeply and wound the lingual artery, or perhaps to miss it and work in too deep a plane. As a rule, provided that the points mentioned are carefully observed, the artery is found with ease. An aneurysm needle is passed from below round the artery, and the latter securely tied. The submaxillary gland is then replaced, all bleeding points are secured by catgut ligatui-es, and the wound is quickly sewn up with silkworm gut. It is usually best to leave a small drainage-tube in the lower angle of the wound. Supposing that the epithelioma is wholly marginal, and there is no need to remove more than half of the tongue, the operator now proceeds to deal with the latter, after securing an aseptic dressing on the neck wound. In some cases, however, it will not be safe to limit the excision to one half the tongue. The patienFs head is. then turned to the opposite side, and the other lingual secured. A temporary dressing has been secured around the neck, the in.struments previously required are put aside, and the anesthetist arranges to give chloroform through Junker’s