SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 410 [PAET IX. If the bowel, when exposed, be in what may be termed a doubtful condition, it had better be reduced into the abdomen. It is in a moi’e favoui able position for recovery within the peritoneal cavity than within the inflamed sac. Before replacement, the jjarts concerned should be well washed with an antiseptic solution. Such a coil of bowel seldom travels far from the hernial ring. The sac should be left open, and a drainage-tube of large size be intro- duced. If the gut at a later period gives way, it will do so gradually; and as adhesions are rapidly formed, the intestinal contents will escape along the course of the open sac. Whatever theoretical objections may exist to this procedure, practice has shown that it may be safely carried out, assuming that it applies to bowel which is not actually gangrenous, but in a condition which may be termed doubt- ful. It is remarkable to what an extent these loops of “ doubtful ” intestine recover. If the bowel, when exposed, be found to be gangi’enous, two courses are open to the operator :— (1) The stricture may be divided, and the gangrenous bowel resected. In carrying out the resection, either an artificial anus may be established, which can be closed by a subsequent operation, or the divided ends of the gut may be at once united and returned into the abdomen. The union may be effected by means of a double row of sutui’es, or by Murphy’s button ; by preference the former, if the patient be in a condition to bear the lengthy operation. (2) The sac having been well opened up and well Avashed out with an antiseptic solution, the bowel is left in after having been incised. The parts are well dusted with iodoform, and means are taken to provide the most efficient drainage. Sevei’al surgeons of eminence advise that in these cases the stricture should be divided, and that the gut should be left in situ, having been first secured by means of two or three silk stitches passed through the serous and muscular coats, and then fastened to the skin. The objection to this plan is that the ab- dominal cavity is opened up and exposed to infection from