Manuals for Students and Practitioners of Medicine {contd.). 4 Surgical Diseases of Children. By Edmund Owen, M.B., F.R.C.S., Consulting Surgeon to the Hospital for Sick Children, Great Ormond Street; Surgeon to St. Mary’s Hospital, &c. &c. With 5 Chromo Plates and 120 Engravings, yis. " Mr. Owen’s volume will rank as an invaluable risu7ni of the subject on which it treats.”—A/erftco/ Press and Circular. Diseases of the Tongue. By h. t. Butim, F.R.C.S., D.C.L., Consulting Surgeon and Lecturer on Clinical Surgery to St. Bartholomew's Hospital, and Walter G. Spencer, M.S., M.B. Lond,, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to Westminster Hospital, &c. With Chromo Plates and Engravings. New and Revised Edition. Hla. The Rectum and Anus, Their Dis= eases and Treatment. By sir cuaries b. Ball, Hon. M.Ch. Dublin, F.R.C.S.I., &c.. Surgeon and Clinical Teacher at Sir P. Dun’s Hospital, and Regius Professor of Surgery, University of Dublin. With Chromo Plates and 61 Engravings. 9a. " As a full, clear, and trustworthy description of the diseases which It deals with, it is certainly second to none ii the lan^age. The author is evidently well read in the literature of the subject, and has nowhere failed to describe what Is best up to date. The model of what such a work should be7**Sristol MedicO'Chirurgical youmaL Diseases of the Breast. By Tnomas Bryant, F.R.C.S.i &c., Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Surge^ at, Guy's Hospital. With 8 Chxomo Plates and numerous Engravings. 9Se “Mr. Br3rant is so well known, both as an author and a surgeon, that we are absolved Irom the necessity of speaking fully or critically of bis work."—LanctU Syphilis. By Jonathan Hutchinson, F.R.S., F.R.C.S., Consulting Surgeon to the London Hospital and to the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital, With 8 Chromo Plates. Seventh Thousand. 9a. The student, no matter what may be bis age, will find In this compact treatise a valuable presentation ol a vastly Important subject. We know of no better or more comprehensive treatise on syphilis.”—Medical News. Philadelphia. Insanity and Allied Neuroses. By George H. Savage, M.D., Lecturer on Mental Diseases ^ Guy’s Hospital, &c. With 19 Illustrations. Eighth TJwusand, 9s, ** Dr. Savage's grouping of insanity is practical and convenient, and the observations on each group are acute, e,\tensive, and well arranged."—7*/tf Lancet, Clinical Methods: A Guide to the Practical Study of Medicine. By Robert Hutchisou, M.D., F.R.C.P., .Assistant Physician to the London Hospital, &c., and Harry Rainy, M.A., F.R.C.F. Ed., F.R.S.E., formerly University Tutor in Clinical Medicine, Royal Infomary, Edinburgh. With 8 Coloured Plates and upwards of 150 Illustrations. New and Enlarsed Edition, 10a. (id.