[part VIII. SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 354 It is well also that the opening into the colon should be, at first at least, quite small. INGUINAL COLOTO.MY. Ihis operation lias been rendered easier and more simple of late years, and the introduction of Paul’s tubes has made immediate opening of the bowel a safe proceeding. Inguinal colotomy has almost entirely supplanted the lumbar operation, and is the operation to be chosen whenever the large intestine i-equires to be opened, provided that the obstruction is below the upper part of the sigmoid flexure. Instriiiiieiits required. — Scalpels and blunt- pointed bistoury ; scissors j fine-pointed forceps; several Wells’s forceps; blunt hooks ; retractors; straight and curved u'mdles; needle holders ; silk sutures, etc. Sometimes a wooden, ivory, or glass rod is emjiloyed for fixing the intestinal loop outside the wound. A strip of gauze will serve the same purpose. Tlie Operation.- The chief points to be remembered are : (1) To make as short an incision through the muscular wall of the abdomen as possible; (2) to open the highest part of the sigmoid flexure that can be drawn into the wound without undue tension ; (3) to ensure an eflicient spur being made out of the posterior wall of intestine. By these means fmees are prevented from passing on into the rectum, prolapse of the intestinal wall is to a great extent avoided, and a certain amount of control over the artificial anus is obtained. The exact position of the wound is not of great im- portance. A convenient guide is a line drawn between the umbilicus and the anterior superior spine on the left side ; at a distance from the latter point of about one and a half inches a wound rather more than.two inches long is made, crossing this line downwards and inwards. Or the incision may be made parallel to the outer third of Pouparb’s ligament, and from half to one inch above it. The external oblique aponeurosis being divided to the extent of two inches, the internal oblique and the trans-