42f) CHAP. H.] RADICAL CURL OF HERNIA. of an inch nearer the niifldle line, ft is now passed through the external oblique the same distance from the original point of entrance. 'J'lius tlie so-called mattress suture is completed ; the needle is released, atid the two ends of the suture are held in a pressure forceps until ready for tying. A second and a third loop of suture are then intj'oduced in the sjune way, all of them passing in front of the coj'd, which need not b<; raised from its normal position in the canal. Two points must be attended to—the ilio inguinal nerve must not be included in any of the sutures (as it is very apt to be), and the suture material must be jferfectly aseptic and not too thick. The sutures are now tied and the lower edge of the muscles is thus bnjught down in front of the cord. It only remains to sew up the divided external oblique, A modification of this method, especially suitable for inguinal hernia in women, consists in passijig a series of inbuTupted tendon or silk sutures tlirough the lower portion of the external oblique, then through the conjoined muscles from within outwards, and finally through the upjier part of the external oblique. These sutures should be placed very near to each other, and as the external ring is ap- proJJLched the external oblique only should be included. ft is presumed that aseptic healing occurs. Under these circumstances the buried sutun^s may be relied on to last long enough for all purpose.s, whether kangaroo tendon or silk has been used. 3. Comjdfda OhHlaratioit of the Jvxjuinal Canal.—The coi'd being freed from the internal ring down to the os pubis, and the sac having been dealt with, the cord is held forward by Idunt hooks, and a series of sutures is pas.sed through the edges of tlie exteiiial oblique, the internal oblique, and the transversalis on the one side, and the lower part of the external oblique on the other side (Fig 1 lb). The lowest sutures will pass only through the former pillars of the ring. Itoom must be left at the upper end for the cord, which is now placed on the outer surface of the external oblique. If necessary, one or two stitches may be passed above the new