[part r. SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 50 upwards with finger or small sponge held in forceps, and to contiune with the stages of the operation. The artery should be secured at least one inch and a quarter above Poupart’s ligament, in order that the ligature may be well clear of the large branches given oft' close to the ligament, and a space be allowed for the forma- tion of the necessary clot. The deep epigastinc artery has been accidentally cut during the operation. (2) Abernethy's Method.—The incision is four inches in length, and is commenced one inch and a half above and to the inner side of the anterior superior iliac spine, and is carried down in the direction of the external iliac artery, to a point half an inch above Pou[>art’s ligament. The muscles are divided in order, the peritoneum exposed and pushed back in the manner already described. Comment and Comparison of the Two Operations.—The comments made upon the previous operation apply, with obvious modifications, to the present method. Ahernethy’s operation enables the artery to" be ligatured higher up, and the incision is away from the centre of the groin. This is a matter of consequence in dealing with a case of aneurysm involving the upper part of the femoral artery, and possibly encroaching upon Poupart’s ligament. The wound, moreover, is removed from the abdominal rings, and does not concern the deep epigastric artery. Cooper’s operation, howevei’, must be regarded as the better of the two, and it claims that position u[)on the fol- lowing grounds :—The operation is easier to perform. The peritoneum is dealt with at a spot where it is but little ad- herent. It is, in consequence, more readily displaced, and is le.ss exposed to damage. There is infinitely less division of the muscular struc- tures of the abdominal parietes, the wound is simpler, and the disposition to ventral hernia is less. The artery is exposed at a great depth in Abernethy’s opei’ation, and the wound is so placed that the passage of the aneurysm needle is attended with great difficulty, and with unusual risk of wounding the vein.