[fart VIII. SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 372 mucous membiane is first of all brought together by means of a continuous suture. This is best introduced by a small fully-curved needle, held in a needle-holder. The sutures must be well secured at each end, and must be tightly drawn throughout. The laxity of the gastric mucous mem- brane renders the application of this suture an easy matter. The outer part of the gastric wound is closed by many points of Lembert’s sutures. These are of fine silk, are intro- duced by means of an ordinary milliner’s needle or a circular needle, and include both the serous and the muscular coats. The details of the suture have been dealt with in the section on Enterroraphy (page 327). Any of the methods employed for suturing the intestine may be adapted to the stomach. It is desirable, however, in any case that a special line of suture should be employed to unite the edges of the mucous membrane. For the outer row there is nothing better than the interrupted Lerabert suture. The parts having been well deansed, the gauze is re- moved, and also the guiding loops of silkworm-gut from the stomach wall. The parietal incision is closed in the usual way. Ilf. —PYLORO-PLASTV. By this term is. understood a plastic operation, for the relief of fibrous stricture of the pylorus, in which no part of the intestinal wall is excised. It may be equally well carried out on any part of the intestine, but only when the stricture is ring-like, and does not involve much of the length of the gut. It is quite unsuited to cases of malignant disease. Its principle is simple. The narrowed part having been well defined, the stomach is opened to one side of the stricture, and a broad director (the old-fashioned hernia director is best) is passed through ; on this the narrowed wall is comjiletely divided into healthy tissue on the other side of the stricture. The longitudinal wound is then converted into a transverse one, by means of traction made with two hooks placed at the centre of either border.