GO [part I. SURGICAL OPERATIONS. :ind is divided to the extent of one inch and a half. Tlie artery is followed down from the bifurcation of the common iliac. The vein will appear to be about tlu’ee times the size of the artery, and the separation of the two is a matter of some delicacy. The vein indeed presents the chief dilli- culty in the operation. Care should be taken that theui'eter is not damaged nor accidentally included in the ligature. The many sympathetic nerve fibres which follow the artery may be avoided if the coat of the vessel be well exposed. A good light, several broad retractors or spatulse, long dissecting forceps, and a variety of aneurysm needles are required. The operation should be performed with the care which is essential in every abdominal section. Comvient.—The cidvantages of this method are obvious. The vessel is easily and fully exposed, and the needle can be passed without risk to the vein or the ureter. The operation is simple, and involves but little time. Its dangers ai’e, comparatively .'^peaking, very few. The ligature can be applied accui'ately at the .spot determined upon. The condition of the artery and of the surrounding parts can be made out, and a diagnosis confirmed or modified. GLUTEAL ARTERY. Lhie of the Artery.—If a line be dra^vn from the posterior superior iliac spine to the top of the great trochanter, when the thigh is rotated in, a point at the junction of the upper with the middle third of that line will coiTespond to the point at which this branch of the internal iliac artery emerges from the sciatic notch. Another landmark is the centre of a line drawn between the tip of the coccyx and *the highest point of the iliac crest. The incision may be made at right angles to this line. Operation.—The patient is rolled nearly over on to the face ; the limb is allowed to hang over the edge of the table ; the thigh is rotated in. The surgeon stands upon the side to be dealt with. ' An incision five inches in length is made along the line