CASTRATION. 449 CUAl’. 1X1.] clamp fur the purpose is a Spencer Wells’s large pressure forceps. The assistant holds the clamp, and the surgeon, grasping the testicle, divides the cord with the knife about three-quarters of an inch below the clamp. The vessels of the cord can now be separately secured. Three arteries must be ligatured—the artery to the vas deferens, the cremasteric, and the spermatic. The deferential artery is found close to the vas. With it are a few veins (the posterior set. Fig. 116). The cremasteric artery lies towards the outer part of the cord and nearer its surface. The spermatic artery is in front of the vas, and is surrounded by the veins of the pampiniform plexus. It is impossible to distinguish the arteries from the veins. The mouths of the latter vessels gape when grasped by the clamp; they are thereby rendered obvious, and are readily secured. Both veins and arteries are picked up with artery forcej5S, and secured with catgut. The two sets of veins should be tied separately. Three or four ligatures may be required, but very seldom more. These ligatures should certainly be of catgut and not of silk, for fear of a troublesome sinus resulting. They should be knotted very securely before the clamp is relaxed, and should be left long until it is seen that all the vessels have been well tied. Any bleeding points in the sci’otal incision must be secured. The following vessels are divided :—superior and inferior external pubic, superficial perineal, and the artery to the scrotal septum. As a rule, none of these needs a ligature. In applying the sutures, either straight or curved needles may be used, threaded with fine silkworm gut or catgut. In order to obtain an even line of union the edges of the incision should be stretched between two blunt hooks, inserted at the extremities of the wound and held by the assistant. This will prevent the in-turning of the edges of the incision, due to the contraction of the dartos, and will allow of accurate ad|ustment of the parts. It is well to introduce all the sutures before tying the first one. A drainage tube one inch and a half long may l)e secured l)y means of the last suture. i>