398 [part VIII. SURGICAL OPERATIONS. this bag that the whole operation is carried out, tlie peritoneum being freely separated, so as to give plenty of room. The operation is thus carried out within a species of coffer dam. If tlie forceps be properly adjusted, the operation is extraperitoneal: The general peritoneal cavity is shut off. If the kidney contains an abscess and that abscess bursts during its removal, it bursts into the coffer dam, and is quite isolated. Any bleeding also is limited by the walls of the coffer dam, and must remain extra- peritoneal. I have never found any difficulty in main- taining this coffer dam intact during the whole of the operation. It has the advantage also of preventing any coil of small intestine from appearing in the operation area. c. As soon as the coffer dam has been made secure, the kidney is exposed, and is well and thoroughly isolated all round. This separation is to a great extent effected by the fingers, which keep throughout very close to the capsule of the gland. Now and then the scissors are needed to divide resisting bands, and sometimes the scalpel is required. The most difficult part of the kidney to free is the upper end, and that should be dealt with last. Care must be taken to leave the suprarenal body behind. When the kidney is very adherent, this process of separation is very tedious. Free use of the scissors may be demanded. The chief rule is to keep always close to the kidney, and to be careful of the vessels when the hilum is reached. There is no objection to the leaving of parts of the capsule behind, but it should be avoided whenever possible. D. When the kidney has been well and entirely freed, the next step is to free the pedicle. This must be done by pushing the peritoneum towards the median line. The pedicle must be isolated on all sides, in front, behind, above, and below. Some dissection will be needed to make this separation complete. The next strp in the operation is the isolation of the component parts of the pedicle. This is done when the kidney has been drawn well outside the abdominal wound. The kidney is dragged upon and the pedicle displayed from all sides. The isolation of the ureter and chief vessels is effected by dissection with scalpel