CHAP. XIV.] AMPUTATIONS. 169 second assistant stands upon the opposite side of the limb to the surgeon, wlioin he faces. Operation.—The external flap is U-shaped. Its length is equal to that of the diameter of the limb at the level of the future saw-line—i.e. is equivalent to one-third of the circumference of the leg at the same level (Fig. 54, b). The anterior limb of the U is commenced opposite to the saw-line, and in passing down the leg runs parallel with and just to the inner side of the anterior border of the tibia. The posterior limb of the U follows a line on the back of the calf diametrically opposite to the anterior limb. The posterior incision ends, however, above, at a point about H inches below the commencement of the anterior limb of the U. (1) The operation is commenced by marking out the external flap by a., skin incision. In the case of both the right and the left leg, the knee should be flexed and the limb turned upon its inner side— i.e. so turned that its outer aspect is well exposed to the surgeon. The position of the operator while making the skin incisions has been alluded to. On the right side the incision may be commenced in front, and may be completed in one sweep, the antei’ior wound being thus made from above downwards and the posterior from below upwards. In the case of the loft limb, both of the vertical incisions can be more conveniently made by cutting from above down- wards, and can be subsequently joined by the terminal curved incision. (2) The next step in the operation is to free the skin along the whole length of the incision, so that it may retract. The integuments are merely freed, not dissected up. (3) The limb being turned outwards, the knife is passed across the inner side of the leg, from the upper end of the posterior inci.sion to a point on the anterior cut about H inch below its commencement (Fig. 54, b). This in- .cision is slightly curved, and involves the skin only. The integuments are lightly freed along the line of the incision. (4) The limb being again turned with its inner surface G*