[part X 440 SURGICAL OPERATIONS. retention of a catheter, a tube should be passed into the bladder from the perineum, and should be retained in position by tapes. Syme’s curved perineal catheter may be employed for this ])urpose, or a portion of a gum-elastic catheter be made use of. W bitehead’s perineal tube, with sliding adjustable shield, is a useful instrument. As soon as possible, however, a catheter should be passed by the meatus, and the perineal wound allowed to close. 2. WIiccllioiiscN Opci'alioii.—Instruments Re- quired.—Manacles or Clover’s crutch; Wheel house’s hooked staff ; two pairs of fine-nibbed forceps ; scalpels; catheter’s; probe; probe-pointed director; Teale’s probe gorget; curved needle; needle-holder; artery and pressure forceps ; sponges in holders. The Operation.—The patient is placed in lithotomy jDOsition. “ The staff is to be introduced with the groove looking towards tlie surface, and brought gently into con- tact with the stricture. It should not be pressed much against the stricture, for fear of tearing the tissues of the urethra and causing it to leave the canal, which would mar the whole after-proceedings, which depend upon the urethra being opened a quarter of an inch in front of the stricture. AVhilst an assistant holds the staff in this posi- tion an incision is made into the perineum, extending from opposite the point of reflection of the superficial perineal fascia to the outer edge of the sphincter ani. The tissues of the perineum are to be steadily divided until the urethra is reached. This is now to he opened in the groove of the staff, not upon its point, so as certainly to secure a quarter of an inch of healthy tube immediately in front of the stricture. As soon as the urethra is opened, and the groove in the staff fully exposed, the edges of the healthy urethra are to be seized on each side with straight-bladed nibbed forceps, and held apai’t. The staff is then gently withdrawn until the button-point appears in the wound.” It is then turned round, so that the point hooks on to the front edge of the urethi’al wound, which is thus