G. Lindsay Johnson. 2 referring to its ophthalmoscopic appearances, he describes it and its surrounding ring as a transversely placed oval (queroval), and thus he figures it in his well-known text book1; but he remarks, with his characteristic love of accuracy, that this appearance is not in harmony with his anatomical observations.3 The appearance of the macula floor and ring appears to have first been definitely laid down by Richard Liebreich in Graefe's Archives for the year 1858.3 Since that time the description of the obliquely oval appearance of the macula ring has been repeated in words almost identical to those of Liebreich in every text-book on ophthalmology and physi- ology in which any description of it is given. In addition to this, I notice that it is invariably stated that this ring round the macula can never be seen by the direct examination, i. e., by the upright image,4 and that, if it could be seen, the magnification is so great .that only a portion could come into view at one time; moreover, it is repeatedly affirmed that this ring can only be seen in dark children, and it is maintained that dilatation of the pupil with atropine causes it at once to disappear.6 On consulting the various atlases of the eye I find the pictures of the macula ring all having the same oval shape and axial direction, but beyond this they have few points in common. Thus Galezowski figures the typical macula region in his atlas as an oval ring brick-red in color, with a red fovea centralis on an orange-red base.0 Schmidt-Rimpler draws it as a canary-yellow oval, with an orange-centre on a walnut-brown base.7 1 See colored plate opposite page 321, 2d edition, 1888. 2 Die Macula lutea anatomisch u. opthalmoscopisch, A. f. 0., xxi., 3, p. 17. ' Histologisch-ophthalmoscopische Notizen, A./. O., iv., 2, p. 301. 4 " Auffallend ist es, dass der Lichtring im aufrechten Bilde fehlt."—Schmidt- Rimpler: " Handbook," p. 231. 2d ed. See also A. f. O., xxi., 3, p. 27. Loring: Transactions of the American Ophthalmological Society, July, 1891, p. 29. Mauthner : " Lectures on the Opthalmoscope. 5 Panas : " Lecons sur les Retinites," 1878, and Giraud-Teulon : "La Vision et ses Anomalies," p. 355, ed. 1881. Schmidt-Rimpler : A. f. O., xxi., 3, p. 28, etc., etc. 6 " Traite Inconographique d'Ophthalmoscopie," pi. I, fig. 2. 1 " Augenheilkunde," p. 321, 3d edition, 1888.