G. Lindsay Johnson. 10 the direct method with the ophthalmoscope. The macula region appears quite homogeneous and free from vessels ex- cept at its margin, where they curl over and are lost to view. Frequently the vessels are seen to divide dichotomously just before reaching the macula. It takes some moments before the other eye, when experi- mented on after being closed, can perceive the vessels ; moreover, the macula does not appear red for some mo- ments, but its redness soon becomes markedly in contrast with the rest of the dull-brown ground. When examining the macula ring with the ophthalmo- scope, I invariably see the retinal vessels curling over the ring into the macula depression, exactly corresponding to what I see in Purkinje's experiment mentioned above. These vessels pass into the macula in children as well as in adults,1 and frequently divide dichotomously just over the ring, becoming rapidly so fine that they can no longer be traced any farther. I have only met with two cases in healthy eyes in which I could trace a retinal vessel up to the fovea itself. One was in a native boy from the Upper Congo (Fig. n), who had marvellously acute vision, and in whom I could trace two minute arterial twigs right up to the fovea centralis. The other was in a patient with a healthy fundus and normal refraction and vision. As the raised edge of the macula seen by Purkinje's method occurs just inside the point where the vessels divide dichotomously, and as it is just there that I see the ring with the ophthalmoscope, I have reason to believe that the ring corresponds to the extreme limit of the macula region. This view has been further confirmed by some experiments I have made, and which, when completed, I hope to be able to describe in a future number. III.— The ring is no doubt due to the cup-shaped dip of the macula. It has been generally recognized that the surface of the retina presents a depression at the macula, commen- cing at its circumference and increasing rapidly towards the fovea, where the dip is often very considerable; so much so, 1 See Leber's reply to Johannides, Graefe's A./. O., vol. xxvi., Abth. 2, p. 127.