Observations on the Macula Lutea. exceptions, be seen in persons under thirty-five years, and with diminishing frequency in older subjects. That the macula ring is invariably circular and probably corresponds to the extreme limit of the macula region. That the ring is undoubtedly due to the cup-shaped dip of the macula region; and that I observe three distinct forms of macula rings ; and I have also tried to account for these various appearances. I would now like to add some further conclusions which my observations and experiments have led me to consider probable. One reason why the ring is most marked in children (so much so, in fact, that it can frequently be observed with full illumination and by the indirect method) seems to be that in early age the circumference of the macula is formed by a rounded ridge which stands above the general level of the retina. I have been led to this conclusion by the ex- amination of the eye of a youth, which I excised for a deep corneal wound a few weeks ago, and in which I could dis- tinctly see the ridge with the naked eye immediately after excision, and before I placed the divided bulb in a preserving fluid. Inside this ridge the retina sloped more or less gradu- ally towards the fovea. An ophthalmoscopic examination of the remaining eye showed a reflex ring of the third form above described. I have reason to believe that as a person advances in years this ridge flattens down, but whether the general slope of the macula becomes actually less or not, I cannot say. One thing is certain—the shot-silk reflection of the retina is most conspicuous in childhood. It appears to become less and less with advancing years, and towards middle life it insensibly disappears, and with it the reflection of the macula ring. I must still point out that occasionally another ring inside of the macula may be observed, which seems to correspond to some further change of level in the floor of the macula between the edge of the macula region and the fovea cen- tralis (see Fig. i). Seeing the ring in almost every person, and being thereby able