3 Observations on the Macula Lutea. Panas and Mauthncr both describe it as a brilliantly silvered ring.1 Power speaks of it as " a soft whitish line," which he ascribes to the reflection of the rim of the mirror.3 Landolt describes it as " a bright oval line, sometimes glistening with a red floor and intensely red, almost black, centre, the dark point in the centre being hardly ever absent."' Helmholtz says : "The retina appears at the yellow spot much darker, of a grayish-yellow color, without any mixture of red,"4—a statement which Coecius says he cannot agree with. On the contrary, he says the floor of the macula is dim and of a much deeper red than the fundus generally ; in some instances it is even brown or deep gray.' Schirmer poetically compares the ring (or Heiligenschein, as he calls it) to the small, finely branched, sparkling ice-flowers on a frosted window-pane.6 Finally, Merkel7 describes it as a citron-yellow patch with a round black spot in its centre, which corresponds to the fovea centralis. By comparing the above description of the typical macula with its ring and centre, we find that no two writers agree as to the appearance and color. As in many points my observations have led me to con- clusions entirely different from those arrived at by the dis- tinguished ophthalmologists above mentioned, I have ven- tured, though not without some hesitation, to lay the results before the readers of these Archives. • The conclusions which I have arrived at are: I.— That when observed in a certain way the macula ring in its entire circumference can be seen in every person under thirty-five years of age, and frequently, though with diminish- ing frequency, over that age. The only cases in which I find an exception are in high myopes (z. e., over 7 D or 8 D), in very fair people in whom the pigment is entirely or largely absent, and in cases in which the pigment is irregularly dis- 1 " Lecons sur les Retinitis," 1878. * " Illustrations of the Principal Diseases of the Eye," p. 393. 3 " Examination of the Eyes," p. 202. 4 " Beschreibung eines Augenspiegels," p. 35. 5 Criticism on the above. • Ueber das oph. Bild der Macula Iutca, A. f. O., vol. x., Abth. 1, p. 140 1 Graefe-Saemisch " Handbuch," Bd. I., Th. 1, p. 34.