Observations on the Macula Lutea. 5 reaches the edge of the macula, when the whole ring instantly comes into view with great distinctness as soon as the illumination is sufficiently reduced. The cone of rays in undilated pupils can only be avoided by oblique observation by the direct method, which is to be preferred in every respect, and particularly because the magnification is not only greater than by the indirect, but, as Dr. Landolt first pointed out, it is invariably the same if certain conditions be observed.1 He demonstrated that, provided the mirror with its correcting lens be held at the anterior principal focus of the patient's eye, the amplification of the image is exactly 20 diameters.3 Now the anterior principal focus is situated 13.7 mm from the anterior surface of the cornea, a very convenient distance for observation. Moreover, if the correcting glass in the ophthalmoscope be at this dis- tance, the magnification is dependent on the refraction of the patient's eye; whereas, with the indirect method, the magnification varies between wide limits (2 and 7 diameters) according to the focal length of the lens, the refraction of the patient's eye, and the position of the lens employed. Lastly, it is especially important that the mirror used for the upright image should be of a suitable curvature to get the best result. With the indirect method it matters very little what focal length be used, owing to the interposed lens, but by the direct method it becomes a matter of consider- able moment. In order to clear up this point practically, I had a series of concave mirrors made of focal lengths varying from 1.5 to 10 inches. I then, by means of cob- bler's wax, stuck the mirror to be tested in its normal posi- tion in my ophthalmoscope, and made repeated trials with it, the wax holding sufficiently for observation but allowing of the mirrors being rapidly changed. In this way I found that the best average results at 14 mm distance were obtained with a mirror of 2\ in. solar focus ; mirrors of shorter focal 1 On the Enlargement of Ophthalmoscopic Images.—E. Landolt, Brit. Med. Joar., March I, 1880. 1 Of course the correcting lens must be at the anterior focus of both the observer's and the patient's eyes that this should be mathematically correct, but if the observer has normal refraction he can hold his eye as close as he likes to the ophthalmoscope without any practical error.