12 G. Lindsay Johnson. Many years ago, Loring made some interesting experi- ments to ascertain whether the reflex ring could be produced artificially.1 He made a small hole in a piece of smooth tinfoil (the " in thickness), which he squeezed over a disc of plain glass and carefully squeezed a second piece of foil over the first, thus making a uniformly smooth surface with a circular depression of less than the of an inch in depth.5 This, being placed in the plane of the posterior pole in an artificial eye, showed a glittering ring with the ophthalmoscope very similar to that seen in the human eye. I have made similar experiments myself both with goldbeater's-skin and with tinfoil, and obtained identical results with those of Loring, nor can I see how they could be otherwise. It therefore occurred to me that the retinal arteries might produce a reflex in the same way by slightly raising the level of the tissue above them. I therefore cut a hair from the head into short pieces and laid them on a cover-slip moistened with equal parts of egg albumen and glycerine. This I dried slightly over a flame and squeezed a piece of tinfoil over the top. The minute ridges thus pro- duced formed the best substitute I could make for the retinal arterioles. On measuring the height of the ridges I found them to vary between the t /0 0 of an inch and the -g-ijVir °f an mcn- I tnen placed it at the retinal plane of my artificial eye (Landolt's) and examined it with the ophthalmoscope. The ridges gave all the appearance of the glistening sheen which one observes playing over the arteries. So far the analogy appeared to hold good, but it fails to explain the reason why this shot-silk sheen disappears with age, unless it is that in later years the surface of the retina reflects less light.3 IV.—/ observe three forms of rings. Of these the most common is a bright scintillating reflex resembling shot-silk 1 Transactions of the American Ophthalmological Society, July, 1871, p. 77- s Dr. Loring does not say how he arrives at his figures, but I have repeated his experiments most carefully, and I find his figures are much too high. I never found the difference in level less than of an inch (°-°i25 mm), nor can I discover where tinfoil so thin as the of an inch (0.003 mm) is to be obtained. . . , 3 Brecht, A. f. 0., xxi., Abth. 2, p. I, describes a similar experiment to that of Loring, and gives a colored diagram of the ring he saw in the artificial eye.