8 G. Lindsay Johnson. the horizontal meridian, and consequently the circle appears horizontally oval. But the difference in curvature between the two meridians is obviously an insufficient explanation. The vast majority of persons possess a corneal astigmatism of less than 0.75 D, and the addition of a cylinder of this amount will only increase the apparent diameter of the ring by 0.14 mm, i. e., less than its thirty-fourth part, an increase quite imperceptible. Moreover, if the curvature of the cornea were the cause, observation with the direct method should show the ring as a vertical oval, which is very rarely if ever the case. The explanation will, I think, be found in the distortion produced by the lens and mirror. If the light be placed at the side of the patient's face, the slight ob- liquity of the condensing lens is quite sufficient to distort the circle into a horizontal oval. In order to test this I selected a patient who had an unusually distinct ring, normal refraction, and less than 0.25 D of astigmatism, and atro- pinized his eye in order to avoid all error due to accommo- dation. On placing the light at the side of his face, when examining by the indirect method, I saw the horizontal oval ring. On directing the assistant to slowly move the light through a quarter circle to just above the patient's head, I noticed the macula ring change from a horizontal to a ver- tical oval and back again to a horizontal oval as the light was moved to a corresponding position on the other side of his face. Of course I had to tilt the lens in accordance with the shifting of the light, in order to bring the rays on to the macula, and it was this tilting of the lens which produced the change in the shape of the macula ring. Had the ring been a definite structural mark on the retina or choroid and not a mere reflex, it would of course have remained unaltered, but the fact that the ring is due to a reflection allows a slight amount of shifting, and it is this slight movement which causes the ring to appear drawn out into an oval, so to speak, when the light is at the side of the patient's face and the lens and mirror are imperceptibly tilted in consequence. When the direct method is used the distortion (due to the tilting of the lens) is avoided and the ring appears circular.