G. Lindsay Johnson. 14 to the fovea itself, but did not observe any sheen along them, although abundantly present along the vessels elsewhere, and even along the smallest twigs. Whether the slope of the macula floor or the scanty development of Midler's fibres at this point was the reason for the absence of reflex, I will not venture to surmise. The second form consists of a radiating ring of a grayish- white lustre round the macula (Figs. 2 and 3). The radii are all directed towards the fovea ; although losing their out- line at the edge of the macula, they may be traced for a variable distance (usually about \ PD) away from the macula. At the same time the fibres may be traced radiat- ing for some considerable distance from the margin of the disc. They bear a striking resemblance to nerve fibres, and I am of opinion that they are due to their partial translu- cency, although I am aware that Professor Schweigger, who has given great attention to this subject, considers the simi- lar appearance round the disc due to a peculiar arrangement of the connective-tissue fibres and not to the nerve fibres. To test this I compared several of these cases side by side with cases of undoubted opaque nerve fibres, and fortunately I found a patient in whom varying degrees of opacity of the nerve sheaths were present, and in parts where the fibres were merely translucent the appearance was identical with the striae above mentioned. The third form is so conspicuous that it may be seen even with the brightest illumination as a well marked whitish or golden ring of metallic lustre of the well known oval shape when examined with the inverted image, but quite circular with the direct method (Figs. 1 and 12). It is much nar- rower than the other two, and is sharply limited just inside the macula circumference, and becoming rapidly lost on its outside. In these cases, which occur for the most part in children, the macula can be seen to be raised or to have a thickened border, and I think that the shape of the macula border is the cause of its prominence. In the foregoing pages I have stated : That the ring around the macula can always, with a few