Observations on the Manila Lutea. that the older writers considered it as a foramen. Max Schultze described it minutely and figured it in his two cele- brated diagrams, which have been copied all the world over. Although it is quite impossible to recognize any alteration in level of the macula with the ordinary ophthalmoscope, there are many other ways of assuring one's self of this fact. The most obvious method that suggests itself, is to make axial sections through the macula region of a removed eye with a razor, and to examine the cut surface under a low power. But there are many difficulties in the way. It is exceedingly difficult to get perfectly fresh and healthy human retinae, and, when obtained, they must be examined immediately, as degeneration of the retinal elements sets in very rapidly, and especially where it is most to be avoided, viz., at the macula. If the eye be opened and thrown into water, the cells rapidly imbibe the fluid, and swell up, so that any attempt to ascertain the difference in level is seen at once to be hopeless. After some time the surface of the retina gets sodden and raised in the form of minute papillae, an appearance which becomes very striking round the macula if examined with a low magnifier. It is exceedingly difficult to prevent the retina becoming detached when manipulated after removal. The only way to accomplish this with certainty is to freeze the eye immediately it is excised, and then to make the section behind the equator, and afterwards through the macula itself. The vitreous need only be slightly frozen. The position of the macula is much more readily found by marking the top of the eye before removal, by which its exact position can be determined. I have experimented with Giraud-Teulon's binocular ophthalmoscope, which has shown to me very clearly the alteration in the level of the vessels as they curl over the edge of the macula. I think Purkinje's candle phantom, as described above, gives a very reliable and good representation of the cupping of the macula, as the relative depth and slope of various parts of the circumference can be judged by the length and blackness of the shadow cast by its side, but unfortunately one's observations are confined to one's own eyes.