21 Observations on the Macula Lutea. blood-vessels of the fundus is less marked than in the former case, but the macula ring is very prominent, and appears to be dis- tinctly raised above the general level. Quite a number of small twigs from the superior and inferior temporal arteries pass under the ring to disappear on the floor of the macula after bifurcation. The fovea is reddish, with a bright round central reflex spot. His vision exceeded anything I have ever noticed before or since. V = 1% and J =f at 6 feet. H (manifest) = 0.75 D. Astig- matism nil. Fig. 13.—The macula region of a negro from the Barbadoes, aet. thirty. The color of the fundus is several shades darker than that of the Congo natives. The macula ring is very feeble ; it is only seen as a faint shimmer, after the gas had been lowered. The macula region is darker towards the fovea. The foveal reflex is somewhat in the shape of a bat's-wing burner, being brightest at the centre of the fovea. V = f ; Em. Fig. 14.—The macula of an English boy, set. thirteen, with black hair and dark-brown irides ; sallow complexion. The choroidal vessels are exceptionally prominent, the interstices being filled with pigment. The curious radiating lines along the floor of the macula reaching to the foveal pit are most striking. Compare Figs. 7 and 15. V = | ; Emmetropic. Fig. 15.—The macula of an Albino, pale complexion, blue irides, and white hair. The choroidal vessels are just as prominent as in the last case, but all pigment is absent; the macula is filled with fine capillary vessels, but they are too small to be clearly defined. The fovea itself appears as an ill-defined reddish spot. From a woman, aet. twenty-one. Fig. 16.—The macula region of a woman, aet. thirty-six, with brown hair, gray eyes, fair complexion. The whole fundus is stippled over with black irregular-shaped specks like grains of pepper. The floor of the macula is filled with innumerable black specks, which are much finer and closer together than elsewhere. No halo could be discerned. V = | nearly. I have classified this case with the healthy maculae, although exaggerated cases may perhaps have to be considered as pathological.