G. Lindsay Johnson. 6 length gave too diffuse an illumination ; those over 3 in. began to show, as a rule, a distinct image of the flame, while those with a focus over 5 or 6 in. gave rise to flare rings and Heuse's phantom circles.' Having thus arrived at the best practical focal length for the mirror, I got a series of them made of 2\ inch focus, but with apertures varying from a pin's point to 4 mm. I found that very small apertures (under 2 mm) allowed too small a pencil of rays to reach the observer's eye, and thus the fundus appeared imperfectly illuminated, while apertures exceeding 3 mm caused a slight round shadow to fall on the fundus which increases in intensity with the size of the aper- ture. I found 2.25 mm and 2.5 mm to give the best results. It is very necessary to remove all traces of reflection from the edges of the sight-holes and from the rims of the cor- recting lenses, which, though not always troublesome in or- dinary fundus examination, may become so when observing the macula region, since the slightest reflection from the margin of the sight-hole, owing to its close approximation to the observer's eye, forms an indistinct but magnified im- age of itself in the shape of a semicircular flare or haze which occupies a considerable part of the usual field and greatly detracts from the clearness of the macula image.4 By observing, then, in the way above recommended, I find it best, as soon as I can see the macula at all, to turn down the gas flame rapidly to as low a point as possible consistent with good vision, and then the halo (or halos), if not previ- ously seen, invariably (of course with the exceptions above named) come into view. 1 Ein Lichtreflex der Retina, A. f. 0., i., 1884, p. 155. 2 Couper, in his "magazine" ophthalmoscope, by the invention of the chain- movement, by which a practically indefinite number of lenses can be rotated behind the aperture of the mirror without increasing the thickness or breadth of the instrument, has greatly facilitated the examination of the upright image ; for Mr. Couper maintains (and I am quite of his opinion) that the best results can only be obtained by single lenses for each focal length, and not by the superposition of one lens on the other, as is the case in nearly all ophthalmo- scopes in which the lenses are rotated by discs. For the examination of other parts of the fundus it does not matter so much which form be used, since the addition of two more reflecting surfaces will not interfere perceptibly with the clearness of the image, but in the examination of the macula it is essential that the number of reflecting surfaces should be reduced to a minimum, and for this reason alone the direct method is superior to the indirect one.