Observations on the Macula Lutea. •3 similar in appearance to that noticed skirting the blood-vessels and over the greater part of the fundus in darkly pigmented eyes (Figs.. 2, 4, 9, II, and 12). In some cases it only exists as a circle round the macula, rapidly fading away and losing itself as it reaches the floor, but spreading out for some con- siderable distance on the farther side of the macula, the distance varying to some extent with the position of the mirror, so that the breadth of the ring cannot be even ap- proximately measured, although the inner margin is much more sharply defined, and varies within very narrow limits, as the mirror is moved or tilted. This form of ring can usually only be seen when the gas is turned down as low as is consistent with good vision. In such cases, if the ring is well marked, the shot-silk appearance will appear following the vessels, now over them, and now as silvery flames extend- ing here and there along their sides, appearing and disap- pearing in various places as the mirror is shifted and tilted. The distinctness of this shot-silk sheen is always very marked in dark eyes, becoming less evident as the pigment decreases, until in very fair eyes, in which the choroidal ves- sels begin to shine through, it is hardly visible, although with patience and careful adjustment of the position and amount of the light traces of it can generally be seen. But still it is worthy of note that the macula circle is always the last to disappear, and the fundus must have very little pig- ment indeed if it cannot be made out at all. I believe that this ring is partly due to a reflection from the fibres of Miiller, where they expand into the membrana limitans interna, but this cannot be the only cause, as the reflex along the sides and over the vessels is always more conspicuous than anywhere else, and I can offer as an hypothesis that the fibrous sheaths of the vessels contribute largely to the cause, by slightly raising the portions of the retina immediately overlying them. The sheen is nearly absent in the immediate vicinity of the disc, and is entirely absent inside the macula region, excepting a narrow variable band just within its boundary. I searched carefully for this reflex within the macula in the case of the Congo boy, in whom I traced the retinal vessels