Observations on the Macula Lutea. 19 Explanation of the Colored Drawings. All the drawings represent the macula in perfectly healthy eyes, and comprise characteristic and carefully selected specimens of the chief varieties which have come under my notice. Fig. 1.—Shows a very well marked macula ring, with a foveal, and also an intermediate or secondary ring. The macula ring is characteristic of the third type as mentioned in the text. From an English youth, aet. eleven, with brown irides. H = 2 D. V = f. Fig. 2.—A good example of the first or ordinary type of macula rings {vide text). The fovea appears a dull red circular spot. Five glistening " crick" dots surround it. They appear like polished specks of metal, but the lustre can naturally not be ren- dered in the drawing. The floor of the macula was very little darker than the surrounding fundus. From an English youth, aet. 18. V = f ; Em. Fig. 3.—A macula halo of an intermediate form between the two described above. The foveal ring presents a peculiar circle of small yellowish dots arranged with great regularity. From an English boy, aet. eleven. H = 1 D. V = Fig. 4.—A common form of macula halo. This halo is peculiar in that it occupies nearly the entire macula region. The fovea appears as a small yellow spot. From an Englishman, set. twenty- five, V = -| ; Em. Fig. 5.—Shows a characteristic fovea often seen in adults. It is quite round and of a buff color like a fat-cell. The macula ring was barely visible, but consisted of a number of faint radiating lines which can be traced nearly to the fovea. From a man, aet. twenty-seven, light-brown hair. V = £ ; Em. Fig. 6.—A characteristic horseshoe form of the foveal reflex. The gap in the small circle can be made to assume almost any position by varying the position of the mirror and light. This macula reflex is an example of the second class. From an English boy, aet. eighteen. V — \ ; Em. Fig. 7.—Exhibits a short •" comet flare " with the apex at the fovea. The macula region is not homogeneous, but the arrange- ment of the pigment layer in lighter and darker spaces shows a radiating appearance, the light streaks tending towards the fovea. From an English girl, aet. eighteen. V = %. H = iD. Fig. 8.—A long "comet flare," from a boy with light flaxen hair, set. eight. V = \ ; Em. The direction of the tail is towards