9 Observations on the Macula Lutea. All the microscopical and entoptical observations, as far as I have been able to find, show that the macula is circular. Schmidt-Rimpler, as above stated, draws special attention to the circular form of the macula in his anatomical prepa- rations. Meyerhausen,1 Ewald,' and others have frequently figured and described Clerk Maxwell's entoptic figure as a bluish, star-shaped, circular patch. Lastly, Purkinje's candle experiment shows the macula to be quite circular. As this experiment helps us to become better acquainted with the shape of the macula than any other I know of, and as I am not aware that the detailed description of the appearance of the macula by this method has ever been given, I trust it will not be deemed out of place to describe it here.3 By moving the candle up and down or sideways about io° to the outer side of the visual axis, while gazing at a black surface in a dark room, the following points may be noticed by a practised observer. First, the retinal vessels appear raised and of a chocolate color on a dull gray-brown background. Suddenly, in the axis of vision, the macula comes into view as a brilliant, dark brick-red, perfectly circular patch, standing alone on the background. The edge of the macula appears raised, casting a shadow into its cup-shaped interior, as the candle is moved. On the edge of the macula nearest to the candle (z. e., the inner side) a brightish reflex may be seen, remind- ing one of the ophthalmoscopic macula reflex, excepting that it only occupies a portion of the circle at a time—i. e., the part directed to the light. Of course, this bright reflex may be seen to travel round the edge of the macula if the light is made to revolve in a circle round the optic axis. The macula appears about half the diameter of that seen by 1 A.f. 0., vol. xxvii., p. 2. * " Researches Heidelberg Institute," vol. ii., 2, p. 241. 3 A detailed description of these experiments, with an excellent drawing, was published in 1882 in these Archives, vol. xi., p. 476, etc., by Wm. C. Ayres, under the title, " The Blood Circulation in the Region of the Yellow Spot." H. K.