Observations on the Macula Lutea. •7 the macula, becomes less visible with age and beyond mid- dle life often disappears altogether, but it may frequently be seen as a tiny bright speck in the centre of the slightly darker red background when all traces of the macula ring have vanished. Several authors, especially Helmholtz, Loring, and Brecht, point to the similarity between these reflexes and the ap- pearance of the depression seen in the tympanic membrane below the end of the handle of the malleus. I may still refer to the fact that I find some authors in doubt as to the fovea reflex being always in the centre of the macula ring (being placed by many a little above the centre). My observations invariably show the foveal reflex to be at the centre, when in the shape of a ring or a dot, and in other shapes the apex of the reflex is always at the centre like- wise. If it does not appear in the centre it is due to the fact that the fovea being a deep depression, the reflex remains stationary, whilst the macula ring can by the tilting of the mirror or lens be made to move within narrow limits, and thus be made apparently to cause the fovea to appear eccentric. I have stated above that the fovea reflex seems unquestiona- bly due to the reflection of the edge of the fovea, and I fully believe that the varying appearances can all be accounted for by the fact that the foveal pit varies in shape as Schmidt- Rimpler and others have shown. C.—THE COLOR OF THE MACULA. I do not think it will be necessary to say a great deal on this head, as it is difficult to amplify with words that which has been so carefully depicted in the accompanying drawings. I would, however, remark that I do not observe any notice- able change in the color of the macula when varying the degree of illumination. I have taken great pains to get the color to appear right when seen by daylight, although as the drawings were made by gaslight the color is more correct when seen under the same conditions. In many cases, especially in persons over thirty-five, there