i6 G. Lindsay Johnson. to determine the limit of the macula region, it may prove of practical value in diagnosing whether a lesion or defect is situ- ated within or without the region of acute vision, B.—THE FOVEAL REFLEX. At the centre of the macula ring a very small ring is frequently seen at the edge of the dip of the fovea centralis. As regards this ring, from anatomical considerations alone, I think no other conclusion is possible than that it is due entirely to a reflection from the edge of the fovea; and I have not the slightest doubt that all the other kinds of reflexes to be met with at the fovea are due to the direction and shape of the sloping sides of the pit. The foveal reflex assumes a large number of shapes. It is generally very bright, like burnished gold, being sometimes a minute but perfect circle (Fig. 9), but more often shaped like a " C " (Fig. 6), the gap in the circle moving with the mirror and position of the light. Occasionally one sees a central spot of reflection (Fig. 4) which varies in different eyes, from a mere point of light to a long flare spot or comet (Figs. 7 and 8), with the apex at the fovea and the base of the " tail " at or near the circumference of the macula. This flare spot is very striking and very characteristic, but it is undoubtedly due to the same cause as the foveal ring, since I have traced every stage of its development. We see it in its simplest form as a spot of light (Fig. 4), then as a small ring (Fig. 5), then again as a series of dots (Fig. 3), then a horse-shoe form or a portion of a ring (Fig. 6). This in other cases appears with its centre filled and spread out like a bat's-wing or fish-tail gas-jet (Fig. 13). In other cases again it looks like a short comet (Fig. 7), and sometimes as a long comet with a tail extending as far as the edge of the macula (Fig. 8). I have even seen it appear as a glistening horizontal line reaching from a central bright dot to the limit of the macula. These are some of the forms which occur, but the appearance of the foveal reflex is exceedingly varied. The foveal reflex, like that round