4 G. Lindsay Johnson. tributed and disturbed.1 All such cases taken together do not nearly amount to five per cent, of the population. The observation of the macula ring is by no means easy in many cases, and it has necessitated repeated trials to determine the amount and direction of the light, and the direction and axis of the patient's eye, so as to produce the clearest image. The reflection of light from the fundus is so strong that the feeble reflection of the macula ring is entirely over- powered, and no trace of it is to be seen. But I discovered that if the source of illumination be gradually lowered, the reflection from the fundus decreases more rapidly than that from the margin of the macula, so that a time is arrived at when more light is reflected from the latter than from the general fundus, and at that moment the ring appears. There are cases in which the reflection from the macula circumfefence is so strong that no amount of reflection from the fundus can eclipse it; in such cases of course the ring may be observed by the full flame and even by the indirect method, but it is owing to the rarity of such cases that the appearance of the ring at all has become to be regarded as a phenomenon worthy of note. Moreover, in the direct observation the mirror should be held close to the pupil, in order to see the ring in its entirety, as otherwise the amount of the fundus seen at one time is too small to include it. In most cases, moreover, the macula ring can, even with reduced illumination, only be seen by placing the mirror and the patient's eye so as to observe the macula obliquely to the cone of reflected light proceeding from the macula itself, otherwise this cone of light produces so much dazzle and flare that the details cannot be clearly and satis- factorily made out. In some cases in which at first no ring can be discerned, I have usually been able to see it quite clearly by moving the ophthalmoscope either laterally or vertically across the field, close to the cornea, until the retinal shadow just 1 I have reason to believe the halo is often absent or at least less distinctly marked in so-called "neglected eyes," which have been disused from birth, but I have not yet been able to see a sufficient number of cases to state this definitely.