iS G. Lindsay Johnson* is very little difference in color between the macula and the rest of the fundus, and I find the same holds good in high myopes. I believe that it may be taken as a general rule that in normal eyes of Europeans the inner portion of the macula- appears of a more intense or brighter red than the fundus generally, the color deepening as it approaches the fovea centralis, where it is almost always masked by the bright foveal reflex varying in shape and intensity. Of course exceptions do occur, and the intensity of the red varies considerably in different individuals, there being naturally an ascending scale from very fair to very dark- haired people. I have never met with a black or brown appearance of the fovea centralis, such as has been depicted by several writers as mentioned in the introduction, although on one or two occasions I have seen a deep shadow which was no doubt due to the foveal pit being unusually deep and narrow, and which has given rise to the mistaken idea of a black or dark-colored fovea centralis. I have noticed that the macula region is devoid of that faintly granular appearance which can almost invariably be seen over the rest of the fundus by carefully focussing with the direct method of observation. I have frequently observed in the macula area, and espe- cially near the fovea, one or more minute yellowish dots somewhat resembling fatty particles ; in some cases they appear dull, in others glistening. I am not sure whether they ought to be considered as pathological or not. At any rate they are exceedingly common in the macula area, though they are by no means confined to that region. In concluding this article I am fully aware that I have by no means exhausted the subject, and that it will no doubt be possible to find exceptions to the rules I have tried to establish. But I cannot help feeling impressed with the im- portance, not to say the necessity, of arriving at such a definition of the ophthalmoscopic appearances of the healthy macula as will enable us to distinguish the slightest trace of a pathological condition in this the most essential portion of the retina.