20 G. Lindsay Johnson. a point just above the disc. I have found that comets are invariably either in this direction (or more rarely) directly inwards. The sight in this and the foregoing case was perfect, and the eye in the latter emmetropic. This is noteworthy, as these " comet flares " are sup posed by Marcus Gunn to be confined to amblyopic myopes. {Trails. Oph. Soc, vol. viii., p. 173.) Fig. 9.—A very pronounced example of the 1st class of macula rings. The foveal ring is quite circular,—the fovea itself being bright scarlet. From a very dark-olive-complexioned Spanish girl with black hair and dark-brown irides. V = ■§•. H = 1 D. Fig. 1 o.—The macula of a Siamese boy, set. twelve, born in India. The radiating macula ring of class 2 can be faintly discerned. The floor of the macula is dark, which makes the fovea look redder by comparison than it actually is. The boy had a dark- yellow complexion with dark-brown irides and brown-black hair. V = #. H = 1 D. Fig. 11.—The macula region of a native African boy, set. six- teen, of the flat-nosed prognathous negro type, from Vidi, Lower Congo region. The reflex from the whole fundus is very pro- nounced, but the general color of the fundus, as indeed in all the natives of Equatorial Africa, is much lighter than in the case of half-casts from the same region, of American and West Indian negroes, and even gypsies. Two distinct macula halos, one lying over the other, can be made out quite clearly.. Both halos are quite circular, the superficial one extending further over the floor of the macula than the deeper one. By shifting the mirror the superficial one could be seen to glide slightly over the deeper, thus showing that they were due to different causes and to differ- ent layers in the retina. Two retinal vessels, one arterial and one venous, could be traced to the fovea, which appeared as a dark cherry-red circular patch. Three bright crick dots are to be seen on its upper border. The two yellowish streaks, beneath the horizontal superior tem- poral artery, are due to a ruptured choroid of long standing from a severe blow in the eye, but this in no way affected his vision, which is quite phenomenal, the eye being absolutely healthy. V = T?5- and J = 1 at 6 feet. H (manifest) = 0.75 D. Fig. 12.—The macula region of a native boy from Stanley Pool, Equatorial Africa. This boy belongs to a distinct and superior race to the former, having a well developed nose, and thinner, less prominent lips. The general reflex along the