Observations on the Macula Lutea. 7 All the drawings accompanying this paper represent the ring as seen by the direct method, and therefore all appear circular. With the indirect method, however, I find it diffi- cult to see the halo at all unless well pronounced, because the indirect method does not admit of the fundus being seen at all with the decreased illumination necessary to ob- serve the halo with the direct method, the distance at which the mirror is held, together with the intervention of the lens, increases the reflection and renders the oblique obser- vation of the macula extremely difficult. In observing the halo by the direct method I find the use of atropine makes no difference, excepting to render the image clearer and more free from flare, and the only explana- tion that I can give why authors state that the use of atro- pine causes the ring to disappear, is that they have doubt- less used the indirect method, by which the illumination is of necessity very great, and the reflection from the choroid considerably increased by the enlargement of the pupil, so much so as to mask the ring, which, as I have already stated, can only be seen by reducing the illumination in order to, so to say, darken the background. As, moreover, the intensity of illumination varies inversely as the square of linear magnifi- cation, the illumination by the indirect method must, cceteris paribus, be much greater than by the direct, and even that, as I have pointed out, is in most cases too strong when the usual amount of light is employed. II.— The macula is invariably circular, and probably corre- sponds to the extreme limit of the macular region. When viewed by the direct method the ring always appears circu- lar. If authors have until now seen the ring as an oval, as mentioned above, it is no doubt due to the use of the indi- rect method, and I find that in cases in which the ring is sufficiently intense to be seen by this method, it appears as horizontally or slightly obliquely oval. Schmidt-Rimpler, in trying to account for the oval oph- thalmoscopic appearance of what his anatomical observa- tions showed to be a circle,1 thinks it due to the fact that the curvature of the cornea is greater in the vertical than in 1 Schmidt-Rimpler : A, f. 0., xxi., Abth. 3, p. 26.