MILITARY SURGKRV. 222 for any great length of time, as it produces considerable depression of nervous power; it may, nevertheless, be again and again resorted to, the scalp being covered in the intervals with thin old linen cloth kept wet. The on the bed, muttering incoherent nonsense, apparently incapa- ble of moving his lower extremities or turning round, whilst the upper were being constantly moved about, and the hand pressed to the sides of the head. The head rolled incessantly from side to side, with the eyes partly open and pupils dilated. The pulse was quick, small, and very feeble: notwithstanding, however, the vessels of the head appeared surcharged. The face was flushed, and the brows very hot. In fact, the head seemed superabundantly supplied with blood, whilst the body was dying from exhaustion. In short, this was a case of extreme prostration, with most serious cerebral oppression. I concluded it was necessary to support the general system, and at the same time relieve the oppressed bone. I could not hope much from my stock of medicines, viz. salts, oil, soda, and camphor: whereupon I gave an ounce of wine beaten up with the yelk of an egg and two ounces of water every four hours. I placed the patient upon a bed with his shoulders resting on its edge, and his head upon a chair, shaved the scalp, and poured cold water over the whole of it, from a vessel with a spout, for hours together. Two men were ordered to this duty, who relieved each other, whilst I watched the effects: namely, the head, before rolling about, became instantly quiet, the arms sank gradually to the sides, the eyes closed as in sleep, the pulse became more soft, the breathing slower, and still more slow, until it was necessary to suspend the remedy for a time. In ten minutes or so the patient beeame more restless, mut- tered a sound or two, and pressed his hands upon his head, and again sank to repose, when the water was again poured on. This gentleman (Mr. Egerton) is now in this country, perfectly well, and about to return to India.