MUSCLE6 OF THE BACK. 202 The action of the splenius, taken as a whole, is to draw the head and the upper cervical vertebraa towards its own side: so far, it co-operates with the opposite sterno-mastoid muscle. When the splenii of opposite sides contract, they extend the cervical portion of the spine, and keep the head erect. The permanent contraction of a single splenius may occasion ' wry neck.' It is necessary to be aware of this, otherwise one might suppose the opposite sterno- mastoid to be affected, considering that the appearance of the distortion is alike in either case. The splenius and serratus posticus inferior are to be detached from their origins; after reflecting the vertebral aponeurosis from its internal attachment the erector spinas is exposed. The mass of muscle which occupies the vertebral groove on either side of the spine, is, coUectively, called ' erector spinae,' since it counteracts the tendency of the trunk to fall forwards. Observe that it is thickest and strongest at that part of the spine where it has the greatest weight to support, namely, in the lumbar region; and that its thickness gradually decreases towards the top of the spine. It arises by tendinous fibres from the posterior fifth of the crest of the ilium, the sacrum, and the spines of the lumbar vertebrse. From this extensive origin the muscular fibres ascend, at first as a single mass. Near the last rib, this mass divides into two; an outer, called the ' sacro-lumbalis;' an inner, the ' longissimus dorsV These two portions should be followed up the back : and there is no difficulty in doing so, because the division is indicated by a longitudinal groove, in which we observe the cutaneous branches of the intercostal vessels and nerves. Tracing the sacro-lumbalis upwards, we find that it baUs°'^^°^' fei'minates in a series of tendons which are inserted into the angles of the six lower ribs. By turning outwards the sacro-lumbalis, we observe MuBculus ^^Q^ continued upwards under the name of ' jJitts- accessorius. , '■ cuius accessorius ad sacro-lumhalem.' This arises by a series of tendons from the angles of the seven or eight lower ribs, and is inserted into the angles of the five or six upper ribs.