DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 568 Zone of wliicli the crystalline lens is imbedded; around this Ziuu. depression is the ' zo7ie of Zinn.'* This zone is best exposed by removing the ciliary body. It then appears like a dark disk, and extends from the front margin of the retina nearly to the capsule of the lens: its surface is marked by prominent ridges which correspond with the intervals between the ciliary processes (fig. 136). It is supposed to form the suspensory liga- ment for maintaining the lens in its proper position. ^ ^ If the transparent membrane between the zone of Petit. ° Z'mn and the margin of the lens be carefully punctured, and the point of a small blow-pipe gently introduced, we may succeed in inflating a canal which encircles the lens, and, when inflated, resembles a circle of small glass beads: this is the canal of Petit, or 'canal godronne^ (fig. 136, p. 565). How this canal is formed, whether by the separation of the hyaloid mem- brane into two layers or not, and what is its use, are questions not satisfactorily determined. The crystalline lens (fig. 134) is a perfectly trans- Crystai.- parent solid body, situated immediately behind the LINE LENS. ^ pupil, and partly imbedded in the vitreous humour. It is convex on both surfaces, but more so behind. Its shape and consistence vary at different periods of life. In early life it is nearly spherical and soft, but it becomes more flattened, firmer, and amber-coloured with advancing age. In the adult, its trans- verse diameter is about three-eighths of an inch; its antero- posterior, one-fifth of an inch. The lens is surrounded by a capsule equally transparent as it- self. The capsule is composed of tissue exactly similar to the elastic layer of the cornea. It is four times thicker in front than behind, as might be expected, for the sake of more effective support. No vascular connection whatever exists between the lens and itscapsule.f * Zinn was Professor of Anatomy at G-ottingen about the middle of the eighteenth century, and author of ' Descriptio Anat. Oculi Humani.' t The vessels of the capsule of tlie lens are derived &om the arteria centralis retinae, and, in mammalia, can only be injected in the foetal state. In the reptilia, however, the posterior layer of the capsule is permanently vascular. According to Quekelt,