BRAXCHES OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID. 46 The superior thyroid, the first branch of the external fhyroX carotid, arises just below the great cornu of the os- artory. hyoides. It runs beneath the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles to the upper and front surface of the thyroid bod}', in which it terminates. Its branches are the four following :— 1. The hyoid, a small muscular branch, runs horizontally in- wards below the greater cornu of the os-hyoides, and anastomoses "with its fellow. 2. The superior laryngeal branch, accompanied by the supe- rior laryngeal nerve, runs beneath the thyro-hyoid muscle, perforates the thyro-hyoid membrane (sometimes the thyroid cartilage), and supplies the muscles and the mucous membrane of the larynx. 3. The sterno-mastoid, a small branch variable as to origin, descends over the sheath of the carotid artery to the mastoid muscle. 4. The crico-thyroid, an artery of great interest in reference to the operation of laryngotomy, crosses the crico-thyroid membrane, and communicates with a corresponding branch on the opposite side (fig. 7, p. 25), One or two small branches pass through the membrane to the interior of the larynx. It is important to know that the crico-thyroid artery often varies in direction and size. In most cases it is small, and runs across the centre of the membrane; we should therefore be least likely to wound it in laryngotomy, by dividing the membrane close to the cricoid cartilage. But it is by no means infrequent to find this artery of considerable size, taking an oblique or a perpendicular direction in front of the membrane, and finally distributed to one of the lobes of the thyroid body. I have seen several instances in which the mem- brane was crossed by the main trunk of the superior thyroid. These facts should establish the practical rule in laryngotomy, not to make an opening into the larynx until we have fairly exposed the parts, and ascertained whether any large artery lies in the way. Among the many arterial inosculations about the thyroid body