171 DISSECTION OF THE LAKYNX. The following table shows the action of the several muscles which act upon the glottis :ѥ Crico-thyroidei . . . Stretch the Vocal Cords. Thyro-ai^tenoidei . . Eelax the Vocal Cords, and place them in the vocalising position. Crico-arytenoidei postici . Dilate the glottis. Crico-arytenoidei laterales . Draw together the arytenoid i cartilages Arytenoideus . . . Ditto Ditto Ditto close the glottis. The blood-vessels of the larynx are derived from the superior and inferior thyroid arteries. The laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid passes through the thyro-hyoid membrane with the corresponding nerve, and divides into branches, which supply the muscles and the mucous membrane. The laryngeal branches of the inferior thyroid ascend behind the cricoid cartilage. A constant artery passes through the crico-thyroid membrane. The nerves of the larynx are the superior and inferior (re- current) laryngeal branches of the pneumogastric. The superior laryngeal, having passed through the thyro-hyoid membrane, divides into branches, distributed to the mucous mem- brane of the larynx. Its filaments spread out in various direc- tions ; some to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the epiglottis, and to the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, others to the interior of the larynx and the vocal cords. A constant filament descends behind the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and communicates with the re- current. Its external laryngeal branch supplies the crico-thyroid muscle (p. 98). The inferior {recurrent) laryngeal nerve enters the larynx beneath the inferior constrictor, and ascends behind the joint between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. It supplies all the intrinsic muscles of the larynx, except the crico-thyroid. If the recurrent nerve be divided, or in any way injured, the muscles others are found lower down. These, being distributed over the yentricle of the larynx, can approximate its walls so as almost to obliterate the cavity. Hence the name '^mprcssor sacculi laryngis,'given to this part of the muscle by Mr. Hilton (Oruys Hospital Reports, vol. ii.), who first drew attention to it.