DISSECTION OF THE HEART. 132 more iu front of the aorta: the deep plexus is between the arch of the aorta and the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery. From these plexuses the nerves proceed, in company with the coronary arteries, to the heart. Those which accompany the anterior coronary artery form the ' anterior coronary plexuH.' The ' posterior coronary plexus ' proceeds with its artery to the posterior part of the heart. But it is not an easy matter to trace the nerves into the sub- stance of the heart. For this purpose a horse's heart is the best, and previous maceration in water is desirable. The nerves in the substance of the heart are peculiar in this respect; that they pre- sent minute ganglia in their course, which are presumed to preside over the rhythmical contractions of the heart.* Draw aside the margin of the right lung; divide the of the Sot'of superior vena cava above the vena azygos, and turn each lung. ^^^^-^ the lower part. Kemove the layer of pericardium which covers the pulmonary veins, and the constituent parts of the root of the right lung will be exposed. It is composed of the pulmonary artery, the pulmonary veins, bronchus, bronchial vessels, anterior and posterior pulmonic plexus, and some lymphatics. The followincr is the disposition of the large vessels forming the root of the lunS In front are the two pulmonary veins: behind the veins are the subdivisions of the pulmonary artery; behind the artery are the divisions of the bronchus. From above downwards they are disposed thus :-0n the right side we find-1st the bronchus ; 2nd, the artery; 3rd, the veins. On the left, we hnd :- 1st, the artery; 2nd, the bronchus; 3rd, the veins, as shown m np-_. 27. DISSECTION OF THE HEAET. The heart is conical in form, and more or less convex on its external aspect It is situated obliquely in the chest, having its base directed upwards and to the right; its apex downwards and to the left. Notice the longitudinal grooves on the upper and * For the demonstration of the nerves of the heart, the student should see the b^uHM diLctions by Pettigrew in the Museum of the Eoyal College of Surgeons.