SUPERFICIAL VESSELS OF THE GROIN".- ^QQ angles of the ribs. The skin should then be dissected from the subjacent adipose and areolar tissue, called the 'superficial fascia,' The subcutaneous tissue of the abdomen presents the fS. ^^^^ general characters as that of other parts, and varies in thickness in different individuals. At the lower part of the abdomen, it admits of separation into two layers,, between which are found the subcutaneous blood vessels, the absorbent glands, the ilio-inguinal nerve, and the hypogastric branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve. Respecting the superficial layer, observe that it contains the fat, and is continuous with the superficial fascia of the thigh, the scrotum, and the perineum. The deeper layer is intimately'con- nected with Poupart's ligament and the linea alba ; but it is very loosely contimied over the spermatic cord and the scrotum, and becomes identified with the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the permeum. These points deserve attention, since they explain how urine, extravasated into the perineum and scrotum, readily makes its way over the spermatic cord on to the surface of the ab- domen; but from this it cannot travel down the thigh, on account of the connection of the fascia with Poupart's ligament. Superficial Between the layers of the superficial fascia on the aiTgilndf ^f"" aiid upper part of the thigh, are several absorbent glands and small blood vessels (fig. 59). The glands are named, according to their situation, inguinal and femoral The mgumal, from three to four in number, are often small, and escape observation. They are of an oval form, with their lono- axis corresponding to the line of the crural arch (represented by the dark line in fig. 59). They receive the absorbents from the lower part of the wall of the. abdomen, from the scrotum and perns and are therefore generally affected in venereal disease. The lymphatics from the upper part of the abdominal parietes terminate in the lumbar glands. The superficial arteries in the neighbourhood arise from the femoral. One the epigastric, ascends over Poupart's ligament and ramifies over the lower part of the abdomen, inosculating with the deep epigastric artery; another, the puclic, crosses the spermatic