144 STRUCTURE OK THE LUNGS. 5. The hypogastric arteries become obliterated from the fourth or fifth day after birth. STEUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. The lungs are very vascular, spongy organs, in which the blood is purified by exposure to atmospheric air. Their situation and shape have been already described (p. 119). We have now to examine their creneral structure. The lungs are composed of cartilaginous and membranous tubes, of which the successive subdivisions convey the air into closely- packed minute cells, called the 'air vesicles*,' of the ramifications of the pulmonary artery and veins; of the bronchial vessels con- cerned in their nutrition ; of lymphatics and nerves. These com- ponent parts are united by areolar tissue, and covered externally by pleura. The point at which they respectively pass in and out is called the ' root' of the lung. The lungs are the lightest organs in the body, and float in water. When entirely deprived of air, they sink. This is observed in certain pathological conditions; e.g. when one lung is compressed by effusion into the chest, or rendered solid by inflammation. When an opening is made into the chest, the lung, Contractility ^jjid^ ^as in contact with the ribs, immediately recedes ° ^ from them, and, provided there be no adhesions, gra- dually contracts. If the lungs be artificially inflated, either in or out of the chest, we observe that, left to themselves, they spon- taneously expel a part of the air. This constant disposition to contract, in the living and the dead lung, is owing to the elastic tissue in the bronchial tubes and the air-cells ; but more especially to a layer of delicate elastic tissue on the surface of the lung, which has been described by some anatomists as a distinct coat, imder the name of the second or inner layer of the pleura.* The lungs are of a livid red or violet colour; they Colour. ^^^^^ present a mixture of tints, giving tiiem a marble- * In some animals, tho seal especially, the elasticity of this tissue is very strongly marked.