512 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN, lubricated by a serous fluid to prevent friction; since the brain rises and falls with a slight pulsation, caused in part by the action of the heart, in part by respiration. The parietal layer is so thin that it cannot be demonstrated as a distinct layer; it consists of little more than a layer of squamous epithelium, lining the inner aspect of the dura mater. But the visceral layer is obvious: colourless and transparent, it is spread uniformly over the surface of the brain, and does not dip into the furrows between the con- volutions. On account of its extreme tenuity, and its close adhesion to the pia mater, it cannot be readily separated from this membrane; but there are parts at the base of the brain, termed ' sub-arachnoid' spaces, where the arachnoid membrane can be seen distinct from the subjacent tissue. , The arachnoid membrane is separated in certain SuD-arachnoid n -j / l spaces and situations from the pia mater by a serous fluid {cereoro- fluid. spinal) contained in the meshes of very delicate areolar tissue. Such spaces are called ' suh-arachnoicV There is one in the longitudinal fissure of the cerebrum, where the arachnoid does not descend to the bottom, but passes across below the edge of the falx, a little above the corpus callosum. At the base of the brain there are two of considerable size :—one, the ' middle sub-arachnoid space,' is situated between the pons Varolii and the commissure of the optic nerves; the other, the ' posterior,' is situated between the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata. In the spinal cord, also, there is a considerable interval between the arachnoid and the pia mater occupied by fluid. The purpose of this fluid is, not only to fill up space, like fat in other parts, but mechanically to protect the nervous centres from the violent shocks and vibrations to which they would otherwise be liable. The base of the brain may, in truth, be said to be supported by abed of fluid, which insinuates itself into all the inequalities of the surface, and surrounds all the nerves down to the foramina, through which they pass. This fluid sometimes escapes through the ear, in cases of fracture through the base of the skull, involving the meatus auditorius internus and the petrous portion of the temporal bone.