DISSECTION OF THE HEART. I33 lower sm-faces of the heart, indicatiog the divisions of the ven- tricles, and the circular groove near the base, indicating the sei^a- ration between the ventricles and auricles. These grooves are occupied by the corouary vessels and by more or less fat. Weight. average weight of the heart is from ten to twelve ounces in the male, and from eight to ten in the female; but much depends upon the size and condition of the body gene- rally. As a rule, it may be stated that the heart gradually in- creases m length, breadth, and thickness, from childhood to age.* The heart is a double muscular organ; that is, it is composed of two hearts, a right and a left, separated by a septum. Each consists of an auricle and a ventricle, which communicate by a wide orifice : the right heart propels the blood through the luno-s and is called the pulmonic ; the left propels the blood through the body, and is called the systemic. These two hearts are not placed apart, because important advantages result from their union • by being enclosed in a single bag they occupy less room in the chest • and the action of their corresponding cavities being precisely syn- chronous, their fibres, mutually intermixing, contribute to their mutual support. The cavities of the heart should now be exammed in the order in which the blood circulates through them Eight auricle. ^ ^'^"^^^^ right side of the base of the heart, and forms a quadrangular cavity between the two ven^ cavffi, from which it receives the blood. From its front a small pouch projects towards the left, and overlaps the root of the aorta; this part is termed the appendix of the auricle and resembles a dog's ear in shape; unde nomen. To see the interior, make a horizontal incision through the anterior wall from the apex of the appendix, transversely across he cavity: from this make another upwards at right angles into the superior vena cava. Observe that the interior is lined by a polished membrane called the 'endocardium; and that it is everywhere smooth except in the appendix, where the mus ular the teeth of a comb, ' muscuh pectvnati: They radiate from the * Consult Bizot, M^n.. de la Soc. M&d. d'Obser. de Paris, ton., i. 1836.