250 DISSECTION OF THE EKONT OF THE FOllEARM. In the middle third of its course the artery is accompanied by the radial nerve (a branch of the musculo-spiral) which lies to its outer side. Below this point, the nerve leaves the artery, and passes under the tendon of the supinator longus to the back of the hand. Thus, in the situation where the pulse is felt, the radial nerve no longer accompanies the artery; nevertheless, the vessel is not without a nerve, for it is accompanied by a branch of the musculo- cutaneous (or external cutaneous), which runs superficial to it. The radial artery sends off in the forearm the following branches, besides offsets, which supply the muscles on the outer side of the forearm. The radial recurrent is given off just below the elbow ; it passes outwards to supply the long and short supinators and the two radial extensors. One of its ramifications runs up with the musculo-spiral nerve between the supinator longus and brachialis anticus, and forms a delicate inosculation with the superior profunda (p. 240). The arteria superficialis voloi arises from the radial, about half an inch, or more, above the lower end of the radius ; it runs superficially over the anterior annular ligament, above or perhaps through the origin of the muscles of the ball of the thumb, into the palm of the hand, where it inosculates with the superficial branch of the ulnar, and completes the superficial palmar arch.* The anterior and posterior carpal arteries are small branches of the radial, which run beneath the tendons, and supply the synovial membrane and bones of the carpus, anastomosing with the anterior interosseous, the carpal branches of the ulnar, and the recurrent carpal branch of the deep palmar arch. The radial nerve, a branch of the musculo-spiral, is Eadial nerve. ^.^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^ elbow, deep between the supinator radii longus and brachialis anticus; it descends on * There is great variety in the size and origin of the superficialis volae; sometimes it is very large, arises higher than usual, and runs to the wrist parallel with the radial; sometimes it is vei-y small, terminating in the muscles of the thumb ; or it may be absent.