SOi-E OF THE FOOT. 499 Interossei. ^^^^^ muscles are arranged nearly like those in the palm. They occupy the intervals between the meta- tarsal bones, and are seven in number, four being on the dorsal aspect of the foot, three on the plantar. They arise from the sides of the metatarsal bones, and terminate in tendons which are inserted, some into the inner, others into the outer side of the first phalanges of the toes and their extensor tendons. Their use is to draw the toes to or from each other, and they do this or that according to the side of the phalanx on which they act. Now, if we draw an imaginary longitudinal line through the second toe, we find that all the dorsal muscles draw from that line, and' the plantar towards it. This is the key to the action of them all; A more detailed account of these muscles is given in the dissection of the palm (p. 292). Between the tendons of the interossei, that is, between the distal ends of the metatarsal bones, there are little bursse to facilitate movement. These burs^ are not without interest. They sometimes become enlarged and occasion painful swellings between the roots of the toes. The flexor brevis minimi digiti, the transversalis pedis, and all the interossei are supplied by the external plantar nerve. Now trace the tendons of the peroneus longus and tibialis posticus. The tendon of the peroneus longus is the deepest in the sole. It runs through a groove in the cuboid bone obliquely across the sole towards its insertion into the outer side of the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. It is confined in a strong fibrous sheath, lined throughout by synovial membrane. ^ The tendon of the tibialis posticus may be traced over the internal lateral ligament of the ankle, and thence under the head of the astragalus-to the scaphoid bone into which it is chiefly inserted. One or two slips are sent off to the cuneiform bones Observe that the tendon contributes to support the head of the astragalus,_and that for this purpose it often contains a sesamoid u . .''''' ^^'^ ""^^y provisions for the solidity of the arch of the foot. K K 2