SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 5G Dupuytren in the year 1819. More recently it has beeu performed by Dr. Warren, of Boston. The patient recovered, though the pleura was wounded.* But in the last part of its course, that is, on the outer side of the scalenus, the artery may be tied with comparative facility. The incision should be made from three to four inches in length, parallel with the upper border of the clavicle. We divide the platysma, some of the supra-clavicular nerves, and the cervical fascia. The external jugular vein must be drawn to the outer side, or divided and tied at both ends. With the finger and the handle of the scalpel we then make our way down to the outer edge of the scalenus anticus, behind which the artery will be found lying upon the first rib. Eemember the tubercle on the inner edge of the rib which indicates the insertion of the scalenus: this tubercle is the best guide to the artery. It will be necessary to divide a layer of fascia which immediately covers the vessel before the needle can be introduced around it. Mr. Eamsden of St. Bartholomew's Hospital was the first who tied the subclavian in the third part of its course, in the year 1809 ; since that time the operation hr.s been repeatedly performed, with most favourable results. In the hands of a surgeon possessed of a practical knowledge of anatomy the operation is easy, provided all circumstances be favourable; but circumstances are often very unfavourable. It often happens that the aneurismal or other tumour, on account of which the operation is performed, raises the clavicle beyond its natural level, and so disturbs the parts, that to expose the artery and place a ligature around it becomes exceedingly difficult- Under such circumstances one cannot be surprised that even dis- tinguished anatomists have committed mistakes. Sir Astley Cooperf failed in one instance. Dupuytren perforated the artery with the point of the needle, and included one of the nerves in the ligature : fatal haimorrhage was the result.^ I was present at an » Med. Chinirg. Trans., vol. xxix. p. 25. t London Medical Review, vol. ii. p. 300. + Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal, vol. xvi. 1820.