DEPRESSORS OF THE OS-HYOIDES. 26 does not proceed straight from origin to insertion, but forms an obtuse angle beneatli the sterno-rnastoid muscle. The inter- mediate tendon is situated at the angle, and is bound down to the first rib by a process of the deep cervical fascia. The object of this peculiar direction of the omo-hyoid appears to be to keep tense that part of the cervical fascia which covers the apex of the lung, and thus to resist atmospheric pressure. ^ ^. The sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid of the'^de- muscles, co-operate in fixing the larynx and os-hyoides, F'essor g_ g_ sucking, or they depress the larynx after it has been raised in deglutition. Again, they depress it in the utterance of grave notes. That the larynx is raised or depressed according to the height of the note may be ascertained by placing the finger upon it while we go through the gamut. These depressor muscles are all supplied with nerves (fig. 7, p. 25) by the 'descendens noni' (a branch of the ninth, or hypo- glossal), and by the ' communicantes noni' (branches of the cervical plexus). The descendens noni sends a separate branch to each belly of the omo-hyoid. They are supplied with blood by the superior thyroid artery. The thyro-hyoid arises from the oblique line on the hymd" thyroid cartilage, and runs up to be inserted into the body and half the great cornu of the os- hyoides. This muscle is a continuation of the sterno-thyroid. It is supplied by a special branch from the hypoglossal nerve. It covers the thyro-hyoid membrane, and the superior laryngeal nerve and artery as they enter the larynx. The sterno-mastoid muscle must now be reflected from its origin to examine the course and relations of the common carotid artery. This done, notice the strong layer of fascia which lies under the sterno-mastoid, and forms the under part of its sheath. It is at- tached to the angle of the jaw, thence descends over and protects the great vessels of the neck, and is firmly connected to the clavicle and first rib. This fascia prevents matter from coming to the surface, when suppuration takes place by the side of the pharynx.