244 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM. The eventual distribution of the nerve is to the flexor carpi ulnarisj half the flexor profundus digitorum, all the interosseous muscles of the hand, Loth sides of the little finger, and the ulnar side of the ring finger; also to the muscles of the ball of the little finger. Previous to the examination of the musculo-spiral nerve, we should have some knowledge of the great muscle which occupies the whole of the posterior part of the humerus—viz., the triceps. . This muscle has three distinct origins, named from Triceps 1 ■ 7 77 extensor their position, external, internal, and middle or long cubiti. head (p. 229). The middle or long head arises by a flat tendon from the inferior border of the scapula, close to the glenoid cavity. The external head arises from the humerus immediately below the insertion of the teres minor. The internal head arises from the humerus below the insertion of the teres major. The three heads unite near the middle of the arm to form a single fleshy mass, which covers the posterior part of the elbow-joint, and is inserted by a thick tendon into the summit and sides of the olecranon. ^ This, the largest of the brachial nerves, arises, in spiral or common with the circumflex, from the posterior cord radial nerve. q£ ^j-^g axillary plexus (p. 231). It descends at first behind the axillary artery, and then winds obliquely round the posterior part of the humerus, between the external and internal heads of the triceps, in company with the superior profunda artery. About the lower third of the outer side of the arm, the nerve runs deeply imbedded between the brachialis anticus and the supinator radii longus. A little above the elbow-joint it divides into its two principal branches—the radial, which accom- panies the radial artery along the forearm—and the posterior interosseous, which perforates the supinator brevis, and supplies all the muscles on the back of the forearm. What is the distribution of this great nerve ? In a word, it supplies all the extensors of the forearm, wrist, thumb, and fingers; and all the supinators except one, namely, the biceps (supplied by the external cutaneous nerve).