218 PECTORAL REGION. be carefully dissected. They are derived from various sources: some, branches of the superficial cervical plexus, descend over the clavicle; others, branches of the intercostal nerves, come through the intercostal spaces close to the sternum, with a small artery; a third series, also branches of the intercostal nerves, come out on the side of the chest, and run forwards over the outer border of the pectoralis major. The supra-clavicular nerves, which descend over the clavicle, are subdivided, according to their direction, into sternal, cla- vicxdar, and acromial branches (diagram, p. 15). The sternal cross the inner end of the clavicle to supply the skin over the upper part of the sternum. The clavicular pass over the middle of the clavicle, and supply the integument over the front of the chest and the mammary gland. The acromial branches cross over the outer end of the clavicle, and distribute their filaments to the skin of the shoulder. Near the sternum you find the anterior cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves. After traversing the pectoralis major, each nerve sends a filament to the skin over the sternum, and a larger one, which supplies the skin, over the pectoral muscle. Branches of the internal mammary artery, for the supply of the mammary gland, accompany these nerves. During lactation they increase in size, ramifying tortuously over the surface of the gland. I have seen them nearly as large as the radial at the wrist. They would require a ligature in removal of the breast. The lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves come out between the digitations of the serratus magnus on the side of the chest. They will be more fully described presently. Eemove the superficial fascia with the mammary gland from the pectoralis major, by dissecting parallel to the course of the fibres. When the muscle has been fully exposed, observe its shape, the course of its fibres, their origin and insertion. Pectoralis The pectoralis major is the great triangular muscle major.' qd the front of the chest. It arises from the sternal half of the clavicle, from the front of the sternum, from the carti- lages of all the true ribs except the last, and from the aponeurosis