DISSECTION or THE PALM OE THE HAND. 263 tendons play over them ? Look into an open sheath, and you will see that in front of the joints the tendons glide over a smooth fibro-cartilaginous structure, called the ' glenoid' ligament. To facilitate the play of the tendons, the interior of the sheath, as -well as the tendons, is lined by a synovial membrane, of the extent of which it is important to have a correct knowledge. With a probe you may easily ascertain that the synovial membrane is reflected from the sheath upon the tendons, a little above the metacarpal joints of the fingers; that is, nearly in a line with the transverse fold in the skin in the lower third of the palm. Towards the distal end of the finger, the synovial sheath stops short of the last joint, so that it is not injured in amputation of the ungual phalanx. And now notice how beautifully the tendons are adapted to each other in their course along the finger. The superficial flexor, near the root of the finger, becomes slightly grooved to receive the deep flexor; about the middle of the first phalanx it splits into two portions, through which the deep flexor passes. The two portions reunite below the deep tendon so as completel}'- to embrace it, and then divide a second time into two slips, which interlace with each other and are inserted into the sides of the second phalanx. The dee'p flexor, having passed through the opening of the super- ficial one, is inserted into the base of the last phalanx.* In what way are the tendons supplied with blood ? Eaise and separate the tendons, and you will see that slender folds of synovial membrane (vincula tendinum) run up from the phalanges to the tendons; when minutely injected, these folds are full of blood- vessels. The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis lies on the radial side of the other tendons beneath the annular ligament. It passes between the two portions of the flexor brevis pollicis and the two sesamoid bones of the thumb, enters its proper sheath, and is inserted into * In the museum of the College of Surgeons, a preparation is put up which shows a beautiful piece of animal mechanics about the flexor tendons; namely, that in its passage along the phalanges the deep flexor forms at the first phalanx a kind of little patella for the superficial one; but at the second phalanx the supei-ficial flexor lies deeper than the other, and forms a little patella for it. This is a very pretty mechani- cal ingenuity to increase the leverage in each case.