SOLE OF THE FOOT. 494 (p. 508). This is exemplified in some cases of distortion, where an unnatural contraction of the plantar fascia makes the arch of the foot too convex; and it is necessary to divide the fascia to relieve the deformity. The arrangement of the fascia is like that in the palm. The central part, where there is the greatest strain, is very strong. The external part, which is attached to the proximal end of the fifth metatarsal bone, is also very strong. Near the distal ends of the metatarsal bones, the central part divides into five portions; each of these subdivides into two slips, which embrace the corresponding flexor tendons, and are attached to the metatarsal bones and their connecting ligaments. Between the primary divisions of the fascia—that is, in a line between the toes—are seen the digital vessels and nerves. In the interdigital folds of the skin, there are also ligamentous fibres, which run from one side of the foot to the other, and answer the same purpose as those in the hand (p. 257). The plantar fascia must be partially removed to examine the muscles. Towards the os calcis its removal is not accomplished without some difficulty, because the muscles arise from it. After the removal of the fascia three muscles are Superficial g^posed. All arise from the OS calcis and the fascia, MUSCLES. proceed forwaxds to the toes.* The central one is the flexor brevis digitorum, the two lateral are the abductor poUicis, and the abductor minimi digiti. This muscle arises from the inner and back part of Abductor ca,]cis, from the plantar fascia, and the internal poUicis. ^^^^i^j. ligament. Its origin arches over the plantar vessels and nerves in their passage to the sole. The fibres run along the inner side of the sole, and terminate on a tendon which is inserted into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, through the medium of the internal sesamoid bone. Its nerve comes from the internal plantar. » They ave separated from each otlierby strong perpendicular partitions-intermus- cular septa—wliich pass in from the plantar fascia.