330 POSITION OF ABDOMINAL VISCERA. projects beneath the cartilage of the ninth rib. This is important practically. It sometimes happens that the gall-bladder, in conse- quence of some obstruction to its duct,becomes unusually distended, and occasions a swelling below the margin of the ribs, which might be mistaken for an hepatic abscess.* The close proximity of the gall-bladder to the duodenum and the transverse colon explains the occasional evacuation of gall-stones by ulceration into the in- testinal canal, f The spleen is deeply situated in the left hypo- The spleen, ^^^qj^^j^-^^jq^ between the stomach and the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. Its outer surface is smooth and convex, to correspond with the diaphragm and the ribs; its inner surface, where its great vessels enter, is concave and connected to the great end of the stomach by a peritoneal fold called the ' gastro- splenic omentum: Generally, too, the spleen is connected by a small peritoneal fold, the sus^jensory ligament, to the under aspect of the diaphragm.^ This is the salivary gland of the abdomen. It lies Pancreas. j^gi^iQ^j the stomach, transversely across the spine, about the level of the first lumbar vertebra. Its right end or head is con- tained within the curve of the duodenum : its left end or tail extends as far as the spleen. The further connections and relations of the pancreas cannot in this stage of the dissection be satis- factorily seen. The kidneys are situated in the lumbar region, Kidneys. nearly opposite the two lower dorsal and the two upper lumbar vertebrae; the right being a little lower than the left. They lie imbedded in fat, partly upon the quadratus lumborum, partly upon the psoas. In contact with the right kidney, we have the liver, the second part of the duodenum, and the ascending colon; in contact with the left, are the spleen, the end of the pancreas, and the descending colon. * See cases in point recorfed by Andral, Clin. MW. torn. iv.; and Graves, Dublin Hospital Keport, vol. iv. t See preparations in the Museum, Ser. 16, No. 84. X Every now and then we find in the gastro-splenic omentum one or more little spleens in addition to the large one.