DISSECTION OP THE TESTIS. 585 The absorbents of the testicle terminate in the lumbar glands; hence these glands become affected in malignant disease of the testicles. Tlie nerves of the testicle are derived from the sympathetic. They run down from the abdomen with the spermatic arteries (p. 356). This accounts for the stomach and intestines sympa- thising so readily with the testicle, and for the constitutional effects of an injury to it. The testicle is originally developed in the lumbar: thTtestides immediately below the kidneys; and it is loosely. attached to the back of the abdomen by a fold of peritoneum, termed the ' mesorc/iium,^ along which its vessels and nerves run up to it, as to any other abdominal viscus. From the lower end of the gland there proceeds to the bottom of the scrotum, a contractile cord termed the ' gubemaculum testis.''* By the gradual contraction of this, the organ is brought into the scrotum. It begins to slide down from the loins about the fifth month, reaches the ring abou.t the seventh, and about the ninth has entered the scrotum. Its original peritoneal coat is retained throughout; but, as it enters the inguinal canal, the peritoneal lining of the abdomen is pouched out before it, and eventually becomes the tunica vaginalis reflexa. Immediately after the descent of the testis, its serous bag communicates with the abdo- men, and in the lower animals continues to do so through life.f But in the human subject the canal of communication soon begins to close. It begins to close at the top first, and the closure is generally complete in a child born at its full time.J The final * Mr. Ciirling considers the gubernaculum testis to be a muscular cord. See liis Observations on tbe Structure of the Gubernaculum, and on the Descent of the Testis in the Fcetus: Medical Gazette, April 10, 1841. t According to Professor Owen, the African orang outan (Simia troglodytes) is the only exception to this rule. In this animal it is interesting to observe that the lower extremities are more fully developed as organs of support, and there is a ligamentum teres in the hip-joint. \ According to Camper, the canal on the right side is nearly always open at birth, whereas that on the left is nearly always closed. This fact explains the greater frequency of hernia on the right side in children under one year old. Tlius out of