153 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. that a number of veins ramify and communicate in all directions. They constitute the 'pharyngeal venous plexus,' and terminate in the internal jugular. Constrictor They are three in number, and arranged so that they muscles of overlap each other—i.e. the inferior overlaps the the pharynx. ^^^^^^^ ^^xe middle the superior (fig. 32). They have the same attachments on both sides of the body; and the fibres from the right and left meet together, and are inserted in the mesial line, the insertion being marked by a white longitudinal line called the ' raphe.' The inferior constrictor arises from the side of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. Its fibres expand over the lower part of the pharynx. The superior fibres ascend ; the middle run transversely; the inferior descend, and are identified with the oesophagus. Be- neath its lower border the recurrent laryngeal nerve enters the larynx. The middle constrictor anses from tlie upper edge of the greater cornu of the os-byoides, from its lesser cornu, and part of the stylo-hyoid ligament. Its fibres take different directions, so that with those of the opposite muscle they form a lozenge. The lower angle of the lozenge is covered by the inferior constrictor ; the upper angle ascends nearly to the basilar process of the occi- pital bone, and terminates upon the pharyngeal aponeurosis. The external surface of the muscle is covered at its origin by the hyo-glossus. Between the middle and inferior constrictors, the superior laryngeal artery and nerve perforate the thyro-hyoid membrane to supply the larynx. The siiperior constrictor arises from the hamular process of tlie sphenoid bone, and from the lower part of its internal ptery- goid plate; from the pterygo-maxillary ligament (which connects it with the buccinator); from the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, and from the side of the tongue. The fibres pass backwards to the mesial line : some of them are inserted through the medium of the pharyngeal aponeurosis into the basilar process. The upper border of the superior constrictor presents on either