ELBOW-JOINT. 298 inseparably united, and is fixed into the greater tuberosity of the humerus. Open the capsule to see the tendon of the long bead of the biceps. It enters the joint through the groove between the two tuberosities, becomes slightly flattened, and passes over the head of the bone to be attached to the upper border of the glenoid cavity. It is loose and movable within the joint; and it acts like a strap, keeping down the head of the bone. The tendon of the biceps does not perforate the synovial mem- brane of the joint. It is inclosed in a tubular sheath, which is reflected over it at its attachment to the glenoid cavity, and accompanies it for two inches down the groove of the humerus. During the earlier part of foetal life it is connected to the capsule by a fold of synovial membrane, which subsequently disappears. The margin of the glenoid cavity of the scapula is surrounded by a fibro-cartilaginous band of considerable thickness, called the glenoid ligament. This not only enlarges but deepens the cavity. Superiorly, it is continuous on either side with the tendon of the biceps; inferiorly, with the tendon of the triceps : in the rest of its circumference it is attached to the edge of the cavity. The cartilage covering the head of the humerus is thicker at the centre than at the circumference. The reverse is the case in the glenoid cavity. The synovial membrane lining the under surface of the capsule is reflected around the tendon of the biceps, and passes with it in the form of a cul-de-sac, down the bicipital groove. On the inner side of the joint it always communicates with the bursa beneath the tendon of the subscapularis. The shoulder-joint has a more extensive range of motion than any other joint in the body; it is, in fact, a universal joint. It is capable of motion forwards and backwards; of adduction, abduction, circumduction, and rotation. The elbow-joint is a perfect hinge. The larger sig- Elbow- ^qJ^ cavity of the ulna is adapted to the trochlea upon the lower end of the humerus, admitting of simple flexion and extension; while the shallow excavation upon the head