574 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. Muscles of ^^^^^ the membrane of tlie tympanum. The ' tensor THE TTMPA- tym.pani' runs in the canal above and parallel to the Eustachian tube, from the cartilaginous part of which it arises. It passes backwards, and terminates in a round tendon, which enters the fore part of the tympanum through a special bony canal, and is inserted into the root of the handle of the malleus. Its nerve comes from the otic ganglion. Its action is to draw the membrana tympani inwards, and thus render it tense. The ' laxator tympani' arises from the spine of the sphenoid, and is inserted into the long process of the malleus. It is supplied by a branch from the facial nerve. Its action is to relax the mem- brana tympani. The 'stapedius' arises from a tube in the pyramid,* and its tendon is inserted into the neck of the stapes. Its nerve is derived from the facial. Its precise use is not thoroughly understood. A branch of the portic dura (chorda tympani) enters ^pani tympanum through a foramen at the base of the pyramid; it then crosses the tympanum between the handle of the malleus and the long process of the incus (see p. 195), and leaves the tympanum through a canal {canal of Huguier), which runs close to the Glasserian fissure. The tympanum is supplied with blood, 1, by the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary, which runs in through the fissura Grlasseri; 2, by the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular ; 3, by small branches which enter with the Eustachian tube; 4, by branches from the internal carotid artery; and, 5, by the petrosal branch of the arteria meningea media. This, in consequence of its complexity, is appropri- Intebnal ately termed *the labyrinth.' It consists of cavities EAR. excavated in the most compact part of the temporal bone. These cavities are divided into three—a middle one, called ' the vestibule,' as being a centre in which all communicate with each other; an anterior, named, from its resemblance to a * There is a little sheath, lined by sj'novial meniLrane to facilitate the play of the tendon in the pyramid.