255 DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF THE HAND. very centre; though usually of small size, it may be as large as the ulnar artery itself, and in such cases passes under the annular ligament with the nerve to join the palmar arch. Tliis is interest- ing, because it helps to explain the recurrence of haemorrhage from a wound in the palm, even after the radial and ulnar arteries have been tied. The anterior interosseous artery also gives off branches to the muscles on either side, and the nutrient arteries, which enter the radius and ulna from below upwards, near the centre of the fore- arm, to supply the medullary membrane. Anterior ^^^^ ^^^"^^ ^ branch of the median ; it is close to interosseous the artery, supplies the flexor longus pollicis, half the flexor profundus digitorum, and the pronator quadratus. DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF THE HAND. Make a vertical incision along the centre of the palm, and a transverse one along the bases of the fingers; from this transverse cut continue vertical incisions along the front of the fingers, and reflect the skin; taking care not to remove a small cutaneous muscle—the palmaris brevis—situated near the ball of the little finger, and also two small cutaneous branches of the median and ulnar nerves, which are found in the fat of the palm. Observe how closely, in the centre of the palm, the skin adheres to the palmar fascia beneath it. On the ball of the little finger and the distal ends of the metacarpal bones, the subcutaneous structure is composed of a dense filamentous tissue, which con- tains numerous pellets of fat, forming a kind of elastic pad. A similar padding protects the palmar surfaces of the fingers. These cushions on the ends of the fingers defend them in the powerful actions of the hand; they are also useful in subservience to the nerves of touch. The palm is supplied with nerves by two small branches—one, the palmar branch of the median, passes in front of the anterior annular ligament to the centre of the palm; the other, a branch of the ulnar, supplies the inner aspect of the hand.