80 NKUVKS OF THE FACi:. petrous portion of the temporal bone, and leaves the skull at the stylo-niastoid foramen. Its course and connections in the tem- poral bone will be investigated hereafter: at present we must trace the facial part of the nerve. Having emerged from the stylo-mastoid foramen, the nerve enters the parotid gland, and soon divides into two primary branches, named, from their distribution, temporo-facial and cervico-faciaL. These primary branches cross over the external carotid, and the external jugular vein, and form, by their com- munications within the substance of the parotid, the plexus called ' pes anserinus,' from its resemblance to the skeleton of a goose's foot. The plexus and the direction of its ramifications must be carefully made out, for you may have to remove tumours formed in the interior of the parotid; you may find the nerves spread over the tumour, and you must dissect between the nerves without iujuring them. Close to the stylo-mastoid foramen, the facial nerve sends off its posterior auricular branch (p. 3), which ascends behind the ear and supplies the retrahens and attollens aurem m. and the pos- terior belly of the occipito-frontalis; it also gives off a branch to the posterior belly of the digastricus and another to the stylo- hyoideus. In this situation it communicates by filaments with the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and auriculo-parotidean nerves. The temporo-facial division crosses the external carotid and the neck of the jaw, receives two or more communications from the temporo-auricular (branch of the fifth), and subdivides into tem- poral, malar, and infra-orbital branches. The temporal branches ascend over the zygoma, supply the frontalis, the attrahens aurem, the orbicularis palpebrarum, the corrugator supercilii, and tensor tarsi, and communicate with fila- ments of the supra-orbital nerve. The malar branches cross the malar bone, supply the orbicularis oculi, and communicate with filaments of the lacrymal and superior maxillarv nerves. The inf ra-orbital branches proceed transversely forwards beneath