SPINAL CORD. 551 longata by a branch from the vertebral of each side, and then runs down the cord, receiving, through the intervertebral foramina, numerous branches in its course from the vertebral, ascending cervical, intercostal, and lumbar arteries; 2, the fostenov spinal arteries, which proceed also from the vertebral, intercostal, and lumbar arteries, and ramify very irregularly on the back of the cord. On the posterior part of the bodies of the vertebrae, the spinal arteries of opposite sides communicate by numerous transverse branches along the entire length of the spine, thus resembling the arrangement of its venous plexuses. Punctions of '^^^ anterior columns consist exclusively of motor the columns fibres which originate from the grey matter of the brain ■ or that of the spinal cord, and carry the commands of the will and the power of reflex movement to the muscles. The posterior columns consist exclusively of sensitive fibres, which carry sensations, not, as was formerly believed, direct to the brain, but to the grey matter of the cord, through which alone, according to the recent experiments of Brown Sequard,* they are transmitted to the brain. The same experimentalist has also proved another unexpected fact—that sensations do not run up on the same side, but on the opposite. They cross in the cord; for instance, if the posterior column on the right side were injured, the left leg and not the right would be deprived of sensation. In the interior of the grey matter of the upper part of the spinal cord may be seen a central canal, the remains of the primordial canal of foetal life, which extends through the whole length of the cord. These are among the most complicate parts of oBLor'^""'"''^ central nervous system. They contain white pons'VAEOL^r grey matter,t intermixed. The white matter consists in part of a continuation of the lono-i- * See an able article on Brown Shard's experiments in the British and Forei-n Medico-Chirurgical Review by Mr. Thomas Smith. ° t The grey matter in the medulla oblongata is collected in three situations-! In the olives; 2. In the re.stiform tracts; 3. On the floor of the fourth ventricle