ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. 315 pubes and the umbilicus. It is said to be of use in tightenino- the linea alba, but it does not appear to have any special purpose in the human subject, for it is sometimes deficient on one or even both sides. Linea'ilba Along the middle line of the abdomen the several aponeuroses decussate so as to form a white tendinous line extending from the sternum to the pubes. This is the ' linea alba:' it is but a continuation of the sternum deprived of its earthy matter, in adaptation to the functions of this part of the body. A little below the middle of it, is situated what was in the foetus the opening for the passage of the umbilical vessels. After birth, the vessels being no longer required, the opening gradually closes, and becomes plugged by their fibrous remains. Since the linea alba is the thinnest part of the abdomen, and is free from blood vessels, it is chosen as a safe line for tapping in dropsy, and for puncturing the bladder in retention of urine. By dividing the rectus transversely near the umbilicus, and raising it from its position, we have a complete view of the manner in which the sheath is formed; we observe, too, that this is verv mdistmct behind the lower fourth of the muscle. Eamifying in the substance of the muscle is a large artery, called the ' epigastric ' a branch of the external iliac ; also the continuation of the internal mammary, which descends from the subclavian. Nerves of the ^'tiese nerves are the continuations of the six lower abdominal intercostal nerves, and of the first lumbar. They have the same general course and distribution. They run forwards between the internal oblique and transversalis towards the rectus. They furnish branches to the abdominal muscles, and each gives off its lateral and anterior cutaneous branches' described p. 311. ' Action of the consequence of their stratified arrangement, and itts"' direction of their fibres, the abdomiual muscles answer many important purposes:—!. The abdominal muscles maintain a gentle but effective pressure upon the viscera, and serve to shield them from iujury. The pressure is proved by the fact that the bowels are almost sure to protrude