3,51 PHRENIC ARTERIES. receptaculum chyli, or the beginning of the thoracic duct (p. 122). This is usually found on the right of the aorta, close to the second lumbar vertebra. Eelations of "^^^ ^^^'^^ enters the abdomen between the crura of the abdomi- the diaphragm about the last dorsal vertebra, and nal aorta. descends a little to the left side of the mesial line in front of the spine, as low as the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it divides into the two common iliac arteries. The exact point of division cannot be specified with precision, because it varies in diiferent subjects. But for all practical purposes it is sufficient to know that its division takes place about the level of the highest point of the crest of the ilium. The aorta is crossed in front by the splenic vein, the pancreas, the transverse por- tion of the duodenum, and the left renal vein. To the right side of it lie the vena cava inferior, the thoracic duct, and the vena azygos. On each side are situated the sympathetic nerves. The branches of the aorta still to be examined, arise from it in pairs—namely, the phrenic, capsular, renal, spermatic, and lumbar. See diagram (p. 335). Phreni ^^^^'^ arteries supply the diaphragm, and arise arteries. separately, or by a common trunk, from the aorta as soon as it comes through the pillars (p. 345). The right phrenic passes outwards, behind the vena cava, the left behind the oesophagus, and both ascend to ramify extensively on the under aspect of the diaphragm. Their first branches are to the supra- renal capsules; after which, each divides into two branches: an internal, which supplies the anterior part of the diaphragm; and an external, distributed to the outer part of it. They inosculate with each other, with the internal mammary, and the intercostal arteries. The right phrenic vein terminates in the inferior vena cava; the left, in the renal vein, when not in the vena cava. The capsular arteries proceed to the renal capsules. The capsular veins terminate on the right side in the vena cava: on the left in the renal.