PLEURA. 118 of the impulse of the heart. Inspiration and expiration also alter the position of the heart. In inspiration the heart descends with the tendinous centre of the diaphragm ahout half an inch. As the lungs are continually gliding to and fro, within Pleura. chest, they are provided with a serous membrane to facilitate their motion. This membrane is termed the pleura. There is one for each lung. Each pleura forms a completely closed sac, and is disposed like all other serous sacs; that is, one part of the sac lines the containing cavity, the other is reflected over the contained organ. Its several parts are named after the surface to which they adhere : that which lines the ribs is called ' pleura costalis ;' that which forms the mediastinum, ' pleura mediastinalis;' that which covers the lung, ' pleura pulmonalis.' Unlike the peritoneum, the pleura forms no folds except a small one called ' ligamentum latum pulmonis,' which extends from the root of the lung to the diaphragm. If asked to describe the reflections of the pleural sac (fig. 19, p.l05), I should say, that it lines the ribs and part of the sternum ; from the sternum it is reflected backwards over the pericardium; from thence it passes over the front of the root of the lung, and so on over the entire lung to the back part of its root, whence it is reflected over the sides of the vertebrae, and thus reaches the ribs again The spaces called ' anterior' and ' posterior' mediastina, formed by the pleurse, have been already described, p. 104. In health the internal surface of the pleura is smooth, polished, and lubricated by moisture sufficient to facilitate the sliding of the lung. When this surface is thickened and roughened by inflammation, the moving lung produces a 'friction' sound. When the pleural sac is distended by serum, it constitutes hydro- thorax ; when by pus, ' empyema;' and when by air, ' pneumo- thorax.' Introduce your hand into the pleural sac, and ascertain that the reflection of the pleura on to the diaphragm corresponds with an imaginary line commencing at the lower part of the sternum, and sloping along the cartilages of the successive ribs down to the