ARCH OF THE AOKTA. 109 but on a posterior plane, descends the superior vena cava; on its left is the division of the pulmonary artery; behind it, are part of the auricle, the right pulmonary artery, and the right bronchus. This part of the aorta gives off the right and left coronary arteries for the supply of the heart. Transverse portion.—This portion of the aorta arches from the front to the back of the thorax, and extends from the upper border of the second right costal cartilage to the left side of the second dorsal vertebra. In front it is covered by the left pleura, and is crossed by the left phrenic and pneumogastric nerves. Near its summit runs the left brachio-cephalic vein; v?ithin its concavity are the left bronchus, the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, and the remains of the ductus arteriosus. The artery rests upon the trachea a little above its bifurcation, the oesophagus, thoracic duct, and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. From the transverse part of the arch arise the arteria innominata, the left carotid, and subclavian arteries. Descending portion.—This part of the arch lies upon the left side of the body of the third dorsal vertebra. On its right side are the oesophagus and thoracic duct; on its left is the pleura. What parts are contained within the arch of the aorta ? The left bronchus, the right pulmonary artery, the left recurrent nerve, the remains of the ductus arteriosus, and the deep cardiac plexus. These relations vary according to the size of the ^e^archof^ heart, the obliquity of the ribs, and the general de- the aorta to yelopment of the chest. In a well-formed adult the ascending aorta is, at the most prominent part of its bulge, about half of an inch behind the first bone of the sternum. The highest part of the arch is about one inch below the upper edge of the sternum.* * The relations of the arch of the aorta to the sternum vary even in adults, more especially if there be any hypertrophy of the heart. As an instance among many, I may mention that of a young female who died of phthisis. The position of the aortic valves was opposite the middle of the sterniun, on a level with the middle of the