STKUCTUEE OF THK SMALL INTESTINES. hexagonal pits or alveoli, giving it a honey-comb appearance. The pits vary from the ^-L^th to ^-J-^jth of an inch in diameter. At the bottom of them are a number of minute pores, the orifices of the gastric tubes. In a perpendicular section, the tubes are arranged in parallel lines at right angles to the surface, and terminate in blind sacculated ends set in the submucous tissue. The entire thickness of the mucous membrane is made up of these tubular glands. The tubules are on an average about -jLth of an inch long. In the cardiac end they are simple tubes, but at the pyloric end they are frequently branched. Their upper fourth is lined with columnar epithelium, their lower three-fourths, with spheroidal or glandular. It is presumed that these glandular cells contain the gastric juice. As fast as formed, during digestion, they pass into the stomach, discharge their contents, and disappear. Other glands—lenticular—may be found near the pyloric end of the stomach, and resemble Peyer's glands. The mucous membrane of the stomach, and also of the upper part of the interior of the tubes, is lined by a columnar epithe- lium. It is exceedingly thin and delicate, and can only be seen in the stomach .of an animal recently killed. The tubes of the stomach are richly supplied with blood. The ai-teries form a stratum of minute inosculations in the submucous- tissue, in which the closed ends of the tubes are set; from this stratum the vessels run up between the tubes to the surface of the stomach, where they again inosculate, and form the hexagonal spaces before alluded to. The stomach is supplied with nerves from the pneumocastric and from the solar plexus. * Small . .^^^ '"^^^^ intestines, consisting of the duodenum, intestines. J^Junum, and ileum, form a tube from sixteen to twenty A ^ T ^^""^^^ according to the height of the indivi- dual. The duodenum is about twelve inches in length: the ieiu num comprises two-fifths, the ileum three-fifths of the remaining part of the small intestine. As regards their external character^ the rluodenum and jejunum are more vascular than the ileum and feel thicker m consequence of the peculiar arrangement of F F