415 CONTENTS OF FEMALE PELVJ8. Structure of ^'^^^ uterus, vagina, ovaries, and Fallopian tubes the vagina, should now be Collectively removed from the pelvis ovS, and purpose of examining their internal structure. Fallopiiui The vagina having already been laid open (p. 412), we tubes. observe that it is lined by a mucous membrane of a pale rose colour; and that it is rough and furrowed, especially near the orifice. A more or less prominent ridge runs along its anterior; another, along its posterior wall. From either side of these, called ' columnce rugarum,'' proceed a series of transverse ridges with rough, jagged margins directed forwards. They are well marked in virgins, but repeated parturition and increasino- age gradually smooth them down. The use of the vaginal rugae is to excite the sensibility of the glans in coition. They them- selves also possess keen sensibility, being richly endowed with papillae. The mucous membrane has a thick lining of squamous epithe- lium, and in the submucous tissue is an abundant supply of mucipa- rous glands, which increase in number and size towards the uterus. The chief strength of the vagina depends upon a fibro-cellular coat, about one-twelth of an inch in thickness. If this coat be minutely injected, we find that it is composed mainly of the inos- culations of blood vessels, so much so, that by some it is regarded as erectile tissue. In this coat, muscular fibres, longitudinal and circular, have been demonstrated. The orifice of the vagina is surrounded by a circular muscle, called ^sphincter vagince' (p. 407). Uterus. Before the uterus is laid open, examine the shape of that portion of the neck which projects into the vagina. The back part of the cervix appears to project into the vagina more than the front; but this arises from the vagina being attached higher up behind it. If the vagina were cut away from the cervix, the anterior lip of the uterus would appear to project a trifle more than the posterior. For this reason, as well as on account of the natural slope forwards of the uterus, the front lip is always felt first in an examination per vaginam.* The length, * This is the only way to reconcile the discrepancies one meets with in anatomical works, respecting the comparative length of the lips of the uterus. Kraus, Weber,