SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 37 the anterior bellj. The objects we have to examine in this triangle are twelve in number, as follow:— 1. Submaxillary gland. 7. Stylo-maxillary ligament. 2. Facial vein, 8. Part of the parotid gland. 3. Facial artery. 9. Part of the external carotid artery. 4. Submental artery. 10. Mylo-hyoideiis muscle. 6. Mylo-hyoidefin nerve. 11. Hypoglossal nerve. 6. Submaxillary absorbent glands. 12. Part of the hyo-glossus muscle. Submaxillary Ordinary position of the bead, the sub- salivary maxillary gland is partially concealed by the jaw, gland. -^^^^ when the bead falls back the gland is more ex- posed. It is about the size of a chestnut, and is divided into several lobes. Its upper margin is covered by the body of the jaw; its lower margin overlaps tha side of the os-hyoides. Its cutaneous surface is flat, but the lobes on its deep surface are irregular, and often continuous with those of the sublingual gland. By raising the gland we find that it lies upon the mylo-hyoideus, the hyo-glossus, the stylo-glossus, the tendon of the digastricus, and a portion of the hypoglossal nerve, seen above the tendon. The facial artery lies in a groove on its upper border; and it is separated from the parotid gland, wbich is situated behind it, by the stylo-maxillary ligament. Mark these relations well, because they are of importance, as we shall presently explain, in tying the lingual artery. The duct of the gland (Wharton's duct *) passes from its under surface, runs forwards under the mylo-hyoideus and upon the hyo-glossus muscle; it then passes beneath the gustatory nerve, and subsequently runs between the sublingual gland and the genio-hyo-glossus, to open into the floor of the mouth, by the side of the frsenum linguae. Its length is about two inches ; its dimen- sions are not equal throughout, for it is dilated about the middle, and contracted at the orifice. Saliva, collected in the dilated portion, is sometimes spirted to a considerable distance out of the * Thorn. Wharton, Adenographia, seu glandularum totius corporis descriptio. 12mo. Arastel., 1659.