576 DISSECTION OV THE EAR. ^ J J The cochlea is the most anterior part of the internal ear: it very closely resembles a common snail's shell, and is placed so that the base of the shell corresponds to the bottom of the meatus auditorius intcrnus, while the apex is directed forwards and outwards. It consists of the spiral convolu- tions of two parallel and gradually tapering tubes, which wind round a central pillar, called the ' modiolus.^ The partition by which the tubes are separated is termed the ' lamina sjAraiis.^ In the dry bones this partition is only partial; but, in the recent state, it is completed by a membrane. At the apex of the cochlea [helicotrevia) the partition is altogether absent, so that here the tubes communicate with each other. These tubes are called the scales of the cochlea, and are filled with fluid. The upper one opens into the vestibule, and is thei'efore called the vestibular scale; the lower one leads to the membrane which closes the fora- men rotundum of the tympanum, and is termed the tympanic scale. If unwound, they would be about 1^ inch long. Each makes two turns and a half round the central pillar, from left to right in the right ear, and vice versa in the left. The central pillar of the cochlea is called the ' modiolus.' It is of considerable thickness at the base, but gradually tapers towards the apex. Its interior is traversed by numerous canals, for the purpose of transmitting the filaments of the auditory nerve. One of these canals, larger than the others, runs down the centre of the modiolus nearly to the apex, and transmits a small artery, the ' arteria centralis modioli.^ The lamina spiralis—the partition between the two tubes or scales of the cochlea—is made up, on the inner half, of bone, on the outer half, of membrane. The bony part has a number of minute canals in it, which come off at right angles from the modi- olus. They are for the lodgment of the filaments of the auditory nerve in their course to the membranous part, which is the most important element of the cochlea, since it receives the undulations of the fluid in the interior.* * There is an extremely delicate little muscle, termed tlio ' cochlearis,' for the purpose of tiglitr-ning or relaxing, according to circumstances, the membranous part