194 POllTIO DURA. petrous bone to the otic ganglion. This tympanic branch is thus distributed to the mucous membrane of the tympanum and the Eustachian tube, and it communicates with the spheno-palatine ganglion through the great petrosal nerve, and with the otic ganglion through the lesser petrosal. Pneximo- "^^^^ nerve leaves the cranium with the nervus acces- gastric sorius, through a canal in the dura mater behind that nerve. ^-^^ glosso-pharyngeal.. At its entrance into the canal it is composed of a number of separate filaments; but in the foramen jugulare, these soon become imbedded in a small ganglion—the ganglion of the root of the pneumogastric. This ganglion, first described by Arnold,* is about J^th of an inch in diameter. It is connected by filaments to the sympathetic, to the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal, to the spinal accessory and the facial nerves. But its most singular branch is one named by Arnold ' the auricular,'' because it is distributed to the pinna of the ear. This branch enters a minute foramen in the jugular fossa, near the styloid process, and then proceeds through the substance of the bone to the aqueductus Fallopii, where it divides into two branches; one joins the facial nerve, the other passes to the outside of the head through a canal between the front of the mastoid process and the meatus auditorius, and is distributed to the cartilage of the ear, and the meatus auditorius. Immediately below this its first ganglion the pneumogastric nerve is joined by two branches from the nervus accessorius, and consequently becomes after this junction a compound nerve. The ganglion of the trunk, or inferior ganglion of this nerve below the base of the skull, has been already examined (p. 97). The portio dura or facial nerve, having arrived at Siroiigh the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus, enters the temporal ' aqucductus FallopH.^ This is a tortuous canal ex- ^"'^^^ cavated through the substance of the temporal bone, and terminating at the stylo-mastoid foramen. When exposed throughout its whole course, we observe that the nerve proceeds * Der Kopftheil. dcs veget. Nerven Systems. Heidelberg, 1831. t Fallopius was a distinguished Italian anatomist and professor at Paris, 1551.