POSITION OF ABDOMINAL VISCERA. 325 Changes pro- Whoever has the opportunity of dissecting an old duced by aa hernia, of some size, will observe that the obliquity hernif inguinal canal is destroyed. The constant dragging of the protruded viscera gradually brings the internal ring nearer to the external, so that at last the one gets quite behind the other, and there is a direct opening into the abdomen. But the position of the epigastric artery with regard to the sac remains unaltered. It is still on the inner side of the neck of the sac. In hernia of long standing, all its coverings undergo a change. They become thickened and hypertrophied to such an extent, and so altered from what they once were, that they scarcely look like the same parts. Expose the contents of the abdomen, by an incision from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes a little to the left side of the linea alba, so as to preserve a ligament, ' ligaraentum teres,' which passes from the umbilicus to the liver, and also a cord, ' the urachus,' which ascends in the middle line from the bladder to the umbilicus; then make another incision transversely on a level with the umbilicus, and turn the flaps outwards. Urachus. ^^^^^^ surface of the lower right flap, the peritoneum is raised into a fold by a fibrous cord, passing from the bladder to the umbilicus ; this is the ' urachus} which in foetal life is a tube connecting the bladder with the allantois. On either side of the urachus are two other folds in- closing cords which ascend obliquely towards the umbilicus: these are the impervious remains of the umbilical arteries. Take now a survey of the viscera before they are disturbed from their relative positions. What is seen ^^S^^ hypochondrium the liver is seen project- Kbdimen '^^^^ ^^^^ Cartilages of the ribs, and omen. fundus of the gall-bladder below the edge of the liver, near the end of the ninth costal cartilage. In the left hypo- chondrium is seen more or less of the stomach. Across the umbilical region extends a broad fold of the peritoneum containing fat, the great omentum, which descends from the lower border of