CERVICAL FASCIA, 19 along the axillary vessels and nerves into the axilla. Above it is attached to the angle of the lower jaw, from which it extends backwards to the styloid process, and forms the 'stylo-maxillary' ligament. Thence it is attached to the base of the skull, the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and the basilar process of the occipital bone. A correct knowledge of the attachments of the principal layers of the cervical fascia is essential to a right understanding of the course which pus takes when it forms in the neck. For instance, suppose the pus to be formed at the lower part of the neck. If it be seated immediately under the superficial layer (which is attached to the clavicle), it may burrow beneath the clavicle into the axilla. But if it be seated beneath the deep layer (which is attached to the first rib), then it becomes a more serious affair, since the pus may readily travel through the loose tissue by the side of the pharynx, and make its way into the chest, where it will probably burrow down the anterior or the posterior mediastinum, and burst into the trachea or the oesophagus. Besides forming sheaths for the several structures of the neck, there are other purposes to which the cervical fascia is subservient. The firm attachment of its layers to the sternum, the first rib, and the clavicle, forms a fibrous barrier at the upper opening of the chest, which supports the soft parts, and prevents their yielding to the pressure of the atmosphere during inspiration. Dr. Allan Burns* first pointed out this important function of the cervical fascia, and has recorded a case exemplifying the results of its de- struction by disease. Moreover, the great veins at the root of the neck, namely, the internal jugular, subclavian, and innominate, are so closely iinited by the cervical fascia to the adjacent bones and muscles, that when divided they gape. They are, as the French express it, * canalisees,' and are therefore better able to resist the pressure of the atmosphere, which tends to render them flaccid and imper- vious during inspiration. But this anatomical disposition of the * Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck. C 2