ARCH OF THE AORTA. 108 overlapped by the ascending aorta, which lies to its left side and parallel with it. In the npper half of its course, that is, above the pericardium, it is covered on its right side by the pleura; on this side, in contact with it, descends the phrenic nerve. Before it is covered by the pericardium, the vena cava receives the right vena azygos, which comes in arching over the right bronchus. ^ ^ The aorta is the great trunk from which all the relations of arteries of the body carrying pure blood are derived, the arch of arises from the upper and back part of the left ven- tricle of the heart. Its origin is situated behind the pulmonary artery and on the left side of the sternum, about the level of the third intercostal space. It ascends forwards and to the right as high as the first intercostal space on the right side; it then curves backwards towards the left side of the body of the second dorsal vertebra, and turning downwards over the left side of the third, completes the arch. The direction of the arch, therefore, is from the sternum to the spine, and rather oblique from right to left. The arch of the aorta presents partial dilatations in certain situations. One of these, called the ' sinus ' or bulge of the aorta, is observed on the right side of the arch, about the junction of the ascending with the transverse portion : it is little marked in the infant, but increases with age. Three other dilatations (the sinuses of Valsalva), one corresponding to each of the valves at the commencement of the aorta, will be examined hereafter. For convenience of description, the arch of the aorta is divided into an ascending, a transverse, and a descending portion. Ascending portion.—To see this portion of the aorta, the pericardium must be opened. You then observe that this part of the artery is covered all round by the serous layer of the peri- cardium, except where it is in contact with the pulmonary artery. It is about two inches in length, and ascends with a slight curve to the upper border of the second costal cartilage of the right side. Its commencement is covered by the pulmonary artery, and over- lapped by the appendix of the right auricle. On its right side,