FRONT OF THE THIGH. 456 Its chief use is to fix the pelvis steadily on the thigh, and also to rotate the thigh inwards; in this last action it co-operates with the anterior fibres of the glutseus medius, with which it is almost in- separably connected. Any one may convince himself of this by placing the hand on the hip, and rotating the thigh inwards. Both these muscles are supplied by the same nerve—the superior glutseal. To form an adequate idea of the strength, extent, and connec- tions of the aponeurosis on the outer side of the thigh, it should be separated from the vastus externus muscle upon which it lies. There is no difficulty in doing so, for it is united to the muscle by an abundance of loose cellular tissue.* With a little perseverance the aponeurosis can be traced to the linea aspera, the head of the tibia, and the fibula. See how completely it protects the outer side of the knee-joint. The powerful muscles situated between the tensor Extensor fascise on the outer and the adductors on the inner muscles. t r\ c ■< side, are extensors of the leg. One of them—the ' rectus '—arises from the pelvis ; the other—the ' triceps '—arises from the shaft of the thigh bone by three portions, called, respec- tively, the cruraeus, the vastus iuternus and externus. All are supplied by the anterior crural nerve. To see the origins of the rectus femoris, dissect between the origin of the sartorius and the tensor fascise; in doing so, avoid injuring the branches of the external circumflex artery. This muscle arises from the pelvis by two strong Eectus. tendons, which soon imite at an acute angle : one from the anterior inferior spine of the ileum, the other from the rough surface of the ileum, just above the acetabulum. The muscle descends perpendicularly down the front of the thigh, and is inserted into the common extensor tendon. The structure of this muscle is remarkable. A tendon runs down the centre, and the muscular fibres are implanted on either side of it, like tlie vane on the shaft of a feather. Its nerve comes from the anterior crural. * When this tissue becomes the seat of suppuration, the matter is apt to extend all down the outside of the thigh, not being able to make its way to the surface by reason of the dense fascia.