SPLEEN. 426 coats project very much into the interior, making the opening considerably narrower than it appears to be outside. In the cystic duct, the mucous membrane presents a series of folds, so arranged, one after the other, as to form a complete spiral valve. The pro- bable use of this is to prevent the too rapid flow of the bile. The gall-bladder appears to serve mainly as a reservoir for the bile, during the cessation of digestion. The bile becomes during its sojourn in the gall-bladder very viscid and intensely bitter. The spleen is a very vascular spongy organ, and be- Spleen. longs to the class of ductless glands. It varies in size according to the amount of blood in it, fluctuating in weight, consistently with health, between five and ten ounces. Usually it is of a reddish-blue colour, owing to the large amount of blood con- tained in it. It is more or less elliptical in shape, and in its natural position is placed with its long axis nearly vertical. Its outer surface, adapted to the diaphragm and ribs, is smooth and convex; its inner, adapted to the great end of the stomach, is concave, and divided into an anterior and a posterior portion by a vertical fissure—the hilus—at the bottom of which are large openings through which the vessels enter and emerge from the spleen. The spleen is invested with two coats, a peritoneal and a fibrous. The peritoneal coat entirely covers the organ, except at the hilus, from which it is reflected to the stomach, forming the gastro-splenic omentum. Its fibrous capsule covers the spleen, and is elastic, to accommodate itself to the varying size of the viscus. This coat is intimately connected with the splenic substance, and in it are said to be some involuntary muscular fibres. It sends down into the interior numerous bands—trabeculce—v/hich. cross each other in various directions, and form a network, dividing the spleen into many chambers. Besides constituting the general framework of the organ, the capsule at the hilus forms sheaths for the vessels, and supports them throughout their ramifications in the interior. The splenic chambers are filled with a soft, reddish-brown sub- stance, called the 'pulp' of the spleen. Under the microscope it is found to consist mainly of cells, of a pale red colour, somewhat smaller than the red corpuscles of the blood. Interspersed among