PNEUMOGASTRIC NEKVE. 97 passes out of the skull with the nervus accessorius through the foramen jugulare. Leaving the skull at the foramen jugulare, the nerve descends in front of the cervical vertebra, lying successively upon the rectus capitis anticus major and the longus colli. In the upper part of the neck it is situated behind the internal carotid artery; in the lower, between and behind the common carotid and the internal jugular vein. It enters the chest, on the right side crossing in front of the subclavian artery nearly at a right angle; on the left running nearly parallel with it. In their course through the chest, the pneumogastric nerves have not similar relations. The right nerve lies beneath the subclavian vein, and then descending by the side of the trachea, is continued behind the right bronchus to the posterior part of the oesophagus. The left nerve passes behind the left brachio- cephalic vein, then crosses in front of the arch of the aorta, and behind the left bronchus to the anterior part of the oesophagus. Both nerves subdivide on this tube into a plexus; the right nerve forming the posterior, and the left, the anterior oesophageal plexus. Each plexus again collects its fibres together: thus two main nerves are formed which pass with the oesophagus through the diaphragm: of these the right is distributed over the posterior, the left over the anterior surface of the stomach. In their long course from the medulla oblongata to the abdo- men, the pneumogastric nerves supply branches to most important organs; namely, to the pharynx, the larynx, the heart, the lungs, the oesophagus, and the stomach. Within the foramen jugulare, a small ganglion (Arnold's ganglion) is formed upon the pneumogastric nerve, which is then joined by a branch of considerable size from the nervus acces- sorius. Arnold's ganglion will be described hereafter. But soon after leaving the skull, the pneumogastric nerve swells out, and forms a second ganglion (inferior ganglion) of a reddish-grey colour. This ganglion occupies about an inch of the nerve, but does not involve the whole of its fibres; the branch from the spinal accessory not being included. It is united to the hypo- H