DISSECTION or TIIH EAU. 569 The lens protrudes directly the capsule is sufficiently opened. The lens is nourished by means of an extremely delicate layer of nucle- ated cells on its surface, which absorb nourishment from the cap- sule. Some anatomists speak of a layer of fluid (liqvior Morrjagni) as existing between the lens and its capsule; but no such fluid can be detected during life, and if there be any after death, it is, in all prohabilit}'-, imbibed by the capsule from the aq\ieous humour. The minute structui-e of the lens is very remarkable. fet"ruGtwe gelatinous in consistence outside, but grows gradu- ally denser towards the centre. After immersion in nitric acid, alcohol, or boiling water, it becomes hard and opaque. It may then be seen that it is divided into three equal parts, by three lines which radiate from the centre to within one-third of the circumference. Each of these portions is composed of hun- dreds of concentric layers, arranged one within the other, like the coats of an onion. If any single layer be examined with the microscope, we find that it is made up of fibres about yoVo^^ of inch in thickness, and connected together by finely serrated edges. This beautiful dovetaihng of the fibres of the lens was first pointed out by Sir David Brewster; and, to see it in perfection, one ought to take the lens of the common cod-fish. The use of the lens is to bring the rays of light to a focus upon the retina. DISSECTION OF THE OUGcA^ OF HEARING. The parts constituting the organ of hearing should be examined in the following order:—!. The outer cartilage or pinna; 2. The meatus auditorius externus; which leads to, 3. The tympanum or middle ear; and, 4. The labyrinth or internal ear, comprising the vestibule, cochlea, and semicircular canals. the membrana pupillaris of authors is nothing more than the anterior Layer of the capsule. In taking the eye to pieces, it is quite a matter of accident wliether the membrane adhere to the iris, or remain in its proper place in front of the lens. See Queketfs paper in the ' Transactions of the Microscopic Society of London,' vol iii