344 KIDNEYS AND URETER. Pancreas '^^""^ ^^^^^ salivary gland of the abdomen is situated immediately behind the stomach (p. 338). It is of an elongated form, and is placed transversely across the spine; its larger end, or head, is embraced by tlie duodenum; its lesser is in contact with the spleen. The splenic artery and vein run along the upper border of the gland; the lower border is in relation with the transverse portion of the duodenum, from which it is separated by the superior mesenteric vessels. Posteriorly the pancreas rests upon the inferior vena cava, the left kidney, the left supra-renal capsule, and the commencement of the vena portce. Its duct runs from left to right near the lower border and anterior surface of the gland, and empties itself into the back part of the descending portion of the duodenum, conjointly with, or close to, the opening of the common bile duct. It receives numerous branches from the splenic artery, which runs along its upper border; some from the superior mesenteric, which lies im- mediately beneath it, and others from the gastro-epiploica dextra. The liver, stomach, duodenum, pancreas, and spleen, should now be collectively removed. For this purpose it is necessary to cut through the ligaments of the Kver, the venae cav£e hepaticse, and the branches of the cseliac axis. These viscera, with the re- mainder of the intestinal canal, should be macerated in water, while you examine all that is to be seen at the back of the abdomen; namely, the deep-seated muscles, the aorta, the inferior vena cava, the kidneys, the lumbar plexus of nerves, and the sympa- thetic nerve. The kidneys are placed in the lumbar region, one on Se7' ^""^ each side of the spine. They lie imbedded in more or less fat, on the quadratus lumborum, and psoas muscles, nearly opposite the two lower dorsal and the two upper lumbar vertebrfB. On the top of each is situated a little body, called the supra-renal capsule. The excretory duct of the kidney, or ureter, descends almost vertically on the psoas muscle, enters the pelvis over the division of the common iliac artery, and empties itself into the lower part of tlie bladder after running obliquely through its coats.