PAKTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. 450 saying tbtit he never saw a strangulated femoral liernia where the warm bath was of any avail. -P, , From what has been said, the student ought now to Practical ap- . c 11 plication of understand—], at what pomt a femoral hernia escapes the subject. ^i^g abdomen ; 2, the course which it takes, and its relations to the surrounding parts; 3, the proper mode of at- tempting the reduction ; 4, the structure and arrangement of its coverings ; and, lastly, the probable seat of stricture. The hernia escapes from the abdoinen through the femoral ring —that is, under the weak part of the crural arch, between the femoral vein and Gimbernat'a ligament. Here is the mouth of the hernial sac, or that part of it which communicates with the abdo- men. It descends for a short distance nearly perpendicularly, and projects as a small tumour in front of the pectineus muscle. Its progress downwards, however, is soon arrested, partly by the very clos°e adhesion of the subcutaneous structures to the lower margin of the saphenous opening; partly by flexion of the thigh. Con- sequently, if the hernia increase in size, it must rise over the crural arch, where the subcutaneous tissue offers less resistance ; and the bulk of the hernia extends outwards towards the iHum, assuming more or less of an oblong form, with the long axis parallel to the crural arch. Since, then, the body of the hernia forms a very acute angle with the neck, the right mode of attempting its reduction is, to draw it first down from the groin, and then to make pressure on it backwards in the direction of the femoral ring. The coverings of a femoral hernia are as follow :— a°fImS °^ It first protrudes before it the peritoneum, technically hernia. ^^^^^ the hernial sac* The sac is covered by more or less fat according to the condition of the patient, called the sub- peritoneal fat. It next pushes before it the sheath of the femoral vessels, which forms an investment called the 'fascia propria: la front of this is the cribriform fascia. Lastly, there is the subcutaneous tissue and skin. The secot of stricture is usually at the femoral rmg, and the * In some cases the fascia propria so much resembles the hernial sac, that it is not easy to disting^iish between them. Generally speaking they are separated by a smaU quantity of fat.