278 MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. In the summer of 1840, a man was admitted into the hospital with a severe injury to the shoulder, and died of delirium tremens. On examination the humerus was found broken high up, the capsule of the joint opened, and the circumflex nerve torn com- pletely across.* The muscles of the dorsum of the scapula are covered by a strong aponeurosis, firmly attached to the spine and borders of the bone. At the posterior edge of the deltoid, it divides into two layers, one of which passes over, the other under, the muscle. Eemove the aponeurosis, so far as it can be done without injury to the muscular fibres which arise from its under surface. This muscle arises from the posterior two-thirds of spkatus infra-spinous fossa, and from the aponeurosis which covers it. The fibres converge to a tendon, which is at first contained in the substance of the muscle, and then proceeds over the capsule of the shoulder-joint to be inserted into the greater tuberosity of the humerus. Its nerve comes from the supra-scapular. This lona: narrow muscle is situated below the infra- spinatus, along the inferior border of the scapula. It arises from the dorsum of the scapula, close to the inferior border. The fibres ascend parallel with those of the infra-spinatus, and terminate in a tendon, which passes over the capsule of the shoulder-joint, and is inserted into the lowest depression on the great tuberosity of the humerus, and by muscular fibres into the bone below it. It is supplied by a branch of the circumflex nerve, which has usually a small ganglion upon it. The action of the infra-spinatus and teres minor is to rotate the humerus outwards. This muscle is closely connected with the latissimus Teres major. ^^^.^-^ extends from the inferior angle of the scapula to the humerus, contributing to form the posterior boundary of the axilla. It anses from the flat surface at the inferior angle of the back of the scapula, and from its inferior border, and terminates Teres minor, ^ * See preparation in Museum of St. BartholomeVs Hospital, series 3, no. 42.