251 DISSECTION OF THE ERONT OF THE FOIIEARM. the outer side of the radial artery, covered by the supinator radii longus. la the upper third of the forearm the nerve is at some distance from the artery ; in the middle third it approaches nearer to it; but in the lower third, the nerve leaves the artery, passes underneath the tendon of the supinator longus, perforates the fascia on the outer side of the forearm, and divides into two branches, which supply the back of the thumb, fore, and half the middle finger. This artery, the larger of the two divisions of the Ulnar artery. , i • i rv , ,i .in brachial, comes off at the middle of the elbow, runs obliquely inwards along the ulnar side of the forearm to the wrist,- passes over the annular ligament near the pisiform bone, and entering the palm, forms the superficial palmar arch, by inoscu- lating with the superficialis volee. In the upper half of its course the artery describes a gentle curve with the concavity towards the radius, and lies deep beneath the superficial layer of muscles, the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor sublimis digitorum. It is also crossed in its upper part by the median nerve. In the lower part of its course it descends between the flexor sub- limis and flexor carpi ulnaris, of which the tendon partially overlaps it at the wrist. The artery lies for a short distance on the brachialis anticus ; in the remainder of its course it lies on the flexor profundus digitorum. The ulnar nerve is at first separated from the artery by a consi- derable interval: but about the middle of the forearm it joins the artery, and accompanies it in the rest of its course, lying close to its inner side. Both pass over the anterior annular ligament of the carpus, lying close to the pisiform bone,—the nerve being nearer to the bone. A strong expansion from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris protects them in this, exposed situation. Observe particularly the depth of the ulnar artery under the many muscles which cover it in the upper third of its course. In the middle third it is partially overlapped by the flexor carpi ulnaris. In the lower third it lies under the radial border of the flexor carpi ulnaris, which is the proper guide to the vessel. The