MEDULLA OBLONGATA, 521 surface of each hemisphere is mapped out by tortuous eminences, termed 'gyri' or 'convolutions,'' separated from each other by deep furrows {sulci). Many of these furrows are occupied by the large veins in their course to the sinuses; others are filled by sub- arachnoid fluid. The convolutions themselves are merely folds of the brain, for the purpose of increasing the extent of the ■surface upon which may be laid grey or vesicular nerve substance, now generally admitted to be the source of power. They are not precisely alike on both sides. Their number, disposition, and depth vary a little in diflferent individuals, and, to a certain extent, may be considered as an index of the degree of intelligence.* Since this grey matter forms a sort of bark round the white brain substance, it is often called the cortical substance.f The depth of the sulci between the convolutions varies in different subjects ; generally they penetrate to about an inch: hence it follows that two brains of apparently equal size may be very unequal in point of extent of surface for the grey matter, and therefore in amount of intellectual capability. Under the microscope, the cortical layer is seen to consist of four layers, two grey alternating with two of white ;^ * Those who wish to investigate the cerebral convolutions in their simplest form in the lower classes of mammalia, and to trace them through their successive complica- tions and arrangement into groups as we ascend in the higher classes, should consult M. Leuret, Anatomic Comparee du Systfeme Nerveux consider^e dans ses Eapports avec rintelligence: Paris, 1839 ; also M. FoviUe, Traits de I'Anat. du Syst^sme Ner- veux, &c.: Paris, 1844. t There are two kinds of nervous matter—the grey or vesicular, and the white or fibrous. The grey is exceedingly Avascular, and contains the nerve vesicles, which are generally allowed to be the source of power. The white consists of extremely delicate nerve fibres, is scantily provided with blood vessels, and is probably the mere con- ductor of power. The intense vascularity of the grey matter has been demonstrated by Mr. Quekett and Mr. Smee, who have had the kindness to allow the author to inspect their beau- tiful preparations. Mr. Smee's injections were made by using a solution of carmine in ammonia mixed with size. The minute arteries enter the surface of the grey matter, and break up in it into a network of fine capillaries. These capillaries are peculiar in being quite naked, and not supported, as in other parts, by cellular tissue. Hence it is they are so liable to give way, and allow their contents to escape : hence it is, they are fenced round by so many provisions calculated to break the force of the current of the blood—namely, the tortuosities of the arteries at the base of the bram, their sub- divisions in the pia mater, and the peculiar arrangement of the sinuses. I Six layers may be demonstrated in some situations, chiefly near the corpus cal-