JOINTS or THE FINGERS. 306 by interosseoTis ligaments, which extend between the bones, imme- diately below their contiguous cartilaginous surfaces. The digital extremities of tliese bones are loosely connected on their palmar as|.ect by the transverse metacarpal ligament, g Tiiere are six distinct synovial membranes, proper to jiKMDHANEs ^' ^^ lowcr eud of the radius, and the several bones of OF THE the carpus: see the diagram (p. 302). a. One between the lower end of the radius and the ulna. b. One between the radius and the first row of carpal bones. c. One between the trapezium and the metacarpal bone of the thumb. d. One between the cuneiform and pisiform bones. e. One between the first and second rows of carpal bones (the intercarpal joint). This extends to the metacarpal bones of the fore and middle fingers. /. One between the unciform bone and the metacarpal bones of the little and ring fingers. The first phalanx of the finger presents a shallow First joint ox OF THE oval cavity, crusted with cartilage, with the broad FiNGEKs. diameter in the transverse direction, to articulate with the roimd cartilaginous head of the metacarpal bone, of which the articular surface is elongated in the antero-posterior direction, and of greater extent on its palmar than its dorsal aspect. This formation of parts permits flexion of the finger to a greater degree than extension; and also a slight lateral movement. Each joint is provided with two strong lateral, and a palmar or glenoid ligament. The lateral ligaments arise from the tubercles on either side of each metacarpal bone, and inclining slightly forward, are inserted into the sides of the base of the first phalanx of the finger. The palmar or glenoid ligament. This is a thick, compact, fibro-cartilaginous structure, which extends over the palmar surface of the ioint. Its lower end is firmly attached to the base of the first phalanx of the finger ; its upper end is loosely adherent to the rough surface above the head of the metacarpal bone. On