STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. 149 honeycomb appearance, as shown in fig 31. The purpose of this is to increase the extent of surface upon which the capillaries may ramify. The structure of the minute air-cell of the human, lung is in all respects similar to the large respiratory sac of the reptile. The branches of the pulmonary artery subdivide with vessds"^^^ the bronchial tubes. Their ultimate ramifications spread out in such profusion over the air-cells, that a successfully injected lung appears a mass of the finest network of capillaries. This network is so close that the interstices are even narrower than the vessels, which are on an average about aVoo'^'i of an inch in diameter. The blood and air are not in actual contact. Nothing, however, intervenes but the wall of the cell and the capillary vessel, which are such delicate structures that they oppose no obstacle to the free interchange of gases by which the blood is purified. This purification is effected by the taking in of oxygen, and the elimination of carbonic acid and watery vapour. The most complete purification takes place in the single layer of capillaries between the folds of membrane projecting into the cell; for in this situation both sides of these vessels are ex- posed to the action of the air. The blood, circulating in steady streams through this capillary plexus, returns through the pulmo- nary veins. These, at first extremely minute, gradually coalesce into larger and larger branches, which accompany those of the arteries, and finally emerge from the root of the lung by two large trunks which carry the pure florid blood to the left auricle of the heart. From this outline of the anatomy of the lung, we see that the organ is so constructed as, in a given space, to allow the largest possible quantity of impure blood to be brought in communication with the largest possible quantity of atmospheric air. It is diffi- cult to conceive how any apparatus could be better adapted to the object in view. A stratum of blood of great superficial extent is exposed to an equal stratum of air, and these strata of contiguous fluids are contained in the interior of an organ so small as to lie within the compass of the chest.