348 PSOAS MAGNUS. of the diaphragm constitutes the mechanical part of the breathing. But the diaphragm conduces to the performance of many other functions. Acting in concert with the abdominal muscles, it as- sists in the expulsion of the faeces and the urine, also in parturi- tion and in vomiting: for in all these operations, we first take in a deep breath, that the diaphragm may be in a state of con- traction, and so form a resisting surface, against which the viscera may be compressed by the abdominal muscles. Moreover, by its rapid or spasmodic contractions it is one of the chief agents con- cerned in laughing, sneezing, coughing, hiccough. The muscles and nerves at the back of the abdomen must be carefully cleaned; also, the abdominal aorta, and vena cava inferior in front of the spine, without injuring the sympathetic nerves, situated on each side of the bodies of the vertebrae. The sheath which invests the psoas should be examined, and the branches of the lumbar plexus preserved as they emerge from the outer part of the muscle. The sheath of the psoas is attached to the sides of the vertebrae, the brim of the pelvis, and above to the ligamentum arcuatum internum. It is this sheath which determines the ordinary com-se of a psoas abscess, namely, beneath the crural arch into the upper part of the thigh; for it is a rare exception when the matter travels into the pelvis. This long muscle arises from the bodies and trans- Psoas verse processes of the last dorsal and the lumbar magnus. vertebrae, and their intervening fibre-cartilages; but observe, only from the projecting borders of the vertebrae, not from the central grooved part: here the fibres arise from a tendi- nous arch thrown over the lumbar vessels. The muscle descends vertically along the brim of the pelvis, beneath the crural arch into the thigh, and is inserted by a strong tendon into the back part of the lesser trochanter of the femur. As it passes under the crural arch, the tendon of the psoas lies immediately over the capsule of the hip-joint, and there is a large bursa between them to facilitate the play of the tendon. It should be borne in mind, that occasionally, even in young subjects, but