MECHANISM OF DEGLUTITION, 161. visible to the naked eye. The mucous membrane has a very thick epithelial coat, which gives the white colour to the palate. The descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery, and the palatine nerves from the superior maxillary, may be traced along each side of the roof of the mouth. The ramifications of these arteries and nerves supply the soft as well as the hard palate. Mechanism With the anatomy of the parts fresh in your mind, of degluti- consider for a moment the mechanism of deglutition. The food duly masticated, is collected into a mass upon the back of the tongue ; the lower jaw is then closed to give a fixed point for the action of the muscles which raise the os-hyoides and larynx, and the food is carried back into the pharynx by the pressure of the tongue against the palate, at the same time that the pharynx is elevated and expanded to receive it.* Having reached the pharynx, the food is prevented from ascending into the nasal passages by the approximation of the posterior palatine arches, and the elevation of the soft palate, which thus forms a horizontal temporary roof to the pharynx; it is prevented from returning into the mouth by the pressure of the retracted tongue, and the contraction of the anterior palatine arches: it cannot enter the larynx, because its upper opening is closed and protected by the falling of the epiglottis: f consequently, being forcibly com- pressed by the constrictors of the pharynx, the food passes into the oesophagus. The food passes with different degrees of rapidity through the different parts of its course ; but most rapidly through the pharynx. The necessity of this is obvious, when we reflect that the air-tube must be closed while the food passes over it, and that the closure produces a temporary interruption to respiration. The progress of the food through the oesophagus is slow and gradual. * The larynx being also elevated and drawn forward, a greater space is thus left between it and the vertebrae for the distention of the pharynx. t This falling of the epiglottis is eflFected, not by special muscular agency, but by the simultaneous elevation of the larynx and the retraction of the tongue. A perpen- dicular section through all the parts concerned is necessary to show the working of this beautiful mechanism. M