457 FRONT OF THE THIGH. This mass of muscle surrounds the greater part of Triceps ex- ^^xaft of the femur; therefore the whole extent of it cannot be seen without completely dissecting the thigh. It consists of an outer, middle, and inner portion, called, respec- tively, the vastus externus, the crurseus, and the vastus internus. The vastus externus arises by a very strong aponeurosis from the outer side of the base of the great trochanter, and from the outer lip of the linea aspera nearly down to the external condyle. The ci'urceus arises from the upper three-fourths of the front surface of the shaft. The vastus internus arises from the upper two-thirds of the inner surface of the shaft, and also from the inner lip of the linea aspera. They are all supplied by branches from the anterior crural nerve. ComTnon ^'^^ tendon of the rectus, gradually expanding, be- e^te^"sor comes connected on its under surface with the tendon of the cruraeus,* and on either side with that of the vasti, and is firmly fixed into the upper part and sides of the patella. From this bone the common extensor tendon, the ' liga- mentum patella},' descends over the front of the knee-joint, and is inserted into the tubercle of the tibia. Besides this, the lower fibres of the vasti terminate on a sheet-like tendon, which runs wide of the patella on either side, and is directly inserted into the sides of the head of the tibia and fibula, so that the knee is com- pletely protected all round. The patella is a great sesamoid bone, interposed to facilitate the play of the tendon over the condyles of the femur: it not only materially protects the joint, but adds to the power of the extensor muscles, by increasing the angle at which the tendon is inserted into the tibia. To facilitate the play of the extensor tendon there are two bursa?. One is placed between the ligamentum patella and the tubercle of * A few of the deeper fibres of the cruraeus are inserted into the fold of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint which rises above the patella. These are described as a distinct muscle, under the name of the ' mb-orur^eus.' Their use is to raise the synovial membrane, so that it may not be injured by the play of the patella. Since the triceps ,s connected to the lower part of the shaft of the femur only by loose cel- lular tissue there is nothing to prevent the distention of the synovial membrane, in cases of inflammation, to the extent of several inches above the patella