POPLITEAL SPACE. 480 extending from six inches abovsj to tbree inches below the knee: transverse incisions should be made at each extremity of the vertical, so that the skin may be conveniently reflected. In doing so, care must be taken to preserve the cutaneous branch of the lesser ischiatic nerve, which descends over the ham to the back of the leg. The muscular fascia covering the space is very strong, and strengthened by numerous transverse fibres. It is traversed by the posterior saphena vein, which passes to join the popliteal vein. The fascia having been reflected, the muscles and tendons constituting the boundaries of the popliteal space are to be cleaned. The space is formed, above, by the divergence of the hamstring muscles to reach their respective insertions; below, by the con- verging origins of the gastrocnemius : its shape is therefore that of a lozenge. Above it is bounded on the inner side by the semitendinosus, semimembranosus, gracilis, and sartorius; on the outer side, by the biceps; below, it is bounded on the inner side by the internal head of the gastrocnemius, on the outer, by the external head of this muscle and the plantaris. The space is occupied by a quantity of fat, which permits the easy flexion of the knee; and in this fat are found imbedded the popliteal vessels and nerves, in the following order:—nearest to the surface are the nerves ; the vessels lie close to the bone, the vein being superficial to the artery (fig. 106). Alono- the outer border of the semimembranosus is the great ischiatic nerve, which, after giving off branches to the three great flexor muscles, divides, about the lower third of the thigh (higher or lower in different subjects), into two large nerves—the peroneal and the popliteal. The peroneal rims close by the inner side of the tendon of the biceps* towards the head of the fibula, below which we have al- ready traced its division into branches for the peronei, and all the extensors of the foot and toes (p. 472). * The nerve is, therefore, very liable to be injured in the operation of dividing the outer hamstring.