DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. 175 Filaments of the gustatory nerve have been traced in the papillae ciroumvallatse and fungiformse, where they terminate in a minute plexus. Their mode of termination in the papillae filiformse has not been satisfactorily determined. All the papillae are covered with a layer of squamous or tessel- lated epithelium. That which covers the filiform is thicker than the rest, and with a microscope is seen to project from their sides Hke hair. The various kinds of ' fur' on the tongue consist of thickened and sodden epithelium. Eespecting the use of the papillae, it is probable that they enable the tongue to detect impressions with greater delicacy; and that they are instrumental in detecting different kinds of sensation, whether of taste or touch. From the density and arrangement of their epithelial coat, the filiform papillee give the surface of the tongue a roughness which is useful in its action upon the food. An apparatus of this kind, proportionately stronger and more developed, makes the tongue of ruminant animals an instrument by which they lay hold of their food. In the feline tribe, e.g. the lion and tiger, these papillse are so shai'p and strong that they act like rasps, and enable the animal to lick the periosteum from the bones by a single stroke of his tongue. In some mammalia, they act like combs for cleaning the skin and the hair. "Numerous small glands are found in the submucous tissue at the root of the tongue. They are similar in structure and secretion to the tonsillar and palatine glands, so that there is a complete ring of glands round the isthmus faucium. Small round orifices upon their surface indicate the termination of their ducts. Other mucous glands, with ducts from one quarter to half an inch long, are situated in the muscular substance of the tongue. Gl.ndsbe Under surface of the apex of the tongue is neath the placed. On either side, a group of glands presumed to be apex of the salivary. Considering each group as one gland, observe that it is oblong, with the long diameter from seven to ten lines, parallel with the axis of the tongue. It lies near the mesial line, a little below the ranine artery, on the outer side of the branches of the gustatory nerve, under some of the fibres of