DISSECTION or THE TALM OP THE HAND. 257 The chief use of the palmar fascia is to protect the vessels and nerves from pressure when anything is grasped in the hand. It also confines the flexor tendons in their proper place. Between the interdigital folds of the skin, we find aponeurotic fibres to strengthen them, constituting what are called the trans- verse ligaments of the fingers. They form a continuous ligament across the lower part of the palm, in front of the digital vessels and nerves. Cut through the palmar fascia at its attachment to the anterior annular ligament, and reflect it towards the fingers, to expose the vessels, nerves, and tendons in the palm. The vessels lie above the nerves, and the tendons still deeper. There is an abundance of loose cellular tissue to allow the free play of the tendons. When suppuration takes place in the palm, it is seated in this tissue. Eeflect for a moment, what mischief is likely to ensue. The matter cannot get to the surface through the dense palmar fascia, or on the back of the hand; it will therefore run up under the annular ligament, and make its way deep amongst the tendons of the forearm. Supei-ficial ^^'^^^ ^rtexj, having passed over the annular liga- palmararch. "^^^^ near the pisiform bone, describes a curve across the upper part of the palm beneath the palmar fascia towards the thumb, and, gradually diminishing in size, inosculates with the superficialis vol«, and very commonly with a branch from the arteria radialis indicis, to form the superficial palmar arch. The curve of the arch is directed towards the ball of the thumb. How are we to ascertain its exact position in the hand ? Most commonly its greatest convexity descends as low as a horil zontal line drawn across the junction of the upper with the middle third of the palm. In its passage over the annular ligament, the artery is protected m a furrow, between the pisiform and unciform bones, and by an expansion from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris to the pal- mans longus. The ulnar nerve lies close to its inner side. In the palm, the artery rests for a short distance upon the muscles of the little finger, then it lies upon the superficial flexor tendons 8