DISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM. 235 the tendon of the biceps. This fascia is in some subjects remark- ably thin, or even absent. It sometimes happens that the artery lies above the fascia, in absolute contact with the vein. In choosing, therefore, this vein for venesection, there is a risk of wounding the artery; hence the practical rule, to bleed either from the median cephalic, or from the median basilic above the situation where it crosses the brachial artery. Immediately above the internal condyle, in the neighbourhood of the basilic vein, we find one or two small absorbent glands. Others may be higher up along the inner side of the arm. I have seen a gland at the bend of the elbow ; but never below this joint. These little glands are the first which become tender and enlarged after an injury to the hand. Muscular The fascia which invests the muscles of the upper, fascia. ^ arm is a continuation of the fascia from the trunk and the axilla. This membrane varies in density; thus it is thin over the biceps, stronger on the inner side of the arm, to protect the brachial vessels and nerves, and strongest over the triceps. What are its connections ? At the upper part of the arm it is connected with the coracoid process and the clavicle; it is strengthened at the axilla by an expansion from the tendons of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi; posteriorly, it is attached to the spine of the scapula. The fascia surrounds the brachial vessels with a sheath, and furnishes partitions which separate the muscles from each other. Of these partitions the most marked are the external and internal intermuscular septa, which divide the muscles on the anterior from that on the posterior surface of the upper arm. These septa are attached to the condyloid ridges of the humerus and to the condyles. The internal septum, the stronger of the two, begins at the insertion of the coraco-brachiaUs, and separates the triceps extensor from the brachiaHs anticus. The external septum commences from the insertion of the deltoid, and separates the brachiahs anticus, the supinator longus, and the extensor carpi radialis longior in front, from the triceps behind. At the lower part of the upper arm, the fascia is remarkably strong, especially where it covers the brachialis anticus, and the