SIDE VIEW OE THE PELVIC VISCERA. 376 ANATOMY OF THE SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. To make a side view of the pelvic viscera, the left innominate bone should be removed thus:—Detach the peritoneum and the levator ani from the left side of the pelvis ; saw through the pubes about two inches external to the symphysis, and cut through the sacro-iliac symphysis ; now draw the legs apart, and saw through the base of the spine of the ischium; after cutting through the pyriformis, the great sacro-ischiatic ligament and ischiatic nerves, the innominate bone can be easily detached. This done, the rectum should be distended with tow, and the bladder blown up through the ureter. A staff should be passed through the urethra into the bladder. You have already seen how the peritoneum passes from the front of the rectum to the lower part of the bladder (forming the recto-vesical pouch), and thence over the back of the bladder to the wall of the abdomen. You see where the distended bladder is bare of peritoneum, and that it can be tapped either through the rectum or above the pubes without injury to the serous membrane, as shown by the arrows in fig. 80. The peritoneal connections of the bladder are called menTsoft'he its false ligaments; false in contradistinction to the Madder. ^^^g^ which are formed by the fascia of the plevis, and really do fasten the neck of the bladder in its proper position. The false ligaments are five in number, two posterior, two lateral, and one superior. The posterior are produced by two peritoneal folds, one on either side the recto-vesical pouch, over the fibrous remains of the umbilical arteries ; the two lateral by reflections of the peritoneum from the side of the pelvis to the side of the bladder; the superior is produced by the passage of the peritoneum to the abdominal wall, and contains the urachus and obliterated umbilical arteries. To expose the pelvic fascia, the peritoneum must be Pelvic fascia. ^.g^Q^g^j fj-om that side of the pelvis which has not