DISSECTION OF THE MAMMAIiY GLAND. 579 DISSEJTION OP THE MAMMAEY GLAND. The form, size, position, and other external characters of the mammary gland, are sufficiently obvious. The longest diameter of the gland is in a direction upwards and outwards towards the axilla; its thickest part is at the centre; and the fullness and roundness of the gland depend upon the quantity of fat which is situated about it and between its lobes. Its deep surface is flattened in adaptation to the pectoral muscle, to which it is loosely connected by an abundance of areolar tissue. It is inclosed by a fascia which not only supports it as a whole, but penetrates into its interior, so as to form a framework for its several lobes; hence it is that, in cases of mammary abscess, the matter is apt to be circumscribed, not diffused. The nipple {mammilla) projects a little below the centre; it is surrounded by a coloured circle termed the ' areola:' this circle is of a rose-pink colour in virgins, but, in those who have borne children, of a dark brown. It begins to enlarge and grow darker about the second or third month of pregnancy, and these changes continue till parturition. The areola is also abundantly provided with papillae, and with subcutaneous sebaceous glands, for the purpose of lubricating the surface during lactation. Structure. ^'^^^^ ^^^^^^ consists of distinct lobes held together by firm connective tissue, and provided with separate lactiferous ducts. Each lobe divides and subdivides into lobules, and the duct branches out accordingly.* Traced to their origin^ we find that the ducts commence in clusters of minute cells, and that the blood vessels ramify upon these cells in rich profusion; altogether, then, a single lobe might be compared to a bunch of grapes, of which the stalk represents the main duct. The main ducts {galadophorous ducts) from the several lobes, from fifteen * It is observed, in some cases, that one or more lobules run off to a considerable distance from the mam body of the gland, and lie imbedded in the subcutaneous tissue One should remember this when it is necessary to remove the entire gland. P p 2