CENTRAL LINE OF THE NECK. 33 belly of the digastricus. The absorbents connected with them come from all parts of the head and neck. These vessels unite, to form, on both sides of the neck, one or more absorbent trunks, called the jugular. On the left side this jugular trunk joins the thoracic duct, or opens by a separate orifice into the left subclavian vein: on the right it always opens into the subclavian vein. The contiguity of the glands to the great vessels and nerves of the neck explains the symptoms produced by their enlargement. The tumour may be so sitiiated as to be raised and depressed by the pulsation of the carotid, and thus simulate an aneurism. A careful examination, however, will distinguish between a real and an apparent pulsation. By grasping the tumour we become sen- sible that the rising and falling do not depend upon any varia- tion of its magnitude, but upon the impulse derived from the artery; consequently, if the tumour be lifted from the vessel, all feeling of pulsation ceases. Study well the parts in the central line of the neck fh^en-°^ '^5 P- 25). Beginning at the chin, we observe the ^Hhe^^ insertions of the digastric muscles. Below these is neck. the junction, or 'raphe,' of the mylo-hyoid muscles. Then comes the os-hyoides. Below the os-hyoides comes the thyro-hyoid membrane, attached above to the upper border of the hyoid bone and below to the thyroid cartilage. Below this is the pomum Adami, or notch of the thyroid carti- lage. Below the thyroid cartilage is the cricoid. These two cartilages are connected by the crico-thyroid membrane. Below the cricoid c. is the trachea. This is crossed by the isthmus of the thyroid body, and lower down it is covered by the inferior thyroid veins. Now the chief surgical interest lies just above and below the cricoid cartilage. We can feel this cartilage very plainly in the living subject at -any age, no matter how fat. In laryngotomy, the crico-thyroid membrane is divided transversely. The mem- brane should be divided close to the edge of the cricoid c, for two reasons:—!. In order to be farther from the vocal cords. 2. To avoid the crico-thyroid artery which crosses the middle of the