120 THE LUNGS. withoiit wouQding the lungs, and then distend the lungs by blowing into the trachea with bellows. Thus, you will ascertain how far the front edge of the lung overlaps the pericardium; how low the lung descends between the ribs and the diaphragm on the side and at the back of the chest. You will see the great gap in the left lung for the point of the heart. By making the lung expand and contract, you will observe how it slides along the pleural lining of the chest. This sliding takes place in health in silence. But when the naturally polished surface of the pleura becomes rough- ened by inflammatory deposit, a sound of greater or less distinctness (friction sound") may be heard. The practical result of this investigation should be to enable us to trace upon a living chest the outline of the lungs, that we may know what parts are naturally resonant on percussion. Commencing, then, from above (fig. 23, p. 117), we find that the apex of the lung rises into the neck a little more than an inch above the sternal end of the clavicle. This part of the lung mounts up behind the subclavian artery and the anterior scalene muscle, and deserves especial attention, because it is, more than any other, the seat of tubercular disease. From the sternal end of the clavicles the lungs converge towards the mesial line, where their edges almost meet opposite the junction of the second rib. There is little or no lung behind the first bone of the sternum. From the level of the second costal cartilage to the level of the fourth, the inner margins of each lung run parallel and almost close behind the middle of the sternum; consequently they over- lap the great vessels at the root of the heart. Below the level of the fourth costal cartilage the margins of the lungs diverge from each other, but not in an equal degree. The Ze/^presents the notch for the heart, and curves nearly in the course of the fourth costal cartilage ; at the lower part of its curve it projects more or less over the apex of the heart. The right descends almost perpendicularly behind the sternum as low ^ the attachment of the ensiform cartilage, and then, turmng outwards, corresponds with the direction of the sixth costal cartilage. Hy- pertrophy of the heart, or effusion into the pericardium, will not