575 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. snail's shell, the cochlea; and a posterior, consisting of three semi- circular canals. These cavities are filled with a clear fluid, called the endo-ljmph, and contain a membranous expansion (the membranous labyrinth), upon which the filaments of the auditory nerve are expanded. ^.^ ^ The vestibule, or central chamber, communicates in front with the cochlea, through the scala cochleas; behind, with the semicircular canals; on the outside with the tympanum, through the fenestra ovalis; on the inside is a shallow depression, the fovea hemi-spherica, through which are transmitted the branches of the auditory nerve. In the roof is an oval depres- sion—the fovea hemi-elliptica. In some subjects there is the opening of a small canal, termed the ' aquedtcctus vestibuli: It leads to the posterior surface of the temporal bone, and transmits a small vein. The semicircular canals, three in number, are situ- Snair*''^'''' ^^^^ ^^0^^ rather behind the vestibule. Each canal is about the J^th of an inch in diameter, and forms frds of a circle. They open at each extremity into the vestibule: therefore, there should be six apertures for them; but there are only five, since one of the apertures is common to the extremity of two canals. The canals are not precisely of equal diameter throughout; each presents at one end a dilatation termed the ' ampulla.' This dilatation corresponds to a similar dilatation of the membranous sac upon which the auditory nerve expands. Each canal differs in its direction : they are named, accordingly, superior, posterior, and external. The superior s. c! is also the most anterior of the three: its direction is vertical, and runs across the petrous bone: the ampulla is at the outer ex- tremity. Its non-ampullated extremity opens by a common orifice with the posterior s. c. The posterior s. c. is also vertical, runs parallel to the posterior surface of the petrous bone, and, con- sequently, at right angles to the preceding: the ampulla is at the lower end. The external s. c. is horizontal in position with the convexity of the arch directed backwards: the ampulla is at tlie outer end.