BRANCHES OF TflE SUBCLAVIAN. 58 near the lower border of the ' pons Varolii,' to form the basilar artery. The vertebral artery is accompanied by slender nerves from the inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. These nerves com- municate with the spinal nerves forming the brachial plexus. Destined for the brain, the vertebral gives off no branches in the neck, except a few small ones to the deeply-seated muscles; it furnishes, however, to the spinal cord and its membranes small arteries which pass through the intervertebral foramina. The vertebral vein is formed by small branches from the muscles near the foramen magnum. It descends in front of the artery through the foramina in the transverse processes, and joins the brachio-cephalic vein. It receives the veins from the cervical portion of the spinal cord. In some subjects it communicates with the lateral sinus by a branch through the posterior condyloid foramen. The cervical nerves pass through the intervertebral foramina behind the vertebral artery, so that the artery runs behind its vein, and in front of the nerves. The thyroid axis arises from the subclavian near the Thyroid inner edsre of the scalenus anticus, and after a course of axis. ° a quarter of an inch divides into four branches, which take different directions; namely, the inferior thyroid, the posterior scapular, the supra-scapular, and the ascending cervical. The inferior thyroid artery ascends tortuously behind the sheath of the common carotid and the sympathetic nerve, to the deep surface of the thyroid body, in which it communicates freely with the superior thyroid and with its fellow. It gives small branches to the trachea, the oesophagus, and the larynx. The ascending cervical artery usually arises from the inferior thyroid. It ascends close to the spine, between the scalenus anticus and the rectus capitis anticus major, and terminates in small branches, some of which supply these muscles; others enter the intervertebral foramina, and supply the spinal cord and its membranes. The supra-scapular artery (transversalis humeri) runs outwards