STRUCTURE OF THE PROSTATE. 397 called the crest of the urethra, and the most prominent part of it is named the ' verio montanum,^ or ' caput gallinaginis,'' from its supposed resemblance to the head of a woodcock. The seminal ducts open close to each other, one on either side of this promi- nence (p. 394). Immediately in front of the caput gallinaginis, precisely in the middle line, is a small opening which will admit a probe. It leads backwards into a little ' cul-de-sac' or pouch in the sub- stance of the prostate. This pouch is described as the analogue of the uterus, and called the ' utriculus' or ' sinus pocularis.^ It is of a pyi-iform shape, with the narrowest part at the orifice, and its length is about five or six lines. Practically it deserves attention, because in some persons it is large enough to catch the end of a small catheter. The minute orifices of the proper ducts of the prostate, from fifteen to twenty in number, are seen opening into the floor of the prostatic sinus.* The whole substance of the gland is permeated by the divisions and subdivisions of the ducts. They are not visible to the naked eye, but if traced out with the micro- scope, they are seen to terminate in blind sacculated extremities, ■upon which the capillaries ramify in rich profusion.f Modern observations prove that the prostate is more of a muscular than a glandular body. Nearly two-thirds of it is made up of muscular fibre of the non-striped variety. The great mass of this muscular fibre is arranged in a circular manner round the urethra, so as to form a sphincter. The prostate is remarkable for its dilatability. If a small incision be made through the anterior part of the gland, the base being left entire, the gland may be dilated * In the ducts of the prostate we often find small calculi, of a brown colour, con- sisting of phosphate of lime. Cases are sometimes met with in which these calculi by degrees attain a consiJerable size, and distend the prostate into a kind of sac, which when examined by the rectum feels not unlike a bag of marbles. t This was first demonstrated by Mr. Quekett. The same distinguished anatomist has also discovered that the secreting cells of the gland contain calculi of microscopic minuteness. He finds them, almost without exception, in the prostate at every period of life. For further detail concerning them consult the article 'Prostate' in Todd's Cyclopaedia.