DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 164 this broad posterior surface is a vertical ridge, on either side of which observe a superficial excavation for the origin of the crico- arytenoidei postici. On its upper part are two oval slightly convex surfaces for the articulation of the arytenoid cartilages. In front, its upper border presents a broad excavation to which the crico- thyroid ligament is attached. On its lower border, external to the depression for the crico-arytenoideus posticus, is an elevated facet which articulates with the inferior cornu of the thyroid car- tilage. The lower border is connected by elastic membrane to the first ring of the trachea. The thyroid is connected to the cricoid cartilage in front by the crico-thyroid membrane, which consists chiefly of elastic tissue, and laterally by its two inferior horns. Between these two car- tilages there is a perfect joint on either side, provided with a syno- vial membrane, and secured by capsular ligaments. The object of this joint is to permit the approximation of the cartilages. These cartilages are situated, one on either side, at Arytenoid ^^^-^ cricoid. In the recent state, before the cartilages. ^ membranes and muscles have been removed, the space between them resembles the lip of a ewer; * hence their name. Each is pyramidal with the apex upwards. The posterior surface of each is concave, and gives attachment to the arytenoid muscle: the anterior surface is convex and gives attachment to the thyro- arytenoideus and the false vocal cord: the internal surface is covered with mucous membrane and faces the corresjjonding sur- face of the opposite cartilage: the base presents an oval surface, which articulates with the cricoid cartilage. This joint has a very loose capsular and synovial membrane, which permits motion in all directions, liiie the first joint of the thumb. In front of the base is a tubercle (anterior tubercle), which gives attachment to the true vocal cord, and contributes to form part of the boundary of the rima glottidis. At the outer and back part of the base is another tubercle {external tubercle), into which certain muscles moving the cartilage are inserted; namely, the crico-arytenoideus * 'hjiiraiva, a ewer.