MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 206 maintaining the trunk erect, but to bend the spine to one or the other side. ^ ^ These little muscles arise from the apices of the costarum. transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae, and are imerted into the rib below. The direction of their fibres corresponds v^^ith that of the outer layer of the intercostal muscles. They are muscles of inspiration. The muscles extend between the spines of contiguous Interspinales. , , rni ^ ■ • i i • i. ^ vertebrae. They are arranged in pairs, and only exist in those parts of the vertebral column which are the most mov- able. In the cervical region they pass between the spines of the six lower cervical vertebrae. In the dorsal they are found between the spines of the first and second, and between those of the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebrae. In the lumbar, between the spines of the lumbar vertebrae. These muscles extend between the transverse pro- wsales.^^ cesses in the cervical and lumbar regions. In the neck they are arranged in pairs, like the interspinales, and the corresponding cervical nerve separates one from the other. In the loins they are four in number, and are arranged singly. We have next to examine the muscles concerned in the movements of the head upon the first and second cervical vertebrae This is a largely developed interspinal muscle. It clpfds arises by a small tendon from the well-marked spine posticus of the second cervical vertebra, and, expanding con- major, siderably, is inserted below the superior curved ridge of the occipital bone; in other words, into the spine of the occi- pital vertebra. These two recti muscles, as they ascend to their insertions, diverge and leave an interval between them in which are found the recti capitis postici minores. ^ ^ This is also an interspinal muscle, but smaller than pitis posticus the preceding. Arising from the feebly developed minor. spine of the first vertebra, it expands as it ascends, and is inserted into the occipital bone between the inferior curved ridge and the foramen magnum. The action of the two preceding muscles is to raise the head.