396 STUUCTUllE OP THE PROSTATE. provided with blood vessels and nerves than the rest of tlie bladder, and is endowed with more acute sensibility. This is the reason why a stone is more painful when the bladder is empty; and in the erect, than in the recumbent position. The bladder is supplied with blood by the ' superior,' ' middle,' and 'inferior' vesical arteries. The superior comes from the imobliterated portion of the umbilical; the middle from the superior vesical or the internal iliac; the inferior from the anterior division of the internal iliac or the pudic. The vesical plexus of veins terminates in the internal iliac vein.* The nerves of the bladder are derived from the hypogastric and sacral plexuses. Having already examined the form, size, and rela- Prostate. -fjions of the prostate (p. 385), you have now to make out its two lateral symmetrical lobes. There is, also, a third or middle lobe.f It unites the lateral lobes, and is situated above the seminal ducts. In health, this does not appear like a separate lobe; but when abnormally enlarged, it projects towards the cavity of the bladder, and acts like a bar at the mouth of the urethra. Make a longitudinal incision through the upper surface of the prostate to expose the urethra. The canal does not run exactly in the centre of the gland, but rather nearer to its upper surface; nor is it of the same calibre throughout. It forms a ' sinus' in the interior of the prostate, described by anatomists as the' sinus of the 'prostate.'' Along the floor of the sinus is a longitudinal ridge, about three quarters of an inch in length, broad and elevated behind, but gradually lost forwards in a narrow point. This is * The attention of the student should be directed to the very admirable injections of the veins of the bladder by Pettigrew, in the Museum of the Eoyal College of Surgeons. t Attention was first attracted to this middle lobe, in England, by Sir Everard Home, whose account of it is published in the Philos. Trans, for 1806. The prepara- tion prepared by Sir Everard in illustration is preserved in the Museum of tlie Royal College of Siu'geons in London, Physiol. Series, No. 2583 A. But the anatomy and effect of the enlargement of this part of the prostate gland is not a discovery of modern times. It was accurately described by Santorini in 1739, and subsequently by Camper, and is alluded to by Morgagni in the third book of his Epistles.