CALF OF THE LEG. 488 tion is into the under and back part of the os calcis. The tendon previously expands a little : between it and the bone is a bursa of considerable size. The action of the gastrocnemius and soleus is to raise the body on the toes. Since the gastrocnemius passes over two joints, it has the power (like the rectus) of extending the one while it bends the other, and it is, therefore, admirably adapted to the purpose of walking. For instance, by first extending the foot it raises the body, and then, by bending the knee, it transmits the weight from one leg to the other. Supposing the fixed point to be at the heel, the gastrocnemius is also concerned in keeping the body erect, for it keeps the tibia and fibula perpendicular on the foot, and thus counteracts the tendency of the body to fall forwards. The tendo Achillis, in raising the body on tiptoe, acts with great power and under the best lever- age ; for it acts upon a lever of the Jirst order. The fulcrum (a movable one) is at the ankle-joint f, fig. 108; the weight, w, at the toes; the power at the heel, p. All the conditions are those of a lever of the first order. The power and the weight act in the same direction on opposite sides of the ful- crum. The pressure upon the fulcrum is equal to the sum of the pressures applied: i.e. v xv + v^ x f.* ^ After passing through the opening in the tendon of DELATIONS OF thc adductor maguus, the femoral artery takes the THE POPLITEAL namc of ' poplitcal.' It descends nearly perpendicularly behind the knee-joint, between the origins of the gastrocnemius, as far as the lower border of the popliteus, where it divides into the anterior and posterior tibial. In its descent it lies, first, upon the lower part of the femur, and here it is slightly overlapped by the semimembranosus; next it lies upon the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and, lastly, upon the popliteus. * It is fair to state that some regard the foot as a lever of the second order. There is, therefore, room for two opinions on the question.