LATERAL A^ENTRICLES. 535 over the velum interpositum (fig. 126, p. 530). Viewed from its upper surface, it is triangular, with the base behind, as shown in diagram 128. The broad part or body is connected to the corpus callosiim. From its anterior narrow part proceed two round white cords, called its anterior crura, one on each side of the mesial line. As they pass forwards, the crura descend towards the base of the brain, where, making a bend upon themselves, they form part of the corpora mammillaria, from which they may be traced, passing backwards to the optic thalami. Immediately behind, and below the anterior crura, is a passage through which the choroid plexuses of opposite sides are continuous with each other. This aperture is called the 'foramen of Monro ^ (fig. 126).* Strictly of Mraro speaking, it is not a foramen, but only a communication existing between the two lateral and the third ventricles. The 'postenor crura are continued downwards and outwards from the body of the fornix, as thin white bands, intimately connected with the concave side of the hippocampus major as far down as the pes hippocampi. Each band is called the tcenia hippocavipi, or the corpus fimhriatum.^ This is an elongated mass of grey matter covered appocampus ^-^j^ ^^UIq^ and is situated in the posterior part of the descending horn. It extends to the bottom of the horn, where it becomes somewhat expanded, and indented on the surface, so as to resemble the paw of an animal; whence its name, 'pes hippocampi: Attached along the front border of the hippocampus, is the posterior crus of the fornix. This mass, smaller than the preceding, is situated in ^ippocampus ^.j^g posterior horn. It consists of white matter ex- ternally, and corresponds to a deep convolution which projects into the ventricles. Between the hippocampus major and minor, is a triangular smooth surface, called the pes accessorius, or eminentia collateralis. * Monro, 'Microscopic Enquiries into the Nerves and Brain.' Edinburgh, 1780. t The fornix and septum lucidum are absent in fish; they are merely rudimentary in reptiles and birds: but all mammalia have them in greater or less perfection, according to the degree of development of the cerebral hemispheres.