STRUCTURE OF THE LARGE INTESTINES. 436 The solitary glands are scattered in all parts of the small and large intestines. They resemble the glands of Peyer in structure, and only differ from them in being solitary instead of being aggre- gated into groups. The principal external characters of the large intes- intestine ^^^^ ^^^^ pouched or sacculated, and that it has, attached to it, little pendulous portions of fat covered by peritoneum, called ^appendices epnploicce.^ The pouches (sacculi) are produced by a shortening of the longitudinal muscular fibres, and by their being collected into three bands, about half an inch wide, nearly equidistant from each other. One of these bands corresponds with the attached part of the circum- ference of the bowel; another with the front part; a third with its concavity. If at any given part the three bands be divided, the pouches immediately disappear. In a colon moderately distended and dried, we observe that the mucous membrane forms numerous ridges or incomplete septa (see fig. 96): they correspond to the grooves on the external surface of the bowel, and disappear, like the sacculi, when the lonofitudinal bands are divided. The rectum differs from the rest of the large intestine in that its longitudinal muscular fibres are not collected into bands, but distributed equally over its whole circumference. Moreover, both the longitudinal and circular fibres are of considerable strength, like those of the oesophagus, as one might expect from the parti- cular functions which these parts of the alimentary canal have to •perform. For an inch and a half, or thereabouts, above the anus, the circular fibres are remarkably developed, and constitute the internal ' sphincter ani.^ The mucous membrane of the large intestine differs consider- ably from that of the small. There are no valvulae conniventes or villi; but the glands of Lieberkiihn and the solitary glands may be seen studding the mucous membrane. The solitary glands are more abundant in the caicum and in the appendix vermiformis than in any other part of the alimentary canal. The blood vessels present the same hexagonal arrangement on the surface as