URETHRA. 399 which the collective size is somewhat larger than a pea. Each pours its secretion by a single and very minute duct about one inch long into the bulbous part of the urethra. The use of these glands appears to be like that of the vesicul£E seminales and the prostate; namely, to pour into the urethra a fluid accessory in some way to generation. They are found in all mammalia, and in some, e.g. the mole, they increase in size periodically with the testicle. Urethra '^^^ urethra is the tube which leads from the bladder to the end of the penis, and serves not only as the ex- cretory duct of the bladder, but transmits the secretion of the testicles and the several glands accessory to generation. It is surrounded by different structures in different parts of its course. The first inch, or thereabouts, is surrounded by the prostate gland (p. 361); the second inch, which passes under the pubic arch, is surrounded by the compressor urethrse (p. 372); the remainder of its course along the penis is surrounded by erectile tissue, termed ' corpus spongiosum.' Hence it is divided into the prostatic, the muscular or membranous, and the spongy. The length of the whole is about seven or eight inches, but this varies according to the condition of the penis. The direction of the urethra, when the penis hangs flaccid, is like the letter S reversed; but if the penis be held straight, the canal forms only one cm-ve through the pubic arch, with the con- cavity upwards. The degree of this curvature varies at different periods of life. In the child, the bladder being more in the abdomen than in the pelvis, the curve forms part of a much smaller circle than in the adult; but it gradually widens as age increases, and catheters are shaped accordingly,* However, the parts, when in a sound state, will yield sufficiently to admit the introduction of a straight instrument into the bladder. Aston Key always used a straight staff in lithotomy. In its contracted state, the sides of the urethra are in close appo- » The sharper curve of the urethra in the child was weU kuown to Camper. ' lu recenter natis, vesica basi sua elatius sita, pedetentim descendit, unde necessario se- quitur curvaturam urethrae majorem esse in junioribus quam in adultis.'—Demon. Anat, Pathol, lib. ii. p. 13.