327 POSITION or ABDOMINAL VISCERA. a kind of hoi-se-shoe curve, of which the concavity is towards the left, and embraces the large end or head of the pancreas. For convenience of description, the duodenum is divided into an ascen- ding, a descending, and a transverse portion. The first is completely surrounded by a peritoneal covering; the second and third are only covered by peritoneum in front, and are fixed to the back of the abdomen. The relative anatomy of the duodenum will he more fully seen hereafter. Pursuing its course from the left side of the second Ueum!^™ lumbar vertebra, the intestinal canal forms a number of convolutions, which are loosely connected to the spine by a broad peritoneal fold termed the ' mesentery.' Of these convolutions, the upper two-fifths constitute the ' intestinum jejunum;'' the lower three-fifths the 'intestinum ileum.'' This is an arbitrary division. There is no definite limit: the character of the bowel gradually changes—that is, it becomes less vascular, has fewer folds of the lining membrane, and its coats are therefore less substantial to the feel. Commence- right iliac fossa, the small intestine opens into ment of large the left side of the colon, which is easily recognised by intestine. sacculated appearance: here the large intestine begins: here is the ilio-cascal valve (fig. 65). Immediately below the junction, the large intestine is expanded into a blind pouch, called the ccecum or caput coli. Into the back part of this pouch opens a little tube closed at the other end, called the ' appendix vermiformis.' This tube is generally three inches long, about as thick as a tobacco-pipe, and is either coiled up behind the csecum, or connected to it by a peritoneal fold, so as to hang loose in the pelvis. The commencement of the large intestine is generally confined by the peritoneum to the iliac fossa, in which it lies."^ Tracing it from this point, it ascends through the right lumbar region in front of the right kidney ; then, crossing the umbilical * But this is not inyariably so. The bowel is, in some subjects, connected to the fossa by a fold of peritoneum or a ' meso-cacum.' I have often seen this fold suf- ficiently loose to allow the caput coli to travel over to the left iliac fossa.