DISSECTION OF THE UPPEU AKM. 237 forearm: 2. It is a supinator of the forearm, in consequence of its •insertion into the posterior part of the tubercle of the radius. Its power of supination is greatest when the arm is bent, because its tendon is then inserted at a right angle. Why does the long tendon pass through the shoulder-joint ? It acts like a strap, and confines the head of the humerus in its proper centre of motion. But for this tendon, the head of the bone, when the deltoid acts,' would be pulled directly upwards and strike against the under surface of the acromion. When the tendon is ruptured or dislo- cated from its groove a man can move his arm backwards and forwards, but he cannot raise the smallest weight. The biceps is supplied with blood by an artery (from the brachial), which runs into the middle of it, and then divides into ascending and descend- ing branches. Its nerve comes from the external cutaneous (musculo cutaneous). Coraco- This thin muscle is situated at the upper part of the brachialis. arm, and runs parallel to the inner border of the short head of the biceps. It arises by fleshy fibres from the point of the coracoid process, in common with the short head of the biceps and from a fibrous septum which Ues between them. The muscle terminates in a flat tendon, which is inserted into the inner side of the middle of the humerus, between the brachialis anticus and •the inner head of the triceps. Its action is to draw the humerus forwards and inwards, e.g. in bringing the gun up to the shoulder. Concerning the coraco-brachialis remember, 1. That the ex ternal cutaneous nerve runs through it; 2. That its inner fleshy border is the guide to the axillary artery in the last part of its course; 3. That the brachial artery lies upon its flat tendon of insertion, and can here be effectually compressed by the fing-er or the tourmquet. s^^ The coraco-brachialis and biceps are covered at their upper part by the deltoid and pectoralis major. The head of the humerus rolls beneath the coraco-brachialis and short origin of fT^!' 7^ ^ i''^' interposed between these muscles and the tendon of the subscapularis, which covers the head of