DISSKCTION OF THE nilAlK. 528 behind the liganientum denticulatum, into the ekull through the foramen magnum, and joins the accessory part. The nervus accessorius then passes tlarough the foramen jugulare, with the pneuraogastric and glosso-pharyngeal. The glosso-pharyngeal is distributed to the mucous membrane of the pharynx and the back of the tongue (p. 193). The pneuraogastric is distributed to the pharynx, the larynx, the heart and lungs, the oesophagus and the stomach. The nervus accessorius supplies the sterno-mastoid and the trapezius. For the further description of these nerves, see pp. 21, 194. This nerve arises by several roots from the medulla hypoglossar ohlongata, along the groove between the anterior pyramid and the olive. Its fibres may be traced to the grey matter in the floor of the foiirth ventricle. It leaves the skull through the anterior condyloid foramen, and is distributed to the muscles of the tongue and the depressors of the os-hyoides and larynx. The brain should now be laid on its base. By gently the^brain" °^ Separating the hemispheres, we expose at the bottom of the longitudinal fissure a white band of nerve sub- stance, which is the great transverse commissure of the cerebrum, and termed the ' corpus callosum.'' Slice off the hemispheres down to the level of the grey^matter ^orpus callosum.* The cut surface presents a mass of white substance surrounded by a tortuous layer of grey matter, about one-eighth of an inch thick. This grey substance consists of four layers—two of grey alternating with two of white, the most external layer being white. In some places, chiefly at the base of the brain, six layers have been demonstrated. This transverse portion of white substance is the chief Corpus callo- cQ^^ectins: medium between the two hemispheres, and sum. ° ^ is called the great transverse commissure of the cere- * The section of the brain at the level of the corpus callosum was called by the old anatomists ' centrum ovale majiis;' at a higher level, the section was called 'centrum ovale minus.'