193 GANGLION OJb^ ANPERSCn. spirit, and the bones softened by acid. The first thing to be done is to remove the outer wall of the jugular fossa. This nerve passes through a separate tube of dura ^ngeal^'^^' ^^.ter in front of that for the other two nerves. Look- ing at it from the interior of the skull, we observe that it is situated immediately in front and rather to the inner side of the jugular fossa. In its passage through the fossa, the nerve presents two gan- glionic enlargements, named respectively the jugular and the 'petrous. The jugular ganglion (ganglion superius) has been particularly described by Miiller.* It is found upon the nerve immediately after its entrance into the canal of the dura mater, and is so small that its size does not in any direction exceed -Jjth of an inch. It occupies the outer side of the nerve, and does not implicate all its fibres. According to our observation, this ganglion is fre- quently absent. The petrous ganglion (called, after its discoverer, the ganglion of Andersch f) is situated upon the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, near the lower part of the jugular fossa. It is oval, and about J-th of an inch long. It is connected by filaments to the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves, and it gives off the tympanic or Jacob- son's nerve.J This tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal ascends through a minute canal in the bony ridge which separates the carotid from the jugular fossa, to the inner wall of the tym- panum, and terminates in several filaments. One traverses a bony canal to the plexus of sympathetic nerves round the carotid artery; a second goes to the fenestra ovalis; a third to the fenestra rotunda; a fourth is distributed to the mucous membrane of the Eustachian tube; a fifth ascends in front of the fenestra ovalis, and joins the great petrosal nerve in the hiatus Fallopii ; a sixth takes nearly a similar course, and under the name of the lesser petrosal nerve proceeds along the front surface of the * Mcdicin. Zeitung, Berlin, 1833, No. 52. t Andersch, Fragm. descript. nerv. cardiac, 1791. X This nen-o, though commonly called Jacobson'fj, was fully described by Andersch. O