254 DISSECTION Of THE FRONT OF THE FOREAEM:' the aponeurosis attached to the posterior edge of the ulna, and from the inner two-thirds of the interosseous ligament. About the middle of the forearm it divides into four muscular slips, which terminate in flat tendons. These tendons lie upon the same plane, and pass beneath the annular ligament under those of the super- ficial flexor, into the palm. On the first phalanx of the fingers, the tendons of the deep flexor perforate those of the superficial, and are inserted into the base of the third or ungual phalanx. Flexor "^^^^ muscle is situated on the front surface of the longias radius, outside the preceding. It arises from the front pollicia. surface of the radius, between the tubercle and the pronator quadratus, and from the interosseous membrane.* Its tendon proceeds beneath the annular ligament to the last phalanx of the thumb. Pronator "^^^^ square muscle arises from the lower fourth of the quadratus. ulna; its fibres pass transversely outwards, and are inserted into the lower fourth of the radius. It rotates the radius on the ulna. Interosseous Nearly on a level with the insertion of the biceps, the artery. ulnar artery gives off from its outer side the common interosseous, which runs backwards for about half an inch, and divides into the anterior and posterior interosseous. The anterior interosseous artery runs down close to the inter- osseous membrane, lying between the flexor profundus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis. At the upper edge of the pronator quadratus it divides into two branches ; one of which, the smaller, passes behind the muscle, supplies it and the front of the carpal bones, communicating with the anterior carpal arteries from the radial and ulnar ; the other, the most important, perforates the interosseous membrane, and helps to supply the muscles on the back of the forearm. A branch, the arteria comes nervi mediani, which almost always accompanies the median nerve, is an offset from the anterior inter- osseous. It lies in close contact with the nerve, sometimes in its » Sometimes by a slip from the coronoid process.