DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 184 branch of the frontal nerve. It then divides into filaments, which supply the skin of the eyelids, the lachrymal sac, and the side of the nose. Having passed through the optic foramen, this nerve Optic nerve. pj.Qj,ggjjg forwards and a little outwards to the globe of the eye, which it enters on the nasal side of its axis. It then expands to form the retina. The nerve is invested by a fibrous coat derived from the dura mater. At the optic foramen it is sur- rounded by the tendinous origins of the recti; in the rest of its course, by loose fat and by the ciliary nerves and arteries. This artery arises from the internal carotid. It Ophthalmic enters the orbit through the optic foramen, outside the artery. Qpj-^c nerve; occasionally through the sphenoidal fis- sure. Its course is remarkably tortuous. Situated at first on the outer side of the optic nerve, it soon crosses over it, and runs along the inner side of the orbit, to inosculate with the internal angular artery (the terminal branch of the facial). Its branches arise in ihe following order:— • a. Lachrymal artery.—This bra.nch proceeds along the outer side of the orbit to the lachrymal gland. After supplying the .gland, it terminates in the upper eyelid. It anastomoses with the deep temporal arteries, and also with a branch from the arteria <"meningea media. b. Supra-orbital artery.—This branch runs forwards with the frontal nerve along the roof of the orbit, and emerges on the fore- head through the supra-orbital notch. c. Arteria centralis retina;.—This small branch enters the optic nerve, and runs in the centre of this nerve to the interior of the eye. . d. Giliai-y arteries.-These branches proceed tortuously forwards with the optic nerve. They vary from fifteen to twenty in number, and perforate the sclerotic coat at the back of the eye, to supply the choroid coat and the iris. They are sometimes called 'pos- terior ciliary; to distinguish them from others named ' anterior ciliary' (branches of the muscular arteries), which proceed with the tendons of the recti muscles, and enter the front part of the