DISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM; 236 brachial vessels, and is continued over the muscles on the inner side of the forearm. At the back of the elbow, the fascia is attached to the tendon of the triceps, and the olecranon. Now remove the fascia in order to study the muscles on the front of the arm; namely, the biceps, the coraco-brachialis, and the brachialis anticus. The biceps, as its name implies, arises by two heads —a long and a short. The short or internal liead arises from the point of the coracoid process of the scapula, by a thick flat tendon which is common to a slender muscle on its inner side, called the coraco-brachialis. The long head of the biceps arises from the upper border of the glenoid cavity of the scapula by a long round tendon, which traverses the shoulder- joint and passes over the head of the humerus, and do^vn the groove between the two tuberosities. The tendon is retained in the groove by a fibrous bridge derived from the capsule of the joint, and connected with the tendon of the pectoralis major. Divide this bridge and see that the synovial membrane of the joint is reflected round the tendon, and accompanies it for about two inches down the groove, thus forming a sort of synovial fold. The object of this is to facilitate the play of the tendon, and to carry little arteries (from the anterior circumflex) for its supply. The two heads unite about the middle of the arm, and form a single muscle, which terminates in a strong flat tendon of con- siderable length; this sinks deep into the triangular space at the bend of the elbow, and, after a slight twist upon itself, is inserted into the posterior part of the tubercle of the radius. The anterior part of the tubercle, over which the tendon plays, is crusted with cartilage, and a bursa mucosa intervenes to prevent friction. The most internal fibres of the muscle are inserted into a strong broad aponeurosis, which is prolonged from the inner border of the tendon to the fascia on the inner side of the forearm. This aponeurosis, called the semi-lunar fascia of the bic&ps, protects, the brachial vessels and the median nerve at the bend of the elbow. The action of the biceps is twofold. 1. It is a flexor of the