DISSECTION OF THE GROIN, 441 This is the chief subcutaneous vein of the lower Saphena limb. Its roota, arising on the inner side of the foot, vein. . unite into a single trunk, which ascends over the inner ankle, along the inner side of the leg behind the knee, along the inner and front part of the thigh, where it passes through an opening—the ' saphenous opening'—in the fascia lata, to join the' femoral vein, immediately below the crural arch (fig. 97). In this long course it receives several tributary veins, some of which are often large; and, just before its termination, it is joined by the superficial veins of the groin already alluded to. Like all subcutaneous veins, it is provided at intervals with valves to support the column of the blood. The distribution of the cutaneous nerves of the thiarh nCTTCs!""^ varies considerably; so that a general description of their usual arrangement is sufficient. The cutaneous nerves are divided, according to their situation, into external, middle, and internal. All directly or indirectly proceed from the lumbar plexus, and are seen coming through the fascia, and dividing in the subcutaneous tissue. a. The external cutaneous nerve is a branch of the second lumbar nerve. It enters the thigh beneath Poupart's ligament close to the anterior superior spine of the ileum. Here it divides into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior division runs down at first in a sheath of the fascia lata: it then comes through it, and can be traced down the outer side of the thigh as far as the knee, giving off numerous cutaneous branches. The posterior branch, after coming through the fascia, divides into branches, which are distributed to the skin over the nates and the posterior part of the thigh. h. The middle cutaneous nerves, two or more in number, are derived from the anterior crural, which itself is a branch of the lumbar plexus. They pierce the sartorius four or five inches below the crural arch, and descend along the front of the thigh to the knee, distributing branches on either side (see diag., p. 453). h. The internal cutaneous nerves, two or more, also branches of the anterior crural, perforate the fascia lata, one about the