654 SPINAL CORD. they connect. Stilling and KoUiker,* who have deeply studied the subject, are both of opinion that they originate in the restiform tracts, and thence arch forwards—some on the surface, others through the substance of the medulla, and that they eventually join the tibres of the raphe. Internal struc. '^^^ P°^^ consists of transverse and longitudinal tiire of pons white fibres, with a considerable quantity of grey Varolii. matter in its interior. The superficial layer of fibres is obviously transverse, and connects the two wings of the cerebellum. After removing this first layer, we come upon the longitudinal fibres of the pyramids in their course to the crura cerebri (p. 552): these longitudinal fibres, however, are inter- sected by the deep transverse fibres of the pons, which, like the superficial, are continued into the cerebellum. The third and deepest layer of the pons consists entirely of longitudinal fibres, derived partly from the lateral, partly from the restiform tracts of the medulla. These are composed of longitudinal fibres, derived from the pyramids, from part of the lateral and res- tiform columns of the cord, and from the grey matter in the pons Varolii. If one of the crura be divided longitudinally, we find in the middle of it a layer of dark-coloured nervous matter, called * locus niger;' it separates the crus into an upper and a lower stratum of fibres. The lower stratum is tough and coarse, and consists of the continuation of the fibres proceeding from the pyramid and the pons. The upper stratum is much softer and finer in texture, and has received the name of the ' tegmentum:^ it is composed of the fibres proceeding from the lateral and the restiform columns; also from the superior commissure or crus of the cerebellum. Tracing the fibres of the crus cerebri into the cerebral hemi- sphere, we find that they diverge from each other, that its lower fibres ascend chiefly through the corpora striata, its upper fibres through the thalami optici. In passing through these great * Mikroskopische Anatomie, p, 454.