THE LUNGS. 119 lower border of the last rib. Suppose a musket ball to lodge in the pleural sac, it would fall upon the dome of the diaphragm, and roll down to the lowest part of the pleural cavity. The place, therefore, to extract it would be in the back, at the eleventh intercostal space. This operation has been done during life with success. Position and lungs are situated in the chest, one on each side form of the of the heart. Each fits accurately into the cavity which contains it. Each, therefore, is conical in form; the base rests on the diaphragm; the apex projects in the neck a little more than an inch above the sternal end of the clavicle. Its outer surface is adapted to the ribs; its inner surface is excavated to make room for the heart. But the best way to see the shape of the lungs is to inject the trachea with wax, which is tantamount to taking a cast of each thoracic cavity. In such a preparation, besides the general convexities and concavities alluded to, you would find in the right lung a little indentation for the right brachio-cephalic vein, in the left an indentation for the arch of the aorta and the left subclavian artery. Each lung is divided into an upper and a lower lobe by a deep fissm-e, which commences behind about three inches from the apex, and proceeds obliquely downwards to the front a little lower than the fifth costal cartilage. Speaking broadly, the whole of the anterior portion of the lung is formed by the upper lobe ; the whole of the posterior portion by the lower lobe. It should be noticed, however, that the upper lobe of the right lung is divided by a second fissure which slices off a triangular portion called the ' middle lobe.' The dimensions of the right lung are greater than those of the left in all directions except the vertical; the reason of this excep- tion is the greater elevation of the diaphragm on the right side by the liver. On an average, the right lung is to the left, in point of size, as 11 to 10. To understand rightly the shape and play of the lungs in in- spiration and expiration, take an opportunity of making the follow- ing experiment:—Cut away the intercostal muscles and the pleura.