11 PAROTID GLAND. The facial vein does not run with the artery, but takes a straight course from the inner angle of the eye to the anterior edge of the masseter. In this course it descends beneath the zygo- matic muscles, over the termination of the parotid duct, and at the anterior border of the masseter passes over the jaw, behind the facial artery, and joins the internal jugular. The facial vein is a continuation of the frontal, which descends over the forehead, and, after receiving the supra-orbital, takes the name of angular at the corner of the eye. It communicates with the ophthalmic vein, receives the veins of the eyelids, the external parts of the nose, the coronary veins, and others from the muscles of the face. Near the angle of the mouth it is often increased in size by a large vein which comes from a venous plexus deeply seated behind the superior maxillary bone. . ^ . This artery arises from the temporal or the external transversa- carotid in the substance of the parotid gland. It runs hs faciei. forwards across the masseter above the parotid duct, and is distributed to the glandula socia parotidis, and the masseter. It anastomoses with the infra-orbital and facial. It is seldom of large size, except when it supplies those parts which usually receive blood from the facial. We have seen it as large as a goose-quil], furnishing the coronary and the nasal arteries; the facial itself not being larger than a sewing thread. Your attention must now be directed to the parotid gland; its boundaries, its deep relations, the course of its duct, and the objects contained within the gland. The parotid, the largest of the saliva,ry glands, oc- gland. cupies the space between the ramus of the jaw and the mastoid process. It is bounded above by the zygoma; below by the sterno-mastoid, and digastric muscles ; behind by the meatus auditorius and the mastoid process; in front, it lies over the ascending ramus of the jaw, and is prolonged for some dis- tance over the masseter. It is separated from the submaxillary gland by the stylo-maxillary ligament; sometimes the two glands are directly continuous. The superficial siu-face of the gland is flat, and covered by a