STRUCTURE OF THE EYELIDS." 69 structures are separated by areolar tissue, which for good reasons never contains fat. The sJcin of the eyelids is remarkably smooth and delicate. It is abundantly supplied with sensitive nerves by branches of the fifth pair—namely, by the supra-orbital, supra-trochlear, infra- trochlear, lachrymal, and infra-orbital nerves. The orbicularis palpeho^arumhas been already described (p. 67). It is supplied with nerves by the facial. The levator palpebrce arises from the back of the orbit, gradually becomes broader, and terminates in a thin aponeurosis, which unites with the broad tarsal ligament, and is lost on the upper surface of the superior tarsal cartilage. Tarsal car- These are plates of fibro-cartilage which support and tilagesand give figure to the eyelids. There is one for each lid, igaments. ^^^^ connected at the angles (commissures or canthi) of the lids through the medium of fibrous tissue. One can best examine them by everting the lids. Each cartilage resembles its lid in form. The upper is the larger, is broad in the middle, and gradually becomes narrower at either end. The lower is nearly of uniform breadth throughout. Both are thicker on the nasal than the temporal side. They are connected to the margin of the orbit, and maintained in position by the tendo oculi, and by what are called the broad tarsal or palpebral ligaments: these ligaments are continuations from the periosteum of the orbit to the tarsal cartilages. There are two of them, termed upper and lower, and proceeding to each cartilage respectively. When an abscess forms in the areolar tissue of the lids, these ligaments prevent the matter from making its way into the orbit. Each tarsal cartilage is moreover attached to the malar bone, by means of a ligament, called the external tarsal ligament The ciliary margin is the thickest part of the tarsal cartilages. It is generally stated that the inner edge of each is sloped or beveled off; and that, when the lids are closed, there is formed, with the globe of the eye, a triangular channel. This channel is said to conduct the tears to the puncta lacrymalia. According to our observation, this channel does not exist: for when the lids°a.re