452 Scarpa's tkiangle. consists of the adductors; that in the middle, of the extensors: the long thin muscle crossing obliquely in front from the outer to the inner side, is the sartorius. In the middle are seen the femoral vessels, and the anterior crural nerve emerging beneath the crural arch. This muscle arises from the anterior superior spine Sartorius. ^j^^ ileum, and from the ridge below to the extent of an inch. It passes obliquely like a strap over the front of the thigh towards the inner side; and then descends almost perpen- dicularly on the inner side of the thigh as far as the knee, where it terminates in a flat tendon which expands, and is inserted into the inner and front part of the tibia just below its tubercle. The tendon appears all the wider on account of its broad con- nection with the fascia of the leg. A large bursa * is interposed between the tendon and the internal lateral ligament. The chief action of the muscle is to fix the pelvis steadily on the thigh. It also crosses one leg over the other, as tailors sit when at work.f Its nerve comes from the middle cutaneous branch of the anterior crural. In consequence of the oblique direction of the Scarpa's gartorius, a triangle is formed, which has this muscle triange. adductor longus for its two sides, and the crural arch for its base: the triangle is called ' Scarpa's.'$ The contents of this important space should be carefully displayed, and their relative positions well studied. This triangle contains all the parts which pass under the crural arch; namely, from without inwards ; the external cutaneous nerve, close to the anterior spine of the ileum ; the iliacus internus and psoas ; the anterior crural nerve and its divisions, especially the long saphenous nerve; the femoral artery with its great branch 'the profunda,'which runs * In persons, females especially, who are in the habit of riding, this bursa some- times becomes enlarged. ^ , • s , n „ t Hence the name given to it by Spigelius (De corporis hum. fabric.), Quern ego sartorinm museulum vocare soleo, quod sartores eo maximfe utuntur, dum cms crun inter consuendum imponunt.' „ . j ^t. r •„ ;f . \ So called in compliment to the Italian anatomist Avho first tied the femoral in it for popliteal aneurism.