POSITION OF ABDOMINAL, VISCEKA. 329 an arch, of which the concavity embraces the convolutions of the small intestines. Leno-th of the "^^^ small intestines, including the duodenum, vary alimentary from sixteen to twenty-four feet in length, and the canal. large intestines from five feet to five feet and a half; these measurements are subject to some variation according to the height of the individual. In round numbers, we may say that the small and large intestines are from five to six times the length of the body. The liver "^^^ ^^^^^^ Occupies the whole of the right bypo- chondrium, and extends over the epigastric region mor or less into the left. Unless the individual be very corpulent, we can ascertain during life the extent to which the liver projects below the costal cartilages, and the general dimensions of the organ may be tolerably well told by percussion. Its anterior border is sharp and thin; its posterior is broad and connected to the diaphragm by peritoneal ligaments. Its under surface overlays part of the stomach, of the duodenum, of the right kidney, of the transverse coloji, and of the suprarenal capsule : its upper surface is convex, and accurately adapted to the arch of the diaphragm. To this muscle the liver is connected by folds of peritoneum, called ' ligaments.' One of these, nearly longitudinal in direction, and called the ' suspensory,' or, from its shape, the 'falciform' hgament, is situated a little to the right of the mesial line. The free edge of it in front contains the impervious remains of the umbilical vein, called the ' round' ligament. The sus- pensory ligament, traced backwards, leads to another broad fold extending horizontally from the diaphragm to the posterior border of the liver ; this constitutes the ' lateral' ligament, right or left, according as we trace it on one or other side of the falciform ligament. The junction of the lateral and falciform ligaments is described by some authors as the coronary hgament. Gall-bladder. '^^^ gall-bladder is the reservoir for the bile, and is closely confined by the peritoneum in a slight depres- sion on the under surface of the liver. Its lower end or fundus