PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. 445 (Hey's ligament)^ arches over the femoral vein, and is continued uninterruptedly into * G-imbernat's ligament' or into that part of the crural arch which is inserted into the linea ilio-pectinea. The upper horn deserves especial attention, because it forms the upper boundary of the aperture through which a femoral hernia takes place; and, being chiefly concerned in the constriction of the rupture, must be divided for its relief. This may be easily ascertained by introducing the little finger under the crural arch, on the inner side of the femoral vein—in other words into the femoral ring (see the arrow in the diagram). Feel how much the upper horn of the crescent would girt the neck of a hernia, and that its tension is greatly influenced by the position of the limb ; for if the thigh be bent and brought over to the other side, the tension of all the parts is materially lessened.f ANATOMY OF THE PAETS CONCEENED IN FEMOEAL HEENIA. The anatomy of the parts concerned in femoral hernia cannot be thoroughly understood without the assistance of special dissec- tions. The following demonstration, therefore, takes for granted that the student has the opportunity of seeing the parts, not only on their femoral, but also on their abdominal side. We propose to treat the different parts of the subject in the following order:— a. The formation of the crural arch. b. The arrangement of the parts which pass under the arch/ c. The sheath of the femoral vessels. cl. The crural canal and ring-. e. The practical application of the subject. * This upper horn is sometimes called 'Hey's ligament,' after the surgeon who first drew attention to it: Observations in Sm-gery, by W. Hey, E.E.S. London, 1810. t We must always bear in mind, that though the crural arch and the fascia attached to It have received particular names, they are not, on that account, distinct and se- parate ; but all are intimately connected, and portions merely of one continuous expan- sion. Thus all the parts are kept in a condition of mutual tension, which depends very much on the position of the thigh.