INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 90 branch from Meckel's ganglion), and then along the roof of the hard palate, towards the anterior palatine canal, in whicli, much diminished in size, it inosculates on the septum nasi with a branch of the spheno-palatine artery. It supplies the gums, the glands, and mucous membrane of this part, and furnishes branches to the soft palate. I. The Vidian, an insignificant branch, runs backwards through the Vidian canal with the Vidian nerve, and is lost upon the Eustachian tube and the pharynx. m. The nasal or spheno-palatine branch enters the nose, through the spheno-palatine foramen in company with the nasal nerve from Meckel's (spheno-palatine) ganglion, and ramifies upon the spongy bones and the septum narium. n. The pterygo-palatine is a small but constant branch which runs backwards through the pterygo-palatine canal, and ramifies upon the upper part of the pharynx and the Eustachian tube. The internal maxillary vein is formed by the veins correspond- ing to the branches of the artery. It joins the temporal in the substance of the parotid gland, and forms the external jugular. This great nerve is the largest of the three divisions Inferior ^ g^-^j^ cerebral nerve. It differs from the other maxillaiy t . i -l • nerve and two divisions, i.e. the ophthalmic and the superior branches. maxillary, in that it contains motor as well as sensitive filaments; the motor being furnished by the small non-ganglionic root of the fifth nerve. Thus much of its physiology it is neces- sary to know, in order to understand its extensive distribution ; for the sensitive portion supplies the parts to which it is distri- buted with common sensation only, whilst the motor portion sup- plies all the muscles concerned in mastication. The nerve, then, composed of sensitive and motor filaments, emerges from the skull through the foramen ovale as a thick trunk, under the name of the inferior maxillary. It lies directly external to the Eustachian tube, and is covered by the external pterygoid muscle, which should be turned on one side to expose it. Immediately after its exit from the skull, the nerve divides into its several branches: some, destined for the muscles, contain