503 LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE. the pelvis from rolling towards the opposite side, or the thigh from being adducted beyond a certain point. Another purpose served by this ligament is to limit rotation of the thigh, both inwards and outwards. The cotyloid ligament is a piece of fibro-cartil.ige li°ament which is attached all round the margin of the aceta- bulum. Its circumference is thicker than its free margin which shelves off; thus it not only deepens the cavity, but embraces the head of the femur like a sucker. It extends over the notch at the lower part of the acetabulum, and in this situation has received the name of the ' transverse' ligament. The ligaments of the hip are so arranged, that when we ' stand at ease,' the pelvis is spontaneously thrown into a position in which its range of motion is the most restricted ; for the accessory ligament (ilio femoral) of the capsule prevents it from rolling backwards, and the ligamentum teres prevents its rolling towards the opposite side. This arrangement economises muscular force in balancing the trunk. The synovial membrane extends down to the base of the neck of the femur in front, but only two-thirds down behind. It is laid upon a thick periosteum. The head of the thigh-bone is kept in the acetabulum by at- mospheric pressure; the amount of this is, of itself, sufficient to keep the limb suspended from the pelvis, supposing all muscles and ligaments to be divided. When fluid is effused into the hip- joint, the influence of the atmospheric pressure is diminished in proportion; and the bones being no longer maintained in accurate contact, it sometimes happens that the head of the femur escapes from its cavity, giving rise to what is called a spontaneous dis- location. Ligaments knee-joint is a hinge-joint, and looking at the OF THE skeleton, one would suppose that it was very insecure. KXEE-joiNT. -g^^ nature has made up for this apparent insecurity by powerful ligaments, and by surrounding the joint on all sides with a thick capsule formed by the tendons of the muscles which move it.