20 gTERNO-CLElDO-MASTOIDEUS. great veins makes them more liable to the entrance of air wlien wounded. Many deaths are recorded, resulting from the sudden entrance of air into the veins during operations about the neck, or even the axilla. The sterno-cleido-mastoideus arises by a round cleTdTmas- tendon from the upper part of the sternum, and by toideus. fleshy fibres, from the sternal third of the clavicle. It is inserted by a thin aponeurosis into the mastoid process, and about the outer half of the superior curved ridge of the occipital bone. The sternal origin of the muscle is at first separated from the clavicular by a slight interval: subsequently the sternal fibres gradually overlap the clavicular. The muscle is confined by its strong sheath of fascia, in such a manner that it forms a slight curve, with the convexity forwards. Observe especially that its front border overlaps the common carotid artery; along this border we make the incision in the operation of tying the vessel. When both sterno-mastoidei act simultaneously, they tfcern^°^ draw the head and neck forwards, and are therefore mastoid. especially concerned in raising the head from the re- cumbent position. When one sterno-mastoid acts singly, it turns the head obliquely towards the opposite shoulder; in this action it co-operates with the splenius of the other side.* On emergency, the sterno-mastoid acts as a muscle of inspiration, by raising the sternum, its fixed point being, in this case, at the head. The sterno-mastoid is supplied with nerves by the n. accessorius, and by deep branches of the cervical plexus. It has three nutrient arteries, an upper mastoid, a middle, and a lower. The upper mastoid artery, a branch of the occipital, enters the muscle with the n. accessorius; the middle mastoid is a branch * The single action of the muscle is well seen when it becomes rigid and causes a wry neck. Other means of relief failing, the division of the muscle near its origin is sometimes beneficial in curing the distortion. In deciding as to the propriety of this operation, we should be careful to examine the condition of the other muscles, lest, after having divided the sterno-mastoid, we should be disappointed in removing the deformity.