200 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. middle turbinated bones, and are lost in the mucous meml)rane on the convex surfaces of these bones.* The olfactory nerves descend between the mucous membrane and the periosteum, and break up into filaments which communicate freely with one another and form minute plexuses. Owing to the difficulty of tracing the ultimate filaments, the exact mode of termina- tion is at present undetermined. Microscopically, the olfactory fila- ments differ from the other cerebral nerves, in containing no white substance of Schwann, and in being finely granular and nucleated. The olfactory are nerves of special sense. The common sensi- bility of the mucous membrane of the nose is supplied by branches from the fifth pair of nerves; namely, the nasal branch of the ophthalmic (p. 178), the nasal branch of the spheno-palatine ganglion (p. 190), and the Vidian nerve. That the sense of smell is independent of the common sensibility of the nose is proved by experiment and by pathology. For instance, any disease affecting the olfactory nerve, even the inflammation of a common cold, im- pairs the sense of smell, whereas the common sensation of the part continues equally acute, and becomes even more so, as one may readily ascertain by introducing a foreign body into the nostril. DISSECTION OF THE MUSCLES OF THE BACK. Those muscles of the back, namely, the trapezius, latissimus dorsi, levator anguli scapulae, and rhomboidei, which are concerned in the movements of the upper extremity, will be examined in the dissection of the arm. These, therefore, having been removed, we proceed to examine two muscles, named, from their appearance, ^serrati,^ which extend from the spine to the ribs. . This muscle is situated beneath the rhomboidei. It posticus arises from the ligamentum nuchse,t the spines of the superior. j^^g^ cervica], and two or three upper dorsal vertebrae, by * See the plates of Scarpa and Soemmerring. t The ligamentum nuchse is a rudiment of tlie great elastic ligament of quadrupeds (termed the pack-wax) which supports the weight of the head. It proceeds from the spine of the occiput to the spines of all the cervical vertebrae except the atlas ; other- wise it would interfere with the free rotation of the head.