57 BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN. operation ia which the large nerve (a branch of the brachial plexus) which runs parallel with and on a plain anterior to the artery was mistaken for it and tied; the surgeon being deceived by the pulsa- tion communicated to the nerv^e. -r, , „ The branches of the subclavian extend so far, that in Branches of i i i- i the subcla- the present dissection we ca.n trace them only lor a short vian artery, (jjgtance. They are four in number :— 1. The vertebral. 2. The thyroid axis, which gives off the inferior thyroid, supra- scapular, posterior-scapular, and cervicalis ascendens. 3. The internal mammary. 4. The superior intercostal, which gives off the deep cer- vical. As a rule, three branches are given off from the subclavian in the first part of its course—the vertebral, internal mammary, and thyroid axis—and one from the second part, the superior inter- costal. The most frequent deviation is, that the posterior scapular (transversalis colli) arises from the subclavian in the third part of its course.* This, the first and largest branch, arises from the Vertebral nnper part of the subclavian. For a short distance it artery. '^^ i i • lies in the interval between the scalenus anticus and the longus colli. Here it enters the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and ascends through the foramina in the transverse processes of the succeeding vertebrae. In the interval between the axis and the atlas, the artery makes a sigmoid curve, that it may not be stretched in the rotation of the head. Having traversed the foramen of the atlas, the artery curves backwards along the groove in its arch, perforates the posterior occipito-allantoid ligament and the dura mater, then enters the skull throuo-h the foramen magnum, and unites with its fellow" * With reference to the origin of the posterior scapular (transversalis colli) artery, I made special observations during the winter session of 1858-59. I found that this artery was given off most frequently, not by the thyroid axis, but by the subclavian in the third part of its course. Under these circumstances the superficialis colli a. gonerally came from the thyroid axis.