DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 538 base of the brain-r-namely, the locus perforatus posticus, corpora maramillavia, tuber cinereum, infundibulum, and lamina cinerea: all of which are best seen in a vertical section, as shown p. 530. In front it is bounded by the anterior crura of the fornix, and the anterior commissure; behind, it communicates with the foui-th ventricle through the ^iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum;' a long canal beneath the corpora quadrigemina. By gently separating the optic thalami in a fresh Commissures. , • ,^ , .^ brain, you see tliat they are connected by a transverse layer of grey matter about half an inch in breadth. This is the Middle ''^'i'iddle commissure, sometimes called the soft, on account of its delicate consistence : in most brains it is generally torn before it can be examined.* The optic thalami ^ ^ . are also connected by a round white cord, called the posterior commissure. It is situated immediately in front of, and rather below the pineal gland. The corpora striata are connected by a round white cord, called the anteHor commissure: it lies immediately in front of the anterior crura of the fornix. This commissure may be traced extending transversely through the corpus striatum of each side; then arch- ing backwards, its fibres are lost near the surface of the middle cerebral lobe. The third ventricle communicates with the lateral ventricles through the foramen of Monro, and with the fourth ventricle through the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum. This very vascular heart-shaped body is situated Pineal gland, jjj^j^gjj^^^gjy front of the corpora quadrigemina. It is wrapped up in the velum. It has two white peduncles or crura, which extend forwards, one on the inner side of each optic thala- mus, and terminate by joining the crura of the fornix. In its interior is some gritty matter, consisting of phosphate of lime. * The soft commissure does not appear to be a very essential constituent part of the brain. It is not found before the ninth month of foetal life; and in some instances, according to our observation, is never developed. The brothers Wenzel state that it is absent about once in seven subjects (De plenitiori Struct. Cerebri Horn, et Brut. Tubingen, 1812).