FRONT OF THE TrilGII. 455 reflected from their origin. The obturator nerve supplies all the adductors. It leaves tlie pelvis through the upper part of the obturator foramen, and soon divides into an anterior and posterior branch : the anterior runs in front of the adductor brevis, and supplies the hip-^joint, the adductor longus, the gracilis, and some- times the adductor brevis ; the posterior runs behind the adductor brevis, and supplies it as well as the obturator externus, the adductor magnus, and the knee-joint. This muscle arises from the front surface of the Wis°*°' pubes near the symphysis, and from its ascending ramus; it widens as it descends, and is inserted into the upper third of the linea aspera. Its nerve is derived from the obturator. By reflecting it from its origin, the following muscle is exposed.* This muscle arises from the lower two-thirds of the magmis°^ pubic arch and from the tuberosity of the ischium. Its fibres spread out, and are inserted, behind the other adductors, into the whole length of the linea aspera; also into the ridge leading from it to the inner condyle. Its nerve comes from the posterior division of the obturator. Observe that all the ad- ductor muscles are inserted into the femur by flat tendons which are more or less connected with each other. About the junction of the upper two-thirds with the lower third of the thigh, the femoral artery passes through an oval opening in the tendon of the adductor magnus. Psoas magnus and These muscles have been fully described in the .liacus internus. dissection of the abdomen (p. 348). Tensor fascice "^^^^ i^i^scle is situated at the upper and outer part femoris/^''"^of*b6 thigh. It arises from the external lip of the crest of the ileum, close to the anterior spine, descends with a slight inclination backwards, and is inserted, at the junction of the upper with the middle third, between two layers of the strong aponeurosis, generally described as part of the fascia lata (p. 443)! * Beneath the adductor brevis, and running parallel with the upper border of tlie adductor magnus, is seen the obturator externus. But the description of this muscle is defeiTed till the dissection of tlie external rotators of the thigh.