71 STRUCTURE OF THE EYELIDS. described them, are situated on the under surface of ^ands"^'^" each of the tarsal cartilages. In the upper lid there are about thirty; not so many in the lower. On everting the lid, they are seen running in longitudinal rows in grooves of the cartilage. Under the microscope, one sees that they consist of a central tube, round the sides of which are a number of openings leading to short csecal dilatations. The orifices of these glands are situated on the free margin of the lid behind the lashes. Their use is to secrete an unctuous substance, which prevents the lids from sticking together. This name is given to a small reddish body situated Caruneula i. • r j.t. tj. • j r lacrymalis inner corner of the eye. It is composed of an aggregation of sebaceous glands covered by mucous membrane. In some instances minute hairs grow upon it. Its use is, probably, to support the inner junction of the eyelids. When the caruncle is diminished in size by disease, the puncta lacrymalia become displaced, and the tears run down the cheek. External to the caruneula lacrymalis is a slight vertical fold of conjunctiva, 'plica semilunaris,^ which is by some considered to be a rudimentary membrana nictitans (third eyelid found in birds). The conjunctival coat of the eyelid will be described with the anatomy of the eye. Observe at present, that it is more vascular than the conjunctival coat of the eye, and that it presents a number of minute papillae, which, when enlarged and aggre- gated by inflammation, give rise to the disease called * granular lids.' Such, in outline, is the structure of the eyelids. Their use is best described by Socrates, who, in answer to the question whether animals were made by chance or design, replies:—'Think you not that it looks like the work of prescience, because the sight is delicate, to have guarded it with eyelids, which open wheii we want to see, but shut when we go to sleep; to have fenced these lids with eyelashes, which, like a sieve, strain the dusty wind, and hinder it from hurting the eyes; and over the eyes to have placed