398 STRUCTURE OF THE PROSTATE. by the finger sufficiently to admit the extraction of even large calculi. Any change in the dimensions of the prostate must affect the canal which runs through it, and more or less obstruct the flow of urine. If the entire gland be uniformly enlarged, the length of the prostatic urethra will be increased; if the enlargement pre- ponderate at one part more than another, then the canal will deviate more or less from its natural track and assume a more angular or a lateral curve according to the part enlarged. When the middle lobe becomes enlarged, there arises, at the neck of the bladder, a growth, which will, in proportion to its size, more or less obstruct the passage of the urine. In the efforts made to intro- duce a catheter into the bladder, it sometimes happens that the end of the instrument is pushed through this hypertrophied lobe.* The external appearance of these bodies has been ^^^'ales already described (p. 384). Respecting their structure, we find that they have an external coat derived from the pelvic fascia ; a middle or fibrous, strong and somewhat elastic, and an internal or mucous. The mucous membrane is lined by a scaly epithelium, and presents a beautiful honey-comb structure, not unlike that of the gall-bladder: the purpose of this is to increase the extent of the secreting surface. According to some anatomists, muscular fibres are present in the fibrous investment of the vesiculse seminales, for the purpose of expelling their contents. The duct emerges from the anterior part of the vesicula, and joins at an acute angle the vas deferens behind the prostate, to form the common ejaculatory duct (p. 361). The function of these bodies is twofold: they act as reservoirs for the semen, and secrete a fluid accessory to generation. The glands of Cowper have been examined in situ in gWs! ' tl^^ dissection of the perineum (p. 374). We find them close to the urethra, one on either side, immediately behind the bulb and between the two layers of the triangular ligament. They consist of an aggregation of smaller glands, of * See the Museum of St. Bartholomew's, Prep. 8 and 21, Series xxix.