SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 51 may be said, that the scalene muscle is concealed by the sterno- mastoid, and that consequently, in tying the subclavian artery, it will greatly facilitate the operation, if the clavicular origin of the muscle be partially divided. Phrenic The phrenic nerve runs down in front of the scalenus nerve. anticus, from the outer to the inner border. It arises from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves, but chiefly from the fourth. It enters the chest between the subclavian artery and vein, crosses in front of the internal mammary artery, and con- tinues its course between the pericardium and pleura, in front of the root of the lung, to the diaphragm, which it supplies. When the spinal cord is injured above the fourth cervical ver- tebra, the origin of the phrenic is implicated; therefore the dia- phragm, as well a,s the other muscles of inspiration, are paralysed. Death is the immediate result.* CODESE AND RELATIONS OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ABTEBIES. The left subclavian artery differs from the right, not only in its origin, but in the relations of the first part of its course. The right should, therefore, be examined first, ,and then the differences between it and left. The right subclavian artery is one of the two great branches Eight sub- ^^^^ which the arteria innominata divides behind the clavianar- sterno-clavicular joint. It runs outwards behind the scalenus anticus, then inclines downwards over the * The phrenic nerve is frequently joined by a filament from that branch of the brachial plexus which supplies the subclavius muscle. It is important to be aware that cases sometimes occur in which this seemingly insignificant filament is a branch of considerable size, and forms the greater portion of the phrenic itself. I have met with many instances in which this accessory branch was larger than the regular trunk; in all of them it crossed over the subclavian artery in the third part of its course, and would probably have been injured in the operation of tying this vessel. That such an accident has actually happened is recorded by Bransby Cooper in his surgical lectures. He speaks of having injured this accessory branch of the phrenic in tying the subclavian artery. The patient had incessant spasm of the diaphragm till he died.