DISSECTION OF THE LAKYNX. 162 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. Before commencing the dissection of the larynx, make yourself familiar with the cartilages which compose it, and the ligaments which connect them, as seen in a dry preparation. This bone, named from its resemblance to the Greek Os-hyoides. ]gj.|gj, Upsilon, is situated between the laryiix and the tongue, and serves for the attachment of the muscles of the tongue. It may be felt immediately below, and one inch and a half behind the symphysis of the jaw. It is divided into a body, two greater and two lesser cornua. The body is the thick central portion. Its anterior surface is convex, and has a median vertical ridge; on each side of which are depressions for the attachment of muscles; its posterior surface is smooth, concave, and corresponds to the epiglottis. The greater cornua (right and left) project backwards for about an inch and a half, with a slight inclination upwards, and terminate in blunt ends tipped with cartilage. In young subjects they are connected to the body of the bone by fibro- cartilage; this in process of years becomes ossified. The lesser cornua are connected, one on each side, to the point of junction between the body and the greater cornua, by means of a little joint lined by synovial membrane, which admits of free motion. They are about the size of a barley-corn, and the stylo-hyoid ligaments are attached to them. The os-hyoides is connected to the thyroid cartilage by several ligaments, which contain a quantity of elastic tissue. There is:— 1. The thyro-hyoid membrane, which proceeds from the superior border of the thyroid cartilage to the Tipper and posterior part of the body of the hyoid bone. In front of this membrane there is, in the perfect larynx, a bursa, of which the use is to facilitate the play of the thyroid cartilage behind the os-hyoides. The central portion is stronger than the lateral, hence it is sometimes called the anterior thyro-hyoid ligament. Through the lateral part of this membrane the superior laryngeal nerve and artery enter the larynx. 2. The right and left lateral thyro-hyoid ligaments