95 PHARYNGEAL PLEXUS. INTERNAL CAKOTID. It then crosses in front of the artery and proceeds along the lower border of the stylo-pharyngeus. It now curves forwards over that muscle and the middle constrictor of the pharynx, and dis- appears beneath the hyo-glossus, where it divides into its terminal branches for the supply of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, the back of the tongue and the tonsils. According to the present state of our knowledge, the glosso- pharyngeal is, at its origin, purely a sensitive nerve. But soon after its exit from the skull it receives communications from the facial, the pneumogastric and the sympathetic, so that it soon becomes a compound nerve—i.e. composed of both sensitive and motor filaments. At the base of the skull it is provided with two ganglia—the jugular and the petrous (ganglion of Andersch). The minute branches given off by these ganglia will be noticed hereafter; at present we are more concerned with what is called the ' pharjmgeal plexus ' of nerves. By the side of the middle constrictor of the pharynx, plexu^"^'"'^^ intricate interlacement of nerves, constituting the plexus which presides over deglutition. Its dissec- tion requires much time and care, and a pharynx prepared exclu- sively for the purpose. The nerves which compose it are derived from the glosso-pharyngeal, the pneumogastric, the spinal acces- sory, and the sympathetic. Consequently it possesses nerves of three different kinds—ganglionic, sensitive, and motor. Its minute ramifications supply the pharynx, the back of the tongue, and tonsils. Course and The internal carotid artery, proceeding from the divi- of th^i'nter- ^^^^ commou carotid, opposite the upper border nal carotid of the thyroid cartilage, ascends to the base of the skull, artsry. j^/ the sicle of the pharynx close to the transverse pro- cesses of the three upper cervical vertebrae. It enters the skull through the carotid canal in the temporal bone, runs very tortu- ously by the side of the body of the sphenoid, and terminates in branches which supply the orbit and the brain. In the first part of its course, it is situated immediately outside the external carotid, near the inner border of the sterno-mastoid. But it