niSSECTIOX OF Tin; BACK OF THE FORE.VIIM. 284 internodii pollicis; the fourth, the tendons of the indicator and the extensor communis digitorum; the fifth, the tendon of the extensor minimi digiti; and the sixth, the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris. All the sheaths are lined by synovial membranes, which extend nearly to the insertions of their tendons. In a few instances, one or more of them communicate with the wrist- joint. The fascia of the metacarpus consists of a thin fibrous layer, continued from the posterior annular ligament. It separates the extensor tendons from the subcutaneous veins and nerves, and is attached to the radial side of the second metacarpal bone, and the ulnar side of the fifth. The fascia must be removed from tlie muscles, with- nmscles'on injuring the muscular fibres which arise from its the back of under surface. Preserve the posterior annular liga- the forearm. , rrr, r n • i j j ment. The following muscles are now exposed, and should be examined in the order in which they are placed, pro- ceeding from the radial to the ulnar side ;—1. The supinator radii longus (already described, p. 249). 2. The extensor carpi radi- alis longior. 3. The extensor carpi radialis brevier. 4. The extensor communis digitorum. 5. The extensor minimi digiti. 6. The extensor carpi ulnaris. 7. The anconeus. A little below the middle of the forearm, the extensors of the wiist and fingers diverge from each other, leaving an interval, in which are seen the three extensors of the thumb—the extensor dssis metacarpi pollicis, the extensor primi internodii pollicis, and the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. The two former cross the radial extensors of the wrist, and pass over the lower third of the radius. Between the second and third extensors of the thumb, we ob- serve a part of the lower end of the radius, which is not covered either by muscle or tendon. This subcutaneous portion of the bone is immediately above the prominent tubercle in the middle of its lower extremity, and, since it can be easily felt through the skin, it presents a convenient place for examination in doubtful cases of fracture.