LUMBAR ARTERIES AND BRANCHES. 352 „ , The renal arteries arise from the aorta at right Eenal . . , . ■, -r. aperies and angles, and run transversely to the kidneys. Both are veins. covered by their corresponding veins. The right is necessarily longer than the left, and passes beneath the vena cava. Each, after sending a small branch to the supra-renal body, enters its kidney, not as one trunk, but by several branches, correspond- ing to the original lobes of the organ. The renal veins lie in front of the arteries, and join the vena cava at right angles. The left is longer than the right, and crosses over the aorta; it receives the spermatic, capsular, and sometimes the phrenic veins of its own side. The spermatic arteries arise from the front of the Sef and aorta, a little below the renal. They descend along the veins. psoas, behind the peritoneum, and then through the inguinal canal to the testicle. In the female, the corresponding arteries proceed between the layers of the broad Hgament to the ovaries. Each artery is accompanied by two very tortuous veins, which unite and then empty themselves, on the right side, into the vena cava; on the left, into the renal vein. There are five of these arteries on either side: four art^rSand arise from the aorta, the fifth comes from the arteria branches. gacra media. They are strictly repetitions of the inter- costal arteries on a small scale, so that ' lumbar intercostals' would be an appropriate name for them. They proceed outwards over the bodies of the vertebra towards the intervertebral foramina, and then, like the thoracic intercostals, divide into dorsal and abdominal branches. The dorsal branches pass between the transverse processes accompanied by the posterior branches of the corresponding nerves, and are of a size proportionate to the large development of the muscles of the back which they supply. They also send arteries into the spinal canal, some of which are distributed to the Cauda equina, and others to the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae. • The abdominal branches all run outwards behind the quadratus lumborum, except the last, which usually runs in front. After