LIGAMENTS OF THE ANKLE. 507 There is a distinct joint between the upper ends of CONNECTING i^he tibia and fibula, although it admits of little move- THE TIBIA ment. It is firmly secured by oblique ligaments in AND FiBuiJi. ^^.^j^j. behind ; their fibres being directed down- wards and outwards (p. 505). The contiguous surfaces of the bones are crusted with cartilage. In the great majority of in- stances its synovial membrane is independent; but it occasionally communicates with the synovial membrane of the knee. The shafts of the bones are connected by the in- membranr^^ terosseous membrane. The purpose of this is to afford additional surface for the attachment of muscles. Its fibres pass chiefly downwards and outwards from the tibia to the fibula, but some cross like the letter X. The anterior tibial artery comes forward above the interosseous membrane. It is perforated here and there for the passage of blood vessels. , „ . . The lower ends of the tibia and fibula are most firmly Inlenor tibio- . fibular liga- connected, for it is essential to the solidity of the ankle- ments. joint that there be no motion between them. They are secured by an oblique ligament in front and behind, and by strong ligamentous fibres, intei-osseous, which connect their contiguous surfaces, and answer the purpose of rivets. Besides these, a strong fibro-cartilaginous ligament proceeds from the end of the fibula, and is attached along the posterior border of the articular surface of the tibia. The object of it is to deepen the excavation of the tibia, and enable it to adapt itself more accurately to the articular surface of the astraofalus. LiGAjiENTs From the form of the bones, it is obvious that the OF THE ankle is a hinge-joint; consequently, its security de- ANKiE-joiNT. pgj^jg ^pf^^ ^j^g gj.gg^^ strength of its lateral ligaments. The hinge, however, is not so perfect but that it admits of a slight rotatory motion, of which the centre is on the fibular side, and therefore the reverse of that in the case of the knee. Internal '^^^^ ligament, sometimes called, from its shape, lateral. * deltoid,' is exceedingly thick and strong, and com- pensates for the comparative shortness of the malleolus on this side (fig. 115). The great strength of it is proved by the