SOLE OF THE FOOT. 493 c. The medullary artery of the tibia. Posterior This is the continuation of the popliteal. It descends tibial nerre. close to its corresponding artery, and, entering the sole of the foot, divides into the external and internal plantar nerve. In the first part of its course the nerve lies superficial to the artery, and rather to its inner side; but behind the ankle the nerve lies on the outer side of the artery, and on the same plane.* It supplies branches to the three deep-seated muscles, and a cutaneous branch to the sole of the foot. DISSECTION OF THE SOLE OE THE FOOT. Make a perpendicular incision down the middle of the sole, and reflect the skin. Notice the peculiar structure of the subcutaneous tissue. It is composed of globular masses of fat, separated by strong fibrous septa, and forms elastic pads, especially marked at the heel, and at the ball of the great and the little toe; these being the points which form the tripod supporting the arch of the foot. In removing the subcutaneous tissue from the ball of the great and the little toe, we often meet with bursse, simple or multilocular. They are generally placed between the skin and the sesamoid bones, and have remarkably thick walls. Very frequently we trace an artery and nerve running directly through one of these sacs, which explains the acute pain produced by their inflammation. Cutaneous "^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ Supplied by a branch of the nerret'^^ posterior tibial nerve; the remainder of the sole by small branches of the plantar nerves which come through the fascia, as in the palm of the hand. Plantar ^^^^ remarkably dense and strong. It extends from fascbf'' under and back part of the os calcis to the distal ends of the metatarsal bones : it not only protects the plantar vessels and nerves, but is one of the many structures which support the arch of the foot. It acts like the string of a bow * It sometimes happens that the nerve divides into its two plantar branches higher than usual, and then we find that one lies on either side of the artery.