274 MUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ARM. Posterior "^'^^^ artery, sometimes called the ' transversalis scapular colli,' is usually described as arisiiifj; from the thyroid artery. axis, but it comes very frequently from the subclavian in the third part of its course. It runs across the lower part of the neck, above, or between the nerves of the brachial plexus, towards the posterior superior angle of the scapula. Here it pur- sues its course along the posterior border of the scapula beneath the levator anguli scapulae and therhomboidei, anastomosing with branches of the supra-scapular and sub-scapular arteries. The corresponding vein joins the external jugular or the subclavian. Divide the rhomboid muscles near their insertion, and trace the artery to the inferior angle of the scapula, where it terminates in the rhomboidei, serratus magnus, and latissimus dorsi. Numerous muscular branches arise from the posterior scapular. One, the superficialis colli, is given off near the upper angle of the scapula for the supply of the trapezius. Divide and reflect the latissimus dorsi below the inferior angle of the scapula, and draw the scapula forcibly outwards, to have a more perfect view of the extent of the serratus magnus than was seen in the axilla. The abundance of cellular tissue in this situa- tion is necessary for the play of the scapula on the chest. This broad flat muscle intervenes between the scapula Serratus ^ ^^Y)s. It arises by nine fleshy digitations from magnus. . .• ° . . the eight upper ribs, each rib gmng origin to one, and the second to two. The four lower digitations correspond with those of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. All the fibres pass backwards, and converge to be inserted along the posterior border of the scapula, chiefly near the upper and lower angles. This is the most important of the muscles which regulate the movements of the scapula; it draws the scapula forwards—and thus gives additional reach to the arm; it counteracts all forces Avhich tend to push the scapula backwards; for instance, when a man falls forwards upon his hands, the serratus magnus sustains the shock, and prevents the scapula from being driven back to the spine. Supposing the fixed point to be at the scapula, some