79 rAROTID GLAND. On cutting into the substance of the parotid gland, the follow- ing objects are seen in its interior, proceeding in the order of their depth from the surface:— 1. Two or more small absorbent glands. 2. The 'pes anserinus,' or primary branches of the facial nerve. 3. Branches from the auriculo-parotidean and temporo-auricular nerves which communicate here with the facial. 4. The external jugular vein formed by the junction of the internal maxillary and temporal veins. 5. The external carotid, which, after giving many branches to the gland, divides opposite the neck of the jaw, into the internal maxillary and temporal arteries.* The absorbent glands about the parotid deserve notice, because they are liable to become enlarged, and simulate disease of the parotid itself. An absorbent gland lies close to the root of the zygoma, in front of the cartilage of the ear; this gland is some- times affected in disease of the external tunics of the eye; e.g. in purulent ophthalmia : also in affections of the scalp. To display the plexus of nerves (pes anserinus), formed by the branches of the facial in the parotid gland, find one of the larger branches, say one of the malar, on the face, and trace this into the substance of the gland, as a clue to the others. Portio dura "^^^^ motor nerve of the face. It supplies all or facial the muscles of expression, except those which move the nerve. ^^^g^ arises immediately below the ' pons Varolii,' from the lateral tract of the medulla oblongata. The nerve enters the meatus auditorius internus, lying upon the auditory nerve, traverses a tortuous bony canal {aquedudus Fallopii) in the * Eeriewing the intricate and deep connections of the parotid gland, one cannot but conclude that it is almost, if not quite, impracticable to remove it entirely during life. If this conclusion be correct, even in the normal condition of the gland, what must it be when the gland is enlarged by disease ? John Bell, however, relates a case in which he was induced to attempt the extirpation of a diseased parotid (Prin- ciples of Surgeiy, vol. iii. p. 262). Other surgeons, too, of more modern date, have attempted the same thing. It is not unlikely that they have mistaken a tumour in the substance of the parotid for disease of the parotid itself.