MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 67 the eyelids outwards. It is fixed to the nasal process of the supe- rior maxillary bone, in front of the lachrymal groove, passes out- wards, and divides into two portions, one of which is attached to the upper, the other to the lower tarsal cartilage. The tendon crosses the lachrymal sac a little above the centre, and furnishes a tendinous expansion which covers the sac and is attached to the margin of the bony gi-oove. To see this expansion we must reflect that portion of the orbicularis palpebrarum which covers the sac. In puncturing the lachrymal sac the knife is introduced below the tendon, in a direction downwards, outwards, and a little back- wards. We have to divide the skin, a few fibres of the orbicularis, and the fibrous expansion from the tendo oculi. The angular artery and vein are situated on the inner side of the incision. This muscle arises from the tendo oculi, from the oCTli™^^"^ nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, and from the internal angular process of the frontal; it is in- serted into the skin of the brow, temple, and cheek. This broad sphincter muscle surrounds the margin of the orbit and eyelids, and its fibres are divided into two portions, an external or orbital and an inner or palpebral. Its orbital fibres take a wide sweep, passing uninterruptedly around the orbit, and mingle on the forehead with the occipito-frontalis; on the cheek with the zygomaticus minor, and the levator labii superioris. The fibres which belong to the eyelids (orbicularis palpebrarum) are thin and pale. They arise from the tendo oculi, and form, over each eyelid, a series of elliptical curves which meet at the external canthus of the lids, and are attached to the external tarsal ligament and malar bone. The degree of their curvature becomes less as they approach the margin of the lids, so that some fibres proceed close to the lashes. This was first pointed out by Riolanus,* and described as the ' musculus ciliaris.' f * Anthropologia, lib. v. cap. 10. t Strictly speaking the ciliary muscle arises from the two little divisions of the tendo oculi, and is inserted, at the external canthus, into the fibrous tissue which unites the two tarsal cartilages.