243 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM. pronators and all the flexors of the forearm (except the flexor carpi ulnaris and the ulnar half of the flexor profundus digitorum), to the muscles of the ball of the thumb, to both sides of the thumb, fore and middle fingers, and the radial side of the ring finger. This nerve (often called the musculo-cutaneous or External . -.t .i cutaneous * perforans Casseru ) arises m common with the ex- nerve, ternal root of the median, from the external cord of the brachial plexus, and is situated on the outer side of the axillary artery. It perforates the coraco-brachialis, and then runs down between the biceps and the brachialis anticus. A little above the elbow-joint, between the tendon of the biceps and the supinator radii longus, the nerve becomes subcutaneous, and, passing under the median cephaUc vein, divides into branches, for the supply of the integuments of the forearm. The external cutaneous nerve, in the upper part of its course, sends branches to the coraco-brachialis and the short head of the biceps, and, as it descends between the biceps and the brachialis anticus, it supplies both. Consequently, if the nerve were divided in the axilla, the result would be inability to bend the arm.* This nerve also sends some small branches to supply the elbow- joint. ^ This nerve arises from the inner cord of the brachial arnerve. pjgjj.^g^ common with the internal cutaneous and the inner head of the median. It descends along the inner side of the brachial artery, as far as the insertion of the coraco-brachi- alis. The nerve then diverges from the artery, perforates the internal intermuscular septum, and runs with the inferior pro- funda artery, behind the internal condyle. * In some instances the external cutaneous nerve descends on the inner side of the coraco-brachialis without perforating the muscle; in these cases it often sends a larger branch than usual to the median nerve. The trunk of the external cutaneous nerve may come from the median at any point between the axilla and the middle of the arm. In some subjects the nerve is absent; all its branches are then supplied by the median, which is larger than usual. Such anomalies are easily explained by the fact of the two nerves having always a common origin. K 2