BRANCHES OP ABDOMINAL ACUTA. 340 secretes the bile. The trunk of the vena portae itself is from three to four inches long. By tracing it downwards you find that it is formed behind the great end of the pancreas, by the confluence of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins (fig. 68). In its pas- sage to the liver, the vena portae is accompanied by the hepatic artery and the common bile-duct, lying behind and between them. Traced upwards you find that at the transverse fissure of the liver it divides into two branches corresponding to the two great lobes of the organ. The vein ramifies in the substance of the liver like an artery, and is inclosed with branches of the hepatic artery and duct in a sheath called ' Glisson's capsule.' The vena portae may, then, be compared to the stem of a tree, of which the roots arise in the digestive organs, and the branches spread out in the liver. After receiving the veins corresponding to the branches of the hepatic artery, the vena portae returns its blood into the inferior vena cava through the venae cavae hepaticae. The veins which empty themselves into the vena port« are also peculiar, in that they have no valves. Therefore, if any obstruc- tion arise in the venous circulation through the liver, the roots of the portal vein are apt to become congested: this is a common cause of haemorrhoids, diarrhoea, haemorrhage from the bowels, and ascites. Leeches applied to the anus have been long recognised as beneficial in congestion of the liver. The hepatic duct is composed of two trunks, one from Bile-duct. Yobe and the other from the left: it is soon joined by the cystic or the duct from the gall-bladder. The common duct, ' ductus communis clwledochus; thus formed, passes along the right edge of the lesser omentum, then behind the first portion of the duodenum, and opens obhquely into the back part of the second portion (p. 338). This common duct is from three to four inches long, and, if distended, would be about the size of a small writing quill. The great omentum, with the arch of the colon, must now be turned up over the chest, and the small intestines should be pushed towards the left side. Then, by removing a layer of peritoneum from the mesentery, we expose the mode in which the superior