573 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. is essentially fibrous; some of the fibres radiate from the centre, others are circular. Its inner surface is lined by mucous mem- brane ; its outer surface is covered by an extremely thin layer of the true shin. This accounts for the great sensibility of the membrane, and its vascularity when inflamed. For a complete account of the Eustachian tube see tube'^*^^"^'^ p. 159. It proceeds from the anterior part of the tym- panum downwards and forwards to the pharynx. The four small bones in the tympanum are named, bwies^"^*' after their fancied resemblance to certain implements, tlie malleus, incus, os orbiculare, and stapes. They are articulated to each other by perfect joints, and are so placed that the chain somewhat resembles the letter Z. Their x\se is to transmit the vibrations of the membrana tympani to the membrane of the fenestra ovalis, and, through it, to the fluid contained in the internal ear. But they have another use, which would be incom- patible with a single bone—namely, to permit the tightening and relaxation of the membrana tympani, and thus adapt it either to resist the impulse of a very loud sound, or to favour a more gentle one. The handle of the malleus is nearly vertical, and attached along its whole length to the upper half of the membrana tympani. The long process (processus gracilis) projects at right angles from the body of the bone, runs into the Glasserian fissure, and receives the insertion of the laxator tympani. The short process receives the insertion of the tensor tympani. The incus, or anvil bone, is shaped like a bicuspid molar tooth with unequal fangs. Its broad part articulates with the malleus; • its long process articulates with the stapes, or stirrup bone, through the OS orbiculare; its short process is directed backwards, and its point is fixed in a small hollow at the commencement of the mastoid cells. The stapes is horizontal, and its base is attached to the membrane covering the fenestra ovalis. The stapedius muscle is inserted into its neck. These muscles, by moving the tympanic bones, tighten or