47 BRANCHES OF THE EXTER^TAL CAROTID. are two which deserve notice ; the one is formed between the two superior thyroid arteries along the upper border of the isthmus, the other takes place along the back part of the lateral lobe between the superior and inferior thyroid. The superior thyroid vein crosses the sheath of the common carotid, and joins the internal jugular. The superior laryngeal nerve, mentioned as accompanying the superior laryngeal artery, comes from the inferior ganglion of the pneuraogastric. It descends by the side of the pharynx, behind both carotid arteries, enters the larynx through the thyro-hyoid membrane, and supplies the mucous membrane of the larynx with its exquisite sensibility. Some of its branches may be traced upwards to supply the epiglottis and base of the tongue; others descend to the ' rima glottidis;' and a large branch passes down behind the ala of the thyroid cartilage to join the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Before it enters the larynx, the nerve sends the ' external laryngeal ' branch to supply the crico-thyroid muscle. Lingual The lingual artery and its branches have been de- artery, scribed (p. 44). Facial The facial artery and its branches below the jaw have artery. ^^^^ described (p. 38). . The occipital artery, the fourth branch of the ex- arteiy.*^ ternal carotid, runs backwards along the lower border of the digastricus towards the mastoid process. It then passes under all the muscles inserted into the mastoid process— namely, the sterno-mastoid, the splenius capitis, and the trachelo- mastoid. Arrived at the back of the head, the artery runs super- ficial to the complexus, and divides into wide-spreading branches for the supply of the scalp. Observe that in the first part of its course, the occipital artery crosses over the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the spinal accessory nerve, and is itself crossed by the hypoglossal nerve. It sends off the three following branches:— 1. The sterno-mastoid, which enters the muscle with the nervus accessorius.