URETHRA. 400 sition ; the appearance it presents on a transverse section differs in the different parts of its course. Through the glans it is flattened vertically, its two sides being in contact; through the prostate, also, it is nearly flat, except at the lower part, where its sides are kept asunder by the verumontanum, which projects upwards, fitting accu- rately between them.* But throughout the rest of its course the lining membrane is disposed in longitudinal folds, which project into and accurately close the canal, precisely on the same plan as that by which nature closes the oesophagus (p. 124). These longi- tudinal folds are plainly seen even when the urethra is slit open; indeed, they do not disappear unless the canal be forcibly stretched contrary to their direction.f The urethra must be laid open from end to end, to see that the canal is not of uniform calibre throughoiit. The external orifice is the narrowest, and the least dilatable part; so that the urine may be expelled in a jet. Therefore, any instrument which will enter the meatus ought to pass into the bladder, if there be no stricture. The junction of the membranous with the bulbous part is almost as narrow. The centre of the prostatic and the bulbous parts are the largest. In the centre of the glans penis, the canal widens into a little sinus, termed 'fossa navicidaris: The most dilatable part of the urethra is the prostatic. Even the narrowest parts of the canal must admit of considerable dila- tation, since calculi of from 3 to 4 lines in diameter have been known to pass through it. The seminal ducts open into the prostatic part of the urethra, by the side of the verumontanum. The ducts of Cowper's glands open into the bulbous part. Besides these glands, a number of ducts open into the urethra, proceeding from little glands situated in the submucous tissue. These ducts, called ' lacuna^; are large enough to admit a bristle, and run in the same direction as the * See tlie transverse sections made by Pettigi-ew tlu-ougli the prostatic part of the nrethra in the Museum of the Eoyal CoUege of Surgeons. t In a well-injected urethra we observe that the r.dges of the folds possess very few blood vessels, while the fuiTows between them are exceedingly vascular. For the de- monstration of this fact the author is indebted to Mr. Quekett.