477 GLUTvEAL KEGION. rator foramen; also from the obturator membrane. The fibres terminate on four tendons which converge towards the lesser i§chi- atic notch, pass round it as round a pulley, and then uniting into one, are inserted into the top of the great trochanter. Divide the tendon about three inches from its insertion, to see the four ten- dons which play over the smooth cartilaginous pulley. There is a large synovial bursa to prevent friction. The nerve of this muscle comes from the sacral plexus ; sometimes from, the pudic nerve. These muscles are accessory to the obturator internus, and are situated, one above, the other below it. The gemellus superior arises from the spine of the ischium ; the gemellus inferior from the upper part of the tuberosity. Their fibres are inserted into the tendon of the obturator internus. Both muscles derive their nerves from the sacral plexus. This muscle arises from the ridge on the outer part of femoris tuber ischii. Its fibres run horizontally outwards, and are inserted into the back of the great trochanter, in a line with the linea aspera. Notice that the lower border of the quadratus femoris runs parallel with the upper edge of the ad- ductor magnus; in fact, it lies on the same plane. Between these muscles is generally seen a terminal branch of the internal circum- flex artery. Its nerve comes from the sacral plexus. To see this muscle reflect the quadratus femoris. It 2rtlmiis°'^ arises from the front surface of the ramus of the pubes and ischium, and from the obturator membrane. The fibres converge to a tendon which runs horizontally outwards over a groove in the ischium, and is inserted into the deepest part of the pit of the great trochanter. Its nerve is a branch of the obturator (p. 358). '^^is l^J'ge nerve is formed by the union of the sacral ischiatic nerves (fig. 105), and is destined to supply all the flexor muscles of the lower extremity, and the extensors of the foot. Emerging from the pelvis through the great ischiatic foramen below the pyriformis, it descends over the external rotator mus- cles of the thigh, along the interval between the tuber ischii and