CALF OF THE LEG. 489 It is covered by the gastrocnemius and soleus, and is crossed by ■the plantaris. The vein closely accompanies the artery, and is situated superficially with regard to it, and rather to its outer side in the first part of its course. The popliteal nerve runs also in a similar direction with the vein, but is still more superficial and to the outer side (fig. 106). The vessels and the nerve are surrounded by fat, and one or two absorbent glands are generally found in the immediate neighbourhood of the artery, just above the joint. The branches of the popliteal artery are the articular and the sural. There are five articular brandies for the supply of the knee- joint and the articular ends of the bone: the two superior—ex- ternal and internal—x\xn, one above each condyle, close to the bone, and are distributed partially to the vastus externus and internus, respectively; the two inferior—external and internal— run, one beneath each lateral ligament of the joint; and all four proceed towards the front of the capsule. The fifth, called the ' azygos,' enters the joint through the posterior ligament. These articular arteries form, over the front and sides of the joint, a beautiful network of vessels, which communicate, supe- culati^ons!""^" rio^ly, with the descending branch of the external cir- cumflex and the anastomotica magna; inferiorly, with the anterior tibial recurrent. It is mainly through these channels that the collateral circulation is established in the leg after ligature of the femoral. The sural arteries proceed one to each head of the gastrocne- mius, and are proportionate in size to the muscle. One or two branches are distributed to the soleus. These arteries are accom- panied by branches of the popliteal nerve for the supply of the muscles. Popliteal ^^^^ ^^^^ formed by the junction of the venae vein. comites of the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, and is situated superficial to the artery. It crosses obliquely from the inner to the outer side of the artery, and is continued upwards under the name of femoral. It receives in the popliteal space the external saphena, the articular, and sural veins.