563 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. communicate with each other through a circular aperture in the centre, called the pupil* Its use is to regulate the amount of light which shall be admitted into the eye: for this purpose its inner circumference is capable of dilating and contracting accord- ing to circumstances, while its outer circumference is immovably connected to the ciliary ligament, the choroid, and the cornea. The colour of the iris varies in different individuals, and gives the peculiar tint and brilliancy to the eye. The colouring matter or pigment is contained in minute cells {pigment cells) lining the anterior and posterior surfaces of the iris. The posterior surface of the iris, called the uvea,] is covered by a thick layer of black pigment. When the iris is laid under water, and viewed with alow mag- nifying power, a number of fine fibres are seen converging from all sides towards the pupil; many of them unite and form arches. When the pupil is contracted, these fibres are stretched, and vice versa. Whether they co-operate in producing the dilatation of the pupil is uncertain. The contractile power of the iris depends upon muscular fibres of the non-striped kind, arranged some in a radiating, others in a cii-cular manner. The radiating {dilatator) converge towards the pupil, where they blend with the circular fibres; the circular {sphincter) are aggregated on the posterior aspect of the pupillary margin, where they form a ring about -j^th of an inch in width.$ A considerable amoxmt of fibrous tissue is present in the iris, and consists of circular and radiating fibres ; the circular are found at the cii-cumference of the iris, the radiating converge towards the pupil. When minutely injected, the iris appears to be composed almost » The size and shape of the pupil yaxj in different animals. In the bidlock, sheep, horse, &c., it is oblong; in carnivoroiis quadi-upeds it is often a mere vertical sUt during the day, but dilates into a large circle at night. t Strictly speaking, the term uvea was applied by the old anatomists to the choroid and iris collectively, which they very properly considered as one coat, and caUed the ' Xtrwu l,ayo€iSris: because ifs dark colour made it like the berry of the grape } The circular fibres of the iris in the bird are of the striped variety, and dis- cernible without difficulty.