259 DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF TIIL: HAXD. From the concavity of the arch small branches ascend to the carpus, and inosculate with the other carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries. From the convexity of the arch arise four digital arteries,-which. supply all the fingers, excepting the radial side of the index finger. Observe carefully the course of these arteries, because you may have to open abscesses in the palm. The first descends over the muscles on the inner side of the palm, to the ulnar side of the little finger, along which it runs to the apex. The second, third, and fourth descend nearly vertically between the tendons, in a line ivith the clefts between the fingers, and about half an inch above the clefts each divides into two branches, which proceed along the opposite sides of the fingers nearly to the end of the last phalanges, where they unite to form an arch with the convexity towards the end of the finger; from this arch numerous branches supply the papillae of the skin. In the palm of the hand the digital arteries before they divide are joined by a small branch from the corresponding interosseous artery (a branch of the deep palmar arch). The digital arteries freely communicate, on the palmar and dorsal aspect of the fingers, by transverse branches, which supply the joints and the sheaths of the tendons. Near the ungual phalanx, a considerable branch passes to the back of the finger, and forms a network of vessels round the root of the nail. Ulnar n • "^^^ '"^^^^^ '^^erve passes over the annular ligament in the pall! ^^^^ P^^°^> ttie inner side of the ulnar artery, and a little behind it. It lies in a groove between the pisi- form and unciform bones, so that it is perfectly secure from pres- sure in this apparently exposed situation. Immediately below the pisiform bone, the nerve divides into a superficial and a deep palmar branch. The deep branch supplies the muscles of the little finger, and accompanies the ulnaris profunda artery into the palm, to supply all the interosseous muscles, and the two inner lumbricales. The superficial branch sends filaments to the pal- mans brevis, to the integument on the inner side of the palm, and then divides into two digital nerves, one for the supply of the S 2