STRUCTIIRK OF THE EYELIDS. 68 No fat is ever found on the eyelids ; nothing intervenes between the skin and the muscle but loose areolar tissue, that there may be no impediment to the free play of the lids. The orbicular muscle not only shuts the eye but protects it. When the eye is threatened by a blow, the muscle suddenly con- tracts, presses the eye back into the orbit, and contracts the skin of the brow and cheek so as to form a soft cushion in front of the orbit. The cushion itself may be severely bruised, as is seen in a ' black eye'; but the globe itself is rarely injured. When the eye is closed, as in winking, the palpebral portion of the muscle contracts. Observe this movement attentively, and see that the lids are drawn slightly inwards as well as closed. The object of this inward motion is to direct the tears towards the inner angle of the eyelids, where they are absorbed by the puncta lachry- malia. Since the orbicular muscle is supplied by the facial nerve, it is affected in facial palsy, and the patient cannot shut the eye. This arises from the superciliary ridge of the frontal JL°''erdlU°'' 'boiie, passes outwards, and is inserted into the under superci u. ^^^^^^^^ orbicularis oculi. It lies concealed be- neath the orbicularis, and is the proper muscle of frowning. This is situated on the bridge of the nose, on each Pyramicklis ^-^^ mesial line, and is regarded as a prolonga- "^"* tion of the occipito-frontalis. It mingles with the fibres of the compressor nasi, and its action is to elevate the skin of the nose, as in the expression of surprise. The present being a good opportunity to examine the structure of the eyelids, postpone for the present the dissection of the re- maining muscles of the face. Sthuctuke of the Eyelid?.—The eyelids are composed of dif- ferent tissues arranged in successive strata one beneath the other. There are—1, the skin; 2, the orbicularis palpebrai'um3, the expanded tendon of the levator palpebrse (in the upper lid only); 4, the tarsal cartilage and the palpebral ligament which extends from the margin of the orbit to the inner free margins of these cartilages ; 5, Meibomian glands; 6, mucous membrane. These