PNEUMOGASTRIC IN THE CHEST. 125 plexus (anterior cesophageal). The branches of the pneumogastric nerve in the chest are as follow:— a. The inferior laryngeal or recurrent.—This nerve on the right side turns under the subclavian and the common carotid artery (p. 53); on the left, under the arch of the aorta, and ascends to the larynx. It enters the larynx beneath the lower border of the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. It supplies with motor power all the muscles which act upon the rima glottidis, except the crico-thyroid (supplied by the external la- ryngeal branch of the superior laryngeal nerve). h. Cardiac branches.—These are very small, and join the cardiac plexuses; the right arise from the right recurrent laryngeal and the right pneumogastric, close to the trachea; the left come from the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. c. Pulmonale hra7iches.—These accompany the bronchial tubes. The greater number run behind the root of the lung, forming the posterior pulmonary plexus. A few, forming the anterior pul- monary plexus, proceed over the front of the lung's root. Both these plexuses are joined by filaments from the sympathetic system. But the nerves of the lungs are very small, and cannot be traced far into their substance."^ d. (Esophageal plexus.—Below the root of the lung each pneumogastric nerve is subdivided so as to form an interlacement of nerves round the oesophagus (plexus guise). From this plexus numerous filaments supply the coats of the tube ; but the majority of them are collected into two nerves—the continuation of the left pneumogastric nerve lying in front of the oesophagus ; the con- tinuation of the right lying behind it. Both nerves pass through the diaphragm for the supply of the stomach. Having examined the contents of the posterior mediastinum from the right side, now do so from the left. The left lung is to be turned out of its cavity and fastened by hooks towards the right side. After removing the pleura, we see the descending thoracic aorta, the pneumogastric nerve crossing the arch and sending the recurrent branch through it; also the first part of the * Upon this subject' see the beautiful plates of Scarpa.