BRANCHES OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID. 48 2. The posterior mejiinfjeal ascends with the internal jugular vein, and enters the cranium through the foramen jugulare to supply the dura mater. 3. The jprinceps cervicis, which we shall see better hereafter, runs down the Lack of the neck under the complexus, supplies this muscle and the semi-spinalis colli. The occipital vein usually terminates in the internal jugular, sometimes in the external. Posterior "^^^ posterior auricular artery, the fifth branch of ai^^icular the external carotid, arises above the digastric muscle, ^'^^'■y- and runs, under cover of the parotid gland, to the furrow between the cartilage of the ear and the mastoid process. Above the mastoid process it divides into two branches, a posterior which inosculates with the occipital, and an anterior which com- municates with the temporal. It supplies the back of the scalp and the cartilage of the ear. Its only named branch is the stylo- mastoid, a very constant little artery, which runs through the stylo-mastoid foramen to the tympanum of the ear. The posterior auricular nerve lies close to the corre- TuJcular spending artery. It is the first branch of the facial after its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen. It runs behind the ear and divides into an auricular branch which supplies the retrahens and attollens aurem, and an occipital branch distri- buted to the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis. This artery arises near the division of the common pha^Sgefl carotid. It ascends between the internal carotid and artery. ^j^^ g-^jg pharynx to the base of the skull, lying ui)on the rectus capitis anticus major. It gives off some pharyn- geal branches which supply the constrictor muscles. It then enters the pharynx above the free border of the superior con- strictor, and terminates on the soft palate, the Eustachian tube, and the tonsils. It gives off a meningeal branch, which passes through the foramen lacerum medmm to the dura mater in the middle fossa. The examination of the two remaining branches of the external carotid-namely, the internal maxillary and temporal, must be