288 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. Tliis muscle arises from the posterior surface of the ossislneta- ^^^^^ below the Supinator brevis, from the posterior carpi pol- surface of the radius, and from the interosseous liga- ment. The muscle crosses the radial extensors of the wrist about three inches above the carpus, and terminates in a tendon, which passes along a groove, lined by synovial membrane, on the outer part of the lower end of the radius, and is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and frequently also by a tendinous slip into the trapezium. „ This muscle arises from the posterior surface of the Extensor t t t i ,i •, , • primi in- radius and ulna, below the precedmg, and from the inter- teniodu osseous ligament. It turns over the radial extensors of pollicis. ° . 1 , . 1 the wrist, and terminates upon a tendon which passes beneath the annular ligament, through the groove on the outer part of the radius, and is inserted into the radial side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. ^ ^ Arises from the posterior surface of the ulna, and secundi inter- from the interosseous membrane. The tendon receives nodii pollicis. fleg]^y fibres as low as the wrist, passes beneath the annular ligament, in a distinct groove on the back of the radius, crosses the tendons of the radial extensors of the wrist, proceeds over the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx of the thumb, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx. The tendons of the three extensors of the thumb may be easily distinguished in one's own hand. The extensor ossis metacarpi, and primi internodii pollicis, cross obliquely over the radial artery, where it lies on the external lateral ligament of the carpus; the extensor secundi internodii pollicis crosses the artery just before it sinks into the palm, between the first and second metacarpal bones, and is a good guide to the vessel. The action of the three extensors of the thumb is implied by their names. This muscle arises from the posterior surface of the indS°or ulna, and from the interosseous ligament. The tendon indicator. passes beneath the posterior annular ligament, in the same groove on the back of the radius with the tendons of the extensor digitorum communis. It then proceeds over the back of