490 CALF OF THE LEG. The insertion of the semimembranosus into the head of the tibia, alluded to p. 483, should now be more fully examined. This muscle arises within the capsule of the knee- joint, from a depression on the outside of the external condyle by a thick tendon, which runs beneath the external lateral ligament. The muscular fibres gradually spread out, and are in- serted into the posterior surface of the tibia above the oblique ridge on the bone. It is supplied by a branch of the popliteal nerve which enters its deep surface. Its action is to flex the leg, and then to rotate the tibia inwards. The tendon plays over the articulation between the tibia and fibula ; and a bursa intervenes, which generally communicates by a wide opening with the knee- joint. Eeflect the soleus with its origin, and remove it from the deep- seated muscles, observing at the same time the numerous arteries which enter its under surface. This done, notice the fascia which binds down the deep muscles. It is attached to the margin of the bones on either side, and increases in strength towards the ankle, in order to form an annular ligament to confine the tendons and the vessels and nerves in their passage into the sole of the foot. ^ There are three:—1, the flexor longus digitorum on Deep MUSCLES . ON THE BACK the tibial side; 2, the flexor Jongus pollicis on the OF THE LEG. fj^i3^|aj.. 3^ ^he tlblalis posticus upon the interosseous membrane, between and beneath them both. This arises from the posterior surface of the tibia, commencing below the popliteus, and extending to within about four inches of the lower end of the bone. The fibres terminate on a tendon which runs through a groove behind the inner ankle, and entering the sole, divides into four tendons for the four outer toes. It is supplied by the posterior tibial nerve. This powerful muscle arises from the lower two-thirds Flexor longus the posterior surface of the fibula. The fibres ter- polUcis. ^ , 1 . T 11 minate on a tendon which runs through a groove on the back of the astragalus, and thence along the sole to the