190 SP H EX o-r- A r. AT IX E G AXf; 1.10 X. h. Spheno-palatine or 7iasal branches.—These, three or four m number, pass through the spheno-palatine foramen to the mucous membrane of the nose. To see them clearly, the parts should have been steeped for some time in dilute nitric acid: afterwards, when well washed, these minute nerves may be easily recognised beneath the mucous membrane covering the spongy bones. Most of them ramify upon the outer v/all of the nose and the spongy bones. One branch (fig. 42), originally called by Scarpa ' naso-'palatine,' traverses the roof of the nose, distributes filaments to the back part of the septum narium, and then pro- ceeds obliquely forwards along the septum to the foramen in- cisivum, through which it passes, and finally terminates in the palate behind the incisor teeth. According to Cloquet, the corresponding nerves of opposite sides unite at the foramen incisivum in a small ganglion which he calls the ' naso-palatine.'* c. Branches to the pharynx and Eustachian tube.—In parts prepared for the purpose we may sometimes trace minute fila- ments to the mucous membrane of the back of the nares, the Eustachian tube, and sphenoidal sinus. cl. Vidian branch.—This proceeds, from the posterior part of the ganglion, backwards through the vidian canal of the sphenoid bone, traverses the fibro-cartilage at the base of the skull, and here divides into two branches, fig. 43. One {the carotid) joins the sympathetic plexus about the internal carotid artery; the other (sometimes called the great petrosal) enters the cranium, runs under the Grasserian ganglion and the dura mater, in a small groove on the petrous portion of the temporal bone, enters the ' hiatus Fallopii,' and joins the facial nerve. It is probable that the vidian nerve proceeds, not from, but to the ganglion, and that power. In this ^new of the subject the nerre is considered to be the continuation or terminal branch of the motor root of the ganglion, that, namely, derived from the facial. This opinion is supported by cases in which the uvula is stated to have been drawn on one side in consequence of paralysis of the opposite facial nerve. However, we have not succeeded in tracing the nerve into those muscles. * Dissci't. sur les Odeurs et les Oiganes de I'Olfaction : Paris, 1816.