281 TRICEPS. fascia on the back of the forearm. The reason of this connection is, that the same muscle which extends the forearm may at the same time tig-hten the fascia which gives origin to the extensors of the wrist and fingers. This is just what we observed in the case of the biceps, and its semi-lunar expansion in the fascia of the forearm. Between the tendon and olecranon is a bursa, commonly of small size, but sometimes so large as to extend upwards behind the capsule of the joint. This bursa must not be mistaken for that which is always found between the skin and the olecranon, and is so often injured by a fall on the elbow. By dividing the triceps transversely a little above the elbow, and turning down the lower portion, it will be observed that some of the muscular fibres terminate upon the capsule of the joint. They have been described by some anatomists as a distinct muscle, under the name of ' suhanconetis;' their use is to draw up the capsule, so that it may not be injured during extension of the arm. The subanconeus is in this respect analogous to the sub- crurffius muscle of the thigh. Observe the bursa under the tendon^ and the arterial arch formed upon the back part of the capsule by the superior profunda and the anastomotica magna (fig. 50, p. 240). Trace the continuation of the superior profunda artery (p. 239), and musculo-spiral nerve round the posterior part of the humerus! They He in a groove on the bone, between the external and in- ternal heads of the triceps, and are protected by an aponeurotic arch thrown over them by the external head of the triceps. After supplying the muscles, the artery continues along the outer side of the arm between the braehialis anticus and supinator radii longus, and inosculates with the radial recurrent. It gives off a branch which runs down between the triceps and the bone, and inosculates at the back of the elbow with the anastomotica magna and posterior interosseous recurrent. The musculo-spiral nerve which accompanies the artery sends branches to supply the three portions of the triceps, the supinator radii longus, and extensor carpi radialis longior.* It then divides into the posterior inter- * In some (rare) instances, the braehialis anticus receives a branch from the musculo-spiral. >