CERVICAL FASCIA. 18 sheaths for the muscles, vesHels, and glands. It isolates them, and keeps them in their proper relative position. A lengthened description of its numerous layers would be not only extremely tedious, but unintelligible, without considerable knowledge of the anatomy of the neck. We propose, therefore, to give only a general outline of the fascia, and of its principal layers, com- mencing from behind. Tracing it from behind, we find that the cervical fascia (some- times called deep cervical or muscular fascia of the neck) is attached to the ligamentum nuchse and to the spinous and trans- verse processes of the cervical vertebrae. From these attachments it passes forwards to the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, where it splits into two layers, which invest that muscle and re- unite at its anterior border. It then passes towards the mesial line, where it becomes continuous with the corresponding fascia of the'opposite side. The layer which lies in front of the sterno- mastoid is attached above to the base of the inferior maxdla, to the zygoma, to the mastoid process, and the superior curved line of the occipital bone. Traced downwards, we find it attached to the clavicle and to the upper border of the sternum. In the middle line it is closely connected to the hyoid bone, and below the thyroid body divides into two layers, one being attached to the front ot the upper border of the sternum, the other to the back of the upper border of the same bone. Between these layers there is a well- marked interval, in which are contained more or less fat, and one or two small absorbent glands. This layer forms investing sheaths for the depressor muscles of the os hyoides and larynx. The other layer-viz., that which passes beneath the sterno-mastoid—forms the common sheath for the carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and the pneumo-gastric nerve, which lie behind this muse e- it proceeds inwards as a thin layer, and is continued behind the pharynx (constituting the pravertebral fascia) to join the fascia of the opposite side. Below, it is attached to the first rib, to which it binds down the intermediate tendon of the omo-hyoid; and still further down it is continuous with the external coat of the aorta and the pericardium. It may, also, be traced under the clavicle