FRONT OF THE LEG. 472 These muscles are situated on the outer side of the Musa.Es! fibula, and are named, respectively, peroneus longus and brevis. This arises from the outer surface of the fibula along longus*"^ its upper two-thirds. The fibres terminate in a penni- form manner upon a tendon, which runs through a groove behind the outer ankle, then along the outer side of the os calcis, and, lastly, through a groove on the under surface of the os cuboides deep into the sol It crosses the sole obliquely, and is inserted into the tarsal end of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. In its course through these several bony grooves the tendon is confined by a fibrous sheath, lined by a synovial membrane. In removing the metatarsal bone of the great toe, if possible, leave the insertion of this tendon. Its nerve comes from the peroneal. This muscle lies beneath the preceding. It arises from Peroneus about the middle third of the outer surface of the fibula, brevis. internal to the preceding muscle. It terminates on a tendon which runs behind the outer ankle, through the same sheath with the peroneus longus, then proceeds along the outside of the foot, and is inserted into the tarsal end of the metatarsal bone of the little toe.* Its nerve is from the anterior tibial. The action of the peronei is to raise the outer side of the foot.f This movement regulates the bearing of the foot in progression, so as to throw the principal part of the weight on the ball of the great toe. Its action is well exemplified in skating. Again, supposing the fixed point to be at the foot, they tend to prevent the body from falling on the opposite side, as when we balance ourselves on one leg. Near the inner side of the tendon of the biceps flexor p'^roneal. ^£ ^^^^ j^^^ l^xge nerve called the peroneal, a branch of the great ischiatic. By reflecting the upper part of * On the o^itside of the os calcis there is a ridge which separates the tendons of the peronei. Each has a distinct sheath. The short tendon runs above, the long one be- low the ridge. , i , • i, t In distortion of the foot outwards, called ' talipes valgus, it is generaUy neces- sary to divide the tendons of the peronei.