DISSECTION OF THE GEOIN. 442 middle,* another about the lower third of the thigh, and supply the skin on the inner side. The last-named branch communicates with branches from the obturator, and sometimes with the saphe- nous, about the middle of the thigh, and again with the latter a little above the knee. d. The d-urcd branch of the genito-crural nerve must be sought for carefully below Poupart's ligament: it perforates the fascia external to the femoral artery, and supplies the skin in front of the thigh. About two or three inches below the crural arch it usually communicates with the middle cutaneous nerve. e. The ilio-inguinal nerve, after emerging from the external abdominal ring, supplies the skin on the inner aspect of the thigh. . ^ Eemove the subcutaneous structure to examine the or^muscular muscular fascia, or ' fascia lata' of the thigh. The fascia. purpose of this fascia is to cover the muscles of the thigh collectively, and to form separate sheaths for each; so that it not only packs them together, but maintains each in its proper position. A knowledge of these sheaths is important, because they interfere with the progress of deep-seated matter towards the surface, and cause it to burrow in this or that direction ac- cording to the part in which it forms. The fascia is not of equal strength all round the thigh. It is comparatively thin and transparent on the inner side ; exceedingly thick and strong down the outer side: here, indeed, it has the appearance of a dense expanded tendon, strapping down the vastus externus muscle ; and it certainly performs the office of a tendon, for it gives insertion to two powerful muscles—namely, the tensor fasciae femoris, and the glutaeus maximus (iig. 98). The fascia lata is attached to the margin of the bones which constitute the framework of the lower extremity. Beginning from above, its attachment can be traced along the crest of the ileum, thence along the crural arch to the body of the pubes, and down * It is important to note that one, or sometimes t^vo, of these internal cutaBeous nerves cross the sheath of the femoral artery just where the sartorius begins to over- lap it; and therefore at the spot where it is usually tied. See diag., p. 453.