LIGAMENTS OF THE RIBS. 215 others downwards, giving it a cruciform appearance.* Thus it forms with the atlas a ring, into which the odontoid process is received. If this transverse ligament be divided, we observe that the odontoid process is covered with cartilage in front and behind, and is provided with two synovial membranes. Articulation -A-U the ribs, with the exception of the first and the of the ribs, two last, are articulated with the bodies of two vertebrae, and with the transverse processes. The head of each rib presents two articular surfaces, correspond- ing to the bodies of two vertebrae. There are two distinct articu- lations, each provided with a separate synovial membrane The ligaments are:—1. An anterior, which connects the head of the rib with the vertebrae, and with the intervening fibro-cartilage: this, on account of the divergence of its fibres, is called the ' stel- late ' ligament. 2. An inter-articular, which proceeds from the head of the rib to the intervertebral cartilage. The tubercle of the rib articulates with the transverse process. This articulation has a capsular and synovial membrane, and is secured by the following ligaments The posterior costo- transverse passes from the apex of the transverse process to the apex of the tubercle of the rib. 2. The middle costo-transverse connects the neck of the rib to the front surface of the transverse process. 3, The anterior costo-transverse ascends from the neck of the rib to the lower border of the transverse process above it. The head of the first rib articulates with a single vertebra. The eleventh and twelfth ribs articulate each with a single vertebra, and are not connected to the transverse processes. Connection cartilages of all the true ribs are received into between the slight concavities on the side of the sternum. In young tte ribf and that the cartilages of the six lower true tEe sternum. I'ibs have distinct articulations provided with synovial membranes. They are secured in front and behind by strong ligamentous fibres, which proceed from the cartilages and radiate upon the sternum, crossing those of the opposite side. * This is not shown in the diagram.