78 PAROTID GLAND. strong layer of fascia, a continuation of the cervical. It not only envelopes the gland, but sends down numerous partitions which form a framework for its lobes. The density of this sheath ex- plains the pain caused by inflammation of the gland, the tardi- ness with which abscesses within it make their way to the surface, and the propriety of an early opening. The deep surface of the gland is irregular, and moulded upon the subjacent parts. Thus, it passes inwards between the neck of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament; it extends upwards and occupies the posterior part of the glenoid cavity; below, it reaches the styloid process, and sometimes penetrates deep enough to touch the internal jugular vein. That portion of the gland which lies on the masseter muscle is called ' glandula soda parotidisJ' It varies in size in different subjects ; and is situated chiefly above the parotid duct, into which it pours its secretion by one or two smaller ducts. The duct of the parotid gland (ductus Stenonis *) is thick and strong, and about two inches long. In this respect it differs from the duct of the submaxillary gland, which is less exposed to in- jury. It runs transversely forwards over the masseter, about an inch below the zygoma, perforates the buccinator obliquely, and opens into the mouth opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. Near its termination it is crossed by the zygomaticus major and the facial vein. After perforating the buccinator, the duct passes for a short distance between the muscle and the mucous membrane. Its orifice is small and contracted compared with the diameter of the rest of the duct, which will admit a crow-quill; it is not easily found in the mouth, being concealed by a fold of mucous membrane. Since it is desirable, in operations about the face, to avoid in-, juring the parotid duct, it is well to know that the precise direc- tion of the duct corresponds with a line drawn from the middle of the lobule of the ear to a point midway between the nose and the upper lip. * Nic. Steno, De glandulis oris, &c. Lugd. Bat. 1661.