MUSCLES OF THE IJACK. _ Ihe posterior divisions of the six lower cervical nerves divide into external and internal branches. The external are small and terminate in the splenitis, and the continuation of the erector spinae, VIZ., the trachelo-mastoid, the transversalis colli, and the cervicaUs ascendens. The internal, by far the larger, proceed towards the spines of the vertebrjB ; those of the third, fourth and fifth he between the complexus and the semispinalis,* and after supplying the muscles terminate in the integument; those of the sixth seventh, and eighth lie between the semispinalis and the multifidus spinas, to which they are distributed. Dorsal posterior divisions of the spinal nerves in this region. region come out between the transverse processes and the tendons attached to them. They soon divide into extei-nal and %nternal branches. The external pass obliquely over the levatores costarum, between the sacro-lumbalis and the longis- s-imus dorsi; and successively increase in size from above down- wards. The upper six terminate in the erector spinae and the levatores costarum ; the rest, after supplying these muscles, pass through the latissimus dorsi, and become the cutaneous nerves of the back. The internal successively decrease in size from above downwards. They run towards the spine between the semispinalis dorsi and the multifidus spintB. The upper six, after giving branches to the muscles, perforate the trapezius and become cutaneous nerves. The lower ones terminate in the muscles of the vertebral groove. Lumbar general arrangement of the nerves in this region region. resembles that of the dorsal. Their external branches, after supplying the erector spina?, become cutaneous and terminate in the skin over the buttock. The internal branches supply the multifidus spinae. Sacral '^^^ posterior divisions of the spinal nerves in this regTra. ^''^ '^"^all. With the exception of the last, they come out of the spinal canal through the foramina in # The posterior branches of the second, third, and fourth nerves are generally con- nected, beneath the complexus, by branches in the form of loops. This constitutes the posterior cervical plexus of some anatomists.