275 MUSCLES or TUB SHOULDER. anatomists ascribe to it the power of raising the ribs; hence Sir Charles Bell called it the external respiratory muscle, as opposed to the internal respiratory muscle, the diaphragm. The nerve which supplies it is a branch of the fifth and sixth cervical nerve: it descends along its outer surface (p. 226). Divide the serratus magnus near the scapula, and remove the arm by sawing through the middle of the clavicle, cutting through the axillary vessels and nerves. These should be tied to the coracoid process. After the removal of the arm, examine the precise insertion of the preceding muscles. DISSECTION OF THE MUSCLES OP THE SHOULDEE. Cutane I^^ssect first the cutaneous nerves of the shoulder; ne'lrreTof the derived, partly from the branches of the shoulder. cervical plexus which descend over the acromion (p. 17), partly from the circumflex nerve, of which one or two branches turn round the posterior border of the deltoid; others perforate the muscle, each accompanied by a small artery Notice the strong layer of fascia upon the surface of the del- toid which extends from the aponeurosis covering the muscles on the back of the scapula, and is continuous with the fascia of the arm. It dips down between the fibres of the muscle, dividing It into large bundles. This fascia must be removed. Deltoid. g^^eat muscle which covers the shoulder-joint is named deltoid, from its resemblance to the Greek A reversed. It arises from the external third of the clavicle, from the acromion, and from the spine of the scapula down to the triangular surface at its root. This origin, which corresponds to the insertion of the trapezius, is tendinous and fleshy everywhere except at the commencement of the spine of the scapula, where it s simply tendinous, and connected with the in fra-spinous aponeu- rosis. The muscular fibres descend, the anterior backwards, the posterior forwards, the middle perpendicularly; all converge to a tendon which is ^nserted into a rough surface oL the outer fide of