BRANCHES OF ABDOMINAL AORTA. 342 supply of the caecum. Thus its course describes a gentle curve from left to right. It gives off the following branches: 1, the pancreatico duodenal branch, given off close to its origin, runs up to inosculate with a similar named branch of the hepatic artery; 2, branches to the small intestines from ten to sixteen in number are given off from the left or convex side of the curve; while from the concave side come, 3, the ileo-colic; 4, the right colic; and 5, the middle colic arteries for the supply of the upper half of the large intestines. The student should now trace the branches to the small intes- tines,, in order to see the beautiful series of arches which they form by their miutual inosculations. There are three or four tiers of them, each tier composed of smaller and more numerous branches than the preceding. The ultimate branches ramify in circles round the intestine. This circular arrangement of the vessels in the coats of the bowel is practically interesting, because it enables one in almost all cases to distinguish the intestine from the hernial sac. The colic branches of the superior mesenteric are the ileo-colic, which is the continiiation of the main trunk, and divides into two branches; one supplies the lower part of the ileum, and the other the csecura :—the right colic, which proceeds towards the ascending colon, and the middle colic, which ascends between the layers of the meso-colon to the arch. They are arranged after the same plan as those of the small intestines ; that is, they inosculate so as to form a series of arches which successively decrease in size and finally ter- minate in circles round the bowel. The superior mesenteric vein joins the splenic behind the pan- creas, and forms the vena portee (p. 339). To trace this artery,the small intestines must be drawn interic Zevj over towards the right side, and the peritoneum covering and branches, the artery removed. It is given off about two inches above the bifurcation of the aorta. Descending into the pelvis over the left common iliac artery, it passes between the layers of the meso-rectum, and, taking the name of superior hsemorrhoidal is finally distributed to the upper part of the rectum. Its branches