479 POPLITEAL SPACE. ischiatic artery. The muscular branches which it gives off are, one or more, which enter the under surface of the glutaeus maxi- mus. All its other branches are cutaneous. One turns round the lower border of the glutseus maximus, and supplies the skin of the buttock. Another, the long pudendal (p. 367), turns inwards towards the perineum, to supply the skin of that region and the scrotum. The continued trunk runs down the back of the thigh beneath the muscular fascia, as low as the upper part of the calf, supplying the skin all the way down. This branch of the internal iliac leaves the pelvis artery/" below the pyriformis, and then descends between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter, along the inner side of the great ischiatic nerve. It gives off—1, two or more considerable branches to the glutaeus maximus; 2, a coccygeal branch, which runs through the great sacro-ischiatic ligament, then ramifies in the glutaeus maximtis, and on the back of the coccyx; 3, the comes nervi ischiatici; 4, branches to the several external rotator muscles; lastly, branches which supply the upper part of the hamstring muscles; and others which inoscidate with the internal circumflex and obturator arteries (p. 462). Pudicarter "^^^ course of this artery and nerve has been fully andnerre/^ described (p. 374). Observe now that they pass over the spine of the ischium, accompanied by the nerve to the obturator internus, and that in a thin subject it is possible to compress the artery against tlie spine. The rule for finding it is this: rotate the foot inwards, and draw a line from the top of the great trochanter to the base of the coccyx; the junction of the inner with the outer two-thirds gives the situation of the artery.* PoFiiTEAi, advisable to examine the popliteal space at this SPACE. stage of the dissection, in order that the various parts may be carefully made out with as little disturbance as possible of their mutual relations. A vertical incision must be made along the middle of the ham, * Mr. Travers succeeded in arresting hsemorrhage from a sloughing ulcer of the glans penis by pressing the pudic artery with a cork against the spine of the ischium.