CONTENTS OF FEMALE PELVIS. 417 different females, and is the last indication of the two horns of the uterus in some orders of mammalia. The interior of the uterus is smooth at the fundus ; but the reverse at the cervix. Here there is a central longitudinal rido-e, both in front and behind (as in the vagina) ; from these, other closely set oblique ridges curve off laterally, like the branches of a palm-tree. The old anatomists called it ' arbor vitce.' The roughness produced by these ridges, occasions an impression as though we were touching cartilage when a metallic sound is in- troduced into the uterus. The neck of the uterus is provided with small muciparous glands, of which the minute ducts open in the furrows between the ridges referred to. The secretion of these glands is glairy, albuminous, and sbghtly alkaline. Soon after conception, the secretion dries up so as to plug the mouth of the uterus, but shortly before and durmg parturition it is poured out in great quantity, to facilitate the passage of the child. It happens, occasionally that one or more of the ducts of these glands become obstructed, and then dilate into small transparent vesicles, which gradually rise to the surface and burst. These were first described by N'aboth,* and supposed to be true ova : hence their name ' ovula Nahothi) The mucous membrane of the uterus is much more delicate than that of the vagina, with which it is continuous, and is closely united to the subjacent tissue. The greater part of it is lined by a columnar ciliated epithelium, but that which lines the cervix is squamous, like that of the vagina. Examined with a lens, the mucous membrane lining the body of the uterus is seen to be covered with minute follicles or tubes arranged at right angles to its surface. These follicles consist of simple tubes which pass outwards in a spirally coiled manner, some of them appearing branched and dilated at their extremities. These tubes become greatly developed shortly after impregnation, and are presumed to take an important part m the formation of the ' membrana decidua: The greater portion of the walls of the uterus consists of muscular fibres of the unstriped or involuntary kind, which are chiefly * De sterilitate mulierum. Lips., I707. E E