DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 565 forming a little prominence to which the term ^ pcvpilla conica^ has been applied.* In front the retina ter- minates in a thin serrated border (ora ser- ^^S-136. rata), which ends a short distance behind the posterior margin of the ciliary processes. Precisely opposite the pupil there is a bright yellow spot, macula lutea, in the retina, about -^^th of an inch in diameter, fading off gradually at the edges, and having a black spot, fovea centralis, in the centre, ^i^tbries of the ebtina. This central spot was believed by its dis- canai of Petit (inflated). Zone of Ziun (exaggerated). coverer, Soemmering,! to be a perforation; but it is now ascertained to depend upon the absence of the yellow colour in the centre: so that the dark pigment of the choroid becomes conspicuous. These appearances are lost soon after death, and are replaced by a minute fold, into which the retina gathers itself, reaching from the centre of the spot to the promi- nence of the optic nerve. The use of this yellow spot is not understood.! Its elaborate "^^^^^^^g^ ^0 the naked eye the retina appears a organLtiou! simple, soft, semi-transparent membrane, yet, when examined with the microscope, it is found to be most minutely and elaborately organised. It varies in thickness from the J-^th to the gLth of an inch, and consists of four layers, named from without inwards, the columnar layer or membrana Jacobi, the granular layer, the nervous layer, and the vascular layer. The columnar layer or membrana Jacobi ยง is composed of minute cylindrical transparent rods arranged at right angles to the surface of the retina. Their outer extremities are imbedded to a greater or less depth in the dark pigment of the choroid, so that * This promiuence is remarkable, in that it is insensible to the rays of light, t De foramine centrali, &c., retinae humanEe; in Comment. Soc. Getting, t 13. t In birds the retina has throughout the yellowish colour seen only at one part in the human eye. ยง After it.s di..covert.r, Dr. Jacob of Dublin, who described it in the Philosophical Tran.saction.s, 1819.