DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. 199 nasal cavities. Upon the lower half of the septum, and the lower turbinated bones it is much thicker than elsewhere, in consequence of a minute plexus of arteries and veins in the submucous tissue. In the sinuses, the mucous membrane is thinner, less vascular, and closely applied upon the periosteum. The great vascularity of the Schneiderian membrane is obviously intended to elevate the temperature of the inspired air, and to pour out a copious secretion which prevents the membrane from becoming too diy. Near the nostrils the mucous membrane is furnished with papillae, a squamous epithelium, like the skin, and a few small hairs (vihnssce). In the sinuses and all the lower regions of the nose, the epithelium is columnar, and provided with cilia; but in the upper part of the nose, where the sense of smell resides, we no longer find ciliated epithelium, but columnar; beneath which is a stratum of nucleated cells.* ■ Blood-vessels arteries of the nose are, the ethmoidal and of the interior nasal branches of the ophthalmic, and the nasal branch of the nose. „f ai, • / i ot the internal maxillary, which enters the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen. The external nose is supplied by the arteria lateralis nasi. The veins of the nose correspond to the arteries. They com- municate with the veins within the cranium through foramina in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, also through the oph- thalmic vein and the cavernous sinus. These communications explain the relief afforded by haemorrhage from the nose in cases of cerebral congestion. Olfactory The olfactoiy nerves, proceeding from each olfactory nerves. bulb, in number about twenty on either side, pass through the foramina in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. In its passage each nerve is invested with a coat derived from the dura mater. They are divided into an inner, ^ middle, and an outer set. The inner traverse the grooves on the upper third of the septum. The middle supply the roof of tne nose. The outer pass through grooves in the upper and * Bowman and Todd's Physiolog. Anatom., cap. xvi.