MUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ARM. 269 descend over the crest of the ilium, and terminate in the skin of the buttock. Of these cutaneous nerves notice particularly the following:— The jposterioT branch of the second cervical nerve is called the great occipital. It perforates the complexus, and ramifies upon the scalp, with the branches of the occipital artery. The cutaneous branch of the third cervical nerve also sends a branch to the back of the scalp. The cxitaneous branch of the second dorsal nerve is the largest of all the dorsal cutaneous nerves. It may be traced outwards towards the spine of the scapula. The posterior branch of the second lumbar nerve perforates the fascia lumborum near the posterior superior spine of the ilium, and runs over the crest of the ilium, to supply the skin of the buttock. The trapezius and latissimus dorsi, which form the first layer of muscles, must now be cleaned by dissecting in the course of their fibres. Alone, this muscle is triangular; with its fellow, it Trapezius. • i p -T • n presents a trapezoid lorm. It arises from the inner fourth, more or less, of the superior curved line of the occiput; from the ligamentum nuchge,* from the spines of the seventh cervical, and all the dorsal vertebrse, and from their supraspinous ligaments. The fibres converge towards the shoulder. The upper are inserted fleshy into the external third of the clavicle; the middle, into the inner border of the acromion and spine of the scapula; the lower terminate in a thin tendon, Avhich plays over the triangular surface at the back of the scapula, and is inserted into the beginning of the spine. The insertion of the trapezius exactly corresponds to the origin of the deltoid, and the two * The ' ligamentum nuchae ' is, in man, only a rudiment of the great elastic ligament which supports the weight of the head in quadrupeds. It extends from the spine of the occiput to the spines of all the cervical vertebrse except the atlas; otherwise it would impede the free rotation of the head. In the giraffe this ligament is six feet long, and as thick as a man's forearm. I am told by Professor Quekett, that when divided it shrinks at least two feet.