260 DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF THE HAND. ulnar side of the little finger, and the other for the contiguous sides of the little and rini; finfjers. The digital branches run along the sides of the fingers to their extremities superficial to their corresponding arteries. The more external of the two branches communicates with the median nerve behind the superficial palmar arch. Anterior This exceedingly strong and thick ligament confines annular the flexor tendons of the fingers and thumb, and fastens fclu^uf together the bones of the carpus. It is attached exter- nally to the scaphoid and trapezium ; internally to the pisiform and unciform. Its upper border is continuous with the aponeurosis in front of the wrist; its lower terminates in the palmar fascia; its anterior surface receives the expanded tendon of the palmaris longus, and gives origin to most of the muscles constituting the ball of the thumb and little finger. Cut vertically through the ligament, and observe, that, with the carpal bones, it forms an elliptical canal, with the broad diameter transversely. This canal is lined by a synovial membrane whicb is reflected loosely over the tendons. Superficial to the ligament, pass the palmaris longus, the ulnar artery and nerve, and the palmar branch of the median nerve; beneath it, pass the super- ficial and deep flexor tendons of the fingers, the long flexor tendon of the thumb, and the median nerve. The tendon of the flexor cai'pi radialis does not run with the other tendons, but is con- tained in a distinct sheath, lined by a separate synovial membrane, formed partly by the annular liganient and partly by the groove in the trapezium. In its passage under the annular ligament, the inThe palm^° median nerve is enveloped in a fold of synovial mem- brane. It lies between the tendons of the flexor sublimis and those of the flexor profundus, and is rather nearer to the radial than the ulnar side of the wrist. As soon as it appears in the palm, the nerve lies superficial to all the tendons, and then divides into two branches; the external gives off branches to the muscles of the ball of the thumb, namely, to the abductor pollicis, the opponens pollicis, and the outer head of the flexor brevis