STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. 147 white, but in catarrhal affections it becomes bright red, in con- sequence of the accumulation of blood in the capillary vessels. It is continued into the ultimate air-cells, where it becomes thinner and more transparent. Its surface is lined by a layer of epithe- lium of the ciliated kind, of which the vibratile movement is directed in such a way as to favour the expectoration of the mucus. The ciliated epithelium lining the mucous membrane ceases at the commencement of the air-cells, where it is replaced by the squamous variety. At the root of the lung each bronchus divides into two branches, an upper and a lower, corresponding to the lobes of the lung ; on the right side the lower branch sends a small division to the third lobe. The tubes diverge through the lung, and divide into branches, successively smaller and smaller, until they lead to the air-cells. These ramifications do not communicate with each other, they are like the branches of a tree ; hence when a bronchial tube is obstructed, all supply of air is cut off from the cells to which it leads. The several tissues, cartilaginous, fibrous, muscular, mucous, and glandular, which collectively compose the air-passages, are not present in equal proportions throughout all their ramifications, but each is placed in greater or less amount where it is required. The cartilaginous rings, necessary to keep the larger bronchi per- manently open, become in the smaller tubes fewer and less regular in form: as the subdivisions of the tubes multiply, the cartilages consist of small pieces placed here and there,—they become less and less firm, and finally disappear altogether. The walls of the air-passages, when no longer traceable by the naked eye, are entirely membranous, being formed of fibrous, elastic, and muscular tissues. The surface of the healthy lung is marked by faint Uie'iung"^ white lines, which map it out into a number of angular spaces of various size. These spaces indicate the lobules of the lung. Each lobule is a lung in miniature. Whoever understands the structure of a single lobule, understands the struc- ture of the entire lung. The lobules are connected by fine areolar 1. 2