SYMPATHETIC NERVE IN THE NECK. 99 Now examine the cervical ganglia of the sympathetic n^r*^^*'° system of nerves. Speaking in general terms of tliis system, it may be said that it consists of a series of ganglia arranged on either side of the spine, from the first cervical to the last sacral vertebra. The successive ganglia of the same side are connected by intermediate nerves, so as to form a con- tinuous cord on each side of the spine: this constitutes what is called the trunk of the sympathetic system, and is connected with all the spinal nerves. Its upper or cephalic extremity penetrates into the cranium through the carotid canal, surrounds the internal carotid artery, communicates with the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cranial nerves, and joins its fellow of the opposite side upon the anterior communicating artery.* Its sacral extremity joins its fellow by means of a little ' ganglion impar,' situated in the mesial line, upon the last sacral vertebra. The sympathetic system presides over the functions of those organs which are withdrawn from our control. Thus it regulates the circulation of the blood, respiration, digestion, and secretion. Cervical gan- cervjlcal portion of the sympathetic are three gliaofsym- ganglia, named from their position, superior, middle, pathetic. j • • ^ and mierior. The superior cervical ganglion, the largest of the three, is situated near the base of the skull, opposite the bodies of the second and third cervical vertebrae, and lies behind the internal carotid artery, upon the rectus capitis anticus major. It is of a reddish-grey colour like other ganglia, of an elongated oval shape, varying in length from one to two inches. To facilitate the description of its several branches we divide them into—1st, those which are presumed to connect it with other nerves ; and 2ndly, those which originate from it. It is then connected by branches as follow: — a. With each of the four upper spinal nerves. b. With the hypoglossal, pneumogastric, and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. * Here is situated the ' so-called' ganglion of Eibes. H 2