LATERAL VENTRICLES. 531 The two cavities called the ' lateral ventricles' are ventrfcles. Situated, One in each hemisphere of the brain, beneath the corpus callosum. A longitudinal incision should be made on each side, about half an inch from the raphe of the corpus callosum. Care must be taken not to cut too near the middle line, in order to preserve the delicate partition which de- scends from the under surface of the corpus callosum, and separates the ventricles from each other. They should be laid open through- out their whole extent. Their general form should be first ex- amined ; afterwards the several objects contained in them. The lateral ventricles are two cavities in the general mass of the brain, occasioned by the enlargement and folding backward of the cerebral lobes over the other parts of the central nervous axis. They are lined with a ciliated spheroidal epithelium, and contain a serous fluid, which, even in a healthy brain, sometimes exists in considerable quantity: when greatly in excess, it constitutes one form of the disease termed ' hydrocephalus.' The ventricles are crescentic in shape, with their backs towards each other. Each extends into the three lobes of the cerebral hemisphere, and consists of a central part or hody, and three horns, or cornua, anterior, middle, and posterior. The body, situated in the middle of the hemisphere, is separated from its fellow by the septum lucidum. Its roof is formed by the corpus callosum; and on the floor, beginning from the front, are seen, the corpus striatum, the taenia semicircularis, the optic thalamus, the choroid plexus, and the fornix. The anterior liorn extends into the anterior lobe,' and as it passes forwards, slightly diverges from its fellow on the opposite side. The ^posterior horn may be traced into the posterior lobe, where it passes at first backwards and outwards, and then converges towards its fellow. In it take notice of an elevation of white matter, the 'hippocampus minor;' also of a triangular flat surface, called ' pes accessorius ' or ' eminentia collateralis.'* The for it has been found absent in the human subject without any particular intellectual Str!: —rfo^' ^« * The posterior horns are not always equally developed in both hemispheres, and ?I >I 2