28 INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. down the inner border of the sterno-mastoid; we cut through the platysma and cervical fascia, draw aside the overlapping edge of the sterno-mastoid, and expose the sheath of the vessel. We then make a small opening in the sheath large enough to admit the aneurismal needle, and tie the vessel, taking care not to include the pneumogastric or descendens noni nerves in the ligature. In what In the first part of its course the left carotid differs respects the from the right in the following particulars:— dlfferrfrom 1- It arises from the arch of the aorta, is therefore the right. longer and deeper seated than the right, and is covered by the first bone of the sternum. 2. It is crossed by the left brachio-cephalic vein. 3. It is in close relation with the oesophagus. 4. It is in close relation with the left recurrent nerve. 5. It is in close relation with the thoracic duct. The common carotid at its division is often a little of thT'^ bulbous. This dilatation is sometimes so marked, that common during life we have seen it mistaken for an incipient ^'"^^^ ' ■ aneurism. It is necessary to be aware that the carotid sometimes divides much lower than usual. Several times we have seen the division as low as the level of the cricoid cartilage. I ternal "^^^^ internal jugular vein returns the blood from the jugular brain. Leaving the skull at the foramen jugulare, the vein. Ygjj^ descends on the outer side of the carotid, but in the sheath with it, and joins the subclavian vein at nearly a right ano-le to form the brachio-cephalic. In its course down the neck it receives the pharyngeal, occipital, lingual, facial, superior and middle thyroid veins. Previous to its termination the internal jugular advances slightly to meet the subclavian vein, so that it lies on a plane a little ante- rior to the carotid. Besides which, the direction of the vein being perpendicular, and that of the artery oblique, there is necessarily a small interval between them at the lower part of the neck, more especially on the right side. In this interval we find the pneumo- gastric nerve, and, deeper, the vertebral artery. Here, too, on the left side, we look for the thoracic duct.