476 GLUT-(EAL REGION. Gluteal '^^^'^ glutoeal artery is the largest branch of the in- vessols and ternal iliac (p. 387). Emerging from the pelvis through the great ischiatic notch above the pyriformis, it divides into large branches for the supply of the glutseal muscles. Of these, some (superficial) proceed forwards between the glutaeus naaximus and medius ; others (deep) run in curves between the glutceus medius and minimus, towards the anterior part of the ileum. Many of them inosculate with branches of the external circumflex. The nerve which accompanies the glutaeal artery is a branch of the lumbo-sacral nerve (p. 391). It subdivides to supply the glutaeus medius and minimus, and the tensor fasciae; in some subjects it sends a branch to the glutaeus maximus; but this muscle is chiefly supplied by the lesser ischiatic nerve. A practical surgeon ought to be able to cut down and tie the glutaeal artery as it emerges from the pelvis. The following is the best rule for finding it:—the toes are supposed to be turned in- wards. Draw a line from the posterior superior spine of the ileum to the midspace between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter. The artery emerges from the pelvis at the point where the superior third joins the two inferior thirds of this line.* Now examine the series of muscles which rotate the thigh out- wards—namely, the pyriformis, the obturator internus, the gemelli, the quadratus femoris, and the obturator externus. This muscle lies immediately below and parallel to Pyriformis. lower fibres of the glutaeus medius. It arises from the front surface of the sacrum between the holes for the sacral nerves, and from the margin of the great sacro-ischiatic notch. The fibres converge to a tendon which is inserted into the upper border of the trochanter major. Its nerve comes from the sacral plexus. This muscle, of which we can at present see little Obturator j^Qj-g than the tendon, arises within the pelvis, from the internus. ... , ischium between the great ischiatic notch and the obtu- * The operation of tying the glutaeal artery was first performed by John Bell. See his ' Principles of Surgery,' vol. i. p. 421.