159 TONSILS. soft palate to the side of the tongue, and is lost in the stjdo-glossus muscle. The palato-'pharyngeus, within the posterior arch, arises from the posterior border of the soft palate by two origins separated by the levator palati. It descends to the side of the pharynx, and mixes with the fibres of the inferior constrictor and the stylo-pha- ryngeus. Tonsils '^^^ tonsils are situated at the entrance of the fauces, between the arches of the palate. Their use is to lubricate the fauces during the passage of the food. On their inner surface are visible from twelve to fifteen orifices leading into depressions which give the tonsil an appearance like the shell of an almond. Hence, as well as from their oval figure, they are called the ' amygdalce.^ These openings lead into small follicles in the substance of the tonsil, lined by mucous membrane. Their walls are thick, and formed by a layer of closed cells situated in the submucous tissue. The cells secrete a glairy fluid, and closely resemble 'Peyers" glands found in the intestines. The fluid, viscid and transparent, in the healthy state, is apt to become white and opaque in in- flammatory aff"ections of the tonsils, and occasionally accumulates in these superficial depressions, giving rise to the deceptive appear- ance of a small ulcer, or even a slough in the part. Concerning the relations of the tonsil, remember that it lies close to the inner side of the internal carotid artery. It is only separated from this vessel by the superior constrictor and the aponeurosis of the pharynx. Therefore, in removing a portion of the tonsil, or in opening an abscess near it, the point of the in- strument should never be directed outwards, but imuards towards the mesial line.* The tonsils are supplied with blood by the tonsillar branch of the external maxillary, and the descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary. This canal conveys air from the pharynx to the Jiustachian . „ r .^ -r. . tube. tympanum ot the ear. Its orifice is situated opposite the back part of the inferior spongy bone. The direc- * Cases are related by Portal and Bdclard, in which tlie carotid artery was punctured in opening an abscess in the tonsil. The result was immediately fatal hsemorrhage.