DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF THE HAND. iG2 tributed to the skin around and beneath the root of the nail. Each nerve terminates near the end of the finger in a brush of filaments, with their points directed to the papillse of the skin. Flexor ton- Immediately below the annular ligament the tendons dons and separate from each other; near the metacarpal ioints their sheaths. . . , 1 J they pass m pau\s, through strong fibrous nngs (p. 256) formed by the divisions of the palmar fascia. Below the meta- carpal joint the two tendons for each finger enter the sheath (theca), which confines them in their course along the phalanges. It is formed by a strong fibrous membrane, which is attached to the ridges on the phalanges, and converts the groove in front of these bones into a complete canal, exactly large enough to contain the tendons. The density of the sheath varies in particular situations, otherwise there would be an obstacle to the easy flexion of the fingers. To ascertain this, cut open one of the sheaths along its entire length; you will then see that it is much stronger between the joints than over the joints themselves. Through these sheaths, inflammation commencing in the integu- ments of the finger may readily extend to the synovial membi-ane of the tendon. In cases of whitlow, when matter forms in the theca, the incision should be made deep enough to lay open this fibro-osseous canal, without which the incision will be of no use. It is obvious that the incision should be made down the centre of the finger, to avoid the digital nerves and arteries. If this opening be not timely made, the flexor tendons are likely to slough, and the finger becomes stiff.* But what protects the joints of the fingers where the flexor * On closer inspection it will be observed that the sheath is composed of bands of fibres, -which take different directions, and have received distinct names. The strongest are called the 'ligamenta vaginalia.' They constitute the sheath over the body of the phalanx, and extend transversely from one side of the bone to the other. The 'ligamenta cruciata' are two slips, which cross obliquely over the tendons. The ' ligamenta anmdaria' are situated immediately in front of the joints, and may be considered as thin continuations of the ligamenta vaginalia. They consist of delicate fibres, which are attached on either side of the joints to the glenoid ligaments, and pass transversely over the tendons.