110 LEFT CAROTID ARTERY. From the upper part of the arch arise three great arteries for the head, neck, and upper limbs ; namely, the brachio-cephalic or innominate artery, the left carotid, and the left subclavian. This arises from the commencement of the trans- phalic or^iii- verse part of the arch. It ascends obliquely towards nominate the right, and after a course of about one inch and a arteiy. }^.^]{^ divides behind the right sterno-clavicular joint into two arteries of nearly equal size—the right carotid, and the right subclavian. What are the relations of the innominate artery? It ascends obliquely in front of the trachea; the right brachio-cephalic vein descends on its right side; the left brachio-cephalic and inferior thyroid veins cross in front of it: parallel and close to the artery are the slender cardiac nerves.'^ With the anatomy of the parts before you, it is easy to under- stand that an aneurism of the innominate artery might be distin- guished from an aneurism of the aorta—I. By a pulsation in the neck between the sterno-mastoid muscles, i.e. in the fossa above the sternum; 2. By occasional dyspnoea owing to pressure on the trachea; 3. By venous congestion in the left arm; 4. By the aneurismal thrill being confined to the rigid arm. This artery arises from the arch of the aorta close to arter^^™*^^'^ the arteria innominata. It ascends obliquely behind the first bone of the sternum to the neck. In the first part of its course it lies upon the trachea, but it soon passes to the left side of the trachea, and then lies for a short distance upon the oesophagus and thoracic duct. It is crossed by the left brachio- cephalic vein; on its outer side are the left subclavian artery and feecond costal articulation. The highest part of the arch was on a level with the tipper border of the stermim; the arteria innominata was situated entirely in front of the trachea; and the left brachio-cephalic vein crossed the trachea so much above the sternum that it would have been directly exposed to injury in tracheotomy. * In some cases the innominate artery ascends for a short distance above the clavicle before it divides, lying close to the right of the trachea. "We have already aUiided to the fact that it occasionally gives oifa middle thyroid artery (p. 31), which ascends in front of the trachea to the thyroid body, and is therefore directly in the way in tracheotomy.