290 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. In the lower part of the back of the forearm, a branch of the anterior interosseous artery is seen passing through the interosseous membrane to reach the back of the wrist (see p. 254). Posterior '^^^ uerve wliich supplies the muscles on the back of interosseous tlie forearm is the posterior inieroaseous, a branch of nerve. ^j^^ musculo-spiral. It passes obliquely tlirough the supinator radii brevis, and descends between the superficial and deep layer of muscles on the back of the forearm, sending to each a filament, generally in company with a branch of the posterior interosseous artery. It sends a branch to the extensor carpi radialis brevior, and supplies the supinator brevis in passing through its substance. The supinator radii longus and the ex- tensor carpi radialis longior are supplied by distinct branches from the musculo-spiral. The continuation of the posterior interosseous nerve descends beneath the extensor secundi internodii pollicis and the tendons of the extensor digitorum communis to the back of the wrist. Behind the common extensor tendons the nerve forms a kind of gangliform enlargement from which filaments are sent to the carpal and metacarpal joints. ^ ^. ^ ^ Trace the continuation of the radial artery over the on the back*^ external lateral Ugament of the carpus, beneath the of the wrist, extensor tendons of the thumb, to the upper part of the interval between the first and second metacarpal bones, where it sinks between the two origins of the abductor indicis, and entering the palm, forms the deep palmar arch. In this part of its course it is crossed by filaments of the radial nerve; observe, also, that the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis passes over it immediately before it sinks into the palm. It supplies the following small branches to the back of the hand: — a. Posterior carpal artery.—This branch passes across the carpal bones, beneath the extensor tendons. It inosculates with the termination of the anterior interosseous artery, and with a corresponding branch from the ulnar artery. The carpal artery sends off small branches, called the dorsal interosseous, which descend along the third and fourth interosseous spaces, beneath