571 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. The nerves are furnished by the auriculo-parotidean branch of the cervical plexus, the tempore- auricular branch of the inferior max- illary, the posterior auricular branch of the facial, and Arnold's nerve from the pneumogastric. Meatus "^^^^ passage leads down to the membrana tympani, auditorius or drum of the ear. It is about an inch and a quarter ejcternus. length; its external opening is broadest in its verti- cal direction; its termination is broadest in its transverse. The canal inclines at first upwards and forwards, and then curves a little downwards.* It is not throughout of the same calibre, the narrowest part being about the middle; hence the difficulty of extracting foreign bodies which have passed to the bottom of the canal. It is formed partly by a tubular continuation of the concha, partly by an osseous canal in tlie temporal bone. The cartilaginous portion is about half an inch long, and the osseous portion three-fourths of an inch. The skin and the cuticle are continued down the passage, and becoming gradually thinner, form a cul-de-sac over the mem- brana tympani. The outer portion is furnished with hairs and ceruminous glands, of which the peculiar bitter secretion is for the purpose of keeping the passage moist, and preventing insects from lodging in it. Its arteries are derived from the posterior auricidar, internal maxillary, and temporal; its nerve, from the tempore- auricular. The tympanum, or middle ear, is an irregular cavity in the petrous part of the temporal bone, and lined by mucous membrane. It is filled with air, which is freely admitted through the Eustachian tube; so that the atmospheric pressure is equal on both sides of the membrana tympani. It contains a chain of small bones, of which the use is to communicate the vibrations of the membrana tympani to the internal parts of the ear. For this purpose one end of the chain is attached to the membrana tympani, the other td the fenestra ovalis. The antero-posterior ♦ To obtain a correct knowledge of the length and dimensions of the meatus, sections should be made through it in different directions, or a cast of it taken in common plaster.