492 CALF OF THE LEG. the posterior It descends over the deep muscles at the back of the tibial artery, jgg interval between the internal malleolus and the OS calcis, and, entering the sole, divides behind the abductor poUicis into the external and internal plantar arteries. It lies, first, for a short distance, upon the tibialis posticus, then, on the flexor longus digitorum; but behind the ankle it is in contact with the tibia, so that here it can be felt beating, and effectually com- pressed. In the upper part of its course, it runs nearly midway between the bones, and is covered by the gastrocnemius and soleus : to tie it, therefore, in this situation, is very difficult. But in the lower part of its course, it gradually approaches the inner border of the tibia, from which, generally speaking, it is not more than ^ or fths of an inch distant. Here, being comparatively superficial, it may easily be tied. Immediately behind the internal malleolus, it lies between the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, on the inner side, and the flexor longus pollicis on the outer. It has two venae comites, which communicate at intervals. Its branches are as follow:— a. Numerous branches to the solens and the deep muscles. b. The peroneal is a branch of very considerable size; often as large as the posterior tibial. Arising about 1^ inch below the divi- sion of the popliteal, it descends close to the inner side of the fibula, and then over the articulation between the tibia and fibula to the outer part of the os calcis, where it inosculates with the malleolar and plantar arteries. All down the leg it is imbedded among the muscles: being covered, first, by the soleus, afterwards by the flexor longus pollicis. To both these muscles, to the latter especi- ally, it sends numerous branches, and just above the ankle it gives off a constant one—the anterior peroneal—which passes through the interosseous membrane, to the under aspect of the peroneus tertius, then runs in front of the tibio-fibular articulation, and inosculates with the other malleolar arteries. It supplies the medullary artery of the fibula, and, about an inch above the os calcis, sends off a transverse communicating branch, which inosculates with the posterior tibial artery under the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis.