SIDE VIKW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. 38! Eeetiim rectum enters the pelvis on the left of the sacrum, intestinum and describes a curve corresponding to the axis of the rekdons pelvis. Before its termination, the bowel curves down- wards so that the anal aperture is dependent. The rectum is not throughout of equal calibre. Its capacity becomes greater as it descends into the pelvis: and, immediately above the sphincter, it presents a considerable dilatation (fig. 80). This dilatation is not material in early life, but it increases as age advances. An adequate idea of it cannot be formed unless the bowel be fully distended. Under such circumstances the rectum loses altogether its cylindrical form, and bulges up on either side of the prostate and the base of the bladder. For this reason the rectum should always be emptied before the operation of litho- tomy. The upper part of the rectum is connected to the sacrum by a fold of peritoneum termed ' meso-rectumJ In this fold, the terminal branch of the inferior mesenteric artery with its vein runs up to supply the bowel. Below the meso-rectum, the gut is connected to the sacrum and coccyx by loose cellular tissue, which allows its easy distention. The rectum is supported by the leva- tores ani, the larger portions of which are inserted into its side. The relations of the front part of the rectum,—that, namely, included between the recto-vesical pouch and the anus—are most important. Supposing the forefinger to be introduced into the anus, and a catheter in the urethra, the first thing felt through the front wall of the bowel is the membranous part of the urethra (fig. 82). It lies just within the sphincter, and is about ten lines in front of the gut. About one and a half or two inches from the anus the finger comes upon the prostate gland; this is in close contact with the gut, and is readily felt on account of its hard- ness ; by moving the finger from side to side we recognise its lateral lobes. Still higher up, the finger goes beyond the prostate, and reaches the ' trigone ' of the bladder : the facility with which this can be examined depends not only upon the length of the finger and the amount of fat in the perineum, but upon the degree of distention of the bladder ; the more distended the bladder, the