160 EUSTACHIAN TUBE. tion of the tube from the pharynx is upwards, backwards, and outwards ; it is an inch and a half long. The narrowest part is about the middle, and here its walls are in contact. Near the tympanum its walls are osseous, but towards the pharynx they are composed of fibro-cartilage and fibrous membrane. The cartila- ginous end projects between the origins of the levator and the tensor palati, and gives attachment to some of their fibres. It is situated at the base of the skull, in the furrow between the petrous portion of the temporal and the great wing of the sphenoid bone. It adheres closely to the bony furrow, as well as to the fibro- cartilage filling up the ' foramen lacerum medium.' The orifice is not trumpet-shaped, as usually described, but an elliptical slit about half an inch long and nearly perpendicular. The fibro- cartilage bounds it only on the inner and the upper part of the circumference ; the integrity of the canal externally is maintained by tough fibrous membrane. The Eustachian tube is lined by a continuation of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, and covered by ciliated epithelium. Hence, inflammatory affections of the throat or tonsils are liable to be attended with deafness, from temporary obstruction of the tube. Mucous glands surround the orifice of the tube like a second tonsil. They are similar in nature and function to the glands beneath the mucous membrane of the mouth, the palate, and the pharynx. The hard palate, formed by the superior maxillary and palate bones, serves as a fulcrum for the tongue in the act of tasting, in mastication, in deglutition, and in the articulation of sounds. The tissue covering the bones is thick and close in texture, and firmly united to the asperities on the bones. But it is not everywhere of equal thickness. Along the raphe in the mesial line, it is much thinner than at the sides; for this reason, the hard palate is in this situation more prone to be perforated by syphilitic disease. A thick layer of glands (glandulw palatincv) is arranged in rows on either side of the hard palate. These glands become more numerous and larger towards the soft palate. Their orifices are