DIAPHRAGM. 346 observe that there is a broad tendon in the centre, and that muscular fibres converge to it from all sides (fig. 70), The dia- phragm arises, 1. From the ensiforro cartilage; 2. From the inside of the cartilages of the six lower ribs by as many digitations, which correspond with those of the transverse muscle of the abdomen; 3. In the interval between the last rib and the spine, it arises from two thin tendinous arches, called respectively, the ligamenta arcuata {externum and internum). The external arch extends from the last rib to the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, and arches over the quadratus lumborum ; the internal passes from the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra to the body of the same vertebra, and arches over the psoas; lastly, it arises from the front of the bodies of the lumbar vertebra by two elongated bundles, called the crura of the diaphragm. Both crura have tendinous origins ; the right crus is, however, a little longer than the left; for the former arises from three or four upper lumbar vertebrae and their intervening cartilages, whereas the left does not descend so low by one vertebra. Between the two crura, the aorta enters the abdomen. From these various origins the fibres ascend, at first nearly vertically, and then all arch inwards, and converge to be inserted into the central tendon. The central tendon is nearly the highest part of the diaphragm. It presents a beautiful gUstening surface, owing to the crossing of its fibres; and its sliape may be rudely compared to that of a trefoil leaf. The chief point of interest about the tendon is, that, in consequence of its connections with the pericardium, beneath which it lies (p. 115), it is always maintained nearly on the same level; so that it lielps to support the heart, and serves as a fixed point for the insertion of the muscular fibres of the diaphragm. There are three large openings in the diaphragm for Openings the transmission of the aorta, the oesophagus, and the *«^ia- • j^fgj.iQ,, ^g^a cava respectively. The aortic opening Ues ^ between the crura in front of the spine; it transmits, also, the vena azygos and the thoracic duct, both of which lie rather to the right side of the aorta. Trace the crura upwards, and ob-