.SPINAL CORD. 549 The posterior horns of the crescents are long and narrow, and extend to the posterior lateral fissure, where they are connected with the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. The anterior horns are short and thick, and come forwards towards the line of attach- ment of the anterior roots of the nerves, but do not reach the surface. Thirty-one pair of nerves arise from the spinal cord Sr^^s. —namely, 8 in the cervical region, 12 in the dorsal, 5 in the lumbar, 5 in the sacral, and 1 in the coccygeal. Each nerve comes off by two distinct series of roots—one from TVo roots, ^^^^^ fi'oi^ back of the cord. Sir semiitive ' Charles Bell first noticed the fact that the anterior roots an moor, consist exclusively of motor filaments, the posterior exclusively of sensitive. All converge and unite in the corre- sponding intervertebral foramen to form a single nerve, composed of both motor and sensitve filaments. The jposterior or sensitive roots proceed from the posterior lateral groove of the cord, and are thicker and more numerous than the anterior.* Previous to their union with the anterior roots, they are collected together and pass through a ganglion. This ganglion is of an oval form, and lies in the intervertebral foramen, where the roots of the nerves pass through the dura mater.f ° The anterior root arises from the groove between the anterior and lateral columns of the cord, and passes in front of the scribed and figured by Eolando, Eicherche Anatomiche sulla Struttura del Midollo Spinale, con Figure, art. tratto dal Dizionario Periodico di Medicina, Torino 1824 8vo. p. 55. ' ' * The researches of Blandin, Anat. dcscript. t. ii., p. 648, 1838, have led him to establish the following relation between the respectiye size of the anterior and pos- terior roots of the nerves in the several regions of the spine :_ The posterior roots are to the anterior in the cervical region » dorsal i> lumbar and sacral 2 1 u 1 1 1 This relation quite accords with the greater delicacy of the sense of touch in th^ upper extremity. t The ganglia of the two last sacral nerves lie within the dura mater.