INTEROSSEOUS MUSCLES. 293 it is also connected by a broad expansion with the extensor tendon on the bade of the finger. The Jirst dorsal interosseous muscle (abductor indicis) is larger than the others, and occupies the interval between the thumb and fore-finger. It arises from the upper half of the ulnar side of the first metacarpal bone, and from the entire length of the radial side of the second : between the two origins, the radial artery passes into the palm. Its fibres converge on either side to a tendon, which is inserted into the radial side of the first phalanx of the index finger and its extensor tendon. The second dorsal interosseous muscle occupies the second meta- carpal space. It is inserted into the radial side of the first phalanx of the middle finger and its extensor tendon. The third and fourth, occupying the corresponding metacarpal spaces, are inserted, the one into the ulnar side of the middle, the other into the ulnar side of the ring finger. If an imaginary line be drawn longitudinally through the middle finger, as represented by the dotted line in fig. 53, we shall find that all the dorsal interosseous muscles are abductors from that Ime; consequently, they separate the fingers from each other. Palmar in- ^^q^i^'es a Careful examination to distinguish this terosseous. set of muscles, because the dorsal muscles protrude with them into the palm. They are smaller than the dorsal, and each arises from the lateral surface of only one meta- carpal bone, that, namely, connected with the finger into which the muscle is inserted (fig. 54). They terminate in small tendons which pass between the metacarpal joints of the fingers, and are inserted, like the dorsal muscles, into the sides of the first phalanges and the extensor tendons on the back of the fingers. The first palmar interosseous muscle arises from* the ulnar side of the second metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the ulnar side ot the index finger. The second and third arise, the one from the radial side of the fourth, the other from the radial side of the fifth metacarpal bone, and are inserted into the same sides of the rino- and little fingers. ° The palmar interosseous muscles are all adductors to an imagi-