540 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Processus a S^^^^J flrawing back the overlapping cerebellum, cereboUo two broad white cords are seen, which pass backwards, ad testes. diverging from each other, from the corpora quadrige- mina to the cerebellum (fig. 129). These are the '■ suxjerior crura of the cerebellum.^ They[connect the cerebrum and the cere- bellum. The space between them is occupied by a thin layer of grey matter, which covers the fourth ventricle. This layer is called the ' valve of Vieussens.' The fourth'nerve arises from it bv several filaments. Two white bands proceed on each side from the cor- pora quadrigemina to join the optic thalamus and the optic tract. The third ventricle is connected with the fourth by ad quartiim Dieans of a canal large enough to admit a probe, which Tentricuhim, runs backwards beneath the posterior commissure and of Sylvius!'^ the corpora quadrigemina (p. 530). This passage, to- gether with the third and fourth ventricles, are per- sistent parts of the central canal which, in early foetal life, extended down the middle of the spinal cord. This cavity is situated between the cerebellum and Fourth j^i-jy posterior part of the medulla oblongata and pons ventricle. ^ . ° ^ Varolii. It is only a dilated portion of the primordial canal alluded to in the last paragraph. To obtain a perfect view of its boundaries, a vertical section should be made, as in dia- gram (p. 530). It appears triangular, and its boundaries are as follow:—The front or base is formed by the medulla oblongata and pons Varolii; the upper wall, by the valve of Vieussens and the aqueduct of Sylvius; the posterior wall, by the inferior vermi- form process of the cerebellum ; below, by the continuation of the arachnoid membrane on to the spinal cord ; and, laterally, by the processus a cerebello ad testes, posterior pyramids, and restiform bodies. The pia mater is prolonged for a short distance into the lower part of the cavity, and forms the ' choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle.* nerves, and their size bears a direct relation to the power of sight. They are relatively smaller in man than in any other animal. In birds there are only two eminences, and these are very large, especially in those far-seeing birds which fly high, as the eagle, falcon, vulture, &c., who require acute sight to discern their prey at a distance. ' * Tiedemann proposes to call the fourth ventricle the first; because, in the foetus, il