STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. 146 likely to be carried into the right bronchus by the stream of the air. " The left bronchus is about two inches in length, and descends more obliquely to its lung than the right. The cartilages of the trachea vary in number from sixteen to twenty; those of the right bronchus from six to eight; those of the left from nine to twelve. They form about two-thirds of a circle, and resemble a horse-shoe in form. The cartilage at the bifurcation of the trachea is shaped like the letter V; its angle projects into the centre of the main tube, and its sides belong one to each bronchus. The cartilages are connected, and covered on their outer and inner surfaces by a tough membrane, consisting of fibrous and yellow elastic tissue. This membrane is attached to the circum- ference of the cricoid cartilage, and is continued through the whole extent of the trachea and the bronchial tubes. Posteriorly, where the cartilages are deficient, it maintains the integrity of the tube ; in this situation, it consists of parallel and closely arranged lono-itudinal fibres, which are seated immediately beneath the mucous membrane, and raise it into folds. The elasticity of this structure admits of the elongation and contraction of the "trS/Ch Gel Between the fibrous and muscular layers of the Tracheal trachea are a large number of small mucous glands, which are most numerous on the posterior part of the tube In health, their secretion is clear, not tenacious, and just sufficient to lubricate the air-passages. In bronchitis, they are the sources of the abundant viscid expectoration. After removing the fibrous membrane and the Muscular tracheal glands from the back of the trachea, we expose a thin stratum of non-striped muscular fibres, some of which extend transversely between the posterior free ends of the cartilaxres, while others are arranged in longitudmal bundles. By their contraction, they approximate the ends of the cartilages, and diminish the calibre of the tube. The mucous membrane lining the air-passages is a continuation from that of the larynx. Its colour in the natural state is nearly