44 SUBMAXILLARY REGION. it receives nerve-filaments of three different kinds—viz. motor, sensitive, and sympathetic. Its motor root is the chorda tympani, which, apparently a branch of the gustatory, is derived from the facial nerve (a nerve of motion). Its sensitive roots proceed from the gustatory; and its connection with the sympathetic system of nerves is established by a branch which comes from the ' nervi molles ' round the facial artery. Thus provided with nerves, the ganglion supplies the submaxillary and sublingual glands and their ducts. The lingual artery is generally the second branch of Lingual ^j^g external carotid. Curving slightly upwards from its origin, the artery soon runs forwards beneath the hyo- glossus muscle, parallel to the os-hyoides. At the anterior edge of the hyo-glossus it ascends to the under sm-face of the tongue, and is continued forwards to the apex of the tongue under the name of * ranine.' The curves made by the artery are for the purpose of allowing the elongation of the tongue. Under the hyo-glossus, the artery lies upon the middle constrictor of the pharynx, and the genio-hyo-glossus muscles; in the substance of the tongue, it lies between the genio-hyo-glossus and the lingualis. Its branches are as follow: — 1. The hyoid, a small artery which runs along the upper border of the hyoid bone, supplying the muscles and anastomosing with its fellow. 2. The dorsales linguce, two or more, which run under the hyo -glossus to the back of the tongue. 3. The sublingual, arising near the anterior border of the hyo- glossus, supplies the sublingual gland, the mylo-hyoideus, and the mucous membrane of the mouth and gums. This artery gene- rally gives off the little artery of the ' frsenum linguae,' which is sometimes wounded in cutting the fraenum in children who are tongue-tied; especially when we neglect the rule of pointing the scissors downwards and backwards, 4. The ranine is the termination of the lingual artery. As it runs forwards to the tip of the tongue along the outer side of the genio-hyo-glossus, it distributes branches to the tongue, and at the tip inosculates slightly with its fellow.