MALK PERINKUM. 374 These glands are imbedded, one on either side, im- ^Sr'^ " "mediately behind the bulb, in the substance of the com- ^^^^ ^' pressor urethrte. Each consists of a cluster of Httle glands. Their collective size is about that of a pea, but it varies in different individuals. From each a slender duct runs forwards, and, after a course of about one inch, opens into the under surface of the bulbous part of the urethra (p. 377). Their use is to furnish a secretion accessory to generation. The pudic artery is a branch of the internal iliac, and its It leaves the pelvis through the great ischiatic notch, branches. winds roiind the spine of the ischium, re-enters the pelvis through the lesser ischiatic notch, and then runs along the inner side of the tuber ischii up towards the pubic arch. About an inch and a half above the tuber ischii, we can feel the trunk of the pudic artery; but we cannot see it, nor draw it out, for it is securely lodged in a fibrous canal formed by the obturator fascia. Traced upwards, it runs between the two layers of the triangular ligament, and divides into three principal branches; the artery of the bulb, the artery of the crus, and the dorsal artery of the penis (fig. 78). The external hsemorrhoidal and superficial perineal branches have already been described (p. 366). The artery of the hidh is of considerable size, and passes trans- versely inwards; it runs through the substance of the compressor urethra?, and before it enters the bulb divides into two or three branches. It also sends a small branch to Co^vper's gland. From the direction of this artery it will at once strike the attention that there is great risk of dividing it in lithotomy. If the artery run along its usual level, and the incision be not made too high m the perineum, then indeed it is out of the way of harm. But, sup- posing the reverse, the artery cannot escape; and its size is such that it might occasion alarming hsemorrhage. If it be asked, how often does the artery run along a dangerous level ? about once m twenty subjects; and there is no possibility of ascertaining this anomaly beforehand. The artery of the crus penis is given off after that of the bulb.