389 S-IDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. these circvrmstances, in order to reach the obturator foramen, it generally descends on the ou^er side of the fenaoral ring. Instances, however, occasionally occur, where it makes a sweep round the inner side of the ring; so that three-fourths of the ring, or, what comes to the same thing, of the mouth of a femoral hernia, would in such a case be surrounded by a large artery.^ /. The ischiatic artery is smaller than the glutaeal. It proceeds over the pyriformis and the sacral plexus, to the lower border of the great ischiatic notch, through which it passes out of the pelvis to the buttock, where it runs with the great ischiatic nerve. It gives off small muscular branches in the pelvis to the pyriformis and coccygeus. g. The 'prulic artery suppbes the perineum and the penis. It passes out of the pelvis through the great ischiatic notch, below the pyriformis, crosses the spine of the ischium, and re-enters the pelvis through the lesser notch. It then ascends on the inner side of the obturator internus towards the pubic arch, where it gives branches to the several parts of the penis. In its passage over the obturator muscle it is inclosed in a strong tube of fascia (formed by the obturator fascia), and is situated about one inch and a quarter above the tuberosity of the ischium. The branches of the pudic artery were described in the dissection of the perineum (p. 374). The pudic artery, however, sometimes takes a very different course. Instead of passing out of the pelvis, it may run by the side of the prostate gland to its destination; or, one of the large branches of the pudic may take this unusual course, while the pudic itself is regular^ but proportion ably small. All practic^ anatomists are familiar with these varieties, and we seldom pass a common witli the epigastric is but an nnusual development of this branch. The branch derives additional interest from the fact, that after Lgature of the external iliao it becomes greatly enlarged, and carries blood directly into the epigastric. See a case in Med. Chir. Trans. toI. xx. 1836. * The Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital contains two examples of double femoral hernia in the male, with the obturator arising on each side from the epigastric. In three out of the four ruptures the obturator runs on the inner side of the mouth Qf the sac. (See Preparations 65, 69, Series 17,)