8 SINUSES OF THE DURA 3IATER. subjects. Nothing is determined concerning their precise nature ; but it is presumed that they are morbid products, since they are never observed in very young subjects. The brain should now be removed, and preserved in spirit for future examination. Its anatomy with that of its remaining membranes will be described in a subsequent part of this work. The other sinuses should now be examined. These are the two great sinuses through which all Binuses. blood from the brain is returned into the internal jugular veins. Their course is well marked in the dry skull. The right is commonly the larger. Each commences at the internal occipital protuberance, and proceeds at first horizon- tally outwards, enclosed between the layers of the tentorium, along a groove in the occipital bone and the posterior inferior angle of the parietal; it then descends along the mastoid portion of the temporal bone and again indenting the occipital, turns forwards to the foramen lacerum posterius, and terminates in the internal jugular vein.* Inferior "^^^^ small size. It runs along the inferior longitudinal free border of the falx cerebri, and terminates in the sinus. straight sinus at the anterior margin of the tentorium (fig. 2). This may be considered as the continuation of the sinus^'^* preceding. It runs along the line of junction of the falx cerebri with the tentorium cerebelli, and terminates at the divergence of the two lateral sinuses. It receives the two ' vense Galeni' (fig. 2), which return the blood from the lateral ventricles of the brain. This is so called because its interior is intersected by Cavernous numerous threads. It extends along the side of the sinus. ° body of the sphenoid bone, outside the internal carotid artery. It receives the ophthalmic vein which leaves the orbit through the foramen lacerum orbitale; and it communicates with the circular sinus which surrounds the pituitary gland (fig. 3). * It has in some subjects another outlet, through the foramen mnstoideimi, or else the posterior condyloid foramen.