DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. 253 back of the little finger, the ring, and half the middle finger; here also it sends a branch which communicates with the radial nerve. ^ ^. This nerve, at the bend of the elbow, lies on the nerve. inner side of the brachial artery. It then passes be- tween the two origins of the pronator teres, and de- scends along the middle of the forearm, between the flexor sublimis and the flexor profundus digitorum. At the lower part of the fore- arm it becomes more superficial, lying about the middle of the wrist, between the outer tendon of the flexor sublimis, and the inner border of the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis: it then enters the palm beneath the anterior annular ligament, and divides into five branches for the supply of the thumb, both sides of the fore and middle fingers, and the outer side of the ring finger.* Immediately below the elbow, the median nerve sends branches to the pronator teres and all the flexor muscles of the forearm, except the flexor carpi ulnaris and the inner half of the flexor profundus, which are supplied by the ulnar. The interosseous branch of the median runs with the anterior interosseous artery, upon the interosseous membrane between the flexor longus pollicis and flexor profundus digitorum: it supplies both these muscles and the pronator quadratus. Before the median nerve passes beneath the annular ligament, it sends off its superficial x~)almar branch, which passes over the ligament, and divides into small filaments to supply the skin of the palm and ball of the thumb. Now reflect the superficial layer of muscles, to see those more deeply seated. Preserve the principal vessels and nerves. The deep-seated muscles are the flexor digitorum profundus, and the flexor longus pollicis; beneath both, near the wrist, lies the pronator quadratus. Close to the interosseous membrane run the anterior interosseous artery and nerve. riexor pro- "^^^^ '^^ thickest muscle of the forearm. It arises fundus from the upper two-thirds of the anterior surface of the digitorum. i !• Ulna, Irom the same extent of its internal surface, from * If the tendon of the palmaris longus happen to be broader than usual, it may partially cover the median nerve near the wrist; but most frequently the nerve is im- mediately beneath the fascia, the tendon lying to its ulnar side.