186 DISSECTION OF TUE ORBIT. These, from ten to twelve in number, run forward very tortuously with the optic nerve, pass through the back of the sclerotica, and are distributed to the iris. Since the ciliary nerves derive their motor influence from the third nerve, we see that the iris must lose its power of motion when this nerve is paralysed. Just before it enters the sphenoidal fissure, the third Third nerve, j^gj-ve divides into two branches, both of which pass ^° ""^ ' between the origins of the external rectus. The upper division has been already traced into the superior rectus and levator palpebrce. The lower division supplies a branch to the internal rectus, another to the inferior rectus, and then runs along the floor of the orbit to the inferior oblique muscle. What is the result of paralysis of the third nerve ? falling of the upper eyelid (ptosis), external squint, dilatation and immobility of the pupil. This nerve enters the orbit between the origins of motorTx-^^' the external rectus, and terminates in fine filaments, ternus. ^hich are exclusively distributed to the ocular surface of this muscle. Eespectiug the motor nerves in the orbit, observe that they all enter the ocular surface of the muscles, with the exception of the fourth. This muscle arises by a flat tendon from the superior ^ohh^nl maxillary bone, near the lower part of the lachrymal muscle. groove. It runs outwards and backwards between the rectus inferior and the orbit, then curves upwards between the globe and the external rectus, and is inserted by a broad thin tendon into the outer and back part of the sclerotic coat, close to the tendon of the superior oblique. It is supplied by the lower division of the third n. The use of the oblique muscles is to rotate the eye 4fobiique -upon its antero-posterior axis, so that, however much muscles of the head be moved obliquely to one side or the other, the eye. image of the object may be always kept stationary upon one and the same point of the retina. This was first ex- plained by Hunter. He says—' When the head is moved towards ^