CONTENTS OF POSTERIOR MEDIASTINUM. 121 only raise above the ordinary level the point where the lungs diverge, but also increase their divergence; hence the greater dulness on percussion. ^ ^ . The posterior mediastinum (p. 105) is formed by the mediasti- reflection of the pleural sac on each side, from the ^"l^ ^^oot of the lung to the sides of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae. It is bounded in front by the pericardium. To obtain a view of it, draw out the right lung, and fasten it to the left side. This mediastinum contains the aorta ; in front of the aorta, the oesophagus, with the pneumogastric nerves; on the right of the aorta is the vena azygos; between this vein and the aorta is the thoracic duct; inferiorly are the splanchnic nerves and some lymphatic glands. To expose these last, we have to remove the pleura, and a layer of firm fascia which lines the chest outside it. We have already traced the arch of the aorta to the aorta'^"'' lower border of the body of the third dorsal vertebra. From this point, the aorta descends on the left side of the spine, gradually approaching towards the middle line. Oppo- site the last dorsal vertebra it passes between the crura of the diaphragm and enters the abdomen. Its left side is covered by pleura; on its right run the vena azygos and thoracic duct; in front of it are, the root of the left lung, the pericardium, and nearer to the mesial line is the oesophagus. Its branches will be described presently. This vein commences in the abdomen by small azygos. |^j.g^j^g]^gg ^j.QT^^ Qf ^g Kimbar veins, and generally communicates with the renal, or the vena cava itself. This, indeed, is the main point about the origin of the vena azygos, that it communicates directly or indirectly with the vena cava inferior. It enters the chest through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, and ascends on the right side of the aorta through the posterior mediastinum, in front of the bodies of the lower dorsal vertebras and over the right intercostal arteries. When the vein reaches the level of the third dorsal vertebra, it arches over the right bronchus, and terminates in the superior vena cava, just before this vessel is