331 PEKITONEUM. This body is situated at the top of the Itidney. It eua capsule. ^.^^ upon the crus of the diaphragm. You will see the right renal capsule by lifting up the liver; the left, by lifting up the spleen, and the great end of the stomach, p A certain range of motion being necessary to the abdominal viscera, they are provided with a serous membrane, called the ' peritoneum.' This membrane is, like other serous membranes, a closed sac, one part of which lines the con- taining cavity, the other is reflected over the contained viscera. These are respectively termed the parietal and the visceral layers. In the female, however, it is not, strictly speaking, a closed sac, since it communicates with the cavity of the uterus through the Fallopian tubes. The internal surface of the peritoneum is smooth and polished, and lined by squamous epithelium : the external surface, the subperitoneal tissue, is composed of areolar tissue which connects the internal layer to the invested viscus or abdominal parietes. There is nothing between the parietal and the visceral layers, in other words, inside the sac, but just sufficient moisture to lubricate its smooth and polished surface. The viscera are all, more or less, outside the sac; some lie altogether behind it, as the pancreas, kidneys, and renal capsules ; others, as the lower parts of the duodenum, caecum, ascending and descending colon, are only partially covered by it; while others, as the stomach, liver, jejunum, ileum, and some parts of the large intestine, are completely invested by it: these latter push the visceral layer before them, and so give rise to membranous folds ; the larger the fold, the freer is the mobility of the viscus which occasions it. Now trace the peritoneum as a continuous membrane. peritoMi^^^ Since the peritoneum is a perfect sac, it matters not where we begin, for we must come back to the starting point. Supposing, then, a longitudinal section to be made through the viscera in the middle of the body, one might trace the peritoneum thus—beginning at the diaphragm, and taking, for brevity's sake, two layers at a time (fig. 66). From the diaphragm two layers of peritoneum proceed to the