DISSECTION OP THE GROIN". 440 They all pass through the femoral ring into the abdomen, and eventually empty themselves into the thoracic duct. The glands mentioned in the preceding paragraph are all super- ficial. There are others, more deeply seated, close to the great vessels of the thigh : these are much smaller, and sometimes cannot be found. The superficial epigastric artery comes out through the fascia lata, half an inch below Poupart's ligament, and supplies the inguinal glands. Its further course is described at p. 309. The superficial circumfiexa ilii runs parallel to Poupart's liga- ment towards the crest of the ileum, and ends in the skin and subcutaneous tissue. The superficial external pudic comes out through the sa- phenous opening, crosses over the spermatic cord, and supplies the penis and scrotum in the male, and the labi.um in the female. This artery is liable to be divided in the operation for femoral hernia; also in that for phimosis, since it runs along the penis to supply the prepuce. Arising, as they all do, directly from so large an artery as the femoral, they sometimes bleed profusely; for it is an admitted fact, that when even a small branch, coming directly from a principal artery, is divided near its origin, it will sometimes pour out as much blood as if an opening were punched out of the trunk as large as the area of the divided branches.* There is another pudic artery, called the deep or inferior external pudic: this runs between the fascia lata and the pectineus, supplying that muscle, the scrotum in the male, and the labium in the female. The incision should be prolonged down the thigh, over the knee to the tubercle of the tibia. The skin must then be reflected, to expose the subcutaneous tissue over the whole of the front of the thigh. In it will be found the cutaneous vessels and nerves, which must be carefully dissected. * Mr. Liston had occasion to tie the external iliac artery for a supposed injury (by a pistol-ball) to the femoral. It was discovered, after the death of the patient, that the baU had injured only one of the superficial branches of the femoral, about an inch from its origin. See his paper in the Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. xxix. 1846.