DISSECTION OV THE BRAIN. 542 The upper surface of the cerebellum slopes on each surface ^^'••^ing a ridge along the middle line, called the * sxvperior veymiform process.' Comparative anatomy proves that this is really the fundamental part of the cerebellum. The sides, called the ' hemispheres,' are merely ofifsets or wings, superadded for special purposes, and increase in size as we ascend in the vertebrate series, till in man they form by far the largest part of the organ. They are separated posteriorly by a perpen- dicular fissure, which receives the ' falx cerebelli.' On the upper surface of the cerebellum ai-e two lobes, which have received names, i.e. the quadrate lobe, situated on its external and anterior aspect, and the posterior lobe, placed along its posterior border. On the under surface of the cerebellum, its division Under [^^q t,wo hemispheres is clearly perceptible. The deep surface. f^j-j.^^ between them is called ' the valley.' The front part of it is occupied by the medulla oblongata. To examine the surface of the valley, the medulla must be raised, and the hemi- spheres separated from each other. Along the middle line of the valley, is the ' inferior vermiform process,' which is the under surface of the fundamental part of the cerebellum. Traced for- wards, this process terminates in the 'nodule',' traced backwards, it terminates in a small conical projection, called the 'pyramid:' between these, is a tongue-like body called the ' uvula.' Each hemisphere presents on its under surface certain secondary lobes, to which fanciful names have been applied. That portion which immediately overlays the side of the medulla oblongata is called the 'tonsil' {amygdala): at the anterior part of each hemisphere, near the middle line, is a little lobe called the 'floc- culus,' or pneumogastric lobe. From either side of the uvula may be traced a thin valve-Hke fold of white substance, which proceeds in a semicircular direction to the floccuU. These folds form the posterior medullary velum.* To see this satisfactorily, the tonsils should be carefully separated from each other. * These were first pointed out by Tarini, and are sometimes caUed the ' mlves of Tari7ii' {AdYei-s. Anat. prima: Paris, 1750).