MUSCLES OF THE PACE. 65 divisions of the fifth cerebral nerve; namely, the yupra-orbital, the infra-orbital, and the mental. No other nerve takes any share in conferring sensation upon the face except the auricnlo-parotidean branch of the cervical plexus (p. 16), which supplies the skin covering the parotid gland and part of the cheek. The skin covering the cartilages of the nose is supplied by a small nerve called the naso-lohular. It is the terminal branch of the nasal division of the ophthalmic nerve. It appears between the bone and the cartilage, lying under the compressor naris m. Mnsculus "^^^^ muscle arises from the fascia over the masseter risorius m., and passes forwards to be inserted into the angle of (Santonm). ^j^^ mouth, where it intermingles with the orbicularis oris and other muscles in this situation. It produces the smile, not of good humour, but of derision. It is convenient to arrange the muscles of the face under three heads ; appertaining respectively to the mouth, the nose, the eye- brows and lids. Begin with those of the mouth. The muscles of the mouth are arranged thus : there is an orbi- cular or sphincter muscle surrounding the lips; from this, as from a common centre, muscles diverge and are fixed into the surround- ing bones. They are named elevators, depressors, &c., according to their respective action. . This muscle, nearly an inch in breadth, surrounds Orbicularis ,i .1 t, • •. , . , oris. *^be mouth. Its size and thickness in different indi- viduals, produce the variety in the prominence of the lips. Observe that its fibres do not surround the mouth in one unbroken series (excepting a thin fasciculus which is said to pass around the free margin of the lips), but that those of the upper and lower lip decussate at the angles of the mouth, and inter- mingle with the fibres of the buccinator and other muscles which converge from different parts of the face. The cutaneous surface of the muscle is intimately connected with the lips and the sur- rounding skin; the deep surface is separated from the mucous membrane by the labial glands and the coronary vessels. The 'orbicularis' is the antagonist of all the muscles which