I 98 PNEUM0GA8TRIC NERVE. * glossal nerve, from which it receives filaments. It also receives filaments from the first and second spinal nerves, and from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. Thus, the pneumogastric, at its origin probably a nerve of sensation only, becomes, in consequence of the reinforcements from these various branches, a compound nerve, and in all re- spects analogous to a spinal nerve. Its branches are— 1. The auricular (Arnold), which will be described hereafter. 2. The pharyngeal, which arises from the inferior ganglion, and descends either in front of or behind the internal carotid to join the pharyngeal plexus (p. 95). 3. The superior laryngeal, also derived from the inferior ganglion, descends behind the internal carotid to the interval between the os-hyoides and the thyroid cartilage, where it enters the larynx through the thyro-hyoid membrane, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the larynx. The superior laryngeal nerve gives off the ' external laryngeal,'' which descends beneath the depressors of the os-hyoides to supply the crico-thyroid muscle. 4. The cardiac, two in number, which descend behind the sheath of the carotid to the cardiac plexus. The upper branch is small, and proceeds from the inferior ganglion; the lower comes from the main trunk in its course down the neck. On their passage to the heart, the right cardiac nerves run chiefly behind the arch of the aorta to the deep cardiac plexus; the left, chiefly in front of it, to the superficial cardiac plexus. 5. The inferior laryngeal or recurrent branch of the pneumo- gastric turns on the right side under the subclavian artery (p. 53), and runs up to the larynx, between the trachea and the bodies of the cervical vertebrae: on the left side, it turns under the arch of the aorta, and ascends to the larynx between the trachea and the oesophagus. On both sides it enters the larynx beneath the lower border of the inferior constrictor, and supplies all the intrinsic muscles of the larynx, except the crico-thyroid. The remaining branches of the pneumogastric, to the lungs, the oesophagus and stomach, will be examined in the dissection of the chest.