4G0 FRONT or TJIE THIGH. Hunt lu tlie middle third of the thigh, the femoral artery caiiai. contained in a tendinous canal * under the sartorius, called ' Hunter's canal.' This canal at its upper pa,rt is rather indistinct; but it gradually becomes stronger towards the opening in the tendon of the adductor magnus. Its boundaries are formed by the tendons of the muscles between which the artery runs. On the inner side are the tendons of the adductor longus and magnus ; on the outer side is the tendon of the vastus internus; in front the canal is completed by an aponeurotic ex- pansion thrown obliquely across from the adductors to the vastus internus, as shown in fig. 103. In a horizontal section the canal appears triangular. The adaptation of this shape to the exigencies of the case is manifest when we reflect that the muscles keep the side of the triangle always tight, and thereby prevent any com- pression of the vessels. Hunter's canal contains not only the femoral artery and vein, but also the internal saphenous nerve. The vein lies behind and to the outer side; the nerve to the inner side of the artery. It is plain that a ligature can be placed around the artery, in the upper third of the thigh, with comparative facility; not so pjg easily in the middle third. The artery is tied for an aneurism of the popliteal, just where the sartorius begins to overlap it, for three reasons:—1, it is more accessible; 2, the coats of the artery at this distance are less likely to be diseased; 3, the origin of the profunda is sufficiently far off to admit SECTION THROUGH '■ .... hunter's canal. of the formation of a coagulum. An incision, 1. Vastus mtemiis. beginning about three inches below the crural I: ipone^a?oL°3TCwn across, arch, shouM be made about three inches over the line of the artery. The muscular fascia should be divided over a director to the same extent. Then, by gently * Called 'Hunter's canal,'because it was in this part of its course that John Hunter first tied the femoral artery for aneurism of the popliteal, in St. George's Hos- pital, A.D. 1785. The particulars of this interesting case are published in the Trans, for the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge.