469 FRONT OF TilE LEO. into' four slips which pass to the four outer toes. They diverge from each other, and are inserted into the toes thus:—on the first phalanx, each tendon (except that of the little toe) is joined on its outer side by the corresponding tendon of the extensor brevis. The united tendons then expand, and are inserted as on the fingers; that is, the middle part is inserted into the base of the second phalanx; the sides run on to the base of the third (p. 285). Its nerve comes from the peroneal. Immediately below the ankle the anterior annular ligament forms a pulley through which the tendon of this muscle plays. It is like a sling, of which the two ends are attached to the os calcis, while the loop serves to confine the tendon. The play of the tendon is facilitated by a synovial membrane, which is pro- longed for a short distance along each of its four divisions. Be- sides its chief action, this muscle extends the ankle-joint.* This appears like a portion of the preceding. Its tevtins!"^ ^^^'^^ ^^''^^ f^o"^ ttie lower part of the shaft of the fibula and the interosseous membrane, and terminate on their tendon like barbs on a quill. The tendon passes through the same pulley with the long extensor of the toes, and, expanding considerably, is inserted into the tarsal end of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. It is supplied by a branch of the anterior tibial nerve. The peroneus fortius and the tibialis anticus are important muscles in progression. They raise the toes and foot from the ground. Those who have lost the use of these muscles are obliged to drag the foot along the ground, or to swing the entire limb outwards, in walking. Extensor ^^^^ muscle lies partly concealed between the tibialis proprius anticus and the extensor longus digitorum. It arises poUicis. ^^.Qj^^ rather more than the middle third of the fibula, and from the interosseous membrane. The fibres terminate in a penniform manner on the tendon, which runs over the ankle, be- tween the tendons of the tibialis anticus and the extensor communis * There is often a large bursa between the tendon of the extensor longus dicritorum and the outer end of the astragalus. This bursa sometimes communicates with tlie joint of the head of the astragalus.