17 CERVICAL FASCIA. loop which embraces the nervus accessorius, and sends a branch to it. The transverse branch, called the n. superjicialis colli, comes from the second and third cervical nerves. It passes forwards over the sterno-mastoid muscle, and supplies the front of the neck. Some of its filaments ascend towards the jaw, and join the cer- vical branch of the facial nerve; other filaments descend and sup- ply the skin in front of the neck as low as the sternum. The descending branches are derived from the third and fourth cervical nerves, and divide into three branches, which cross over the clavicle, and supply the skin of the front of the chest and shoulder. Of these, one, called the sternal, supplies the skin over the upper part of the sternum; another, the clavicular, passes over the middle of the clavicle, and is distributed to the skin over the pectoral muscle, the mammary gland, and the nipple; the third, named acromial, crosses over the acromion to supply the skin of the shoulder. Keviewing these cutaneous branches of the cervical plexus, we find that they have a very wide distribution, for they supply the skin covering the following parts—viz., the ear, the back of the scalp, the side of the cheek, the parotid gland, the front and side of the neck, the upper and front part of the chest and shoulder. Cervical ^^^^ ^^^^ branch beneath the fascia near the branch of angle of the jaw (p. 15). It leaves the parotid gland, the fecial and divides into filaments which curve forwards below the jaw; some of these join the transverse branch of the cervical plexus; others supply the platysma. Cerricai '^^^ ^"^"^ ^^^^ attention to the membranous invest- fascia. i^ent called the ' cervical fascia; which encloses the se- veral structures of the neck. In some subjects the fascia IS very thin; in others, with strong muscles, it is proportionably dense and resisting. It is always relatively stronger in particular situations, for the more effective protection of the parts beneath; for instance, in front of the trachea, in the fossa above the clavicle, and below the angle of the jaw. It not only covers the soft parts oi the neck collectively, but, by its inflections, forms separate c