rEUlTONEUM. 334 which connect the viscera eithei' to each other or to the back of the abdomen, have now to be examined. Tills is the fold which suspends the small intestines Mesentery. f^.Qj^ back of the abdomen. To see it, raise the great omentum and the transverse arch of the colon. Its attached part or root extends from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra obliquely across the spine to the right iliac fossa. The loose part of the mesentery curves as it were like a ruffle, and incloses the small intestines from the beginning of the jejunum to the end of the ileum. Between its layers the mesenteric vessels, nerves, glands, and lymphatics must be made out. This broad fold connects the transverse colon to the Transverse jjack of the abdomen. It forms a sort of partition jneso-colon. . '■ dividing the abdomen into an upper compartment, containing the stomach, liver, and spleen ; and a lower, containing the convolutions of the small intestines. As regards the caecum, the ascending and descending portions of the colon, they, as a general rule, are bound down by the peritoneum in their respective situations. It covers only two-thirds or thereabouts of their an- terior surface ; the rest is connected by loose cellular tissue to the back of the abdomen.* This broad peritoneal fold is composed of four layers, and proceeds from the lower border of the stomach, omentum. i • r i n • like a curtain over the convolutions of the small intes- tines. Its thickness varies considerably, in thin subjects it is often transparent, while in fat persons, on the other hand, it is loaded with fat, and contributes in great measure to the size of the abdomen. Its length also varies. In some bodies we find it extend- ing far into the pelvis, in others, small and crumpled. This fold passes from the transverse fissure on the hepatic or under surface of the liver to the upper aspect of the lesser omen- gtomach. It is composed of two layers; and between them, we find the vessels and nerves going to, and the * In some (rare) cases, the ascending and descending colon are completely sur- rounded by peritoneum, and connected to the lumbar regions, respectively, by a right and left lumbar meso-colon.