FRONT OF THE THIGH. 465 Its muscular branches are to be traced to the sartorius, rectus crurreus, and subcrurasiis; the branch to the vastus externus accompanies the descending branch of the external circumflex artery, and that to the vastus internus runs parallel with, but external to, the long saphenous nerve: these two last-named branches supply articular filaments to the knee-joint. One or more branches pass under the femoral artery and vein to supply the pectineus. The obturator nonje, also a branch of the lumbar plexus (p. 358), supplies the adductor muscles. It enters the thigh through the' upper part of the obturator foramen with the corresponding artery, and immediately divides into two branches, of which one passes in front of, the other behind, the adductor brevis. The front branch* subdivides for the supply of the gracilis, the ad- ductor longus, and sometimes the adductor brevis ; the bind one supplies the obturator externus and the adductor brevis and mag- nus. In some bodies you can succeed in tracing a filament of the obturator nerve through the notch of the acetabulum into the hip- joint, and another, which runs near the popliteal artery into the back part of the knee-joint. We have frequently seen cutaneous branches from the obturator on the inner side of the thigh. This is interesting practically, since it helps to explain the pain often felt on the inner side of the knee in disease of the hip-joint. The obturator artery, after passing through the foramen, divides mto two branches, which form a circle round the obturator mem- brane. These supply the external obturator and adductors of the thigh, and inosculate with the internal circumflex artery (p. 462) It usually gives off the little artery to the ligamentum teres of the hip-joint. * Neax the lower border of the adductor longus, a filament from this branch com- municates w,th anotFset from the long saphenous nerve and with one from the ntern'l cutaneous branch of the anterior crvu-al nerve. This communication takes pice over the femoral artery in Hunter's canal. ^ II II