STRUCTURE OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 395 the well behind the orifice, in which urine is apt to accumulate in old persons. It appears small and contracted in the fresh bladder, but if the little finger be introduced into it, we find that it will dilate to a very considerable size. Immediately behind the orifice is observed in some bladders a slight elevation, called the ' uvula.^ It is composed of a portion of the mucous membrane raised up by an accumulation of the submucous tissue, and is rarely of sufficient size to interfere with the passage of the urine. This elevation must be distinguished from enlargement of the third or middle lobe of the prostate. The orifices of the ureters are situated about an inch and a half behind the urethra, and about two inches apart. These tubes perforate the coats of the bladder obliquely, and slant towards each other, standing out in relief under the mucous membrane.* A little ridge proceeds from the orifice of each ureter down to the neck of the bladder, looking like a continuation of the ureter itself. If the mucous membrane be removed from these ridges, we find that they are produced by muscular fibres. Sir Charles Eel],t who first drew attention to them, believed them to be of use in regulating the orifices of the ureters, and named them ' the muscles of the ureters.'' The ridges, converging from the ureters, together with an im- aginary horizontal line, drawn between their orifices, include a smooth triangular area, called, by the French anatomists, the 'trigone vesicale.' The mucous membrane of this area is more firmly adherent to the subjacent tissue than in other parts of the bladder, and is therefore perfectly smooth. It is more richly * This slanting of the ureters serves all the uses of a valve. The urine enters the bladder, drop by drop, but cannot return, because the internal coat is pressed against the other side of the orifice, so as to stop it. When the bladder becomes thickened, in consequence of difficulty in passing the water, it sometimes happens that the ureters loose their valvular direction, so that the urine, when the bladder contracts, is partly forced back up the ureters ; the result is, that they become dilated, and so does the pelvis of the kidney. t Med. Chir. Trans, vol. iii. He says, ' These muscles guard the orifices of the ureters by preserving the obliquity of the passage, and pulling down the extremities of the ureters according to the degree of the contraction of the bladder generally.'