27 COMMON CAROTID ARTERY, Eemove this fascia, taking care not to cut away the descendens noni and commnnicantes noni nerves, which cross the sheath of the common carotid. Dissect out any absorbent glands which lie about the sheath of the great vessels. The common carotid arises on the right side from the relations of arteria innominata behind the right sterno-clavicular ^0 common articulation; on the left, from the arch of the aorta. It ascends in front of the bodies of the cervical ver- tebrae, by the side of the trachea, thyroid gland, and larynx, as high as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and then divides into the external and internal carotid. Thus a line drawn from the sternal end of the clavicle to a point midway between the mastoid process and the angle of the jaw, will nearly indicate its course. It is contained in a sheath of cervical fascia. In the same sheath are the internal jugular vein and the pneumogastric nerve. The vein lies on the outer side of, and parallel with, the artery: the nerve lies behind, and between the artery and the vein. Behind the sheath is the sympathetic nerve. Lastly, along the vertebral column the sheath lies successively upon the longus colli and the rectus capitis anticus major muscles. At the lower part of the neck the carotid artery is deeply seated; it is covered by the superficial fascia, platysma myoides, deep fascia, the sternal portion of the sterno-mastoid, the sterno-hyoid, and thyroid muscles, and about two inches above the clavicle it is crossed by the omo-hyoid. Above this point the artery becomes more supevficial, and is covered by the platysma, cervical fascias, and only slightly overlapped by the sterno-mastoid. Lying im- mediately upon the sheath of the artery, we find the descendens noni joined by the communicantes noni nerves. The aheath is crossed by three veins; namely, the facial, the superior, and middle thyroid-veins, which empty themselves into the internal^ jugular. This is the general rule, and especial attention should be directed to it, because the veins are liable to be overlooked and injured in the operation of tying the carotid. It is plain that it is easier to tie the common carotid above the omo-hyoid than below it. We make an incision (three inches long)