556 DISSECTION OV THE EVE, and cause the blood vessels on its surface to become injected, and its texture thickened and opaque.* Blood vessels ramify round the margin of the cornea, forming a network arranged in loops. The human eye is very nearly spherical, and would be quite so, but that the transparent part in front—the cornea—forms a seg- ment of a smaller sphere than the rest. Consequently, the antero- posterior diameter of the ball—about one inch—exceeds the trans- verse by about one line. The convexity of the cornea, however, varies in different persons, and at different periods of life; this is one cause of the several degrees of near-sight and far-sight. Coats AND '^^^ composed of three coats arranged one HUMouHs OF within the other. The external coat, consisting of the THE £ 7 ' 1 ^ scLerotic and cornea,' is fibrous, thick, and strong. The second coat, consisting of the ' choroid, the ins, and cilicoy pro- cesses,'' is composed of blood vessels, muscular tissue, and pigment cells, and is very dark in colour. The third coat, called the ' retina,' consists of the expansion of the optic nerve for the reception of the impression of light. The bulk of the interior is filled with a transparent humour called the ^vitreous.' Imbedded in the front of this, and just behind the pupil, is the crystalline lens for the purpose of concentrating the rays of light. In front of the lens is placed a movable curtain, called the ' iris,' in order to regulate the quantity of light which shall be admitted through the pupil. The space in which the iris is suspended is filled with a fluid termed the ' agioeous ' humour. The sclerotic is the tough protecting coat of the eye, Sclerotic and consists of white glistening fibres interlacing in all directions.! It covers about fths of the globe, the re- - * The facts of comparative anatomy confirm this view. In the serpent tribe, which annually shed their skin, the front of the cornea comes off with the rest of the external surface of the body. In the eel the surface of the cornea is often drawn off in the process of skinning. In some species of rodents which burrow under the ground like the mole, the eye is covered with hair like other parts. f The sclerotic coat of the eye in fislies is of extraordinary thickness and density, for obvious reasons ; and in birds this coat is further strengthened by a circle of bony plates, fourteen or fifteen in number, arrafiged in a series round the margin of the cornea. Similar plates are found in some of the reptiles, and particularly in the fossil icthyosauri and plcsiosauri.