CONTENTS OF FEMALE PELVIS, 413 should be vertical when introduced into the orifice of the vagina, and afterwards turned horizontally. The uterus is the receptacle which receives the ovum, retains it for nine months to bring it to maturity, and then expels it by virtue of its muscular walls. Its situation and peritoneal connections have been described (p. 409). We have now to notice that its axis slants forwards, so that, upon the whole, the axis of the vagina and uterus describes a curve nearly parallel to the axis of the pelvis. The uterus, then, is so placed that it is ready to rise out of the pelvis into the abdomen after the embryo has at- tained a certain size. The uterus in the unimpregnated state is pyriform, or rather tri- angular with the angles rounded, and is somewhat flattened antero- posteriorly. Its average size is about three inches long, two inches broad, and one inch thick, at the upper part: but there is variety in this respect, arising from age, the effect of pregnancies, and other causes. For convenience of description, the organ is divided into the fundus, the body, and the cervix. The term fundus is applied to that part which lies above the level of the Fallopian tubes, and is the broadest part of the viscus (p. 419). The body is the central part, while the cervix is the narrow part which projects into the vagina. The vagina is very closely attached round the neck of the utenis : observe that it is attached higher up behind than in front. The mouth of the uterus is at the apex of the neck. This is called the ' OS uteri; and by the old anatomists the ' os tincce; from its fancied resemblance to the mouth of a tench. Postponing for the present the examination of the interior of the vagina and uterus, let us pass on to the vessels and nerves of these organs Uterine and ^'^ addition to the ovarian arteries (which correspond Srifs *° spermatic arteries in the male) given off from the abdominal aorta (p. 335), each internal iliac artery fur- nishes a branch to the uterus and another to the vagina. The uterine artery proceeds from the anterior division of the in- ternal iliac, towards the neck of the uterus, between the layers of