432 STUUCTLiiE or the stomach. in different parts, according to the functions which it has to per- form. The stomach should be moderately distended to see Stomach. .^^ ^.^^^ ^^.^^ ^^^.^^ different subjects according to the habits of the individual. In shape it has been compared to the bag of a bag-pipe. When distended it is about twelve mches m length and about four in width. The stomach forms a large bulge to the left of the oesophagus, called the cardiac or cesophageal end: on the ricrht side, where the food passes out, it becomes small and contracted, and is called the pyloric end. Just before the pylorus, the stomach bulges into a pouch, called * antrum pylon: Anatomists describe the stomach as having two borders and two surfaces. The upper border is concave, and called the lesser curve: the lower border is convex and called the greater curve. The surfaces, anterior and posterior, are convex. On removing the serous investment of the stomach, the muscular coat is exposed. The fibres are of the non-striped variety and arranged m three layers, an external or longitudinal, a middle or circular, and an in- ternal or oblique. a- ^ The longitudinal fibres are continuous with the longitudmal fibres of the cesophagus, and spread out over the stomach : they are most numerous along the curves of the stomach. The circular fibres are well marked about the middle of the stomach, but are most abundant at the pylorus, where they form a powerful sphincter muscle. The oblique fibres are scattered over the sides of the stomach, and are the most distinct at the entrance of the cesophagus men the stomach is laid open, the mucous 'n^m.hrane seen to be of a pale colour, and gathered into longitudmal folds (r.^c), wh^h disappear when the stomach is full. The mucous membrane Ts connected to the muscular layer by a distinct stratum of areolar t s ue called the' submucous coat.' Its use is to permit^the mus- cu ar and mucous coats to move freely on each other and to serve as I bed, in which the blood vessels ramify minutely before they enter the mucous membrane. 1(1 portion of the mucou. membrane be examined under a microscope, its surface will be seen to be mapped out into small