PISSECTION OF THE EYE; 560 nised by its dai'k-brown colour and great vuHcularity. Posteriorly there is a circular aperture in it for the passage of the optic nerve. In front, the choroid is attached to the ciliary ligament, under which it extends forwards, round the circumference of the crystal- line lens, in a series of plaited folds, called the 'ciliary pro- cesses.^ It is connected to the sclerotic by fine cellular tissue— the lamina fusca—through which the ciliary vessels and nerves pass forwards. Under the microscope the choroid is found to consist of three layers—an external, composed of arterial and venous ramifica- tions ; a middle, composed of capillaries, and an internal, com- posed of pigment cells. The outer layer consists of the branches of the blood vessels, the arteries being chiefly arranged on its inner, the veins on its outer surface. The veins are arranged with great regularity in drooping branches {vasa vorticosd), like a weeping willow (fig. 135), and converge to four nearly equi- distant trunks, which, after running backwards for a short dis- tance, perforate the sclerotica not far from the entrance of the optic nerve, and empty themselves into the ophthalmic vein. The arteries which ramify on the inner side of the veins per- forate the sclerotica near the optic nerve, and then divide and subdivide into a very minute network. Between the vessels are found a number of stellate pigment cells, which communicate with each other. This middle layer, formed by the minute subdivisions of the ciliary arteries, is termed, after the Dutch anatomist Euysch, 'tunica Ruyschiana.'' It consists of a very delicate capillary network, which extends forwards to the ciliary processes. The inner layer is the pigment-matter of the choroid. It is merely adventitious, for, if the choroid be washed in water or spirit, the colour is entirely removed, leaving the membrane of a greyish tint. In man this pigment is dark brown, but in most animals it is jet black. Under the microscope, it is found to consist of minute hexagonal nucleated cells, filled with pigment granules, which are most numerous towards the margins of the cells. On the choroid it exists only as a single layer, but on the iris and