30 THYROID BODY; surface clasps the sides of the trachea and larynx, and usually ex- tends so far backwards as to be in contact with the pharynx. Its external border overlaps, in most cases partially, but sometimes completely, the common carotid artery, particularly on the right side; and there are instances in which the lobe is deeply grooved by the vessel. The isthmus lies over the second and third rings of the trachea. This portion of the organ varies much in its dimensions. In some instances there is no transverse portion. This corresponds with the normal disposition in most of the lower orders of mammalia; but in man, it is a failure in the union of the two halves by which the organ is originally developed.* Generally, the vertical measure- ment is about half an inch. Between its upper border and the cricoid cartilage is a space about four or five lines in extent, where the trachea is free; this space, therefore, is the more preferable situation for tracheotomy. But the vertical measurement of this isthmus is sometimes of very considerable length. We have seen it covering the trachea almost down to the sternum-f The thyroid body is closely connected, by fibrous tissue, to the sides of the trachea and cricoid cartilage. Hence it rises and falls with the larynx in deglutition. Taken as a whole, the thyroid varies in size in different indi- viduals and at different periods of life. It is relatively larger in the child than the adult, in the female than the male. In old * Concerning tlie development of the lateral halves and central portion of the thyroid body, see a paper by Callender in the Proceedings of the Eoj-al Society, 1867 t From the upper part of the isthmus, or from the adjacent border of eitlier lobe, most commonly the left, a conical prolongation of the thyroid body, caUed ' the pyramid,' fi-equently ascends in front of the crico-thyroid membrane, as high as the ' pomum Adami,' and is connected to the body of the os-hyoides by fibrous tissue. In some subjects we may observe a few muscular fibres passing from the os-hyoides to the pyramid. This constitutes the ' levator glandidse thyroideK ' (see preparation in Museum of St. Earth. Hosp., Patholog. Series, No. 14) of some anatomists. There are instances in which the pyramid is double; and, lastly, I have seen a considerable portion of this thyroid substance lying over the crico-thyroid membrane, completely isolated from the rest of the organ. These varieties deserve notice, because any one portion of this structure may become enlarged independent of the rest, and occasion a bronchocele.