DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. 24^ into the sides of the second phalanges. Its action is, therefore to bend the second joint of the fingers. Having finished the superficial muscles on the inner side of the forearm, notice one of those on the outer side, named supinator radii longus, before you trace the vessels and nerves of the fore- arm. Supinator ^^^^ muscle forms the external boundary of the rudii longus. triangular space at the bend of the elbow. It arises from the upper two-thirds of the external condyloid ridge of the humerus, commencing a little below the insertion of the-deltoid. The muscular fibres terminate about the middle of the forearm in a flat tendon, which is inserted into the base of the styloid process of the radius. The inner border of the muscle is the guide to the radial artery. It supinates the hand, but acts much more powerfully as a flexor of the forearm. Radial artery ^^^^'^^ artery, one of the divisions of the brachial, "runs down the radial side of the forearm to the wrist, where it turns over the external lateral ligament of the carpus,' beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, and sinks into the space between the first and second metacarpal bones to form the deep palmar arch. Thus, a line drawn from the middle of the bend of the elbow to the front of the styloid process of the radius indicates its course. In the upper third of the forearm, the artery lies between the pronator teres on the inner, and the supinator longus on the outer side; the fleshy border of the latter overlaps it in muscular subjects. In the lower two-thirds of the forearm the artery is more superficial, and is placed between the tendons of the supinator longus on the outer, and the flexor carpi radialis on the inner side. In its course, it lies successively on the follow- ing: first upon the tendon of the biceps; secondly, upon the supmator radii brevis ; thirdly, upon the tendon of the pronator teres; fourthly, upon the radial origin of the flexor sublimis; fifth y, upon the flexor longus pollicis; sixthly, upon the pronator quadratus: and, lastly, upon the radius. It is accompanied by two veins, which communicate at frequent intervals, and join the venffi comites of the brachial artery at the bend of the elbow.