561 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. ciliary processes several layers may be demonstrated.* The use of the pigment is to absorb the rays of light which pass through the retina, and prevent their being reflected. It serves the same purpose as the black paint with which the inside of optical instru- ments is darkened. Albinos, in whom the choroid has little or no pigment, are, consequently, dazzled by daylight, and see better in the dusk.f Ciliary body These structiu-es are best seen when the globe has and pro- been divided by a vertical section into an anterior and a posterior half, the vitreous humour being left undis- turbed. They should be regarded as a continuation of the choroid, and are arranged as a black circle, about three lines broad, sur- rounding the lens. The posterior boundary of this ring is smooth and flat, and defined by a dentated line. The anterior part presents a number of longitudinal plaits or folds, from sixty to seventy in number, alternately long and short, and arranged in a radiated manner round the circumference of the lens. One of these is seen in the diagram, p. 558. The entire ring is called the ciliary body; and the folds of it in front, the ciliary processes. The processes are kept in place by being attached to the ciliary liga- ment: they fit into corresponding depressions in the vitreous humour, and their free ends project for a short distance into the posterior chamber. They consist of convolutions of minute arte- ries, and their dark colour arises from the pigment on their surface. Their use is unknown. CiUary The ciliary ligament (fig. 135) is a whitish grey ring, ligament. about the ^th of an inch broad, situated just beneath * Dalrymple speaks of a very delicate membrane (membrane of Brucli) as lining the inner surface of the choroid, for the purpose of keeping the dark pigment in its place. A similar membrane may be detected on the posterior surface of the iris • other^se the pigment there would be apt to be washed away by the aqueous humour ' t In many of the nocturnal carnivorous quadrupeds, the inner surface of the choroid at the bottom of the eye presents a briUiant colour and metalUc lustre. It is called the tapetum. By reflecting the rays of light a second time through the retina, it probably causes the animal to see better in the dusk. It is the cause of the well- known glare of the eyes of cats and other animals ; and the great breadth of the luminous appearance arises from the dilatation of the pupil. 0 O