LUMBAR PLEXUSi 357 the sacral plexus under the name of the lumbo-sacral cord. The plexus lies over the transverse processes of the corresponding vertebrae, embedded in the substance of the psoas, so that this muscle must be dissected away before it can be seen. Like the brachial plexus, the nerves composing it successively increase in size from above. Its branches are five in number, and generally arise in the following order (fig. 72). ■ " The first lumbar nerve generally divides into two branches; the upper being commonly the ilio-hypogastric, the lower, the ilio-inguinaL They cross obliquely over the quadratus lumborum to the crest of the ilium, and then separate. The ilio-hypogastric passes through the transversalis, a,nd divides into its two terminal branches; the iliac branch, which supplies the skin over the glutaeal region, and the hypogastric branch, which runs forwards between the transversalis and internal oblique, and then perforates the aponeurosis of the external oblique in the hypogastric region to supply the skin. The ilio-inguinal perforates the transversalis and internal oblique, comes out through the external abdominal ring in front of the spermatic cord, and supplies the skin of the penis and scrotum in the male, and the labium in the female. The external cutaneous nerve of the thigh is generally derived from the second lumbar. It runs through the psoas, then, crossing obliquely over the iliacus towards the spine of the ilium, passes beneath the crural arch, and is finally distributed to the skin on the outside of the thigh. If the external cutaneous be not found in its usual situation, look for it as a distinct branch of the anterior crural, nearer the psoas muscle. The genito-crural nerve is of small size, and generally comes from the second lumbar. After perforating the psoas, it runs down along the outer side of the external iliac artery, and near the crural arch divides into the genital branch (g), which runs through the inguinal canal, on the under aspect of the spermatic cord, and supplies the cremaster; and the crural (e), which proceeds under the crural arch, and is lost in the skin of the upper part of the thigh, where it communicates with the middle cutaneous nerve.