270 MUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITir THE ARM. muscles are connected by a tliin aponeurosis over the spine and acromion. If both the trapezius muscles be exposed, you will see that, between the sixth cervical and the third dorsal vertebra, their origin presents an aponeurotic space of an elliptical form. The fixed point of the muscle being at the spine, all its fibres tend to raise the shoulder. The deltoid cannot raise the humerus beyond an angle of sixty degrees: beyond this the elevation of the arm is principally effected by the action of the trapezius rotating the scapula. It is in strong action when a weight is borne upon the shoulders; again, its middle and inferior fibres act powerfully in drawing the scapida backwards, as in preparing to strike a blow. If both muscles act, they draw the head backwards; if one, it draws the head to the same side. It is supplied by the nervus accessorius and the cervical plexus, and by the superficialis colli artery. This broad flat muscle occupies the lumbar and dorsr™^^ lower dorsal region, and thence extends to the arm, where it forms part of the posterior boundary of the axilla. It arises from the posterior third of the external lip of the crest of the ilium, from the spinous processes of the two upper sacral, all the lumbar and the six lower dorsal vertebrae by a strong aponeurosis; and, lastly, from the three or four lower ribs by digitations, which correspond with those of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. All the fibres converge towards the axilla, where they form a thick muscle, which curves round the inferior angle of the scapula, and is inserted by a broad, flat tendon, into the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus. The tendon is about two inches broad, and lies in front of that of the teres major, from which it is separated by a large bursa* The latissimus dorsi draws the humerus inwards and backwards ; rotating it also inwards. It also co-operates with the pectoralis major in pulling any object towards the body: if the humerus be the fixed point, it raises the body, as in climbing. The object of * The latissimus dorsi sometimes receives a distinct accessor^' slip from the inferior angle of the scapula. It is supplied by the long subscapular nerve.