241 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM. circulation if the bracliial artery were tied abo"«e the origin of the profunda. The profunda inferior arises from the brachial, opposite to the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, or sometimes by a common trunk with the superior profunda. It runs with the ulnar nerve on the inner head of the triceps (which it supplies), to the interval between the internal condyle and the olecranon, where it inoscu- lates with the posterior ulnar recurrent and anastomotica magna arteries. The medullary artery of the humerus arises sometimes from the brachial, sometimes from the inferior profunda. It pierces the tendon of the coraco-brachialis, runs obliquely downwards through the bone, and in the medullary canal divides into ascend- ing and descending brandies, which anastomose with the nutrient vessels of the bone derived from the periosteum. The anastomotica magna arises from the inner side of the brachial, about two inches above the elbow, runs tortuously in- wards across the brachialis anticus, and divides into branches, some of which pass in front of, others behind the internal condyle, anastomosing with the superior profunda, the inferior profunda, and the anterior ulnar recurrent arteries. Numerous unnamed muscular branches arise from the outer side of the brachial artery; one of these, more constant than the rest, supplies the biceps; another runs transversely beneath the coraco-brachialis and biceps, over the insertion of the deltoid, supplying this muscle and the brachialis anticus. Venae The two veins which accompany the brachial artery comites. are continuations of the deep radial and ulnar veins. The internal is usually the larger, since it generally receives the veins corresponding to the principal branches of the artery. In their course they are connected at intervals by transverse branches either in front of, or behind the artery. Near the subscapularis, the vena comes externa crosses obliquely in front of the axillary artery to join the vena comites interna, which then takes the name of ' axillary.' Now trace the great nerves of the upper arm, which proceed R