10 EXIT OF THE CRANIAL NEliVES. The student should now proceed to examine the nerves as they pass out of the base of the skull, and then to dissect the cavernous sinus. Exit of the "^^^ cranial nerves proceed in pairs through the cranial foramina at the base of the skull; they are named— nerves. ^^.^^^ second, third, fourth pair, &c., according to their order of succession from before backwards. The first pair are the olfactory nerves. These cannot be seen, because the olfactory bulbs are removed with the brain, and torn from the delicate filaments which pass through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. The second (optic nerve) passes through the foramen opticum into the orbit accompanied by the ophthalmic artery. The third {motor oculi) passes through the dura mat«r, close behind the anterior clinoid process, and enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure. The fourth {'patheticus), a small nerve, passes through the dura mater a little behind the posterior clinoid process. It then runs forwards through the sphenoidal fissure, when it lies above the third nerve, and is distributed to the superior oblique muscle. The fifth (trigeminal nerve) passes through an aperture in the dura mater beneath the tentorium cerebelli, just above the point of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Upon its larger or sensitive root, is developed a great ganglion called the ' Gassenan ganglion: From this ganglion proceed the primary divisions of the nerve—namely, the ophthalmic, which passes through the sphe- noidal fissure; the superior maxillary, thvongh the foramen ro- tundum ; and the inferior maxillary, through the foramen ovale. The small motor root of the fifth lies beneath the ganglion, with which it has no communication, and accompanies the inferior maxillary division to supply the muscles of mastication. The sixth (abducens) passes through the dura mater behind the termed the ' torcular Hcrophili,' after tlie celebrated anatomist who first described it. It is a kind of triangular reser\-oir, with the base below, and presents six openings— namely, that of the superior longitudinal sinus, tliose of the two lateral and of the two occipital, and that of the straight sinus. The term •torcular' is an incorrect ver- sion of the original word <ra>Kl\v (a canal or gutter), employed by Herophilus.