187 SUPEIllOll MAXILLAUY NKRVE. the right shoulder, the superior oblique muscle of the right side acts and keeps the right eye fixed on the object, and a similar effect is produced upon the left eye by the action of its inferior oblique muscle. When the head moves in a contrary direction, the other oblique muscles produce the same effect.' * This muscle has been particularly described by Horner,t an American anatomist. To expose it, cut perpendicularly through the middle of the upper and lower lids, and evert the inner halves towards the nose. After removing the mucous membrane, the muscle will be seen arising from the ridge on the lachrymal bone. It passes outwards and divides into two portions, which are inserted into the upper and lower tarsal cartilages, close to the orifices of the lachrymal ducts. It is probable that the tensor tarsi draws backwards the open mouths of the ducts, so that they may absorb the tears at the inner angle of the eye. It is supplied by a small branch of the facial nerve. Orbital This is always very small, and is sometimes absent, branch of Jt comes from the trunk of the superior maxillary in the superior ,■■ i -n / t \ maxillary tne spheno-maxillary tossa (see diagram), enters the nerve. orbit through the spheno-maxillary fissure, and divides into two branches. Of these, one, the temporal, after sending a branch of communication to the lachrymal nerve in the orbit, passes through a foramen in the malar bone to the temporal fossa. It then pierces the temporal aponeurosis an inch above the zygoma, and supplies the skin of the temple, joining the temporo- auricular branch of the inferior maxillary. The other branch, the malar {'subcutaneus malce^), ailso passes through a foramen in the malar bone, and supplies the skin of the cheek. Superior To trace this nerve and its branches, we must remove nen-e^Tnd '^"^^^ ^^^^ ^ expose the spheno- sphen'o-pala- maxillary fossa. tme ganglion. The Superior maxillary nerve is the second division of the fifth cerebral nerve. Proceeding from the Grasserian gan- * Observations on Certain Parts of the Animal Economy. t Philadelphia Journal, Nov. 1824. But this muscle was accuiately described by Rosenraiiller in his Handbuch der Anatomie. Leipzig, 1819.