DISSECTION OF THE OKBIT. 181 action when the eyes are open, in order to counteract the ten- dency of the lids to fall. As sleep approaches, the muscle relaxes, the eyes feel heavy, and the lids close. Its nerve comes from the superior division of the third nerve, and enters it on its under aspect. This muscle arises from the inner side of the fora- Miperk)r! opticum. It runs along the inner side of the orbit, and terminates in a round tendon, which passes through a cartilaginous pulley attached to the anterior and inner part of the roof of the orbit. From this pulley the tendon is reflected outwards and backwards to the globe of the eye. It gradually expands, and is inserted into the outer and back part of the sclerotica, between the external and superior recti. The pulley is lined by a synovial membrane, which is continued upon the tendon. The action of this muscle is to roll the eye on its own axis. It is supplied by the fourth nerve, which enters the back part of its upper surface. The frontal nerve and levator palpebrfB should now be reflected from their middle, to expose the superior rectus muscle. These four muscles have a tendinous origin round Eecti iu r ,■■ ^ muscles. ^be toramen opticum, so that collectively they embrace the optic nerve. They diverge from each other, one above, one below, and one on either side of the optic nerve; and are named, accordingly, rectus superior, inferior, externus, and intei^ms. Their broad thin tendons are inserted into the opposite sides of the sclerotic coat of the eye, about a quarter of an inch fi-ora the margin of the cornea (fig. 41). The external rectus not only arises from the circumference of the optic foramen, but has another origin from the lower margin of the sphenoid fissure. Between these origins pass the third nerve the nasal branch of the fifth, the sixth, and the ophthalmic vein! The recti muscles enable us to direct the eye towards different points; hence the names given to them by Albinus—attollens, depressor, adductor, and abductor oculi. It is obvious that by the smgle action of one, or the combined action of two, the eye can be turned towards any direction.