DISSECTION OF TJIE TONGUE. 176 the stylo-glossus. Four or five ducts proceed from each group, and terminate by separate orifices on the under surface of the tongue. Muscular '^^^ interior of the tongue is composed of muscular fibres of the fibre and of a small quantity of fat. The extrinsic tongue. muscles of the tongue have been described in the dis- section of the submaxillary region (p. 41). We have now to exa- mine its intriyisic muscles. For this purpose the mucous mem- brane must be removed from the top of the tongue. On dissection it will be found that the great bulk of the organ consists of fibres which proceed in a longitudinal direction, constituting the ' lin- guales' muscles. The lingualis of each half of the tongue is separated into a superior and inferior layer by some transverse fibres which pass nearly horizontally outwards from the ^fibrous septum ' of the tongue. The superior fibres run in a longitudinal direction under the mucous membrane of the dorsum, and are in- serted into the submucous tissue. The 'inferior fibres' (or ' ti^e lingualis''), more numerous than the preceding, are situated between the genio-hyo-glossus and the hyo-glossus, and proceed from the base to the apex of the tongue : these are readily exposed by dis- secting on the under surface of the tongue immediately on the outer surface of the genio-hyo-glossus. By the action of this mass of longitudinal fibres the tongue can be moved so as to reach any part of the mouth. Besides these longitudinal fibres, there are transverse fibres which arise from the fibrous septum. These pass outwards, running between the superior and inferior lingualis, and are inserted into the sides of the tongue. A considerable quantity of fat is found among these fibres. If we trace the genio-hyo-glos§i of opposite sides into the tongue, we find that some of their fibres ascend directly to the surface; others cross each other in the middle line, intersect the longitudinal fibres, and finally terminate upon the sides of the tongue. Lastly, the fibres of the stylo-giossus should be traced along the side of the tongue to the apex. In the mesial line, extending; from the base to the Fibrous / o septum of apex of the tongue, is found a vertical j^lane of fibrous tlie tongue, tissue, ' the fibrous septum ;' connected behind to the