DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. jy^ body of the hyoid bone, and lost in front between the muscles In it is sometimes found a piece of fibro-cartilage, called 'nucleus fibrosus lingum; a feeble representative of the lingual bone in some of the lower animals. The nei-ves supplying the tongue should be followed into its substance. The hypoglossal nerve supplies all the muscles with motor power. The gustatory or lingual branch of the fifth pair is distributed to the mucous membrane about the apex and sides of the tongue, and endows it with most acute sensibility. Upon this nerve depends the sensation of all ordinary impressions, such as that of hardness, softness, heat, cold, and the like. The glosso- pharyngeal nerve supplies the mucous membrane at the back and sides of the tongue. It is especially a nerve of taste. DISSECTION OP THE OEBIT. To expose the contents of the orbit, saw through the roof of the orbit as far back as the optic foramen, making one section on the, outer side and the other on the inner side of the roof. In doino- this, be careful not to injure the little pulley on the inner side fo? the superior oblique. The anterior fourth of the roof should be. left m situ, the remainder removed by bone forceps. The eyeball should be made tense by blowing air through a blow-pipe, passed well into the globe through the end of the optic nerve. Periosteum of;. The roof being removed, we expose the fibrous mem- the orbit. orane, which lines the walls of the orbit. It is a con- tinuation of the dura mater through the sphenoidal fissure. Traced forwards, we find that at the margin of the orbit It divides into two layers, one of which is continuous with the periosteum of the forehead, the other forms the broad tarsal liga- ment which fixes the tarsal cartilage. Paseia of , The fascia of the orbit serves the same purpose that the orbit. tascia does m other parts. It provides the lachrymal gland, and each of the muscles, with a loose sheath ve Tn t '^^'^ ^^^^ ^^--g- -ar The eye. In this situation it passes from one rectus muscle to the