llEXAL CAPSULES. 430 Fig. 95. close to where the artery entered. Instead of leaving the kidney, as in other organs, it forms a venous plexus round the convolutions of the urinary tube.* The special purpose of this plexus appears to be the secretion of the solid matter of the urine; while the Malpighian body filters the watery part of the urine into the capsule, and washes the more solid part down the tube.f The coil of vessels in the capsule is surrounded by the epithelium lining the interior of the capsule. The nerves forming the renal plexus are de- rived from the smallest splanchnic nerves and the solar plexus. The lymphatics pass to the lumbar glands. These bodies, situated at the top of V. Vein, or efferent vessel. Supra-renal ^^i^^ kidneys, belong to the class of lv!iZ tube. cluctless glands. The right resembles a cocked hat, the left is more almond-shaped. They measure about li inch in their long diameter, and weigh from one to two drachms. They are surrounded by a thin fibrous covering, which sends down partitions into the interior through furrows upon their surface. A perpendicular section shows that it consists of a firm exterior or cortical part, and of an interior or medullary substance, soft and pulpy. The corrical portion is of a yellow colour, and forms the principal part of the organ. Examined under the microscope, it appears to be composed of clusters of columns about -j^th. of an inch in diameter, arranged perpendicularly to the surface. These columns do not run completely through the thickness of the cortical portion, but have a layer of cells arranged above and below * For a summary of the opinion held by various observer.s, respecting these Mal- pighian corpuscles, considt a paper by E. Southey, M.D., St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Eeports, vol. i. 1865. , , „ ^ ,. t That the vessel leaving the Malpighian body is a vein, and that a constituent part of the urine is secreted by venous blood, is inferred from two reasons : 1. From the analogous case of the vena porta, out of which the bile is elaborated in the liver ; 2 from the fact that in reptiles the urine is secreted from venous blood.