ARTERIES OF THE FACE. 76 a. The inferior labial artery passes inwards under the de- pressor anguli oris and inosculates with the mental branch of the inferior dental and the inferior coronary artery, 6. The inferior coronary artery comes oflf near the angle of the mouth, runs tortuously along the lower lip, between the mucous membrane and the orbicularis muscle, and inosculates with its fellow. c. The superior coronary proceeds along the upper lip close to the mucous membrane, and inosculates with its fellow; thus a complete arterial circle is formed round the mouth. These arteries can be felt pulsating on the inner side of the lip, near the free border. From this circle numerous branches pass oflf to the papillse of the lips, and the labial glands. The superior coronary gives off a small branch (artery of the septum) which ascends along the septum to the apex of the nose. d. The lateral artery of the nose, a branch of considerable size, arises opposite the ala nasi, ramifies upon the external surface of the nose, and inosculates with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. e. The angular artery, which may be regarded as the termina- tion of +he facial, inosculates on the'inner side of the tendo oculi with the ophthalmic. The facial artery supplies numerous branches to the muscles of the face, and inosculates with the transversalis faciei, infra-orbital, and mental arteries. The facial artery and its branches are surrounded by a minute plexus of nerves (nervi molles), invisible to the naked eye. They are derived from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympa- thetic, and exert a powerful influence over the contraction and dilatation of the capillary vessels, and thus occasion those sudden changes in the countenance indicative of certain mental emotions, e. g. blushing or sudden paleness.* * M. Bernard and Brown Sequart have proved by experiment that if the branches of the sympathetic, which accompany the facial artery, bo divided, the capillary vessels of the face, being deprived of their contractile power, become immediately distended with blood, and the temperature of the face is raised.