209 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. the back of the sacrum. The upper two or three divide inta external and internal branches. The internal terminate in the multifidus spinas; the external become cutaneous and supply the skin of the gluteal region. The last two sacral nerves proceed, without dividing, to the integument. The coccygeal nerve is exceedingly small, and, after joining a small branch from the last sacral, terminates in the skin.* Vessels of vessels which supply the back are:—1. Small theTacL branches from the occipital; 2. Small branches from the vertebral; 3. The deep cervical; 4. The posterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar ai-teries. The occipital artery furnishes several small branches to the muscles at the back of the neck ; one, larger than the rest (called arteria princeps cervicis), descends beneath the complexus, and in some subjects inosculates with the deep cervical artery, and with small branches from the vertebral. The deep cervical artery is the posterior branch of the first in- tercostal artery. It passes backwards between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the first rib: it then ascends between the complexus and the semispinalis colli. T:\ieposterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries accompany the corresponding nerves, and are in all respects similar to them in distribution. Each sends a small branch into the spinal canal. The veins correspond to the arteries. Pra-yertebral *° examine three muscles situated in muscles. ^ont of the Spine; namely, the longus colli, the rectus capitis anticus major, and the rectus capitis anticus mmor. In order to have a complete view of the two latter a special dissection should be made, before the head is removed from the first vertebra. Longus colli. T^i'^ muscle is situated in front of the spine and extends fi-om the third dorsal to the first cervical vertebra. For convenience of description it is divided into thr. ree * The branching of the posterior divisions of the several spinal nerves has been accurately described by Mr. Ellis, Med. Gazette, Feb. 10, 1843