GALL-BLADDER AND SPLEEN. 425 The f unctions of the Kver may be thus briefly expressed • 1 It renders the albuminous matter (albuminose) brought to it by the portal vein capable of being assimilated by the blood. 2. It forms a substance closely allied to sugar, which passes into the hepatic veins, and being consumed in the process of respiration, helps to maintain animal heat. 3. It secretes the bile, which assists in converting the chyme into chyle, and reducing it into a state fit to be absorbed by the lacteals. 4. The bile acts as a natural aperient, 5. The bile is an antiseptic, and probably pre- vents the food becoming decomposed during its passage through the intestines. GaU-bladder. gall-bladder, a reservoir for the bile, is confined ■ by the peritoneum in a slight depression on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver (p. 422). lb is pyriform in shape, and varies in size in different subjects; generally speaking, it is about four inches long, and capable of holding about li oz. of fluid. Its narrow end, or neck, makes a bend downwards, and terminates in a duct, called the ' cystic,' which, after a course of about an inch and a half, joins the hepatic duct at an acute angle (fig. 67, p. 338). The common duct, ' ductus communis ckoledochus; formed by their union, is about three or four inches long, and opens into the back of the descending part of the duo- denum, after running very obliquely through the coats of the bowel. Exclusive of its partial peritoneal covering, the gall-bladder has two coats—the outer, consisting of fibro-cellular tissue, contains involuntary muscular fibres, which run mainly in the long axis of the gall-bladder; the inner is the mucous coat. The gall-bladder should now be laid open. Its mucous mem- brane is generally tinged yellow by bile, and gathered into ridges which give it a honey-comb appearance. This appearance is most marked in the middle of the gall-bladder: in the depressions between the ridges may be seen with a magnifying glass nume- rous openings leading down to mucous follicles. It is covered by columnar epithelium, which secretes an abundance of viscid mucus. At the bend of the neck of the gall-bladder, both its