LIGAMENTS OF THE SPINE. 212 the mechanism of the spine. Its peculiar structure is adapted to break shocks, and to render the spine flexible and resilient. To see the structure of an intervertebral fibro-cartilage, a horizontal section must be made through one of them. It is firm and resist- ing near the circumference, but soft and pulpy towards the centre. The circumferential portion is composed of concentric layers of fibro-cartilage, placed vertically. These layers are attached by their edges to the vertebrae; they gTadually decrease in number from the circumference towards the centre, and the interstices between them are filled by the soft pulpy tissue. The central portion is composed almost entirely of this pulpy tissue; and it bulges when no longer under pressure. Thus the bodies of the vertebrae, in their motions upon each other, revolve upon a ball of £uid tightly girt all round by bands of fibrous tissue. These motions are regulated by the articular processes. Dissect an intervertebral substance layer after layer in front, and you will find that the circumferential fibres extend obliquely between the vertebrae, crossing each other like the branches of the letter X. The thickness of the intervertebral cartilages is not the same in front and behind. It is this difference in their thickness, more than that in the bodies of the vertebra?, which produces the several curves of the spine. In the lumbar and cervical regions they are thicker in front; in the dorsal region behind.* * The structure of tlie intervertebral cartilages explains the ■well-kno'vra fact, that a man becomes shorter after standing for some hours; and that he regains liis usual height after rest. The difference between the morning and evening stature amounts to more than half an inch. It also explains the fact that a permanent lateral cm-vature of the spine may be produced (especially in the young) by the habitual practice of leaning to this or that side. Experience proves that the cause of lateral curvature depends more frequently upon some alteration in the structure of the fibro-cartilages than upon the bones. From an examination of the bodies of one hundred and thirty-four individuals with crooked spines, it was concluded that in two-thirds the bones were perfectly healthy ; that the most frequent cause of curvature resided in the invertebral substances ; these being, on the concave side of the curve, almost absorbed, and on the convex side pre- ternaturally developed. As might be expected in these cases, the muscles on the convex side become lengthened, and degenerate in structure.—On this subject se^ HUdthrandCs Anatomie, B. ii. s. 155.