NERVES OF THE SCALP. 3 and is inserted into the cranial aspect of the upper part of the concha. The situation of this muscle, which is smaller than M. attrahens ^j^g preceding, is indicated by the prominence of skin, produced by drawing backwards the front part of the helix. It arises from the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis, and is inserted into the front of the helix. This muscle is exposed by reflecting the skin from M. retrahens j.jjg ^(jge produced by drawing the pinna forwards. It proceeds from the base of the mastoid process to the lower part of the concha. The retrahens and the attollens aurem are supplied by the auricular branch of the facial nerve; the attrahens by an offset from the temporal branch of the same nerve. The supra-orbital nerve is a branch of the ophthalmic thricalp^ division of the fifth. It emerges from the orbit through the notch of the frontal bone, and subdivides into branches, which are covered at first by the fibres of the orbicularis and occipito-frontalis ; but they presently become subcutaneous : some of them may be traced over the top of the head as far as the occipital bone. The supr^a-trochlear nerve is an offset from the frontal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth. It appears at the inner angle of the eyelids, and supplies the .skin of the forehead. The superficial temporal nerves ramify in compa.ny with the arteries of the same name. Some of them are derived from the superior, and some from the inferior maxillary division of the fifth pair ; others from the facial. The posterior auricular nerve is a branch of the facial, and runs with its corresponding artery behind the pinna of the ear, to supply the attollens and retrahens aurem, and the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis. The great occipital nerve is the posterior branch of the second cervical nerve. After passing through the complexus, it appears on the occiput with the occipital artery, and divides into wide- spreading branches, which supply the skin over the occiput.