DISSECTION OF THE AXJLLA. 223 Axillary This tough membrane, -which lies immediately be- fascia. neath the skin of the axilla, is a continuation of the general investment of the muscles. It closes in and forms the floor of the cavity of the axilla. Externally it is strengthened by fibres from the tendons of the pectoralis major and°latissimus dorsi, and is continuous with the fascia of the arm; internally,- it is prolonged on the side of the chest, over the serratus magnus muscle; in front and behind, it divides so as to inclose between its layers the muscles which form the boimdaries of the axilla. Thus the anterior layer incloses the two pectoral muscles, and is connected with the coracoid process, the costo-coracoid ligament, and the clavicle; the posterior layer incloses the latissimus dorsi,' and passes backwards to the spine. A subcutaneous artery, sometimes of considerable size, often runs in the substance of the axillary fascia. It generally arises from tlie brachial, or from the lower part of the axillary, and runs across the floor of the axiUa towards the lower edge of the pecto- ralis major. So far as I know, it has not hitherto been named- but It is worth remembering, because it would occasion much haemorrhage if wounded in opening an abscess. Contents of Eemove the axillary fascia, and display the boundaries _ and the contents of the axilla. The dissection of this cavity is difficult, and you must proceed cautiously. Bear in mind that the trunk blood-vessels and nerves run through the upper part of the axilla; that the long thoracic artery runs along the anterior border, and the subscapular artery along the posterior. Commence working, therefore, in the middle: break down with the handle of the scalpel the loose connective tissue, fat, and absorbent glands, which occupy the cavity. You will soon dis- cover some cutaneous nerves coming out between the ribs, and then crossing the axillary space. These nerves are the lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves ^ they perforate the intercostal spaces between the digitations of the serratus magnus, midway between the sternum and the spine, and divide into anterior and _ posterior branches. The anterior turn over the pectorahs major, to supply the skin on the front of the chest and