429 KIDNEY. The coriical structure, deeper in colour than the medullary, forms the outer part of the kidney, and dips down between the pyramids. It consists of convoluted tubes, and of small red bodies called Malpighian corpuscles. At the 'hilus' is the dilated commencement of the ureter, called the pelvis of the kidney. It is funnel-shaped, and its broad part divides into two principal channels, which again branch and form from eight to twelve cup-like excavations, called the calices. Into each of these calices one, sometimes two, papilla project. Between the calices the branches of the renal artery ascend to ramify in the kidney, lying imbedded in a quantity of fat. With a lens, the papilla may be seen studded with minute apertures, which are the terminations of the uriniferous tubes. These tubes as they pass outwards run straight, bifurcate repeatedly, and enter the cortex in bundles of straight tubes, forming the 'pyramids of Ferrein.' They vary from the ^^^th to ^th of an inch in dia- meter, and are largest towards their termination. On entering the cortex, the tubes become convoluted, and are surrounded by minute plexuses of blood vessels. The tubuli uriniferi, the pelvis of the kidney, and the ureter, are lined by spheroidal epithe- lium.* The Malpighian corpuscles are situated in the cortical portion and average about ^-i^th of an inch in diameter. According to' Bowman,! each is formed by the dilatation of the uriniferous tube. It is composed of a homogeneous membrane, and is pierced by a small artery, which enters the capsule opposite to the com- mencement of the urinary tube. In the capsule the arterv breaks up into a coil of minute vessels (glomerulus), which returns its blood by a vein (efferent vessel), which emerges from the capsule ''''' '^"'^^ pyramidal arrangement of the tubes. But m the kidneys of the lower mammalia, of birds and reptiles the lobes are permanently separate. ^ ' * Between the straight tubes in the Malpighian pyramids, there have recently been discovered numerous smaller tubules, named the looped tuhes of Henle. These are said to come off from the straight tubes, to descend towards the Ipex of the p "amid where hey form loops, and again ascend to terminate in the Malpighian corpj cTeT t Philosoph. Trans, for 1842. Part I. toipuscies.