MALE PER1NEU3I. These muscles are moulded, one upon each crus of penis"^^'' penis. Eacli muscle arises from the inner surface of the tuber ischii : the fibres ascend, completely cover- ing the crus, and terminate on a strong aponeurosis, which is inserted into the external and inferior aspect of the crus. The action of these muscles is to compress the root of the penis, and so to contribute to the erection of the organ. Transversi ^^^^^ muscles are of insignificant size, and sometimes periner""^' absent. They arise, one on each side, from the tuber ischii, and proceed towards the central point of the perineum, where they are blended with the fibres of the accelerator" urin^. This muscle with its artery is divided in lithotomy. The next stage of the dissection consists in reflecting and re- moving the accelerator uriniB from the bulb of the urethra, the erector penis with the crus penis from the rami of the pubes and ischium, and the transversi perinei muscles. This done, the triangular ligament or ' deep perineal fascia' is fairly exposed. Triangular Understand that the 'triangular ligament of the theurlrl ^^^'^^^^' the deep perineal fascia are synonymous ■ terms. _ The triangular ligament, shown in fig. 77, is a strong and re- sisting membrane stretched across the upper part of the pubic arch. On each side it is firmly attached to the posterior lip of the rami of the pubes and ischium; superiorly, i.e. towards the symphysis of the pubes, it is connected with the sub-pubic liga- ment ; inferiorly, it does not present a free border, but is connected to the tendinous centre of the perineum, and becomes identified with the deep layer of the superficial perineal fascia under the transversus perinei muscle (p. 367). This ligament, by most anatomists, is described as composed of two layers, an anterior and a posterior, between which the membranous portion of the urethra is situated. The anterior layer becomes continuous below with the superficial perineal fascia; the posterior is a part of the pelvic fascia, and is lost upon the prostate. _ The membranous part of the urethra runs through the triangular ligament about one inch below the symphysis pubis. The aperture B B