LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE. 506 several movements of the joint; they distribute pressure over a greater surface; they equalise pressure and prevent shocks. They are thickest at the circumference, and gradually shelve off to a thin margin: thus they fit in between the bones, and adapt a convex surface to a flat one, as shown in fig. 112. Their form is suited to the condyles; the inner being oval, the outer circular. The ends of each are firmly attached by ligaments to the pits in front and behind the spine of the tibia; but the ends of the in- ternal one are attached further from the spine than the external. The cartilages are connected in front by a thin ' transverse' liga- ment ; and their circumference is attached round the head of the tibia by fibrous tissue (called the ' coronary ' ligament), yet not so closely as to restrict their range of motion.* Their respective points of attachment are such, that Uglmcnts^^^ when the joint is extended, all the ligaments are tight, to prevent extension beyond the perpendicular; thus muscular force is economised. But when the joint is bent the ligaments are relaxed, enough to admit a slight rotatory movement of the tibia. This movement is more free outwards than inwards; and is effected, not by rotation of the tibia on its own Pig. 114. axis, but by rotation of the outer head round the inner. Eotation outwards is produced by the biceps; rotation inwards by the popliteus and semimembranosus. The crucial ligaments, though placed inside the joint, answer the same purposes as the coronoid process and the olecranon of the elbow. They make the tibia slide properly forwards and backwards. The anterior espe- cially limits extension ; the po.sterior, flexion. They not only prevent dislocation in front or behind, but they prevent lateral displacement, since they cross each other like braces, as shown in fig. 114. » Of the two cartilages the external has the greater freedom of motion, because in Totation of the knee the outer side of the tibia moves more than the inner. Conse- quently, it is not iu any way connected to the lateral ligament; so far from this, it is separated from it by the tendon of the popliteus, of which the play is facilitated by a bursa communicating freely with the joint. For this reason the external cartilage is more liable to dislocation.