52 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. first rib, at the lower border of which it takes the name of 'axil- lary.' The artery describes a curve, of which the greatest con- vexity is between the scalene muscles. The height to which the arch ascends varies. Generally, it rises higher in women than in men, on the right side than on the left. To study its relations more precisely, the course of the sub- clavian is divided into three parts :—1. The part which intervenes between its origin and the inner border of the scalenus anticus. 2. That which lies behind the scalenus. 3. That which intervenes between the outer border of the scalenus and the lower border of the first rib. The fii-st portion of the artery lies deeply in the neck and passes upwards and outwards to the inner border of the scalenus anticus. It is covered by the skin, platysma, superficial and deep fasciae, the sternal end of the clavicle, the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, and a layer of deep fascia, continued from the inner border of the scalenus anticus. It is crossed by the internal jugular and vertebral veins, by the pneumogastric and phrenic nerves, and by some cardiac filaments of the sympathetic. Behind the artery are the recurrent branch of the pneumogastric, the sympathetic nerve, the apex of the lung and the pleura. Three branches arise from this portion of the subclavian—viz., the vertebral, internal mammary, and thyroid axis. In the second part of its course, the artery Ues between the scalene muscles. It is covered by skin, platysma, and superficial fascia, by the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, the deep cervical fascia, and by the scalenus anticus and phrenic nerve which separate it from the subclavian vein. Behind the artery is the scalenus medius; above it, is the brachial plexus. Only one branch, the superior intercostal, is given off from this part of the artery. In the third part of its course, the artery passes downwards and outwards, and lies upon the surface of the first rib. Here it is covered by the skin, platysma, and two layers of the cervical fascia; subsequently by the supra-scapular artery, the clavicle,the