550 SPINAL CORD. ganglion on the posterior root, which it joins in the intervertebral foramen. The compound nerve formed by the junction of the two roots divides, outside the intervertebral foramen, into an anterior and a posterior branch. See diagram, p. 548. „ . . . The direction and length of the roots of the nerves Variation in o i • i i.t_ length of vary in the different regions of the spine, because the the roots. respective parts of the cord from which they arise are not opposite the foramina through which the nerves leave the spinal canal. In the upper part of the cervical region, the origins of the nerves and their point of exit are nearly on the same level: therefore the roots proceed transversely, and are very short. But as we descend from the neck, the obliquity and length of the roots gradually increase, so that the roots of the lower dorsal nerves are at least two vertebrae higher than the foramina through which they emerge. Again, since the cord itself terminates at the second lumbar vertebra, the lumbar and sacral nerves must of necessity pass down from it almost perpendicularly through the lower part of the spinal canal. To this bundle of nerves the old anatomists have given the name of ' caucla equina,^ Cauda equina. . , , , , ? , m from its resemblance to a horse s tail. In brief, then, it appears that the spinal cord consists of two precisely symmetrical halves, separated in front and behind by a deep median fissure; that the two halves are connected at the bottom of the anterior fissure by an anterior or white commissure —at the bottom of the posterior fissure by the posterior or grey commissure; that each half of the cord is divided into three tracts or columns of longitudinal nerve fibres— an anterior, a posterior, and a lateral—the boundaries between them being the respective lines of origin of the roots of the spinal nerves ; that the interior of the cord contains grey matter disposed in the form of two crescents placed with their convexities towards each other, and connected by a transverse bar of grey matter, which is the posterior commissure. -r,, 1 1 The cord is supplied with blood by—1, the anterior Blood yessels , ^ ,i j ii i of the cord, spinal artery, which commences at the medulla oD-