296 SIIOULDER-JOINT. either vertical or horizontal: thus it admits of circumduction. These movements, though limited at the sternum, are considerable at the apex of the shoulder. The outer end of the clavicle articulates with the COXKECTIO^J OF THE CT.A- acromion, and is connected by strong ligaments to the vicLE WITH coracoid process of the scapula. THE SCAPULA. . ' . i ; 7 • j Joint between the acromion and the clavicle.—The clavicle and the acromion articulate with each other by two flat oval cartilaginous surfaces, of which the planes slant inwards, and the greater diameters are in the antero-posterior direction. The su'pevior ligament, a broad band of ligamentous fibres, strengthened by the aponeurosis of the trapezius, extends from the upper surface of the acromion to the upper surface of the clavicle. The inferior ligament, of less strength, extends along the under surface of the joint from bone to bone. An interarticidar fibro-cartilage is sometimes found in this joint: but it is incomplete, and seldom extends lower than the upper half. There is only one synovial membrane, Coraco-clavicular ligament.—The clavicle is connected to the coracoid process of the scapula by two strong ligaments—the conoid and trapezoid, which, being continuous with each other, might fairly be considered as one. The trapezoid ligament is the more anterior and external. It arises from the back part of the coracoid process, and ascends obliquely outwards to the clavicle, near its outer end. The conoid ligament is fixed at its apex to the root of the coracoid process, ascends vertically, and is attached by its base to the clavicle, near the posterior border. When the clavicle is fractured in the line of the attachment of the coraco- clavicular ligament, there is no displacement of the fractured ends ; these being kept in place by the ligament. Ligaments proper to the scapula.—There are two : the coracoid ligament, attached to the margins of the supra-scapular notch ; and the coraco-acromial or triangular ligament, attached by its apex to the acromion, and by its base to the outer border of the cora- coid process. It is separated from the upper part of the capsule of the shoulder-joint by a large bursa.