PAllTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. 446 , , The lower border of the aponeurosis of the external Crural arch , r ^ • • • or Poupart's oblique muscle extends from the anterior superior spine ligament. ileum to the spine of the pubes, and forms, over the bony excavation beneath, what is called the ' crural arch' or ' Poupart's ligament.' (It is marked by the dark line in fig. 100.) The direction of the arch is at first somewhat oblique, but towards its inner half, becomes nearly horizontal. In consequence of its intimate connection with the muscular fascia of the thigh, the line of the arch describes a gentle curve with the convexity downwards. The arch is attached to the spine of the pubes, and also for some distance along the linea ilio-pectinea (fig. 100). This additional attachment, called, after its discoverer, Gimbernafs ligament* is of importance, for it is most frequently the seat of stricture in femoral hernia. The best view of Grimbernat's ligament is obtained Gimbernafs ^^.^^ within the abdomen, it being only necessary to ligament. ^j^g peritoneum. It is placed nearly horizon- tally, in the erect posture, and is triangular with its apex at the pubes and its base directed outwards. In front, it is continuous with the crural arch; behind, it is inserted into the linea ilio- pectinea ; externally, it is continuous with the fascia lata (fig. 99). Its length is from |ths of an inch to 1 inch ; but it varies in diflFerent subjects, and is usually longer in the male than the female: this is one amoncr many reasons whv femoral hernia is less frequent m the male. On°putting your finger into the femoral ring, you feel the sharp and wiry edge of this ligament: observe, too, that as the body lies on the table, the plane of the ligament is perpendicular, and therefore that it recedes from the surface. The crural arch transmits from the abdomen into Arrangement ^j^g ^j^jo-h (proceeding in order from the outer side) the folfowing objects, shown in fig. 100: 1. The ex- underthe ^.^^,^^^1 cutaneous nerve; 2. The iliacus and psoas muscles, with the anterior crural nerve between them; 3. The femoral artery and vein with the crural branch of the * Don Antonio de Gimbernat was a Spanish surgeon, who published, in 1793, A new Method of Operating for the Femoral Hernia. Madind.