513 MEMBRANES OF THE BKAIN, p. This, the immediate investing membrane of the brain, is extremely vascular; and composed of a net- work of blood vessels held together by the finest connective tissue. From its internal sui'face, small branches pass off at right angles into the interior of the brain. The pia mater dips into the fissures between the convolutions, and penetrates into the ventricles for the supply of their interior, forming the ' velum interpositum ' and the ' choroid plexuses.' The brain is supplied with blood by the two internal Arteries ot carotid and the two vertebral arteries. the brain. This artery enters the skull through the carotid canal Intermil in the temporal bone, and mounts up very tortuously by the side of the body of the sphenoid, along the inner wall of the cavernous sinus. It appears on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, and, after giving off the ophthalmic, divides into the anterior and middle cerebral, and the posterior communicating arteries. a. The anterior cerebral artery sinks into the longitudinal fissure between the hemispheres, curves round the front part of the corpus callosum, and then runs backwards along its upper surface (under the name of artery of the corpus callosum), and terminates in branches which anastomose with the posterior cerebral. The anterior cerebral arteries of opposite sides run close together; and at the base of the brain are connected■ by a transverse branch, called the ' anterior communicating aHory' (fig. 119). 6. The middle cerebral artery, the largest branch of the internal carotid, runs deep in the fissure of Sylvius, and divides into many branches, distributed to the anterior and middle lobes. Near its origin it gives off a multitude of. little arteries, which pierce the locus perforatus a,nticus to supply the corpus striatum. c. The posterior communicating artery proceeds directly back- wards to join the posterior cerebral; thus establishing at the base of the brain the free arterial inosculation called the ' circle of Willis.' d. The anterior choroid artery, a small branch of the internal