PERICARDIUM. llo worth remembering that the oesophagus is in close contact with the back of the pericardium for nearly two inches; this fact accounts for what one sometimes observes in cases of pericarditis where there is much effusion ; I mean pain and difficulty in swal- lowing. The pericardium is what is called a 'fibro serous' membrane. Its fibrous layer, which constitutes its chief strength, is external. This laj^er is attached below to the central tendon of the diaphragm. Above, it forms eight sheaths for the vessels at the base of the heart; namely, one for the vena cava superior, four for the pul- monary veins, two for the pulmonary arteries, and one for the aorta. The serous layer forms a shut sac. It lines the fibrous layer, and is reflected over the great vessels and the heart. To see where the serous layer is reflected over the vessels, distend the pericardium with air. Thus you will find that this layer is reflected over the aorta as high as the origin of the arteria innomiuata. It is reflected over the vena cava superior, after the entrance of the vena azygos.* In the healthy state the capacity of the pericardium pretty nearly corresponds to the size of the heart when distended to its utmost. The healthy pericardium, with the heart in situ, may be made to hold in the adult about ten ounces of fluid. The peri- cardium is not extensible. V/hen an aneurism bursts into it, death » Those who choose to follow the reflections of the serous layer of the pericardium, will find that it covers the great vessels to an extent greater than is generally imagined' though in tnith the extent is not precisely similar in all bodies. The aorta and pul- monary artery are wrapped in a complete sheath, two inches in length, so that these vessels are covered all round by the serous layer, except where they are in contact Iiideed you can pass your finger behind them both, through a foramen bounded in front by the two great vessels themselves, behind, by the upper part of the auricles and above by the r.glat puln.onary artery. Again, the back of the aorta, where it lies on t .e auncles, is covered by the serous pericardium. The superior cava is covered all round, except behind where it crosses the right pulmonary artery. What little Here is of the inferior cava within the pericardium is also covered all round. The amicr l"7 r'"^ f"''''■^^ : ^'gl^fc ^'^^ ^Behind the i^ni !;, / "'^ ^^'^^"^^ fheform of a pouch, rising above their upper border, so as to be loosely connected to the left bronchus