DISSECTION or THE LAKYNX. 1G6 cartilages, forming the ' aryteno-epiglottidean' folds which bound the entrance into the larynx. In the natural state it is of a pale rose colour, and covered by ciliated epithelium below the false vocal cords, above these by squamous epithelium. The mucous membrane of the larynx is remarkable for its acute sensibility. This is requisite to guard the glottis during the passage of the food over it. The glottis is closed during the act of deglutition; but, if during this process, any one attempt to speak or laugh, the glottis opens, and allows the food to go, as it is termed, the wrong way. As soon as the foreign body touches the mucous membrane of the larynx, a spasmodic fit of coughing expels it. The sub-mucous tissue of the larynx is studded with mucous glands. An oblong mass of them lies in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold, and they are particularly numerous about the ' ventricles' of the larynx. The surface of the epiglottis towards the tongue is abundantly provided with them. Their ducts pass through the epiglottis, and may be recognised as minute openings on its laryn- geal aspect. This is the opening by which the larynx communi- opfni'ng'*of cates with the pharynx. Its outline is triangular, with the larynx. -^^ ^^^^ directed forwards. Anteriorly it is bounded by the epiglottis, laterally by the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, pos- teriorly by the arytenoid cartilages. The apex presents the funnel- shape appearance from which the arytenoid cartilages derive their name. Inferior Jjook down into the larynx and observe the trian- openingof gular horizontal opening in the middle line; this is the t%]^T^' 'rima glottidis; or 'glottis: Its apex is directed glottidis. forwards, its base backwards. The anterior two-tnirds of this opening is bounded by the inferior or true vocal cords, the posterior third by the arytenoid cartilages. Above the true vocal cords are situated the superior or false vocal cords. On each side of the larynx, between the true and false vocal cords, is a small recess, the ventricle of the larynx, which leads into a pouch called ' sacculus lat-yngis: Pass the handle of the scalpel into one of