32 THYROID BdDf. ripon their walls. Of its functions nothing is with certainty- known. The presumption is, that it is concerned in the elabora- tion of the blood. An enlargement of the thyroid body is termed a ' Bronchocele.' If the relation of its lobes to the trachea and oesophagus be pro- perly understood, it is easy to predicate the consequences which may result from their enlargement. The nature and severity of the symptoms will to a certain extent be determined by the part of the organ affected. If the isthmus be enlarged, difficulty in breathing will probably be the prominent symptom; and an en- largement of the left lobe is more likely to produce a difficulty in swallowing, on account of the inclination of the oesophagus towards the left side. An instance is related by Allen Burns in which the isthmus was placed between the trachea and the oesophagus. It must be obvious that enlargement of a part so situated would occasion great difficulty in swallowing. I have seen two cases in which the lateral lobes projected so far inwards that they completely embraced the back of the oesophagus. Small absorbent glands are observed about the thyroid body, especially in front of the trachea; one is often situated over the crico-thyroid membrane. These glands, if enlarged by disease, might be mistaken for a small bronchocele. In the areolar tissue which surrounds the great Sr^cal vessels of the neck, we "meet with a series of absorbent absorbent glands, called the deep cervical. They form an unin- glands. terrupted chain (whence their name glanchdce con- catenatce), from the base of the skull, along the side of the neck, to the clavicle, beneath which they are continuous with the thoracic and the axillary glands. Some of these glands lie anterior to the common carotid artery, others, between it and the spine. This disposition explains the well-known fact, that, when these glands are enlarged, the great vessels and nerves of the neck are liable to become imbedded in their substance. The glands are particularly numerous near the division of the common carotid, by the side of the pharynx, and the posterior