SUBMAXILLARY REGION; 35- will soon be convinced of the fact, that not only large veins but large arteries occasionally cross the crico-tbyroid membrane as well as the trachea. Every winter session convinces me more and more of the necessity of cutting cautiously down to, and fairly ex- posing the air tube, before we venture to open it. When the platysma and the cervical fascia have been S'thr'^°° removed from their attachment to the jaw, the most submaxil- conspicuous object is the submaxillary gland. Observe gion.^or '^■^'^ fascia forms for it a complete case. Beiieath the digas- the jaw WO find several absorbent glands, of which some trie tri~ 1 • angle. superficial to the salivary gland, others beneath it. These glands receive the absorbents of the face, the tonsils, and the tongue. A little dissection will expose a muscle called the ' digastricus,' consisting of two distinct portions connected by a tendon. They form, with the body of the jaw, a triangle, called the ' digastric,' of which we propose to examine the contents. And first of the digastric muscle itself. T,. , . The digastricus consists of two muscular bellies Digastncus. . , , . united by an intermediate tendon. It arises from the digastric fossa of the temporal bone, and is inserted close to the symphysis of the lower jaw.. Eaise the submaxillary gland to see the intermediate tendon of the digastricus, the angle which it forms, and how it is fastened by aponeurosis to the body and greater cornu of the os-hyoides. Observe also that this aponeurosis is connected in the mesial line with its fellow of the opposite side, so that a fibrous expansion occupies the interval between the anterior portions of the digastrici. The chief action of the digastricus is to depress the lower jaw. But if the lower jaw be fixed, then the muscle raises the os-hyoides, as in deglutition. The posterior belly of the digastricus is supplied by a nerve, from the facial; the anterior belly by a branch from the mylo- hyoidean nerve (which comes from the third division of the fifth pair).