101 DISSECTION OF THE CHEST, a. InfeHor cardiac nerve.—This communicates with the re- current laryngeal, and joins the cardiac plexus beneath the arch of the aorta. b. Nerves to the blood-vessels.—These ramify around the verte- bral and subclavian arteries, DISSECTION OF THE CHEST. Before the several organs contained in the chest are examined, we ought to have some knowledge of its frame-work. The true ribs with their cartilages describe a series of arcs, increasing in length from above downwards, and form with the spine behind, and the sternum in front, a barrel of a conical shape, broader in the lateral than in the antero-posterior direction. The lower aperture or base of the cavity is closed in the recent state by the diaphragm, which forms a muscular partition between the chest and the abdomen. This partition is arched, so that it constitutes a vaulted floor for the chest, and by its capability of alternately falling and rising can increase or diminish the capaciousness of the chest. The spaces between the ribs are filled by the intercostal muscles. In each intercostal space there are two layers of these muscles, arranged like the letter X. The fibres of the outer layer run obliquely from above downwards, and forwards; those of the inner layer in the reverse direction. The upper aperture of the chest gives passage to the trachea, the oesophagus, the great vessels of the head, neck, and upper extremities, the superior intercostal, and internal mammary arteries, the inferior thyroid veins, the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and longus colli muscles, the pneumogastric, the left recurrent laryn- geal, the phrenic, and the sympathetic nerves; also to the first dorsal passing up to join the brachial plexus, the thoracic duct, and, lastly, to the apices of the lungs; the interspaces between these parts being occupied by a dense fibro-cellular tissue. Such, in outline, is the frame-work of the cavity, closed on all sides, which contains the heart and bmgs. Observe that its walls are made up of different structures, bone, cartilage, and muscle.