264 DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF THE HAND. the base of the last phalanx. Its synovial sheath is prolonged from the large bursa of the flexor tendons beneath the annular ligament, and accompanies it down to the last joint of the thumb; consequently the sheath is injured in amputation of the last phalanx. ^ ^ A large and loose synovial sac, called the bursa of the th6carp^.° carpus, facilitates the play of the tendons beneath the anterior annular ligament. It lines the under surface of the ligament and the groove of the carpus, and is reflected in loose folds over the tendons. It is prolonged up the tendons for an inch and a half, or two inches, and forms a ' cul-de-sac' above the ligament. Below the ligament the bursa extends into the palm, and sends off prolongations for each of the flexor tendons, which accompany them down to the middle of the hand. You will easily understand that, when the bursa is inflamed and distended by fluid, there will be a bulging above the annular ligament, and another in the palm, with perceptible fluctuation between them ; the unyield- ing ligament causing a constriction in the centre.* ^ ^ ■ ^ These four slender muscles, one for each finger, are attached to the deep flexor tendons in the palm. All of them arise from the radial side of the deep tendon of their corresponding finger: the third and fourth often arise from the adjacent sides of two tendons. Each terminates in a broad thin tendon which passes over the radial side of the first joint of the finger, and is inserted into the extensor tendon on the back of the finger. Their action is to bend the first joint of the fingers. Being inserted near the centre of motion, they can move the fingers with great rapidity. As they produce the quick motions of the musician's fingers, they are called by anatomists ' fidicinales.' The two inner lumbricales are supplied by the deep branch of * I have met with only one instance in which this bursa communicated with the wrist joint. It communicates always with the synovial sheath of the long flexor of the thumb, in most cases with tliat of the flexors of the little finger, and but rarely with that of the index, middle, and ring fingers. On this account inflammation of the theca of the thumb or little finger is more liable to bo attended with serious conse- quences than either of the others.