73 MUSCLES OF THE FACE. origin of this muscle is concealed by the levator labii superioris alaeque nasi. This arises from the superior maxilla, above the' Depressor second incisor tooth, and is inserted into the septum rioris or de- and ala of the nose. It is situated between the mucous pressor aire n^embrane and the muscular structure of the upper lip. To expose it, the upper lip must be everted and the mucous membrane removed. Besides the muscles above described, we find, in connection with the cartilages of the ala of the nose, pale muscular fibres, in which no definite arrangement can be traced. They constitute the ' dilatator narium anterior^ and the 'dilatator narium posterior' of some anatomists. By acting upon the cartilages of the nose, these little muscles contribute in some degree to express the con- dition of the mind. Some of them dilate the nostrils; for instance, in dyspnoea: others contract them, as in smelling. _ . , The buccinator arises from the alveolar borders of xSuccmator. the upper and lower jaws, corresponding to the molar teeth, and from the pterygo-maxillary ligament. The fibres pass forwards and are inserted into the angle of the mouth and the muscular structure of the lips; the central fibres decussate, i.e. the lower fibres pass upwards along the upper lip, and the upper fibres pass downwards along the lower lip. The buccinator is the great muscle of the cheek. It forms with the superior constrictor of the pharynx, a continuous muscular wall for the side of the mouth and pharynx. The bond of connec- tion between the buccinator and the superior constrictor, is the ' so-called' pterygo-maxillary ligament. Now this ligament (see diagram) extends from the hamular process vertically to the pos- terior extremity of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw near the last molar. To call it a ligament seems a misnomer: it is simply a fibrous intersection between the two muscles. The duct of the parotid gland passes obliquely through the buccinator into the mouth, opposite the second molar of the upper jaw. The chief use of the buccinator is to keep the food between the