165 DISSECTION or THE LARYNX. posticus and crico-arytenoideus lateralis. The apex of the cartilage is surmounted by one or two cartilaginous nodules, called ' corni- cula lain/ngis.^ This is a piece of yellow fibro-cartilage, which projects Epiglottis. ^^^^ ^j^^ larynx like a valve. It is like a leaf in shape, with its stalk directed downwards. Its ordinary position is per- pendicular, leaving the glottis free for respiration ; but during the elevation of the larynx in deglutition it becomes horizontal, falls over the glottis, and prevents the entrance of food into the larynx. Understand that this falling of the epiglottis is accomplished, not by special muscular agency, but by the simultaneous elevation of the larynx and the retraction of the tongue. Its apex or lower part is attached by the tliyro-e'piglottidean ligament to the angle of the thyroid cartilage ; it is also connected by another ligament [hyo-epiglottidean) to the os-hyoides. The cartilages of the larynx resemble those of the ribs in struc- ture. In the young they are dense and elastic, but they have a tendency to ossify with age. In very old subjects, the thyroid and cricoid cartilages are often completely ossified, and their interior presents an areolar tissue, containing oily matter, analogous to the spongy texture of the bones. The epiglottis is never ossified on account of its peculiar organisation, which resembles that of the ear and the nose. The larynx is now to be examined in its perfect condition. Mucous Except on the true vocal cords and the epiglottis, the membrane of mucous membrane of the larynx presents a wrinkled the larynx, appearance, and is loosely connected to the subjacent structures by an abundance of fibro-cellular tissue, which admits of its being pinched up into large folds. This tissue deserves notice from the rapidity with which it becomes the seat of serous effusion in acute inflammation of the larynx, and thus produces' sudden and alarming symptoms of suffocation. From the root of the tongue to the anterior surface of the epiglottis, the membrane forms three folds (glosso-epiglottidean), one median, and two lateral, containing elastic tissue. From the epiglottis it is con- tinued backwards on either side to the apices of the arytenoid