526 DISSliCTION OF TIIK BRAIN. fibrous sheath, passes through the optic forameii into the orbit, and terminates in the retina. At the commissure some of the nerve fibres cross from one side to the other. This decussation affects only the middle fibres of the nerve ; the outer fibres pass from one optic tract to the optic nerve of the same side; the inner fibres pass from one optic tract round to the optic tract of the opposite side; while in front of the commissure are fibres which pass from one optic nerve to its fellow (p. 529). The purpose of this partial crossing is not thoroughly understood. It was ingeniously supposed by Dr. Wollaston* to account for single vision, since the right halves and the left halves of the eyes would derive their nerve fibres from the same optic nerve. Third pair or '^^^ apparent origin of the third nerve is from the motores inner side of the crus cerebri, immediately in front of the pons. Some of its fibres, however, penetrate into the crus as far as the locus niger, and others to the corpora quadri- gemina, and valve of Vieussens (p. 524). It passes through the sphenoidal fissure, and supplies all the muscles of the orbit, ex- cept the superior oblique and the rectus externus. ^ . The fourth nerve arises from the upper surface of orpathe^id. valve of Vieussens (p. 519). It runs transversely outwards, winds round the crus cerebri, enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and supplies the superior oblique muscle of the eye. Pifth pair '^^^ ^^^^ nerve consists of two roots, both of which or trigeminal arise apparently from the outer side of the pons Varolii (p. 517); but their real origin is deeper. The smaller and anterior of the two roots, consisting of motor fibres only, may be traced into the pyramidal tract in the pons ; the posterior and larger, consisting of purely sensitive fibres, may be traced to the floor of the fourth ventricle, between the restiform tract and the fasciculus teres. The nerve proceeds forwards over the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone: here is developed Tipon the sensitive root the great Gasserian ganglion. This root then divides into three branches : the ophthalmic, which passes through * Philos. Trans, of the Royal Society, 1824.