SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 39 labial. It supplies the mylo-hyoideus, the anterior belly of the digastricus, and the sublingual absorbent glands. ^lylfy. Look for the mylo-hyoidean nerve near the sub- hyoidean mental artery. The nerve comes from the inferior dental (before its entrance into the dental foramen), and running along a groove on the inner side of the jaw, advances between the bone and the internal pterygoid m., to supply the mylo-hyoideus and the anterior belly of the digastricus. The submaxillary absorbent glands receive the absorbent vessels of the face and the tongue. We often see them enlarged in cancer of the tongue and cancer of the lower lip. It is worth remem- bering that there are absorbent glands in the mesial line below the chin. The mylo-hyoideus arises from the mylo-hyoid ridge hjoideus. lower jaw, as far back as the last molar tooth, and is inserted into the body of the os-hyoides. Its fibres pass obliquely downwards and forwards, the posterior only are inserted into the body of the os-hyoides, the anterior being attached to a median tendinous line, termed a 'raphe.' Thus the muscles of opposite sides form a muscular floor for the mouth. It is supplied with nerves by the mylo-hyoid branch of the dental, with blood by the submental a. The muscles of opposite sides conjointly elevate the os-hyoides and the floor of the mouth—as in deglutition. Stylo- This is simply a deep layer of the cervical fasciaj maxillary extending from the angle of the iaw to the styloid nro- ligament. t, . , , , ^ « '• cess, it IS a broad sheet of fascia, and separates the submaxillary gland from the parotid. It is continuous with the fascia covering the pharynx; this gives it a surgical interest, because it prevents accumulations of matter formed near the tonsils and upper part of the pharynx from coming to the sur- face. : The remaining objects seen in the submaxillary triangle, namely, the parotid gland, the external carotid, the hypoglossal nerve, and the hyo-glossus muscle, will be described presently when they can be better seen. Your attention should now be directed