SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. 388 pudic; also the uterine and vaginal in the female. Such is their usual order; but these branches, though constant as to their general distribution, vary as to their origin. a. The ilio-lumbar is analogous to the lumbar branches of the aorta. It ascends outwards beneath the psoas, sends branches to this muscle and tlie quadratus lumborum; then, running near the crest of the ilium, it supplies the iliacus interuus, and finally inosculates with the cicumflexa ilii (p. 354). b. The lateral sacral, usually two in number, descend pei-pen- dicularly in front of the sacral foramina, and inosculate on the coccyx with the middle sacral artery. They give branches to the pyriformis, the bladder, and rectum, and others which enter the anterior sacral foramina for the supply of the cauda equina. c. The gluta^al is the largest branch. It passes immediately out of the pelvis through the great ischiatic notch, above the pyriformis muscle, and then divides into branches for the supply of the great muscles of the buttock. These will be dissected with the thigh, cZ, The superior vesical artery comes off from the unobliterated portion of the hypogastric, and supplies the upper part of the bladder. It gives off the middle vesical artery; and a still smaller one, the deferential, which accompanies the vas deferens. The inferior vesical artery ramifies on the under surface of the bladder, the vesiculse seminales and the prostate, and gives off the middle hsemorrhoidal which supplies the rectum. e The obturator artery runs along the side of the pelvis, below the corresponding nerve, to the upper part of the obturator fora- men through which it passes to be distributed to the muscles of the thigh. In the pelvis it gives off a small branch to the iliacus internus, and another, the pubic, which ramifies on the back of the pubes. The obturator artery does not, in all subjects, take the coui-se above stated. It may arise from the external iliac near the crural arch, or by a short trunk in common with the epigastric* Under * In most subiects a small branch of the obturator ascends behind the ramus of the pubes to inosculate with the epigastric. The variety in which the obturator anses m