SUPEA-CLAVICULAR TRIANGLE. 23 comes so far forwards as almost to meet the sterno-mastoid. The depth of the vessels and nerves contained in this space depends not only upon the degree to which the clavicle arches forwards, but varies with the elevation and depression of the shoulder. Immediately beneath the skin covering this region we find the platysma myoides, the descending branches of the cervical plexus, and a layer of fascia which binds down the omo-hyoid muscle to the clavicle. Beneath this is a deeper layer of fascia, which covers the subclavian vessels and the brachial plexus of nerves, and descends with them beneath the clavicle into the axilla. Between these two layers we meet with more or less fat and areolar tissue, and absorbent glands continuous with those in the axilla. It will be easily understood how a collection of matter, originating in the axilla, may ascend in front of the vessels and point above the clavicle, or, vice versa, matter formed in the neck may travel under the clavicle and point in the axilla. Near the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle the external jugular vein passes through both layers of the fascia, and terminates in the subclavian: but before its termination it is commonly joined by the supra-scapular, the posterior scapular, and other unnamed veins proceeding from the suri-ounding muscles; so that we have in this particular situation a confluence of veins, which, when large or distended, are exceedingly em- barrassing. The fascia and the glands should be removed, and the fol- lowing objects carefully dissected. Behind and nearly parallel with the clavicle is the supra-scapular (transversalis humeri) artery, a branch of the thyroid axis. A little higher is the trans- versalis colli, or posterior scapular (commonly a branch of the thyroid axis), which crosses the lower part of the neck towards the posterior superior angle of the scapula. Both these arteries, the last ^particularly, are very irregular in respect to their origin. Search for the outer border of the scalenus anticus, which de- scends from the transverse processes of the cerebral vertebrae to the first rib: running down perpendicularly upon it is seen the phrenic nerve. The subclavian vein lies upon the first rib in front