BRANCHES OF THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS. 63 and first dorsal. The branch joining the trunk formed by the eighth cervical and first dorsal usually receives a large reinforce- ment from the conjoined fifth and sixth cervical. Thus two great trunks are formed, which lie for some distance above and to the outer side of the subclavian artery. Beneath the clavicle, a third cord is formed by the junction of a fasciculus from each of the two primary trunks, so that in the axilla there are three large cords, one external to the axillary artery, one internal to it, the third behind it.* The plexus gives off above the clavicle the following nerves:— a. A branch forming one of the roots of the phrenic arises from the fifth cervical. h. Nerve to the suhclavius m.—This proceeds from the fifth and sixth cervical, and crosses the subclavian artery in the third part of its course. It frequently sends a filament, which passes in front of the subclavian vein to join the phrenic nerve. G. Nerves to the scalene and the longus colli muscles are given off from the lower cervical nerves as they leave the intervertebral foramina. d. Nerve to the rhomboid muscles.—This arises from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves, and accompanies the posterior scapular artery, beneath the levator anguli scapulae, which, as well as the rhomboid muscles, it supplies. e. The siipra-scapular nerve arises from the cord formed by the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical n., runs to the upper border of the scapula, where it meets with the corresponding artery, and then passing through the notch in the scapula, terminates in the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus m. /. The nei^ve (called external respiratory by Sir C. Bell) to the serratus magnus arises from the fifth and sixth cervical, appears between the middle and posterior scalene muscles, then descends behind the plexus and the subclavian vessels to the outer surface of the serratus magnus, to which it is exclusively distributed. seems, from a number of dissections, to be the most frequent arrangement of the nerves forming the brachial plexus. This arrangement is, however, very variable, often differing on the two sides in the same subject.