SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 54 sixth cervical) runs so nearly parallel with the artery, and on a plane anterioi' to it, that it is quite possible to mistake the nerve for the artery, in the operation of tying it. I have heard a hospital surgeon of great experience say, that he had seen this mistake committed three times during life. Behind the artery is the scalenus medius, and below it the first rib. In this part of its course, the artery as a rule gives off no branches; the most frequent exceptions are the posterior scapular, and supra-sca- pular. The left subclavian is the last of the three great branches which arise from the arch of the aorta. It ascends nearly Left subcla- yerticallv out of the chest, and then arches in front of vian artery. ~ , i i i • the apex of the lung and pleura to reach the inner border of the scalenus anticus, behind which it runs over the first rib. In the first part of its course, the left subclavian lies deeply in the chest, near the spine. On its left side it is covered by the pleura; on its right side are the thoracic duct, the oesophagus and the trachea: the pneumogastric, phrenic, and sympathetic nerves, and the left carotid artery run nearly parallel with it: the left brachio-cephalic vein crosses in front of it. Behind it, is the longus colli muscle and the inferior cervical ganglion. Arrived at the level of the upper part of the chest, the left subclavian arches, like the right, over the apex of the lung, and has similar relations—namely, in front, it is covered by the sternal end of the clavicle, the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno- thyroid muscles, and by the internal jugular and vertebral veins: behind it, are the apex of the lung and the pleura. Behind the scalenus anticus, and on the surface of the first rib, the relations of the left subclavian are similar to those of the right (p. 52). The left subclavian, then, differs from the right only in the first part of its course. Now what are these differences ? 1. The left subclavian comes direct from the arch of the aorta, and is therefore longer, deeper in the chest, and more vertical than the right, which comes from the arteria innominata.