•^^-^ ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. * rectus,' which extends perpendicularly on each side the linea alba from the sternum to the pubes (fig. 60, p. 314). External "^^"^ muscle arises from the eight or nine lower ribs, obliq™ 3s many pointed bundles, called ' digitations: The upper five of these fit in with similar bundles of the serratus magnns, and are obvious during life; the three lower cor- respond in like manner with the origin of the latissinms dorsi; but they cannot be seen unless the body be turned on the side. The upper part of this muscle descends obliquely forwards, and ter- minates on the aponeurosis of the abdomen; the lower proceeds almost perpendicularly from the last ribs, and is inserted-mio the outer lip of the anterior two-thirds of the crest of the ilium.* The aponeicrosis of the external oblique increases in strength, breadth, and thickness, as it approaches the lower margin of the abdomen, this being the situation where the greater pressure of the viscera requires the most effective support. Its tendinous fibres take the same direction as the muscle, and form the ' linea alba' by their decussation in the middle line from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes. Poupart's Along the line of junction of the abdomen with the ligament or thigh, the aponeurosis extends from the anterior spine crural arch. ilium to the spine of the pubes, and forms an arch over the intermediate bony excavation (p. 317). This, which is termed the crural arch, or, more commonly, Poupart's liga- ment,1f transmits the great vessels of the thigh, with muscles and nerves. Near the pubes is an opening in the aponeurosis for the passage of the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. It is called the ' external abdominal ring.'' Of this, as well as of the crural arch, you must postpone the more particular examination till the dissection of the parts concerned in inguinal hernia. The external oblique should be carefully detached * From its position and the direction of its fibres, it is manifest that the external oblique represents, in the abdomen, the external intercostal muscles of tlie chest. t This was first described by Fallopius, an Italian anatomist, in his ' Observationes Anatomicse,' published in 1561. It was subsequently described by Poupart in 1705, in the 'Mem. de I'Acad. de Pari;,' and is now commonly called 'Poupart's ligament.'