SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. 390 winter session without meeting witli one or two examples of them. It need hardly be said that lithotomy, under such conditions, might be followed by fatal haemorrhage. h. The middle sacral artery is a very diminutive prolongation of the aorta down to the coccyx. It becomes gradually smaller as it descends, and finally inosculates with the lateral sacral arteries. In animals this is the artery of the tail. Eespecting the veins in the pelvis, they correspond with the arteries, and empty themselves into the internal iliac vein. The remarkable plexus of veins about the prostate, neck of the bladder, and rectum, has been described (p. 379). Nerves op Those which proceed from the spinal cord should be THE PELVIS, examined first, afterwards those derived from the sym- pathetic system. Sacral nerves ^'^"^^ sdicx^l nerves proceed from the spinal cord and plexus, through the sacral foramina. The upper four, from their large size, at once attract observation ; but the fifth is small, perforates the coccygeus muscle, supplying it and the skin over the coccyx. The coccygeal nerve is not easily found: it communicates with the fifth sacral nerve, and supplies the same parts as that nerve; namely, the coccygeus and the skin over the coccyx. The three upper sacral nerves, and part of the fourth, with the lumbo-sacral cord, form the sacral plexus. The great nerves of the plexus lie on the pyriformis muscle, beneath the branches of the internal iliac artery, and coalesce to form the great ischiatic nerve, which passes out at the back of the pelvis, for the supply of the flexor muscles of the inferior extremity. The other branches of the plexus are as follow :— a. Muscular branches distribiited to the levator ani, the coccy- geus, the cutaneous sphincter of the anus, the pyriformis, gemelli, quadratus femoris, and obturator internus. The nerve to the last- named muscle (sometimes derived from the pudic) leaves the pelvis with the pudic artery, and re-enters with it to reach the muscle. b. The superior glutceal nerve proceeds from the lumbo-sacral,