BACK OF THE THIGH. 484 Fig. 107. that a bursa intervenes between them; 2, that it sends a strong prolongation upwards and outwards to the external condyle of the femur, forming the principal constituent of the * licjamentum posticum Winslowiii which covers the back of the knee-joint; 3, that a fascia proceeds from its lower border, and binds down the popliteus. Its nerve comes from the ischiatic. A large bursa is almost invariably found between the semi- membranosus and the inner head of the gastrocnemius, where they rub one against the other. It is generally from one and a half to two inches long. The chief point of interest concerning it is, that it occasionally communicates with the synovial membrane of the knee-joint, not directly, but through the medium of another bursa beneath the inner head of the gastrocnemius. From an examination of 150 bodies, I infer that this communication exists about once in five instances; and it need scarcely be said that the proportion is large enough to make us cautious in interfering too roughly with this bursa when it becomes enlarged.* These muscles produce two Action of the ^ hamstring different effects, according as muscles. ^j^^^, ^^g^j point is at the pelvis or the knee. With the fixed point at the pelvis, they bend the knee; with the fixed point at the knee, they form a very im- portant part of the machinery which keeps the body erect. For instance, if, when standing, you bend the body at the hip and feel the muscles in question, you find that they are in strong action, to prevent » When the hursa in question becomes enlarged, it occasions a fluctuating swelling of ei-eater or less dimensions on the inner side of the popliteal space. The sweUing bulges out and becomes tense and elastic when the knee is extended, and vice vcrsA. As to its shape, it is generally oblong ; but this is subject to variety, for we know that the bursae, when enlarged, are apt to become multilocular, and to burrow between the muscles where there is the least resistance.