435 STRUCTUKE OF THE SMALL INTESTINES. There are four kinds of glands * in the small intes- glands"'''^ tine, called, tlie glands of Lieberkiihn, Brunn, Peyer, and the solitary glands. The first and last are distri- buted over the whole tract of the intestinal mucous membrane; the other two over particular parts. The glands of Lieberkuhn f are minnte tuhes with blind ends, very thickly distributed over the small and the large intestines. Under the microscope, their orifices are seen between the villi, like so many minute dots. These vary in depth from gL-th to -JLth of a line, and are lined with columnar epithelium. The glands of BrunnX are found only in the duodenum. They are just visible to the naked eye, and may be seen by removing the muscular coat. Their structure exactly resembles the pan- creas on a diminutive scale. The glands of Peyer % (glandulse agminatas) abound most in the ileum, and are seen most distinctly in children. They are arranged in groups, from twenty to forty in number, on that part of the intestine most distant from the attachment of the mesentery. These groups are from half an inch to three inches long, of an oval form, and increase in size and number towards the lower part of the ileum. If a group be examined by dissecting away the muscular coat, you find that it is composed of a number of small oval vesicles, like Florence flasks, imbedded in the sub- mucous tissue. They are about three-fourths of a line in diameter, and contain an opaque greyish fluid. No excretory ducts have been traced from these vesicles, but they are supposed to discharge their contents by rupture of their capsules. Between the vesicles are found Lieberkiihn's follicles; and the surface of the patches is covered with villi. These glands are liable to be ulcerated in typhoid fever. * A satisfactory examination of the intestinal glands can be made only in specimens fatal dkelse ^""""^ ^''^^ ^'^^ suddenly, or from a rapidly t J. K Lieberkiihn, Diss, de fabric, et actione viUonim intestin. temiiiun, 1782 I J. U iJrunn, Gland, duoden. seu pancreas secundarium, 1715 ยง Peyeis De glandulis intestinomm, 1682. These glands were first described by JNehemia Grew, in 1681.