SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 42 The genio-hyo-glossus ansea by a tendon from the Gcnio-hyo- ^ipper tiibercle behind the symphysis of the lower jaw, glossus. and is inserted into the os-hyoides and the tongue from the base to the apex. It is the largest and most important of the muscles of the tongue. It is fan-shaped, with the apex- attached to the symphysis: thence its fibres radiate into the entire length of the tongue. It derives its nerves from the hypoglossal, and its blood from the lingual artery. Its action is various. The posterior fibres, by raising the os-hyoides and drawing forwards the base of the tongue, protrude the tongue out of the mouth ; the anterior draw the tongue back again. When every part of the muscle acts, it draws down the whole tongue, and is therefore one of the chief muscles concerned in suction. The stylo-glossus, a long and slender muscle, arises glossus from the apex of the styloid process and the stylo- maxillary ligament, and is inserted along the side of the tongue. It runs outside the hyo-glossus nearly to the tip of the tongue. Its nerve comes from the hypoglossal. Its action is to retract the tongue. -g-yp^ The hypoglossal, or ninth cerebral nerve, is the motor glossal nerve of the muscles of the tongue. It arises (by nerve. several roots) from the front of the medulla oblongata between the pyramid and the olive. After leaving the skull through the anterior condyloid foramen, it lies beneath the internal jugular vein and internal carotid artery, where it is intimately connected with the pneumogastric nerve; it then comes up between the artery and vein, and, immediately below the posterior belly of the digastricus, curves forwards round the occipital, over both carotid and facial arteries. It then crosses the hyo-glossus muscle, and passing beneath the mylo-hyoid, divides into branches which supply all the muscles of the tongue; nameh', the stylo- glossus, hyo-glossus, genio-hyo-glossLis, liugualis, and the genio- hyoideus. As it curves round the occipital artery, the h3fpoglossal nerve sends the ' descendens noni' to the depressors of the os-hyoides (p. 25). It also sends a nerve to the thyro-hyoideusi which proceeds from it where it crosses over the external carotid.