ABDOMIN AL MUSCLES, 3] 3 •from the ribs and the crest of the ilium, and turned forwards as far as this can be done without injuring its aponeurosis or the crural arch. The second muscular stratum will thus be exposed, and recognised by the difference in the direction of its fibres which pass upwards and inwards. This muscle arises from the outer half of the crural Sifqm^ ^^'^^ anterior two-thirds of the middle lip of the crest of the ilium, and from the fascia lumborum. The fibres ascend obliquely, and are inserted partly into the abdominal aponeurosis, partly into the cartilages of the three or four lower ribs.* The internal oblique should be detached from the ribs, and from the crest of the ilium, and turned forwards; but that portion of it connected to the crural arch must not be disturbed. In removing- the internal oblique, we are apt to cut away the transversalis. To avoid this mistake, dissect near the crest of the ilium, and endeavour to find an artery which runs between the muscles, and serves as a gaide. This artery, called the deep ' circumflexa ilii; proceeds from the external iliac, and supplies the abdominal muscles. Be- neath the internal oblique the continuations of the intercostal nerves and vessels are brought into view. These must be preserved. Transversalis. ^^^^ ^^^de arises from the outer third of the crural arch, from the anterior two-thirds of the crest of the ilium, from a fascia attached to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and, lastly, from the inner surfaces of the six or seven lower costal cartilages, by digitations which correspond with those of the diaphragm. From this origin the fibres proceed hori- zontally forwards, and terminate in the abdominal aponeurosis. Some of Its fibres arch downwards, and are attached conjointly with fibres of the internal oblique into the pubes. Eectus. T^'^ muscle lies perpendicularly along the front of the abdomen, and is enclosed in a sheath formed by the aponeuroses of the lateral muscles of the abdomen. To expose it therefore, slit up its sheath along the middle, and reflect the two' of *thfche"r°''^ represents in the abdomen the internal intercostal nn,scles