156 SOFT PALATE. delicate in its texture, and lined by ciliated epithelium like the rest of the air-passages. But opposite the fauces, the mucous membrane in every respect resembles that of the mouth, and is provided with squamous epithelium. At the back of the larynx the membrane is corrugated into folds, to allow the expansion of the pharynx during the passage of the food. The membrane is lubricated by a plentiful secretion from the numerous mucous glands which are situated in the submucous tissue throughout the whole extent of the pharynx, more particularly in the neighbourhood of the Eustachian tubes. Posterior These are two oval openings, each of which is about openings of an inch long, and half an inch in the short diameter, tlie nose. ^''hey are bounded above by the body of the sphenoid bone, externally by its pterygoid plate, below by the horizontal portion of the palate bone ; they are separated from each other by the vomer. If you remove the mucous membrane from the posterior part of the roof of the nose, and the top of the pharynx,you will find beneath it much fibrous tissue. Hence polypi growing from these parts are generally of a fibrous nature. This name is given to the opening by which the Isthmus mouth communicates with the pharynx. It is bounded, fancium. i i i i <• above by the soft palate and uvula, below by the root ot the tongue, and on either side by the arches of the palate, enclosing the tonsils between them. This movable prolongation of the roof of the mouth Soft palate. attached to the posterior border of the hard palate. Inferiorly it is free, and from the middle hangs a pointed process called the ' uvula.' It constitutes an imperfect partition between the mouth and the posterior nares. Its upper or nasal surface is convex and continuous with the floor of the nose ; its lower surface is concave, in adaptation to the back of the tongue, and is marked in the middle by a ridge, indicating its original formation by tv,-o lateral halves. When the soft palate is at rest, it hangs obliquely downwards and backwards; but in swallowing, it is raised to the horizontal position by the levatores palati, comes into apposition