81 NEEVES 01<^ THE FACE. the zygomatici over the masseter, and supply the elevators of the upper lip and the muscles of the nose. Beneath the levator labii superioris we find a free communication with the infra-orbital branches of the superior maxillary nerve (second division of the fifth). The cervico-facial division, joined by filaments from the auriculo-parotidean (branch of cervical plexus), descends towards the angle of the jaw, and subdivides into buccal, supra- and infra- maxillary branches. The buccal branches pass forwards over the masseter parallel with the parotid duct, and supply the buccinator: they communi- cate with the buccal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve (second division of the fifth). The supra-maxillary branches advance over the masseter and facial artery, and run under the depressor muscles of the lower lip, all of which they supply. Some of the filaments communicate with the mental branch of the dental nerve. The infra-maxillary or cervical branches, one or more in number, were dissected with the neck (p. 17). They arch for- wards below the jaw, covered by the platysma, and communicate with the superficialis colli (branch of the cervical plexus). Eespecting the function of the facial nerve, it is necessary to remember that though at its origin it is purely a motor nerve, yet after leaving the stylo-mastoid foramen it becomes a compound nerve, in consequence of the filaments which it receives from the temporo-auricular branch of the fifth, and from the auriculo-paro- tidean branch of the cervical plexus. These communications ex- plain the pain which is often felt in facial paralysis along the track of the facial nerves. Sensitive ^^^^^ ^^^^ supra-orbital, the infra-orbital, and the nerves of mental, all branches of the fifth pair. The supra-orbital nerve is a branch of the first divi- sion of the fifth pair. It leaves the orbit through the supra- orbital notch, and is at first covered by the orbicularis and occipito- Irontalis. But it presently divides into wide-spreading branches.