MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 205 reflect it to see the 'arteria cervicalis profunda' (p. 60), and the posterior branches of the cervical nerves. Transrerso "^^^^ muscle which ]ies in the vertebral spinalis. groove after the reflection of the complexus and the erector spinse. It consists of a series of fibres which extend from the transverse and articular processes to the spinous processes of the dorsal and cervical vertebrje, and is usually divided into the ' semispinalis dorsi' and ' semispinalis colli: a. The semispinalis dorsi arises from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebra, from the sixth to the tenth, and is inserted into the spines of the four upper dorsal and the two or three lower cervical vertebrae. 6. The semispinalis colli arises from the transverse processes of the five or six upper dorsal vertebrae, and the articular processes of the four lower cervical, and is inserted into the spines of the axis and the three or four succeeding vertebra. Now reflect part of the semispinalis dorsi in order to expose the 'multifidus spince: This may be considered a part of the pre- ceding muscle, since its fixed points and the direction of its fibres are the same. It consists of a series of little muscles which extend between the spmes and transverse processes of the vertebra from the sacrum to the second cervical vertebra. Those in the lumbar region are the largest. They aHse by tendinous slips from the transverse processes in the sacral and dorsal region, and from the articular processes in the lumbar and cervical re-^ion. They all a^scend obliquely, and are inserted into the spines and lamina of all the vertebra excepting the atlas. It should be observed that their fibres are not of uniform length ; some extend only from vertebra to vertebra, while others extend between one, two, or even three vertebrae.* The action of these oblique muscles' is not only to assist in * Beneath the multifidus spinas we find, in the dorsal region of the spine onlv eleven httle flat nxnscles, called by Theile (Miiller's Archives f Anat. &c , ?839) w£ Ibove S "°'^77-^f''^to the lower border of the lamina of the vertebra above. These muscles form but a part of the multifidus spin«.