248 DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOUEARjf. the flexor sublimis digitorum; it then passes over the anterior annular ligament, and is continued into the palmar fascia. This muscle is a tensor of the palmar fascia.* This muscle arises by two heads; one from the ulnaru!'^^^' internal condyle, the common tendon, and the inter- muscular septum; the other from the inner edge of the olecranon: these two origins form an arch under which the ulnar nerve passes. It also arises from the upper two-thirds of the posterior edge of the ulna, through the medium of the aponeu- rosis, which is common to this muscle and the flexor profundus digitorum. The tendon appears on the radial side of the muscle, about the lower third of the forearm, and receives fleshy fibres on its ulnar side as low as the wrist. It is inserted into the os pisi- •forme, and thence by a strong tendon into the os unciforme and the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. The tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris is the guide to the ulnar artery, which lies close to its radial side, and is overlapped by it. As it passes over the annular ligament, the tendon furnishes a fibrous expansion to protect the ulnar artery and nerve. ^ This muscle is situated beneath those previously men- Flexor . . . m, 1 sublimis digi- tioned, and has two distmct ongms. 1 he longer ongm takes place from the internal condyle, from the internal lateral ligament, the common tendon, the intermuscular septa, and the coronoid process of the ulna ; the shorter origin takes place by tendinous and fleshy fibres from an oblique ridge on the front of the radius, extending to about an inch below the insertion of the pronator teres. This, called its radial origin, is partly con- cealed by the pronator teres. The muscle thus formed passes down the middle of the forearm, and divides into four distinct muscular slips : from these, four tendons arise, which pass beneath the annu- lar ligament into the palm, and on to the fingers, where they split to allow the passage of the deep flexor tendons, and are inserted * The palmaris longus is sometimes absent. The situation of its muscular portion is subject to variety ; sometimes occupjiug the middle, sometimes the lower third of the forearm. The tendon is in some instances wholly inserted into the anterior annular ligament.