DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 5G6 wlien viewed from without, the rods have the appearance of mosaic pavement.* Among the rods are intermingled numerous flask- shaped bodies, called cones: their outer extremities taper off towards the choroid, with which they are in contact, their inner broad ends join the fibres of Miiller. The rods are absent in the macula lutea. The granular layer consists of two horizontal collections of oval cells, separated by a variable amount of granular material. The nervous layer is composed of the terminations of the optic nerve fibres, and of branched nerve cells. The fibres of the optic nerve, consisting only of the axis cylinders, run forwards as a con- tin\ious layer, and terminate in the nerve cells. The fibres are absent on the yellow spot.f The vascular layer is formed by the ramifications of the ar- teria centralis retinse, which form a close network of blood vessels throughout the nervous substance for its nutrition. After a short maceration in water, the nervous substance can be brushed off with a camel's hair brush, and then, in an injected eye, the net- work formed by the vessels can be distinctly seen. The larger branches, however, are visible without injection; one of them runs round the free margin of the retina. The retina is separated from the vitreous humour by a perfectly transparent membrane, the memhrana limitans. At the yellow spot the retina has no rods, and over the fovea centralis it is desti- tute of the granular layer and the nerve fibres. The aqu.eous humour consists of a few drops of alka- Aqueous ^lear watery fluid, which fills up the space between humour. ^^^^^^ crystalline lens. The iris floats freely in it, and divides the space into two chambers of unequal size— an anterior and a posterior. The posterior is miich the smaUer of the two : indeed, the iris is so close to the lens that they are sepa- rated by a mere film of fluid. This accounts for the frequent * See Hannover, Eeclierches Microscop. sur le Systfeme ncrveux, 1844. t H Muller has described a number of radiating fibrc.i, which are connected ex- - tcrnally with the rods and cones, and after passing through the whole thickness of the retina, end in triangular expansions which rest on the mombrana liraitans.