SPHENO-MAXILLAltY REGION. 87 all its movements. M'ben the jaw is dislocated, it is chiefly by the action of this muscle, which pulls the condyle into the zygo- matic fossa; the inter-articular cartilage being dislocated with the condyle. This muscle arises from the inner surface of the ex- pterygoid. temal pterygoid plate, and tuberosity of the palate ■ bone. It is inserted into the inner side of the angle of the jaw. Notice particularly the direction of the fibres of the pterygoid muscles. The fibres of the external run horizontally outwards and backwards from their origin; the fibres of the internal run downwards, backwards, and outwards from their origin. In structure, these muscles are similar to the masseter; that is, they are intersected by tendinous septa for the purpose of giving origin to muscular fibres. The action of the pterygoid muscles is to produce the lateral movements of the jaw essential to the mastication of the food. Consequently they are enormously developed in all ruminants, and comparatively feebly in carnivorous animals. Cut through the neck of the jaw, and disarticulate the condyle with its fibro-cartilage from the glenoid cavity, and turn it forwards with the external pterygoid, so that the condyle can be replaced if desirable. A little dissection will bring into view the internal lateral ligament, and the internal maxillary artery. Internal "^^^^ ^"^^ terminal branches into which the maxillary external carotid divides opposite the neck of the jaw. •iitery. passes horizontally forwards between the neck of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament, then runs tortuously, in some cases above, in others beneath the external pterygoid, enters the spheno-maxillary fossa between the two heads of the external pterygoid, and terminates by dividing into several branches. The course of this artery is divided into three stages. In the first, the artery lies between the neck of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament; in the second, it lies either over or under the external pterygoid ; in the third, it lies in the spheno-maxillary fossa.