ORIGIN OF THE CEREBRAL NERVES. 5-21 the sphenoidal fissure; the sujperior maxillary, which passes through the foramen rotundum; the inferior maxillary, which passes through the foramen ovale. They all confer common sensibihty upon the parts they supply, which comprise nearly the entire head. The small motor root passes beneath the ganglion, with which it has no connection, and accompanies the inferior maxillary division, to be distributed to the miiscles of mastication. ^, . The sixth nerve emerges from the groove between the bixtn pair or i abducentes. pons and the medulla (p. 517), with both of which it 13 connected. Its deep origin has been traced to the floor of the fourth ventricle. It leaves the skull through the sphenoidal fissure, and supplies the rectus externus of the eye. The seventh consists of two nerves, the portio dura, Seventh pair. jQ^scular nerve of the face, and the ^ortio mo^^is, or proper auditory nerve. The two nerves, of which the portio dura is the more internal, arise apparently from the lower part of the pons Varolii (p. 517). The deep origin of the portio dura is stated to come from the restiform and olivary fasciculi of the me- dulla. The real origin of the portio mollis is from the floor of the fourth ventricle by several transverse white filaments, which emerge from the median groove. The seventh pair enters the meatus auditorius internus, where they are connected by several filaments. For the further description of the j)ortio dura, see p. 194. The auditory nerve divides at the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus into cochlear and vestibular branches which are distributed to the internal ear. Eighth pair ""^^^^^ Comprises three nerves, the glosso-pharyngeal, thepneumogastric, and the nervus accessorius (p. 517). The first two arise by several filaments from the restiform tract of the medulla close to the olive, through which their fibres may be traced to the grey matter in the floor of the fourth ventricle. The nervus accessorius is composed of two parts, an upper or accessory portion, which arises from the side of the medulla oblongata, and a lower or spinal portion, which arises by a series of slender filaments from the lateral tract of the spinal cord as low down as the fifth or sixth cervical vertebra. The spinal portion ascends^