FRONT OF THE LEG. 467 External '^^^^ ^ branch of the peroneal nerve : it comes cutaneous or through the fascia about the lower third of the outer J^nSui°nerve. ^^^^ '^^' '^"^ descending over the front of the ankle, divides into two branches. Trace its subdivi- sions, and you will find the inner one supplies the inner side of the great toe, and the contiguous sides of the second and third toes; the outer one distributes branches to the outer side of the third toe, both sides of the fourth, and the inner side of the fifth toe. The outside of the little toe is supplied by the external saphe- nous nerve, which runs behind the outer ankle with the correspond- ing vein. The contiguous sides of the great and second toes are supplied by the termination of the anterior tibial nerve.* Mu.scular ^his is remarkably thick and strong. Besides its fascia and general purpose of forming sheaths for the muscles, ligaments. ^'^'^ Straps for the tendons, it gives origin, as in the forearm, to muscular fibres; so that it cannot be re- moved near the knee, without leaving the muscles ragged. The fascia is attached to the head of the tibia and the fibula : it is identified on the inner side with the expanded tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semi-tendinosus ; on the outer side with that of the biceps: consequently, when these muscles act, it is rendered tense. Following it down the leg, you find that it is attached to the edge of the tibia, and that it becomes stronger as it approaches the ankle, to form the ligaments which confine the tendons in this situation. Of these ligaments, called ' annular; there are three, as follow :— ^ a. The anterior extends obliquely across the front of the ankle- joint, and confines the extensor tendons of the ankle and toes. It consists of two straps, which cross each other over the front of the ankle like braces. One brace goes from the malleolus externus to the scaphoid and internal cuneiform bones; the other runs from the cuboid and os calcis upwards and inwards to the inner border * Such is the most common distribution of the nerves to the upper surface of the toes. But deviations from this arrangement are frequent. H H 2