CALF OF THE LEG. 485 the trunk from falling forwards: they, too, are the chief agents concerned in bringing the body back again to the erect position. In doing this, they act upon a lever of the first order, as shown in fig. 107; the acetabulum being the fulcrum F, the trunk w, the weight to be moved, and the power p, at the tuber ischii. To put the action of the muscles of the thigh on the pelvis in the clearest point of view, let us suppose we are standing upon one leg: the bones of the lower extremity represent a pillar which sup- ports the weight of the trunk on a ball-and-sccket joint; the weight is nicely balanced on all sides, and prevented from falling by four groups of muscles. In front, are the rectus and sartorius; on the inner side, the adductors ; on the outer side, the glutseus medius and minimus; behind, the hamstrings and glutseus maximus. The semimembranosus can also rotate the knee inwards, thus assisting the popliteus. The hamstring muscles are supplied with blood by the perfor- ating branches of the profunda, which cume through the tendon, of the adductor magnus close to the femur. Their nerves are derived from the great ischiatic. Ischiatic "^^^^ ^^^^^ descends from the buttock upon the ad- nerve^ '° ductor magnus, and, after being crossed by the long head of the biceps, runs along the outer border of the semimembranosus down the popliteal space.' The further course of this nerve has already been described (p. 480). Deferring the course, relations, and branches of the popliteal artery till this vessel is exposed throughout its whole course, pass on now to the dissection of the calf. Continiie the incision down the centre of the calf to the heel and reflect the skin. ' External or The large vein seen on the back of the leo- is called the pSa vein" ' '^^'"^'"'^^ posterior saphena: It commences on the outer side of the foot, runs behind the outer ankle, and then up the calf, receiving numerous veins in its course. It eventu- ally passes through the muscular fascia, and joins the popliteal vein. The chief cutaneous nerve of the calf is the external or posterior