366 MALE PERINEUM. the pubes and ischium; traced forwards, it is directly continuous with the tunica dartos of the scrotum; traced backwards, we find that at the base of the urethral triangle it is reflected beneath the transversus perinei muscle, and joins the ^ deep perineal fascia' or * triangular ligament' These connections explain the reason why urine efifused into the perineum, does not make its way into the ischio-rectal fossae, or down the thighs. Remove the fascia to see the muscles which cover the bulb of the urethra and the crura of the penis. The bulb of the urethra lies in the middle of the perineum, and is covered by a strong muscle, called ' accelerator urinse.' The crura penis are attached, one to each side of the pubic arch, and are covered each by a muscle, called ' erector penis,' A narrow slip of muscle, called ' transversus perinei,' extends on either side from the tuber ischii to the central tendinous point of the perineum. This point is aboxit one inch and a quarter in front of the anus, and serves for the attachment of muscular fibres from all quarters of the peri- neum. Thus the muscles of the perineum describe on each side a triangle, of which the sides are formed by the accelerator urinae and the crus penis respectively, and the base by the transversus perinei. Across this triangle run up from base to apex the super- ficial perineal vessels and nerves. External to the ramus of the ischium is seen a nerve, the long pudendal, a branch of the lesser ischiatic, perforating the muscular fascia of the thigh. The superficial perineal artery proceeds from the peJinfar^ internal pudic as it runs up the inner side of the tuber vessels and jgcijii^ Though the main trunk cannot be seen, it can nerves. ^^^.^^ ^^^^ pressing the finger against the bone. The artery comes into view a little above the level of the anus, and then passes up the perineal triangle, distributing branches to all the muscles, and is finally lost on the scrotum. The only named branch is a muscular one, called ' transversalis -perinei' (p. 367). This is given off near the base of the triangle, and runs with the transversus perinei muscle towards the central point of the perineum. It is necessarily divided in the first incision in