DISSECTION OF THE CHEST. 103 side the internal mammary artery should be removed ; on the other, left. On the lander surface of the sternum and cartilages of Triangularis the ribs is a muscle, named the 'triangularis sterni.' sterm. arises from the ensiform cartilage and the lower part of the sternum, and is inserted by digitations into the carti- lages of the true ribs from the sixth to the second: its fibres ascend outwards to their insertion; its action is to depress the costal cartilages. Thus, on emergency, it acts in expiration. Its nerve comes from the intercostal nerves, its arteries from the internal mammary. This artery springs from the subcla\dan in the first Internal 7x • i i • • mammary part of its course. On entermg the chest it is crossed artery. ^t^^ phrenic nerve. It then descends perpendicularly, about half an inch from the sternum, between the cartilages of the ribs and the triangularis sterni: it then enters the wall of the abdomen behind the rectus abdominis, and finally inosculates with the epigastric (a branch of the external iliac). Its branches are as follow :— a. Arteria comes nervi phrenici.—A very slender artery, which accom.panies the phrenic nerve to the diaphragm, and anastomoses with the phrenic branches of the abdominal aorta. h. Mediastinal and thymic.—These branches supply the cellular tissue of the anterior mediastinum, the pericardium, and the tri- angularis sterni. The thymic are only visible in childhood, and disappear with the thymus gland. c. Anterior intercostal.—One, and often two, for each inter- costal space are distributed to the five or six upper intercostal spaces. They lie at first between the pleura and the internal intercostal muscle, and subsequently between the two iatercostals. They inosculate with the intercostal arteries from the aorta. ' d. Perforating arteries, which pass through the same number of intercostal spaces as the preceding branches, and supply the pectoral muscle and skin of the chest. In the female they are of large size, for the supply of the mammary gland. e. The intercosto-phi'enic branch runs outwards behind the