154 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. side a free semikuiar edge with its concavity upwards, so that between it and the base of the skull a space is left in which the muscle is deficient (fig. 32). Here the pharynx is strengthened and walled in by its own aponeurosis. The space is called the ' sinus of Morgagni;' and in it, with a little dissection, we expose the muscles which raise and tighten the soft palate : i.e. the levator palati, and the tensor palati. The Eustachian tube opens into the pharynx just here. Observe that the fibres of the stylo-pharyngeus pass in between the superior and middle constrictors, and expand upon the side of the pharynx ; some of them mingle with those of the constrictors, but most of them are inserted into the posterior margin of the thyroid cartilage. Pharyngeal "^^^ pharyngeal aponeurosis intervenes between the membrane or muscles and the mucous membrane of the pharynx. It aponeurosis. attached to the basilar process of the occipital bone, and to the points of the petrous portions of the temporal bones. It maintains the strength and integrity of the pharynx at its iipper part, where the muscular fibres are deficient; but it gradually diminishes in thickness as it descends, and is finally lost on the oesophagus. Notice the number of mucous glands upon this aponeurosis, especially near the base of the skull and the Eustachian tube. These glands sometimes enlarge and occasion deafness from pressure on the tube. Openings Open the pharynx by a longitudinal incision, and into the observe the seven openings leading into it (fig. 33) :— pharynx. rpj^^ posterior openings of the nares. 2. On either side of them, near the lower turbinated bones, are the openings of the Eustachian tubes : below the nares is the soft palate, with the uvula. 3. Below the soft palate is the communi- cation with the mouth, called the ' isthmus faucium.' On either side of this are two folds of mucous membrane, constituting the anterior and posterior half-arches of the palate ; between them are the tonsils. Below the isthmus faucium is the epiglottis, which is connected to the base of the tongue by three folds of mucous membrane. 4. Below the epiglottis is the aperture of the larynx. 5. Lastly, is the opening into the oesophagus.