382 SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. better can the prostate be felt. These several relations are practi- cally important. Tliey explain why, with the finger in the rectum, we can ascertain whether the catheter is taking the right direction, —whether the prostate be enlarged or not. We might even raise a stone from the bottom of the bladder so as to bring it in contact with the forceps. The rectum is supplied with blood by the superior, middle, and inferior hiemorrhoidal arteries. The superior come from the inferior mesenteric (p. 341); the middle and in- ferior from the pudic artery. The superior and middle haemor- rhoidal veins join the inferior mesenteric, and consequently the portal system; the inferior haemorrhoidal veins join the internal pudic. They are very large and form a very tortuous plexiis about the lower part of the rectum. Having no valves, they are Uable to become dilated and congested from various internal causes; hence the frequency of haemorrhoidal affections. This viscus, being a receptacle for the urine, must Bladder. necessarily vary in size, and accordingly the nature of its connections and coats are such as to permit this variation. When contracted, the bladder sinks into the pelvis behind the pubic arch, and is completely protected from injury. But, as it gradually distends, it rises out of the pelvis into the abdomen, and, in cases of extreme distention, may reach nearly up to the umbilicus.* Its outline can then be easily felt through the walls of the abdomen. The form t of the distended bladder is oval, and its long axis, if produced, would pass superiorly through the umbiHcus, and inferiorly through the end of the coccyx. The * When the bladder is completely paralysed it hecomes like an inorganic sac^^d there seems to be no limit to its distention. Haller found m a drunkard the bladder 0 dilated that it wovM hold twenty pints of water. (Elem. ^y^^^'.J^^;l Frank saw a bladder so distended as to resemble asc tes, and evacuated f«,mit twelve tiounds of urine. (Oratio de Signis morborum, &c. &c. Ticmi 1788.) ^ W Hunter, in his Anatomy of the Gravid Uterus, has given the representation of a bladder distended nearly as high as the ensiform cartilage. , , • „ t In all animals with a bladder, the younger the a.imal the more elongated- the bladder This is indicative of its original derivation from a tube, i.e. ihe urachu.. Li ielnfant, the bladder is of a pyriform shape, as it is. permanently, in the quad- nJped but as we assume more and more the perpendicular attitude, the weight of the urine gradually makes the lower part more capacious.