ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 421 The ovarian veins terminate, like the spermatic in the male ; the right in the vena cava, the left in the renal. DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMINAL VISCEEA. The liver. '^^^ -"^^^^ largest gland in the body, and in the adult weighs from three to four pounds. Its surface is entirely covered by peritoneum, except a small part behind, which is connected to the diaphragm by cellular tissue, and in the hollow for the gall-bladder : behind, the liver is thick and round, but towards the front it gradually slopes to a thin border. The upper surface of the liver is smooth and convex, in adaptation to the diaphragm, and is marked by a white line which indicates its division into a right and left lobe, the right being the larger. The under surface is irregular and marked by five fissures and five Fissures. ^^^^^ longitudinal fissure, which divides the right from the left lobe, contains the round ligament (the remains of the umbilical vein). 2. The continuation of the longitudinal fissure to the posterior border of the liver, contains the remains of what was, in the foetus, the ductus venosus, and is therefore called the 'fissure of the ductus venosus: 's. The hollow or 'fissure for the gall-bladder: In the same line with this is, 4, the 'fissure of the inferior vena cava; which passes obliquely inwards towards the posterior border of the liver. 5 The 'transverse fissure' unites the other fissures, and transmits the great vessels which enter the liver in the following order: in front is the hepatic duct, behind is the vena porta, and between them the hepatic artery. The relative position of these fissures may be best impressed on the memory by comparing them col- lectively to the letter H. The transverse fissure represents the cross-bar of the letter; the longitudinal fissure and the fissure of the ductus venosus represent the left bar ; the fissures of the gall- bladder and vena cava make the right bar. Lobes. ^^bes of the liver, five in number, are also seen .1, zT.'^" '^'^ht lobe, much larger than the left, is separated from it by the longitudinal fissure. On