SHOULDER-JOINT. 297 The articular surface of the head of the humerus, Shocldee- forming rather more than one-third of a sphere, moves JOINT. ° . ^ ' upon the shallow glenoid cavity of the scapula, which is of an oval form, with the broader end downwards, and the lon^y diameter nearly vertical. The security of the joint depends, not upon any mechanical contrivance of the bones, but upon the great strength and number of the tendons which surround it. To admit the free motion of the head of the humerus upon the glenoid cavity, it is requisite that the cajpsular ligament of the joint be loose and capacious. Accordingly, the head of the bone, when detached from its muscular connections, may be separated from the glenoid cavity to the extent of an inch, or more, without laceration of the capsule. This explains the elongation of the arm observed in some cases in which effusion takes place into the joint; also in cases of paralysis of the deltoid. The capsular ligament is attached above, round the circum- ference of the glenoid cavity; and below, round the anatomical neck of the humerus. It is strengthened on its upper and pos- terior part by the tendons of the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, and teres minor ; its inner part is strengthened by the broad tendon of the subscapularis, its lower part by the long head of the triceps. Thus the circumference of the capsule is surrounded by tendons on every side, excepting a small space towards the axilla. If the humerus be raised, it will be found that the head of the bone rests upon this unprotected portion of the capsule between the tendons of the subscapularis and the long head of the triceps : through this part of the capsule the head of the bone usually protrudes in dis- locations into the axilla. At the upper and inner side of the joint, a small opening (fora- men ovale) is observable in the capsular ligament, through which the tendon of the subscapularis passes, and comes in contact with the synovial membrane. The upper surface of the capsule is strengthened by a strong band of ligamentous fibres, called the coraco-humeral or accessory Ugam.ent. It is attached to the root of the coracoid process, expands over the upper surface of the capsule, with which it is