83 TEMPORAL REGION. Eeflect the skin of the temple from below upwards. Under the skin you come upon a layer of toiigh fibro-cellular tissue, con- tinuous, above, with the aponeurosis of the scalp, below, with the fascia covering the masseter and the parotid gland. In this tissue are contained the superficial temporal vessels and nerves. This is the smaller of the two terminal branches of aXry!^^^ the external carotid. Arising in the substance of the parotid gland near the neck of the jaw, it passes over the root of the zygoma close to the meatus auditorius, ascends for about an inch and a half upon the temporal fascia, and there divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. Above the zygoma it is superficial, being covered only by the attrahens aurem muscle; here it is accompanied by the temporo-auricular branch of the inferior division of the fifth nerve. It gives off the following branches :— a. Several small branches to the parotid. b. The transversalis faciei (p. 77). c. The anterior auHcular branches ramify on the front of the pinna of the ear, inosculating with the posterior auricular. d. The middle temporal, a small vessel, pierces the temporal fascia above the zygoma, and running in the substance of the tem- poral muscle, anastomoses with the temporal branches of the internal maxillary. Of the two branches into which the temporal divides, the ante- rior runs tortuously towards the external angle of the frontal bone, distant from it about an inch. Its ramifications extend over the forehead, supplying the orbicularis and frontalis m., and inosculate with the supra-orbital and frontal arteries. The posterior runs towards the back of the head, and inosculates freely with the occi- pital and posterior auricular. The anterior branch is usually selected for arteriotomy, the posterior being covered by a strong and unyielding fascia. Temporo- ^^^^ ^^^^^ supplies the temples and side of the head auricular with common sensation. It arises from the third divi- sion of the fifth pair by two roots (between which the 'middle meningeal artery' runs). From its origin it proceeds G 2