MALE TERINEUM. 372 to this ligament, it is this which prevents the urine from travel- ling into the pelvis. Its connection with the superficial perineal fascia prevents the urine from getting into the ischio-rectal fossa: nor can the urine make its way into the thighs. The only outlet for it is into the cellular tissue of the scrotum and penis. 4. When suppuration takes place behind the ligament, the matter is pent up and should he speedily let out; if not, it will find its way into the cellular tissue of the pelvis and may burst into the urethra or the rectum. 5. The ligament is partially cut through in lithotomy. The parts divided in the lateral operation of lithotomy are: the skin, the superficial fascia, the transverse perineal muscle, vessels and nerve; the accelerator urinse, the anterior fibres of the leva- tor ani,the compressor urethrse, the triangular ligament, the mem- branous and prostatic parts of the urethra, and a small portion of the prostate. The anterior layer of the triangular ligament must What Hes j^q^ cut away to see what Ues behind it. These parts kyrrroflhe are shown in fig. 78; namely : 1, the membranous part of triangular ^Yie urethra, surrounded by, 2, the compressor urethrae ligament. ^^^^^^. 3^ Cowper's glands; 4, the pudic artery and its three terminal branches, i.e. the artery of the bulb, the artery of the crus, and the dorsal artery of the penis. To obtain the best perineal view of the compressor urethrae muscle, cut through the spongy part of the urethra about three inches above the end of the bulb, and dissect it from the corpus cavernosum. Thus, the upper fibres of the constrictor will be exposed; to see the lower, it is only necessary to raise the bulb. The most perfect view, however, of the muscle is obtamed by making a transverse section through the rami of the pubes, so as to get at the muscle from above, as shown in fig. 79. This muscle surrounds and supports the urethra in Compressor passage beneath the pubic arch. It arises from the ramus of the pubes on either side; from thence its fibres pass, some above, some below the urethra, along the whole length- of its.-membranous part. It forms a complete muscular