279 MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER. upon a flat tendon, two inches in breadth, which is inserted into the inner edge of the bicipital groove of the humerus, behind and a little below the tendon of the latissimus dorsi. Its action is to draw the humerus backwards. It is supplied by the middle sub- scapular nerve. You will find a bursa in front of, and another behind the tendon of the teres major; the former separates it from the latissimus dorsi, the latter from the bone. This muscle arises from the posterior two-thirds of fpmatus. supra-spinous fossa, and from its aponeurotic cover- ing. It passes under the acromion, over the shoulder- joint, and is inserted by a strong tendon into the greater tuber- osity of the humerus. To see its insertion, the acromion should be sawn off near the neck of the scapula. Its action is to assist the deltoid in raising the arm. Its nerve is derived from the supra-scapular. This muscle occupies the subscapular fossa. It arises Subscapu- f^.Qjj^ ^j^g posterior three-fourths of the fossa, from three or four tendinous septa attached to the oblique ridges on its surface. The fibres converge towards the neck of the scapula, where they terminate upon three or four tendons, which are concealed amongst the muscular fibres, and are inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. Its broad insertion is closely connected with the capsule of the shoulder-joint, which it com- pletely protects upon its inner side. Its action is to rotate the humerus inwards. The nerve which supplies it comes from the posterior cord which gives off the circumflex and musculo-spiral. The coracoid process, with the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps, form an arch, under which the tendon of the sub- scapularis plays. There are several hursce about the tendon. One of considerable size on the upper surface of the tendon, facili- tates its motion beneath the coracoid process and the coraco- brachialis: this sometimes communicates with the large bursa under the deltoid. Another is situated between the tendon and the capsule of the joint, and almost invariably communicates witli it.