PHRENIC NERVES. Ill pneumogastric nerve, and on the inner side is the artelria in- nominata. In the rest of its course it resembles the right carotid (p. 27). This is the third branch of the arch. It ascends out of the Left sub chest to the inner border of the first rib, and then ciavian curves outwards behind the scalenus anticus. In the ai-tery. gj.g^ ^^^^ jj.g course it is deeply seated, and is covered on its left side by the pleura. Close to its right .side are the trachea and oesophagus; between the artery and the oesophagus we find the thoracic duct. Like the other primary branches of the arch, it is crossed by the left brachio-cephalic vein. It is covered in front by the left lung, and it rests upon the longus colli. The upper part of its course, where the vessel passes in front of the apex of the lung, has been described with the anatomy of the neck (p. 54). Coui-se of the '^^^ phrenic nerve comes from the third, fourth, and phrenic nerves fifth ccrvical nerves. It descends over the- scalenus chest^''*^^ anticus, and enters the chest between the subclavian vein and artery. It then runs in front of the root of the lung between the pleura and the pericardium to the dia- phragm (fig. 21), to the under surface of which it is distributed. In what respects do the phrenic nerves differ from each other in their course ?—The right phrenic runs along the outer side of the brachio-cephalic vein and superior vena cava; the left crosses in front of the transverse part of the arch of the aorta; besides which, the left is rather longer than the right, because it has to go round the apex of the heart.* Before the phrenic nerve divides into branches to supply the diaphragm, it sends off minute filaments to the pleura and the pericardium. Having studied these anatomical details, consider for a moment what kind of symptoms are likely to be produced by an aneurism of the arch of the aOrta, or any of the primary branches. A glance at the important patts in the neighbourhood will answer the * In the upper part of the chest the phrenic is sometimes joined by a branch from the brachial plexus, less frequently by a branch from the clescendens noni.