STKUCTURE OF THE BLADDER AND PROSTATE. 393 bladder, and thence its fibres spread out longitudinally over the summit of the bladder, pass round its posterior aspect and base, to be inserted into the prostate in the male, and the vagina in the female. This layer is especially marked on the anterior and posterior sixrfaces of the bladder. Under this is a layer of circular fibres, especially developed near the neck. Towards the sides of the bladder the two sets of fibres have a less definite arrangement, and form a kind of network: these, therefore, are the weakest parts of the bladder, and more liable to the formation of pouches.* The development and colour of the muscular fibres depend upon whether the subject has suffered from irritation of the bladder, or any obstruction to the expulsion of the urine. The cellular coat serves to connect the muscular to the mucous, and is composed of ordinary connective tissue. The mucous coat is everywhere loosely connected to the muscular, except opposite the ' trigone,^ where they adhere more firmly. The bladder must be laid open by an incision along its front surface, to examine its intei'ior. In a recently contracted bladder, the mucous membrane is disposed in irregular folds, which dis- appear when the bladder is distended. In a healthy state, it is pale; when inflamed it becomes of a bright red. Under the microscope, its surface is seen to be studded with follicles. These follicles secrete the thick ropy mucus in inflammation of the bladder. The epithelium lining the mucous membrane varies in different parts of the bladder. Part is squamous ; part consists of a variety transitional between squamous and columnar. The orifice of the urethra is situated at the lower and anterior part of the bladder, not at the most dependent part, which forms * These pouches arise in the following manner :—A portion of mucous membrane is protruded through one of the muscular interstices, so as to form a little sac. This is small at first, but gradually increases in size, because, haying no muscular coat, it has no power of emptying itself; generally speaking, several such sacs are met with in the same bladder ; and they sometimes contain calculi. If a calculus, originally loose in the bladder, happen to become lodged in a pouch by the side of it, a sudden remission of the symptoms may ensue. This explains oiir inability to detect its presence by a sound.