185 DISSECTION OF THE OliBlT. sclerotica. In inflammation of the iris the vascular zone round the cornea arises from enlargement and congestion of the anterior ■ciliary arteries. e. Ethmoidal arteries.—These branches are two in numher, the •anterior, the larger, passes through the anterior orbital foramen ■with the nasal nerve; the ^posterior enters the posterior orbital foramen. Both give ofif anterior meningeal branches to the dura mater, and also supply the mucous membrane of the nose. /. Mioscular arteries.—These are uncertain in their origin, and give off the anterior ciliary branches. g. Palpebral arteries.—These branches proceed from the lachry- mal, nasal, and supra-orbital arteries. A. Nasal artery.—This branch may be considered one of the terminal divisions of the ophthalmic. It leaves the orbit on the nasal side of the eye, and inosculates with the angular artery (ter- mination of the facial). It supplies the side of the nose and the lachrymal sac. i. Frontal artery.—This is the other terminal branch of the ophthalmic. It emerges at the inner angle of the eye, runs upwards, and inosculates with the supra-orbital artery. This commences at the inner angle of the eye, by a vwn'^^'°^^*^ communication with the frontal and angular veins. It runs backwards above the optic nerve in a straighter course than the artery, receives corresponding branches, and finally passes between the two origins of the external rectus, to terminate in the cavernous sinus. Ophthalmic ■^^•'^^ ganglion (g, p. 178), about the size of a pin's or lenticular head, is situated at the back of the orbit, between the ganglion. optic nerve and the external rectus. It receives a sensitive branch (long root) from the nasal nerve, which joins its posterior superior angle; a motor branch (short root) from the lower division of the third, which enters its posterior inferior angle; p-nd it also receives {sympathetic) filaments from the plexus round the internal carotid artery, which enter the ganglion between its long and short roots. The ganglion thus furnished vsdth motor, ^sensitive, and sympathetic root.s, gives off the ciliary nerves.