522 DISSECTION or THE BKAIN. the external layer being always white. Some of these convolutions from their size and regularity have received special names. The most important are as follow:— a. The gyrus fornicatus, or the convolution of the corpus callo- sum, commences close to the optic commissure, and curving along the free surface of the corpus callosum, winds round its posterior extremity, and terminates in the middle lobe forming the hippo- campus major. 6. The marginal convolution, or the convolution of the longi- tudinal fissure, begins in the posterior part of the anterior lobe, courses along the margin of the fissure, and after a tortuous course is lost on the under surface of the middle lobe. c. The island of Reil This may be seen by separating the middle from the anterior lobe, deep in the fissure of Sylvius. It is composed of a number of small convolutions connected with those adjoining. It corresponds to the under surface of the corpus striatum, and might, therefore, be called the lobe of that ganglion. The under surface of each cerebral hemisphere is not only con- voluted like the upper, but presents in addition three lobes (fig. 122), an anterior, middle, and pos- ^^122. terior, which fit into the base of the skull. The anterior lobe, triangular in shape, rests upon the roof of the orbit, and is separated from the middle by a cleft called the ^fissure of Sylvius,'' which receives the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone. The middle lobe occupies the middle fossa of the skull, formed by the sphenoid and temporal bones. The jpos- 1,2,3. Anterior, middle, and poste- terior lobe rests ou the arch of the tento- nor lobes of the cerebrum. 4. Cerebellum. rium. Between this and the middle there 5. Pons Varolii. • i n -j. ^ j ii , e. Medulla oblongata. definite boundary, so that some anatomists enumerate only two lobes. losum. For an account of these laminae, and tlio best mode of examining them, see Baillarget, Eecherehes sur la Structure de la Couche Corticale des Circonvolutions du Cerveau, inserdes dans les Memoircs de I'Academie de M6decine, 1840.