491 CALF OF THE LEG. great toe. The action of this muscle is to raise the body on the tip of the great toe. It is essential to the propulsion of the body in walking. It is supplied by the posterior tibial nerve. This is so concealed between the two preceding muscles, posticus. ^^^^ cannot be properly examined without reflecting them. It arises from the interosseous membrane and from the contiguous surfaces of the tibia and fibula. In the lower part of the leg it passes between the tibia and the flexor longus digitorum. Its muscular fibres terminate on a tendon which comes into view a short distance above the inner ankle, and, running through the same groove with the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, enters the sole, and is inserted into the scaphoid and internal cuneiform bones. Its action is to bend and turn the foot inwards. It is supplied by the posterior tibial nerve. The precise situation of the tendon of the tibialis posticus is interesting, surgically, because the tendon has to be divided for the relief of talipes varus. It lies close to, and parallel with, the inner edge of the tibia, so that this is a good guide to it. It is necessary to relax the tendon, while the knife is introduced between the tendon and the bone. Its synovial sheath commences about 1^ inch above the end of the internal malleolus, and is consequently opened in the operation. _ Attention should now be directed to the internal annular hgament, which binds down the tendons behind the inner ankle. It is attached to the internal malleolus and the inner border of the OS calcis. It is continuous above with the deep fascia, below with the plantar fascia. Beneath it pass the tendons of the deep- seated muscles of the leg into the sole of the foot. The relative position of the structures passing under this ligament, proceeding from within outwards, are—the tendons of the tibiaHs posticus, a,nd the flexor longus digitorum; the posterior tibial artery accom- panied by its venae comites ; the posterior tibial nerve; and, lastly the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. Course and This artery is one of the branches into which the relations of popliteal divides at the lower border of the popliteus.