STRUCTURE OF THE SMALL INTESTINES. 434 their mucous membrane. Their peritoneal and muscular coats are the same throughout. The muscular coat consists of an outer thin longitudinal layer and an inner circular thicker layer. It is connected to the mucous membrane by the submucom coat. When the small intestines are cut open from the upper end, we observe that the mucous membrane is arranged in close transverse folds or plaits, called ' valvulce conniventes.' These diflFer from other folds in the alimentary canal, e.g. in the oesophagus and stomach, in that they are not obliterated when the tube is dis- tended. Each fold extends about one-half or two-thirds round the intestine ; but they are not all of equal size. They commence immediately below the openings of the biliary and pancreatic ducts, and are moat largely developed in the duodenum aad the upper part of the jejunum. Below this part of the tube they gradually decrease in size, and become wider apart, till they finally disappear near the middle of the ileum. The use of the valvulse conniventes is, to increase the extent of surface for the absorption of chyle; to prevent the food passing too rapidly through the intestines, and also for secretion. If a portion of small intestine be w-ashed and placed in water, the surface of the mucous membrane appears like the soft fur or pile upon velvet. This appearance is produced by small processes called villi. These are extremely vascular projections of the mucous membrane, about a fourth of aline in length, and so close to each other that a square line contains from forty to ninety of them. Their size, however, and their number, bear a direct ratio to that of the valvulse conniventes. Under the microscope a villus is seen to consist of an outstanding process of the mucous mem- brane, covered by a layer of columnar epithelium, which rests upon its proper basement membrane. Each villus is furnished with an artery which forms a network of inosculations over it, and then returns its blood by a single vein. In its interior it contains a lacteal or absorbing vessel, which commences in a closed end near the summit of the villus, where it is surrounded by a layer of pale unstriped muscular fibres. The cylindrical cells which cover the villi are believed to be the agents in the absorption of the chyle, and to possess the power of selection.