EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 45 The lingual vein runs over the hyo-glossus, and terminates in the internal jugular. The best place for finding and tying the lingual arteiy has already been mentioned. The rule laid down is trustworthy only when the artery runs its normal course. I have known an instance in which a good anatomist failed in an attempt to tie the lingual artery, because the vessel arose from the facial behind the sub- maxillary gland, and then passed through the mylo-hyoideus to reach the tongue. Study next the course and relations of the external carotid artery, and its branches in the neck. In preparing a view of them, observe that nearly all the veins lie in front of their corresponding arteries. J The external carotid arises from the common carotid (Jourse and relations about the level of the upper border of the thyroid car- oftheex- tilage. It ascends beneath the hypoglossal nerve, the temal ca- ° j tr o j rotid ar- facial and lingual veins, the posterior belly of the t^ry- digastricus and stylo-hyoideus, enters the parotid gland, where it lies beneath the facial nerve and external jugnilar vein, and terminates near the neck of the jaw, by dividing into the temporal and internal maxillary arteries. Notice the relative position which the external and internal carotids bear to each other. The external lies at first on the same plane with, but nearer to the side of the pharynx than the internal. The external, however, soon changes its position, and crosses obliquely in front of the internal to reach the space between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. The internal carotid ascends perpendicularly by the side of the pharynx to the base of the skull. The external is separated from the internal carotid by the stylo- glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and the stylo-hyoid ligament. The external carotid gives off the following branches :— 1. The superior thyroid. 5. The posterior aiiriciilar. 2. The lingual. 6. The internal maxillary. 3. The facial. 7. The temporal. 4. The occipital. 8. The ascending pharyngeal.