SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION, Igg the fangs of the first molar, canine, and incisor teeth. It also supplies the gums and the mucous lining of the antrum. e. The terminal branch, namely, the infra-orbital, was dissected with the face (p. 82). At this stage of the dissection, make a vertical incision rather on one side of the middle line of the skull, to expose the cavity of the nose. We shall thus be able to dissect the ' spheno-palatine ganglion' and its branches. Spheno-pala- , J^M^''^' ^'fj ^^^^ ^2), Called, after its discoverer, tine ganglion. ^^^ckeL s ganglion,' is deeply situated in the spheno- maxillary fossa, close to the outer side of the spheno- palatine foramen, immediately below the superior maxillary nerve. Its sensitive roots proceed from the superior maxillary; its motor root from the vidian branch of the facial; its sympathetic from the carotid plexus, which joins the vidian nerve before it enters the ganglion. Thus supplied, it fm-nishes branches to the mucous membrane and glands of the hard and soft palate, and to the back part of the nose. Meckel's ganglion gives off the following branches :— a. Branches to the palate.—To see these the mucous membrane must be removed from the back part of the nose; we shall then be able to trace the nerves through their bony canals. Their course is indicated by corresponding arteries. There are generally three of these nerves, called by names originally given to them by Meckel, anterior, middle, and posterior palatine. The anterior the large palatine nerve, descends through the posterior palatine canal to the roof of the mouth, and then runs forwards along the hard palate nearly to the gums of the incisor teeth ; but one or two branches proceed backwards to supply the soft palate. The middle palatine descends either in the same canal with the pre- ceding, or in a smaller one of its own, and terminates exclusively m the mucous membrane and glands of the soft palate. The pos- tenor palatme nerve may be traced in a special bony canal down to the soft palate, where it terminates in the mucous membrane and glands. One or two filaments pass into the uvula.^ posterior palatine nerve supplies the levator palati and the azygos uvxila, with motor