463 FKOiMT OF THE THIGH. the- ileum, beneath the tensor fascite and glutseiis medius, supply these muscles, and inosculate with the terminal branches of the glu- tseal artery. The transverse are chiefly lost in the vastus externus, and inosculate posteriorly with the ischiatic artery. The descending, one or more in number, of considerable size, run down between the rectus and crurseus, and supply both these muscles: one branch, larger than the rest, runs down in the substance of the vastus ex- ternus, along with the nerve to that muscle, and inosculates with the articular branches of the popliteal. The perforating branches of the profunda are so named because they pass through the adductors to supply the hamstring muscles. There are generally three, but they vary both in number and size. The first is the largest. It passes between the pectineus and ad- ductor brevis, then through the tendon of the adductor magnus. The second passes through the tendon of the adductor brevis and magnus, and usually furnishes the nutrient artery of the femur. The third, through the tendon of the adductor magnus. They not only supply the hamstring muscles—namely, the biceps, semi- tendinosus, and semimembranosus—but, also, the vastus externus and glutseus maximus. The perforating arteries inosculate with one another, with the internal circumflex, and with the ischiatic arteries. . ^. To test your knowledge of the arterial inosculations osculations, ^.bout the upper part of the thigh, reflect on the answer to the following questions. If the femoral were tied above the origin of the profunda, how would the circulation be carried on ? The ascending branch of the external circumflex communicates with the glutjeal; the internal circumflex commu- nicates with the obturator and ischiatic (see fig. 104). Again— how is the circulation maintained when the femoral is tied below the profunda ? The descending branch of the external circumflex and the perforating branches of the profunda communicate with tbe articular branches of the popliteal and the tibial recurrent.* * Eead the account of the dissection of an aneurismal limb by Sir A. Cooper, Med. Chir, Trans, vol. ii.