409 CONTENTS OF.FKMAI.E PELViS. and nerves, given in the dissection of the naale perineum, applies, mutatis mutandis, to the female, excepting that they are propor- tionably small, and that the artery which supplies the bulb of the urethra in the male is distributed to the bulb of the vagina in the female. DISSECTION OF THE FEMALE PELVIS. The internal organs of generation, viz., the vagina, uterus, and its appendages, should now be examined. Their relative position should first be noticed ; and afterwards, their special anatomy. General The uterus is interposed between the bladder in position of front, and the rectum behind. From each side of it a the litems i i /- i i n • and its broad lold 01 peritoneum extends transversely to the appendages. gi^Q of the pelvis, dividing that cavity into an anterior and a posterior part. These folds are called the broad ligaments of the uterus (fig. 90, p. 419). On the posterior surface of the ligament are the ovaries, one on each side. They are completely covered hy peritoneum, and suspended to the ligament by a small peritoneal fold. Each ovary is attached to the uterus by a round cord termed the ' ligament of the ovary.' Along the upper pai-t of the broad ligament we find between its layers a tube about four inches long, called the Fallopian tube, which conveys the ovum from the ovary into the uterus. For this purpose, one end of it terminates in the uterus, while that nearer to the ovary expands into a wide mouth, furnished with prehensile fringes—'fimbria;'—which, like so many fingers, grasp the ovum as soon as it is ready to escape from the ovary. One of these fimbriae is attached to the ovary Lastly, there run up to the ovary, between the layers of the broad ligament, the ovarian vessels and nerves, which arise from the aorta in the lumbar region, like the spermatic arteries in the male, because the ovaries are originally formed in the loins. On the anterior surface of the broad ligament, you see, on cither side between its layers, the round ligament of the uterus. This