CONTENTS OP FKMALE PELVIS. 412 the cellulai- tissue in which they are imbedded, before a clear view of the parts cau be obtained. Uietliri '^^^^^ urethra has already been described (p. 406). But in the side view of the parts, we have the opportunity of observing how closely the bladder and urethra are connected to the upper wall of the vagina; and we can iinderstand how, in cases of protracted delivery, it sometimes happens that the contiguous coats of the bladder and the vagina give way, and that there remains a fistulous conamunication between them, which continues to be a depending drain for the urine. . It is necessary to slit open the whole of the vagina along the side, to obtain a clear idea of the manner in which it embraces the lower end of the uterus, and of the extent to which the neck of the uterus projects into it. The length of the vagina, in the unimpregnated adult, is, on an average, about 4^ inches. It may be more, or less; the difference in each case depending upon the depth of the pelvis, the stature and age of the individual. Owing to the curved direction of the vagina, the anterior wall is about an inch shorter than the posterior. The vagina, however, is never so long, that we cannot, during life, feel the neck of the uterus projecting at the top of it; higher up, or lower down, according to circumstances. For instance, it is a little lower down in the erect than in the recumbent position ; again, in the early months of utero-gestation, the uterus descends a little into the vagina, so that this canal becomes shorter: the reverse holds good when the uterus begins to rise out of the pelvis. The axis of the vagina is slightly curved with the concavity up- wards ; it corresponds with the axis of the outlet of the pelvis; whereas, the axis of the uterus corresponds with that of the cavity of the pelvis. The width of the vagina is not imiform throughout. The narrow- est part is at the orifice; it is also a little constricted round the neck of the uterus. The widest part is about the middle : here a transverse section through it presents the appearance of a broad liorizontal fissure. If therefore you would insert the bivalve spec- ulum with the least amount of pain, the blades of the speculum