356 LUMBAR PLEXUS. The general plan upon winch the sympathetic nerve Sympathetic arrano-ed, has been noticed in the dissection of the NERVE. ° ' neck (p. 99). The lumbar portion of it must now be examined. The abdominal part of the sympathetic descends on either side, in front of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, along the inner border of the psoas. The nerve has a ganglion opposite each lumbar vertebra, so that there are five on each side. These ganglia are connected with one another hy small filaments, and each ganglion receives two branches from the corresponding spinal nerve, just as in the chest. They give off filaments, of which some twine round the aorta, and accompany the inferior mesenteric and spermatic arteries to the large intestine and the testicle; but the greater number terminate in the hypogastric plexus. The hypogastric plexus is situated between the com- Hyi^ogastric -^q-^ i^jac arteries, on the last lumbar and first sacral "dIcxus. • vertebrae. It consists of an inextricable interlacement of nerves, partly sympathetic, and partly spinal, and is a sort of nerve centre for the supply of the pelvic viscera. Tracing it for- wards, you find that it is continued on in two divisions, one for each side of the pelvis. The minute filaments proceeding from each division accompany the visceral branches of the internal iliac artery of their respective sides, and supply the bladder, prostate gland, and rectum; and in the female, the uterus and vagina. Thus we have the vesical, hsemorrhoidal, uterine, and vaginal plexuses. Of these, however, none are seen in an ordinary dis- section. No ganglia are found in the hypogastric plexus. LiTjiBAK "^^^^ plexus is formed by the union of the anterior PLEXUS OF branches of the four upper lumbar nerves. The fifth NEBVEs. lumbar does not form part of this plexus, but joins the direction of the artery, and thus laid bare the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, which I next divided from its connection with Poupart's ligament, in the direction of the external wound, for the extent of about two inches. The margins of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles being thus exposed, I introduced my finger beneath them for the protection of the peritoneum, and then di\-ided them. Next, with my hand, I pushed the peritoneum and its contents upwards and inwards, and took hold of the artery.'