SUBCLAVIAN ARTEUY. 2. The left, subclavian is in close relation with the oesophagus and the thoracic duct: the right is not. 3. The left subclavian is crossed by the left brachio-cephalic vein. 4. The left subclavian has the phrenic, pneumogastric, and sym- pathetic nerves nearly parallel with it; on the right side, these nerves cross the artery at a nearly right angle. 5. The left subclavian is not embraced by the recurrent laryn- geal nerve, like the right subclavian. The thoracic duct bears an important relation to the left sub- clavian. It ascends from the chest to the left of the oesophagus and behind the artery; then arches behind the internal jugular vein, and terminates in the subclavian vein at its junction with the jugular. The duct is so thin and transparent that it easily escapes observation; it is most readily found by raising the sub- clavian vein close to its junction with the jugular, and searching with the handle of the scalpel on the inner side of the scalenus anticus, in front of the vertebral vein. Before tracing the branches of the subclavian artery, consider some points relating to the operation of tying it. To tie the artery in the first part of its course, namely, on the inner edge of the scalenus anticus, is an operation of great difficulty and danger, even with the parts in a normal position. The great depth at which the artery is placed, the size and close proximity of its numerous branches, the large veins by which it is covered, its connection with the pneumogastric, recurrent laryngeal, phrenic, and sympathetic nerves, and above all its close contiguity with the pleura, form a combination of circumstances so formidable that one cannot be surprised the operation has never been performed with a favourable result. In the second part of its course, namely, between the scalene muscles, the artery is more accessible. It would be necessary to divide the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, the cervical fascia, and the scalenus anticus, to reach the vessel; the phrenic nerve and the subclavian vein would be the chief objects exposed to injury. This operation was performed first and with success by