150 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. These are small arteries, two or more in number for xsroncuial i i mi • i . . arteries. ^^^'■^ ^""g- J-he right arises either from the first aortic intercostal or, conjointly with the left bronchial, from the concavity of the arch of the aorta. They enter the lung behind the divisions of the bronchi, which they accompany. They are the proper nutritive vessels of the organ. The old anatomists called them the ' vasa privata xmlmonum,'' to distinguish them from the 'vasa publica pulmonum'—namely, the pulmonary ai-teries. The former provide 'pro existentia pnvata pulmo- num;' the latter 'pro bono publico totius organismV The bronchial vessels are distributed in various ways; some of their branches supply the coats of the air-passages and the large blood- vessels, others the interlobular tissue, and a few reach the surface of the lung, and ramify beneath the pleura. The right bronchial veins terminate in the vena azygos; the left, in the superior inter- costal vein. The nerves of the lung are derived from the pneumogastric and the sympathetic. They enter with the bronchial tubes, forming a plexus in front and behind them (anterior and posterior pulmonary plexus). The absorbents of the lung form a network upon its surface and in the interlobular spaces. They all pass through the bron- chial glands. Of these, the lai-ger are situated about the bronchi near the root of the lung, particularly under the bifurcation of the trachea. DISSECTION OF THE PHAEYNX. To obtain a view of the pharynx, cut through the trachea, ceso- phagus, and the great vessels of the neck, and then separate them from the bodies of the cervical vertebrae, to which they are loosely connected. The base of the skull should be sawn through between the vertebral column and the styloid processes of the temporal bones, so as to leave the pharynx and larynx attached to the anterior half of the section. Horsehair should be introduced through the mouth and oesophagus to distend the pharynx. The term •' pharynx ' is applied to that part of the alimentary