136 . DISSKCTION OF THK JIP:AUT. number of these nnisculi papillares is equal to the number of the chief divisions of the valve; consequently there are three in the ricrht and two in the left ventricle. Of those in the right ventricle, one proceeds from the septum. There are two openings in the right ventricle. One, the auriculo- ventricular, through which the blood passes from the auricle, is oval in form and placed at the base of the ventricle. It is sur- rounded by a ring of fibrous tissue, to which is attached the tri- cuspid valve. From the upper and front part of the ventricle, a smooth passage (' infundibulum' or ' conus arteriosus') leads to the opening of the pulmonary artery. It is situated to the left and in front of the auriculo-ventricular, and about three-fourths of an inch higher. This is situated at the right auriculo-ventricular Tricuspid opening, and consists of three principal triangular flaps, and besides these of intermediate flaps of smaller size. Like all the valves of the heart, it is formed by a fold of the lining membrane (' endocardium ') of the heart, strengthened by fibrous tissue, in which muscular fibres may be demonstrated. The base .of the valve is attached to the tendinous ring round the opening; its segments lying in the cavity of the right ventricle. Of its three principal flaps, the largest is so placed that when not m action, it partially covers the orifice of the pulmonary artery: another lies behind the anterior wall of the ventricle, and the third rests upon the septum ventriculorum. Observe the arrangement of the tendinous cords which regulate the action of the valve. First, they are all attached to the ven- tricular surface of the valve. Secondly, the tendinous cords pro- ceeding from a given papillary muscle are attached to the adjacent halves of two of the larger flaps, and to a smaller intermediate one ; consequently, when the ventricle contracts, and thepapdlary muscle also, the adjacent borders of the flaps will be approximate^d. Thirdlv, to insure the strength of every part of the valve the tendinous cords are inserted at three different _ points of it m straight lines; accordingly, they are divisible into three sets. Those of the first, which are three or four in number, are attached