PECTORAL REGION. 219 of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The fibres con- verge towards the arm, and terminate in a flat tendon, about two inches in breadth, which is inserted into the anterior margin of the bicipital groove of the humerus. Their arrangement, as well as the structure of their tendon, is peculiar. The lower fibres which form the boundary of the axilla are folded beneath the rest, and terminate upon the upper part of the tendon, i.e. nearer to the shoulder joint; whereas the upper fibres, which arise from the clavicle, and are frequently separated from the main body of the muscle by a slight interval, descend in front of the lower, and terminate upon the lower part of the tendon. Consequently the upper and lower fibres of the muscle cross each other previously to their insertion. _ The object of this arrangement is to enable aU the fibres to act simultaneously when the arm is extended. The upper part of the tendon sends ofif an 'aponeurosis' which straps down the long head of the biceps, and is attached to the great tuberosity of the humerus. A second expansion is prolonged backwards to the tendon of the deltoid muscle, and a third is intimately connected with the fascia of the upper arm. The chief action of the pectoralis major is to draw the humerus towards the chest: as in placing the hand on the opposite shoulder, or in pulling an object towards the body. When the arm is raised and made the fixed point, the muscle assists in raising the trunk as in climbing. ' Eetween the pectoralis major and the deltoid, the great muscle of the shoulder, is an interval varying in extent in different sub- jects, but always more marked towards the clavicle. It contains a small artery-the thoradca humeraria~and the cephalic vein, which ascends on the outer side of the arm, and empties itself into the axillary. This interval is the proper place to feel for the coracoid process. In doubtful injuries about the shoulder, this point of bone IS a good landmark in helping the surgeon to arrive at a correct diagnosis. The pectoralis major is supplied with nerves by the anterior