TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. 21 of the superior thyroid; the lower mastoid is a branch of the supra-scapular. Anatomists avail themselves of the sterno-mastoid SiTne^k'* muscle, to divide the neck on each side into two great triangles, an anterior and a posterior (fig. 6). The base of the anterior triangle is formed by the jaw, its sides by the mesial line and the front border of the sterno-mastoid. The pos- terior has the clavicle for the base, while the sides are defined by the hind border of the sterno-mastoid, and the free border of the trapezius. The omo-hyoid muscle, which crosses the neck under the sterno- mastoid, subdivides these great primary triangles into four smaller ones (fig. 6), of unequal size: an anterior superior, an anterior inferior, a posterior superior, and a posterior inferior. The direc- tion of the omo-hyoid muscle renders their boundaries at once obvious. Contents of '^^^ cellular tissue must now be carefully posterior removed from the posterior triangle. The following tiiangle. ujuscles will be seen forming its floor, viz., beginning from above, the splenius capitis, the levator anguli scapulte, the scalenus medius and posticus. This triangle is subdivided into two unequal parts by the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid—an upper or occipital and a lower or clavicular. In the upper tri- angle are found the superficial branches of the cervical plexus, and passing obliquely downwards from beneath the sterno-mastoid is the spinal accessory nerve, which enters the under part of the trapezius. The transversalis colli (posterior scapular) artery and vein, and its branch the superficialis colli (which chiefly supplies the trapezius), cross transversely outwards the lower part of the space. A chain of lymphatic glands is also found along the pos- terior border of the sterno-mastoid. Nervus "^^^ upper part of the sterno-mastoid is traversed tccessorius. Obliquely by a large nerve called the spinal accessory or n. accessorius. This nerve, one of the three divisions of the eighth pair of cerebral nerves, arises from the cervical portion of the spinal cord by a series of filaments from the lateral tract as