TEMPOKAL REGION. 84 outwards between tlie neck of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament, over the root of the zygoma, where it joins the temporal artery, and divides like it into an anterior and a jposterior branch. Its ramifications correspond with those of the artery. Near the condyle of the jaw the temporo-auricular nerve sends branches to the upper division of the facial nerve, endowing it with common sensibility. It here distributes branches to the parotid gland, meatus auditorius, and the articulation of the jaw. Above the zygoma it gives filaments (auricular) to the outer surface of the pinna of the ear. Lastly, in the subcutaneous tissue of the temple, we find the temporal branches of the facial nerve, which supply the frontalis, the attrahens aurem, the orbicularis oculi, tensor tarsi, and corru- gator supercilii. This muscle arises from the lower edge of the zygoma, Masseter ^nd is inserted into the outer side of the ramus and ^^^'^l''- coronoid process of the jaw. The masseter is composed of superficial and deep fibres which cross like the letter X. The superficial fibres, constituting the principal part of the muscle, arise from the anterior two-thirds of the zygoma by a strong tendon which occupies the front border of the muscle, and sends aponeurotic partitions into its substance. These fibres pass down- wards and backwards, this direction giving them greater advantage, and are inserted into the angle and part of the ramus of the jaw. The deep fibres (which are concealed by the parotid gland) arise from the posterior part of the zygoma, incline forwards, and are inserted into the upper half of the ramus and the coronoid process. Besides these, a few fibres, arising from the inner surface of the zygoma, are inserted into the coronoid process and the tendon of the temporal muscle. Its action is to masticate the food: it closes the jaw with great force. The following objects lie upon the masseter: 1. Glandula socia parotidis, and parotid duct; 2. Transversalis faciei artery; 3. Facial artery and vein ; 4. Branches of the facial nerve. Reflect tlie masseter from its origin. Observe the direction ot the superficial and deep fibres, and the tendinous partitions which