DlSSECTIO>i OF THE TALM OF THE HAND. 2G7 adductor pollicis), and gives off three branches — the arteria magna pollicis, the radialis indicis, and the pal maris profunda, which unites with the ulnar to form the deep arch. The arteria magna jpollicis runs in front of the abductor indicis (first dorsal interosseous), close along the metacarpal bone of the thumb : in the interval between the lower portions of the flexor brevis pollicis, the artery divides into two branches, which proceed one on either side of the thumb, and inosculate at the apex of the last phalanx. Their distribution and mode of termination are similar to those of the other digital arteries. The arteria radialis indicis runs between the abductor indicis and adductor pollicis, along the radial side of the index finger to the extremity, where it forms an arch with the other digital artery, a branch of the ulnar. Near the lower margin of the adductor pollicis, the radialis indicis generally receives a branch from the superficial palmar arch. The jpahnaris profunda is considered as the continuation of the radial artery. It enters the palm between the inner head of the flexor brevis and the adductor pollicis, resting upon the bases of the metacarpal bones and the interosseous muscles, and inosculates with the deep branch of the ulnar artery, thus completing the deep palmar arch. From the curve of the arch small recurrent branches ascend to supply the bones and joints of the carpus, inosculating with the other carpal arteries. From the convexity of the arch four small branches, called palmar interosseous (fig. 51, p. 258), descend to supply the interosseous muscles, and near the clefts of the fingers communicate with the digital arteries. These palmar mterosseous branches are sometimes of considerable size, and take the place of one or more of the digital arteries, ordinarily derived from the superficial palmar arch. Other branches, called 'per- forating; pass between the upper ends of the metacarpal bones to the back of the hand, and communicate with the carpal branches of the radial and ulnar. Deep branch '^^^^ nerve sinks into the palm with the ulnaris pro- of the ulnar funda artery, between the abductor and flexor brevis nerve. . . . . . mimmi digiti. It then runs, with the deep palmar