DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. and terminates in the under surface of the deltoid, where it inosculates with the posterior circumflex artery. The most remarkable branch of the anterior circumflex artery is one which runs with the long tendon of the biceps up the groove of the hunaerus, and is called, on that account, the bicipital artery. It supplies the shoulder-joint and the neck of the humerus. Axillary The axillary vein is formed by the junction of the vein. venae comites of the brachial artery, near the lower border of the subscapularis. It receives the subscapular and the other veins corresponding to the brandies of the axillary artery, with the exception of the circumflex, which usually join either the subscapular or one of the venee comites. The axillary also receives the cephalic, and sometimes the basilic vein. The axillary vein in the first part of its course lies in front of the artery, and close to its sternal side; in the lower two thirds of its covu'se the vein lies still to the sternal side of the artery, but is separated from it by some of the nerves of the brachial plexus. This plexus is formed bv the anterior branches of Axillary or , ■ ^ " i n i ^ ^ t brachial the lour lower cervical and nrst dorsal nerves, and plexus of receives also a small communicating branch from the fourth cervical nerve. The plexus is broad at the lower part of the neck, where it emerges between the anterior and middle scalene muscles; but it gradually contracts as it descends beneath the clavicle into the axilla. The arrangement of the nerves in the formation of the plexus is usually thus:—The fifth and sixth cervical unite to form a single cord; the eighth cervical and the first dorsal form another cord; the seventh cervical runs for a short distance alone, and then splits into two branches, one of which joins the cord formed by the fifth and sixth cervical, the other, that formed by the eighth cervical and fir^t dorsal. The branch joining the trunk formed by the eighth cervical and first dorsal usually receives a large reinforce- ment from the conjoined fifth and sixth cervical. Thus two great trunks are formed, which lie for some distance above and to the outer side of the subclavian artery. Beneath the clavicle, a third