FKONT OF THE THIGH. 458 the tibia, the other between the crnrseus and the lower part of the feinur. This hist is of considerable size. In early life it is, as a rule, distinct from the synovial membrane of the knee-joint; but after a few years of friction a wide communication frequently exists between them. Action of extensor muscles of the thigh are among the the extensor most powerful in the body. Great power of extending muscles. ^j^^ knee is one of the essential conditions of the erect attitude. Without it, how could we rise from the sitting position? When erect, how could we walk, run, or spring ? The rectus, by taking origin from the pelvis, gains a double advantage; it acts upon two joints simultaneously, bending the thigh while it extends the knee, as when we advance the leg in walking: it also contri- butes to balance the pelvis on the head of the thigh bone, and thus prevents the body from falling backwards. We cannot have a better proof of the collective power of the extensor muscles than when the patella is broken by their contraction ; an injury which sometimes happens when a man, slipping backwards, makes a violent effort to recover his balance. The skin over the patella is exceedingly loose, and Bursa over j subcutaneous tissue is a bursa of considerable the patella. i t • n • size. Since this bursa is apt to enlarge and inflame m females who are in the habit of kneeling at their work, it is gene- rally called 'the housemaid's bursa.' The bursa is not seated exactly over the patella, but extends some way down the bga- raentum patellae; indeed, in some cases it is entirely confined to this ligament. This corresponds with the position of the tu- mour which the bursa occasions when enlarged. Generally speak- ing, in subjects brought for dissection, the wall of the bursa is more or less thickened, and its interior intersected by numerous fibrous cords, remnants of the original cellular structure altered by long-continued friction. Again, the wall of the bursa does not always form a complete sac; sometimes there is a wide opening in it; this explains the rapidity with which inflammation, in some cases, extends from the bursa into the surrounding cellular tissue.