ARTERIES OF THE PACE. 75 jaw. This structure is thin over the anterior part of the muscle, but more dense behind, where it is continuous with the aponeurosis of the pharynx. It is called the ' bucco-pharyngeal' fascia, since it supports and strengthens the muscular walls of these cavities. In consequence of the resistance of this fascia, abscesses do not readily burst into the mouth or the pharynx. The molar glands, three or four in number, situated ^ands immediately outside the posterior part of the bucci- nator, are about the size of a split pea, and their secretion is conveyed to the mouth by separate ducts near the last molar teeth. Between the buccinator and the masseter there is in almost all subjects an accumulation of fat. It is found, beneath the zygoma especially, in large round masses, and may be turned out with the handle of the scalpel. It fills up the zygomatic fossa, and being soft and elastic, does not present the least obstacle to the free movements of the jaw. Its absorption in emaciated individuals occasions the sinking of the cheek. The facial (external maxillary) artery is the third artery branch of the external carotid. It runs tortuously be- neath the hypoglossal nerve, the posterior belly of the digastricus, and the stylo-hyoideus, next through the substance of the submaxillary gland, and mounts over the base of the jaw at the anterior edge of the masseter muscle. Up to this point we traced it in the dissection of the neck (page 38). It now ascends tortuously near the corner of the mouth and the ala of the nose, towards the inner angle of the eye, where, much diminished in size, it inosculates with the terminal branch of the ophthalmic, a branch of the internal carotid. In the first part of its course, the facial artery is covered only by the platysma; above the corner of the mouth it is crossed by a few fibres of the orbicularis oris and the zygomatici; still higher it is covered by some of the fibres of the elevators of the upper lip and the nose. It lies successively upon the buccinator, levator anguli oris, and levator labii superioris muscles. In its course along the face it gives off the following branches:—