PEDUNCLES OF THE CEREBELLUM. 543 In addition to the amygdala and flocculi already mentioned, other lobes have been described on the under surface of the cere- bellum. Thus, there is the digastric lobe, situated external to the amygdala; and behind this are successively the slender and the inferior posterior lobes. Ar,^»-„.o . To examine the internal structure of the cerebellum, of the a longitudinal section should be made through the mtenor. thickest part of one of the hemispheres. There is then seen in the centre a large nucleus of white matter, from which branches radiate into the grey substance in all directions. Each of these branches corresponds to one of the plates of the cere- bellum, and from it other smaller branches proceed and again subdivide. This racemose appearance of the white matter in the substance of the grey has been likened to the branches of a tree deprived of its leaves, and is generally known as the ' arbor vitce;' it is a beautiful contrivance for bringing an extensive surface of the two kinds of nervous matter into connection with each other. Co usrhom ^^^^ Centre of the white nucleus of each hemi- boMeum''. spbere is an oval space, circumscribed by a zigzag line of grey matter. To this the name ' corpus dentatum or rhomboideum' has been given. It is displayed both by a vertical and by a horizontal section. Peduncles of The cerebellum is connected with the cerebro-spiual beHum'' ^^^^ ^^^^^ peduncles or crura—superior, middle, and inferior. With the medulla oblongata it is connected by means of the restiform tracts—these are called the processus a cerebello ad medullam or its inferior crura; with the cerebrum, by means of the processus a cerebello ad testes—these are called' its superior crura. The transverse fibres of the pons constitute the middle crura. Function. I?especting the function of the cerebellum, the arguments furnished by comparative anatomy render probable that it is a co-ordinator of muscular movements-e g in the action of walking, flying, swimming, &c.