SrJNAL COUD. u46 are loosely surrounded by a sheath of the arachnoid; but this only accompanies them as far as the dura mater, and is then reflected upon that membrane. ^. Tlie pia mater of the cord is the protecting membrane ° ■ which immediately invests it. It is quite different from that of the brain, since it does not form a bed in which the arteries break up, but serves rather to support and strengthen the cord : consecjuently it is much less vascular, more fibrous in its structure, and more adlierent to the substance of the cord. The fibres of which it is composed are rendered very evident by im- mersion for a time in water. It sends dovm thin folds into the anterior and posterior fissures of the cord, and is prolonged upon the spinal nerves, and forms their investing membrane, or ' neuri- lemma.' From the upper part of the second lumbar vertebra, the pia mater is continued down as a slender filament, called the 'filum terminalej' which runs in the middle of the bundle of nerves into which the spinal cord breaks up. It is prolonged to the sacrum, where it becomes continuous with the dura mater of the cord. In its upper part may be traced some nerve matter, continued from the spinal cord, and a small artery and vein. The pia mater sends off from each side of the cord, Ligamentum along its whole length, a fibrous band, ' ligamentum denticulatum. „ ■ r i denhculatum; which gives off a series ot processes to steady and support the cord. They are triangular, their bases being attached to the cord, and their points to the inside of the dura mater (fig. 130). There are from eighteen to twenty-two of them on each side, and they lie between the anterior and posterior It can be made to flow from the brain into the cord, or vice versL This is proved by experiments on animals, and by that pathological condition of the spine in children termed ' spina bifida.' In the latter instance, coughing and crying make the tumour swell; showing that fluid is forced into it from the ventricles. Again, if pressure be made'on the tumour with one hand, and the fontanelles of the child examined with the other, in proportion as the spinal swelling decreases so is the brain felt to swell up accompanied by symptoms resulting from pressure on the nervous axis generally. See also some remarks by Dr. Burrows, On Diseases of the Cerebral Circulation, p. 50, 1846.