584 DISSECTION OF THE TESTIS. along the back of the gland. From the upper part of the rete the secretion is carried away to the large end of the epididymis by fifteen or twenty tubes, termed, ' vasa effereniia.'' These, after forming a vast number of coils, termed ' coni vaaculosi,'' which collectively constitute the globus major of the epididymis, ulti- mately terminate, one after the other, in a single duct, the com- mencement of the vas deferens. Commencing, then, in the globus major of the epididymis, the vas deferens descends, making a series of extremely tortuous coils, which alone form the globus minor.* From the lower part of the globus minor the vas deferens ascends, joins the other component parts of the spermatic cord, passes through the inguinal canal, winds round the back part of the bladder, and empties itself into the prostatic part of the urethra. The length of the vas deferens was estimated by Monro at upwards of thirty feet. The same anatomist calculated that the semen, before it arrived at the vas deferens, had to traverse a tube forty-two feet in length. The spermatic cord is composed of the spermatic cord™^*^'" vessels, nerves, and absorbents, of the vas deferens, with the little deferential artery (a branch of the superior vesical), of the cremaster muscle and the cremasteric artery. Its coverings have been described with the anatomy of the parts of hernia, p. 323. The course of the spermatic arteries and veins have been de- scribed in the dissection of the Abdomen, p. 352. The artery is remarkably tortuous as it descends along the cord; it enters the back part of the testicle, and breaks up into a multitude of fine ramifications, which spread out on the inner surface of the tunica albuginea. The spermatic veins leave the testicle at its back part, and, as they ascend along the cord, become extremely tortuous, and form a plexus termed 'pampiniform.'' It is usually stated that these veins are destitute of valves; and this fact is adduced as one of the reasons for the occurrence of ' variocele.' But it is certain that the larger veins do contain valves. * A little blind duct, called vasculum abcrrans, is sometimes connected eitlier to the epididymis or the yas deferens.