286 J>JSSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOREAUM. muscles, and divides at the second phalanx into three portions, of which the middle is inserted into the upper end of the second phalanx; the two lateral, reuniting over the lower end of the second phalanx, are inserted into the upper end of the third.* Observe the oblique aponeurotic slips which connect the tendons on the back of the hand. They are subject to great variety. The tendon of the index finger is commonly free; it is situated on the radial side of the proper indicator tendon, and becomes united \vith it at the metacarpal joint. The tendon of the middle usually receives a slip from that of the ring-finger. The tendon of the ring finger generally sends a slip to the tendons on either side of it, and in some cases entirely furnishes the tendon of the little finger. It is not only a general extensor of the fingers, but it can extend some of the phalanges independently of the rest: e.g. it can extend the first phalanges while the second and third are flexed; or it can extend the second and third phalanges daring flexion of the first. This long slender muscle, which is situated on the digitTmf- inner side of the common extensor muscle, arises from nimi or the common tendon from the external condyle, and auricularis. ^j.^.^ ^he septa between it and the contiguous muscles. Its slender tendon runs beneath the annular ligament immedi- ately behind the joint between the radius and ulna, in a special sheath lined by synovial membrane. At the first joint of the little finger, the tendon is joined by that of the common extensor, and both expand upon the first and second phalanges, terminat- ing in the same manner as the extensor tendons of the other fingers. Its nerve comes from the posterior interosseus. ^ ^ ^ This muscle arises from the common tendon fi-om carpi the external condyle, from the septum between it and ulnaris. estensor minimi digiti, and from the aponeurosis of the forearm. The fibres terminate upon a strong broad tendon, * The extensor teiidons are only inserted into the periosteum, whereas the flexor tendons are inserted into the substance of the bone. This accounts for the facility with which the former will tear oif the bones in cases of necrosis, while the latter will adhere so tightly as to require cutting before the phalanx can be removed.