MALE PEKINEUM. 365 The cutaneous sphincter ani must now be cleaned; care being taken not to remove any of its fibres. Posteriorly, the lower border of the glutseus maximus must be displayed, and the vessels and nerves crossing the perineum, towards the anus, carefully dis- sected. Cutaneous cutaneous sphincter of the anus arises from the sphincter point of the coccyx, and from the ano-coccygeal liga- ment. The muscular fibres surround the anus, and are inserted in a pointed manner in the tendinous centre of the perineum (p. 367). Jt is called the cutaneous sphincter, to dis- tinguish it from a deeper and more powerful band of muscular fibres which surrounds the last inch or more of the rectum, and is situated nearer to the mucous membrane. Cutaneous cutaneous vessels and nerves of the perineum vessels and Come from the internal pudic artery and nerve, and nerves. chiefly from that branch of it called the ' superficicdis jperinei: This will be traced presently. Besides this, a cutaneous nerve is distributed to these parts from the lesser ischiatic, called the long pudendal nerve (p. 367). It comes through the muscular fascia of the thigh a little above the tuber ischii, and ascends, dividing into filaments, which supply the skin of the perineum' and scrotum. Crossing transversely through the ischio-rectal fossa, from the ramus of the ischium towards the anus, are the externcd or in- ferior hcemorrhoidal arteries. These come from the pudic (which may be felt on the inner side of the ischium), and running in- wards, supply the rectum, levator ani, and sphincter ani. The nerve which accompanies the artery comes from the pudic, and supplies the sphincter ani and the skin of the perineum. Superficial subcutaneous fascia of the perineum is composed flsdaoTthe ^ superficial and a deep layer. The superficial perineum. layer contains more or less fat, and is continuous with that of the scrotum, the thighs, and the posterior part of the perineum. The deeper layer is best demonstrated by blow- ing air beneath it with a blow-pipe ; its connections are as follow : — It IS attached on either side to the anterior lip of the ramus of