420 CONTENTS OF FEMALE PELVIS. uterus by a short peritoneal fold, which transmits their proper vessels and nerves: besides this, they are connected on their inner side to the uterus by a thin cord, called the ligament of the ovary. They are of an oblong form, with the long axis transverse, and a little smaller than the testicles. In females who have not often menstruated, their surface is smooth and even ; in after-life, they become puckered and scarred by the repeated escape of the ova. The ovary is about an inch and a half long, and weighs about a drachm and a half. It has nearly the same coverings as the testicle ; viz. a serous coat, and beneath it a proper fibrous coat, the ' tunica albuginea.' If a section be made through the ovary, you find that it contains transparent vesicles, embedded in a soft fibrous-looking tissue, remarkably vascular when well injected, called the ' stroma ' of the ovary. The outer part of the ovary is chiefly occupied by these vesicles; the central part, in which there are very few, is composed almost entirely of the stroma. The transparent vesicles just alluded to are the ovisacs or ' Graafian ' * vesicles. They vary in number from eight to thirty, and in size from that of a pin's head to a pea. The smallest are near the centre; but as they advance towards matunty, they gradually approach the surface, increasing at the same time in size. They contain a transparent albuminous fluid. On examining the contents of one of the larger vesicles under the microscope, you find in it the ovum or germ,t surrounded by a layer of granular cells called the 'discus proligerus: It is this ovum which, escaping from the Graafian vesicle on the surface of the ovary, is grasped by the Fallopian tube and conveyed into the uterus. Ihe ruptured vesicle is converted soon afterwards into a yellowish- lookincT mass called ' corpus hdeum; which persists for a while, and degenerates afterwards into a small fibrous cicatrix. The ramifications of the ovarian artery through the ovary are remarkable for their convolutions : they run in parallel lines, as in the testicle. Its nerves are derived from the ovarian plexus. * So called after De Graaf, a Dutch anatomist, who discovered them in 1672, and be- lieved they were the true ova. , -n • 1Q07 . t This was first distinctly pointed out by Von Baer m 1827.