PRECORDIAL REGION. 116 is caused not by loss of blood, but by compression of the heart in consequence of the inextensibility of the pericardium. The pericardium derives its blood from the internal mammary, bronchial, and oesophageal arteries. Cut open the pericardium, and observe that the heart is conical in form, and convex everywhere except upon its lower surface, which is flat, and rests upon the tendinous centre of the diaphragm. When the pericardium is thus laid open, the following objects are exposed: viz. 1. Part of the right ventricle; 2. Part of the left ventricle; 3. Part of the right auricle with its appendix over- lapping the root of the aorta; 4. The appendix of the left auricle overlapping the root of the pulmonary artery; 5. The aorta; 6. The pulmonary artery; 7. The vena cava superior; 8. The right and left coronary arteries. The heart then is placed behind the lower half of the sternum, occupies more of the left than the right half of the chest, and rests upon the central tendon of the diaphragm, which is nearly on a plane with the lowest part of the fifth rib. At each contraction the apex of the heart may be felt beating between the cartilages of the fifth and sixth ribs, about two inches below the nipple, and one inch on its sternal side. Its base extends as high as the upper border of the third costal cartilage, and about half an inch to the right of the sternum. The ' prcecordial region' is the outline of the heart Prsecorclial traced upon the front wall of the chest. We ought to region. ^^^^ define this region with something like pre- cision. We should know how much of it is covered and separated from the wall of the chest by intervening lung (fig. 23). This then is the rule :—Let the middle of the fifth costal cartilage be the centre of a circle two inches in diameter: this circle will define well enough, for all practical purposes, that part of the prsecordial reo-ion which is naturally less resonant to percussion; here the heart is uncovered except by pericardium and loose cellular tissue, and is very near the wall of the chest. In the rest of the prse- cordial region the heart is covered and sepai-ated from the chest by intervening lung.