FEMALE PERINEUM. 408 analogy to tlie bulb of tbe uretbru in tbemale. Tbis vaginal bulb extends across the middle line between the meatus urinarius and the clitoris, as shown in fig. 88, which was taken from an injected preparation in the Musee Orfila at Paris. The hymen is a thin fold of mucous membrane which, Hymeu. virgin, extends across the lower part of the en- trance of the vagina, about half an inch behind the fourchette. In most instances its form is crescent-shaped, with the concavity upwards. There are several varieties of hymen; sometimes there are two folds, one on either side, so as to make the entrance of the vagina a mere vertical fissure ; * or there may be a septum perfo- rated by several openings {Hymen cribrlformis), or by one only (Hymen circularis). Again, there may be no opening at all in it, and then it is called Hymen imperforatus. Under this last condition no inconvenience arises till puberty. The menstrual discharge must then necessarily accumulate in the vagina: indeed, the uterus itself may become distended by it to such an extent as even to simulate pregnancy.f The presence of the hymen is not necessarily a proof of virginity, nor does its absence imply the loss of it. Cases are related by writers on midwifery in which a division of the hymen was requisite to facilitate parturition. In Meckel's Museum, at Halle, are preserved the external organs of a female in whom the hymen is perfect even after the birth of a seven-months' child. ^ , , At the lower part of the orifice of the vagina is Bartliolin s or , ^ , ,. .,, ii Duverney's imbedded, in the loose tissue on either side, a small glands. gland,t which corresponds to Cowper's gland in the male. Each has a long slender duct, which runs forwards and opens on the inner side of the nympha. In cases of virulent gonorrhoea these glands are apt to become diseased, and give rise to the formation of an abscess in the labium, very difficult to heal. The description of the perineal branches of the pudic vessels * Such an one may be seen in the Museum of the CoUege, Phys. Series, No. 2843. t See Burns'Midwifery. -pt „ iq,a X See Tiedemann, Von den Duverneyschen Driisen des Weibs. Heidelberg, 1840.