MALE PERINEUM. 363 The posterior, containing the anus, is called the anal division (fig. 74).* The subject is to be placed in the usual position for litbotomy, with a full-sized staff in the bladder, the rectum moderately dis- tended with tow, and the scrotum raised by means of hooks. Observe that a central ridge, named the 'raphe,' extends from the anus, along the perineum, scrotum, and under surface of the penis. Between the tuberosities of the ischia and the anus are two depressions, marking out the ischio-rectal fossae, which are found immediately beneath the skin, filled with fat. In the lateral operation of lithotomy, the incision should commence an inch and a quarter above the anus, close to the left side of the raphe; it should be carried downwards and outwards for three inches, to a point midway between the tuber ischii and the anus. In the bilateral operation, the incision is semi-lunar, the horns being made on either side between the tuber ischii and the anus, equidistant from these points respectively; while the centre of the incision runs about three-quarters of an inch above the anus. At the anus the skin becomes finer and more deli- Anal glands. J. n • 11 cate, forming a gradual transition towards mucous membrane : during life it is drawn into wrinkles by the permanent contraction of the cutaneous sphincter. Moreover, the skin at the margin of the anus is richly provided with minute glands,t which secrete an unctuous substance to facilitate the passage of the faeces. When this secretion becomes defective or vitiated, the anal cutaneous folds are apt to become excoriated, chapped, or fissured; and then defecation becomes exceedingly painful. The skin should be reflected, by making an incision Subcutaneous ^^^^^ ^-^^ ^^^^^ margin of the anus to the coccyx. Two others must be made on each side at right * It is well to bear in mind, that the dimensions of the lower outlet of the pelvis are apt to vary in different subjects, and the lithotomist must modify his incisions accordingly. t These glands are the analogues of the anal glands in some animals, e.g. the dog and the beaver. They are found not only about the anus, but also in the subcutaneous tissue of the perineum, a fact for the demonstration of which we are indebted to Professor Quekett. They are large enough to be seen with the naked eye.