263 DISSECTION or THE PALM OE THE HAND, the ulnar nerve; the two outer by the third and fourth digital branches of the median. Let us now proceed to the muscles composing the ball of the thumb and the little finger. The dissection of them requires con- siderable care. Muscles of the '^^^ great strength of the muscles of the ball of the ball of the thumb (unde nomen pollicis), is one of the dis- thumb. tinguishing features of the human hand. This strength is necessary in order to oppose that of all the fingers. In addition to its strength, the thumb enjoys perfect mobility. It has no less than eight muscles to work it:—namely, an abductor, an opponens, two flexors, three extensors, and an adductor. Take first the muscles of the ball. This is the most superficial. It is a thin, flat muscle, pol'licL"^ arises from the os scaphoides and the annular ligament; and is inserted by a flat tendon into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Its action is to draw the thumb away from the fingers. Eeflect it from its insertion to expose the following— Hosor ossis -^^^^ muscle arises from the os trapezium and the metacarpi annular ligament, and is inserted into the whole length opponens! ^^^^ metacarpal bone of the thumb. The action of this powerful muscle is to oppose the thumb to all the fingers. Reflect it from its insertion, to expose the following— , . This muscle has two origins ; one from the annular 1.6X01? DrGVlS 1 • poUicis. ligament and os magnum, the other from the os trapezoides, os magnum, and the base of the third metacarpal bone. It is inserted by two strong tendons into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb ; the superficial tendon being connected with the abductor pollicis, and the deep one with the adductor pollicis. A sesamoid bone is found in each of the tendons. The tendons of insertion of this muscle are separated by the long flexor tendon of the thumb and the arteria magna pollicis. Its action is to bend the first phalanx of the thumb. Adductor This muscle arises from the palmar aspect of the pollicis. shaft of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger; its