379 SIDE VIEAV or THE PELVIC VISCERA. forming, at the same time, a slieatli for the pudic vessels and nerve. It is attached to the arch of the pubes, and to the tuber- osities of the ischia. From this fascia is derived the anal fascia Avhich lines the lower surface of the levator ani, and is subse- quently lost upon the rectum. The recto-vesical fascia descends on the upper or internal sur- face of the levator ani to the bladder and prostate. From the pubes it is reflected over the prostate and the neck of the bladder, to form, on either side of the symphysis, two well-marked bands— the anterior true ligaments of the bladder. From the side of the pelvis it is reflected on to the side of the bladder, constituting the lateral true ligaments of the bladder, and incloses the prostate and the vesical plexus of veins. A prolongation from this liga- ment incloses the vesicula seminalis, and then passes between the bladder and the rectum, to join its fellow from the opposite sides. The pelvic viscera are so surrounded by veins and POSITION OF loose areolar tissue, that he who dissects them for the THE PELVIC first time will find a difficulty in discovering their THE M^c^ definite boundaries. The rectum runs at the back of the pelvis. The bladder lies in front of the rectum, immediately behind the symphysis pubis. At the neck of the bladder is the prostate gland through which the urethra passes. In the cellular tissue, between the bladder and the rectum, there is, on each side, a convoluted tube called the ' vesicula seminalis ;' and on the inner side of each vesicula, is the seminal duct or vas deferens. Before describing these parts in detail, it is necessary to say a few words about the large tortuous veins which surround them. ^, Beneath the pelvic fascia about the prostate and the iIgxus of veins about ^^^^^ ^he bladder, are large and tortuous veins, which neckof"^"*^ form the prostatic and the vesical plexuses. They bladder. empty themselves into the internal iliac. In early life they are not much developed, but as puberty ap- proaches, they gradually increase in size; and one not familiar with the anatomy of these parts would hardly credit the volume which they sometimes attain in old persons. They communicate