DISSECTION or THE BIIAIN. 518 continuous with the anterior columns of the spinal cord, and consist therefore of motor fibres. They may be traced through the pons into the lower part of the crura cerebri. By gently sepa- rating the pyramids about an inch below the pons, you observe that their fibres on each side decussate (fig. 120). This is the ex- planation of ' cross paralysis;' i. e. when one side of the brain is injured, the loss of motor power is manifested on the opposite side of the body.* The decussation, consisting of three or four bundles of fibres on each side, takes place only between the inner fibres of the pyramid; the outer fibres run straight on without crossing over. These decussating fibres are prolongations of the deep fibres of the lateral columns of the cord, which here come forward to the sur- face, pushing aside the proper anterior columns. The olivary bodies are two oval eminences situated on the outer side of the anterior pyramids, and separated from the pons by a deep groove. They consist, externally, of white substance; when cut into, their interior presents a zigzag line of grey matter, called, from its shape, ' corpus dentatum.' This grey line forms a circuit, interrupted only on the upper and inner side, so that it nearly isolates the white matter in its centre. Arching round its lowe part some white fibres may be ohserved: these constitute the arciforr)i fibres of Rolando. The restiform bodies are situated on the outer side of and behind the olives. They are the continuations upwards of the posterior columns of the cord, and as they ascend, diverge from each other and pass into the cerebelhim, constituting its inferior crura (p. 519). In consequence of this divergence, the grey matter in the interior of the medulla oblongata is exposed; so that the floor of the fourth ventricle (of which the restiform bodies assist in forming the lateral boundaries) is grey. The restiform bodies consist partly of longitudinal white fibres derived from the posterior and lateral columns of the cord ; partly of grey matter contained * The phenomenon of ' cross paralysis' of sensation is explained by the fact made out by Brown Sequard, that the paths of sensory impressions cross each other in the grey matter of the cord.