DISSECTION OP THE HEART. 135 the anterioi- border of the fossa ovalis, is seen a thin fold of the lining membrane of the heart: it is the remains of what was, in foetal life, the Eustachian * valve. The direction of this valve is such that it directs the current of blood from the inferior cava towards the foramen ovale. It is a valve of considerable size in the foetus, and contains a few muscular fibres; but after birth it diminishes, being no longer required. To the left of the Eustachian valve, that is, between its remains and the auriculo-ventricular opening, is the orifice of the coronary vein; it is covered by a semicircular valve, called ' valvula The- hesii; to prevent regurgitation of the blood during the auricular contraction. Here and there upon the posterior wall of the auricle may be observed minute openings called 'foramina Thehesii:' they are the orifices of small veins returning blood from the sub- stance of the heart. Lastly, to the left, and rather in front of the orifice of the vena cava inferior, is the auriculo-ventricular opening. It is oval in form, and will admit the passage of three fingers. This forms the right border and about two-thirds of Sfle! ^^^^^ surface of the heart. To examine its interior, a triangular flap should be raised from its anterior wall. The apex of this flap should be below : one cut along the right edge of the ventricle, the other along the line of the ventricular septum. Observe that the wall of the ventricle is much thicker than that of the auricle. The cavity of the ventricle is conical, with its base upwards and to the right. From its walls project bands of muscular fibres (columnse carneae) of various length and thickness, which cross each other in every direction; this muscular network is generally filled with coagulated blood. Of these columnse carnese there are three kinds : one stands out in relief from the ventricle; another is attached to the ventricle by their extremities only, the intermediate portion being free; a third, and by far the most important set, called ' musculi papillares,' is fixed by one extremity to the wall of the ventricle, while the other extremity gives attachment to the fine tendinous cords {cordw tenchneoi) which regulate the action of the tricuspid valve. The ♦ Eustachius, Libell. de vena sine pari.