461 PKONT OIT TIIK THIGH. drawincr aside the inner border of the sartorius, we discover the artery inclosed in its sheath with the vein. An opening should be made into the sheath sufficient to admit the passage of the aueurismal needle, which should be turned round the artery from within outwards. The nerves to be avoided are—the long saphenous, which runs along the outer side of the artery, and the cutaneous nerves which cross obliquely over it. Having already traced the superficial branches of the femoral artery in the groin, namely, the superficial epigastric, pudic, and circumflexa ilii (p. 438), we pass on now to the profunda. Profunda profunda is the chief branch of the femoral, and artery and is the proper nutrient artery of the thigh. It arises brancheb. fj-Qm the Outer and back part of the femoral, about one and a half or two inches below the crural arch, and runs down behind the femoral till it reaches the tendon of the adductor longus; here the profunda passes behind the adductor, and is finally lost in the hamstring muscles. In most subjects, the profunda, for a short distance after its origin, lies rather on the outer side of the femoral and on a deeper plane, over the iliacus muscle: in this situation it might be mistaken for the femoral itself—indeed, such an error has actually occurred in practice. It soon, however, gets behind the femoral, and lies upon the adductor brevis and magnus; it is separated from the femoral artery at first, by their corresponding veins; lower down, by the adductor longus.* The branches of the profunda generally arise in the following- order :—1, the internal circumflex; 2, the external circumflex ; 3, the perforating. The internal circumflex is given off from the inner part of the profunda, and then sinks deeply into the thigh, between the psoas and pectineus. At the lower border of the obturator externus it terminates in two divisions : one, which supplies the muscles in its neighbourhood, namely, the pectineus, psoas, adductors, gracilis, * The point at which the profunda is given off below the crural arch varies very much even in the two limbs of the same body. We have measured it in 19 bodies, or 38 femoral arteries. It varied from ^ to 3 inches. In 22 cases the profunda came off between 1| aud 2 inches; in 9 this distance was exceeded; in 7 this distance was less.