FllONT OP THE THIGH. 454 are to co-operate in balancing tlie pelvis steadily on the thigh, as in standing on one leg ; and (if the fixed point be reversed) to draw together or adduct the thighs. They are five in number, and are supplied, with one exception—the pectineus—by the same nerve- namely, the obturator. They are termed, respectively, the gracilis, adductor longus, pectineus, adductor brevis, and adductor magnus. The innermost is the gracilis; to clean it properly, it should be stretched by separating one thigh from the other. This long, flat muscle arises by a broad, ribbon-like tendon from the pubes close to the symphysis, and from the border of the pubic arch nearly as low as the tuber ischii. It descends almost perpendicularly on the inner aide of the thigh, and terminates in a tendon which subsequently spreads out, and is inserted into the inner side of the tibia below the tubercle, im- mediately behind the sartorius. Both tendons play over the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, and there is a bursa common to both. This muscle assists in fixing the pelvis, and in adducting the thigh ; it also helps to bend the knee. Its nerve comes from the anterior division of the obturator. This muscle lies external to the gracilis, and arises Adductor ^ Yown^i tendon from the front of the pubes below the crest. As it descends, it becomes broader, and is inserted into the middle third of the linea aspera of the femur. It forms with the sartorius a triangular space called Scarpa's triangle (p. 452). It is supplied by the anterior division of the obturator rpj^-g muscle lies on the same plane, but external to Pectineus. adductor longus. It arises from the triangular surface of the pubes in front of the linea ilio-pectinea, and is inserted into the ridge leading from the lesser trochanter to_ the linea aspera. Its nerve comes from the anterior crural, sometimes also from the obturator (p. 358). _ By separating the contiguous borders of the pectineus and the adductor longus, the adductor brevis is exposed with the anterior division of the obturator nerve lying upon it. To obtam a com- plete view of them, the pectineus and adductor longus must be