468 FRONT OF THE LEG. of the tibia: it is the strain of this ligament which occasions the pain in sprains of the ankle. You will see presently that it makes a beautiful pulley for the extensor longus digitorum. b. The external extends from the outer malleolus to the os calcis, and confines the tendons of the peronei muscles, which draw the foot outwards. c. The internal extends from the inner malleolus to the os calcis, and binds down the flexor tendons of the foot and toes. Remove the fascia, leaving enough of the annular ligaments to retain the tendons in their places. The muscles on the front of the leg are:—1, the the front of tibialis anticus; 2, the extensor communis digitorum the leg. peroneus tertius ; 3, the extensor proprius pollicis. The tibialis anticus arises from the external tuberosity Tibialis ^-^^ upper two-thirds of the outer side of the tibia, an iciis. ^^^^ interosseous membrane, and from the fascia which covers it. About the lower third of the leg the fibres ter- minate on a strong flat tendon, which descends obliquely over the front of the ankle to the inner side of the foot; here it becomes a little broader, and is inserted into the internal cuneiform bone and the tarsal end of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The sy- novial membrane, which lines the sheath of the tendon beneath the annular ligament, accompanies it to within an inch of its in- sertion ; consequently it is opened when the tendon is divided for club-foot. The action of this muscle is to draw the foot upwards and inwards.* When the foot is the fixed point, it assists in balancing the body at the ankle. Its nerve comes from the peroneal. This muscle lies along the fibular side of the pre- fotmmis ceding. It arises from the head of the tibia, from the digitorum. ^^ppgr three-fourths of the fibula, from the interosseous membrane, and the fascia. Its fibres terminate in a penniform manner upon a long tendon, situated on the inner side of the muscle: this tendon descends in front of the ankle and divides * It is generaUy necessary to divide this tendon in distortion of the foot inwards, called ' talipes yams.'