STRUCTURE OF THE STOMACH. 431 them.* The cohimns lie in the stroma of the cortex, which con- tains oval micleated cells, large fat globules, and a number of minute yellowish granules. The columns are stated by some to be tubes having a distinct L'ning membrane; by others, to be closed vesicles; and by others to be cavities in the cortical por- tion. Small arteries are abundantly supplied to the cortex, and dip down between the columns. The medullary part varies in colour according to the amount of blood contained in it, being in some of a dark brown colom-, in others nearly white. It consists of a plexus of minute veins, among which are numerous cells, some of whch appear branched.f The stroma is composed of areolar tissue, which forms a delicate network throughout the central part. Of late years the minute structure and functions of the renal capsules have been much investigated, in consequence of the dis- covery, made by Dr. Addison, of the close relation which exists between certain diseases in these bodies and a brown discoloration of the skm. Their precise function is still unknown. Stomach and alimentary canal is composed of four coats; a intestines. serous, a muscular, a submucous, and a mucous. First is the serous or peritoneal coat, described at p. 332' Secondly, under the serous is a muscular coat, upon which the chief strength of the canal depends. It consists of two distinct strata of fibres; the outer stratum is longitudinal, the inner cir- cular. This arrangement not only makes the bowel stronger but regulates its peristaltic action; for the longitudinal fibres.^by their contraction, tend to shorten and straighten the tube, while the circular fibres contract upon and propel its contents to greater ad- vantage. Connecting this coat and the mucous, is a layer of areolar tissue called the submucous coat, in which the arteries break up before entering the mucous membrane. The mucous is the most complicated of all the coats, for it presents different characters CapsnLVTn sf Blh",''- ^"^'^--^^^-I^" - 'The Anatomy of the Supra-renal ca^smes, in bt. Bartholomew s Hosp. Reports, vol. i. 1865 t Consult ■ A Physiological Essay on the Thymus Gland,' by Sin>on, London, 1845