BIbSECTION OF THE NOSE. 198 the outer wall of the nose. By raising the lower turbinated bone, Ave observe, towards the front of the meatus, the tenniuatioa of the nasal duct, through Avhich the tears pass down from the lachr3'mal sac into the nose. This sac and duct we can now con- veniently examine. Lachrymal "^^^^ passage through which the tears are sac and conveyed from the lachrymal ducts into the nose (p. 70). uasalduct. i^j^^^ lachrymal sac occxipies the groove on the nasal side of the orbit, formed by the lachrymal and superior maxillary bones. The upper end is round and closed; the lower gradually contracts into the nasal duct, and opens into the inferior meatus. The sac is composed of a strong fibrous membrane, which adheres veiy closely to the bone, and is lined by mucous membrane. Its front siirface is covered by the tendo oculi and the fascia proceed- ing from it. The nasal duct is from half to three quarters of an inch in length, and is directed downwards and backwards. Its termina- tion is guarded by a valvular fold of mucous membrane ; conse- quently, when air is blown into the nasal passages while the nostrils are closed, the lachrymal sac does not become distended. The lachrymal sac and the nasal duct are lined with ciliated epi- thelium and the canaliculi with the squamous variety. Behind the inferior turbinated bone is the opening of the Eustachian tube (p. 159). Into this, as well as into the nasal duct, we ought to practice the introduction of a probe. The chief diffi- culty is to prevent the probe from slipping into the cul-de-sac between the tube and the back of the pharynx. This membrane lines the cavities of the nose and Mucous or . . J jT. Schneiderian the air-cells communicatmg with it, ana aaneres very membrane * ^j.^\y to the periosteum. Its continuity may be traced into the pharynx, the various sinuses, the orbits through the nasal ducts, and into the tympana and mastoid cells through the Eustachian tubes. Observe that at the lower border of the turbi- nated bones it is disposed in thick and looije folds. The mem- brane varies in thickness and vascularity in different parts of the * Schneider, De catarrhis. Wittenberg, 1660.