311 ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. The skin of the abdomen is supplied with nerves after nelTe"s°°"^ the same plan as the chest; namely, by lateral and anterior branches derived from the lower intercostal nerves. a. The lateral cutaneous nerves come out between the digita- tions of the external oblique muscle, in company with small arteries, and divide into anterior and posterior branches; the anterior supply the skin as far as the rectus; the posterior, the skin ■over the latissimus dorsi. Observe, that the lateral branch of the twelfth dorsal nerve is larger than the others, and that it passes over the crest of the ilium to the skin of the buttock. The cor- responding branch of the first lumbar has a similar distribution. h. The anterior cutaneous nerves come with small arteries through the sheath of the rectus. They are not only smaller than the lateral nerves, but their number and place of exit is less regular. That which comes throiigh the external abdominal ring (ilio-inguinal), as well as that which comes through the wall ol" the abdomen just above it (the hypogastric branch of the ilio- hypogastric), are derived from the first lumbar nerve. These, however, are but repetitions of the others, and supply the skin of the groin and scrotum in the male, and the labium pudendi of the female.* The deep layer of the superficial fascia should now be removed from the external oblique, by commencing at the fleshy portion of the muscle, and working in the course of ^its fibres. Care must be taken not to remove any of its aponeurosis, which is very thin. The digitations of this muscle with the serratus magnus and latis- simus dorsi must also be made out. Muscles of The abdominal muscles, three on each side, are ntlwatr'' named, after the direction of their fibres, the ' external oblique,' ' internal oblique,' and 'transversalis.' They terminate in front in strong aponeuroses arranged so as to form a sheath for a broad muscle, called the * A third small nerve, namely, the genital branch of the genito-erural, comes through the external ring. It lies behind the cord close to the outer pillar.