SUBMAXILLARY KEGION. 43 Near the anterior border of the hyo-glossus, it communicates with the gustatory nerve. (Fig. 9.) The hypoglossal at its origin is purely a motor nerve. But after leavino- the skull, it receives communications from the first two cervical nerves. These communications are important physiologi- cally for two reasons :—1. They account for the hypoglossal nerve containing sensitive fibres. 2. They contribute the greater part of the filaments of the ' descendens noni.' It is also connected with the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves at the base of the skull. Sublingual "^^^ sublingual gland lies immediately beneath the salivary mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. Its shape gland. ^ oblong, with the long axis (about an inch and a half) directed from before backwards. It rests upon the upper surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, and towards the mesial line it is in contact with the hyo-glossus and the genio-hyo-glossus. The ducts of the sublingual gland (ducts of Rivinus*) vary in number from eight to twenty. They terminate by minute open- ings behind the orifice of the submaxillary duct, along a ridge upou the floor of the mouth. The ducts of some of the lobes ter- minate in the submaxillary duct. The duct of the submaxillary gland may now be traced across the hyo-glossus, and under the gustatory nerve to the floor of the mouth. This aerve is a branch of the inferior maxillary or nTrve.*^"^^ third division of the fifth pair of cerebral nerves. It descends between the ramus of the jaw and the internal pterygoid muscle, comes forwards over the superior constrictor of the pharynx and along the upper part of the hyo-glossus, crossing at an acute angle over the duct of the submaxillaiy gland. Having reached the under part of the tongue, the nerve divides into fila- ments which supply the papillae on its anterior three-fourths. Submaxil- Look at the lower border of the gustatory nerve larygan- before it crosses the submaxillary duct: you will find a small ganglion, about the size of a pin's head. Like the other ganglia in connection with the branches of the fifth pair, * Aug. Quirin. Eivinus, de Dyspepsia. Lips. 1678.