DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. 287 Avhich traverses a distinct groove on the back of the ulna, close to the styloid process, and is inserted into the carpal end of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Below the styloid process of the ulna, the tendon passes beneath the posterior annular liga- ment, over the back of the wrist, and is here contained in a very strong fibrous canal, which is attached to the back of the cunei- form, pisiform, and unciform bones, and is lined by a continuation from the synovial membrane in the groove of the ulna. The action of this muscle is to extend the hand, and incline it towards the ulnar side. It is supplied by the posterior interosseous nerve. In pronation of the forearm, the lower end of the ulna projects between the tendons of the extensor carpi ulnaris and the extensor minimi digiti. A subcutaneous bursa is sometimes found above the bone in this situation. Anconeus "^^'^^ smaU triangular muscle is situated at the outer and back part of the elbow. It is covered by a strong layer of fascia, derived from the tendon of the triceps, and appears like a continuation of that muscle. It aHses tendinous from the posterior part of the external condyle of the humerus, and is inserted into the triangular surface on the upper fourth of the outer part of the ulna. Part of the under surface of the muscle is in contact with the capsule of the elbow-joint. Its action is to assist in extending the forearm. Its nerve comes from the musculo-spiral. Deep-seated expose the deep layer of muscles, detach from the muscles on external condyle, the extensor carpi radialis brevier, the foream extensor communis digitorum, the extensor minimi digiti, and the extensor corpi ulnaris; and after noticing the vessels and nerves which enter their under surface, turn them down. The deep-seated muscles, with the posterior interosseous artery and nerve, must be cleaned. The muscles exposed are: 1. The extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis. 2. Extensor primi internodii polHcis. 3. Extensor secundi internodii poUicis. 4. Extensor indicis or indicator. 5. The supinator radii brevis. They are all supplied by branches from the posterior interosseous nerve.