93 INFEKIQR MAXILLARY NERVE. lateral ligament of the jaw to the dental foramen, which it enters with the dental artery. It then nms in the canal in the diploe of the jaw below the fangs of all the teeth. It furnishes filaments which ascend through the canals in the fangs of the teeth to the pulp in their interior. Opposite the foramen mentale the mental branch is given off. Observe that the same nerve which supplies the teeth supplies the gums; hence the sympathy between them. The mylo-hyoicl branch, apparently arising from the dental, is derived from the motor root of the fifth, and may, with careful dissection, be traced to it. It leaves the dental nerve near the foramen in the jaw, and runs in a groove on the inner side of the ramus to the lower surface of the mylo-hyoid, which muscle, together with the anterior portion of the digastricus,- it supplies (p. 36). The gustatory branch descends first between the ramus of the jaw and the internal pterygoid, then for a short distance between the jaw and the superior constrictor of the pharynx. Here it lies close to the raucous membrane of the mouth near the last molar tooth of the lower jaw; and division of it here has been recom- mended to relieve pain in cancer of the tongue. The gusta- tory n. then crosses obliquely the stylo-glossus, and running along the hyo-glossus to the tongue, is distributed to the papillge of its tip and sides. Beneath the external pterygoid the gustatory nerve is joined at an acute angle by the chorda tympani (a branch of the facial). This branch emerges from the glenoid fissure, and meeting the gustatoiy, runs along the lower border of that nerve to join the submaxillary ganglion. It is eventually distributed to the lingualis muscle. Internal '^^^^ ' SO-called' ligament proceeds from the spinous lateral process of the sphenoid bone, and is attached to the StlTeTaV. j^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^ the foramen dentale. Between this ligament and the neck of the jaw we find the in- ternal maxillary artery and vein, the temporo-auriculai- nerve, the middle meningeal artery, the dental nerve and artery, and a por- tion of the parotid gland.