OlSSECTlDN OF THE EYEl 5oD The cornea consists of five layers, which are not all Structiire. cQj^poged of the same kind of tissue. The first layer is the conjunctival. This consists of several strata of epithelial cells, the superficial ones being flattened; the deeper ones, the naore numerous, being placed vertically. The second layer is about the t^Vo^^ ^^^^ thick, and consists of an extremely elastic tissue. It is perfectly structureless, and, when peeled off, has a remarkable tendency to curl up. Boiling, or the action of acids, does not render it opaque like they do the other layers of the cornea.* Very deKcate fibres pass obliquely inwards from it, and serve to connect it to the next layer. The third layer {cornea proper) consists of transparent fibrous tissue, upon which the thickness and strength of the cornea mainly depend. The fibres are arranged in layers about sixty in number, between which are branched fusiform cells, communicating freely with each other. The fourth layer is again elastic, and resembles the second layer in structure, except in being somewhat thinner. The fifth layer consists of a layer of epithelial cells, resembling those which line serous membranes.f In its healthy state, the cornea con- tains no blood vessels; they run back in loops as soon as they reach its circumference. Its nerves, which are numerous, are de- rived from the ciliary nerves, and ramify in the transparent fibrous tissue. After the removal of the sclerotic and cornea, we Choroid coat. , .-, . expose the choroid coatX—a white ring, consistmg of the ciliary ligament and ciliary muscle, which bounds its anterior parts; also the iris and ciliary processes, of which the outer cir- cumference is attached to this ring (fig. 134). The choroid is the soft and flocculent tunic of the eye, recog- * Dr. Jacob calls it ' the elastic cornea.'—Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xii. p. 503. Its use, according to Dr, Jacob, is probably to preserve the correct curve of the cornea proper. t For a detailed investigation of the structure of the cornea, see Todd and Bowman, Physiological Anatomy. X So called, because its outer flocculent surface somewhat resembles the chorion, or external investment of the ovum.