5G7 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. adhesions wliich are apt to take place, during inflammation, between the pupil and the capsule of the crystalline. Some anatomists describe the anterior chamber as lined by a serous membrane, ■which they call the membrane of the aqueous humour. A deli- cate layer of epithelium exists on the posterior surface of the cornea, but nothing like a continuous serous membrane can be demonstrated on the iris or the capsule of the lens. The anterior chamber is remarkable for the rapidity with which it absorbs and secretes, as is proved, in the one case, by the speedy removal of extravasated blood; in the other, by the rapid re-appearance of the aqueous humour after the extraction of a cataract. The vitreous humour is a transparent, ffelatinous- Vitreous humour and looking substance, which fills up nearly four-fifths of hyaloid ^\^q interior of the globe (p. 558). It consists of a membrane. n • i • i • n i r watery nmd contamed m the meshes of a cellular struc- ture, called the 'hyaloid membrane,'' from its perfect translu- cency: the cells communicate freely with each other; for, if any part of it be punctured, the humour gradually drains off. The membrane itself is so delicate, that it is difficult to obtain it sepa- rately ; but it may be rendered slightly opaque by strong spirit or diluted acids. It is of somewhat firmer consistence on the surface, so that it answers the purpose of a capsule for the vitreous humour, and is sufficiently strong to keep it in shape after the stronger tunics of the eye have been removed.* In the foetus, a branch of the retinal artery runs through the centre of the vitreous humour, and ramifies on the back of the capsule of the lens. It is lodged in a tubular canal in the hyaloid membrane, termed the hyaloid canal; but this entirely disappears in the adult. The vitreous humour presents in front a deep depression, in * The cells of the vitreous humour may sometimes be demonstrated by freezing the eye and then diyiding it. The figure and size of the cells are shown by the por- tions of ice which they contain. Again, by macerating the eye in chromic acid, it is found that the vitreous humour is intersected by 180 delicate partitions, disposed like those in the pulp of an orange—with this difference, however, that the partitions do not quite reach the centre, but leave a cylindrical space in the axis of the humoui-. Up this space the central artery runs in the foetus.