fkojS't of the leg. 471 c. The malleolar branches, external and internal, ramify over the ankle, and supply the joint, the articular ends of the bones, and the sheaths of the tendons around them. Extensor ^'^^^ muscle is situated on the top of the foot, beneath brevis digi- the long extensor tendons of the toes. It arises from tonim. ^j^g outer part of the os calcis, and from the ligaments uniting this bone to the astragalus. The fibres run obliquely over the foot, and terminate on four tendons, which pass forwards to the four inner toes. The innermost one is inserted by an ex- panded tendon into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe; the others join the fibular side of the long extensor tendons to be inserted into the ungual phalanx. The tendon to the great toe crosses over the dorsal artery of the foot. It is supplied by a branch of the anterior tibial nerve. Dorsal '^'^^^ artery, the continuation of the anterior tibial, th Tof ^"^^^^ instep to the interval between the first ^ ° ■ and second metatarsal bones, where it sinks into the sole and joins the deep plantar arch. On the top of the foot it runs along the outer side of the extensor proprius pollicis, and before it dips down into the sole, is crossed by the short extensor tendon of the great toe. The dorsal artery gives off the following branches: — a. The tarsal branch arises near the scaphoid bone, passes beneath the extensor brevis digitorum towards the outside of the foot, supplies the bones and joints of the tarsus, and inosculates with the arteries in the sole. b. The metatarsal branch generally runs towards the outside of the foot, near the bases of the metatarsal bones, and gives off the three outer interosseous arteries. These pass forwards over the corresponding interosseous muscles, supply them, and then sub- divide to supply the opposite sides of the upper surface of the toes. They communicate by perforating branches with the plantar arteries. c. The dorsalis hallucis is, strictly speaking, the artery of the first interosseous space. It comes from the dorsal artery just before this smks into the sole, and runs forwards to supply both sides of the great toe and the inner side of the second toe.