123 (ESOPHAGUS. through the aortic opening of the diaphragm into the chest, and runs up the posterior mediastinum along the right side of the aorta. Near the third dorsal vertebra^ it passes under the oeso- phagus, and ascends on the left side of this tube, between it and the left subclavian artery, as high as the seventh cervical vertebra, where it describes a curve with the convexity upwards, and opens in front of the scalenus anticus into the back part of the confluence of the left internal jugular and subclavian veins. The orifice of the duct is guarded by two valves which permit fluid to pass from the duct into the vein, but not vice versa. Valves, disposed like those in the venous system, are placed at short intervals along the duct, so that its contents can only pass upwards. The duct is not much larger than a crow-quill; its walls are thin and transparent.^ The cahbre of the duct varies in size in different parts of its course ; it is large at the commencement, diminishes in the middle, and again enlarges towards the termination. ^ The ' oesophagus ' is that part of the alimentary canal (Esophagus. .? ^ -, r , , . which conveys the lood from the pharynx to the stomach. It commences about the fifth cervical vertebra, nearly opposite the cricoid cartilage; runs down first to the right side of the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta, then through the posterior media- stinum in front of the descending aorta, and passes through a special opening in the diaphragm to the stomach. It is from nine to ten inches long. Its course is not exactly vertical: in the neck, it lies to the left of the trachea; in the chest, i.e. about the fourth dorsal vertebi-a, it inclines towards the right side, to make way for the aorta; but it again inclines to the left before it perforates the diaphragm. The oesophagus, in the first part of its course, rests upon the longus colli muscle, then upon the third, fourth, and fifth inter- * It is right to state that the thoracic duct varies in size in different individuals. I have seen it of all sizes intermediate between a crow-quill and a goose-quill. It may divide in its course into two branches, which subsequently reunite; instead of one, there may bo several terminal orifices. Instances have been observed in which the duct has terminated on the right instead of the left side (Fleischman, Leichen- oeffnungon, 1815). It has been seen to terminate in the vena azygos (Miiller's Archives,