DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. 195 from the meatus internus for a short distance outwardly, then makes a sudden bend backwards along the inner wall of the tym- panum above the fenestra ovalis, and, lastly, curving downwards at the back of the tympanum, it leaves the skull at the stylo-mastoid foramen. Its branches in the temporal bone are:— a. A communication between the facial and the auditory nerve at the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus. h. The great 'petrosal nerve (vidian), which runs to the spheno- palatine ganglion (p. 192). c. The lesser petrosal nerve, which runs to the otic ganglion. d. Chorda tympani.—This nerve arises from the facial about Ith of an inch before its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen, ascends for a short distance in a bony canal at the back of the tympanum, and enters that cavity below the pyramid and close to the mem- brana tympani. It then runs forwards along the tympanum, across the handle of the malleus, to the fissura Griaseri, through which it emerges at the base of the skull, and joining the gustatory nerve, tinally proceeds to the submaxillary ganglion, and ends in the tongue. In its passage through the aqueductus Fallopii branches are distributed to the stapedius and laxator tympani muscles. DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. Presuming that the dissector is familiar with the bones com- posing the skeleton of the nose, we shall now describe, 1. The nasal cartilages ; 2, The general figure and arrangement of the nasal cavities; 3. The membrane which lines them; and, lastly, the distribution of the olfactory nerves. Cartila es ^^^^^^ °^ fibro-cartilage on either side assist in o{ the nil. forming the framework of the external nose ; and one in the centre completes the septum between the nasal fossae. There are two lateral cartilages, an upper and a lower. The upper, triangular in shape, is connected, superiorly, to the maro-in of the nasal and superior maxillary bones, anteriorly, to the carti- lage of the septum, and inferiorly, to the lower cartilage by means