322 PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. In a surgical point of view this is one of the most StTous'lff important arteries in the body. It arises from the ex- theepigus- ternal iliac, just before this vessel passes under the tnc artery. ^^^^^ ascends inwards between the fascia transversalis and the peritoneum, forms a gentle curve round the inner side of the internal abdominal ring, and consequently on the inner side of the spermatic cord, and then enters the rectus muscle, in ^yhich it is gradually lost. The artery is accompanied by two veins, of which the larger is constantly found on the inner side of it. They terminate by a single trunk in the iliac vein. Of the branches of the epigastric artery the most Jfthfepi- important is the 'pubic: It runs inwards, behind the gastric. crural arch, towards the pubes, and derives its chief practical interest from the fact that it is liable to be wounded in dividing the stricture in femoral hernia.* But its size varies m different subjects, and is sometimes so small as to escape observa- tion. The second branch is the ' cremasteric: It supplies the coverings of the cord, and chiefly the cremaster muscle. After giving off other unnamed muscular branches, the main trunk ter- minates in the rectus by'minute inosculations with the internal mammary. . Such is an outline of the anatomy of the parts concerned m inguinal hernia. The description applies equally to the female, provided the round ligament be substituted for the spermatic cord. Of course the inguinal canal is proportionably smaller, and there is no cremaster. , . When a piece of intestine escapes through the inner SZrstS ring, along the inguinal canal with the cord, and pro- kinds of in- trudes through the outer ring, it is called an external* gninal hernia. ^j^^^^^ inguinal hemia. If the intestine stop in the * There is a preparation (No. 83, Ser. 17) in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hos- ™tal qxute to the point. The patient had profuse heemorrhage, which commenced five hours after the operation. He died with peritonitis. I A hLia is Bometimes called external or internal, according o the relationship of thtprotniBion to the epigastxic arteiy; thus, an ohlique mguinal hernia which first protX toough the inner ring is caUed an external hernia, and v.c versa.