61 BRACHIAL PLEXUS OF NKKV^ES: mimications between the superior and inferior thyroid : 2. By the communication between the two vertebral: 3. By the communi- cations between the internal mammary and the intercostals and the epigastric: 4. By the communications between the thoracic branches of the axillary, and the intercostal branches of the aorta: 5. By the communications between the superior intercostal and the aortic intercostal. These inosculations are shown in the diagram, p. 60. Again, if the subclavian were tied in the third part of its course, the circulation would be carried on by the communications :—1. Between the supra-scapular and dorsalis scapulae (branch of sub- scapular): 2. Between the posterior scapular and the subscapular: 3. Between the long and short thoracic on the one hand, and the internal mammary and aortic intercostals on the other. The subclavian vein does not form an arch like the Subclavian . . , vein. artery, but proceeds in a nearly straight line over the first rib to join the internal jugular. Throughout its whole course the vein is situated on a plane anterior to and a little lower than the artery, from which it is separated by the scalenus anticus, the phrenic and pneumogastric nerves. It has a valve just before its junction with the internal jugular. It receives the anterior jugular, external jugular, and through it the supra- scapular and posterior-scapular veins. Brachial '^^^ large nerves forming the plexus which supplies plexus the upper' extremity are the anterior divisions of the of nerves. £q^j, Iq-^qj. cervical and the first dorsal. Emerging from the intervertebral foramina they appear between the anterior and middle scalene muscles, and pass with the subclavian artery into the axilla. To this bundle of nerves the name 'plexus ' is given, on account of their mutual communications. The plexus at its root is wide, and situated higher than the subclavian artery, and nearly on the same plane ; but as the plexus descends beneath the clavicle its component nerves converge, and in the axilla, com- pletely surround the artery. The plexus is crossed superficially by the omo-hyoid muscle, and by the supra-scapular and posterior scapular arteries.