MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 207 Obliqnus This arises from the spine of the second vertebra, inferior. ^nserted into the transverse process of the first. Its action is to rotate the first upon the second vertebra • in other words, to turn the head round. This muscle arises from the transverse process of the s^ipS ^^^^ vertebra, and ascending obliquely inwards is in- serted in the interval between the curved ridges of the occiput. Its action is to draw the occiput towards the spine. Observe that the obliqui and recti muscles of one side form the sides of a triangle, in which we find the branches of the suboccipital or first cervical nerve, the vertebral artery, and the arch of the atlas. Eectascapi- ^^'^ muscle extends between the transverse tis lateraUs. process of the first vertebra and the eminentia juqu- laris of the occiput; but since this eminence is the transverse process of the occipital vertebra, the muscle must be considered as an intertransverse one. Nerves of posterior branches of the spinal nerves supply the back. the muscles and skin of the back. They pass backwards between the transverse processes of the vertebra, and divide into external and internal branches. The general'plan upon which these nerves are arranged is the same throughout the whole length of the spine; but since there are certain peculiarities deservmg of notice in particular situations, we must examine each region separately. Ceryical The posterior division of the first cervical nerve (the region. Suboccipital) passes between the arch of the atlas and the vertebral artery, and divides into branches which supply the recti and obHqui muscles concerned in the movement of the head upon the first two vertebras. It sometimes gives off a cutaneous branch which accompanies the occipital artery, and is distributed to the skin of the back of the scalp. The posterior branch (the great occipital) of the second cervical nerve is the largest of the series, and emerges between the arches ot the atlas and axis. It turns upwards beneath the inferior obhque muscles, passes through the complexus, and runs with the occipital artery to the back of the scalp.