106 BKACHIO-CEPHALIC VEINS. large vessels, the phrenic nerves, and the bifurcation of the trachea. Before we can display the brachio-cephalic veins, we must remove a layer of the deep cervical fascia, which descends over them from the neck, and is lost upon the pericardium. Their coats are closely connected to this fascia; and its chief use appears to be to keep the veins always open for the free return of blood to the heart. Brachio- "^^^ right and left brachio-cephalic (innominate) cephalic veins are formed, near the sternal end of the clavicle, veins. ^jjg confluence of the internal jugular and subclavian. They differ in their course and relations, and must, therefore, be described separately. The left bracJiio-cephalic vein passes obliquely behind the first bone of the sternum towards the right side, to join the vena cava superior. It is about two inches and a half in length, and its direction inclines a little downwards. It crosses over the trachea and the origins of the three primary branches of the arch of the aorta. We are reminded of this fact in some cases of aneurism of these vessels; for what happens ? The vein becomes compressed between the aneurism and the sternum; hence the swelling and venous congestion of the parts from which it returns the blood; namely, of the left arm and left side of the neck. The upper border of the vein lies not far from the upper border of the sternum; in some instances it lies even higher, and I have seen it crossing in front of the trachea a full inch above the sternum. This occasional deviation should be borne in mind in the perform- ance of tracheotomy. The right hrachio-ce'plialiG vein descends nearly vertically to join the superior vena cava, opposite the first intercostal space. It is about one and a half inch in length, and is situated about one inch from the mesial line of the sternum. On its left side, but on a posterior plane, runs the arteria innominata; on its right side is the pleura. Between the vein and the pleura is the phrenic nerve. The brachio-cephalic veins are not provided with valves. The veins which empty themselves into the right and left brachio- cephalic are as follow:—