DISSECTION OF XnE HEART. 140 are also connected to the heart by the serous layer of the peri- cardium, and by a continuation of the lining membrane (endo- cardium) of the ventricle. The heart is supplied with blood by the two coronary SerieT^ arteries, a right or posterior, and a left or anterior, ai enes. ^^^^ ^^.^^ ^^^^ ^^^^^ above the semilunar valves, and at such a distance as always to admit the passage of blood : both run in the furrows between the ventricles and auricles: both are accompanied by branches of the coronary vein, and by the cardiac nerves. The anterior, or left coronary artery, the smaller of the two, arises from the left side of the aorta. It appears on the left of the pulmonary artery, and then runs down the inter-ventricular furrow on the anterior surface of the heart to the apex, where it inosculates with the posterior coronary. In this course, its prin- cipal branch turns to the left, along the furrow between the left ventricle and auricle, and then communicates at the back of the heart with a branch of the posterior coronary. The posterior or right coronary artery arises from the right side of the aorta, and passes down between the pulmonary artery and the appendix of the right auricle. It turns to the right along the furrow between the right ventricle and auricle to the back of the heart, whence it inosculates with the horizontal branch of the left coronary. Besides this, it sends a branch down the inter- ventricular furrow at the back of the heart to the apex, where it communicates with the left coronary. Thus the coronary arteries form two circles about the heart: the one, horizontal, runs round the base of the heart, in the furrow between the auricles and ventricles. The other, perpen- dicular, runs in the furrow between the ventricles. The veins corresponding to the coronary arteries Coronary terminate in a single trunk—'the coronary sinus'— which opens into the right auricle between the remains of the Eustachian valve and the auriculo-ventricular opening. The orifice of the vein is guarded by a valve, to prevent regurgitation of the blood.