201 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. a sheet-like aponeurosis which makes up nearly half the muscle: the fibres run obliquely downwards and outwards, and are inserted by fleshy slips into the second, third, fourth, and sometimes the fifth ribs beyond their angles. Its action is to raise these ribs, and therefore to assist in inspiration. Serratus ™^ muscle is situated beneath the latissimus dorsi. posticus It arises from the strong aponeurosis called ' vertebral infenor. aponeurosis; opposite the two last dorsal and two upper lumbar vertebrae. It ascends obliquely outwards, and is inserted by fleshy slips into the four lower ribs, external 'to their angles. The tendency of its action is to pull down these ribs, and therefore to assist in expiration. Vertebral ^^^^^ shining aponeurosis which covers the aponei^osis. erector spinsB is called ' vertebral aponeurosis.' It is attached to the crest of the ilium, to the spines of the lower dorsal, all the lumbar, and sacral vertebrae. Its use is, not only to form a sheath for the erector spinfe, but to give origin to the latissimus dorsi, the serratus posticus inferior, the internal oblique and transverse muscles of the abdomen. If you make a vertical incision through it and reflect it, you will see that on the outer side of the erector spina? it is inseparably connected with the tendinous attachments of the internal oblique and transversalis to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebree. The serratus posticus superior must now be reflected from its origin, and turned outwards to expose the following muscle. Splenius. ^ '"'■'^'^ «Pi^es of the five or six upper dorsal and the last cervical vertebra, and from the lower half of the ligamentum nuchse. The fibres ascend and divide mto two portions, named, according to their respective insertions sptemus capitis and splenius colli. ' a. The splenius capitis is inserted into the mastoid process, and the superior curved ridge of the occipital bone beneath the sterno- mastoid. h. The splenius colli is inserted by tendinous slips into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the three upper cervical vertebrse.