LIGAMENTS OJT THE CLAVICLE. 295 broad attachment to the upper border of each clavicle. Between the clavicles it is more or less attached to the sternum, so that it forms a curve with the concavity upwards. The three ligaments just described are so closely connected, that, collectively, they form a complete fibrous capsule of great strength for the joint. A ligament, called the costo-clavicular or rhomboid, connects the clavicle to the cartilage of the first rib. It ascends from the cartilage of the rib to a rough surface beneath the sternal end of the clavicle. Its use is to limit the elevation of the clavicle. There is such constant movement between the clavicle and the cartilage of the first rib, that a well-marked bursa is commonly found between them. Interarticular Jihro-cartilage.—To see this, cut through the rhomboid, the anterior and posterior ligaments of the joint and raise the clavicle. It is nearly circular in form, and thicker at the circumference than the centre, in which there is sometimes a perforation. Inferiorly, it is attached to the cartilage of the first rib, close to the sternum; superiorly, to the upper part of the clavicle and the inter-clavicular ligament. Its circumference is mseparably connected with the fibrous capsule of the joint The joint is provided with two synovial membranes: one between the articular surface of the sternum and the inner surface of the fibro-cartilage; the other, between the articular surface of the clavicle and the outer surface of the fibro-cartilage. This interarticular fibro-cartilage is a structure hicrhly elastic without admitting of any stretching. It equalises pressure, pre- vents shocks and also acts as a ligament, preventing the clavicle trom being driven inwards towards the mesial line Obsei-ve the relative form of the cartilaginous surfaces of the bones: that of the sternum is slightly concave in the transverse and convex m the antero-posterior direction; that of the clavicle is the reverse. The form of the articular surfaces and the ligaments of a joint IZl hi'''V^'^. understand the movements of which it as capable. The clavicle can move upon the sternum in a direction