227 DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. first part of its course is covered by the pectoraJis major and the costo-coracoid sheath; and is crossed by the cephalic vein. On the inner side is the axillary vein; on the outer, the brachial plexus of nerves; and behind it, is the first intercostal space and the second digitation of the serratus magnus. In the second. part, it lies behind the pectoralis minor; on its inner side is the axillary vein, separated however from the artery by the brachial plexus, which here surrounds the artery. The artery rests upon loose cellular tissue. In the third part, i.e. below the pectoralis minor, the artery lies upon the subscapularis, and then upon the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major. On the outer side is the coraco-brachialis; on its inner side, the axillary vein. The brachial plexus here breaks up into its vaiious divisions, whicli are generally arranged in the following manner: in front of the artery are the two roots of the median nerve, whicli con- verge like the letter V; on the outer side are the musculo-cutane- ous and external root of the median; on the inner, the ulnar, the two^ internal cutaneous, and the internal root of the median; behind it, the musculo-spiral and circumflex nerves. Branches of The number and origin of these branches often vary, the^axillary but their general course is in most cases similar, and they usually arise in the order in which they are here described. The thoracic axis arises above the pectoralis minor, and divides into branches, which have been already described (p. 221). The alar thoracic is variable in its origin, supplies the glands and cellular tissue of the axilla The inferior or long thoracic artery, sometimes called the ex- ternal mammary, runs along the lower border of the pectoraUs mmor. It supplies the mammary gland, the serratus magnus and pectoral muscles, and maintains a free anastomosis with the short thoracic, internal mammary, and intercostal arteries. The subscapular is the largest branch of the axillary; it arises opposite the lower border of the subscapularis, and soon divides into an anterior and posterior branch. a. The anterior branch is the continued trunk ^, it runs along Q 2