PXEUMOGASTKIC IN THE CHEST. 124 costal vessels of the right side, and, lastly, lies in front, and slightly to the left side of the aorta. In front of it is the left bronchus ; and before it passes through the diaphragm it lies in close contact with the pericardium for nearly two inches: this fact accounts for the pain which is sometimes experienced in cases of pericarditis, during the passage of food. The oesophagus is surrounded by a nervous plexus, formed by the pneumogastric nerves, the left being in front and the right behind it. The CBSophagus is supplied with blood by the inferior thyroid, the oesophageal branches of the aorta, and the coronaria ventriculi. It is supplied with nerves by the pneumogastric and the sympa- thetic. The 03sophagus is composed of three coats, an external or muscular, a middle or cellular, and an internal or mucous. The muscular coat consists of an outer longitudinal and an inner circular layer of fibres. Both are of the non-striped variety. The longitudinal layer is particularly strong, and arranged all round the oesophagus so as to support the circular. The middle coat is composed of cellular tissue, and connects very loosely the muscular and mucous coats. The mucous membrane is of a pale colour, and considerable thickness, and in the contracted state of the oesophagus is arranged in longitudinal folds. It is lined by a very thick layer of scaly epithelium. In the submucous tissue are many small compound glands—esophageal griaiicZs—especially towards the lower end of the oesophagus. CoTirse and The right pneumogastric nerve enters the chest between branches of subclavian artery and vein, descends by the side of mogastric the trachea, then behind the root of the right lung to nerves. ^|^g posterior surface of the oesophagus, upon which it divides into branches, which form a plexus (posterior oesophageal) upon the tube. The plexus then reunites into a single trunk, which passes into the abdomen through the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm. The left pneumogastric descends into the chest between the left subclavian and carotid arteries, and behind the left brachio-cephalic vein. It then crosses in front of the arch of the aorta, and passes behind the root of the left lung to the anterior surface of the oesophagus, upon which it also forms a