BRANCHES Or ABDOMINAL AOllTA. 343 are: 1, The colica sinistra, which crosses over the left kidney and supplies the descending colon ; 2, the sigmoidea, which is distributed to the sigmoid flexure; and 3, the superior hcemorrhoidal, which supplies the rectum, and will be dissected with the side view of the pelvis. These inosculate in the form of arches. The colica sinistra, too, forms a large arterial arch with the colica media, so that there is a chain of arterial communications from one end to the other of the intestinal canal (fig. 69). The inferior mesenteric vein joins the splenic behind the pancreas. To see the relations of the duodenum and the pancreas, two ligatures about an inch apart should be placed on the upper end of the jejunum, and two others at a similar distance apart on the lower end of the sigmoid flexure of the colon. The intestines should be cut through between each set of ligatures, and the intermediate portions of the small and large intestines removed. By turning up the stomach we expose at once the horse-shoe course of the duo- denum round the great end of the pancreas. The duodenum (p. 338) commences at the pyloric end of Duodenum. ,, , i V, ■ ■, the stomach, and termmates on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra. It is divided into three parts, an ascending, de- scending, and transverse. The first portion ascends obliquely as high as the neck of the gall- bladder ; then making a sudden bend, it descends in front of the right kidney as low as the third lumbar vertebra. Lastly, making another bend it ascends obliquely across the spine to the left side from the third to the second lumbar vertebra : here the canal takes the name of jejunum. Thus the duodenum describes a horse-shoe curve, the concavity of which is towards the left side, and embraces the head of the pancreas. The first part of the duodenum is completely invested by peritoneum, and is comparatively loose, that the movements of the stomach may not be restricted. The second and third parts are- only covered by peritoneum in front. Into the descending portion, the common bile duct and the pancreatic duct empty themselves, either by separate or conjoined openings.