DISSECTION- OP THE BACK OF- THE FOREARM. 291 the extensor tendons, inosculating near the carpal ends of the metacarpal bones with the perforating branches from the deep palmar arch. b. The first dorsalinterosseous artery is generally larger than tlie others. It descends over the second interosseous muscle to the cleft between the index and middle fingers, communicating here with a perforating branch of the deep palmar arch, and terminates in small branches, some of which proceed along the back of the fingers, others inosculate with the palmar digital arteries. _ c. The dorsal artery of the index-finger, a branch of variable size, passes over the first interosseous muscle to the radial side of the back of the index finp-er. d. The dorsal arteries of the thumb are two small branches which arise from the radial opposite the head of the first meta- carpal booe, and run along the back of the thumb, one on either side. They are often absent. These dorsal interosseous arteries supply the extensor tendons and their sheaths, the interosseous muscles, and the skin on the back of the hand, and the first phalanges of the fingers. Eemove the tendons from the back and from the palm of the hand: observe the deep palmar fascia which covers the interosseous muscles. It is attached to the ridges of the metacarpal bones forms a distmct sheath for each interosseous muscle, and is con- tmuous inferiorly with the transverse metacarpal Hgament. On the back of the hand the interosseous muscles are covered by a thin fascia, which is attached to the adjacent borders of the meta- carpal bones. Transverse ™s consists of strong bands of ligamentous fibres STbT' ""^'f P^'' transversely between the digital extremities' • of the metacarpal bones. These bands are intimately united to the fibro-cartilaginous ligament of the metacarpal joints, and are of sufficient length to admit of a certain degree of move- ment between the ends of the metacarpal bones. Eernovethe fascia which covers the interosseous muscles, and separate the metacarpal bones by dividing the transverse meta- u 2