INTEENAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 89 c. The meningea parva ascends through the foramen ovale into the skull, and supplies chiefly the ganglion of the fifth pair. It often conies from the meningea media. d. The inferior dental artery descends behind the neck of the jaw to the dental foramen, which it enters with the dental nerve. It then proceeds through a canal in the diploe to the symphysis, where it minutely inosculates with its fellow. In this canal, which runs beneath the roots of all the teeth, the artery gives branches which ascend through the little apertures in the fangs, and ramify upon the pulp in their interior. Opposite the foramen mentale arises the mental branch already described (p. 82). Before enter- ing the jaw the dental artery furnishes a small branch—mylo- hyoid—which accompanies the nerve proceeding to the mylo-hyoid muscle. e. The masseteric branch passes through the sigmoid notch of the jaw to the under surface of the masseter, with the masseteric nerve, and inosculates with the facial artery. f. The anterior and posterior temporal arteries ascend to supply the temporal muscle, ramifying close to the bone, one near the front, the other near the posterior border of the muscle. g. The pterygoid branches supply the internal and external pterygoid muscles. h. The buccal branch runs forwards with the buccal nerve to the buccinator. i. The superior-dental branch runs along the back part of the superior maxillary bone, and sends small arteries through the foramina in the bone to the pulps of the molar and bicuspid teeth. It also supplies the gums. j. The infra-orbital branch passes through the spheno-maxillary fissure, then runs forwards along the infra-orbital canal with the superior maxillary nerve, and emerges upon the face at the infra- orbital foramen. In the infra-orbital canal the artery sends branches downwards through little canals in the bone to the in- cisor and canine teeth. k. The descending palatine, a branch of considerable size, runs down the posterior palatine canal with the palatine nerve (a