CUTANEOUS NERVES OF THE NECK. 16 jugular becouaes an important supplemental vein, and attains con- siderable size. It is not uncommon to find it a quarter of an inch in diameter, and we have seen it nearly half an inch. These varieties should be remembered in tracheotomy. Superficial absorbent glands are sometimes found near the cutaneous veins of the neck. They are small, and escape observa- tion unless enlarged by disease. One or two are situated over the sterno-mastoid muscle; others near the mesial line. ^ ^ The cutaneous nerves of the neck are the superficial nerves of branches of the cervical plexus: the plexus itself cannot the neck. present be seen. It lies under the sterno-mastoid muscle, close to the transverse processes of the four upper cervical vertebrae, and is formed by the communications of the anterior divisions of the four upper cervical nerves. The cutaneous branches of the plexus emerge beneath the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid, and take different directions. We divide and name them thus (fig. 5) : f Auriculo-parotidean. Ascending branches ^ g^^^i occipital. _ Cutaneous branches of Transverse branch Superficialis colli. the cervical plexus. | (Sternal. Descending branches -j Clavicular. (Acromial. The am-iculo-'parotidean n. comes from the second and third cervical nerves, and ascends obliquely over the sterno-mastoid muscle, near the external jugular vein, towards the parotid gland. Near the gland it divides into two principal branches, of which the anterior is distributed to the skin over the gland and the side of the cheek; the posterior ascends to the cartilage of the ear, and ramifies chiefly upon its occipital surface. Other filaments communicate in the substance of the parotid gland with branches of the portio dura, or facial nerve. The small occipital nerve comes from the second cervical nerve. It runs near the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle to the occiput, where it supplies the back of the scalp. It also sends off a branch which is distributed to the skin of the side of the head. Beneath the sterno-mastoid this nerve commonly forms a