DISSECTION OF THE SCALP. 2 supra-orbital taud frontal arteries, branches of the internal carotid ; on the sides, from the temporal; behind, from the occijntaZ and posterior auricular, branches of the external carotid. Trace the leading trunks, and observe that they subdivide into branches, which inosculate freely, and finally form a vascular network among the bulbs of the hair. A few small branches here and there dip down through the aponeurosis of the scalp to the pericranium. The veins accompany the arteries. This cutaneous muscle is closely connected to tbe fvZflZ scalp. It consists of two fleshy portions, one on the muscle. occiput, the other on the forehead, connected by a broad aponeurosis. The origin of the muscle takes place from the outer two-thirds of the upper curve on the occipital bone, and the ad- joining part of the mastoid process. The fibres ascend over the back of the head, and terminate in the common aponeurosis. The frontal portion, commencing in an arched form from the common aponeurosis near the frontal suture, descends over the forehead, and terminates partly in the skin of the brow, partly in the orbi- cularis and corrugator supercilii. Some fibres run down the nose under the name of the pyramidalis nasi. The aponeurosis of the scalp is continued over the temples and side of the head, gradually changing from tendinous into fibro-cellular tissue. This muscle enables us to move the scalp backwards and forwards. But its chief action is as a muscle of expression. It elevates the brows, and occasions those transverse wrinkles in the expression of sur- prise. Like the other muscles of expression, it is supplied by the facial nerve. There are several small muscles to move the cartilage Muscles of Qf tiie ear. In man they are thin and pale; but m animals who possess a more delicate sense of hearing, they are much more developed, for the purpose of quickly direct- ing the cartilage of the ear towards the pulse of the air. To indicate the position of this muscle the student M. attollens g^ould draw down the upper part of the pinna of the ear when it will be found immediately under the ridge of skin so produced. It arises from the aponeurosis of the scalp,