DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. 226 scapula, with the exception of the angles and neck, and terminates in a strong tendon, which passes under the axillary vessels and nerves, over the inner side of the shoulder-joint, and is inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. The tendon of the muscle is intimately connected with the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint, and between the coracoid process and the tendon is a bursa, which frequently communicates with the joint. Its action is to rotate the humerus inwards. Serratus l^his muscle covers the side of the chest like a girth, magnus. It avises from the eight upper ribs by nine slips or digitations, the second rib having two. Its fibres converge and are inserted into the posterior border of the scapula. Its action is to draw the scapula forwards; but of this more hereafter. It is supplied by the following nerve, which you see on its outer surface. This nerve supplies the serratus magnus only. It respiratory comes from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves; and nerve of after passing through the scalenus medius, runs behind the axillary vessels, to the outer surface of the serratus magnus; each digitation receiving a separate filament.* Having surveyed the muscles which bound tlie axilla, study next the axillary artery, and its branches: to this end, reflect the subclavius from its insertion, and the pectoralis minor from its origin. This artery, a continuation of the subclavian, takes Course and j^y^Q name of 'axillary' at the outer border of the of the first rib. It runs downwards and outwards, through axillary upper part of the axilla, beneath the two pectoral artery. muscles, and along the inner edge of the coraco-bra- chialis, as far as the lower border of the tendon of the teres major, where it takes the name of 'brachial.' Its course may be divided into three portions: one above the pectoralis minor; one beliind it; and the third below it. The artery in the * It may be asked why this nerve is called the ' external respiratory.' It was so named hy Sir C. Bell, who considered the serratus magnus as the external respiratory muscle.