THALAMUS OPTICUS.—THIRD VENTKICLE. 537 gland,'' a vascular body, about tbe size of a pea. From the gland may be traced forwards two slender white cords, called its ' pedun- cles '—one along the inner side of each optic thalamus. 4. Passing transversely across are three commissures —anterior, middle, and posterior, connecting the opposite sides of the brain. 5. Immedi- ately behind the pineal gland are four elevations, two on each side, called the 'corpora quadrigemina,^ or 'nates and testes.^ 6. These bodies are connected to the cerebellum by two bands, one on each side, termed the ^processus a cerebello ad testes.^ 7. Between these bands extends a thin layer of grey substance, called the 'valve of Vieussens,'' beneath which lies the fourth ventricle. This is the oval elevation seen on the floor of the opticuT^'^ lateral ventricle, immediately behind the corpus stri- atum and tsenia semicircularis. Though white on the surface, its interior consists of alternate layers of wliite and grey matter, like the corpus striatum.* The under surface of the thalamus rests upon its corresponding crus cerebri, and forms the roof of the descending or middle horn of the lateral ventricle. Beneath the posterior part of the thalamus are two small emi- nences, termed the 'corpus genicidatum internum, and ex- ternum. These eminences are produced by small accumulations of grey matter beneath the surface. A narrow band of white matter connects the external one with the nates, and a similar band connects the internal one with the testes.f This is the narrow fissure which exists between the ven'tricle <^ptic thalami, and reaches down to the base of the brain. Its roof is formed by the velum interpositum; the floor, which increases in depth in front, by certain parts at the * The elevation called the optic thalamus is occasioned by the interposition of a quantity of grey matter among the fibres of the crus cerebri. Gall termed it the inferior ganglion of the cerebrum, in opposition to the corpus striatum, which he termed the saiperior ganglion (Anat. et Phys. du Systeme Nery.: Paris, 1810). The epithet ' optic' applied to the thalamus might lead us to suppose that it presides over vision; but that it exercises very little influence over sight is rendered probable by comparative anatomy, by experimental physiology, and by pathology. t These bands are faintly marked in man, but more apparent in the lower animals.