NOMENCLATURE OF PARTS AT BASE OP BRAIN. 523 The several objects seen at the base of the brain in STlirlrtr^the middle line should now be examined, proceeding in at the W order from the front (fig. 119, p. 514). In this de- of the brain. g^^,|p,.-oj^ the cerebral nerves are omitted. These will be examined hereafter. In the middle line dividing the anterior lobes is the longitudinal fissure. By gently separating the anterior lobes, we expose the anterior extremity of the corpus callosum, or the great transverse commissure which connects the two hemispheres of the cerebrum. Continued backwards and outwards on each side from the corpus, callosum to the fissure of Sylvius, is a white band, called the- peduncle of the corpus callosum. Extending from the corpus callosum to the optic commissure is a layer of grey matter, lamina cinerea, which is continued backwards to the tuber cinereum. Be- tween the anterior and middle lobes is a deep fissure, ' the fissure of Sylvius,' at the bottom of which are situated the middle cerebral artery and the island of Eeil. The optic commissure, formed by the union of the two optic tracts, is seen in the middle line behind the lamina cinerea. At the root of the fissure of Sylvius, and in front of the optic tract, is a space, the locus perforatus anticus, the surface of v/hich is perforated by small blood vessels, which supply the corpus striatum. Immediately behind the optic com- missure is a simple elevation of the surface, consisting of grey matter, called the ' tuber cioiereum' From this a conical tube of reddish colour, termed the ' infundibulum,' descends to the * pituitary hody^ which occupies the sella turcica of the sphenoid bone. The pituitary body consists of two lobes, the anterior and larger is of a reddish-brown colour, and concave behind to receive the posterior lobe. On section, it is composed of a soft pulpy mass of a yellowish-brown colour. Behind the tuber cinereum, are two round white bodies, the 'corpora mammillaria or alhicantia,' which are formed by the curling round of the anterior horns of the fornix. Between- the mammillary bodies and the pons is a depression of grey matter called tlie locus perforatus -posticus or pons Tarini, the surface of which is pierced by small vessels supplying the optic thalami. From the anterior border of