24 DEPRESSORS OF THE OS-HYOIDES, of the insertion of the muscle. The subclavian artery, which appears behind the outer border of the scalenus anticus, must Ije fairly exposed, care being taken to preserve the small branch which proceeds from the brachial plexus to the subclavius muscle. The large nerves constituting the brachial plexus will be found emerging between the scalenus anticus and medius, higher than the subclavian artery. The anterior triangle must now be dissected. And trianglT examine the flat muscles in front of the neck, which pull down the larynx; namely, the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid.* Eemove the fascia which covers them, disturbing them as little as possible, and take care of the nerves (branches of the descendens noni), which enter their outer borders. The sterno-hyoid arises from the back part of the hyoid°' sternum and sterno-clavicular ligament, and is inserted into the lower border of the body of the os-hyoides. This is the most superficial of the muscles in front of the neck. We cut in the mesial line between these muscles in laryngotomy. The sterno-thyroid arises from the back part of the thyroi'd sternum, below the origin of the sterno-hyoid and the cartilage of the first rib, and is inserted into the oblique ridge on the ala of the thyroid cartilage. This muscle is situated immediately under, and is much broader than, the sterno-hyoid. Notice that the two sterno-hyoid muscles converge as they ascend to their insertions, and that opposite the cricoid cartilage and the two or three upper rings of the trachea they are in contact with one another. The sterno-thyroid, however, diverge to their insertions and are in contact below, the result of which is that the trachea is completely covered in front by muscular fibres. , ., The omo-hyoid arises from the upper border of the Omo-hyoitt. , , i j • scapula, and from the ligament over the notch, and is * The sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid mxiscles often present slight transverse tendinous lines. These tendinous intersections are quite rudimentary in man ; but in some animals with long necks, e. g. the giraffe, they are so developed that each de- pressor muscle is composed of alternations of muscle and tendon.