SOLE or THE FOOT. 49.5 Abductor '^^^^ muscle has a very strong origin from the under minimi surfacB of the OS calcis, from its external tubercle and the plantar fascia. Some of its fibres terminate on a teudon which is inserted into the proximal end of the metatarsal bone of the little toe; but the greater part runs on to a tendon which is inserted into the outer side of the first phalanx of the little toe. It is supplied by the external plantar nerve. Flexor brevis "^^^^ muscle arises from the under surface of the digitoriun. OS calcis, between the two preceding, from the plantar fascia and the intermuscular septa. It passes forwards and divides into four tendons, which run superficial to those of the long flexor. Cut open the sheath which contains them ; follow them on to the toes, to see that each bifurcates over the first phalanx, to allow the long tendon to pass; then the two slips, reuniting, are inserted into the sides of the second phalanx. The same arrangement prevails as in the fingers. It is supplied by the internal plantar nerve. The three superficial muscles should now be reflected, by sawing off about half an inch of the os calcis, and then turning it down- wards with the preceding muscles attached to it. This done, we bring into view the plantar vessels and nerves, the second layer of muscles, i.e. the long flexor tendon of the great toe, that of the other toes, and the flexor accessorius. Tendon of the Tracing this tendon into the sole, you find that an ItgZruT" accessory muscle is attached to it. The flexor acces- Musculus ac- sorius arises by muscular fibres from the inner side of cessonus. j-j^g caXds, and has often a second origin, tendinous, from the outer side. Its fibres run straight forwards, and are' inserted into the fibular side of the tendon, so that their action is not only to assist in bending the toes, but to make the common tendon pull in a straight line towards the heel, which, from its oblique direction, it could not do without the accessory muscle. The common tendon then divides into four, one for each of the four outer toes. These run in the same sheath with the short tendons, and after passing through them are inserted into the bases of the ungual phalanges. Eespecting the manner in which