PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL JIERNIA. 449 whei-e it is gradually lost upon the proper investment of the femoral vessels. The outer part of the sheath is perforated by the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, and the superficial arteries of the groin; the inner part by the saphena vein and some absorbent vessels. Within the sheath of the femoral vessels, are three compartments separated from each other by partitions : the outer one is occupied by the femoral artery; the middle, by the femoral vein; the inner is the crural canal, into which the femoral hernia descends. Practically, the sheath is important for many reasons : 1. A femoral hernia descends inside it. 2. It forms, therefore, one of the coverings (fascia propria) of the hernia. 3. It contains in its substance bands of fibres (deep crural arch) running in the same direction as the crural arch, but quite independent of it, as shown in fig. 101; these bands lie over the neck of the sac, and are often the seat of the stricture ; it is therefore necessary to divide them before the intestine can be returned. Crural canal hollow Under the crural arch is completely occu- and femoral pied except for a small space, called the crural caned, on the inner side of the vein. This canal is from a quarter to half an inch in length. It commences, above, in the femoral ring; and ends, below, at the saphenous opening. The femoral ring is the upper opening of the crural canal, and is bounded, m front, by the crural arch ; behind, by the bone; on the outer side, by the femoral vein ; on the inner side, by the thin wiry edge of Gimbernat's ligament. In the undisturbed condition of the parts there is no gap; it is only a weak place, which, when a hernia escapes through it, feels like a ring: hence the name of ' femoral ring.'* The femoral ring is surrounded on all sides by unyieldino- struc- tures. This accounts for the little benefit afforded by the warm bath m cases of strangulation. Mr. Lawrence was in the habit of * The femoral ring is naturally occnpied by a little fat and cellular membrane by nnnSnf T ' '^''T''' " ^"^'^ ^'^^"^■^^"^ ^^-'^^ - "^-^ never mer;itJ G G