DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. 225 pectoralis major. They are supplied with blood by a branch {thovacica alaris) of the axillary artery, and by branches from the thoracic and infra-scajJidar arteries. These glands receive the absorbents from the arm, from the front and side of the chest, and from the outer half of the mam- mary gland. Now reflect the pectoralis major from its origin, to expose the pectoralis minor, and the ramifications of the short and long- thoracic arteries. Preserve the arteries as much as possible in connection with the main trunks. Pectoralis This muscle arises from the third, fourth, and fifth minor. Tibs, near the costal cartilages. The fibres run up- wards and outwards, and converge to a strong tendon, which is inserted into the anterior surface of the coracoid process. The tendon is connected to that of the coraco-brachialis by a strong- fascia, which forms a protection for the subjacent axillary vessels and nerves. The action of this muscle is to draw the scapula downwards and forwards. Latissimus This muscle forms the posterior margin of the axilla. dorsi. It arises from the crest of the ilium, from the spines of the two or three upper sacral, all the lumbar, and six lower dorsal vertebrae, and by digitations from the three lower ribs^ corresponding with those of the external oblique. It is inserted by a broad flat tendon (which runs behind the axillary vessels and nerves), into the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus. ^ . This muscle lies behind the latissimus dorsi, is ieres major, i n i . closely connected with it, and assists in forming the posterior boundary of the axilla. It arises from the lower angle of the back of the scapula, and is inserted by a broad flat tendon into the posterior margin of the bicipital groove of the humerus. A bursa or sac, containing serum, to prevent friction, intervenes between this tendon and that of the latissimus dorsi. The action of this and the preceding muscle is to draw the humerus inwards and backwards. This muscle occupies the internal surface of the scapula. It arises from the internal surface of the