DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF THE HAND. 261 pollicis, and then terminates in three digital nerves, two of which are distributed to the thumb, and the third to the outer side of the index finger; the internal gives off two digital branches which supply the rest of the forefinger, the middle finger, and the radial side of the ring finger. The two nerves to the thumb proceed, one on each side of the long flexor tendon, to the last phalanx. The third digital nerve runs along the radial side of the index finger. The fourth descends towards the cleft between the index and middle fingers, and subdivides into two branches, which supply their opposite sides. The fifth is joined by a filament from one of the ulnar digital nerves, and then subdivides above the cleft be- tween the middle and ring fingers, to supjoly their opposite sides. Two small branches are given off from the third and fourth digital nerves, to supply the two outer lumbricales; the two inner being supplied by the ulnar. About an inch and a quarter above the clefts between the fingers, each digital nerve subdivides into two branches, between which the digital artery passes and bifurcates lower down; there- fore a vertical incision down the cleft would divide the artery before the nerve. In their course along the fingers and thumb, the nerves lie superficial to the arteries, and nearer to the flexor tendons. About the middle of the first phalanx each nerve sends a branch, which runs along the back of the finger nearly to the extremity, commu- nicating with the dorsal branches, derived from the radial and ulnar nerves.* Near the imgual phalanx another branch is dis- * We find upon the cutaneous nerves of tlieliand and feet, little bodies termpd after tlieir discoverer, corpuscles of 'Pacini.' Some of them will be found, by carefully exam.nmg the trunk of a nerve, or one of its smaller branches, in the subcutaueous tissue at the root of a finger. Each corpuscle is about ^\th of an inch long and is attached by a slender fibro-cellular pedicle to the nerve upon which it is situated • throngli the pedicle, a single primitive nerve fibril passes into the corpuscle The corpu-scle itself is composed of a series of concentric capsules, varying from twenty to litty m number, and separated by intervals containing fluid: and the nerve fibril terminates by a dilated extremity in a central cavity, which exists in the axis of tlio corpuscle. Their function is unknown.