LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE. 505 Tig. 113. from the semimembranosus. It not only closes and protects the joint behind, but prevents its extension beyond the perpendicular. The joint should be opened above the patella. Observe the great extent of the fold which the synovial membrane forms above this bone.* The use of it is to allow the free play of the bone over the lower part of the femur. The fold extends higher above the inner than the outer condyle, which accounts for the form of the swelling produced by effusion into the joint, ^ Below the patella a slender band of the synovial synovial membrane proceeds backwards to the space between membrane. ^-^^ condyles. It is Called the 'ligamentum mu- cosum:' the edges of it are called the ' ligamenta alaria.^ These are not true ligaments, but merely remnants of the partition, which, in the early stage of the joint's growth, divided it into two halves. Immediately outside the synovial membrane there is always more or less fat; especially under the ligamentum patellae. Its use is to fill up vacuities, and to mould itself to the several move- ments of the joint. The crucial ligaments, so named ligaments because they cross like the letter X, extend from the mesial side of each condyle to the head of the tibia. The anterior, a, b, the smaller, ascends from the fossa in front of the spine of the tibia, backwards and outwards to the external condyle. The posterior, c, d, best seen from behind, extends from the fossa behind the spine of the tibia forwards to the inner condyle. Between the condyles and the articular surfaces of cular or the tibia are two incomplete rings of fibro-cartilage, semi-lunar shaped like the letter C. They serve to deepen the cartilages. articular surfaces of the tibia ; their mobilit}'- and elas- ticity enable them to adapt themselves to the condyles in the * In performing operations near the knee, tlie joint should always be bent in order to draw the synovial fold as much as possible out of the yfuj. a, b. Anterior crucial ligament, c, d. Postei'ior ditto. e. Tibio-fibular.