MUSCLES OP THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ARM. 273 branch of the fifth and sixth cervical. It passes outwards beneath the lower part of the levator anguli scapula?, to which it sends a branch, and is lost in the under surface of the rhomboidei. Omo- This muscle extends from the scapula to the os hyoideus. hyoides, and consists of two long narrow muscular por- tions, connected by an intermediate tendon beneath, the sterno- mastoid. The posterior portion only can be seen in the present dissection. It arises from the scapula, close behind the notch, and from the ligament above the notch. From thence the slender muscle passes forwards across the lower part of the neck, beneath the sterno-mastoid, where it changes its direction and ascends nearly vertically, to be attached to the as hyoides at the junction of the body with the greater cornu (p. 22). Thus the two por- tions of the muscle form beneath the sterno-mastoid an obtuse angle, of which the apex is tendinous, and of which the an^^ular direction is maintained by a layer of fascia, proceeding "from the tendon to the first rib and the clavicle. Its action is to depress the os hyoides. Its nerve comes from the descendens nom. Supra-scapu- This artery (transversalis humeri), a branch of the lar artery. thyroid axis, runs beneath and parallel with the clavicle over the lower end of the scalenus anticus to the upper border of the scapula, where it usually passes above the ligament, bridging over the notch. It ramifies in the supra spinous fossa, supplying the supra-spmatus, and then passes under the acromion to the mfra-spinous fossa, where it inosculates freely with the dorsalis scapula, a branch of the subscapular. It sends off the supra- aa^mmL branch, which ramifies upon the acromion, anastomosing with the other acromial arteries derived from branches of the axillary. The supra-scapular vein terminates either in the sub- clavian or m the external jugular. The supra-scapular nerve, a branch of the fifth and sixth twt'tr" "'"^ corresponding artery, and after passing soS distributed to the supra! spmatus and mfra-spmatus. In the supra-spinous fossa, this nerve gends a small branch to the shoulder-joint