PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. 318 above and below by the free margins of the aponeurosis, which are called its 'columns or pillars.' The inner or upper pillar is thiu, and is attached to the front of the pubes, and decussates with its fellow of the opposite side in front of the symphysis. The outer pillar is thicker and stronger, and has three attachments; one to the spine of the pubes (Poupart's ligament), another for nearly an inch along the linea ilio-pectinea (Grimbernat's liga- ment), and a third (triangular ligament) consists of a few fibres which pass upwards and inwards beneath the inner pillar as far as the linea alba, where they are continuous with the aponeurosis of the opposite side. At the lower part of the aponeurosis of the external oblique, there are a number of arched fibres called Hntercolumnar hands,' which are strongest at its lowest part, above the external ring. Their purpose is to strengthen the opening and prevent the ring from enlarging. Attached to the margin of the external ring is a thin fascia, the intercolumnar or spermatic fascia, which is prolonged over the spermatic cord, and forms a thin covering over it extending down into the scrotum. The spermatic cord in its passage through the ring rests upon the external pillar. To examine the muscular stratum, the aponeurosis Sr^mlnd of the external oblique must be reflected. This is to cremaster. ^q^q -^y making a transverse incision through it, from the spine of the ilium to the linea alba and another at right angles to it, along the linea alba to the pubes. The triangular flap of aponeurosis is to be reflected and turned downwards, without injuring the external ring or the crural arch. The muscular stratum is now fairly exposed. This stratum consists of the combined fibres of the internal oblique and transverse muscles : these, so far as our present subject is concerned, may be considered as one, having the same origin, direction, and insertion. Their origin is from the outer half of the crural arch ; their direc- tion is transversely towards the mesial hue, and they terminate upon a thin aponeurosis termed the ' conjoined tendon; which is inserted into the upper part of the pubes and the linea alba (fig. 62). This tendon is situated immediately behind the ex-