BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN. 59 over the scalenus anticus, then directly beneath and parallel with the clavicle; crossing over the third part of the subclavian artery to the superior border of the scapula, it passes above the trans- verse lieament which bridges over the notch, and divides into branches, some of which ramify above, others below, the spine of this bone. It inosculates freely in the infra-spinous fossa with the ' dorsalis scapulte,' a branch of the subscapular, and with the posterior scapular artery. Near the notch, it is joined by the supra-scapular nerve, which runs through it. The 'posterior scapular (transversalis colli) artery, of which the normal origin is said to be from the thyroid axis, very frequently arises from the subclavian in the last part of its course. It is larger than the preceding artery, and runs tortuously across the side of the neck (higher than the supra-scapular), over the scalene muscles and the great nerves of the brachial plexus (sometimes between them), and disappears beneath the trapezius and the levator anguli scapulae to reach the posterior angle of the scapula. It then runs beneath the rhomboid muscles, in which it is lost. In the space between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius, the posterior scapular gives off the ' superficialis colli.' This vessel proceeds tortuously across the posterior triangle of the neck to the under surface of the trapezius, which, with the levator anguli scapulae, it principally supplies. The superficialis colli often comes direct from the thyroid axis, when the posterior scapular arises from the last part of the siib- clavian. The veins corresponding to the supra-scapular and posterior scapular arteries terminate in the external jugular, sometimes in the subclavian. The middle thyroid vein crosses in front of the common carotid artery, and joins the internal jugular. This artery arises from the subclavian opposite to the thyroid axis. It enters the chest behind the subclavian vein, Internal descends behind the cartilao-es of the ribs, about mammary. ° half an inch from the sternum. Its farther progress will be examined in the dissection of the chest. The correspond- ing vein most frequently terminates in the brachio-cephalic.