CIRCLE OF WILLIS. 515 middle of the pons, and divides at its upper border into the two posterior cerebral arteries. Each vertebral artery before joining its fellow gives off— a. A posterior meningeal branch distributed to the posterior fossa of the skull. h. Antenor and -posterior spinal arteries, which supply the front and back surfaces of the spinal cord. c. The infeHor cerebellar artery, sometimes a branch of the basilar, but more frequently of the vertebral, passes backwards, and supplies the lower surface of the cerebellum. The basilar artery, formed by the junction of the two vertebral, in its course along the pons gives off on each side— a. Transverse branches whic?! pass outwards on the pons : one, the auditory, enters the meatus auditorius internus with the auditory nerve ; another, the anterior cerebellar, supplies the front part of the lower surface of the cerebellum. b. The supeHor cerebellar, which supplies the upper surface of the cerebellum. c. The posterior cerebral, the terminal branches, run outwards and backwards, one on the under surface of each posterior cerebral lobe, and divide into numerous branches, which ultimately inos- culate with the outer cerebral arteries. Each gives off a small posterior choroid artery distributed to the choroid plexus. This important arterial inosculation (fig. 119) is Wims°^ formed, laterally, by the two anterior cerebral, the two internal carotid, and the two posterior communicating- arteries : in front it is completed by the anterior communicating artery ; behind, by the two posterior cerebral. The tortuosity of the large arteries before they enter the brain is hatended to miti- gate the force of the heart's action; and the circle of Willis provides a free supply of blood from other quarters, in case any accidental circumstance should stop the flow of blood in any of the more direct channels.* * In many of the long-necked herbivorous quadrupeds a beautiful provision has been made, in the disposition of the internal carotid arteries, for the purpose of, equalising the force of the blood supplied to the brain. The arteries, as they enter ll2