204 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. Spinalis '^'^^^ ^ ^^^^ narrow muscle, situated close to the dorsi. ^ spines of the dorsal vertebrje, and apparently a part of the longissimiis dorsi. It arises by tendinous slips from the spines of the two lower dorsal and two upper lumbar vertebraB, and is inserted by little tendons into the spines of the SIX or eight upper dorsal vertebra?. The muscles of the spine hitherto examined are all longitudinal in their direction. We now come to a series which run obliquely from the transverse to the spinous processes of the vertebrae. And first of the complexus. Complexus. '^^^^ powerful muscle arises from the transverse pro- cesses of the three or four upper dorsal and the last cervical vertebrae, also from the articular processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebras. It is inserted between the two' curved lines of the occiput, near the vertical crest. In the centre of the muscle there is generally tendinous tissue.* The muscle is perforated by the posterior branches of the second (the great occi- pital), third, and fourth cervical nerves. Its action is to maintain the head erect. Cut transversely through the middle of the complexus, and angles of the eight or nine inferior dorsal ribs ; (3.) it is inserted, through the medium of the musculus accessorius, into the angles of the remaining superior ribs, and into the long and occasionally distinct pleurapophysial element of the seventh cervical vertebra; and (4.) through the medium of the cervicalis ascendens, into the pleura- pophysial elements of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebra. In other words, the muscular fibres extend from rib to rib, from the sacrum to the third cervical vertebra. ' The longissimus dorsi, situated nearer the spine than the sacro-lumbalis, is in- serted (1.) into the metapophysial spine of the lumbar diapophyses; (2.) into the diapophyses of aU the dorsal vertebrae, near the origin of the levatores costarum; (3.) through the medium of the transversalis colli into the diapophyses of the second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae; and (4.) through the medium of the trachelo-mastoid into the mastoid process, or the only element of a transverse process possessed by the parietal vertebra. In other words, its fibres extend from diapophysis to diapophysis, from the sacrum, upwards, to the parietal vertebra.'—Homologies of the Human Skeleton, by H. Coote, p. 75. * The inner border of the complexus is described by some anatomists as a separate muscle, under the name of 'biventer cervicis,' simply because it consists of two muscular portions united by an intermediate tendon.