DISSECTION OF THE SCALF. The small occipital nerve, a branch of the anterior division of the second cervical (p. 15), runs along the posterior border of the insertion of the sterno-mastoid, and supplies the scalp. Raise the aponeurosis of the scalp, and observe the IZ'cf quantity of loose areolar tissue which intervenes between interest. and the pericranium. This tissue never contains fat. There are some points of surgical interest concerning it Its looseness accounts for the extensive effusions of blood which one often sees after injuries on the head. 2. It admits of large flaps of the scalp being detached from the skull-cap; but these flaps do not mortify because they carry their blood-vessels ^^th them 3 In phlegmonous erysipelas of the scalp, it becomes infiltrated with pus and sloughs; hence the necessity of making mcisions; for the scalp will not lose its vitality, and liberate the sloughs like the skin of other parts under similar conditions, because its vessels run above the diseased tissue, and therefore its supply of blood is ""Vhe Ibsorbeiit vessels of the scalp run most of them backwards towards the occiput; a few run towards the root of the zygoma, where they enter the absorbent glands in those situations respec- tively. Here, therefore, one finds glandular enlargements when the scalp is diseased. To examine the brain and it. membranes, the skull-cap must be removed about half an inch above the supra-orbital ridges m front, and on a level with the occipital protuberance behmd. It be terto saw only through the outer table of the skuH and o break through the inner with a chisel. In this way the dura ^:^r Ld th°e brain are less likely to be injured On removing The skull we expose a tough fibrous membrane, t^^^"'^^'' which forms the most external of the membranes of he J^^in. These arteries ramify between the skull and the duia Meningeal ^^ter. Their course may be traced by the grooves which they make in the bones. The most important is i^e'arteria meningea media; a branch of the internal maxillary artery It enters the skull through the foramen spinosum, and divides into two principal branches; one runs in a groove along