DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 167 these cavities, and observe that it leads into a cul-de-sac, which ascends for a short distance by the side of the thyroid cartilage. These pouches contain a large number of muciparous glands. The probable use of these cavities is to allow free space for the vibration of the vocal cords. The mucous membrane lining them is so sensitive that if a foreign body accidentally lodges there, the patient has no rest until it is expelled. These are the prominent folds which form the upper False vocal jjQundaries of the ventricles. They are called the ' false cords. , •' vocal cords' because they have little or nothing to do with the production of the voice. They are composed of elastic tissue, like the true vocal cords; but they also contain fatty tissue, which the true ones do not. These are two cords, composed of elastic tissue, ex- Cordae tending horizontally from the angle of the thyroid vocales. ° . cartilage to the base of each of the arytenoid. They diverge as they pass backwards ; the space between them is called the ' rima glottidis.' We shall presently see that, through the muscles which act upon the ary- tenoid cartilages, these cords can be approximated or removed from X^^^N—:—-Thyroid cartuage. each other; in other words, the //\\_^_—Truevooaioora. rima glottidis can be closed or di- lated. When sufficiently tight- ened, and brought parallel by means of certain muscles, the /J I \—-Arytenoid cartilage. cords are made to vibrate by the ( —-w^ \ EiasUc ugament. stream of the expired air, and thus , 3 i-L • SHAPE OF THE GXOTTIS IS produced the voice. when at best. What is the length of the true vocal cords ? In the adult male they measure about five-eighths of an inch ; in the female about four-eighths. In boys they are shorter; hence their peculiar voice. At puberty, the cords lengthen, and the voice breaks. The glottis admits of being dilated, contracted, and even com- pletely closed by its appropriate muscles. When at rest, its shape