60 SCALENE MUSCLES. sidered as intercostal muscles, since the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae are but rudimentary ribs. Anatomists describe them as three separate muscles—an anterior, a middle, and a posterior; the anterior and middle are attached to the first rib, the posterior to the second. In plan and purpose these three muscles are one. Scalenus The scalenus anticus arises from the anterior tubercles anticus. of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae, and is inserted by a flat tendon into the tubercle on the inner border of the first rib. Scalenus The scalenus medius arises from the posterior medius. tubercles of the transverse processes of the six lower cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the first rib behind the scalenus anticus. Scalenus The scalenus posticus arises from the posterior posticus. tubercles of the transverse processes of the two or three lower cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the second rib between its tubercle and angle. The scalene muscles are important agents in raising the thorax, in a deep inspiration. Take a deep breath, and you can easily feel them contracting. They can bend the cervical portion of^ the spine, if their lower attachment be the fixed point, as in rising from the recumbent position. The scalenus anticus is just one of those muscles about which we ought to know well all that lies in front of it, and aU that lies behind it. In front of it are, the phrenic nerve, the subclavian vein, the supra-scapular and posterior scapular arteries. Behind it are the subclavian artery and the five nerves which form the brachial plexus. Make your finger familiar with the feel of the tubercle on the first rib, to which the scalenus anticus is attached. This tubercle is the best guide to the subclavian artery, for it guides you to the outer edge of the scalenus anticus, where you must look for the vessel. Is the scalenus anticus entirely concealed from view by the sterno-mastoid or not? This will depend upon the breadth of the clavicular attachment of the sterno-mastoid. As a general rule, it