151 DISSECTION OF THE PIIAKYNX. canal which receives the food after it has been masticated, and propels it downwards into the oesophagus. It is a funnel-shaped muscular bag, about four and a half inches in length. Its broad- est portion is situated opposite the os-hyoides. Its upper part is attached to the basilar process of the occipital bone ; from thence it extends perpendicularly as low as the cricoid cartilage, or the level of the fifth cervical vertebra, where the continuation of it takes the name of ' oesophagus.' The bag is connected behind to the bodies of the cervical vertebrai by loose areolar tissue which never contains fat. In abscesses at the back of the pharynx, the matter is seated in this tissue. Parallel with and close to its sides run the internal carotid arteries. Its dimensions are not equal throughout. Its breadth at the upper part is just equal to that of the posterior openings of the nose ; here it is only required to transmit air: but it becomes much wider in the situation where it transmits the food—that is, at the back of the mouth : thence it gradually contracts to the oesophagus. The pharynx,, therefore, may be compared to a funnel communicating in front by wide apertures with the nose, the mouth, and the larynx; while the oesophagus represents the tube leading from its lower end. The upper part of the funnel forms a cul-de-sac at the basilar process of the occipital bone. At this part there is, on each side, the opening of a narrow canal, called the ' Eustachian tube,' through which air passes to the tympanum of the ear.* Before the muscles of the pharynx can be examined, we must remove a layer of condensed cellular membrane, called by some anatomists the ' pharyngeal fascia.' It is a layer of deep cervical * Obsen-e that the pharynx conducts to the oesophagus by a gi-adual contraction of Its channel. This transition, however, is in some cases sufficiently abrupt to detain a foreign body, such as a morsel of food more bulky than usual, at the top of the oesophagus. If such, a substance . become firmly impacted in this situation, one can readily understand that it will not only prevent the descent of food into the stomach, but that it may occasion, by its .pressure on the trachea, alarmino- symptoms of suffocation. Supposing that the obstacle can neither be removed by the forceps, nor pushed into the stomach by the probang, it may then become necessary to extract it by making an incision into the esophagus on the left side of the neck. • r o