■DISSECTION OF THE llEAUT. 138 the 'sinuses of Valsalva: These, we shall presently see, are more marked at the orifice of the aorta. The action of these valves is obvious. During the contraction of the ventricle the valves lie against the side of the artery, and offer no impediment to the current of blood; during its dilatation, the elasticity of the distended artery would force back the column of blood, but that the valves, being caught by the refluent blood, bag, and fall together so as to close the tube. The greater the pressure, the more accurate is the closure. The coats of the artery are very elasti* and yielding, while the valve, like the circumference to which it is attached, is quite unyielding ; conse- quently, when the artery is distended by the impulse of the blood, its wall is removed from the contact of the free margin of the valves, and these are the more readily caught by the retrograde motion of the blood. The force of the reflux is sustained by the tendinous part of the valves, and by the muscular wall of the ventricle (probably in a state of contraction), as shown by Mr. Savory. According to Haller, the valves are capable of sustaining a weight of sixty-three pounds before they give way. The thinner portions {lunula}) become placed so as to lie side by side, each one with that of the adjacent valve. This may be demonstrated by filling the artery with water. This is situated at the left side and posterior part of Left auricle. ^^^^ ^^^^^^ gomewhat smaller than the right auricle. It is quadrilateral and receives the four pul- monary veins, two on either side, which return the purified blood from the lungs. From its upper and left side, the auricular ap- pendage projects towards the right, curling over the root of the pulmonary artery. The auricle should be opened by a horizontal incision from one pulmonary vein to another: from this a second should be made into the appendix. Its interior is smooth and flat, excepting in the appendix, which contains the ' musculi pectinati: Notice the openings of the four pulmonary veins. Upon the sep- tum between the auricles is a depression indicating the remains of the foramen ovale. At the lower and front part of the auricle is the auriculo-ventricular opening. It is oval, with its long axis nearly transverse, and in the adult will admit the passage of two fingers.