CALAMUS SCRIPTORIUS.—CEREBELLUM. 541 The anterior wall of the fourth ventricle is lozenffe- (^aiau)us shaped, and on it are the following objects, which should be separately examined (p. 519):—1. A median furrow, the remains of the primitive axis canal; running parallel to it on each side is a slight elevation, the fasciculus teres. 2. From the lower part of the furrow two white cords (the restiform colu7)ins or inferio7' crura cerebelli) pass off from the medulla oblongata, diverging like the branches of the letter V, and enter the lateral lobes of the cerebellum. The divergence of these cords with the median furrow was called by the old anatomists the ' cala- mus scriptorius.' 3. The floor of the fourth ventricle is covered by grey matter, which is the grey substance of the medulla exposed by the divergence of its posterior or restiform columns : one mass, placed external to the fasciculus teres, has received the name of ' locus cairuleus.'' 4. On its anterior surface are seen a number of transverse white lines, emerging from the median groove, some of which form part of the origin of the auditory nerves. This portion of the brain is situated in the occipital CeEEBELLUM. „ , ,1,1 „ tossa, beneath the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, from which it is separated by the tentorium. Its form is elliptical, with the broad diameter transverse. When the arachnoid mem- brane and the pia mater are removed, you observe that its surface is not arranged in convolutions like those of the cerebrum. It is laid out upon a plan adapted to produce a much greater super- ficial extent of grey matter. It consists of a multitude of thin plates, disposed in a series of concentric curves, with the concavity forwards. By a little careful dissection, it is easy to separate some of the plates from each other, and to see that the intervening fissures increase in depth from the centre towards the circum- ference of the cerebellum. The fissure at the circumference itself is the deepest of all, and nearly horizontal, so that it seems to divide the cerebellum into an upper and a lower segment. IS formed sooner than any of the others; because it exists in all vertebrated animals, whereas the lateral ventricles are absent in all osseous fishes; and because the ventricle of the septum lucidum is absent in all fishes, in reptiles, and in birds.