304 INTERCARPAL JOINT. The upper row of carpal bones is arranged in the J™^^"''^ form of an arch, so as to receive the corresponding con- vex surfaces of the os magnum and unciforme. Ex- ternally to the OS magnum, the trapezium and trapezoid bones present a slightly concave surface, which articulates with the scaphoid. In this way a joint capable of flexion and extension only is formed between the upper and lower row. It is secured by anterior, posterior, and two lateral ligaments. The anterior liga- ment consists of strong ligamentous fibres, which pass obliquely from the bones of the upper to those of the lower row. The pos- terior ligament consists of oblique and transverse fibres, which connect the dorsal surfaces of the bones of the upper with the lower row. The lateral ligaments connect, externally, the scaphoid and trapezium ; internally, the cuneiform and unciform bones (fig. 57). Divide the ligaments, to see the manner in which the carpal bones articulate with each other. Their surfaces are crusted with cartilacre, and have a common synovial membrane. This mem- brane extends, superiorly, between the three bones of the upper row, so as to form two culs-de-sac ; inferiorly, it is prolonged into the joint between the carpal and the second and third metacarpal bones. . The trapezium presents a cartilaginous surtace, con- JwbeVtba- vex in the transverse, and concave in the anterior PEziTJM AND posterior direction (i.e. saddle-shaped), which articu- 'ZISIIk. lates with a cartilaginous surface on the metacarpal BONE. -bone of the thumb, concave and convex m the opposite directions. This peculiar adaptation of the two surfaces permits the several movements of the thumb, viz., flexion, extension, abduction and adduction ; consequently circumduction. Thus we are enabled to oppose the thumb to all the fingers. The joint is surrounded by a fibrous capsule sufficiently loose to admit free motion, and stronger on the dorsal than on the palmar aspect The security of the joint is increased by the muscles which surround it. It has a separate synovial membrane.