289 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. the hand to the first phalanx of the index finger, where it is united to the ulnar border of the common extensor tendon. By the action of this muscle, the index finger can be extended inde- pendently of the others. Reflect the extensor carpi radialis longior and the anconeus from their origins, to expose the following muscle. Su inator "^^^^^ muscle embraces the upper third of the radius. raX'brevis. arises from the external lateral ligament of the elbow- joint, from the annular ligament surrounding the head of the radius, from an oblique ridge on the outer surface of tJie ulna below the insertion of the anconeus, and by fleshy fibres from the triangular excavation below the lesser sigmoid notch of the ulna. The muscular fibres turn over the neck and upper part of the shaft of the radius, and are inserted into the upper third of this bone, as far forwards as the ridge leading from the tubercle to the insertion of the pronator teres. The muscle is perforated obliquely by the posterior interosseous nerve, one of the terminal divisions of the musculo-spiral nerve, and its upper part is in contact with the capsule of the elbow-joint. It is a powerful supinator of the forearm, some of its fibres acting at nearly a right angle to the axis of the radius. Posterior ^^^^ artery comes from the ulnar by a common trunk interosseous with the anterior interosseous (p. 254), and supplies the muscles on the back of the forearm. It passes between tne radius and ulna above the interosseous membrane, and appears between the supinator radii brevis and the extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis. After supplying branches to all the muscles in this situation, the artery descends, much diminished in size, between the superficial and deep layer of muscles to the wrist, where it inosculates with the carpal branches of the anterior interosseous, and the posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries. But the largest branch of this artery is the recurrent It ascends benea h the anconeus muscle to the space between the external condyle and the olecranon, where it inosculates with the branch of the superior profunda, which descends in the substance of the