FCETAL CIRCULATJOX. to the lungs. 4. The ductus carteriosus (from the pulmonary artery to the aorta) is open. 5. The right and left ventricles are of equal thickness because they have equal work to do. Circulation of umbilical vein, iig. 29, bringing pure blood from the fetusplacenta, enters at the umbilicus, and passes to the under surface of the liver, where it sends off some small branches to the left lobe. At the transverse fissure it divides into two branches: one, the smaller, termed the 'ductus venosus; passes straight to the inferior vena cava; the other or right divisioi joins the vena porta, and after ramifying in the liver, returns its blood through the hepatic veins into the inferior vena cava. From the inferior vena cava, the blood enters the right auricle, and this stream (directed by the Eustachian valve) flows through the fora- men ovale into the left auricle. From the left auricle it runs into e aorta, into the great vessels of the head and the upper limbs, which are thus supplied by almost pure blood. From the head and the upper limbs, the blood returns (impure) through the superior vena cava into the right auricle, and flows into the right ventricle. From the right ventricle it passes throuah the pulmonary artery, and the 'ductus arteriosus,' into the third part of the arch of the aorta; only a very small quantity of it gomg to the lungs. From the aorta part of the blood is distri- buted to the pelvis and lower extremities; and part is conveyed through the umbilical arteries to the placenta, where it becomes punned. The following changes take place in the circulation after birth 1. The umbilical vein becomes obliterated from the second to the fifth day after birth, and subsequently forms the round liga- ment of the liver. ^ 2. The ductus venosus also becomes closed about the same period 3. The foramen ovale and ductus arteriosus become completelv closed from the sixth to the tenth day. ^_ The pulmonary arteries enlarge and convey impure blood to lungs These organs during foetal life receive only a small quantity of blood from these arteries.