31 THYEOID BODY. age it diminishes in size, becomes firmer, and occasionally contains earthy matter. But by far the most notable considerations in respect to the thyroid body are the number, the large size, and the free inoscula- tions of its blood-vessels. In fact, it appears to be composed of a tissue of arteries and veins. The superior thyroid arteries come from the external carotid and enter the front surface of the apex of eacli lobe; the inferior thyroid come from the subclavian, and enter the under surface of the base. An artery, called the middle thyroid, is observed in some subjects; it comes from the arteria innominata, or the arch of the aorta, and ascends directly in front of the trachea to the isthmus. Its veins are equally large, and form a plexus upon it. The superior and middle thyroid veins cross the common carotid, and open into the internal jugular. The inferior thyroid veins, two in number, descend over the front of the trachea, communicate freely with each other, and terminate in the left brachio-cephalic vein. When you perform tracheotomy, bear in mind the size of these infe- rior thyroid veins, and the possible existence of a middle thyroid artery. Its nerves are furnished by the laryngeal branch of the pneumo- gastric and the middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympa- thetic. They accompany the arteries. The thyroid body weighs from one to two ounces, and belongs Structure of ^'^ class of ductless glands, since no excretory duct the thyroid has been discovered. , It is invested by a thin covering gland. q£ condensed cellular tissue which penetrates into it, imperfectly dividing it into lobes and supporting the vessels as they enter it. It consists of a multitude of cells, which vary in size, and do not communicate with each other. Some of them may be recognised with the naked eye; but the greater number require the aid of the microscope. In hypertrophy of the gland we sometimes see them as large as a horsebean, or even larger, These cells are lined by a limitary membrane and contain a glairy transparent fluid, in which are found a large number of nuclei and nucleated cells. The arteries ramify most minutely