STYLOID MUSCLES. 94 At this stage of the dissection you will be able to trace the course and relations of the internal carotid artery. But before doing this, examine the several objects which intervene between the external and internal carotid. These are—1. The stylo-glossus, 2. The stylo-pharyngeus, 3. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve, 4. The etylo-hyoid ligament. This arises from the styloid process near the apex, ^*y^°" and the stylo-maxillary ligament, and is inserted along glosbus. ^.^^ tongue, external to the hyo-glossus. Its action is to retract the tongue. Its nerve comes from the hypo- glossal. This arises from the styloid process near the base, Stylo-plia- inserted into the posterior edge of the thyroid rjngeus. cartilage. It descends along the side of the pharynx between the superior and the middle constrictor. Curving round its lower border is seen the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Its nerve comes from the pharyngeal plexus. Its action is to raise the , larynx with the pharynx in deglutition. Between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus, and nearly parallel with both, is the stylo-hyoid ligament. It extends from the apex of the styloid process to the lesser cornu of the os- hyoides. It is often more or less ossified. The ascending ■palatine artery, a branch of the external maxil- lary or facial (p. 38), runs up between the stylo-glossus and the stylo-pharyngeus, and divides into branches which supply these muscles, the palate, the side of the pharynx, and the tonsils. It inosculates with the descending palatine, a branch of the internal maxillary. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve is observed ciirving for- Glosso-pba- ^ards under the lower border of the stylo-pharyngeus. ryngea nei-ve. divisions of the eighth pair. It arises by four or five filaments from the medulla oblongata in the groove between the olivary body and the restiform tract. It leaves the skull through the anterior part of the foramen lacerum posterius in front of the remaining divisions of the eighth pair, and descends between the internal jugular vein and the internal carotid artery.