520 DISSECTION OF TIIK BKAIN. and form some of the transverse fibres seen on the floor of the fourth ventricle. Pons Varolii convex eminence (p. 517) is situated at the or tuber base of the brain, immediatelv above the medulla ob- annu are. longata. It corresponds with the basilar groove of the occipital bone. In its antero-posterior diameter it measures rather more than an inch. Down the middle runs a slight groove which lodges the basilar artery. If the pia mater be carefully removed, we observe that its superficial fibres proceed transversely from one hemisphere of the cerebellum to the other, forming the The great 50 commissuro great commissure or middle peduncles of the cerebellar bellum'^'^'^" Throughout the mammalia its size bears a direct ratio to the degree of development of these lobes ; there- fore it is larger in man than in any other animal.* The super- ficial fibres only are transverse; if these be removed, we see that the anterior fibres of the medulla run under them at right angles into the criu-a cerebri, like a river under a bridge. The pons, like the medulla oblongata, has an imperfect median septum, composed of horizontal fibres, which come from the floor of the fourth ventricle. Besides the transverse and longitudinal fibres just described, the pons contains grey matter, which probably gives origin to fresh nerve fibres; so that the pons may be considered a source, as well as a conductor of power. The cerebnun, in man, is so much more developed Cerebrum. ^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^ hr&vo., that it completely overlays them. It is of an oval form and convex on its external aspect. It is divided in the middle line by the deep ' Longitudinal fissure' into two equal halves, tei-med the right and left hemi- spheres, f The fissure is occupied by the falx cerebri (p. 5). The * Birds, reptiles, and fishes have no pons, because there are no lateral lobes to the cerebellum. t Examples are now and then met with where the longitudinal fissure is not exactly in the middle line; the consequence of which want of symmeti^ is, that one hemi- sphere is larger than the other. Bichat (Recherches Physiologiques sur la Vie et la Mort, Paris, 1829) was of opinion that this anomaly exercised a deleterious influence on the intellect. It is remarkable that the examination of his own brain after death, went to prove the error of his own doctrine.