'252' DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE FOREARM. artery is accompanied by two veins which join the vena; comites of the brachial. The ulnar artery furnishes the following branches in the fore- arm :— The antenor and posterior ulnar recurrent arise immediately below the elbow-joint,—sometimes by a common trunk. The anterior passes upward between the brachialis anticus and the pronator teres, and inosculates with the inferior profunda and anastomotica magna. The posterior ascends between the flexor sublimis and the flexor profundus digitorum, to the space between the internal condyle and the olecranon: it then passes up between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris, where it inosculates with the same arteries as the anterior (p. 240). The common interosseous artery arises from the ulnar, about an inch and a half below the division of the brachial; and soon divides into the anterior and posterior interosseous, which we shall examine presently. The anterior and posterior carpal branches communicate with corresponding- branches from the radial, and supply the synovial membrane and bones of the carpus. This nerve runs behind the internal condyle, between Ulnar nerve. ^^^^^ origins of the flexor carpi ulnaris. In its course down the upper part of the forearm, the nerve is still covered by this muscle, and lies upon the flexor profundus digitorum. About the middle third of the forearm, the nerve joins the ulnar artery, and runs along its inner side over the annular ligament into the palm. The ulnar nerve gives off some filaments which are distributed to the elbow-joint, and supplies two muscles in the forearm ; namely, the flexor carpi ulnaris and the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum. About one inch and a half above the styloid process of the ulna, the nerve gives off a large cutaneous branch to the back of the hand. It°crosses under the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and, immediately below the styloid process of the ulna, appears on the back of the hand, where it divides into branches, which supply the