406 FEMALE PERINEUM. corpus spongiosum, or urethra. Like the penis, it is attached to the sides of the pubic arch by two crura (fig. 88, p. 407), each of which is grasped by its special erector clitoridia. The crura unite to form the body of the organ, which is tipped by a small glans. The glans is provided with extremely sensitive papillae, and covered by a little prepuce. Its dorsal arteries and nerves are exceedingly large in proportion to its size, and have precisely the same course and distribution as in the penis. Its internal structure consists of a plexus of blood vessels, which freely communicate with those of the labia minora, for one cannot be injected without the other- A smooth channel called the vestibule, three-quarters yretlira. .^^^ length, leads from the clitoris down to the orifice of the urethra. This orifice is not a perpendicular fissure like that of the penis, but rounded and puckered, and during life it has a peculiar dimple-Hke feel, which assists us in finding it when we pass a catheter. You should practice the introduction of the catheter in the dead subject, for the operation is not so easy as might at first be imagined, provided the parts are not exposed. The point of the fore-finger of the left hand should be placed at the entrance of the vagina, and the meatus felt for; when the catheter, guided by the finger, slips, after a little manoeuvring, into the urethra. The canal is about one inch and a half in length, and runs along the upper wall of the vagina (p. 410). The two canals adhere so closely together that you can feel the urethra through the vagina like a thick cord. The urethra is slightly curved with the concavity upwards; but for all practical purposes it may be considered straight. Its direction, however, is not hori- zontal. In the unimpregnated state of the parts it runs nearly m the direction of the axis of the outlet of the pelvis; so that a probe pushed on in the course of the urethra would strike against the promontory of the sacrum. But after impregnation, when the uterus begins to rise out of the pelvis, the bladder is more or less rai'sed also in consequence of their mutual connection ; therefore the urethra, in the latter months of utero-gestation, ac- quires a much more perpendicular course. The female urethra is provided with a ' compressor' muscle,