459 rUONT OF THE THIGH. Below the bursa is a layer of fascia lata, and under this is a network of arteries. The immediate covering of the bone, or what may be called its periosteum, is a strong expansion derived from the extensor tendon. This is interesting for the following reason: in ordinary fractures of the patella from muscular action the tendinous expansion over it is torn also ; the ends of the bone gape widely, and never unite except by ligament. But in fractures from direct mechanical violence, the tendinous expansion, being entire, maintains the fragments in apposition, so that there is commonly a bony union. The femoral artery is a continuation of the external COTTBSE AND ... "n-l RELATIONS OF iliac, ir'assmg beneath the crural arch at a point about THE FEMOEAi, midway between the spine of the ileum and the svm- ARTERY. •' physis pubis, it descends nearly perpendicularly along the front and inner side of the thigh. At the junction of the upper two-thirds with the lower third of the thigh, it passes through an opening in the tendon of the adductor magnus, and entering the ham, takes the name of ' popliteal' A line drawn from the point specified of the crural arch to the tubercle of the internal condyle would pretty nearly indicate the course of the artery. Its distance from the surface increases as it descends. Im- mediately under, and for a short distance below the crural arch, it is supported by the inner border of the psoas; lower down it runs in front of the pectineus, but separated from it by the profunda vessels; still lower down it lies upon the adductor longus, and ad- ductor maofnus. In the upper third of the thigh, the artery is situated in Scarpa's triangle, and is comparatively superficial, being covered only by the muscular fascia. About the middle third it is more deeply seated, and is covered by the sartorius : here, being placed among powerful muscles, it is protected from pressure by a tendinous canal, which will be presently examined. At the crural arch the anterior crural nerve is placed on the outer side of the artery, and the femoral vein on the inner side : as the vein descends, it gradually passes behind the artery. Both lie close together, and are inclosed in a common sheatli.