405 FE3IALE TElilNEUIM. THE DISSECTION OF THE FEMALE PEEINEUM. The 'pudenda in the female consist of folds of the integu- ment, called the labia. Between these is a longitudinal fissure which leads to the orifices of the urinary and genital canals. The pubic region is generally covered by an accumu- majdra. ^^^iou of fat, called ' Veneris: From this, two thick folds of skin descend, one on either side, consti- tuting the ' labia majora: Their junction, about one inch above the anus, is called the commissure, or 'frenulum labiorum:' it is generally torn in the first labour. The inner layer of the skin of the labium is thinner, softer, and more like mucous membrane than the outer : for this reason, whenever matter forms in the labium, the abscess bursts on the inner side. Where the labia are in contact, they are provided with small sebaceous glands, of which the minute ducts are observable on the surface. These glands sometimes inflame and secrete an acrid matter which creates great irritation and pruritus of the mucous surface of the vulva, often difficult to allay. Labia separating the external labia, two small and thin minora. ^^^^^ of integument are exposed, one on either side, termed 'labia minora: or, by the old anatomists, 'nymjohce: These folds converge anteriorly, and form a hood for the clitoris, called 'preputium clitoridis;' posteriorly they are gradually lost on the inside of the labia majora. They never contain fat, like the labia majora, but are composed of a minute plexus of veins. Between the nymphs and about the clitoris, are a number of sebaceous glands. Between the labia minora, and below the clitoris, is an angular depression called the 'vestibule: at the back of which is the orifice of the urethra, or ' meatus urinarius.' Immediately below this is the vagina, of which the orifice is partially closed in the virgin by a thin fold of mucous membrane called the 'hymen.' Clitoris. ^^^^ structure the clitoris resembles the penis on a very diminutive scale; but there is no