475 GLUTiEAL REGION. the ischiatic artery, and the pudic artery and nerve. Coming through the lesser ischiatic notch, we see the tendon of the obturator internus, and attached to it are the geraelli muscles, one above, the other below it. Extending from the tuber ischii trans- versely outward to the great trochanter is the quadratus femoris, and below this is seen the upper part of the adductor magnus. The origins of the semimembranosus, biceps, semitendinosus, and of the adductor magnus, from the tuber ischii, are also seen; as well as the great sacro-ischiatic ligament passing upwards to the sacrum. Lastly, the great trochanter is exposed, together with a small portion of the vastus externus; and where the tendon of the glutseus maximus plays over the trochanter major, there is a large bursa, simple or multilocular. I have seen it in some subjects sufficiently capacious to hold half a pint of fluid. This muscle arises from the surface of the ileum, be- Grl tSBU medius.^ tween the crest and the upper curved line; also from the strong fascia which covers it towards the front. The fibres converge to a tendon which is inserted into the upper and outer surface of the great trochanter: some of the anterior fibres —in immediate connection with the tensor fasciae—terminate on the aponeurosis of the thigh. Eeflect the glutseus medius to see the third glutseal muscle. The line of separation between them is marked by a large branch of the glutaeal artery. This muscle arises from the surface of the ileum below minimus. upper curved Ime. Its fibres pass over the capsule of the hip-joint, and converge to a tendon which is inserted into a depression on the front part of the great trochanter. This muscle and the preceding are supplied by the glutseal nerve. Between the tendon of the last two muscles and the great tro- chanter are two small bursse. The chief action of this and the preceding muscle is to assist in balancing the pelvis steadily on the thigh, as when we are standing on one leg; with the fixed point at the ileum, it is an abductor of the thigh. The anterior fibres of the glutseus medius co-operate with the tensor fascifse in rotating the thigh inwards.