34 CENTRAL LINE OF THE NECK. inembrane. If more room be required, the cricoid cartilage should be divided longitudinally. In tracheotomy, the trachea is opened by a perpendicular inci- sion, either above the isthmus of the thyroid body, or below it. The operation above the isthmus, if there be space enough for the introduction of the canula, is the easier and safer of the two; for here the tracliea is nearer to the surface, and no large blood- vessels are, generally speaking, in the way. The space available measures from a quarter to half an inch ; and the isthmus is not so firmly adherent to the trachea as to prevent its being drawn downwards for a short distance. However, it is right to state, that in one case out of every eight or ten, there is no available space. .• Tracheotomy below the isthmus is neither an easy nor a safe operation, for many reasons: 1. The trachea recedes from the surface as it descends, so that just above the sternum it is nearly an inch and a half from the skin. 2. The large inferior thyroid veins are in the way. 3. A middle thyroid artery may run up in front of the trachea, direct from the arteria innominata. 4. The arteria innominata itself lies sometimes upon the trachea higher than usual, and may, therefore, be in danger. 5. The left brachio- cephalic vein in some cases crosses the trachea above the edge of the sternum instead of below it. The celebrated French surgeon Beclard used to relate in his lectures the following occurrence :— A student had fallen into the Seine, and was nearly drowned. As he was recovering very gradually, some kind friends attempted to accelerate the process by making an opening into the trachea. In so doing they wounded the brachio-cephalic vein. Blood poured into the trachea, and the result was instantly fatal. Some surgeons advocate the practice of dividing the isthmus vertically, in' order to get at the trachea beneath it. Let such surgeons remember that an artery, which would bleed freely if divided, generally runs along the upper edge of the isthmus. The artery is a branch of the superior thyroid, and inosculates with a corresponding branch on the opposite side. Whoever pays attention to this subject in the dissecting-room