496 SOLTS OF THE FOOT. the tendons are confined by fibrous sheaths, and lubricated by a synovial lining, what was said of the fingers (p. 262) applies equally to the toes. The flexor accessorius is supplied by the external plantar nerve. ^ , . , These four little muscles are placed between the long Lumbricales. ^ , flexor tendons. Each, excepting the most internal, arises from the adjacent sides of two tendons, proceeds forwards, and then sinking between the toes, terminates in an aponeurosis which passes round the inner side of the four outer toes, and joins the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the toes. Concerning their use, refer to p. 264. The two outer lumbricales are supplied by the external plantar nerve, the two inner by the internal plantar. Now trace the long flexor tendon of the great toe. From the groove in the astragalus it runs along the groove in the lesser tuberosity of the os calcis, above the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, and then straight to the base of the last phalanx. Observe that it crosses the long flexor tendon of the toes, and that the two tendons are connected by an oblique slip; so that we can- not bend the other toes without the great toe. The posterior tibial artery, having entered the sole Plantar between the origins of the abductor pollicis, divides AKTEHiBs. .^^^ external and internal plantar arteries. The internal plantar artery is very small: it passes forwards between the abductor pollicis and the flexor brevis digitorum to the base of the great toe, where it terminates in small inoscu- lations with the digital arteries. Its chief use is to supply the muscles between which it runs. The external plantar is the principal artery of the sole, and alone forms the plantar arch. It runs obUquely outwards across the sole towards the base of the fifth metatarsal bone; then, sinking deep from the surface, it bends inwards across the bases of the metatarsal bones, and inosculates with the anterior tibial in the first interosseous space. In the first part of its course, it Hes between the flexor brevis digitorum and the flexor accessorius; m the second it lies very deep beneath the flexor tendons, and the adductor pollicis, close to the metatarsal bones. Deeply seated as