a>;atomy of the i'ejvis. 401 stream of the urine. Most of them are on the lower surface of the urethra; but one called ' lacuna magna' is on the upper sur- face about H inch down the canal. The mucous membrane of the urethra is laid upon a substratum of areolar tissue. Then comes a thin layer of elastic fibrous tissue of which the fibres are arranged in a longitudinal and a transverse direction—giving the parts that springiness of which we are sensible in introducing the catheter. Outside this is a layer of muscular fibre. It has been demonstrated that the urethra is surrounded throughout its whole course by muscular fibres of the involuntary kind. Therefore, the whole of the canal having a muscular coat, similar to an intestine, any part of it is liable to spasmodic contraction. The urethra is lined byspheroidal epithelium, and near the glans is provided with papiUje: this, therefore, is the most sensitive part. Lastly, the urethra is provided with a closely-set network of absorbent vessels,—a fact which has been demonstrated by the beautiful quicksilver injections of Panizza.* They run from behind, forwards, and join the absorbents of the glans penis. Eventually, their contents are transmitted down the great trunks on the dorsum penis to the inguinal glands. This explains the pathology of a bubo. Anaton^yof , '^^^ P"^^^ remarkably thin and ex- the penis. tensible, and connected to the body of the organ by loose cellular tissue, destitute of fat. At the extremity the skm forms the prepuce, or foreskin, for the protection of the glans; f and the thin fold which passes from the under surface of * Osservazioni antropo-zootom. &c., Pavia, 1830. This anatomist has also displayed by injections an extremely fine network of absorbents which coTer the glans penis The interstices of this network are smaller than the diameter of the tubes ' t ^ hen the foreskin is, from birth, so tight that the glans cannot be uncovered, such a s ate is called a ' congenital phimosis.' This condition occasions no inconrenie;ce n ch Idhood, but IS apt, after puberty, to become troublesome and painful, so that t may WrATT'', ° '''''''''' ^^'^ '''' gl-^ liberty, in persons who have a tight foreskin, it sometimes happens that, when the glans has been uncovered the prepuce cannot be again cbawn over it: this is called a ' paraphymosis.' ZTel of the glans becomes tightly girt; great distention and inflammatSn are the con e- quences, and serious results may ensue, unless the foreskin be reduced D D