3G0 CONTENTS OF THE MALE PELVIS. the pelvis corresponds with a line drawn from the anus to the umbilicus.* Contents of '^'^^^ pelvis contains the last part of the intestinal THE MAXE canal, named the ' rectum,' the bladder with the pros- PELvis. ^^^g gland at the neck, and the vesiculse seminales. If the bladder be empty, some of the small intestines will be in the pelvis; not so if the bladder be distended. The rectum enters the pelvis on the left side of the SiTrectiim sacrum, and, after describing a ctirve corresponding with the concavity of the sacrum, terminates at the anus. In the first part of its course, it is loosely connected to the back of tlie pelvis by a peritoneal fold, called the ' meso-rectum:' be- tween the layers of this fold the terminal branches (superior hemorrhoidal) of the inferior mesenteric vessels with nerves and absorbents run to the bowel. It is worth remembering that the rectum does not take this course in all cases; sometimes it makes one, or even two lateral curves. In some rare cases it enters the pelvis on the right side instead of the left. Since these variations from the usual arrange- ment cannot be ascertained during life, they should make us cautious in the introduction of bougies.f Whilst the parts are still undisturbed, introduce the Recto-vesical gjiggr into what is called the recto-vesical ^peritoneal pouch (fig. 73). This is a cul-de-sac formed by the peritoneum in passing from the front of the rectum to the lower and back part of the bladder. In the adult male subject, the bottom of this pouch is about one inch distant from the base of the * In a well-formed female the base of the saeriun is about four inches higher than the upper part of the symphysis pubis, and the point of the coccyx is rather more than half an inch higher than the lower part of the symphysis. The obliquity of the pelns is greatest in early life. In the foetus, and in young childi-en, its capacity is small; and the viscera, which subsequently belong to it, are situated in the abdomen. t In old age the rectum has sometimes a zig-zag appearance immediately above the anus. These lateral inclinations are probably produced by the enormous distentions to which the bowel has been occasionally subjected.