102 DISSECTION OF THE CHEST. admirably disposed to fulfil two important conditions. By tbeir solidity and elasticity they protect the important organs contained in them; by their alternate dilatation and contraction they act as mechanical powers of respiration. For they can increase the cavity of the chest in three directions: in height, by the descent of the diaphragm ; in width, by the turning outwards of the ribs ; and in depth, by the elevation of the sternum. The chest of the female differs from that of the male in the following points:—Its general capacity is less; the sternum is shorter ; the upper opening is larger iu proportion to the lower ; the upper ribs are more movable, and therefore permit a greater enlargement of the chest at its upper part, in adaptation to the condition of the abdomen during pregnancy. In the dissection of the chest let us take the parts in the following order:— 1. Triangularis sterni, with the internal mammary artery. 2. Anterior mediastinum. 3. Eight and left brachio-cephalic veins and superior vena cava 4. Course and relations of the arch of the aorta. 5. The three great branches of the arch, 6. Course of the phrenic nerves. 7. Position and relations of the heart. 8. Pericardium. 9. Pleiira. 10. Position and form of the lungs. 11. Posterior mediastinum and its contents; namely, the aorta, the thoracic duct, the vena a^ygos, the cesophagus, and pneumogastric nerves. 12. Sympathetic nerve. 13. Intercostal muscles, vessels, and nerves. 14. Cardiac plexus of nerves. An opening must be made into the chest, by carefully removing the upper four-fifths of the sternum, and the cartilages of all the true ribs.* In doing this, care must be taken not to wound the pleura, which is closely connected with the cartilages. On one * Those who are more proficient in dissection should not remove ^^^^ "J^^^ «^«rnum but leave say a quarter of an inch of its upper part with the first r.b attached :rr Thi Me portion serves as a valuable landmark, although it obstructs, to a certain extent, the view of the subjacent vessels.