EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 355 plane. The artery, with its vein, is bound down upon the psoas by a thin layer of fascia derived from the iliac. There are two other circumstances of practical interest respecting this artery: 1. A slender nerve, the genito-crural, runs close to its outer side ; 2. Just before it leaves the pelvis it is crossed by the circumflexa ilii vein. The branches given off by this artery are :— The epigast7'ic, already described (p. 322). The circumflexa ilii, which arises just above the crural arch, and running towards the spine of the ilium in a sheath formed for it by the fascia iliaca, subsequently perforates the transversalis muscle.* In the dissection of the abdominal muscles (p. 313), the continuation of it was seen skirting the crest of the ilium between the internal oblique and the transversalis, and sending a branch upwards between these muscles for their supply. The main trunk, much reduced in size, inosculates with the ilio-lumbar derived from the internal iliac. How to tie The easiest way of tying the external iliac is to make ^l|e^extemal a curved incision at the lower part of the abdomen, beginning a little above the middle of the crural arch, and ending a Httle beyond the spine of the ilium. The strata of the abdominal muscles, with the fascia transversalis, should then be divided to the same extent; after which, the peritoneum must be separated by the fingers from the iliac fossa. It is necessary to make a small incision through the sheath of the vessel, to facilitate the passage of the needle. Eemember that the vein is closely connected to its inner side,t and that the genito-crural nerve is not far off. * The coui-se of this artery should be borne in mind in opening iliac abscesses. t This relative position of the vessels must not always be taken for granted. In old subjects, less frequently in adults, it is sometimes found that the external iliac artery runs very tortuously, instead of nearly straight, along the brim of the pelvis. But the vem does not foUow the artery in its windings, and may possibly lie outside the artery just where we propose to place the ligature. ^ The mode of performing the operation described in the text is recommended by ..IT A. Cooper. Mr. Abernethy, however, who first set the example of tying this artery, in 1796, adopted a somewhat different proceeding. He says: 'I first made an incision about three inches in length through the integuments of the abdomen, in