DISSECTIOX or THE PALM OF THE HAND. 256 This small cutaneous muscle is situated on the inner Palmaris side of the palm. It arises from the inner edare of the central palmar fascia, and terminates in the skin on the inner side of the palm. Its use is to support the pad on the inner edge of the palm: it acts powerfully as we grasp; it raises the edge of the palm and hollows it, forming the ' cup of Diogenes.' It is supplied by the ulnar nerve. This fascia has a silvery lustre, and, in the centre of Palmar the palm, is remarkably dense and strong. It is divided into three portions, a central—by far the strongest; an external, covering the muscles of the thumb; and an internal, covering the muscles of the little finger. From the deep surface of the fascia two septa dip down, so as to divide the palm into three separate compartments; one for the ball of the thumb, a second for that of the little finger, and a third for the centre of the palm. The fascia is formed by a prolongation from the anterior annular ligament. It is also strengthened by the expanded tendon of the palmaris longus. The central portion of the fascia is triangular, with the apex at the wrist. About the middle of the palm it splits into four portions, which are connected by transverse tendinous fibres, extending com- pletely across the palm, and corresponding pretty nearly to the transverse furrow of the skin in this situation. Examine any one of these four portions of the fascia, and you will find that it splits into two strips which embrace the corre- sponding flexor tendons, and are intimately connected with the transverse metacarpal ligament. The eff"ect of this is that the flexor tendons of each finger are kept in place in the palm, by a fibrous ring. Between the four divisions of the palmar fascia the digital vessels and nerves emerge, and descend in a line with the clefts between the fingers. In the hands of mechanics, in whom the palmar fascia is usually very strong, we find that slips of it are Inst in the skin at the lower part of the palm, and also for a short distance along the sides of the fingers.