183 DISSECTION OF THE OUniT. in the background than the rest. The tendon of the internal rectus is nearer to the cornea than either of the others. The superior rectus must now be reflected : in doing so, observe the branch from the upper division of the third nerve, which supplies it and the levator palpebrse. After the removal of a quantity of fat, we expose the following objects:—1, the optic nerve; 2, the nasal nerve, the ophthalmic artery and vein, all of which cross over the optic nerve from without inwards ; 3, the inferior part of the third nerve; 4, deeper towards the back of the orbit, between the optic nerve and the external rectus, is situated the ' ophthalmic or lenticular ' ganglion ; and 5, the sixth nerve entering the ocular aspect of the rectus externus. , This is one of the three divisions of the ophthalmic ^asal nerve. '■ branch of the fifth pair (p. 178). It enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure between the two origins of the external rectus, and then crosses obliquely over the optic nerve towards the inner wall of the orbit. After giving off the infra- trochlear branch, the nerve runs out of the orbit between the superior oblique and internal rectus, through the foramen orbi- tale anterius, into the cranium, where it lies beneath the dura mater, upon the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. However, it soon leaves the cranium through a slit near the ' crista galli,' and enters the nose. Here it sends filaments to the mucous membrane of the upper part of the septum, and superior spongy bone; bat the main continuation of the nerve runs behind the nasal bone, becomes superficial between the bone and the cartilage, and, under the name of naso-lobular, is distributed to the skin of the ala and tip of the nose. The nasal nerve gives off the following branches in the orbit:—-- a. One or two slender filaments to the lenticular ganglion, forming its upper or long root. h. One or two long ciliai^ nerves. They run to the back of the globe of the eye, and pass through the sclerotic coat to supply the iris. c. Infra-trochlear nerve.—This runs below the pulley of the superior oblique, where it communicates with the supra-trochlear