3l(T PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA, through a wound of the abdominal wall. The protection is proved by the hard blow which the abdomen will stand provided its muscles are on their guard; 2, They are the principal muscles concerned in forcible expiration ; 3. By compressing the viscera in conjunction with the diaphragm, they are the chief agents in the expulsion of the fseces and urine, also in vomiting, sneezing, laughing, cough- ing ; 4. They act, each in its own way, as movers of the trunk; e. g. the right external oblique, co-operating with the left internal oblique, can draw the trunk towards the left side, and vice versa. The recti raise the body from the horizontal position, as any one may ascertain by laying the hand on the abdomen while rising from the ground. EXAMINATION OP THE PAETS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. G eral idea Having proceeded so far in the examination of the Jthrsub-^^ abdominal wall, now turn your attention to the anatomy •i®^'^- of the parts concerned in inguinal hernia. The testicle, originally formed in the loins, passes, about the eighth month of foetal life, from the abdomen into the scrotum, through an oblique canal in the wall of the abdomen, called the ' inguinal canaV A portion of peritoneum is pouched out before the'testicle, and constitutes the tunica vaginalis testis. The blood vessels, nerves, and excretory duct are drawn down after the testicle' and form the spermatic cord. The inguinal canal is valvular and runs obliquely, so that the abdominal wall may the better resist protrusion of the viscera. The wall of the abdomen, as previously stated, is composed of «trata of different structures, and we shall presently find that the spermatic cord, as it passes through each stratum, derives from each a covering similar in structure to the stratum itself. Of these strata there are three: the first-that is, the aponeurosis of the external oblique-is called the ' aponeurotic stratum ;' the second- that is, the internal oblique and transversalis muscles—is called the 'muscular stratum;'the third—namely, the fascia transversalis,