544 SPINAL CORD. DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. To see the spinal cord covered by its membranes, the arches of the vertebrsB must be removed by the saw. The first thing to be noticed is, that the cord does not occupy the whole area of the spinal canal. The dura mater does not adhere to the vertebra, and does not form their internal periosteum, as in the skull. Between the bones and this membrane, a space intervenes, which is filled by a soft, reddish-looking fat, by watery cellular tissue, and by the ramifications of a plexus of veins. The spine is remarkable for the number of large and Spinal system tortuous veins which ramify about it, inside and outside °^ the vertebral canal.* They are—1. The dorsal veins, which form a tortuous plexus outside tlie arches of the vertebrae. They send off branches, which pass through the ligamenta sub- flava, and end in the plexus inside the vertebral canal. 2. The veins from the bodies of the vertebrce emerge from their posterior surface, and empty themselves into, 3, the anterior longitudinal spinal veins: these, two in number, extend all down the spinal canal, behind the bodies of the vertebrae. 4. The postei-ior longi- tudinal spinal veins, like the anterior, run along the whole length of the spinal canal. They are situated inside the vertebral arches, and communicate with the anterior longitudinal veins by cross branches at frequent intervals. 5. The proper veins of the spinal cord, which lie within the dura mater. This complicated system of spinal veins discharges itself through the intervertebral fora- mina, in the several regions of the spine, as follow:—in the cervical, into the vertebral veins ; in the dorsal, into the inter- costal veins; in the lumbar, into the lumbar veins. None are provided with valves, hence they are liable to become congested m diseases of the spine. * An accui-ate description and representation of these veins has been given by Breschet, Essai sur les Veines dn Eachis, 4to.; Traits Anatomiqne sur le Systfeme Veineux, fol. avec planches.