536 DISSECTION OF THE liKAIN. The fornix should now be cut tlirough, and its two portions reflected. On the under surface of the posterior portion is seen a number of fibres arranged transversely, constituting what is termed the lyra. Between the fornix and the upper surface of the cerebellum is the ' transverse fissure, ov fissure of Bichat,'' through which the pia mater enters the ventricles. The fissure extends downwards on each side to the base of the brain, and terminates between the crus cerebri and the middle lobe. It is of a horse-shoe shape, with the concavity directed forwards. ^ . ^ The velum interpositum, which supports the fornix, positum and should now be examined. This is a portion of the pia choroid mater, which penetrates into the ventricles through the fissure of Bichat, beneath the posterior border of the corpus callosum, as shown at p. 530. The shape of this vascular veil is like that of the fornix, and its borders are rolled up so as to form the red fringe called the ' choroid plexus.' These plexuses consist almost entirely of the tortuous ramifications of minute arteries.* In front, they communicate with each other through the foramen of Monro ; behind, they descend with the middle horns of the lateral ventricles, and become continuous with the pia mater at the base of the brain, between the middle lobe of the cerebrum and the crus cerebri. From the under surface of the velum, two small vascular processes are prolonged into the third ventricle forming the choroid plexuses of that cavity. Vense Along the centi-e of the veil run two large veins, called ^ ' vence GalenV which return the blood from the ventri- "5 IP. cles into the straight sinus The velum interpositum, with the choroid plexus, must now be reflected to expose the following parts shown in diagram 129: — 1. A full view of the thalamus opticus. 2. Between the thalami optici is the ' third ventricle of the brain,' a deep vertical fissure, situated in the middle line. 3. Behind the fissure is the 'pineal * In preparations where the choroid plexus is well injected, we see that they are covered with beautiful vascular villi. The villi themselves are covered with epi- IheUum.