DISSECTION OP THE EAll. 572 diameter of the tympanum is rather less than half an inch, its vertical and transverse diameter about a quarter of an inch. Tlie cavity is bounded by a roof, a floor, an external, an internal, an anterior, and a posterior wall. Its roof and jioor are formed by thin plates of bone. Its external wall is formed by the membrana tympani, and partly by bone; the latter is pierced by the fissura Glasseri, and the canal for the exit of the chorda tympani nerve. The internal wall presents the following objects, beginning from above: aridge indicating the line of the aqueductus Fallopii; the 'fenestra ovalis,'' which leads into the vestibule of the internal ear, but is closed in the recent state by a membrane, to which is attached the base of the stapes. Below the fenestra ovalis is a bony prominence, the 'promontory;^ it is occasioned by the first turn of the cochlea, and is marked by grooves, in which lie the branches of the tympanic plexus of nerves. Still lower is the ^fenestra rotunda;' it leads into the scala tympani of the cochlea, but is closed in the recent state by membrane. Immediately behind the fenestra ovalis, is a small conical eminence, named the 'pyramid;^ in the summit of which is a minute aperture, from which the tendon of the stapedius emerges. The posterior wall presents a large opening which leads into the mastoid cells, and conveys air into them from the tympanum. The anterior wall leads into the ^Eustachian tube,'' and the ' canal for the tensor tympani,'' which are separated from each other by a bony septum, the 'processus cochleariformis.' Lastly, a nerve called the chorda tympani (a branch of the portio dura) runs across it. The membrana tympani completely closes the bottom Membrana q£ ^.-^^ meatus auditorius. It is nearly circular, and its tympani. ... circumference is set m a bony groove, so that it as stretched somewhat like the parchment of a drum on the outer wall of the tympanum. Its plane is not vertical, but slants from above downwards, forming, with the lower part of the meatus, an angle of 45° : it is slightly conical, the apex being directed inwards towards the tympanum, and firmly xtnited to the handle of the small bone called the ' malleus.' The structure of the membrane