224 DISSECTION OF THE AXILLA. the mammary gland. The posterior pass backwards over the latissimus dorsi, and are distributed to the skin covering this muscle and the scapula. Intercosto- "^^^^ perforating branch of the second intercostal humeral nerve requires a special description; it is larger than nerves. others, and is called the ' intercosto-humeral,^ be- cause it supplies the integuments of the arm. It comes through the second intercostal space, traverses the upper part of the axilla, where it receives a branch of the lesser internal cutaneous nerve (nerve of Wrisberg), and terminates in filaments, which are dis- tributed to the skin on the inner side of the arm, as low as the internal condyle. The perforating branch of the third intercostal is also an ' intereosto-humeral' nerve. It receives a branch from the second, and rxms a similar course. The distribution of these nerves may account for the pain down the arm which is sometimes experienced in pleurisy. Boundaries The axilla may be described as a conical space, of of the axilla, which the Summit is beneath the clavicle, and the base between the pectoralis major and the latissimus dorsi. Now, what are its boundaries ? On the inner side, it is bounded by the ribs, covered by the serratus magnus; on the outer side by the humerus, covered by the coraco-brachialis and biceps; in front by the pectoralis major and minor; behind by the latissimus dorsi, teres major, and subscapularia. Its anterior and posterior boundaries converge from the chest, so that the axilla becomes narrower towards the arm. With a full view of the axilla before you, think what serious consequences may follow suppuration here ; the matter may burrow under tlie pectoral muscles, or under the scapula, or it may run up beneath the clavicle and point in the neck. Axillary "^^^ axillary glands form a continuous chain beneath absorbent the clavicle, with the cervical glands. They are from glands. twelve to fifteen in number, of a reddish brown colour, and variable size. Most of them lie near some large blood-vessel; others are imbedded in the loose tissue of the axilla; sometimes one or two small ones are observed along the lower border of the