145 STKUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. like appearance. This is not the natural colour of the organ, since it is produced in the act of dying. It depends upon the stagnation, of the venous blood, which the right ventricle still propels into the lungs, though respiration is failing. The tint varies in particular situations in proportion to the accumulation of the blood, and is always the deepest at the back of the lung. But the colour of the proper tissue of the lung apart frona the blood which it contains is pale and light grey. This colour is seldom seen except in the lungs of infants who have never breathed, or after death from profuse hgemorrhage. Upon or near the surface of the lungs, numerous dark spots are observed, which do not depend upon the blood, since they are seen in the palest lungs. They vary in number and size, and increase with age. The source "of these discolourations is not exactly known; but they are probably deposits of minute particles of carbonaceous matter which have been inhaled with the air. Trachea '^^^^ ^ partly membranous, partly cartilaginous tube, which proceeds from the larynx opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, and divides about the third dorsal vertebra into two tubes, called the right and left bronchi, one for each lung. Its length is from four to four and a half inches. Its transverse diameter is about eight or ten lines in the adult, but it varies according to the age of the individual, and the natural volume of the lungs. It is kept permanently open by a series of cartilaginous rings, from sixteen to twenty in number, which extend round the anterior two-thirds of its circumference. These rings are deficient at the posterior part of the tube, where it is completed by fibrous membrane. This deficiency is for the pur- pose of allowing the trachea to expand or contract; and the membranous part of the tube is provided with transverse muscular fibres which can approximate the ends of the rings. Bronchi. bronchi differ in length, direction and diameter. The o^ight, shorter than the left, is about an inch in length, and passes more horizontally to the root of its lung. It is larger in all its diameters than the left; hence, foreign bodies which have accidentally dropped into the trachea are more