414 CONTENTS or FEMALE PELVIS. the broad ligament, and then ascends tortuously by the side of the uterus, giving off ntimerous branches to it, which anastomose freely with each other. The fundus of the uterus is mainly supplied with branches from the ovarian arteries. The vaginal artery ramifies along the side of the vagina, and sends branches to the lower part of the bladder and the rectum. The veins, corresponding with the arteries, form the uterine and vaginal plexuses, which empty themselves into the internal iliac. The nerves of the uterus are derived from the third Nerves of the fourth sacral nerves, and from the hypogastric plexus (p. 356). They accompany the blood vessels in the broad ligament to the neck of the uterus, and ascend with them along the sides of the organ. Some very small filaments continue with the vessels, and form around them plexuses, upon which, according to the dissections of Mr. Beck,* minute ganglia are found. But most of the nerves soon leave the vessels, and, subdividing, sink into the substance of the uterus, chiefly about its neck and the lower part of its body. A branch may be traced passing up to the fundus of the uterus, and another to the Fallopian tube. Whether the nerves of the uterus enlarge during pregnancy, like the arteries, is a question still undecided. Surgically speak- ing, the OS uteri may be said to have no nerves; for it is insensible to the cautery and to the knife. The absorbent vessels of the uterus are small m its unim- pregnated state, but greatly increase in size when it is gravid. Those from the fundus and the ovaries proceed with the ovanan vessels to the lumbar glands; thus explaining the affection of these glands in ovarian disease. Those from the body and the lower part of the uterus accompany the uterine artery, and join the glands in the pelvis; some, however, run with the round ligament to the groin ; hence, in certain conditions of the uterus, the inguinal glands may be affected. * Philosophical Transactions for 1846.