PAKTS CONCEKNED IN FEMOliAL llEKNIA. 451 position of the neighbouring blood vessels indicates that the proper direction in which to divide the stricture is, either directly inwards, through Grimbernat's ligament, as recommended by Mr. Lawrence, or upwards through Hey's ligament, as recommended by Sir A. Cooper.* There is no risk of wounding an artery, supposing the vessels to talce their ordinary course. But it occasionally happens (as observed p. 388), that the obturator artery runs above (in the re- cumbent position) the femoral ring ; in such a case, the neck of the sac would be encircled by a large blood vessel.f From the exami- nation of two hundred bodies, the chances are about seventy to one against this unfavourable distribution. But the possibility of it has given rise to this rule in practice—not to cut deeply in any one place through the stricture, but rather to notch it in several. By this proceeding we are much less likely to wound the abnormal artery, because it does not run at the base of Grimbernat's liga- ment, but about a line and a half from the margin of it.$ Such is an outline of the anatomy of the parts concerned in a femoral hernia. The normal anatomy in each case being nearly the same, it might be supposed that all operations for the relief of this kind of hernia would be straightforward and pretty much alike; hut this is very far from being the case : indeed, surgeons agree that they never take the knife in hand without the ex- pectation of meeting some peculiarity. The fascia must now be removed from the front of the thigh, without disturbing the subjacent muscles from their relative positions. The mass of muscles, on the inner side of the thigh, * The operation recommended by Sir A. Cooper is that usually performed now because, if Gimbernafs ligament be di^-ided, its cut edges often retract to such an ex' tent that no truss can possibly retain the hernia when the patient assumes the erect posture. t The museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital contains two examples of double fe- moral hemm m the male with the obturator arising on each side from the epigastric. In three out of the fo^u• herni. the obturator runs on the inner side of the mouth of the sac. See Prep. 55, 69, Series 1/. J n?r'T "^t,'''''""" '^'^-'^ l^^lf ^ 'J«^en instances occurred where the obturator artery was g.ven off by a common origin with the epigasU-ic artery. In aU these cases, however, the artery passed close by the bone, so that it woidd not hare been injured in the operation for relief of strangulation. G G 2