14 EXTERNAL JUGULAR VKIX. Tlie platysma forms a strong muscular defence for the neck. It is also a muscle of expression.* It is supplied with nerves h}' the cervical plexus, and by the cervical branch of the facial nerve. Cut through the platysma near the clavicle and turn it upwards. Beneath it lies the general investment of the neck, called the ' de&p cervical fascia.'' Upon this fascia, we trace the superficial branches of the cervical plexus of nerves, the external jugular vein, and a smaller vein in front, called the anterior jugular. These superficial veins are so variable in size and course, that a general description only is applicable. External '^^^ external jugular vein is formed within the sub- jugular stance of the parotid gland by the junction of the temporal and internal maxillary veins. After receiving the transverse facial and posterior auricular veins, it appears at the lower border of the gland, crosses obliquely over the sterno- maatoid muscle (Fig. 5), to its posterior border, nearly as low down as the clavicle, where it pierces the deep cervical fascia and terminates in the subclavian vein. It is usually provided with two pairs of valves. A line drawn from the angle of the jaw to the middle of the clavicle would indicate its course. To trace the vein, during life, press upon it just above the clavicle; but do not be surprised if you fail to find it; it is sometimes wanting. Near the angle of the jaw the external jugular vein communi- cates by a large branch with the internal jugular. * K the entire muscle be pei-manently contracted it may occasion wry-neck, though distortion from such a cause is an exceedingly rare occurrence. A case in point is telated by Mr. Gooch {Chirurg. Works), in which a complete cure was effected, after the failure of all ordinary means of relief, by the division of the platysma a little below the jaw. The platysma myoides belongs to a class of muscles called 'cutaneous; from their oiRce of moving the skin. There are not many in man, except upon the neck and face, and there is a little one {palmaris brevis) in the palm of the hand. To understand their use thoroughly we must refer to the lower orders of animals, in whom they fulfil very important functions, by moving not only the skin, but also its appendages. For instance, by muscles of this kind the hedgehog, porcupine, and animals of that family can roll themselves up and erect their quills: we are all familiar with the broad •pan- nicidus carnosus' on the sides of herbivorous quadrupeds, which enables them to twitch their skins, and thus rid themselves from insects. In birds, too, these cutaneous muscles are extremely numerous, each feather having appropriate muscles to move it.