IIG CONTENTS OF FEMALE I'KLVIS. however, and the general appearance of the vaginal part of the cervix vary according to the age of the individual; it is also con- siderably altered by parturition. In the adult virgin it is smooth and round, and projects about half an inch : its mouth is a small transverse fissure. But after parturition, it loses its plumpness, the lips become flaccid and fissured, and the mouth larger than it was before.* The uterus must now be laid open by a longitudinal incision, to examine its interior. In doing so, observe the thickness of its walls, which is greatest towards the fundus. Before coming into the proper cavity in the body of the uterus, you must slit up a long narrow canal which leads up into it through the neck. This canal is not of the same dimensions throughout: it is dilated in the middle, and gradually narrows towards each end. The upper end, which leads into the body of the uterus, is called * os internum; the lower end, which leads into the vagina, ' os externum: The passage is called the ' canal of the cervix: It remains unchanged in pregnancy for some time after the cavity in the body has ex- panded, but gradually disappears with the increasing size of the embryo. The shape of the cavity in the body of the uterus is triangular, with the apex towards the cervix. In a virgin uterus the cavity is very small, and its sides are convex; but in a uterus which has borne many children, the cavity has lost the convexity of its sides, and has increased in capacity. Each angle at the base is some- what prolonged, and leads to the minute opening of the Fallopian tube. This prolongation of the angles is noticed more or less m Busch, and others, say the anterior is the longer ; Mayer, Meckel, Quain, and others, '^*^Ins\Tces are recorded in which the neck of the uterus is preternaturally long. It has been known to project even as much as an inch and a ^alf >nto tUe va jna. In such rases it gradually tapers, and terminates in a very nan-ow mouth. This is sa d te one cause of sterility, and it is recommended either to ddate *e -u^ to cut off a portion of the neck. In support of this opinion, it is stated ^J=^t DuP„ytren was once'consulted by a lady on account of barrenness ; finding the neck of A-^™ unusually elongated, he removed a portion of it, and in due time the lady became pregnant. (Hyrtl, Haudbuch der top. Anatom.)