280 TRICEPS. Now reflect the muscles from the surfaces of the scapula, to trace the arteries which ramify upon it. ^. This artery, a branch of the thyroid axis, runs under of supra- parallel with the clavicle, and passes above the scapulai- notch of the scapula, into the supra-spinal fossa: it artery. •■ , , , . , , sends a branch to the supra-spinatus, another to the shoulder-joint, and then descends over the neck of the scapula into the fossa below the spine, where it inosculates directly with the dorsalis scapulae. Its branches ramify upon the bone, and supply the infra-spinatus and teres minor. The supra-scapular nerve passes most frequently through the notch of the scapula, accompanies the corresponding artery, and supplies the supra and infra-spinatus. Dorsalis '^^^^ artery, after passing through the triangular scapulse space (p. 229), curves round the inferior border of the artery. scapula, which it sometimes grooves, to the infra- spinous fossa, where it ascends close to the bone, and anasto- moses with the supra and posterior scapula arteries. The frequent communications about the scapula between the branches of the subclavian and axillary arteries, would furnish a free current of blood to the arm, if the subclavian were tied above the clavicle (p. 60). ^ . This muscle, which arises by three heads, and was Triceps *' . extensor only partially seen m the dissection of the upper arm ciibiti. 229), should now be fully examined. The long head arises immediately below the glenoid cavity of the scapula, by a strong tendon which is connected with the capsule of the shoulder- joint. The second or external head arises from the posterior part of the humerus, below the insertion of the teres minor; the third or internal head arises from the posterior part of the humerus, below the teres major. The precise origin of these heads from the humerus may be ascertained by following the superior profunda artery and musculo-spiral nerve, which intervene between them. The three portions of the muscle terminate upon a broad tendon, which covers the back of the elbow-joint, and is inserted into the summit and sides of the olecranon; it is also connected with the