130 PULMONARY ARTERY. Bronchial and ^^^^^^ arteries, arising on the right side most fre- oesojhagear quently from the first aortic intercostal artery, and on arteries. £^q^ ^j^e concavity of the arch of the aorta, accompany the bronchial tube on its posterior aspect into the substance of the lung. Their distribution and office will be con- sidered with the anatomy of the lung. Other arteries proceed from the front of the descending aorta to ramify on the oesophagus, when they inosculate with the oesophageal branches of the inferior thyroid and phrenic arteries. Having finished the posterior mediastinum, replace the lung, and turn your attention once more to the great vessels at the root of the heart. This vessel is about two inches in length, and conveys Pulmonary ^-^e impure blood from the heart to the lungs. It pro- ^''^'''^ ceeds from the right ventricle, crosses obliquely in front of the root of the aorta, and on the left side of that vessel divides into two branches, one for each lung. The right branch parses throu-h the arch of the aorta to the lung; the left is easily fol- lowed°to its lung by removing its investing layer of pericardium. Search should be made for a short fibrous cord which connects the commencement of the left pulmonary artery with the concavity of the arch of the aorta. This cord is the remains of the clucfMS arteriosus, a canal which in foBtal life conveyed blood from the pulmonary artery to the aorta. , r-, i Draw towards the left side the first part of the arch of the aorta and dissect the pericardium from the great vessels at the base of the heart. Thus\ good view will be obtained of the trachea and its bifurcation into the two bronchi. Below the division of he trachea the right pulmonary artery is seen passing in front of the ripht bronchus. The superior vena cava is seen descending in front of, and nearly at right angles to, the right pulmonary arterj^ The vena azygos is also seen arching over the right bronchus and terminating m the vena cava. Notice, especially, a number of absorbent glands called ' bronchial; at the angle of bifurca ion 'f the traclea. The situation of these glands in the midst of so Lny tubes explains the variety of symptoms which may be pro- duced by their enlargement.