158 SOFT PALATE. from coming back into the mouth: the posterior (enclosing the 'jpalato-'pliarynfiei'') contract like side curtains, and co-operate in preventing the food from passing into the nose. In vomiting, food does sometimes escape through the nostrils, but one cannot wonder at this, considering the violence with which it is driven into the pharynx. Muscles of "^^^^ muscles of the soft palate lie immediately under the soft the mucous membrane. There are five pairs—namely, palate. ^j^g 4 ]evatores palati,' the ' circumflexi or tensores palati,' the ' palato-glossi,' the ' palato-pharyngei,' and the ' azygos uvulae.' This last pair is sometimes described as a single muscle. This muscle arises from the apex of the petrous palTti°^ portion of the temporal bone and from the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. Its fibres spread out, and are inserted along the upper surface of the soft palate, meeting those of its fellow in the middle line (fig. 33). Its action is to raise the soft palate, so as to make it horizontal in deglutition. This muscle is situated between the internal ptery- Circumflexus . • , i /• 1 i -j or tensor goid m. and the mternal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid palati. -boj^g^ arises from the scaphoid fossa, and from the outer side of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. Thence it de- scends perpendicularly, ends in a tendon which turns round the hamular process, and expands into a broad aponeurosis, which is inserted into the horizontal plate of the palate bone, and is also connected to its fellow of the opposite side. It gives strength to the soft palate. A synovial membrane facilitates the play of the tendon round the hamular process. Its action is to draw down and tighten the soft palate, and, owing to its insertion into the palate bone, also to keep the Eustachian tube open. This consists of two thin bundles of muscular- fibres lWltor°' situated one on each side of the middle line. They uvulae. ^j,jgg fj.Q„^ aponeurosis of the palate and descend along the uvula nearly down to its extremity. These muscles are contained within the arches of ancTpallto-*"^ the soft palate. The palato-glossiis, within the an- pharyngeus. terior aich, proceeds from the anterior surface of the