470 FRONT OF THE LEG. digitorum, along the top of the foot, to the great toe, where it is inserted into the base of the last phalanx. It has a special pulley- beneath the annular ligament, lined by a synovial membrane, which accompanies it as far as the metatarsal bone of the great toe. It is supplied by the anterior tibial, a branch of the peroneal nerve. Now examine the course, relations, and branches of the anterior tibial artery. Since it lies deeply between the muscles, it is necessary to separate them from each other: this is easily done by proceeding from the ankle towards the knee. Course and ^'^^ anterior tibial artery is one of the two branches BELATioNs OF into whlch the popliteal divides at the lower border of Mon'^TiwIi. the popliteus. It comes forward about 1;^ inch below ARTEHr. the head of the fibula, above the interosseous mem- brane, and then descends, lying in rather more than the first half of its course upon the interosseous membrane, afterwards along the front of the tibia. It runs beneath the annular ligament over the front of the ankle, where it takes the name of the dorsal artery of the foot. Thus, a line drawn from the head of the fibula to the interval between the first and second metatarsal bones would nearly coincide with its course. In the upper third of the leg it lies deep between the tibialis anticus and the extensor communis digitorum; in the lower two-thirds, between the tibialis anticus and the ex- tensor proprius pollicis. But in front of the anlde the artery is crossed by the extensor proprius pollicis, and lies between the tendon of this muscle and those of the extensor communis digi- torum. The artery is accompanied by the anterior tibial nerve (a branch of the peroneal), which runs for some distance upon its fibular side, then in front of it, and lower down is again situated on its outer side. It is accompanied by two veins, one on either side, which communicate at intervals by cross branches. The branches of the anterior tibial are as follow:— a. The recurrent branch ascends close by the outer side of the head of the tibia to the front of the knee-joint, where it inoscu- lates with the other articular arteries derived from the popliteal. h. Irregular muscular branches.