DISSECTION or THE UPPER ARM. 238 Brachialis This muscle is situated close to the lower half of the anticus. humerus, and is partially concealed by the biceps. Between the two muscles you lind the external cutaneous nerve, which supplies them both. It arises from the humerus by a fleshy digitation on either side of the tendon of the deltoid; from the front surface of the bone below this point, and from the intermuscular septa. The muscle, becoming thicker and broader as it descends, covers the front of the capsule of the elbow-joint, and terminates in a tendon, which is inserted in a pointed manner into tlie coronoid process of the ulna. Its action is to bend the forearm. Now examine the course and relations of the brachial vessels and nerves. ^ ^ The brachial artery, a continuation of the axillary, relations of takes its name at the lower border of the teres major, the brachial runs down the inner side of the arm, along the inner border of the coraco-brachialis and biceps, to the front of the elbow, where it divides, near the coronoid process of the ulna, into the radial and ulnar arteries. Thus its direction corresponds with a line dra-wTi from the anterior part of the axilla to the central point between the condyles of the humerus. In the upper part of its course it lies on the long and inner heads of the triceps (from the long head it is separated by the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery); in the middle, it lies on the tendon of the coraco-brachialis; in the lower part, on the brachialis anticus. The artery is accompanied by two veins ivenm comites), and the median nerve, all of which are invested in a common sheath of fascia. The median nerve crosses obliquely in front of the artery, lying, near the axilla, on its outer side, near the elbow on its innei". The ulnar nerve at first runs along the inner side of the artery, but below is separated from it by the internal intermuscular septum, where it passes behind the internal condyle. Superficial to the artery, we find the internal cutaneous nerve and the basilic vein.