139 DISSECTION or THE HEART. Left ventricle. '^^'^ occupies the left border, and forms the apex of " the heart. Oae third of it only is seen on the anterior surface, the rest being on its posterior. To examine the interior raise a triangular flap, with the apex below, from its front wall. Observe that it is about three times as thick as that of the right ventricle, and that this thickness gradually diminishes towards the apex. The interior of the left ventricle so closely resembles that of the right that there is no necessity to describe it in detail. The auriciUo-ventricular valve consists of only two principal flaps: hence its name 'mitral' or 'bicuspid: The larger of these flaps is placed between the aortic and auriculo-ventricular orifices. There are only two ' musculi papillares ;' one attached to the anterior, the other to the posterior wall of the ventricle. They are thicker and their ' cordm tendinece ' stronger than those of the right ventricle, but their arrangement is precisely similar. From the upper and back part of the ventricle, a smooth passage leads to the orifice of the aorta. This orifice is placed rather in front, and to the right side of the auriculo-ventricular opening; but the two orifices are close together, and only separated by the larger flap of the mitral valve. The aortic orifice is guarded by three semilunar valves, of which the arrangement, structure, and mode of action are similar to those of the pulmonary artery. Their framework is proportionately stronger, consistently with the greater strength of the left ventricle, and the greater impulse of the blood. In the ' sinuses of Valsalva' are observed the orifices of the two coronary arteries. Fibrous rings. Openings between the auricles and ventricles, and also at the commencement of the aorta and pul- monary artery, we find fibrous rings. These rings serve as fixed points for the attachment of the muscular fibres of the heart, the tricuspid and the mitral valves. The rings on the left side are stronger than those on the right. Attachment ^'^^ fibrous rings at the arterial orifices present three of the great festoons with concavities directed upwards. These th^ventiicles. f^^^oons give attachment to the middle coat of the artery above, to the muscular fibres of the heart below, and mternally to the tendinous fibres of the valves. The vessels