385 SIDE yiEAV OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. of a stag's Lorn. The vesiculsB seminales do not run parallel, but diverge from each other posteriorly, like the branches of tlie letter V; and each lies immediately on the outer side of the vas deferens, into which it leads. The function of the vesiculse seminales is to serve as reservoirs for the semen. They contain a brownish-coloured fluid, presumed to be ia some way accessory to the function of generation.* Prostate '^^^ prostate gland is situated at the neck of the gkndf ^ bladder, and surrounds the first part of the urethra (p. 394). In the healthy adult it is about the size and shape of a chesnut. Its apex is directed forwards. It is sur- rounded by a plexus of veins (p. 379), and is maintained in its position by the pelvic fascia (p. 378> Its upper surface is about three-quarters of an inch below the symphysis pubis: its apex is about one inch and a half from the anus; the base is about two and a half. Above the prostate are the anterior ligaments of the bladder, with the dorsal vein of the penis between them; below, and in contact with it, is the rectum; on each side of it is the levator ani; in front of it we have the membranous part of the urethra (sm-rounded by its compressor muscle), and the triangular Kga- ment;, behind, are the neck of the bladder and the vesicular seminales with the ejaculatory ducts. The transverse diameter is about one inch and a half; the vertical is about half an inch less. But the gland varies, in size at diflferent periods of life. In the child it is not developed, or at all events is very small: it gradually grows towards puberty, and generally increases in size with advancing age. To ascertain the size and condition of the prostate durino^ life the bladder should be at least half full: the prostate is'^then pressed down towards the rectum, and more within reach of the finger. Anatomy of "^^^ urethra is a canal about eight inches in length, the urethra and leads from tlie bladder to the end of the penis. * The resicul« seminales are imperfectly developed tiU the age of puherty. In ^ child of tliree years of age they can hardly be inflated with the blowpijDe. C C