SXIBMAXILLARY HEGION. 38 iiarrow oriiice, in consequence of the sudden contraction of the neighbouring muscles. An abnormal dilatation of the submaxillary duct is called a ' ranula.' It makes a tumour with semi-transparent walls, percep- tible beneath the tongue. In some cases, however, what appears to be a 'ranula' is in reality a cyst formed in the loose areolar tissue under the tongue, or an enlargement of one of the small bursse which are normally placed here.* The facial vein does not accompany the facial artery. Facial leaves the face at the anterior edge of the masseter m., then runs over the submaxillary gland, the digas- tricus and stylo-hyoideus and the carotid artery, to join the internal juo-ular. This is the rule—but there are frequent exceptions. The principal point to remember is, that the vein runs superficial to the gland, and that we must be cautious in opening abscesses under the jaw. ^ , , i The facial artery is the third branch of the external racial carotid. It runs tortuously under the hypoglossal nerve, the posterior belly of the digastricus and stylo-hyoideus, and underneath or through the substance of the submaxillary gland to the face, where it appears at the anterior border of the masseter. Below the jaw the facial gives off the four following \. The ascending or inferior palatine artery runs up between .the stylo-glossus and the stylo-pbaryngeus m. to the soft palate and tonsils, and inosculates with the descending palatine, a branch of the internal maxillary. -a a 2 The tonsillar runs up between the internal pterygoid and the stylo-glossus m., then, perforating the superior constrictor, sup- .plies the tonsil and root of the tongue. 3. Glandular branches to the submaxillary gland. 4 The submental runs forwards upon the mylo-hyoideus muscle, under the inferior maxilla, turns over the chin, and inosculates with the terminal branches of the inferior dental and inferior • * These sublingual bursu. ^.ere first described by Flcischmann, De novi.s sub- lingua bursis, Nuremberg, 1841.