40 SUHMAXILLAKY UEGION. to a piece of surgical anatomy, which will enable you readily to find and tie the lingual artery. It is this :— A horizontal incision being made along the body and greater cornu of the os-hyoides through the skin, the platysma, and the cervical fascia, you will come at once upon the lower edge of the submaxillary gland. Lift up the gland, which can be easily done, and underneath it you will observe that the tendon of the digastricus makes two sides of a triangle, of which the base is formed by the hypoglossal nerve crossing the hyo-glossus m. Within this little triangle, cut transversely through the fibres of the hyogiossus, and under them is the lingual artery. The first time you perform this operation on the dead subject, you will probably miss the artery and cut (through the middle constrictor) into the pharynx. The facial vessels must now be divided immediatel}'^ below the jaw. Reflect the anterior belly of the digastricus from its in- sertion ; detach the mylo-hyoideus from the middle line and the os-hyoides, and turn it over the bod}' of the jaw, taking care not to injure the muscle and structures beneath. The lower jaw must now be sawn through, a little to the dissector's side of the sym- physis, and the bone drawn upwards by hooks. The tongue should be drawn out of the mouth, and fastened by hooks. The os- hyoides should be drawn down by means of hooks, so as to put the parts on the stretch. All this done, we have to make out the following objects, represented in fig. 9, p. 41. 1. Genio-hyoideus. 6. Sublingual gland. 2. Hjo-glossus. 7. Hypoglossal nerre. 3. Stylo-glossus. 8. Gustatory nerve. 4. Genio-hyo-glossus. 9. Submaxillary ganglion. 6. Submaxillary duct. 10. Lingual artery. The genio-hyoideus arises from the inferior tubercle hyoideus behind the symphysis of the jaw, and is inserted into the front of the body of the os-hyoides. This round muscle is situated in the n)esial line, parallel to its fellow. Its nerve comes from the hypoglossal, and its blood from the lingual artery. Its action is to draw the os-hyoides forwards and