326 POSITION or ABDOMINAL VISCERA. the stomach to the pelvis, forming a curtain over the convolutions of the small intestines. The breadth of this fold varies in different instances, sometimes being so shrunk and crumpled as to be scarcely visible. The lower part of the belly and part of the pelvis are occupied by the small intestines. The urinary bladder is not apparent, unless distended suflBciently to rise out of the pelvis. In the right iliac fossa is the ' caput coli,' the commencement of the large intestine; but the ascending part of the large intestine in the right lumbar region, and the descending part of it in the left, are not visible unless distended: they lie contracted at the back of the abdomen. These are the viscera usually seen on opening the abdomen: but a certain latitude is to be allowed, as sometimes more of one organ is seen and less of another, according as this or that is distended or hypertrophied. Much also depends upon the amount of pressure which the ribs have undergone during life. The position of each viscus should now be examined posidon'^of separately, and first that of the stomach, each viscus. rj^g stomach is irregularly conical in shape. Its The stomach. ^^^^^ -g gituated in the left hypochondrium; its narrow or pyloric end extends obliquely across the epigastrium into the right hypochondrium, where it is overlapped by the liver. The relative position and size of the stomach vary according to the amount of distention ; when much distended the anterior surface, owing to the greater mobility of the great curve and the pyloric end of the stomach, is turned upwards, and the lower border, forwards. The first part of the intestinal canal is termed ' mtes- Duodenum. ^^^^^ duodenum; because it is about twelve inches long. Commencing at the pyloric end of the stomach (p. 338), the duodenum ascends as high as the neck of the gall-bladder; then, suddenly bending, it descends in front of the right kidney; lastly, making another bend, it crosses the spine obliquely towards the left side of the second lumbar vertebra: here the intestinura 'ieiunum' begins, and this part of the canal may be seen by raising the transverse colon. Thus then, the ' duodenum ' describes