DISSECTION OF TJIK KYK. 564 entirely of blood vessels;* so much so that some anatomists con- sider it to be a kind of erectile tissue, and that its power of con tracting and expanding depends upon this property alone. Its blood vessels are derived from two sources—the posterior TeLds°'^ or long, and the anterior or short ciliary arteries. The posterior, 15 to 20 in number, perforate the sclerotica round the optic nerve, and then run on upon the choroid to the iris; the anterior proceed from the tendons of the recti (p. 182), and perforate the sclerotica round the margin of the cornea. It is from the enlargement of these latter vessels that the red zone round the cornea is produced in inflammation of the iris. The nerves of the iris, twelve or more in num- & tivcs. proceed from the lenticular ganglion, and from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth pair (p. 178). They perforate the back of the sclerotica like the arte- ries, and run along the choroid to the iris. Until the seventh or eighth month of foetal life, the Membrana p^pji ig closed by a delicate membrane, termed 'meni- brana 'pujpillaris.'' Its vessels are arranged m loops, which converge towards the centre of the pupil. It has been lately discovered that this membrane, which has always been regarded as a distinct structure, is identical with the anterior layer of the capsule of the crystalline lens.f To obtain a view of the retina, the choroid coat must Eetina. removed while the eye is under water; this should be done with the forceps and scissors. The optic nerve, having entered the interior of the globe through the sclerotic and the choroid, expands into the delicate nervous tunic called the retina. In passing through the coats of the eye, the nerve becomes sud- denly constricted, and reduced to one-third of its diameter; at this point, too, it projects slightly into the interior of the globe, * In well-injected prepcarations one may see that the cliief blood vessels are dis- posed in two circles on the front siu-face of the iris, one near the outer, and the other near the inner circtimference. t See a paper by John Quekett in the Transactions of the Microscopic Society of London, vol. iii. p. 9.