285 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. Extensor ™^ muscle is partly covered by the supinator radii carpi radi- lougus. It avises from the lower third of the ridge, alls longior. ^gg^^jj^j^g ^}jg external condyle of the humerus, and from the intermuscular septum, descends along the outer side of the forearm, and terminates about the middle, in a flat tendon, which passes beneath the extensor ossis metacarpi, and primi internodii pollicis, traverses a groove on the outer and back part of the radius, lined by a synovial membrane, and is inserted into the radial side of the carpal end of the metacarpal bone of the index finger. Previous to its insertion, the tendon is crossed by the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. It is supplied by a branch from the musculo-spiral nerve. Extensor '^^^^ muscle wrises from the external condyle and carpi radialis from the external lateral ligament of the elbow-ioint. The muscular fibres terminate near the middle of the forearm, upon the under su}-face of a flat tendon, which descends, covered by that of the extensor carpi radialis longior, beneath the first two extensors of the thumb. The tendon traverses a groove on the back of the radius, on the same plane with that of the long radial extensor, but lined by a separate synovial membrane, and is inserted into the radial side of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. A bursa is generally found between the tendon and the bone. Its nerve comes from the posterior interosseous nerve. Extensor ^^^^ muscle arises from the common tendon attached digitorum to the external condyle, from the septa between it and communis. ,1 ,. , ■. . the contiguous muscles, and from its strong fascial covering. About the middle of the forearm the muscle divides into three or four fleshy slips, terminating in as many flat tendons, which pass beneath the posterior annular ligament, through a groove on the back of the radius lined by synovial membrane. On the back of the hand they become broader and flatter, and diverge from each other towards the metacarpal joints of the fingers, where they become thicker and narrower, and give off on each side a fibrous expansion, which covers the sides of the joint. Over the first phalanx of the finger, each tendon again spreads out^ receives the expanded tendons of the lumbricales and interossei