ANATOMY OP THE PJ5N18. 402 the glans to the prepuce is called ' frenum preputiV The skin is reflected over the glans, to which it adheres closely, and at the orifice of the urethra is continuous with the mucous membrane. The surface of the glans is covered, like the end of the finger, by minute papillae, which are endowed with keen sensibility by the dorsal nerves of the penis. Round its margin—termed the 'corona glanclis'—are a number of minute sebaceous glands, which secrete a substance called 'smegma preputii.' The bulk of the penis consists of two cylindrical bodies, of erectile structure, named from the appearance of their interior ' corpora cavernosa.' In a groove along their under surface runs the urethra, which is itself surrounded by a vascular spongy tissue called ' corpus spongiosum:' an expansion of this at the end of the organ forms the glans. These structures, then—^the corpora cavernosa and the corpus spongiosum—together form the penis; though the corpus spongiosum appears closely united to the corpora cavernosa, yet it is quite distinct from them, as shown in the transverse section (p. 403). The corpora cavernosa constitute more than two-thirds of the bulk of the penis. Each commences posteriorly by a gradually tapering portion, called the ' crus penis,' which is attached along a groove in the rami of the ischium and pubes. The crura converge, come into apposition at the root of the penis, and then run on, side by side, to form the body of the organ. Anteriorly, each terminates in a rounded end, received into a corresponding depression in the glans, which fits on like a cap. The upper part of the penis is connected to the symphysis pubis by an elastic triangular ligament, called'ligamentum suspensoHum penis.'' In a longitudinal section through the corpus cavernosum, we observe that its interior is composed of a delicate reticular structure, surrounded by a thick fibrous coat. This coat is from half a line to a line in thickness, and is composed of white fibrous tissue intermingled with yellow elastic fibres. It forms a cylinder of adequate strength to support the delicate structure within, and sufficiently elastic to allow the distention of the penis. This coat,