12 CAVERNOUS SINUS. nected by small offsets. The facial nerve lies internal to and above the auditory, before it enters the meatus auditorius. The eighth, consisting of the glosso-pharynf/eal,pneu7noga8tric, and spinal accessory, passes through the anterior part of the foramen jugulare. These three divisions do not all pass through the same tube of dura mater. The glosso-pharyngeal has a separate tube anterior to the other two, which have a common one. The ninth, or hypoglossal net^e, passes through the anterior condyloid foramen in two fasciculi, which unite external to the skull. We must now examine the cavernous sinus, and the nerves which course through its walls to the orbit—namely, the third, the fourth, the first division of the fifth, and the sixth. Cavernous This sinus (fig. 3) lies by the side of the body of sinus. the sphenoid bone. In front it receives the ophthalmic vein, which comes through the sphenoidal fissure; behind, the superior and inferior petrosal sinuses run out of it; on the inner side it communicates with the circular sinus which surrounds the pituitary gland (P in the diagram). In the outer wall of the cavernous sinus we trace from above downwards the third nerve, the fourth, the first division of the fifth, on their course to the orbit.* On its inner wall are situated the sixth nerve, and the internal carotid artery. These objects are said to be contained in the cavernous sinus; but they are not bathed by the blood of the sinus, because they are separated from it by the lining membrane. Curves of After the removal of the cavernous sinus, a good the carotid view is obtained of the remarkable curves, like the artery. letter S, made by the carotid artery by the side of the sella turcica. The vessel enters the cranium at the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, makes its sigmoid curves, and then passes through the dura mater, between the anterior clinoid process and the optic nerve ; here it gives off the ophthalmic * Such is the order in which the nerves are placed in the wall of the sinus. As they enter the orbit, the fourth nerve crosses over the third.