MUSCLES OF THE BACK CONNECTED WITH THE ARM. 271 the muscle arising so high up the back is, that the transverse fibres of the muscle may strap down the inferior angle of the scapula. It sometimes happens that the scapula slips above the muscle : this displacement is readily recognised by the unnatural projection of the lower angle of the bone, and the impaired move- ments of the arm.* Between the base of the scapula, the trapezius, and the upper border of the latissimus dorsi, a triangular space is observed wben the arm is raised, in which the lower fibres of the rhomboideus major and part of the sixth intercostal space, are exposed. Imme- diately above the crest of the ilium, between the free margins of the latissimus dorsi and external oblique, there is, also, an interval in which a little of the internal oblique can be seen. Vertebral "^^^^ dense shining aponeurosis of the back is situated aponeu.osis. between the serrati postici and the erector spinas, of which muscle it forms the posterior part of the sheath. It is pointed above, where it is continuous with the deep cervical fascia, broader and stronger below. It consists of tendinous fibres, which are attached internally to the spines of the six or seven lower dorsal, all the lumbar and sacral vertebrae ; externally, to the angles of the ribs; and inferiorly it is blended with the tendons of the serratus posticus inferior and latissimus dorsi. When sup- puration takes place in the loins, constituting ' lumbar abscess' in- connection with spinal disease, the matter is seated beneath this aponeurosis, and is therefore a long time in coming to the surface. Eeflect the trapezius from its insertion. On its under surface see the ramifications of its nutrient artery, the superficialis colli (a branch of the posterior scapular). A large nerve, the spinal accessory, enters its under surface near the clavicle, and divides into filaments, some of which ascend, others descend in its substance. * We have seen an instance of this displacement. There was great projection of the mfenor angle of the scapula, especially when the man attempted to raise the arm. He could not raise the arm beyond a right angle, unless firm pressure was made on the lower angle of the scapula, so as to supply the place of the muscular strap. Whether the scapula can be replaced or not, apply a fii-m bandage round the chest.