ANATOMY OF THE PENIS. 404 The blood from the cells of the penis returns partly through veins which pass out on the upper surface of the penis into the great dorsal vein, which joins the prostatic plexus; partly through the deep veins which leave the inner side of each crus, and the "bulb, to join the internal iliac. The corpus spongiosum is the erectile tissue which Corpus spon- gurrounds the urethra as it runs along the penis. It giosiun. commences in the middle of the perineum, in a bulb- like form, and at the end of the penis it expands to form the glans. This is proved by the fact, that if the spongy body be injected, the glans is filled also; not so, if we inject the cavernous body. The urethra does not pass exactly through the middle of the spongy body, but runs nearer to its upper surface. The bulb hangs more or less pendulous from the urethra (p. 361). In old persons it extends lower down than in children, and is, conse- quently, more exposed to injury in lithotomy. The corpus spongiosum has a much thinner external coat than the corpus cavernosum, but resembles it very much in its internal appearance. The reticular structure, however, is somewhat finer and more delicate. Its interior is composed of a plexus of minute tortuous veins. This is easily demonstrated by injecting the dorsal vein of the penis with wax. In this way we not only fill the spongy body, but also the glans and the large veins which form the plexus round the corona glandis.* The chie?nerves of the penis are the pudic. The largest branches run along the dorsum to the outside of the glans: a few only enter the erectile tissue of the organ. This, it has akeady been men- tioned (p. 392), is suppUed by filaments of the sympathetic nerve proceeding from the hypogastric plexus. The absorbent vessels proceeding from the glans and the mteg- ument of the penis join the inguinal glands. The absorbents of the glans communicate freely all round it: this explains why a venereal sore on one side, sometimes affects the inguinal glands on the other. * In the Museum of the Koyal College of Surgeons there is a beautiful preparation in which the glans penis is injected with quicksilver, clearly showing it to consist of a plexus of veins.-Physiol. Series, No. 2588 A.