533 LATERAL VENTRICLES. . The contents of the lateral ventricles should now be examined more in detail; also the transparent septum (septum lucidum) by which the two lateral ventricles are separated. This body is so called because, when cut into, it ?Sum. presents alternate layers of white and grey matter.* It is a much larger mass of grey substance than it appears to be, for only a portion of it is seen projecting on the floor of the ventricle. The intra-ventricular portion is pear-shaped, with the large end forwards; and when traced backwards,is found to taper gradually to a point on the outside of the optic thalamus (p. 539). The under part (extra-ventricular portion) of the corpus striatum corresponds with the convolution at the base of the brain, known as the island of Heil, and also with the locus perforatus anticus—a spot at the root of the fissure of Sylvius, so called on account of the number and size of the blood vessels which pass in there to supply the mass of grey matter in question, Tseni se " '^^^^ ^ narrow semi-transparent band of longf- cimilarir" <^^^i^al white fibres, which skirts the posterior border of the corpus striatum (tig. 129). In front it is con- nected with the anterior crus of the fornix; behind, it is lost in the middle horn of the lateral ventricle. A large vein from the corpus striatum passes underneath the ttenia semicircularis to join the vena Graleni. Septum ^'^^^ ^ ^^^^ almost transparent partition, wliich lucidum. descends vertically in the middle line from the under surface of the corpus caUosum, and separates the an- terior part of the lateral ventricles from each other. It is attached above, to the corpus callosum; below, to the reflected part of the corpus callosum and the fornix (p. 530). It is not of equal depth throughout. The broadest part is in front, and corresponds with the knee of the corpus callosum. It becomes narrower behind, » The white lines in the corpus striatum are produced by the fibres of the crus cerebr., wh.ch traverse this mass of grey matter before they expand to form the Lm" sphere. The grey matter itself is sometimes called the antLo'cerebral ganglion "t as found m a 1 mammal.a, in birds, and, to a certain extent, in reptiles. Its pLise function 13 still unknown. • j.lb piecise