QUADRATUS LUMBORUM. 350 It is this action which is so troublesome to counteract in fractures of the upper third of the femur. This muscle extends from the crest of the ilium to lumborum ^'^^ contained in a sheath formed for it and its by the aponeurotic origin of the transversalis (p. 314). sheath. rpj^g anterior layer of its sheath is attached to the roots of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and tlie pos- terior layer to their summits. The muscle, broader below than above, arises from about an inch and a half of the crest of the ilium and from the ilio-lumbar ligament: it ascends nearly per- pendicularly, and is inserted into the last rib, and into the front of the transverse processes of the four upper lumbar vertebrae by as many tendinous slips. In addition to these, a few fibres frequently take origin from the transverse processes, and run up to the last rib, crossing the front of the other part of the muscle. The principal use of the muscle is to steady the spine; it also steadies the last rib, and enables it to serve as a fixed point for the action of the intercostal muscles and the diaphragm.* By raising the qnadratus, we observe the aponeurotic origin of the transversalis from the summits of the transverse processes: this constitutes the posterior part of its sheath, and separates the muscle from the erector spinae. Before examining the course of the aorta and its great primary divisions, notice that a chain of absorbent glands extends along the brim of the pelvis and the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, following nearly the course of the great blood vessels. Generally speaking they are small; only one here and there attracts obser- vation. They transmit the lymphatics from the lower bmbs, the abdominal wall, and the testicle; and all eventually lead to the * The respective attachments of the quadratus lumborum, the crossing of its fibres, and its mode of action, lead to the inference that it is a large intercostal muscle. It is worth remembering that the outer edge of the quadi-atus lumborum, in a well-grown adult, is about three inches from the spines of the lumbar vertebrje, and midway be- tween the last rib and the crest of the ilium. It is just oiitside the edge of this muscle that we can cut down to open the large bowel without wounding the peritoneum.