354 EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. The right lies upon the right and left common iliac veins, and is in relation also with the inferior vena cava. The relations of these arteries are interesting in a practical point of view; and the most important one is their position with regard to their corresponding veins. By reason of the close connections of the right iliac artery with the right and left iliac veins, it is easier to pass a ligature round the left artery than the right. With the parts before you, consider what would be the easiest way of performing this operation. Several modes have been. recommended. Upon the whole, the best authorities* agree that the artery is most accessible from behind. An incision should be made perpendicularly from the end of the last rib to the ilium; another transversely along the margin of this bone nearly to its spine. We then cut, layer after layer, through the abdominal muscles till the peritoneum is exposed; this is easily raised from the iliac fascia, and with it the ureter is raised too. The applica- tion of the ligature is, after all, the most delicate part of the operation. It ought to be placed, as near as possible, midway between the origin and the division of the artery, so that there may be room enough for the formation of a clot on either side.f This artery passes along the brim of the pelvis, on SlclmY. the inner side of the psoas, and then running under the crural arch about midway between the spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, takes the name of femoral. The corresponding vein lies close to its inner side, and on a posterior * Consult some observations in point by Sir P. Crampton, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xvi. t It is important to be aware that the length of the common iliac artery is apt to vary in different persons. I have seen it from three-fourths of an inch to three and a half inches long. These varieties may arise either from a high division of the aorta, or a low division of the common iliac, or both. It is impossible to ascertain, beforehand, what will be its length in a given instance, for there is no necessary relation between its length and the height of the adult individual. It is often very short in men of tall statiu-e, and vice versd. Anatomists generally describe the left as rather longer than the right; but, from the examination of 100 bodies, I conclude that their average length is the same.