SEINAL . CORD. N N 2 5-47 Spinal coed. Pig. 130. Cauda equina. roots of the spinal nerves. The first process passes between the vertebral artery and the hypoglossal nerve; the last one is found at the termination of the cord. The spinal cord is that part of the cerebro-spinal axis con- tained in the vertebral canal. It is the continuation of the medulla oblongata, and extends from the foramen magnum down to the upper border of the second lumbar vertebra, where it terminates in a pointed manner, after having given off the great bundle of nerves termed 'cauda equina,' for the supply of the lower limbs.* ^"^^^^ of the ligamentom ine length ot the cord is about seven- j • 1 J • 1 1 . , Dura mater. teen or eighteen inches, and its general 2,2,2. Ligamentum denticuiatmu. form is cylindrical, slightly flattened in front and behind. It is not of uniform dimensions throughout. It presents a slight enlargement in the lower part of the cervical region; another in the lower part of the dorsal, where the great nerves of the upper and lower limbs are given off. The upper or cervical enlargement reaches from the third cervical to the first dorsal vertebra; the lower or lumbar is situated opposite to the last dorsal vertebra. Pissures. ^^^^ divided into two symmetrical halves by a fissure in front and behind (fig. 131). The anterior fissure is the most distinct, and penetrates about one-third of the substance of the cord; it contains a fold of pia mater full of blood vessels for the supply of the interior. At the bottom of this fissure * Although the nerve substance of the cord itself terminates at the second lumbar vertebra, yet the pia mater is continued as a slender filament, caUed 'Jihm termimle ' down to the base of the coccyx. The explanation of this is, that, at an early period of fcetal life, the length of the cord corresponds with that of the vertebral canal • but after the third month, the lumbar and sacral vertebrte grow away, so to speak, from the cord, in accordance with the more active development of the lower limbs See Tiedemann, Anatomie und Bildungsgeschichte des Gehirns im Pectus des Meuschen &c.; Niiremberg, 1816, '