DISRECTIOX OP THE EAU. 570 p.^^^ The pinna is irregularly oval, and has on its external aspect numerous eminences and hollows, which have received the following names :—The outer folded border is called the helix; the ridge within it, the anti-helix; between these is a curved groove called the fossa of the helix. The anti-helix bifur- cates towards the front, and bounds the fossa of the anti-lielix. The conical eminence in front of the meatus is termed the tragus, on which hair generally grows. Behind the tragus, and separated from it by a deep notch, is the anti-tragus. The lobule is the soft pendulous part, and consists of fat and fibrous tissue. The deep hollow which collects the sonorous vibrations, and directs them into the external meatus, is termed the concha. The pinna is formed of yellow fibro-cartilage, which is attached by an anterior ligament to the root of the zygoma, and by a posterior to the mastoid process. The muscles which move the cartilage of the ear as Muscles of ^ Yiole, have been described (p. 2). Other small the pmna. ' \r / muscles extend from one part of the cartilage to another; but they are so indistinct, that, unless the subject be very muscular, it is difficult to make them out. The following six are usually described—four on the front of the pinna, and two behind it:— a. The musculus major helicis runs vertically along the front margin of the pinna. b. The musculus minor helicis lies over that part of the helix which comes up from the bottom of the concha. c. The musculus tragicus lies vertically over the outer surface of the tragus. d. The musculus anti-tragicus proceeds transversely from the anti-tragus to the lower part of the anti-helix. e. The musculus transversus is on the back of the pinna; it passes from the back of the concha to the helix. /. The musculus obliquus extends vertically from the cranial aspect of the concha to the convexity below it. The arteries of the pinna are derived from the posterior auricu- lar, and from the auricular branches of the temporal and occipital.