ge"e ' fi" 5)' fi^"^^^ CARPAL BONES. 3g3^ forining a part of the wrist-joint, corresponds to the cuneiform bone. Its borders are connected with the anterior and posterior ligaments of the wrist. In some instances there is an aperture in the centre. "\Mien, from accident or disease, this fibro-cartilage gets de- tached from the radius, the consequence is a preternatural projec- tion of the lower end of the ulna. The synovial membrane of this joint is distinct from that of the wrist, except in the case of a perforation through the fibro-carti- lage. On account of its great looseness, necessary for the free rotation of the radius, it is called * memhrana sacciformis: Connection The bones of the carpus are arranged in two rows an OF THE PAT?- 1 1 PAL BONES upper and a lower, adapted to each other, so as to form ^theh'^''" between them a joint, connected by anterior, posterior, OTHEB. internal, and external lateral ligaments. The bones, constituting each row, are united by ligaments placed on their palmar and dorsal surfaces, and by others, placed between the bones, and hence called interosseous. Their contiguous sur- faces (those of the pisiform and cuneiform excepted) are covered by the reflections of one synovial membrane. The upper row is united by transverse ligaments proceeding from the scaphoid to the semilunar bone, and from the semilunar to the cuneiform, both on their dorsal and palmar surfaces: also by znterosseous ligaments, proceeding from the semilunar to the bones on either side of it (fig. 57). The pisifo'^^i bone is articulated to the palmar surface of the cuneiform bone, to which it is united by a fibrous capsule. In- fenorly it is attached by two strong ligaments, the one to the unciform bone, the other to the carpal end of the fifth metacarpal bone This articulation has a distinct synovial membrane. The lozoerroio of carpal bones is connected in the same way as the upper The dorsal and palmar ligaments pass transversely from one to the other. There are only two interosseous ligaments, one on either side of the os magnum ; they are thicker and stronge;