SUPERIOR LONGITUDINAL SINUS. 1 1. Superior longitudinal sinus. 2. Inferior longitudinal sinus. 3. Straight sinus. 4. 4. Venae Galeni. Su erior '^^^^ ^^"^ along the upper edge of the falx cerebri longitudinal (fig. 2). It begins very small at the crista galli, sinus. gradually increases in size in its course backwards, and opposite the tubercle of the occipital bone divides into the right and left lateral sinuses, the right being in general the larger. Be- sides numerous veins from the can- cellous texture of the skull-cap, the superior longitudinal sinus receives large veins from each hemisphere of the cerebrum. It is interesting to observe that these veins run from bebind forwards, contrary to the current of blood in the sinus, and that they pass through the wall of the sinus very obliquely, like the ureter into the bladder. The probable object of this oblique entrance is to prevent regurgi- tation of blood from the sinus into the veins of the brain. Cut open the superior longitudinal sinus: observe that it is triangular with its base upwards, and that its cavity is intersected in many places by slender fibrous cords, termed 'chordae Willisii.^* Their precise use is not understood. In the neighbourhood of the superior longitudinal sinus we meet with small granulations, sometimes lying singly, sometimes in clusters. They are termed ' glan- dulce Pacchioni,^1[ and are found in three distinct situations:— 1, on the outside of . the dura mater, often so large as to occasion depressions in the bones; 2, on the surface of the pia mater; 3, in the interior of the longitudinal sinus, covered by its lining- membrane. Their size, number, and appearance differ in different * So called after "Willis, •who first described them in his work De Cerebri Anatome, 1664. t After the Italian anatomist, who first described them in 1705. These bodies ■would appear to originate in the subarachnoid cellular tissue, whence they, in their growth, either perforate the dura mater and hollow out the bones, or make tlieir way into the longitudinal sinus. Glandulse Pacchioni