GLUTEAL llEGION. 474 from the external cutaneous nerve of the thigh are seen on the outer side of this region. Three powerful muscles are situated on the buttock, muslfes^ one above the other, named, according to their relative size, the gluteus maximus, medius, and minimus. This is the largest muscle of the body, and is covered maibius ^ strong fascia, which sends prolongations inwards between the muscular bundles. Its great size is cha- racteristic of man, in reference to his erect position. Its texture is thick and coarse. It arises from the posterior fifth of the crest of the ileum, from the lower part of the sacrum, the coccyx, and the great sacro-ischiatic ligament. The fibres descend obliquely forwards, and are inserted thus :—the anterior two-thirds terminate on a strong broad tendon which plays over the great trochanter, and joins the fascia lata on the outside of the thigh (p. 443); the remaining third is inserted into the femur, along the ridge leading from the linea aspera to the great trochanter. This muscle extends the thigh bone upon the pelvis, and is therefore one of those most concerned in raising the body from the sitting to the erect position, and in maintaining it erect. It also propels the body—in Avalking, running, or leaping. It is supplied with blood by the giutseal and ischiatic arteries; with nerves by the lesser ischiatic. The gluteus maximus should be reflected from its Wath the" origin. The best way is to begin at the front border, glutseus maxi- -which overlaps the glutseus medius. The dissection is difficult, and he who undertakes it for the first time, is almost sure to damage the subjacent parts. The numerous vessels which enter its under surface must be divided before the muscle can be reflected. This having been accomplished, the following objects will be exposed:— The muscle covering the ileum is the glutseus medius. At the posterior border of this are the several objects which come out of the pelvis through the great ischiatic notch—namely, the py- riformis muscle, above which is the trunk of the glutaeal artery and nerve, and below which are the greater and lesser ischiatic nerves,