THYKOID BODY. 29 The descendens noni (p. 25), a branch of the hypo- glossal, runs down obliquely over the sheath of the car- Descendens q^^^j supply the depressor muscles of the os-hyoides. Trace the nerve upwards, and see that it leaves the hypoglossal where this nerve curves round the occipital, or perhaps the mastoid artery. For a short distance the descendens noni lies within the carotid sheath; but about the level of the os-hyoides it comes through the sheath, and crosses obliquely the carotid, from the outer to the inner side. The descendens noni is reinforced by one or more nerves termed communicantes noni (derived from the second and third cervical nerves). These communicating branches descend on the outer side of the internal jugular vein, and form generally two loops in front of the carotid sheath. From these loops the nerves proceed to the anterior and posterior bellies of the omo-hyoid, the sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles. A small branch may sometimes be traced proceeding from the descen- dens noni into the chest to join the cardiac and phrenic nerves. In some subjects the descendens noni seems to be wanting; but look carefully, and you will probably discover it concealed within the carotid sheath : in such case the reinforcing loops from the cervical nerves will be found behind the internal jugular vein. Let us now examine the thyroid body, and, to expose it, let us reflect the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles from their insertions so that they can be replaced if necessary. Afterwards we will ex- amine the absorbent glands of the neck, and then survey the objects in the central line of the neck, from the jaw to the sternum. This very vascular gland-like substance lies over the body°'^ front and sides of the upper part of the trachea, and extends upwards on each side of the larynx. It con- sists of two lateral lobes, connected a little below the cricoid carti- lage by a transverse portion called the ' isthmus.' Each lobe is conical, about two inches in length, with the base opposite the sixth or seventh ring of the trachea, and the apex by the side of the thyroid cartilage. Its anterior surface is covered by the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid muscles; its deep