ILIACUS INTERNUS AND ILIAC FASCIA. 349 more frequently in old ones, in consequence of -wear and tear, this bursa communicates with the capsule of the hip-joint. The fact is interesting; for it explains how a psoas abscess some- times makes its way into the hip-joint; a result almost always fatal. Once in about eight or ten subjects there is a small parvus. muscle called the jpsoas 'parvus. It arises from the last dorsal and the first lumbar vertebra, and the inter- vening cartilage; thence descending in front of the great psoas, it soon ends in a long iiat tendon, which spreads out, and is inserted into the brim of the pelvis. Iiiacus in- ■^'^^^ muscle occupies the iliac fossa, and is covered tenms and by a fascia. This iliac fascia, as it is called, is attached Hiac fascia. ^^^^t^ ilium, and indirectly to the brim of the pelvis through its connection with the sheath of the psoas. But its most important attachment is to the outer half of the crural arch; here it is directly continuous with the fascia trans- versalis (p. 320), so that together they present an effectual barrier to the escape of intestine beneath this part of the arch.* To return to the muscle. It arises from the iliac fossa, from the ilio-lumbar ligament,! also from the capsule of the hip-joint. The fibres pass beneath the crural arch, and are inserted into the outer side of the tendon of the psoas. Thus the two muscles, so far as their action goes, may be considered as one. The combined action of the psoas and iiiacus is to assist in raising the body from the recumbent position, and to fix the pelvis steadily on the thigh: this supposes the fixed point to be at the trochanter minor. But supposing the fixed point to be at the spine, then the muscle can raise and rotate the femur outwards. * The iliac fossae are very liable to be the seat of suppvu-ation, and the course which the matter takes depends upon its position with regard to the iliac fascia. If the matter be seated in the loose cellular tissue between the peritoneum and the fascia, it usuaUy advances just above the crest of the ilium, or else towards the groin through the inguinal canal; but, if seated beneath the fascia, the chances are that the matter wiU make its way under the crural arch towards the upper and outer part of the thigh. t This ligament extends from the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra to the ilium.