DISSECTION OF THE EAK. The osseous labyrinth is lined throughout by a delicate fibro- serous membrane, which secretes the fluid called the ' peri-lymph,' or ' liquor Cctunnii.' If the bony labyrinth just now described be properly kbyrinth°'^^ Understood, there is no diffictilty in comprehending the membranous labyrinth in its interior—a structure in- tended to support the ultimate ramifications of the auditory nerve, and to expose them to the undulations of the fluid in the internal ear. The membranous labyrinth is a sac, situated partly in the vestibule, partly in the semicircular canals—that situated in the vestibule is termed the vestibular 'portion; that in the bony canals, the membranous semicircular canals. The semicircular canals present the same dilatations or ampullae at one end, and just at this part they nearly fill their bony cases; but in the rest of their extent the diameter of the membranous canal is not more than one-third that of the bony one. The sac in the vestibule is constricted, so as to appear like two sacs of unequal size. The larger of the two, generally called the utricle, is lodged in the fovea hemi-elliptica, and communicates with the semicircular canals. The smaller, called the saccule, lies in the fovea hemi-spherica, and communicates with the vestibular scale of the cochlea. Both sacs are filled with the endo-lymph, besides which, each contains a minute quantity of calcareous matter, called by Breschet the otoliths. These masses of cretace- ous substance seem to be suspended in the fluid contained in the sacs by the intermedium of a number of nerve filaments proceed- ing from the auditory nerve.* The membranous labyrinth is protected, inside and out, by fluid. There is the proper fluid in the interior, termed the ' endo-lymph,' of the lamina spiralis. It is placed along the outer circumference of the membrane, and, in fact, forms an integral part of it. Its fibres are of the non-striped kind, like the ciliary muscle of the eye. See Todd and Bowman, Phys. Anat. Part iii. p. 79. * From the universal presence of these chalky bodies in the labyrinth of all mammalia, and from their much greater hardness and size in aquatic animals, there 8 little reason to doubt that they perform some office of great importance in the physiology of hearing. P P