POSITION or THE HEART. 113 disease of the larynx;* that compression of the oesophagus would give rise to symptoms of stricture. Nor must we forget the imme- diate vicinity of the thoracic duct and the recurrent nerve,t and the effects which would be produced by their compression. Can one, then, be surprised that a disease which may give rise to so many different symptoms should be a fertile source of fallacy in diagnosis ? You can easily see how aneurisms of the aorta prove fatal, by bursting into the contiguous tubes or cavities; for instance, into the trachea, the oesophagus, the pleura, or the pericardium. You will see, too, why an aneurism of the first part of the arch is so much more dangerous than elsewhere. The reason is, that in this part of its course the aorta is covered only by a thin layer of serous membrane : now if an aneurism take place here, the coats of the vessel soon become distended, give way, and allow the blood to escape into the pericardium ; an occurrence which is speedily fatal, because, tbe pericardium being filled with blood, prevents the heart from acting. Position and '^^^ ^^^^'^ situated obliquely in the chest, between heart tlie lungs. Its base, i.e. the part by which it is at- tached, and from which its great vessels proceed, is directed upwards towards the right shoulder; its apex points downwards and to the left, between the fifth and sixth costal car- tilages. It is supported by the tendinous centre of the diaphragm. It is maintained in its position by a membranous bag termed the ' pericardium,' which is lined by a serous membrane to facilitate its movements. The pericardium must first claim our attention. Pericardium pericardium is the membranous bag which en- closes the heart and the large vessels at its base. It is broadest below, where it is attached to the tendinous centre of the diaphragm ; above it is prolonged over the great vessels of the heart, and is connected with the deep cervical fascia. On each * In the Museimi of Guy's Hospital there is a preparation, No. 1487, in which la^ngotomy was performed under the circumstances described in the text. t See Med. Gaz., Dec. 22nd, 1843. A case in which loss of voice was produced by the pressure of an aneurismal tumour upon the left recurrent nerve. I