418 CONTENTS OF FEMALE PELVIS. aggregated at the fundus, and less so at the junction of the Fallopian tubes. The texture of these iibres is so close that in the unira- pregnated uterus it is useless to attempt to make them out satisfactorily. The muscular fibres are arranged in three layers, external, middle, and internal. The external layer, placed imme- diately beneath the peritoneum, is thin, and its fibres run trans- versely round the uterus, some of them being continued into the round and broad ligaments. A band of longitudinal fibres passes from the anterior surface of the uterus round the fundus to its posterior aspect. The middle layer runs in all directions, and chiefly surrounds the blood vessels. The internal layer is composed mainly of concentric circles which surround the orifices of the Fallopian tubes; at the cervix its fibres are arranged transversely round it, forming a kind of sphincter. Upon the whole their collective disposition is such as to exert equal pressure on all sides, when called into operation. At the same time that they expel the foetus, the muscular fibres perform another very important function: they close the large venous sinuses developed for its nutrition. Therefore, little hae- morrhage accompanies the expulsion of the placenta, provided it have be°en attached to the fundus or the side of the uterus. But every one knows the danger of what is called ' jplacenta jprcevia: Here, the placenta, placed over the orifice of the uterus, is attached to a 'part of the organ which must of necessity expand during labour ; and every uterine contraction increases, instead of check- ing, the bleeding. For the same reason, paralysis of the mus- cular fibres in immediate connection with the placenta, be it where it may, is likely to be a source of serious haemorrhage in parturition. The Fallopian tubes or oviducts are situated, one on FaHopian ^^^^i side, along the upper border of the broad liga- ment of the uterus, and convey the ovum from the ovary to the uterus (fig. 90). They are about four or five inches in length. One end opens into the uterus; the other terminates m a wide funnel-shaped mouth, surrounded by fringe-like processes called the ' fimbriated extremity: This termination of the Fal-