516 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Besides the * circle of Willis,' there are other pecu- of the core-'' Harities in the circulation of the brain; namely, the bral circula- tortuosity of the four great vessels as they enter the skull — their passage through bony canals — their breaking up into minute arteries in the pia mater before they enter the substance of the brain—the formation of sinuses (p. 6) —the great minuteness of the capillaries, and the extreme thinness of their walls; a fact which accounts for the slowness with which a congested brain recovers itself. The mass of nervous matter contained within the Gbnerai, di- vision OF skull, designated under the common term bram, is THE BRAIN, (jiyided luto threc parts—the ' cerebrum,'' or intellectual brain, which occupies the whole of the upper part of the cranial cavity; the ' cerebellum,'' or little brain, which occupies the lower and back part beneath the tentorium; the 'pons Varolii,'' or quadrilateral mass of white fibres, which rests upon the basilar process; and the ' medulla oblongata,' situated beneath the cere- bellum. This last part passes out of the skull through the foramen magnum, and is continuous with the spinal cord. The size of the brain varies in different subjects, but in an adult male the average weight is about 48 ounces; in an adult female, about 43 ounces.* This term is applied to that part of the cerebro-spinal Medulla ob- ^^^^ which is situated immediately below the pons longata. yarolii, and is continuous below with the spinal cord. Its form is pyramidal with the broadest part above; thence it gradually tapers into the spinal cord. It is about an inch and a quarter long, and nearly an inch in its thickest part. It lies on the basilar groove of the occipital bone, and descends obliquely the skull, divide into several branches, which again unite, so as to form a remarkable network 'of arteries, called by Galen, who first described it, the ' retc mirabile.' The object of this evidently is to moderate the rapidity with which the blood would other- wise enter the cranium, in the different positions of the head, and thus preserve the brain from those sudden influxions to which it would under other circumstances be continually exposed. * Dr, R. Boyd, Pliilos. Trans., 1860.