CALr OF TllK LEG. 487 generally communicates with the knee-joint; and in the substance of the outer tendon is commonly found a small piece of fibro- cai'tilage. Lastly, between the gastrocnemius and soleus is the tendon of the plantaris. ^ . This small muscle* arises from the rough line just above the outer condyle of the femur (fig. 106). It descends close to the inner side of the outer head of the gastrocnemius, and terminates, a little below the knee, in a long tendon, which should be traced down the inner side of the tendo Achillis to the calca- neum. Its nerve comes from the popliteal. Solens "^^^^ nauscle arises from the head and upper third of the posterior surface of the fibula, from the oblique ridge on the. back of the tibia,t from about the middle third of the inner border of this bone, and from an arch thrown over the posterior tibial vessels. The fibres swell out beneath the gas- trocnemius, and terminate on a broad tendon, which, gradually contracting, forms a constituent part of the tendo Achillis. The soleus is supplied with blood by several branches from the posterior tibial; also by a large branch from the peroneal. Its nerve comes from the popliteal and enters the top of the muscle. This is an important muscle in a surgical point of view, for two reasons —1, by reflecting its tibial origin, we reach the posterior tibial artery; 2, by reflecting its fibular origin we reach the peroneal. The tendo Achillis begins about the middle of the leg, and is at first of considerable breadth, but it gradually contracts and becomes thicker as it descends. The narrowest part of it is about one inch and a half above the heel; here, therefore, it can be most con- veniently and safely divided for the relief of club-foot. There is no risk of injuring the deeper-seated parts, because they are separated from the tendon by a quantity of fat. Its precise inser, * This is the representative of the palmaris longus of the forearm. In man it is lost on the caleaneum, hut in monkeys, who have prehensile feet, it is the proper maimer ^-emarkably strong in bears and plantigrade t The tibial and fibular origins of the soleus constitute what some anatomists de- scribe as the two heads of the muscle. Between them descend the popliteal vessels, protected by a tendinous arch. •