DISSECTION OF THE OKBIT. 179 tion in disease or old age occasions the sinking of the eyes. The eye is separated from the fat by a fold of the orbital fascia, •which, like a ' tunica vaginalis,' enables the globe to roll with the greatest rapidity and precision. Lastly, the orbit contains the lachrymal gland. After the removal of the periosteum, and the fascia of the orbit, the following objects are seen. In the middle we observe the frontal nerve and artery, lying upon the levator palpebr^ ; on the inner side is the superior oblique muscle with its nerve (the 4th); on the outer side is the lachrymal gland with the lachrymal nexYe and artery. This is the largest of the three branches of the opb- nervef^ thalmic division of the fifth. It runs forwards upon the upper surface of the levator palpebras, on which it divides into two branches :— a. The supra-trochlear runs above the pulley of the superior oblique to the inner angle of the orbit, and divides into branches, which supply the skin of the upper eyelid, forehead, and nose. One or two very delicate filaments may be traced through the bone to the mucous membrane of the frontal sinuses.* b. The supra-orbital runs forwards to the supra-orbital notch, through which it ascends. It supplies the skin of the upper eye- lid, forehead, and scalp. This is the smallest of the three divisions of the ne^^^^^ ophthalmic. It runs along the outer side of the orbit with the*lachrymal artery, through the lachrymal gland, and is distributed to the upper eyelid. Its branches within the orbit are: 1, filaments to the lachrymal gland; 2, a malar, which traverses a canal in the malar bone, and supplies the skin of the cheek; 3, one or two nerves, which pass down to commu- nicate with the orbital branch of the superior maxillary division of the fifth. Fourth, or '^^^^ nerve enters the orbit above the other nerves nervus which pass through the sphenoidal fissure. It runs along the inner side of the frontal nerve, and enters * These filaments have been noticed by Bhimenbach, ' Dn Sinibus Frontal.'