COMMON ILIAC ARTERIES. 353 supplying the quadratus and psoas, they are lost in tlie wall of the abdomen.* The lumbar veins empty themselves into the vena cava in- ferior. The arteria sacra media, a diminutive continuation of the aorta, proceeds from its bifurcation, and runs down in front of the sacrum to the coccyx. In animals it is the artery of the tail. It sends off the fifth lumbar artery, and lateral branches, which anastomose with the lateral sacral arteries; it also supplies small vessels to the posterior part of the rectum. Its vein empties itself either into the left common iliac vein, or into the inferior vena cava. The vena cava inferior is formed by the iunction of Vena cava .i . . ^ , inferior. ^'^^ ''WO common iliac veins. It ascends on the right of the aorta, close to the spine in the greater part of its course. As it approaches the diaphragm, the vena cava passes off a little to the right, to go through its tendinous opening in the diaphragm, and reach the right side of the heart. Its relations, beginning from below, are—in front, the mesentery, the third part of the duodenum, the pancreas and liver; behind, the right renal artery, the right lumbar arteries, and part of the sympathetic of the right side. It receives the lumbar veins, the right spermatic (the left joins the renal), the renal, the capsular, the right phrenic, and the hepatic veins. Common iliac common iliac arteries resulting from the ARTERIES AND bifurcatiou of the aorta opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra, diverge from each other at an acute angle, towards the sacro-iliac symphysis, and after a course of about two inches, divide into the external and internal iliac. They lie close to the vertebras, and each, at or near its point of division, is crossed by the ureter; the left is crossed by the colon, and by the inferior mesentery artery. * Just as the thoracic intercostals, hy communicating with the internal mammaiy, form a vascular ring round the chest, so do the lumbar, by commxmicating with the epigastric, form a vascular ring, though less perfect, round the walls of the abdomen. A A