CONTENTS or FEMALE PELVIS. 411 half way down the front of the uterus; thence it is at once re- flected over the posterior surface of the bladder, on to the wall of the abdomen. Laterally it is reflected from the uterus to the sides of the pelvis, forming the broad ligaments (p. 419). In cases of ascites the fluid might distend the recto-vaginal pouch, and bulge into the vagina, so that it would be practicable, in some cases, to draw it off through this channel.* ^ ^ . ^ . To the description of the fascia already given in the ■ dissection of the male pelvis (p. 378), nothing need be added except that from the side of the pelvis it is reflected over the side of the vagina and the uterus as well as the bladder. It is this fascia which in great measure supports and braces up the uterus in its proper level in the pelvis. When, from any cause, the fascia becomes relaxed, there is a liability to 'prolapsus uteri.' LeTator ani. For the description of this muscle see p. 386. Bl dd r ^'^^ female bladder is broader transversely, and, upon the whole, more capacious than the male. The vesical plexus of veins is not so large, and there are no vasa deferentia or prostate gland. The short urethra has a constrictor muscle, as in the male, and is supported in a similar manner by the pelvic fascia. Venous Though the veins round the neck of the bladder are plexiis about Comparatively small in the female, attention should be the vagina, directed to the plexus of large veins which surround the vagina and the rectum. They communicate in front with the vesical plexus, and behind with the haemorrhoidal. Their con- gestion in pregnancy sufficiently accounts for the dark colour of the vagina and the external organs, and the frequent occurrence of hsemorrhoidal tumours.f These veins must be removed, with * lu the Medical Communications, vol. i., a case is related in which four gallons of fluid were drawn off by tapping through the vagina. The woman immediately after- wards passed urine, which she could not do before. See also a case in Med. and Phys. Journal, vol. vii. p. 412. t During pregnancy, varicose tumours may form even in the vagina. In the Berlin Med. Zeitung, 1840, No. 11, a case is related of a woman who, at the sixth month, bled to death from the bursting of a large vein in the vagina. Other cases of the kind are related by Siebold.