ORIGIN or THE CEREBRAL NERVES. 525 the olfactory ganglion, which lies on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. The olfactory ganglion is olive-shaped, of a reddish-grey colour and very soft consistence, due to a large amount of grey matter contained in it. It gives off from its under surface the true ol- factory nerves.* For the description of these, see p. 199. This nerve arises by three roots—an outer and an inner composed of white matter, and a central composed of grey (p. 524). The outer root passes forwards as a thin white line from the bottom of the fissure of Sylvius, and describes a curve with the concavity outwards. The inner root arises from the posterior extremity of the in- ternal convolution of the anterior cerebral lobe. The middle or grey root arises from the posterior extremity of the furrow in which the olfactory nerve is lodged ; to see it, there- fore, the nerve should be turned backwards. It contains white fibres in its interior which have been traced to the corpus striatum. These nerves proceed from the optic commissure, Second pair ^^^.^^^ the union of the two optic tracts. These or optic. •> tracts arise from the corpora quadrigemma, the corpora geniculata, and the optic thalami (p. 524). They wind round the crura cerebri, to which they are connected by their anterior borders, and join in the middle line to form the optic commissure. Tliis commissure rests on the sphenoid bone in front of the sella turcica. From the commissure each optic nerve, invested by its * Strictly speaking, the olfactory nerve and its ganglion are integral parts (the prosencephalic lobe) of the brain. What in human anatomy is called the origin of the nerve is, in point of fact, the crus of the olfactory lobe, and is in every way homo- logous to the crus cerebri or cerebelli. In proof of this, look at the enormous size and connections of the cms in animals which have very acute sense of smell. Throughout the vertebrate kingdom there is a strict ratio between the sense of smell and the de- velopment of the olfactory lobes. Again, in many animals, tliese lobes are actually larger than the cerebral, and contain in their interior a cavity which communicates with the lateral ventricles. According to Tiedemann, this cavity exists even in the hxunau foetus at an early period.