MALE PERINEUM. 364 angles to the first, the one at the upper, and the other at the lower end of it. The skin of the perineum must then be reflected out- wards. In reflecting- the skin, we have to notice the characters of the subcutaneous structure.* Its characters alter in adaptation to t-he exigencies of each part. On the scrotum the fat constituent of the tissue is entirely, and for obvious reasons, absent; while the fibro-cellular element is most abundant, and during life elastic and contractile. But, as we recede from the scrotum, and ap- proach the anus, the fat accumulates more and more, Fat in iscliio- g^^^j either side of the rectum it is found in the shape rectal fossae. . of large masses, filling up what would otherwise be two deep hollows in this situation—namely, the ischio-rectal fossae. These fossae are triangular, with their bases towards the skin, and their apices at the divergence of the obturator internus and levator ani. They are about two inches in depth, and are much deeper posteriorly than in front. The purpose of this accumulation of fat on each side of the anus, is to permit the easy distention and con- traction of the lower end of the bowel during and after the passage of the fseces.f Over the tuberosities of the ischia, we meet with large masses of fat, separated by tough, fibrous septa, passing from the skin to the bone, so as to make an elastic padding to sit upon. Occasionally, too, there are one or more large bursce, interposed between this padding and the bone. So much respecting the general characters of the subcutaneous tissue of the perineum. Some anatomists describe it as consisting of three, four, or even more layers, but in nature we do not find it so. It may, indeed, be divided into as many layers as we please, according to our skill in dissection; but this only complicates what is, in itself, simple. * The probable thickness of this subcutaneous tissue is a point which ought to be determined by the lithotomist in making his first incision. Its great thickness in some cases explains the depth to which the surgeon has to cut in letting out matter from the ischio-rectal fossa. t It is this fat in the ischio-rectal fossse which renders them so liable to the occur- rence of peculiarly foetid gangrenous abscesses. These should be opened as early as possible, lest they burst into the rectum; and one sees how deep the knife must be introduced, in order to reach the seat of the mischief.