PNEUMOGASTRIC NEltVE. 96 soon gets beneath the external carotid, and lies deeply seated by the side of the pharynx. In its course it is crossed successively by the hypoglossal nerve, the occipital artery, the digastricus and stylo-hyoid muscles; higher, it is crossed obliquely, by the styloid process, by the stylo-glossus and pharyngeus muscles, by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and the stylo-hyoid ligament, all of which last intervene between it and the external carotid. The internal jugular vein runs along the outer side of the artery. Behind the artery are the pneumogastric nerve and the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. The rectus capitis anticus major separates it from the cervical vertebrae. But after all, the most important relation of the artery in a surgical point of view is, that it ascends close by the side of the pharynx and tonsils. In opening an abscess, therefore, near the tonsils, or at the back of the pharynx, be careful to introduce the knife with its point inwards towards the mesial line: observe this caution the more, because, in some subjects, the internal carotid makes a curve, or even a complete curl upon itself, in its ascent near the pharynx. In such cases the least deviation of the instrument in an outward direction would injure the vessel. This artery generally arises from the angle of the pharyngeal common carotid, or from the commencement^ of the artery. external carotid; it ascends between the internal carotid artery and the side of the pharynx, towards the base of the skull. It gives off branches which supply the pharynx, the tonsils, the Eustachian tube, and the muscles in front of the spine. A very constant branch runs down with the levator palati, above the superior constrictor of the pharynx, and supplies the soft palate. It also sends small meningeal branches to supply the dura mater; one of which ascends through the foramen lacerum medium, and the other through the foramen jugulare with the internal jugular vein. _ _ _ The pneumogastric nerve is one of the three divisions gaTtrr" of the eighth pair of cerebral nerves. It arises from nerve. ^\yQ medulla oblongata by a series of roots along the aroove between the olivary body and the restiform tract. It