DURA MATER. 5 the anterior inferior angle of the parietal; the other curves back- wards over the temporal bone, and subsequently ramifies on the parietal bone. The artery is accompanied by two veins, which empty themselves into the internal maxillary vein. The arteria meningea parva and a meningeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal artery also supply the dura mater and bones of the middle fossa. The other meningeal arteries are of insignificant size. The anterior come from the ethmoidal branches of the ophthalmic. The posterior come from the occipital and vertebral: these enter the skull through the foramen jugulare and the fora^^ men magnum respectively. The position of the meningeal arteries renders them liable to injury in fractures of the skull; hence extravasation of blood between the skull and dura mater is one of the common causes of compression of the brain. This is so called from the notion that it gave rise Dura mater. , ^^ ,t ^ ■, . to all the other membranes m the body. It is rough on its outer aspect, where it is more or less adherent to the inner surface of the skull. Internally it is smooth and shining, being lined by the parietal layer of the arachnoid membrane. Its remarkably tough and fibrous structure adapts it exceedingly well to the four purposes which it-serves: 1. It forms the internal periosteum of the skull; 2. It forms, for the support of the lobes of the brain, three partitions—namely, the falx cerebri, the falx cerebelli, the tentorium cerebelli; 3. It forms the sinuses or venous canals which return the blood from the brain ; 4. It forms sheaths for the nerves as they leave the skull. Three parti- ^'^^ partitions formed by the dura mater for the tionsformed support of the lobes of the brain, two are vertical, and matir!'' Separate the two hemispheres of the cerebrum and those of the cerebellum ; the third is nearly horizontal, and supports the posterior cerebral lobes. Falx cerebri. "^'^^ S"^^^* partition is named, from its resemblance to the blade of a sickle, 'falx cerebri: It divides the cerebrum into two hemispheres—a right and a left. It begins in a point attached to the ' crista galli; and gradually penetrates