HISTORY. 3 No. t)j describing certain new physiological observations made by the aid of this mirror. To give more weight and value to my verbal communication, I demonstrated before my auditors the various laryngeal functions upon myself. At the same sitting, Dr. Turck, who, in consequence of my success, was struck with the importance of the subject which he had prematurely given up, and now intended to resume, made some remarks relative to the manipulation of the laryngoscope.1 1 ‘Zeitschrift d. Ges. d. Aerzte,’ zu Wien, No. 17, 26th April, 1858. Sitzungsbericht, p. 271. “Professor Czermak delivered an open lecture on the laryngoscope with demonstrations. The lecture was already (April 17th) published.” “Dr. Turck, who had already been engaged with experiments, during the past summer, relative to the employment of the laryngeal mirror upon certain individuals in the wards of the General Hospital, for diagnosis, claims, in relation to an article published in the thirteenth number of the journal, ‘Wiener medizinische Wochenschrift,’ of the 27th March, of the current year, the priority of the application of the laryngeal mirror to diagnosis. He cites as the first attempt the following method, which alone renders possible the exploration of the larynx and neighbouring parts, in a large number of in- dividuals. , “ Many persons cannot support the pressure of the mirror against the veil of the palate; Dr. Turck obviates this, as much as possible, in reserving a space for the introduction of the mirror after having caused the tongue to be pro- truded, so as to produce a hollow on its surface, of which the concavity is directed upwards; the respiration is not interrupted. “ At the same time that the tongue is projected forwards, the larynx becomes elevated in some measure, previous to the exploration. It is oftentimes of advantage to place the mirror obliquely. “ The speculum which Dr. Turck employs is composed of a mirror, small, oblong, well rounded off; of a straight stem, attached at an obtuse angle, but this varies in consequence of the flexibility of the metal; and of a straight handle, which represents the continuation of the stem. “ Dr. Turck wishes to observe, in conclusion, that he is very far from having any exaggerated hopes about the employment of the laryngeal mirror in practical medicine; that there will be given in this journal a detailed description of his method, which is here already pointed out.” I cite this literally to show how unfounded are Dr. Turck’s claims of priority, for at that time he could not bring forward any other than those few shallow observations; whereas I had already obtained, by my improved method, a series of physiological results, and had publicly recommended its general appli- cation in physics, and not solely for the diagnosis of diseases of the larynx. Although Dr. Turck was greatly encouraged by Professor Bruecke and others, not to lay aside the laryngoscope, he nevertheless entirely abandoned his attempts, after Garcia’s simple method, made during the summer of 1857. He did this, discouraged by difficulties which he could not overcome, and with-