LARYNGOSCOPE. 8 It is understood that the mirrors caimot represent any other image than that of the parts that lie uncovered in the axis of vision, and in the direction of the luminous rays. Prom what has been just stated, it follows, that— 1. It is necessary that the various organs of the mouth and pharynx should be placed in a suitable position; this can be accomplished more or less perfectly, either by changing the position of the neck and head, or by causing certain movements to be performed by the person examined (such as a sudden deep inspiration, the intonation of vowels, especially of the sound eh /, singing, laughing, &c.,) or in using various mechanical means (as the employment of a tongue depresser, or manual aid of an assistant, &c.). 2. The mirror must be maintained at a certain angle in a suitable place at the back part of the mouth, by the aid of its long stem. It is understood that the surface of the mirror should be turned at the same angle towards the eye of the observer, as to the parts being examined. 3. The visual axis of the observer should be placed in the same direction as the bright rays which illuminate the laryngeal mirror ; this may be easily managed by the aid of a pierced illuminating mirror (see page 15, Fig. 5). In fact, we may succeed in seeing in this way, in the living, the deep portion of the pharynx, the parts which form the larynx, and, if the passage through the glottis is widely open, the cartilaginous rings of the trachea projecting from their mucous membrane; we may perceive likewise, as I have demonstrated for the first time upon myself (see Chap. IV, end of Section I), the bifurcation of the trachea. It is unnecessary to remark that the whole of this region cannot always be examined with the same facility, nor to the same extent; because there are certain places more difficult to see than others,1 1 Garcia has seen only the two posterior thirds of the vocal apparatus. In my first experiments I succeeded in seeing more of them; but I then believed that it was necessary to use two mirrors, inclined one against the other, or one convex mirror with a short radius, in order to perceive the anterior point of insertion of the vocal cords. Dr. Turck (No. 5) is the first who remarked, with justice, that we can see the whole of the posterior surface of the epiglottis, and the anterior angle of insertion of the vocal cords, by the aid of the simple laryngeal mirror. On the other hand (‘ Bib.,’ No. 19), profiting by the system of double mirrors, proposed by myself, he has described a particular disposition of two mirrors, by the aid of which the posterior walls of the larynx are perceived with great facility, and to a much larger extent.