164 ATROPHY OF THE It would lead me too far were I to endeavour still further to illustrate., by different examples of congenital malformations, the friend. Professor W. Yrolik, received a fresh anencephalus, I suggested to him to inject the vessels and institute an accurate microscopic investigation. With this my friend readily complied, and has communicated the results of this and of a second case in the * Nederlandsch Weekblad voor Geneeskundigen ’ of the 12th October, 1851, p. 410, which, however, I did not receive until after this essay had been sent in. The results of this investigation are, in many respects, important. In the first place, he found in the red sanguineous mass imme- diately investing the denuded base of the skull, and on which the malformed cerebral vesicles lie, the most beautiful muscular bundles, with the well-known transverse strise. Among these-fasciculi of muscular fibres, the central ex- tremities of the cerebral nerves are recognisable, appearing in the centre, and being imperceptibly lost in the musculo-fibrous tissue which constitutes the principal mass of the base of the skull. In the second place, he discovered that, with the exception of the olfactory nerve (which cannot properly be considered as a nerve-trunk), none of the other cerebral nerves exhibited the ordinary microscopic marks of primitive nerve-fibres, with the well-known double contour, and the distinction between the sheath and its contents, but appeared to consist of nothing else than con- nective tissue, with numerous nuclei and nuclear-fibres among it, as if the entire structure of these nerves had remained in the neurilematic element. In the Gasserian ganglion were, as usual, well-developed ganglionic cells, while the nerve-fibres running between them wanted all the ordinary marks of primitive fibres. But the remark is of importance, that this unnatural condition of the primitive fibres was confined to the central extremities of the cerebral nerves; in their peripheric distribution they exhibited the normal structure; at least, this was true of the facial, vagus and hypoglossal nerves, which he examined. The same was found to be the case in a second example, in which likewise the central terminations of the cerebral nerves were deficient in distinctly marked primitive fibres. As a summary of his results, my friend gives “an unnatural structure of the central terminations of the cerebral nerves, which seemed to have remained in their neurilematic element, and therefore in the stage of sheath- or tube- formation of connective tissue, while the proper primitive fibres were wanting. In the brain, too, the primitive fibres were absent. Lastly, the primitive bundles of striated muscular fibres on the base of the skull are a proof of the independent formation of the parts of the body, each in the situation belonging to it. Unmistakeably,” he continues, “they are the fibres of the frontal, occipital, and temporal muscles, which, although wanting the surface where they are usually expanded, have formed independently, and have mingled with the imperfect and unfinished cerebral elements. The coexistence of these perfectly striated fasciculi of primitive muscular fibres with the imperfect condition of the cerebral nerves, the central terminations of which we sec appearing among the muscular fibres, might furnish an argument, if there were