PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 51 between the lips of the tumefied and infiltrated mucous membrane, which remained gaping for some time. Nevertheless, we did not succeed in forcing the least quantity of air through the larynx. Beside the phenomenon of intelligible utterance, notwithstanding the complete dumbness of this patient, about which I made a com- munication to the Academy of Sciences of Vienna, presented by Professor Brucke (March 17th, 1859), ^ must again relate here two physiological observations which are not devoid of interest, and which I have had occasion to study also upon this patient. The first concerns the derangement of the sense of smell, caused by the closure of the larynx; the second relates to the flow of tears, which was not at all interfered with. We know, especially from the researches of Bidder, that the direction and force of currents of air through the nose, impregnated with odorous particles, regulates the sense of smell. Ludwig states, that “ currents of air impregnated with odorous particles especially produce sensations when they pass through the nose, from before backwards. Also, do we not dilate the nostrils and draw in the air rapidly and in a jerking manner, when we wish to examine the odour of a substance ? It seems, then, that rapid currents of air have for their immediate result the placing in intimate contact the smelling surfaces with the odorous particles, and that the shock of the cur- rent, or the friction, occasions a pressure which favours absorption.”1 It was not astonishing that the patient had lost the sense of smell. It is proper to remark, however, that the sense of smell was not equally destroyed, but varied according to the substances used; the patient, for instance, recognised the odour of geranium leaves which were bruised, also that of very strong perfumes, but she was insen- sible to the odour of violets or of hyacinths; the sense of smelling was somewhat improved, after she had learned to produce feeble currents of air through the nasal cavity, by means of sudden and energetic contraction of the pharynx and of the buccal cavity; lastly, that a current of air, which wras forced by the aid of a bellows into her nose from a bouquet of violets or of hyacinths, produced a sensation which, however, was very feeble. In what relates to the flow of tears, our observation proved that which is already generally known, namely, that negative pressure exercised in the nasal cavity during inspiration is no necessary con- 1 f Lehvbuch dev Physiologie/ vol. i, p. 290,