LARYNGOSCOPE. 40 When the respiration becomes more or less agitated,, it some- times happens that the arytenoid cartilages execute synchronous movements, like the alee of the nose in dyspnoea. They then slightly approach one another during each expiration; they are widely- separated during each inspiration; the tubercles which correspond to the cartilages of Santorini are alternately projecting or obliterated. It is not easy to suppress suddenly these synchronous movements by the will, when they have taken place. In examining the trachea through the open glottis, we perceive, as has been already pointed out by'Garcia, the cartilaginous rings upon its anterior wall. But, on widely opening the glottis, and in straightening the trachea, I was enabled to show to Dr. Elfinger, after having fixed his attention upon this subject, the bifurcation of my trachea and the commencement of my bronchial tubes (Plate II, fig. 7, b cl, b s). This surprising fact, which I had already demon- strated in April, 1858, has been afterwards proved on numerous occasions. It is impossible to observe upon one's self the com- mencement of the bronclii, in consequence of the position which it is necessary7 to give to the neck and the laryngoscope. But I saw this bifurcation for the first time in a patient, on the 25th of January7, 1859 (see Chap. Y, Case 6); and it was likewise perceived later by Dr. Semeleder, of Vienna, Dr. Lewin, of Berlin, and by Dr. Turck, of Vienna.1 Section II.—The Mechanism of Closure of the Larynx. It may here be permitted me, in the first place, to recall some anatomical details already pointed out by Santorini, but since for- gotten or incorrectly described, and to which my attention has first been drawn by autolaryngoscopy. I have already stated, that I could perceive in myself, at the inferior part of the posterior Avail of the epiglottis, when sufficiently elevated, a prominent reddish cushion, situated immediately above the point of insertion of the vocal cords, which it frequently the intercartilaginous and the interligamentous glottis.—Note of the German Translator. 1 In Paris, I exhibited this upon myself, to Doctors Bouvier, Des- ormeaux, Mandl, and some of the house-surgeons of the Hospital for Sick Children.