DESCRIPTION OP METHOD OP LISTON AND GARCIA. 9 or which have not as yet been examined, such as, for example, the posterior wall of the trachea. The parts which may be observed in the greater number of instances, if the observer is skilful and per- severing, and which are completely invisible, or are rarely or never seen but with difficulty, without the aid of the laryngoscope, are— the base of the tongue, the walls of the pharynx, the epiglottis, the aryteno-epiglottic ligaments, the arytenoid cartilages, the true and false vocal cords, the ventricles of Morgagni, the anterior wall of the larynx, and lastly, a portion more or less considerable of the anterior wall of the trachea. These facts are sufficient to prove that the method proposed by Liston and Garcia is one of great importance for correct observation in physiology and medicine; but the value of this proceeding acquires even higher importance in its application. Again, as I have already observed in regard to it, in my first essay ('Bib./ No. i), "The eye directs the hand of the operator in those regions habitually con- cealed from view (see Chapter III, Section VI). On the other hand, this principle again meets with a wide application in correctly ex- amining other parts inaccessible to the eye.” (See the Examina- tion after Laryngotomy, Chapter Y, cases i and 3; and the Inspection of the Posterior Orifice of the Nasal Cavity, Chapter III, Section Y.) Nevertheless, in spite of the simplicity of the principle, many ob- stacles and difficulties present themselves against the advantageous employment of the laryngoscope, and its correct appreciation by physiologists and physicians; even actually notwithstanding the numerous proofs of its application, many persons become discouraged after certain fruitless attempts, as did my predecessors up to the time of Garcia. These difficulties and obstacles result in part from the excitability, sometimes very considerable, at the back part of the mouth, 011 its coming into contact with a foreign body; from the difficulty which many persons experience in opening their mouths wide enough, and of mastering the movements of the tongue; also from the con- formation and unfavorable disposition of organs; and in fine, chiefly from the inexperience and awkwardness of the investigator. The introduction of the mirror with facility and confidence, and consequently without any unusual excitement of the back part of the mouth; its prompt application to the most favorable and least sensitive spot; the habit of detecting and recognising the reflected