158 ATROPHY OF THE glion of this nerve :l so that if the first branch of the fifth pair is cut through, atrophy of the eye ensues, but this does not take place if the whole trunk of the nerve is cut through above the ganglion, leaving the ganglion in connexion with the first branch of the fifth pair. This vegetative influence of the sensitive nerv& extends even over the muscles, and when the sensitive nerves, united with the motor, pass through the muscles, they appear to give off vegetative branches to the latter. This is established chiefly by the important experi- ments of Longet, who found that, after the division of the branches of the fifth pair, the muscles of the face atrophied and became dis- obedient to stimuli more rapidly than after division of the facial nerve. Indeed, after division of this last nerve irritation of the divided ends excited no contraction in the muscles after the fourth day; but on the direct application of galvanism to the muscles themselves, the latter maintained their contractility for at least three months, and exhibited scarcely a trace of atrophy; after dividing the hypoglossus 1 Magendieet Desmoulins,‘ Anatomie cles Animaux a vertebres,5 Paris, 1825, p. 710. ‘Journal de Physiol.,5 tome iv, p. 176. See also among several cases an example of affection of the Gasserian ganglion, with atrophy of the eye, in Serres5 ‘Anatomie comparee du Cerveau,5 tome ii, pp. 67 et seq. By the experiment of Dr. Snellen, in his dissertation ‘On the Influence of the Nerves on Inflammation,5 Utrecht, 1857, die conclusion drawn from Magendie’s ex- periment is rendered doubtful. According to Snellen, the cause of the inflam- mation of the eye after the division of the fifth nerve is the result of mechanical injury of the eye, as the animal does not feel that he hits it. But if the eye- lids be sewn together, and the ear, which has remained sensitive, be fixed in front of the eye, the animal no longer hits the latter, and in this case the insensible eye does not become inflamed. In one instance I saw the eye clear after the lapse of ten days. Nevertheless, I doubt whether atrophy would not have supervened after a longer period. It is, however, absolutely certain, that on division of the first branch of the trigeminus, vascular paralysis and dilatation of the vessels in the eye set in, as Schiff has subsequently pointed out. ‘Lehrbuch der Physiologie,5 i860, 1 Th., pp. 382 et seq. But the influence of the ganglia on nutrition and the develop- ment of inflammation is placed beyond all doubt by the experiments of Dr. Samuel. ‘Schmidt’s Jahrbiicher,5 1859, No. 10, p. 102. This writer irritated the Gasserian ganglion by the introduction of two needles, through which he passed a galvanic current, whereupon the conjunctiva immediately became red, the secretion of tears was increased, the sensibility of the eye was exalted, and violent ophthalmia set in within twenty-four hours, and passed into superficial ulceration of the cornea. It would, however, appear that, as Schiff has pointed out, it makes no differ- ence whether the division take place before or behind the ganglion, as Magendie asserted. ‘ Physiol.,’ p. 385.