274 THE IMPORTANCE OF positive answer to the question, whether the agent produces any effect or not, but that, in that case, the potentiality of the agent cannot he considered as absolutely established. In such a case its potentiality will undoubtedly possess a certain amount of probability; and it would he well to catalogue the result under the head of “ probable, but as yet not absolutely certain,” so as to keep the completion of certainty on the point open until similar results shall have been obtained from later researches. With the view of meeting the misconception just alluded to, viz., that the observations which do not comply with the conditions of my rules leave the question for the determination of which they were instituted entirely unanswered—i. e. that they assert as much for as against the potentiality of the agent under examination—I have sent to Dr. Boecker a note on the subject, which he has introduced in his paper “ On the effects of Bat on the Excretions.” (OesterleiPs ‘ Zeit- schrift fur Hygieine, Medicinisclie Statistik und Sanitatspolizei/ 1859, v°l- h Part E P- 92—5.) In this note I have recommended that in the cases in which the mean difference is less than the sum of the mean fluctuations, but greater than its half, the result which the mean numbers give should he assumed to he “ conditionally reliable above, that where the conditions of my rules are not complied with, mathema- tical considerations are by no means dispensed with; and it is expressly stated that, in that case, the conclusion only loses certainty, without, however, on that account, at once sinking below reliable probability (i. e., below the point where mathematical probability becomes less than one half). By “ other con- siderations/’ Dr. Lehmann means especially the establishment of other indi- cations of reliable probability, which are of a very undefined and precarious character. Thus, for instance, he introduces one of these considerations, where he assumes one of Boecker’s double series of eight numbers, on the pre- text of making its character more evident, as representing the results of two different classes of business in the transactions of a merchant. The mean difference is 191; the sum of the mean fluctuations is 234 ; therefore mathe- matics leave the result undecided, and it is added, “ that, so far as mathema- tical considerations are concerned, the merchant would, by prolonging liis course of business, be a loser, though he would feel justified from the numbers in carrying out such a course.” If this illustration is to pass muster, the eight numbers in question ought to represent the results obtained on any eight indi- vidual days (I might even assert, of any eight individual weeks), and I should therefore consider the supposed merchant very rash, if he were to enter upon a new course of business on the faith of eight such numbers, which admit of no conclusion whatever as to how much of the results obtained was caused by simple coincidences. The “ other considerations” in this case consist only in a superficial view of the numbers involved.