119 CEREBRAL SINUSES. debilitating diseases, shortly before death, which it tends to acceler- ate. In the thrombosis which results from inflammatory and sloughing processes, on the contrary, the thrombus frequently con- tributes less directly to death, and being of slower growth, exists for a considerable time during life, while, from the imbibition of pur- ulent and sanious matter, it has a greater disposition to break down, and is, consequently, found in a more advanced stage of metamor- phosis in the dead body. It still remains to point out the difference observable in the two, series in reference to the pathologico-anatomical changes in the brain and its membranes. While, in the cases of the first series, purulent and sloughing inflammations of the arachnoid and dura and pia mater, with formation of abscesses in the brain (in thirty- two cases nineteen times, or 6o per cent.), occur, which, in the minority, must be regarded as causal elements in the production of the thrombi, in the majority as co-effect of the same cause, viz., of the caries, &c., it has already been remarked that effusions of blood upon the membranes of the brain in caries of the petrous bone are only twice mentioned, and then only to a slight extent, while extravasations into the substance of the brain did not occur at all. And in the other twelve cases of this group we only three times find mention of extravasations, of which one (No. 24) in the substance of the brain must be regarded rather as the immediate result of external violence; the two others (28 and 29) had their seat in the arachnoid, upon the left hemisphere and upon the medulla oblongata, and were inconsiderable. In the thirty-two cases, therefore, there are only four (12*5 per cent.) in which extra- vasations existed which could be regarded as consequences of the thrombosis. In the second series, on the contrary, we but seldom observe inflammations of the brain and its membranes; in No. 42, a thin layer of exudation mingled with blood-corpuscles upon the arachnoid, and, in No. 44, purulent arachnitis, i. e. twice altogether (12 per cent.), whilst the extravasations, on the other hand, are much more frequent and extensive. In eight cases out of sixteen (^o per cent.), effusions of blood, for the most part considerable, were found; twice, large apoplectic clots in the brain; twice, exten- sive extravasations in the arachnoid; and several times very extensive capillary haemorrhages and red softening of the substance of the brain. If we inquire into the cause of this difference in an ana- tomical point of view, the explanation of it as regards the first point