41 PHYSIOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. prevents from being seen, and which, it seems even to touch in the production of the most acute sounds that it has been possible for me to emit. But this projecting cushion is not a peculiarity of my own larynx; for 1 have confirmed its presence, more or less developed, throughout the greater number of persons whom I have examined by the aid of the laryngoscope.1 2 On examining a larynx divided along the middle line, we see that the epiglottis, starting from the point of in- sertion of the vocal cords, is at first convex posteriorly, then a little higher up concave, and then near the superior free border it is again convex behind. We see this cushion in front when the larynx is open in dividing the posterior wall. The cushion begins at the point of insertion of the four vocal cords, and is enlarged a little higher up. Soemmering gives \ an excellent drawing of a transverse section; and Santorini describes this configuration of the epiglottis with all the correctness of *the ancient anatomists :3 “ Epiglottis igitur etsi ederse folio a veteribus potissimum similis habita fuit, longe absimilem earn esse, quisque facta collatione intel- liget. Hujus etenim ima pars acuto mucrone assurgens, acuta pro- ductaque convexitate interius prominet, qua dein sensim paulatimque latescente circa mediam interioremque partem in concavam capaci- tatem explicatur, qiue circa superiora reflexis exterius undequaque oris, tandem extrema reducta, et leniter circa medium cava revoluta crepido in superiora fertur. Inferior hujusce pars latum fere digitum supra glottidem, atque adeo paulo supra laryngis ventricu- lorum priora extrema inferiori thyroidis angulo innectitur, inde sensim producta paulum in posteriora inclinatur, atque acuta ea, ac prominente interiore parte, quse velut in oblongam aciem compo- nitur, ita glottidi imminet, ut pro diverso hujusce applicationis modo, diversimode spiritus e glottidis arcto erumpens diremptus, in causa potissimum est, cur ex eo primum sonorum diversitas habeatur.” “ Superiora vero media ejusdem epiglottidis latior, et cava pars in posteriora ulterius inclinatur, atque circum laterales oras laxe eo 1 See, in Cliap. Y, the figures which accompany Cases io, ii, and 17. 2 ‘leones Organorum Humanorum Gustis et Yocis’ (Erancfort-sur-le-Mein, 1808, pi. ii, fig. 19). 3 ‘Observations Anatomicee’ (Lugduni Batavorum, 1739, in4to, chap, vi, “De Larynge,” sect. 10, p. 107.