THE IMPOHTANCE OE 196 proportion as the difference in composition of the substances in question approaches the limits of possible error.1 A third example of the case in which the Arithmetic Mean re- presents the probable value of a definite fixed quantity would be found in the two series of urinary quantities given in Section III, as well as in the serial determinations of the principal elements of the urine in the same investigations, supposing (which, in reality, is not the case) the amount of urine excreted, or its chemical con- stitution were day by day uniformly the same in each respective series. The fact is, however, that these numbers belong to the case which we shall hereafter investigate, where the combined numbers represent the measure of a changeable quantity. In order to characteristically differentiate the Mean described in the previous from that of the present paragraph, it may be said that in the former case we have to do with several numbers of definite value, whilst in the present one we have to determine a single num- ber from several which are of indefinite value. Section Y.—Estimation of the accuracy of the Mean as indicating the probable value of a fixed quantity. If the two conditions indicated in the preceding paragraph, under which the Arithmetic Means exhibit the probable value of the quantities to be determined by them, were always fulfilled, the num- bers. they give should then be treated as absolutely accurate. But as this is never completely the case, a standard is requisite, especially when we compare several Means with one another, by reference to which their reliability may be estimated. I will, therefore, now in- 1 This will be easily illustrated by an example. Suppose that we are com- paring the percentage of carbon, say, in two given substances, and that a cer- tain number of observations gives us 50 as the Mean in one of them, with a fluctuation of 5 (i. e.} to 45 or to 55), and, consequently, a possible range of error of 10; whilst the other gives us 60 as the Mean, with the same amount of fluctuation (i.e., to 55 or to 65), and the same range of possible error. It will be evident that the difference between these two substances, i. e., 10, does not exceed the limit of possible error, which is also 10; hence the necessity either of repeating our observations until the range of possible error is reduced to a much smaller amount, or else of placing little or no reliance upon the difference of percentage composition which the numbers 50 60 would otherwise represent.—Translator.