THROMBOSIS OF THE 9.2 other hand, the liver and spleen are often mentioned as enlarged and hypersemic, and the latter as softened simultaneously with enlarge- ment of the glands of the small intestines. As regards the symptoms during life I may be brief, and refer my readers to the excellent and comprehensive description in Leberffs work. Otorrhcea was never absent during life, and pain in the affected ear and corresponding side of the head were generally present; abscesses in the neighbourhood of the mastoid process are frequent occurrences, because the caries and purulent infiltration easily extend from the petrous bone to the spongy cells of the mastoid process. One symptom proper to the disease and obstruc- tion of the sinus, and furnishing a certain diagnosis of them, was not observed in the cases above mentioned. Heusinger1 only mentions considerable distension of the frontal vein during life, which might be regarded as a consequence of the thrombosis of the sinus. That changes in the brain and its membranes so considerable as those mentioned above should give rise to cerebral symptoms may be assumed a priori, and thus we actually observe all the phenomena of excitement, such as delirium and convulsions, and of depression of the functions of the brain, such as paralysis of the motor and sensory nerves, stupor, sopor, and coma, although sometimes, with very considerable lesions of the brain (two abscesses in its substance), any special cerebral symptoms were wanting, as in Heusinger’s case. As might be expected also with the frequent occurrence of metas- tatic and secondary inflammations, the pyeemic fever symptoms and the phenomena proper to the organs secondarily affected, such as cough, pain in the side, diarrhoea, &c., are mentioned in more than half the cases. But I must remark, as others have done already, that the post-mortem appearances do not always correspond to the phenomena observed during life, as it sometimes happens that^with decided pysemic symptoms during life, no metastatic processes arc met with in the dead body, and, conversely, still more frequently metastases were present in the dead body while none of the peculiar phenomena were observed during life.2 1 Loc. citat. 2 As a detailed communication of the twenty cases of this kind examined by me would be of no further use, I refer to the literary sources to which I had recourse. These are—1. Puchelt, ‘ Venensystem,’ ii, 177. 2. Abercrombie, ‘ Krankheiten des Gehirns und Rtickenmarks.’ Deutsch von v. d. Busch, 49