Ill CEREBRAL SINUSES. Case 46.1—A. girl, twelve years old, liad been suffering for a month with feverish symptoms, anorexia, profuse diarrhoea, &c. When admitted into the hospital, her case was looked upon as an advanced stage of typhus. The diarrhoea continued, and her con- dition at the end of thirteen days was little improved. Clonic and tonic convulsions, with loss of consciousness, but not of sensibility, suddenly supervened. These phenomena lasted an hour, after which the patient became quiet. A fresh accession soon occurred, however, with trembling of the muscles, which lasted till death. The convul- sions were followed by coma, with contraction of the fore-arms and hands, and contracted pupils; pulse 100. Death. Sectio.—There were found typhous ulcers, partly cicatrized, partly undergoing the healing process, and small spots of purpura on the mucous membrane of the stomach and pelvis of the kidneys; similar small ecchymoses beneath the skin of the lower extremities, formed in the last hours of life. The whole of the longitudinal sinus was obstructed by a coagulum everywhere adherent and partly discoloured, as also all the veins of the pia mater communicating with it. The other sinuses were unchanged. The whole of the pia mater on the surface of the brain and between its convolutions replete with blood, and in some places, especially in the right Sylvian fissure, more con- siderable extravasations existed. In the right anterior lobe, a cavity filled with blood, partly recent, partly of longer standing. To these eleven cases I add four others communicated by Dr. Gerhardt. They all occurred in very young, artificially fed children, and agree very closely with each other. Case 47.2—A little girl, eight years old, fed artificially, and very emaciated, was seized with diarrhoea accompanied by cough, with symptoms of bronchitis and consolidation of the pulmonary tissue. The integuments of the head loose, the greater fontanelle small and sunken, the bones of the skull overlapping each other. Cyanosis; the vessels between the greater fontanelle and the temple much gorged; the right external jugular vein very little, the left very much distended. Occasional screaming; contraction of the muscles of the neck; unconsciousness; death. 1 Bouchut, ‘ Gaz. des Hopitaux,’ No. 126, 1857. ‘ Canst. Jahresbericht/ pro 1857, iii, 222. ? ‘Deutsche Klinik/ 1857, No. 45.