88 THROMBOSIS OF THE diminution of fhe mass of the blood, a thickening of the same, and a decrease in the power of the heart. With these preliminary remarks I address myself to the facts of the matter as we find them mentioned in works on the subject. From the works1 to which I had access I have collected fifty- seven cases in which the formation of thrombi in the sinuses of the brain is mentioned. A comparison of these cases in reference to their causation shows that, in thirty-two, the thrombosis was the result of gangrenous, erysipelatous, and suppurative inflammations of those parts of the body (neck, face, orbits, bones of the skull, brain and its membranes) whose vessels are in close connexion with the sinuses; in four it appeared to result from a diminution of the calibre of the sinus, by the intrusion of foreign bodies and tumours, or from pressure from without upon the sinus or upon the internal jugular vein. In fifteen it appears to have been occasioned by cir- cumstances which lessened the force of the circulation, namely, by previous debilitating diseases in individuals for the most part feeble already (aged persons and children). Lastly, in six cases nothing positive as to the cause could be ascertained from the history. In the following sections I shall give the cases in the various groups, partly in detail, partly in an abreviated form, and append the reflections arising from them concerning the nature of the causes, the anatomical position, and the changes in the thrombi within the sinuses, as well as concerning their consequences. I. Thrombosis of the Sinuses from.i Inflammatory Processes in the neighbourhood of them. Caries of the bones of the shill furnishes the largest contingent to this section, viz., twenty-seven cases out of thirty-two, and amongst these, again, caries of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, the 1 Unfortunately I could not obtain Tonnel6’s work in the * Arch. g6n. de M6d.,* vol. xix, ser. i, 1829, p. 610, and in the ‘ Journ. heirdom.’ of February 5th, 1829, the cases mentioned in which arc only known to me from Lebert’s paper (‘Yirch. Archiv/ 8, 381), and from the communications by Albers (‘Rust’s Mag./ 41, 139), and from Rilliet and Barthez, in their work on the Diseases of Children,’