ARITHMETIC MEANS. 20 7 observance of as uniform a mode of life as possible the remaining in- fluences will fluctuate as little above as below a certain mean, so that we may apply the law laid down in Section IY, viz., that with a suffi- cient number of observations the Arithmetic Means of the influences become more and more identical. (This approach to uniformity will also make itself apparent in the Arithmetic Mean of the observations, since these only differ from the real amount of the influences at work by the errors of observation.) If, therefore, these real amounts were known, and if one were to take their excessive means, their fluctua- tions would gradually but manifestly diminish and converge to a certain Mean value (which we will call p0). If we now represent the divergence of the quantities / and p from p0 by j3' and j3 respec- tively (consequently / =p0 ± j3V andp ^p0 ± (3), jS'and j3 will gra- dually become less and less, and / and p more and more uniform, as soon as the observations are sufficiently numerous. The daily average quantities of the series A and B, viz., pJ -\-q and p, which are assumed to be free from errors of observation, will also approach nearer and nearer to the fixed values p^+q andy?0. Let us take, again, as an example, Kaupp's series of observations quoted in Section Y, a, which is more suitable here than it was there, where, in order to be able to employ them, we were obliged to assume the fiction that the quality of the urine did not change during the twelve days. Tor our present purpose the only fiction wdiich it is necessary for us to introduce is that physical conditions and atmo- spheric influences remain uniform during the period of observation. In this instance q indicates the daily influence of the dose of chlo- ride of sodium, and if we assume at the outset that the analyses are sufficiently accurate to limit the influence of the errors of measure- ment to the third decimal, we may conclude that first two decimals are free from errors of observation. Of the successive Means (com- mencing with the sixth) 24.10 — 24.15—24.05 — 24.31 — 24.15 — 24.10 — 24.10,/+£ represents the value of the first (supposing that the observations were broken off on the sixth day), p'-\-q repre- sents that of the second (if they were broken off on the seventh day), and so on, until the twelfth, of which the value would also be / 4- q. But, as q would be constant, under the supposition that the conco- mitant physical conditions would be unaltered, the fluctuations 1 The double sign ± is used because the real quantity / may either exceed the mean value by /3', or be less than it by the same amount.