PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 59 Fig. 19. colour through the transparent mucous membrane, presented on the right a notch or depression. Nevertheless, I do not believe that it is a pathological phenomenon, because I have likewise observed such irregularities in a state of health. Figure 19 gives a sketch of the parts, the glottis being half open. The hoarseness is explained by the swollen superior right vocal cord, which is applied upon the anterior part of the glottis a little open, in consequence of the retraction of the inferior vocal cord. Con- tributing also in a great measure to form the glottis, this false vocal cord consider- ably restrained the production of the vibra- tions, which were besides already irregular Fig. 19. Retraction of the right in- in consequence of the retraction of the right vocal cord, which allowed the anterior part of the glottis to remain widely open. ferior vocal cord, with swelling of the superior vocal cord of the same side. Case 6.—Partial destruction of the epiglottis, with considerable swelling of the false vocal cords ; hoarseness degenerating into aphonia ; congenital fissure of the velum. Inspection of the entire trachea, down to the bifurcation. P. P—, a clerk, was affected with a chancre in 1847; the same year, he was seized with a hoarseness, wdiicli degenerated into aphonia. His voice is better about the middle of the summer, when the weather is dry. The application of the laryngoscope (25th January) could be made with great facility, the patient having a complete congenital fissure of the velum palati. Fig. 20 gives a sketch of the image obtained by the laryngoscope. The glot- tis is half open. The epiglottis, considerably thickened on the right side, is notched in the middle; the border and posterior sur- face show evident traces of loss of sub- stance. The superior vocal cords are con- siderably relaxed and swollen, in such a manner that they touch one Fig. 20. Fig. 20. Partial destruction of the epiglottis. Considerable swelling of the false vocal cords (su- perior).