THROMBOSIS OT THE 124 Case 55.—Ammon1 relates an equally curious case of disease in a boy of fifteen, who was first seized with gastric symptoms. These were followed by headache, vomiting, loss of sight, distortion of the face, delirium, sopor, paralysis of the bladder, and subsequently of all the limbs, and finally by death. The coats of the veins in the dura mater were greatly thickened, as were also the walls of the superior longitudinal sinus, the calibre of which was diminished by a deposit of a gelatinous, whitish-yellow mass upon the inner coat. Hypersemia and oedema of the membranes, with gelatinous exudation on the surface of the brain. Effusion into the lateral ventricles. General pulpy softening of the whole brain, especially of the thalami optici. The Pacchionian glands were enlarged. Here, also, an earlier diseased condition of the sinus appears to have existed, in consequence of which, under circumstances which cannot indeed be explained, a general dropsy of the brain and its meninges was developed. A thrombus-formation, properly so called, appears, however, not to have taken place, unless we think proper to regard the whitish-yellow deposit upon the coat of the sinus as such. If we once more sum up briefly the results of the foregoing in- vestigations, we may express them as follows : Thrombosis of the sinuses of the brain is either a prolongation from the neighbouring veins, or it originates primarily in the sinus. A. Thrombosis of the sinuses by prolongation is the consequence— I. Of processes of inflammation tending to necrosis and sanies in the vascular precincts of the sinus. These consist chiefly in caries of the bones of the skull, caries of the petrous bone from internal otitis being most frequent. II. Of injuries of the bones of the skull, inasmuch as the haemor- rhage from the diploe which follows them leads to coagulation (haemorrhagic thrombosis). III. Of effusions of blood into the substance of the brain or its membranes, from which the thrombus extends through the smaller veins into the sinuses (haemorrhagic thrombosis). This form of thrombosis is characterised by the situation of tin' thrombus in the sinus (generally azygous) nearest to the cause; by 1 ‘Medecin. Aon./ viii, p. 208.