ON THE USE OF 280 Rhazes, in the beginning of the tenth century, applied water, made cold by snow, to burns, but treated fractures with moist warmth. After that, the use of cold seems to have entirely gone out of practice, for Marianus Sanctus, and also Blondus, in the sixteenth century, recommend pure cold water as a new remedy of rapid and certain efficacy in the treatment of even the most serious wounds. Other celebrated surgeons of the time, and especially Ambrose Pare, Pallopius, and Palatius, express themselves to the same effect. Palatius applied also continued cold affusions to severe wounds with the best results. In the seventeenth century cold water seems to have been but very little used. The remedy was probably too simple for the sur- geons of that time. They treated injuries almost entirely with ointments and plasters, which were compounded of the most various and strange ingredients. In the eighteenth century cold came again into favour. Smith, an Englishman, and Samorier, a Erenchman, were the chief advocates of cold water in the treatment of wounds. The latter had a special liking for continued local water baths, and has reported three in- teresting cases which he cured with that treatment exclusively. He regrets that pure cold water was so little used in the treatment of wounds, and blames the public for it, who thought slightingly of so simple a remedy, and would give credit only to such medicaments as were expensive and strange, and came from distant countries. The Erench surgeon Chirac treated a severe wound of the hand, which the Duke of Orleans had received during the siege of Turin, with continued local baths, and made a good cure of it. (Chirac, 'Observations de Chirurgie/ 1742.) But, nevertheless, this method of treatment again fell into desuetude in Erance, and it was not before the latter half of the eighteenth century that German army-surgeons reintroduced the use of cold into medical practice. Among them the greatest credit is due to Smucker, who was first surgeon-general of the Prussian army under Erederick the Great. He made his observations on the effect of cold in the treatment of injuries of the head, during the siege of Schweidnitz, in the year 1762. In his work, ' Chirurgischen Wahrnehmungen/ 1774, vol i, p. 9, and p. 153, he first reports twelve cases of injuries of the scalp which ended fatally, in spite of most careful treatment. This induced him to think of a new method