215 ARITHMETIC MEANS. period, in the series of Successive Means, the fluctuations about the Mean will diminish with every step beyond the limits of a single period; and, above all, that a manifest diminution will occur so soon as the limits of the first period shall have been passed, and that, as above, we shall be able to determine more definitely the limits of error. Even if the periods in the individual concomitant series of fluc- tuations are not of sufficiently equal length and magnitude, no important alteration will be effected in the above result, except that in the most unfavorable cases, if, at the termination of the investigation, periods of shorter duration should interpose, the limits of error might turn out to be a little too small. (b) Let us suppose that the fluctuations are occasioned by an in- fluence that acts all at once, that is, by a disturbance in the more exact sense of the word. Thus, to take an illustration from a definite set of figures, suppose that the disturbance developed the numbers 2, 6, 8, 4, and that we assume that in the absence of this disturbing cause the numbers wbuld exhibit invariably the value of i. The series, when thus disturbed, would be 3, 7, 9, 5, 1, 1, 1, 1, &c., and the Successive Means will be 3, 5, 6-J* 6, 5, 44, 3^ 34, 34, 3, &c. The latter diminish regularly from the number 6J, so as to approximate to the radical value 1; and the further we proceed the more gradual does this approximation become. At the ninth day the Mean is about 3d; at the tenth it has sunk to 3 (and con- sequently only differs from the radical value by 2); at the twentieth day it has reached 2; at the thirtieth, 4; at the fiftieth, \; at the one-hundretli, f, and so on. Hence, the disturbing agency, when of a serious character, will not cease to appear in the Mean till late in its course, unless other causes of disturbance intervene which operate in an opposite direction to it. Whence we learn that if the numbers in a series of Successive Means either increase or decrease very slowly, so as at length almost to remain stationary, this cannot be entirely taken as a proof of a complete equalisa- tion of the disturbing agencies. In the case above mentioned, for instance, the influence of the disturbing agency is still evident in the Mean at the tenth day, although it has lasted for four days. If it should happen that numerous disturbing causes should come into operation during the period of observation, and if this latter should be short, it may just as easily happen that they operate in one 14