LARYNGOSCOPE. 66 the contrary, the superior vocal cord was transformed into a cushion covered with rough prominences, which overlapped the inferior vocal cord, and considerably constricted the respiratory glottis; it formed a hernia, as it were, above the aryteno- epiglottic ligaments, which it bound- ed (see Tig. 24). This abnormal mass was of a dark colour, and pre- sented at its posterior extremity an ulcerated spot of the size of a lentil. Fig. 24. Transformation of the right (supe- COV ei’ed with dirty pUS. In other rior) false vocal cord into a hard, rough, aspects, it Was of Solid COnsis- and ulcerated mass. x tence; of this I was convinced by an examination made with a probe, sufficiently long, and suitably curved, laid upon the tumour by the aid of the laryngoscope. It would have been easy in this case, according to the plan of Middeldorpf, to cut off some particles, or to destroy the whole mass, in operating with the galvanic cautery. Case 14.—Cauliflower excrescences upon the posterior wall of the pharynx, covering and obstructing the larynx. B. F—>, aged 14 years, being examined with the laryngoscope, on the 26th of June, presented a cauliflower excrescence, the size of a pea, situated upon the posterior wall of the pharynx, and which covered and almost completely obstructed the entrance into the larynx. The base of the tongue, and the space situated between it and the epiglottis, were covered by a large number of smaller excrescences. On the 5th of July, Professor Balassa destroyed the pedunculated excrescence, and a portion of the others, by means of the galvanic cautery, which permitted the larynx and epiglottis to be seen quite free. The edge of the epiglottis was immoveable, and stretched transversely above the larynx; it exhibited some slight excrescences, whilst the interior of the larynx was normal, Case 15.—Minute condylomata upon the edges of the glottis, producing hoarseness and aphonia. J. B—, a young man, a clerk, was affected with a chancre in 1855; in October, 1858, a hoarseness became developed by degrees, which