COLD IN SURGERY. 311 that the affected knee was still larger than the healthy one. The power of motion was almost completely restored, and the patient, at the end of the sixteenth week, left the hospital perfectly cured. As 1 have already had occasion to mention, the cooling treatment is very efficacious in the different forms of inflammation of the ver- tebral column, for which diseases we have otherwise so few efficient remedies. It is self-evident, of course, that in these cases also absolute rest is the first condition of cure. The patient must lie in bed, on his back or on his belly, till every trace of inflammation has disappeared. I do not deny that cases have been cured by simply carrying out this part of the treatment, especially when the patient has happened to be in favorable circumstances—has had strength- ening diet and plenty of healthy, fresh air. It is still pretty generally the custom to apply to such cases in the neighbourhood of the affected part setons, issues, or the actual cautery. I do not venture to give a positive opinion as to the efficacy of these applications; but it seems to me, at all events, questionable if in scrofulous and weakened subjects it is advisable to establish suppurating surfaces, as it is well known that in such subjects the formation of an abscess is not unfrequently followed by the outbreak of many others in different parts. Some time ago I used myself to treat patients suffering from this kind of disease by the above-named powerful counter-irritants and derivatives, but lately I have entirely given up this mode of treatment. Perhaps the chief way in which these remedies act beneficially is that those parts w hich have a suppu- rating and tender surface over them are involuntarily kept somewhat more quiet than they otherwise would be. Be this, however, as it may, of one thing I have thoroughly convinced myself, namely, that the inflammatory affections of the vertebral column are much more rapidly cured under the treatment by cold than under any other. I will relate the following cases as examples. Case io.—Inflammation of the cervical vertebrae j application of ice during six weehs.—H. T—, a merchant's apprentice, whose cervical glands had been from childhood hard, swollen, and suppurating, got, in consequence of a cold, a very painful inflammation of the cervical vertebrae. This inflammation made rapid progress, in spite of the use of leeches, of iodine ointment and of cod-liver oil; the patient, therefore, came to our hospital. His head was then bent forward to 20