ATROPHY OF THE 148 attended to it, or to have only superficially compared its form on both sides. Tour times it is stated that this part was in the normal condition.1 In Weber's and Romberg's cases,2 as well as in mine, the pons varolii was evidently thinner and atrophied on one side; in Romberg's case and in mine, on the atrophied side of the brain, which accords with the greater thinness of the crus cerebri. In Weber's case it is, singularly enough, stated that, while the right hemisphere of the brain was smaller, the left crus and the left side of the pons were atrophied.3 In a few instances mention is also made of the corpus mamillare; in Cruveilhier's case,4 in Romberg's,5 and in mine, it was smaller on the atrophied side; in Weber's, on the contrary, it was larger.6 The several writers seem to have paid equally little attention to the state of the corpora pyramidalia, the corpora olivaria, and the medulla; in general, no mention is made of these parts, while it is tolerably evident, from the description, that sufficient attention has not been given to them. In a case by Thiaudiere it is said that both bodies were atrophied on the affected side.7 In Romberg's case the corpus olivare was thicker on the atrophied than on the opposite side.8 Perhaps this is true also of Weber's case.9 In my case the 1 Lallemand, 1. c., obs. 27, 35, 44, 46. 2 Romberg, ‘Lehrbuch,’ 3 Beob., 1. c., p. 822. 3 Weber, in the ‘Acta’ of Bonn, 1. c., pp. 114 and 117. On the whole, such confusion prevails in Weber’s description between the state of the right and left side that it is difficult to draw a conclusion from it. Thus, for example, at page 117 it is said that the corpora pyramidale, olivare, and restiforme of the right side are larger, while, at the following page, in the table of separate mea- surements, the left corpus olivare occurs as the larger. The coexistence of atrophy of the left crus cerebri (l. c., page 114) with atrophy of the right hemisphere of the brain seems very strange to me; in the drawing (pi. xi, fig. 1) the right hemisphere of the brain appears rather larger; in the plates of the skull (pi. xii and xiii) it is seen, on the contrary, that the left side was larger. In a case by Carswell atrophy of one side of the pons varolii also occurs, together with atrophy of the crus cerebri, corpus olivare, and corpus pyramidale (see ‘Path, anat.,’ fasc. x; ‘Atrophy,’ pi. iv, fig. 2). But this case appears not to be one of the so-called congenital atrophy, for which reason I have not enume- rated it with the foregoing. 4 ‘ Anat. Path.,’ livr. viii, pi. v, fig. 2. 5 Romberg, 1. c., p. 822. 6 Weber, 1. c., tab. xi, fig. 1 e. 7 Lallemand, 1. c., obs. 37. 8 Romberg, 1. c., p. 822. 9 See note 3 above.