ON THE USE OF 306 cold. When it became painful, and its motions interfered with, a domestic remedy, “something to rub in,” was probably employed. If the patient sought the advice of a medical man he was also pro- bably ordered a “something to rub in,” or, at the utmost, some leeches or the cupping-glasses were applied, and all the while during the treatment he was allowed to move his limb. If, as might have hap- pened, the medical man required the patient to keep his limb for a considerable time at absolute rest, or, what would be still more trying, not to leave his bed, the patient probably soon left him for another doctor, who, in his turn, prescribed “ something to rub in;” or he went, perhaps, to a bone-setter, who stretched the diseased joint violently; or consulted even aliomoeopathist, who gave him nothing but globules. In this way, after all forms of quackery have been tried, the patient is at last compelled to come to the hospital for relief from his obstinate and uncontrollable affection. If, in consequence of such mismanagement, patients have suffered continuous pain, have passed many sleepless nights, and, moreover, have lived in damp, ill-ventilated rooms, we need not wonder at their becoming very weak and presenting distinct symptoms of scrofula. In the treatment of no other surgical disease, perhaps, is the prin- ciple “ principiis obsta” of such importance as in that of joint-affec- tions. In all recent cases, whether they have arisen in consequence of contusion or laceration, or have been caused by rheumatism, whether the joint be filled with extravasated blood, serum, or pus, it will be always found that the treatment by ice, if judiciously applied, will give certain and rapid relief. It is, of course, necessary that, during the whole process of cure, the limb be kept in absolute rest, and therefore it should be placed and fixed on an apparatus which will answer this purpose. The patient also, as a rule, should remain in bed, but we must be careful that lie gets fresh air to breathe and wholesome and nourishing food to eat. In cases of slight disease I simply apply cold locally, in more severe cases I pro- mote the effect of this remedy by local bleeding. I only order gene- ral bleeding in the most severe cases of traumatic inflammation and in strong subjects. If the inflammation does not disperse, but becomes chronic, I give mercury internally, and where the bones are especially affected make use of iodide of potassium. So soon as, under this kind of treatment, the inflammatory symptoms have disappeared, the abstraction of heat generally begins to get disagreeable to the patient. I then discontinue the ice, and apply for some little time