LARYNGOSCOPE. 46 The two articulations of the elbow became immoveable in the course of the summer of the same year; but this symptom soon disappeared from the use of the mud baths of Buda, &c. The catamenia made their first appearance in the sixteenth year; they have continued since, although always scanty, and often irregular. With this appearance, the whole organism has assumed a most favorable and rapid development; nevertheless, the constitutional disease was not extinct, for in the course of the spring of 1858, the submaxillary glands all of a sudden became considerably enlarged, without any appreciable cause, and in the month of March they became developed into a series of scrofulous sores. The larynx commenced to swell in the month of April; we could perceive its outline prominent, and there was but little tenderness on pressure. We observed neither redness nor swelling of the pharynx; there was no fever; the voice, habitually weak, was in a whisper. The swelling of the larynx was much diminished during the following month, and this organ become insensible to pressure, assumed its natural position and size. Nevertheless, the hoarse- ness did not disappear, but by degrees was transformed into aphonia. In the month of September, the patient commenced to suffer from difficulty of breathing; both inspiration and expiration be- came sonorous, to such a degree that, during the night, it was transformed into loud snoring, which interfered with the sleep of her friends. From the 24th September, the dyspnoea was so violent, that the state of the patient became critical. The larynx was now painful on pressure; sleep was impossible in consequence of the oppression; every motion interfered with the regularity of the breathing, and caused anxiety. O11 the evening of the 4th October, it brought on a suffocative attack of extreme violence ; this continued until three o'clock in the morning, and confirmed Dr. Porges in the opinion which he had entertained for some time, of the absolute necessity of performing laryngotomy. In spite of the opposition of certain physicians called in consul- tation, the Doctor insisted upon its performance, which at last was done, on the 5th October, 1858, by Professor Balassa; the patient was almost asphyxiated upon her seat, and it was necessary to employ artificial respiration to keep her alive.