ON THE USE OF 286 matory process so effectually, from so many sides, as with, the local abstraction of heat uninterruptedly extended over a sufficiently long period. This object, however, may be practically effected in many different ways. It is therefore necessary, first, to examine the several modes by which local abstraction of heat may be obtained, and to estimate them according to their respective values. The following are the chief modes of applying cold which come under our notice in medical practice: compresses, immersions, affusions, and bladders or bags of ice. It is by means of the latter only that we are enabled to apply cold exclusively. In the former modes the effects of moisture of the water are always superadded. We have, therefore, to distinguish between wet and dry cold. The most familiar of all methods, but, at the same time, the one least to the purpose and the most uncertain, is the application of cold compresses. One can produce by them a continued abstraction of heat, but very often the opposite is effected. If they are not very often changed, the inner surface of the wet compresses will very soon acquire the temperature of the inflamed part, and in this way the ordinary escape of heat will be prevented, and the inflammatory increase of temperature augmented, instead of lessened. With the application of every fresh compress temporary abstraction of heat takes place, but the constant change from heat to cold will give rise to irritation, which, in some forms of disease, may act bene- ficially, but very often augments the inflammation instead of re- ducing it. If very cold compresses be used, such, for instance, as are made cold by ice, and if these be very often exchanged, the temperature of the part may be continuously diminished; but even then the constant touching and disturbing of the inflamed part by unpractised hands would very often cause a hurtful irritation, which would out- balance the good effects of the abstraction of heat. Moreover, in applying these cold compresses, the clothes and bed-linen of the patient often get damp or wetted through, and it is in this way that those bad effects are produced which the adversaries of cold generally enumerate, and which originate simply in giving cold un- intentionally to healthy portions of the skin. Besides, a mistake is here not unfrequently made which may be followed by the worst consequences—I allude to the application of cold compresses on the dry bandages with which wounded, broken, or inflamed parts have previously been dressed. I have seen several cases in which