THROMBOSIS OF THE 126 2. Local causes which retard the circulation in the sinuses are— a. Pressure upon the sinus itself by tumours and enlarged Pacchi- onian glands. b. Pressure upon the large veins of the neck by tumours, in conse- quence of which coagulation occurs first in them, and by extension of the thrombus, also in the sinuses. (This comes, properly speaking, under A). c. Intrusion of foreign bodies and tumours into the sinus, which diminish its calibre; here contact of the blood with the foreign body must be taken into account as favouring coagulation. II. Of disease of the walls of the sinus, from altered molecular attraction between the diseased walls and the blood, especially in inflammatory processes in the former (?). After the foregoing paper was concluded, I noticed in No. i of the ( Oesterreich Zeitschrift fiir practische Heijkunde, 1859/ a case of thrombosis of the sinuses, communicated by Professor Pitha, which I cannot refrain from appending here, because it confirms in many respects the views advanced by me in that paper. A hussar, set. 26, received four sabre wounds on the head in a brawl. On receiving the last lie fell, bleeding profusely, and was carried away unconscious. All the wounds were on the left side of the head, one on the frontal bone, one on the left parietal, one near the occipital protuberance, and one behind the left ear, running obliquely downwards and backwards over the mastoid process. The wounds on the frontal bone and mastoid process reached the bone in places. No fracture could be detected. There was great anaemia; pulse weak, 60. Partial somnolence and apathy, which disappeared after two days. The pulse sank to 48 and 45, while the patient's general condition was favorable, and the wounds healing, and sup- purating slightly and healthily at those points only where the bone had been injured. On the 12th day, however, a thin greenish-yellow deposit was observed upon them, which disappeared in three days, after the application of nitrate of silver. During the night of the 27th day, severe pain came on in the left ear, with increase of tempera- ture, and painful swelling of the glands in the neck; pulse 88. On the following day, sputa tinged with blood, and crepitation in left lung; wounds suppurating moderately, that behind the ear rather more copiously, and the sound shows a rough spot on the mastoid