39 PHYSIOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS, erroneously called respiratory glottis. If fig. 6 is compared with fig. 5, it will be observed that all the parts are relaxed; their longi- tudinal and transverse diameters seem to be increased. We distinctly perceive, however, that the aryteno-epiglottic ligaments are the pro- longations of the fold of mucous membrane which encloses the arytenoid cartilages, and wrhich is continued up to the lateral borders of the epiglottis. Upon the whole we may here observe, that the larynx is sur- mounted by a circular fold of the mucous membrane, which is sup- ported by seven cartilages—the epiglottis, the double cartilages of Wrisberg, of Santorini, and the arytenoid—and which form a short tube obliquely shortened from above downwards, and from before backwards, projecting into the pharynx, and of which the free border possesses a special conformation. In fact, in myself, there can be distinguished the following pecu- liarities : in front, about the middle, a part sustained by the free border of the epiglottis, clearly defined, and concave behind, which loses itself below and behind in the two aryteno-epiglottic liga- ments. At the posterior extremity of these last, there exists a small tubercle, which is sustained by the superior extremity of the cartilage of Wrisberg. This tubercle is succeeded by a rounded swelling, a little stronger. But this swelling, in the same manner as the whole of the border of the mucous membrane, undergoes numerous varia- tions in different individuals. In fine, behind these swellings we perceive the tubercles bound together by the middle and posterior portion of the mucous membrane, and which correspond to the cartilages of Sartorini (fig. 6). In quiet, deep respiration, the glottis, which has momentarily the form of a lozenge, or is divided into an anterior and a posterior part by the projection of the arytenoid processes, assumes the form of a large oblong opening (Plate II, fig. 7). When wTe continue to breathe tranquilly, these parts do not change their position. The glottis is so enlarged, that I could pass a finger right into the trachea. The ordinary anatomical division of the glottis into respiratory and vocal can only be admitted for the designation of the two physiological conditions of respiration and phonation; and wTe can, as anatomists, speak only of one inter- cartilaginous glottis, and of another intermembranaceous.1 1 This opinion perfectly accords with the results obtained by the physiological researches of M. Longet, who for some time has called these two portions