ARITHMETIC MEANS. 253 lute rules. By far the most important circumstance in reference to the criticism of these “ intrinsic ” reasons, in opposition to the im- portance of the purely formal criticism of the numerical results of investigation, is the one that the former are not amenable to nume- rical expression. We can at the most attain only to an incidental appreciation of their importance from their number, and the value which we affix to each of them individually. Let us now examine some of their most important mutual relations. In the first place, then, with a formally accurate result, such as will stand the severe test of the calculus of probabilities, are associated a number of reasons that are both relevant and free from the instigation of prejudice. These latter may (though they do not necessarily) in- crease the certainty of the conclusion, i. e. the limit of error may be narrower than the mathematical theory, based upon the number of the individual observations and the criticism of the ultimate Mean obtained, requires. In the second place, a numerical result that is formally deficient may be, to a certain extent, propped up, and, within certain limits corroborated, by means of intrinsic reasons; i. e. the expert may have grounds, under certain circumstances, to accept a result which an investigator, who proceeded upon simply theoretical and mathematical considerations, -would be obliged to reject. And, thirdly, a formally accurate numerical result may be not, on that account, a whit the less incorrect (how often has this occurred in the experimental sciences!), and may, under certain circumstances, be at once recognised as false by the expert, on intrinsic grounds alone. In this last case, I, of course, assume that the mere mechanism of investigation is irreproachable. The foregoing remarks can involve me in no charge of miscon- ception ; least of all, that I ignore the importance of the calculus of probabilities, whose leading principles and special applications to medicine I expressly explain each year to my class. Even in the comparatively simple questions which we address to the organism I am in the habit of demanding the widest possible basis of facts for must proceed from a definite numerically expressed probability. Thus, for example, Poisson bases his formulae, upon a probability of (in round numbers) 200 to i. The beginner who has not, as yet, reflected upon the theoretical and practical importance of the definition of certainty and probability, need not be surprised at this: such a probability may almost be assumed as a certainty in the case of most medical questions. What credit should we not give a man if he were only to make one false prognosis in 200 cases of typhus fever!