42 LARYNGOSCOPE. loci illigatur per membranea qusedam producta vincula, quee supra arytsenoidum glandulas, quas in anatomem invexit solertissimus Morgagnus, perque nostra earumdem arytsenoidum capitula oblique inferius deducuntur.” Tlie sketch given by Sontorini1 represents the interior of the larynx, seen from above, and is remarkable for its correctness and perfect resemblance to illustrations taken from the living (Plate II, figs. 5 and 6). We shall now occupy ourselves with the process of complete closure of the larynx. In order clearly to observe the manner in which the various parts of the larynx behave themselves in the act of closure, I took as a point of departure the disposition which allows of the most enlarged view of its interior (Plate II, fig. 6); I have subsequently produced closure by an effort. We can thus study with facility the proceeding in its most simple and pure form. In this manner, during complete and hermetic closure, I have observed the following arrangement: ist. The arytenoid cartilages intimately meet at their internal surfaces and processes, and they bring the edges of the vocal cords in contact. 2d. The superior vocal cords approach the inferior vocal cords, so as to obliterate the ventricles of Morgagni; at the same time they also meet in the median line. 3d. The epiglottis being lowered, and its cushion become more prominent still, it presses against the closed glottis; the contact takes place from before backwards. All these changes occur with such rapidity, that great attention is necessary to examine them in detail. Pig. 9, of Plate II, represents the beginning of the hermetic closure. The cushion (e, w) already applied over a considerable portion of the closed glottis and of the narrowed false glottis; a very slender furrow alone indicates the ventricles of Morgagni. The closure is complete in fig. 10. The cushion of the epiglottis reaches up to the fold of mucous membrane which encloses the arytenoid cartilages. A considerable portion of the epiglottis freely overlaps the larynx. I11 our illustration this portion of the epiglottis is 1 ‘Anatomici sunomi Septemdecim Tabulae,’ ed. M. Girardi. (Parme, 1775» pi. vi, fig. 2).