THE IMPORTANCE OF 264 was placed were unchanged. Under such circumstances as these, a physiologist will place no reliance upon small differences between the Means, nor will the mathematical determination of the uncer- tainty restrain him from coming to a conclusion, although the difference between the Means of two series may be less than that uncertainty. For these reasons, therefore, it appears to me unjusti- fiable to eliminate numbers that differ considerably from one another, as Badicke does, for no other reason than because of special disturb- ances ; for, in the first place, such numbers bear a certain relation to those which immediately follow them, and these latter without them lose their real value; and in the second, every physiologist will know' how to estimate an unusual disturbance, and to value accord- ingly the numbers which it gives. If the disturbance is so great that the results of the investigation are of necessity affected by it, then it is not only the day on which it occurs, but also the whole series which is unavailable. The relations in question are in no wray affected by the protraction of the series of observations. I may even, on the other hand, assert that by so doing the uncertainty becomes greater, since experience has at least taught me this, that even if the long-continued and unre- stricted pursuance of a monotonous series of researches and mode of life does not absolutely disable the organism, it may, and practically does, alter its normal conditions. If a man pursues an investigation on the operation of any given agency upon the metamorphosis of tissue for six or eight days, and then calculates the mean value, that mean value will, as Professor Badicke has clearly exemplified, be always altered if to those six or eight days one or two more are added. How, then, are we to attain a certainty in respect of the probable value of the numbers of which we are in search ? It appears to me that such certainty as the result of any one single investigation is impossible, and that neither the length of time during which the investigation is carried on, nor the mathematical determination of the mean values, uncertainties, &c., can give it. There is only one v7ay of attaining to it, and this, so far as my experience goes, con- sists in repeating the observations as frequently as possible on dif- ferent individuals. All mean values obtained from a single series of observations on one individual, however long it may be, have a cer- tain amount of doubt about them, whether the difference between two given series exceeds the uncertainty or not. The individual organism ahvays exists under varying external and general influences;