ARITHMETIC MEANS. 193 minished the excretion of urine? Obviously not; for it will be readily seen that if we were to stop at the eighth day in both series, the Means would then be respectively 1554 and 1494, anc^we thence, with equal justice, conclude that the urine had been increased by the Sarsaparilla. The difficulty involved by so doing is not re- moved by assuming that the data of twelve observations are more certain than those of eight, for it might easily happen that the thirteenth altered the relations of the two once more. In fact, if the thirteenth day in both series were to exhibit the same quantities as. the twelfth—which would be certainly not at all impossible—-the Means would then be respectively 1545 and 1315, and would con- sequently once more indicate an augmentation of the urine. Where, then, are we to seek for the error of such an inference ? If the quantityof urine excreted depended solely upon the nutritive or medicinal agents ingested, the series of observations would, on the supposition that the ingested matters were daily equal, necessarily give numbers which would be uniform, with the exception of unim- portant differences that might be attributed to imperfections of measurement. Practically, however, this is never the case, even in in- vestigations where the greatest trouble has been taken to ensure equality in the measurements p and so far as the case under con- sideration is concerned the irregular and excessive inequalities in the numbers obtained stand in no sort of relation to those of the quantities of food consumed. Other influences, therefore, must operate upon the amount of the urinary excretion. Amongst those which affect the metamorphosis of tissue, we may enumerate, with mere or less probability, atmospheric agencies (the temperature, moisture, and pressure of the air); bodily or mental occupations; idiosyneracies; the frequent and sometimes rapid fluctuations in the weight of the body, &c. Consequently, when the first eight numbers of series a give a greater Mean, and the whole twelve numbers a smaller one, than the corresponding number of series b, the inference obviously is, that the sum of all the influences which affected the metamorphosis of tissue during the first eight days of the series a (amongst which, in addition to those referred to above, there wrere probably many others, and possibly that of the Sarsaparilla), exceeded the sum of 1 See amongst other papers, that of Boecker, entitled “ Investigations on the Action of Water,” ‘Nova Acta Academ. Caes. Leopold. Carol. Nat. Cur./ vol, xxiv, part 1, .