THROMBOSIS OF THE 104 Although in this case the new growth in the petrous bone had probably produced a simultaneous caries of that bone, as Lebert1 also assumes, it is certain that the narrowing of the channel by the tumour, and the contact of the blood with it, contributed to the production of the thrombus. Case 34.—Paletta2 gives an observation, also met with in Stannius, according to which the superior longitudinal sinus was so compressed by ulcerating tubercles (?) that its calibre, to the extent of three fingers' breadth, was entirely impermeable. Forster3 4 states that in a case of perforation of the sinuses from enlargement of the Pacchionian glands thrombosis existed in them, a phenomenon which Virchow/ however, has not observed. Case 35.5—A soldier, set. 18, was wounded in the left temporal bone by a hand-grenade. After he had been trephined feverish pysemic symptoms, with cough, presented themselves. There was delirium, and death occurred on the twenty-first day. Sectio.—O11 opening the skull it was found that a splinter of the vitreous plate half an inch long, had penetrated the superior longi- tudinal sinus. In the sinus was found puriform and polypous clot, of an atheromatous character, a portion of which obstructed the opening into the horizontal sinus. There were also pus beneath the pericranium, purulent arachnitis, and extravasation of blood upon the inner surface of the temporal bone. In this case we might assume either a haemorrhagic thrombosis, whether originating at the seat of injury in the bone or at the wound produced by the operation, or a caries of the bones of the skull, as the starting-point of the affection of the sinus; but the penetration of the splinter into the sinus is so manifest an origin of the coagulation of the blood that it is unnecessary to seek for any more remote one. The narrowing of the channel, on the one hand, and the contact with the foreign body on the other, may both have 1 Loc. citat., 421. 2 ‘Exercitat. Patbolog. Mediol./ 1820, p. 94. Stannius, loc. citat., 36. 3 ‘Handbuch der Spec. Pathol. Anat.,’ 616. 4 ‘Handb. d. Spec. Pathol./ i, 164. 6 Scbmucker, loc. citat., i, 85.