30 7 COLD IN SURGERY. mild local irritants,, as, for instance, a concentrated solution of nitrate of silver, or something of the kind. After this 1 put on a firm bandage of starch or plaster of Paris, and this I make the patient wear for about six or eight weeks, till the joint has recovered its nor- mal state. In those chronic cases where there is neither pain nor an abnormal degree of temperature, but only an indolent swelling (tumor albus), continuous abstraction of heat is generally of no use. It is in these cases, above all, that firm bandages are efficacious, espe- cially the plaster-of-Paris bandage and the so-called Scott's bandage (the joint having been previously covered with mercurial ointment). Further, in addition to general strengthening treatment, sea-bathing is to be recommended, in which case, of course, the bandage must admit of being taken off by the patient during the bath. Where the process has proceeded so far as to have destroyed the articular cartilages and the ends of the bones, we shall, generally, be unable to effect any favorable result with this kind of treatment, however judiciously and perseveringly we may apply it. The only means we then have to save the life of the patient is amputation of the limb, or resection of the joint. But even in these latter cases I have several times, by continuous abstraction of heat, effected very unexpected results, of which I will relate some examples. In confirmation of the statements I have made above I select, from many cases, the following. Case 5.—Traumatic inflammation of the knee-joint after a per- forating wound of the joint; application of ice for four weeks.— H. S—, a powerful, working man, set. 30, was taken into the hospital in consequence of a perforating wound of the left knee- joint, which he had inflicted upon himself accidentally in the morning by means of a hatchet. The wound was at the inner side of the patella, and was one inch long. By pressing the patella the synovia could be made to ooze out. The edges of the wound were well united with sutures, the leg was placed carefully on Keister's splint, and two bags of ice were applied to the joint. In the afternoon intense inflammation of the joint set in, with violent pain. In spite of the ice, the skin of the part became hot and red, and the interior of the joint filled with fluid exudation. The pulse was full and hard. Twelve ounces of blood were taken from the patient, and half a grain of morphia was ordered. The intensity of the pain diminished, but not the swelling. During the following few days, ice being