153 LETT HEMISPHERE OP THE BRAIN. We should compare it, on the contrary, with the degree of loss which the one half of the brain had undergone, and not with the greater or less degree of paralysis which may exist without impair- ment of the mental powers; as the cause of the paralysis is situated in other parts, which cannot be said to be the direct instruments of our higher faculties. Thus, in Andrabs case, there was complete paralysis of the arm, with stiffness of the leg, which did not once occur in all the cases where idiocy existed, as in that described by me. Therefore Lallemand's assertion, that the impairment of the mental powers in these cases is in proportion to the degree of para- lysis, is incorrect. Everything, in my opinion, depends upon the more or less healthy state of one hemisphere of the brain. If, as from the nature of the case seldom occurs, the inflammation and affection of the pia mater has not extended to this hemisphere, if the gray matter under the cerebral convolutions has here continued perfectly sound, there is no reason why this remaining hemisphere should not be able to act without impediment in the exercise of those functions which are neces- sary to our mental powers, just as one eye sees as sharply though the other be lost. But where the gray matter is injured in both hemi- spheres, particularly anteriorly, disturbance of the intellectual facul- ties will be inevitable. I myself possess in my collection one hemi- sphere of the brain of a man, aged seventy-two, which is extensively destroyed by softening superiorly and anteriorly, in consequence of chronic inflammation proceeding from the corpus striatum; and, in this case, although there was complete paralysis of the entire of one side of the body, the intellectual faculties were quite unimpaired up to the moment of death; the patient even assured me, shortly before his decease, that he never had had any feeling of headache. But in this instance the meningitis had not extended over the other hemi- sphere, and had thus excited no disturbance, while the part that was destroyed could not act, and was therefore incapable of giving rise to any confusion. In fact, we cannot apply the measurement of rule and compass to the" exercise of the mental powers, and that parts of the brain may be lost without impairment of these powers is a fami- liar fact.1 1 A remarkable case, where there was probably atrophy of one half of the brain, is communicated by Wigan in Porbes Winslow’s * Journal of Psychological Medicine.* (See Damerow’s ‘Allgem. Zeitschrift fur Psychiatrie,’ Berlin, 1851, 8 B., 2 H., p. 279.) A boy, aged fifteen, had an inequality of the skull, as if the