222 THE IMPORTANCE OF that any succeeding numbers might not have entirely inverted these relations. Indeed, if we want a striking proof of the unreliability of the author's conclusion, all that we have to do is to take the fol- lowing seven days' series of investigations on the action of sea- bathing. The urinary quantities in this series are as follows : 1624. 1561. 1402. 1362. 959. 1198. 927. If Beneke in this case had contented himself with four days' observations, the mean would have been 1487. By an application of the same ready reasoning he would have concluded a considerable increase to have occurred. But the three following days depress the Mean to 1290, and the conclusion at which he actually arrives at the end of the seventh day is that bathing has diminished the secretion. This diminution he attributes to increased cutaneous transpira- tion ; but if this explanation is to pass muster, we must assume that in the first four days, which offer so contradictory a result, the cuta- neous transpiration was not only unusually small, but considerably less than in the last three days, for which the concomitant circum- stances of the case offer no justification at all. The author shows the relation of the amount of urine to the sum of the fluids daily ingested, and for that purpose adds together without any distinction all the liquids drunk, such as water, coffee, milk, wine, &c. It might possibly be thought that the very low numbers in the last half of the above seven days' investigation depended upon an excep- tionally small quantity of drink taken; but this is not the case, for on the days on which the urine was smallest we find very con- siderable fluid ingesta; and we therefore see that series of four, or even seven days of the author's manner of living admit of no con- clusion at all being drawn from them with regard to the general amount of the secretion. It would be quite superfluous to examine the remaining investi- gations for further confirmation of this opinion on the author's con- clusions. It is only necessary to add that the Means of the series of five days in January, the fourteen days in February, and the eight days in August, are respectively 1226, 1433, and 1440, and that, so far as the last two numbers are concerned, the result of February's observations in Oldenburg entirely corresponds with that of the second of them. The observations themselves, therefore, negative Beneke's con-