BIBLIOGRAPHY. physiological observations made by the aid of the laryngoscope, the details of which were illustrated by drawings. The impulse which I had thus given to the subject has not remained fruitless, as is proved by the labours of others in 1858 and 1859, recorded in various scientific journals. BIBLIOGRAPHY. 1858. 1. Czermak.—On the laryngeal mirror (Gazette hebdomadaire de Vienne, No. 13, March 27th). 2. Czermak.—On the laryngeal mirror of Garcia (Gazette hebdomadaire de Vienne, No. 16, April 17 th). 3. Czermak.—Physiological Researches with the laryngeal mirror of Garcia, with 3 plates (Comptes rendus des seances de VAcademie imper. de Vienne, vol. xxix, No. 557, April 29th). 4. Semeleder.—On the employment of the laryngeal mirror in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases of the tongue, communicated at the sitting of physicians of Yienna, May 28th (Zeitschrift der GeseUschaft der Aerzte zu Wien, No. 28). Turck.—On the laryngeal mirror and its mode of employment, with engravings on wood (Zeitschrift der GeseUschaft der Aerzte zu Wien, No. 26, June 28th; Gazette hebdomadaire de Paris, February 4th, 1859). 6. Dr. Neudoerfer proposes, in describing a new canula for laryngotomv, to explore the larynx and trachea by the aid of a speculum introduced through the wound (Zeitschr. far pract. Heilkunde, Wien, No. 46, November 12 th). 7. Stoerk.—On the value of the laryngo-pharyngeal mirror. Note of two pathological cases (Zeitschrift der GeseUschaft der Aerzte zu Wien, No. 51, December 20th). 1859. 8. Czermak.—Communication relative to the surprising discovery of a small polypus situated upon the right vocal cord, in an individual affected with hoarseness, said to be “nervous” (Gazette hebdomadaire de Vienne, No. 2, January 8th). physiology and pathology, especially when the dispute between you and him occurred. “ At the same time I stated to him, in a friendly, but perfectly distinct manner, my candid opinion about the entire proceedings. “ Yours, (Signed) “ E. Bruecke. “Vienna, Oct. 18th, i860.”