ARITHMETIC MEANS. 223 elusion, if in comparing them we refer to the earlier ones. If, how- ever, it is considered impossible to compare them with one another in consequence of their having been undertaken at so widely distant periods, and at different seasons of the year, it seems quite super- fluous to have undertaken them at all. Before proceeding to the consideration of the individual elements of the urine, let us note, with the view of throwing some preliminary light upon the inequalities that occur, that Beneke observed no kind of uniform dietary during his observations. He neither took, on the several days, food in equal quantities or of a uniform character, but as chance directed, or his appetite suggested, at the same time assuming that any compulsion or restraint on his appetite would have caused greater disturbances than the irregularities which were occasioned by the demands of nature. But even allowing that he was to a certain extent justified in this respect, his manner of living whilst at Wangeroge was too different from that at Oldenburg to have been without influence. Whilst there, in consequence of a more vigorous appetite, he made a fuller dinner, took a supple- mentary breakfast, and, above all, drank more wine. The conse- quence of this must have been infallibly a more active metamor- phosis of tissue, which, in fact, the author does not deny. But he attributes his increased appetite to residence in the sea air and sea- bathing, so as to be able to ascribe the variations in the metamor- phosis of tissue to the same conditions. Why may not the more frequent and unrestricted exercise in the open air, as well as the stimulus of greater social intercourse, have been the causes ? That these elements did not produce the effects in question remains to be proved. The pith of Beneke's investigations, however, consists in “ the peculiar relations” which he asserts that he found in the ele- ments of the mine, and which he considers to be the “ specific ” effect of the sea air and bathing. Only, in the first place, the proof that exposure to the open air inland, under similar conditions, would not have produced the same peculiarities is deficient; and, in the second, his observations, as we shall directly see, in no way bear out the presence of the peculiar conditions to which he refers. We will commence with testing the results obtained on the subject of urea. What first imports in reference to the series of observa- tions which were intended to determine the effects of the sea air is, that they allow us to draw no conclusion whatever from them, since they are only four in number; and I will give here the numbers