ATROPHY OF THE 146 twenty-nine cases of unilateral atrophy seventeen instances where the lesion existed on the left side of the brain. Almost always the entire hemisphere of the cerebrum was more or less atrophied; in some cases the anterior lobe was particularly wasted,1 in others the mid- dle,2 or the posterior,3 was more affected; in a few cases no softening, but rather hardening, coexisted with the atrophy.4 Simultaneous atrophy of one hemisphere of the cerebellum appears to be very rare; among these twenty-nine cases it occurred only seven times—five times on the opposite, and twice on the same side. Thiaudiere, too, once found the hemisphere of the cerebellum softened on the same side.5 It is remarkable that the coexistent atrophy of the one hemisphere of the cerebellum, whether situated on the opposite or on the same side, appears to have had no influence on the paralytic symptoms. It is usually supposed that lesions of the cerebellum almost always produce paralytic symptoms on the opposite side,6 according to Burdach, as 12 : 2/ In Weber's case, where the hemisphere of the cerebellum was much more decidedly atrophied than the right hemi- sphere of the cerebrum, there was no paralysis properly so called; in 1 Lallemand, ‘ Becherches,’ 1. c., obs. 27, 34. 2 Lallemand, 1. c., obs. 33. 3 Lallemand, 1. c., obs. 36., 4 Lallemand, 1. c., obs. 50, 61. 5 Lallemand, 1. c., obs. 33; also in Magendie, * Journal de Physiol., tome ix, p. 53, communicated by Piorry, but where no mention is made of this softening of the right hemisphere of the cerebellum. Gall, in his case, does not speak of the cerebellum. But if we look with attention at pi. liii of his great work (‘Anatom. etPhys. duSyst. nerveux’), we shall see that the opposite side of the cerebellar cavity of the cranium is diminished in size; so that it is extremely probable that in this instance, too, atrophy of the cerebellum existed on the side opposite to that of the cerebrum. Clendinning also communicates a case of a child, who died at eighteen months, of pneumonia with convulsions. Scrofulous affections were found in different places, as in the middle lobe of the cerebrum on the left side, and also on the dura mater and in the lungs, together with a remarkable formation of the cerebellum, of which the right hemisphere, conse- quently again that of the opposite side, was from one half to two thirds smaller than the left. See Schmidt, ‘ Jahrbiicher,* Supplem., Band i, p. 299. Also in the ‘London Medical Gazette,’ vol. xvi, May and June 6, 1833. Alphonse de Saint Germain describes a remarkable case of very great atrophy of one hemi- sphere of the brain, without atrophy of either side of the cerebellum, or of the medulla oblongata. ‘ Annales Medico-Psychol.,’ 1836, p. 613. 6 Longet, ‘ Traitd de Physiologic,* tome ii, p. 260. 7 Burdach, ‘Ueber das Gehirn,* B. iii, p. 370, § 802.