213 ARITHMETIC MEANS. the limits within which the 'Successive Means fluctuate commencing markedly to approach one another. In practice, however, we shall, as a rule, have to deal with the case where this condition is not ful- filled ; hence the question arises, how we ought to deal with incom- plete series. In order to answer this question it will be of use to make some preliminary observations on the course of the Successive Means in cases of this description. Tor this purpose let us first note that, in general, any disturbing agency does not exert its full influence at once, and also that with its diminution that of its operation does not concomitantly occur. Even in the case where the agency is but of short duration, we should find, if we could isolate its effect, and were to make an hourly examination of the urine, that it exhi- bited a gradual increase to a maximum, and then an equally gradual diminution. Eurther, we note that a disturbing agency may either operate all at once or may periodically repeat itself. In practice, we have little room for doubting that periodically acting influences are at work along with regular ones, since we can detect in the vital processes numerous distinct periods. It will, therefore, be desirable to consider both conditions separately, in order the more easily to appreciate their combined operation. (a) We will suppose the agencies at work are all of a periodic character, and, first, that only a single one is present, whose period, for the sake of simplicity, shall embrace a uniformly equal number of entire days, and always have the same ampli- tude, i. e. exhibit the same series of values. Let the period be, for example, one of four days, expressing itself in the num- bers i, 3, 11, 7, and producing the series 1, 3, 11, 7; 1, 3, 11, J; 1, 3, 11, 7, &c., whose successive Means are as follows : 1, 2, 5, 4?> 4b 5h 5h; 5> 4b 5-rr 5> 5b 5b &c- 11 wiU be seen that in these Means the fluctuations in each period become gradually smaller and smaller. Notwithstanding the inequality of the given numbers, already, in the second period, the fluctuations do not exceed i; in the third period they do not exceed -J; and even by the middle of the first period they exhibit a com- mencing equalisation. If the series does not break off with the end of a period, but in the middle of one, what we shall get is not the exact Mean of the period (which here = 5J), but a sensible approximation to the true value 5I, in the second period, which increases in correctness with the number of the periods. Con*