171 LEFT HEMISPHERE OF THE BRAIN. The same is true of the thickening of the cranium, although it is difficult to decide whether in this case the irritation has extended to Cord/ &c., p. 245 (vol. iv, New Sydenham Society’s publications), that all the epileptic patients who had bitten the tongue died of phthisis, pneumonia, or marasmus (which is so often confounded with phthisis, and in which the lungs probably were not in a healthy state). Engel, in his above-quoted, essay in the * Prager Vierteljahrschrift/ states that, among thirty-one cases of diseases of the brain, only in four was there no affection of the lungs or intestines ; in fourteen of these cases there was inflammation of the lungs or pleura, in nine there was oedema of the lungs. Pneumonia occurred three times on the side opposite to the apoplexy, in which cases the extravasa- tion was found on the outside of the corpus striatum and thalamus; once it occurred on the same side. In apoplexy of the base of the brain, in meningitis or hydrocephalus, the pneumonia was met with most frequently at the base and in the inferior lobes of the lungs. In inflammation of the left transverse sinus to the bulb of the jugular vein, the cerebellum being healthy, there was pleuritis of the left side, as he supposes, probably through affection of the vagus; I should rather suspect that in this case the left lateral column of the medulla had been affected and more or less paralysed, which would have been attended with in- creased immobility of the left side of the thorax. In an extremely remarkable case of spondylarthrocace of the first cervical vertebra, whereby the second was dislocated, and the odontoid process was changed into a sharp spine, compress- ing the left side of the medulla oblongata in the situation of the vagus, and producing semi-paralysis of both sides, as the pressure existed precisely on a level with the decussation, alfd thus injured some nerve-fibres which had already decussated, and some which were about to decussate, I found pleuritis and pneumonia, with little vomicae in the left lung, the inferior lobe of which was soft and dark, without crepitation on section, and was therefore paralysed. A detailed description, with a drawing of this remarkable case, will shortly see the light. The experiments of Scliiff on this subject are worthy of note. This observer found that, on section of the one half of the medulla oblongata beneath the calamus scriptorius, all the extremities, the head and ears, were warmer, in consequence of dilatation of the paralysed vessels on the injured side, but on the chest the opposite side was warmer, so that in this case the influence on the sympathetic or vaso-motor nerves was evident (M. Schiff, ‘ Untersuchungen der Physiologie des Nervensystems/ 1855, p. 207). On a former occasion Schiff found that after the division of one nervus vagus tubercles were developed in the superior lobe on the same side, and in the inferior lobe of the opposite lung, whence he infers that the two vagi are connected with one another by means of ganglionic cells in the lung, each vagus giving nerve-filaments to both lungs. (See Schiff, ‘Ueber die Lungenveranderungen nach Durchschneidung des pneumogastrischen Nerven/ in Rose und Wunderlich’s ‘Arch. f. phys. Heilk./ 1847, 6 Jahrgang, pp. 769 et seq.) Brown-Sequard, in his important essays, “ Recherches sur la physiol., &c., de la protuberance annulaire,” in the 4 Journal de Physiologie/ communicates four cases of diseases of the protube- rantia annularis and medulla oblongata in which diseases of the lungs were met