CEREBRAL SINUSES. 109 during childbed is also not infrequent, since the act of parturition, and the loss of blood frequently accompanying it, are1 highly debili- tating influences. It is true that, in the case mentioned above, the labour was natural; but the idea will obtrude itself, that the colossal abstractions of blood, worthy of even a Bouillaud, made on account of the peritonitis, gave the impulse to the thrombosis of the sinus, as it was shown in the earlier part of this paper that any consider- able diminution in the general quantity of the blood may lessen the rapidity of the current and give rise to coagulations in the sinuses. There were, indeed, thrombi in the uterine veins, but these could not well be brought into direct relation to the formation of thrombi in the sinuses. Forster,1 who, besides weakness, regards excess of fibrin in the blood and increased coagulability as essential elements in puerperal thrombosis, appears also to have observed cases in wdiich the coagu- lation occurred secondarily as a consequence of metastatic infarcta and points of inflammation, since the stagnation in the capillaries causes coagulations in the cerebral veins which extend into the sinuses. That the present case is not one of this kind appears tolerably clear, since, with the exception of some superficial ecchymoses, which cer- tainly were rather the result than the cause of the thrombosis, no mention is made of hsemorrhagic infarcta, and metastases were nowhere observed, especially not in the lungs. With this case another I am now about to communicate appears to have affinity, although other causes also seem to have been in action. Case 44-2 A soldier received a gunshot wound of the left parietal bone, which produced fracture with depression. The symptoms which supervened rendered trephining necessary, while the patient was bled five times in a short space of time. Death on the thir- teenth day. Sectio.—Fleshy coagula were found in the left lateral sinus; smaller similar ones in the superior longitudinal and right lateral sinus. There were also fracture of the inner plate and purulent arachnitis. In this case several explanations are possible for the formation of coagula in the sinuses. The injury itself, the opera- 1 ‘Handb. d. Pathol. Anatomie,’ ii, p. 616. 2 Schmucker, loc. citat., i, p. 75.