LARYNGOSCOPE. 58 Fig. 18. loss of substance suffered by tlie velum palati; it exhibited very re- markable wasting, the result of laryngeal ulcerations which were now actually cicatrized (Fig. 18). The epiglottis bad disappeared, and there remained only but a short stump, irregularly excavated, especially on the right side. Whatever the patient swal- lowed produced a choking sensation. The right superior vocal cord was considerably thickened; its surface irregular and rough. The surface of the left superior vocal cord was likewise rough, cicatrized, and had 18' °f sul1' suffered besides a great loss of substance at its internal border. Consequently, on the left, we could perceive a large portion of the inferior vocal cord relatively normal, whilst on the right, the vocal cord was deeply excavated behind, and almost entirely covered by the false vocal cord. The other parts of the mucous membrane, especially the right aryteno- epiglottic ligament, presented considerable loss of substance and also numerous cicatrices. We could readily understand that this condition of the larynx did not admit of the formation of a regular glottis, capable of producing sounds. When the patient desired to emit a sound, the true and false vocal cords approached one another, and the air escaped with a hissing noise. Case 5.— 'Retraction of the right inferior vocal cord, with swelling of the superior vocal cord of the same side, producing loss of voice} from syphilis. F. M—, aged forty-one years, a policeman, native of Krumau, in Bohemia, has been affected for more than ten years with various forms of secondary syphilis. Previously, in 1843, ^ie patient lost his voice, and suffered very much with the larynx. The laryngoscopic examination which I undertook on the 23d of January, 1859, at the request of Professor Balassa, showed that the anterior membranous part of the right vocal cord was retracted in the form of a sickle, when the arytenoid process was turned inwards; the right false vocal cord was considerably prominent about the centre of the larynx, and almost entirely covered the inferior vocal cord. On the left side, the situation and structure of the vocal cords were normal. The cartilage of the epiglottis, which was recognised by its yellowish