.251 ARITHMETIC MEANS. NOTES ON MEDICAL STATISTICS. By PROFESSOR CARL VIERORDT, op Tubingen. I take the liberty of supplementing the preceding1 paper by a few observations. Four years ago, an able article on statistics, treated especially in a practically medical point of view, was published in this journal by Dr. Schweig; we are now favoured by Professor Radicke with a, still more valuable contribution, in which numerous theoretical questions, of primary importance, are also discussed in a way which makes them easily intelligible to the medical public. This is so much the more a subject of congratulation, since the works in this department of medical investigation (notwithstanding all that has been written on method, &c.) are not only very rare, but also (I refer here, especially, to the very valuable ‘ Principles of Medical Statistics/ published fifteen years ago, by Gavarret), unfortunately, attract very little attention, in consequence of their being so foreign in their nature to the ordinary habits of thought of the majority of medical men. The f Archives ’ has, therefore, done good service in drawing more attention to so neglected a subject. When once a conviction of the high importance of these questions (whose truly and pre-eminently fundamental character will be recognised so soon as medicine strenuously resolves not to devote herself so exclusively to the convenient path of the more descriptive methods of observing disease) infuses itself amongst the more zealous portion of the medical profession, the numerous, too often distorted, and either im- moderately laudatory or unreasonably depreciatory opinions on medical and therapeutical statistics which the public is compelled to adopt, unfortunately, through its ignorance of the principles and possible correlations of medicine and statistics, on the faith of otherwise able medical men, will come spontaneously to an end. There are three methods of employing medical statistics. The first, and that which is most generally used by practical men, arrives at its numerical results without specially indicating the magnitude 1 This paper of Professor Vierordt immediately follows that of Professor Radicke, in the ‘ Archiv fur Physiologische Heilkunde,’—Translator.