107 CEREBRAL SINUSES. several months from pleurisy, with oedema of the feet and dyspnoea, died suddenly. Seciio.—In the superior longitudinal sinus there was a coagulum of considerable size, which contained yellowish pus. The vessels of the pia mater were filled with blood. (Edema of the pia mater and effusion into the lateral ventricles. Pleuritic exudation on the left side, with contraction of the chest. At the base of the left lung a cavity containing pus (metastatic abscess ?) Case 41.1 2—A little girl, four years old, who suffered from ophthalmia and swelling of the glands, was seized with pneumonia of the upper lobe of the right lung. She had swelling of the submaxillary gland and dilatation of the pupils. Death occurred on the fifth day. Sectio.—In the superior longitudinal sinus was a clot which was closely adherent to the coats of the sinus, and partly in a state of purulent softening in its interior. This clot extended for some distance into loth lateral sinuses. All the cerebral veins opening into, the sinuses contained pus mixed with clots. An ecchymosis was visible on the left hemisphere. The brain could not be examined more minutely. Case 42.2—A man, fifty-three years old, had cough with copious ex- pectoration. Tenderness of abdomen; ascites; fever; anorexia; con- stipation. Urine scanty. Later on, pain in the neighbourhood of the liver; jaundice; increased ascites; loss of strength; diarrhoea; involuntary evacuations; accessions of unconsciousness; death. Sectio.—In the longitudinal sinus a tolerably firm but com- pletely discoloured plug, J inch in length, occupying half the area of the sinus. This plug was a prolongation from one of the super- ficial veins of the arachnoid on the left side, which led to a mass of granulations. On the surface of the arachnoid a thin layer of exudation, with numerous fresh blood-corpuscles and yellowish icteric serum. In the granulations upon the whole surface, lami- nated chalky masses; the clots upon the granulations themselves partly knotty. Beneath the arachnoid of the cerebellum a small cliole-steatoma. Ascites; cirrhosis of the liver; spleen small. 1 Cruveilhier, loc. citat., 1. 8, pi. 4, fig*. 2 and 3, p. 4. 2 Vifchow, in ‘Dessen Arcli./ viii, p. 376.