269 ARITHMETIC MEANS. ON THE DEDUCTION OF PHYSIOLOGICAL AND PIIARMACO- DYNAMICAL PROBABILITIES FROM CO-ORDINATED SERIES OF OBSERVATIONS. By Professor BADICKE, of Bonn ; BEING A REPLY TO CRITICISMS ON THE AUTHOR’S PAPER ON “ARITHMETIC MEANS,” In Rosev’s ' Arcliiv fiir Heilkuncle,’ which are based upon a misunderstanding of the same.1 My paper on Arithmetic Means has been attacked by several medical statisticians. It might have been naturally presumed that men who had undertaken very laborious and tedious investigations, would look on most impatiently when the validity of the results of their labours was called in question, especially when the doubt so expressed was founded upon mathematical considerations. I believe, however, that the motive to their opposition lay less in dissatisfac- tion on this score, than in surprise at finding the accuracy of their conclusions denied, on the faith of the rules laid down by me, not- withstanding that the observations of one of them comprised a series of numbers of inordinate magnitude.2 Less umbrage would have been taken on this account if the real meaning of these rules had been more completely perceived than it has been. Erom a shyness of mathematical deductions, the rules themselves have not been attacked, but an attempt has been made to limit the sphere of their application, and especially to repudiate their applicability to medical investigations. And with the view of supporting this protest, as well as to elucidate the antithesis that is pretended to exist between the (so-called) phenomenal and the mathematical result of an inves- 1 In the case of Dr. Beneke, this feeling of discontent appears to have played a very prominent part, since he has committed himself in his answer to erroneous and groundless accusations, which I have met in a reply forwarded to ‘Roser’s Journal’ a short time ago, the publication of which will soon take place. (This reply has not yet been published.)—Translator. 2 Omitted from * Moleschott’s Untersuchungen zur Naturlehre des Menschen und der Thiere,’ vol. vi, part 4, 1859.