LEF1’ HEMISPHERE OE THE BRAIN. 161 vegetative filaments contained in them, appears to take place in the ganglia; that the ganglia do not serve for sensation is evident from the fact that the sensitive roots are not less sensitive above the ganglia, and that cutting off the ganglia does not destroy sensation in the central extremities of the roots.1 From all this I think we must infer that the atrophy in the ganglia of these nerves is directly connected with the atrophy of the different parts of the arm, the greater or less degree of which appears to depend rather on the amount of the loss of action which some fasciculi of nerve-filaments and their ganglionic globules have undergone. The peripheric force and activity in the nerves, the mode of action of which is wholly unknown to us, has been very satisfactorily proved by Ludwig's extremely important experiments, showing that, on irri- 1 Kolliker, who assumes the existence of both spinal and sympathetic filaments in the bones (Mikroskopische Anatomie, p. 340), lays it down that the sensitive filaments in the bones reflect their stimulus in the spinal cord to motor nerves, which thus react on the walls of the blood-vessels, and so regulate the condition of the vascular system. But it is far from being established that the peripheric action of the nerves consists solely in producing a movement, and therefore a contraction, of the muscular fibres, whether of other parts or of the blood-vessels; their action should in that case consist in causing the blood-vessels to contract, and so diminishing the vegetative function; indeed, Henle’s very improbable hypo- thesis, that this irritation of the sensitive or centrally acting filaments produces paralysis of the vaso-motor nerves, and consequently dilatation of the vessels, is, in my opinion, inadmissible, and has already been amply refuted by various writers, and among others by Paget (‘ Lectures on Inflammation,5 London, 1850, p. 55). In reference to this point it may be sufficient to observe, that in that case dilatation of the blood-vessels aud inflammation should follow the division of a nerve, by which the motor filaments are certainly paralysed, whereas the contrary takes place. According to this hypothesis, too, in atrophy of the ganglia and of the spinal cord, that is, in paralysis of these nerves, atrophy could not ensue, as it did in my case. If we admit the theory of the mutual interchange of forces, as Grove has suggested for the physical forces (see Grove, ‘The Correlation of the Physical Porces,5 London, 1850), and Carpenter for the organic kingdom (“ On the Mutual Relations of the Yital and Physical Porces,55 in the ‘ Philosophical Transactions of London,5 1850, pp. 727 et seq.), by which heat can be changed into motor force, or into electricity, or nerve-force passes into electricity in electrical fishes, or into motor force, &c., it can easily be ex- plained why greater nervous action must produce an increased supply of juices and augmented activity of the parts. Although this theory, too, is attended with difficulties, Carpenter’s essay, which contains many important views, deserves every consideration. 11