157 LEFT HEMISPHERE OE THE BRAIN. so-called nerve-plexuses, or ganglia of the fifth, sixth, and seventh cer- vical nerves (see Fig. Y). From the table already alluded to (p. 141), as well as from the drawing, it would appear that the ganglion of the fifth cervical nerve had undergone the greatest degree of diminution; the trunk also of this nerve, close to the ganglion, was most atro- phied ; the difference in the two nerves was somewhat less in the sixth pair, and least of all in the seventh; in the motor roots this difference was not so evident, at least it was in proportion infinitely less, so much so, in fact, that I could not estimate it by measure- ment. If we now attend to the course and distribution of the nerves, which unite (after decussating in the* brachial plexus) to form different nerve-trunks, it will appear, from Kronenberg’s investiga- tions, that the scapula and certainly also the clavicle, receive their supply from the fifth cervical nerve, and that the other parts of the arm, at least the muscles, receive nerve-filaments, which arise from all the subsequent nerve-roots.1 As the axillary nerve, in particular, also arises from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves, it would appear that the fifth and sixth nerves give their principal branches to the scapula, clavicle, and humerus, while the parts of the forearm receive their branches from the lower cervical nerves, the ganglia of which were less atrophied. But it is well known that the ganglia are situated only in the sen- sitive nerves, and that the motor nerves take no part in them, and, again, that the sensitive nerves exercise an especial and important influence on nutrition, and much more so than the motor nerves. The varying degree of atrophy of these ganglia is therefore, in my case also, in direct connexion with the varying degree of atrophy of the bones of the arm, into which the muscular nerves do not pass; and hence it appears to me that the inference is quite admissible, that the greater atrophy of the fifth and sixth ganglia was the imme- diate cause of the greater atrophy of the scapula, clavicle, and hume- rus, which could not be derived from the atrophy and inactivity of the muscles. The use of these ganglia in the sensitive nerves is as yet unascer- tained. But it appears to me indubitable that they are connected with the influence of the nerves on vegetative life; this is shown both by Magendie's well-known experiment of dividing the fifth nerve in the cranium, and by different cases of affections of the Gasserian gan- 1 H. Kronenberg, ‘Plexuum nervorum Structural Berol., 1836, pp. 45, 47, tab. i, fig. 2 ; tab. ii, fig. 2: tab, iii and v,