33 RHINOSCOPY. no other difficulty worth mentioning, in persons among whom there is a division, insensibility, or partial deficiency of the velum. Both before and after extracting naso-pharyngeal polypi, rhino- scopic observation appears throughout a duty to be performed, and ought, under such circumstances, to afford especially a great facility of execution in the greater number of cases. We ought, in short, again to make a remark here, and it is, that in the regions which have occupied our attention, the eye should serve as a useful guide to the hand in the performance of a sur- gical operation. As relating to the examination of the nasal cavities by the nostrils, which may be said to form a second mode of rhinoscopy, I would mention here, in conclusion, an instrument which Dr. Markusovszki, of Pesth, constructed some years ago, for this special end, and which deserves to be recommended and employed in all cases, as no other analogous instrument is generally made use of. It is formed in such a manner as to dilate and particularly to distend the opening of the nostrils, and resembles, in its mode of construction, an ear speculum with two compartments; but its size is much greater, and the divisions are larger and flatter. I have employed the dilator of Markusovszki several times, which I have found very easy to manipulate; and on introducing it in the ordinary manner, and making use of a perforated concave mirror, with the light of the sun or of a lamp, I could examine the nasal cavity very conveniently and very well. I especially perceived also in a manner wholly practical, the inferior turbinated bone and its free border, which passes to the extent of some twentieths of an inch, above the floor of the nasal fossae. In one instance wherein the nasal cavity was very capacious, I could see up to the posterior part of the pharyngo-nasal cavity. I shall incidentally add here, that I have succeeded in introducing upon the dead, through the orifice of the nostril previously dilated, a small mirror, like that which I employ in the examination of the larynx after the operation of laryngotomy (see Chapter Y, Cases i and 3), its reflecting surface being turned above and in front, and arranged in the space situated under the inferior turbinated bone, in such a manner as allowed of a clear view of the nasal orifice of the lachrymal canal, which was marked by a hog's bristle, that had been previously introduced. 3