252 THE IMPORTANCE OP of the errors in its empirically obtained numbers. All that it recog- nises, as a rule, is the fact that a statistical deduction which is founded on a broad basis is of more value than one which rests only on a few isolated instances. The second method contemplates the numbers obtained from the stand-point of the calculus of probabilities. Its judgment as to the limits of error in the numerical results obtained, and, consequently, on the value of the conclusions which are drawn from the observations, can only be a purely formal one. This formal criterion is, however, in the highest degree a valuable and important one. The third method subjects the result that is empirically obtained to the same kind of mathematical treatment ;l but it also recognises the fact, that, in addition to the purely formal consideration of the num- bers of any investigation, there may be other and independent rea- sons, arising from the nature of the object itself, which may, and even must be, regarded in drawing a conclusion. Such “intrinsic reasons” for the admissibility or non-admissibility of a conclusion from numbers empirically obtained, are frequently altogether un- known ; or, if the investigator wishes to throw off all prejudice, they must be ignored (e. g. in the case of nearly all therapeutic questions, especially those of a very complicated nature), and we are then exclusively dependent on the formal criticism of the result. These reasons are, in many cases, obvious only to the penetrating intuition of an adept; whilst in others they lie on the surface, and may be re- cognised by any one. It is natural that these reasons should be end- lessly varied, according to the nature of the object of investigation itself f they are, too, not easily amenable to dogmatic exposition; at least, I can unhesitatingly assert, that up to the present time no one has investigated the correlation of the individual doctrines of medicine with formal statistics; not even excepting the valuable details supplied by Gavarret, in the work previously men- tioned. The case of these intrinsic reasons, too, is very different from that of those with which the mathematical theory of statistics supplies us; for these latter are based upon more or less definite— we may even say, for many medical applications,2 upon nearly abso- 1 Of course it will be self-evident, that the actual employment of these mathematical operations may be dispensed with by those who are sufficiently adepts to recognise at a glance the correct data for a conclusion. 2 I say, “ upon more or less definite rules,” since all the formulae of the calculus of probabilities (I refer here only to the so-called indirect calculus)