200 THE IMPORTANCE OE smallest observations as the basis for estimating the measure of error; since it might easily happen that, with a number of small errors, one or at most a few large ones might be present, in which case we should get too unfavorable a standard. In forming our estimate, therefore, we take into consideration all the errors together, and assume as our standard the mean of the whole of them. This mean we call the mean error. The only question to be decided with regard to it is, which kind of Mean is best adapted for the purpose ? The Arithmetic Mean is obviously unsuitable, since we have seen in Section II {a) that the sum of the differences of the numbers of a series from their Arithmetic Mean (or the sum of their errors) always — o ; the Arithmetic Mean of the differences, therefore (which is, in fact, the mean error), would always be nil. We might, cer- tainly, obviate this difficulty by taking all the errors together as positive (in which case, in the example given in Section II {a) of the senes 3, o, 9, 4, 13, the mean error would be3 — ’ 5 5 but it is considered preferable to employ the Quadratic Mean ac- cording to the process adopted by Gauss and Legendre. I cannot, in this case, allow myself to enter into a theoretical expla- nation of the reasons for adopting this method of determining the mean error, firstly, because it would lead me too far away from the subject in hand, and, secondly, because it would presuppose, as requisite for its comprehension, an amount of mathematical knowledge which, in the circle of readers for whom this treatise is designed, is not to be expected. I will not, however, omit to mention two reasons which will be intelligible without any deep acquaintance with mathematics. The first of these is, that squares [i. e., squared numbers] are always positive; and, consequently, both positive and negative errors exercise equal weight in determining the mean error. The second reason depends upon the peculiarity of the Quadratic Means referred to in Section II (d), viz., that they increase, where the Arithmetic Means are identical, with the inequality of the observations. Hence two series of observations, whose errors, considered absolutely,1 give the same Arithmetic Mean, but of which one contains more unequal and, therefore, more important errors than the other, are obviously of unequal value. The series in which the errors are the more un- 1 The more accurate form of Arithmetic Mean, in which the errors occur with their signs, is not, naturally, in question here, since it would always give o as its mean error.