LARYNGOSCOPE. 24 lias been removed. Sfcoerk (‘ Bib./ No. 18) proposes to those phy- sicians who have not a dead body at their disposal, to study the larynx of dogs, of pigs, or of sheep. But the best preparation, according to my experience, is autoscopy. (See the preceding section.) As soon as a certain degree of expertness is possessed in the management of the instrument, we attain our aim in many cases rapidly, and with a surprising facility, because the laryngoscope, if well introduced, is borne, in the greater number of adults, much more easily than has been supposed, and this is proved by experi- ments repeated a hundred times. Sometimes, however, we do not succeed more or less completely until after numerous trials. There are a certain number of individuals in whom the organs of the throat are very irritable, abnormally proportioned, or placed in an abnormal position, &c.; on them the first examination does not give any definite results, or at least they are not satisfactory. In such cases we can, if it is not wished to make use of narcotics, by methodical practice, successively remove each difficulty, and a few days, as I have ascertained, are sufficient to obtain a good result; thus we can advise the opening of the mouth and to keep it widely open, to flatten and to advance the tongue, to render the back part of the mouth less sensitive, frequently placing it in contact with foreign bodies, &C.1 This practice will not be found void of utility, even when the first examination has already given satis- factory results, either because we may have the intention of repeating the examination more exactly and more conveniently, or because we may wish to render the performance of an operation possible, or oi any manipulative treatment whatsoever (see Section YI, page 34). 1 We read in the ‘ Gazette des Hopitaux’ of the 21st of April, i860: “A method has been proposed of facilitating this examination, which to us seems to possess sufficient merit to entitle it to consideration, llecent investigations have shown that the bromide of potassium possesses the property of producing an insensibility of the pharyngeal region. This singular and special anaesthetic property seems to have been used also with advantage, principally by Professor Gosselin, for an operation of staphyloraphy. “We would ask if the same means could not be made use of, to render the palato-pharyngeal region momentarily insensible to the contact of instruments, so as to facilitate the examination of the larynx.’*—Note of the German Translator.