206 THE IMPORTANCE OE With the view of demonstrating the point in question more pre- cisely, I shall make some preliminary observations. The numerically expressed increase or diminution of the excre- tion under investigation, which is the result of some definite cause, may obviously be regarded as the gauge of the influence which this cause exerts, and may be expressed by the phrase “ amount of the influence,” or more succinctly by the word “ influence •” and this number may be assumed as positive or negative, according as it refers to an increase or a diminution of the excretion. Thus, if, for instance, the series A embraces eight days, and the series B twelve days, the sum of all the influences at work in series A will equal 8P, and those in series B will equal 12p. Let us further assume that the number P consists of two elements, pJ and q, of which q expresses the effect of the supplementary agency, and p1 the average value of all the other influences : the sum of these latter will in series A = Sp'. In the suppositious case referred to above, where, after the elimination of the supplementary agency, the average quantity of the excretions in both cases was equal, and consequently p1 —p, the sums of the influences were 8p and 12p, and their relation to one another, there- fore, was 8:12. Hence we may characterise this case by the expres- sion, that in it the sums of the influences in the two series bear to one another the proportion of the numbers of the days during which the observations are carried on in the series respectively. We will now dismiss from consideration the preceding limited contingency, and direct our attention to the more probable case where p and p} are unequal, temporarily assuming that the physical condition of the individual remains unaltered, i. e. that any one cause always exerts a uniform influence upon the excretions. Thus, for example, the daily influence of the supplementary agency, sup- posing its daily amount to be uniform, will experience no fluctua- tions and will exactly equal its average q. Purther, the variations in the excretions, whose averages are p1 and q, will depend entirely upon the magnitude of the influences that operate upon them from without (upon the nature and quantity of the nutritive material, bodily activity, &c.) It must also be understood at the outset that those influences which, as in the case of atmospherical ones, are dependent upon the season of the year and the state of the weather, either do not ope- rate at all, or if they do, do so uniformly. Under these circum- stances it can be predicted with great probability that under the