271 ARITHMETIC MEANS. of disturbance is an obstacle to the application of rules wbicb are based upon mathematical considerations. If he had only read my paper upon Arithmetic Means with attention, he would have seen that the consideration of such unknown causes of disturbance plays a leading part in the determination of the rules I have laid down. With regard to the second piece of information with which we have been favoured, the idea of the existence of two kinds of logic, it is not probable that it will find many supporters. The antagonism which, as Dr. Lehmann and others assert, occasionally appears to exist between mathematics and practical knowledge, will be easily cleared up, if the import of the rules I have laid down is more accurately studied. To make their meaning as evident as possible is the object of the present paper; and I shall avail myself of this opportunity, to provide my opponents with better weapons than they have hitherto used against me, whilst I may even moderate their objections to the mathematical complexion of the rules I have laid down, by showing them that, in their origin, those rules are not purely mathematical, but that they contain a certain arbitrary element. The only effect, however, of this arbitrary element, is to leave room in the limits of rules for a slight fluctuation in the relia- bility of the result deduced from the Means obtained. That my final opinion neither was intended to be, nor could be, absolutely reliable, but that it admitted of variation within certain limits, was indicated in the first section of my paper. The state of the case, then, is as follows : the number of observations is not large enough in any one of the physiological or pharmaco-dynamical series of researches which have been hitherto published, to enable us to assert that the unavoidable causes of disturbance have compensated one another at the time when their Arithmetic Mean was taken. A certain number of these disturbing causes, therefore, the amount of which cannot be determined, at least not by mathematics, will remain unneutralised. Thus, if of two series of observations, A and B, the first gives a higher Arithmetic Mean than the second, we must still remain ignorant whether the preponderance of one Mean over the other arises from the unneutralised portion of the disturbing causes, or whether it has been conditioned by the agency whose operation we are investigating; hence we can have no absolute certainty as to whether the effect of that agency is to increase or diminish. But although we may not be able to attain to absolute certainty on this point, we may, nevertheless, feel that there is a greater or a less