COLD IN SURGERY. 281 of treatment, and, by a process of reasoning in accordance with the physiological views of his time, he arrived at the conclusion that cold water ought to be tried. This new mode of proceeding he found most effectual in all subsequent cases, so much so that he introduced the practice among the other surgeons of the Prussian army. Theden, who was also surgeon-general of the same army, speaks, in his 'Neuen Bemerkungen zur Chirurgie/ 1782, of excellent results from the application of cold water in very dangerous injuries and inflammations. He relates, for instance, how, by the application of cold water, he cured himself of a very severe phlegmonous in- flammation of his arm, which was caused by pricking his finger in opening an abscess. He observed very favorable results from the remedy in cases of frostbites, of incarcerated hernia, &c., and ventured to treat even erysipelas with cold water. Although, notwithstanding, he goes on to recommend his “ gunshot water/' he does this only, as he himself remarks, because envy and spite prevented him from em- ploying the simplest remedy in the treatment of wounds. This “ gun- shot water" of his, however, he used to dilute with great quantities of pure cold water. In the year 1785 the Prench army-surgeons, Percy and Lombard, had opportunities of observing the good results which are to be attained from the use of cold in the treatment of severe injuries. Some new guns were being proved at Strasbourg. Several of them burst, and many soldiers were severely wounded. A miller from the Elsass offered to cure them rapidly, provided the treatment were intrusted exclusively to him. The wounded were, in consequence, handed over to him, and the miller kept his promise. He cured his patients rapidly by using merely cold water, to which he added a little alum, and to which he imparted virtue by various magic spells. Lombard, who watched the proceeding, saw, of course, that the rapid cure of these cases was simply due to the cold water, and he himself obtained similar good results from this remedy in a series of cases which, soon afterwards, the bursting of some other guns brought under his treatment. In the following year he published a paper on the local application of cold water in surgical diseases. Percy, in the year 1792, had a further opportunity of observing the favorable results of the cold-water treatment. While at Saarlouis, he wit- nessed the success obtained by two German army-surgeons by the exclusive application of cold water in many cases of severe