PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 57 visible from above, unless under particularly favorable circum- stances. Altogether, this proceeding appears to me of still greater import- ance, inasmuch as it enables the physician to control with the eye the movements of the hand, in sounding or cauterizing, or in per- forming any other operative measure. Experience has convinced me that, with a little practice, it is possible to manipulate nicely, and without difficulty, through the fenestrated canula, because of the proximity of the parts, and because one is but little inconve- nienced by the mobility of the neighbouring organs. I believe it even possible, in spite of the sensibility of the glottis, to open an abscess, or to cut off accidental substances, which are developed within the larynx or the trachea. I would particularly claim attention to the employment of the galvanic cautery, which, independently of any other consideration, always recommends itself by the absence of hsemorrhage. If the laryngoscopic examination establishes with certainty (as in Case 2) the presence of an accidental production in those regions of. the larynx which are difficult of access from above, and if their excision should seem necessary, it would be better to perform laryn- gotomy first, and then to introduce the laryngoscope in the fenestrated canula, and to operate by means of the galvanic cautery. Case 4.—Cicatrices and loss of substance of the larynx, causing incurable aphonia ; destruction of the epiglottis, and part of the velum palati, from old syphilitic disease. The mother of the patient of whom we have just spoken, E. E—, aged sixty-eight years, a native of Baja, has had aphonia for six years. She attributes this condition to a cold, occasioned, she says, by a cold drink; the aphonia suddenly supervened. She also states that she has never had any symptoms of syphilis. Nevertheless, at an examination made on January 13th, 1859, I discovered a suppu- rating perforation at the junction of the hard and soft palate, great loss of substance of the velum, particularly on the right side, and numerous cicatrices in the pharynx, evidently of syphilitic origin. The larynx could be easily examined, in consequence of the in- sensibility of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, and also of the