56 LARYNGOSCOPE. image, by a morbid cushion and the right vocal cord; the view can extend higher up into the pharynx, through this opening. Whilst I examined the- pharynx through this opening, I re- Em. 17. quested the patient to open the mouth ; and Dr. Bokai, chief physician to the hospital, convinced himself that the pharynx and the soft palate were really illuminated by the luminous rays which penetrated from below. It was curious to examine the con- stricted glottis, from below upwards, during phonation (see Eig. 17, 2). When I requested the patient to utter a sound, which, of course, she could not ac- I immediately observed the borders of the glottis to approach one another, and to leave but a very narrow oblong crack, or rather a furrow, which however was not rectilinear, nor equally narrow throughout its length, because of the swelling and puffing up of the : position ot tne swollen . . ... ,... . , ... . inferior surface of the VOCal COl’ds, which still existed, although somewhat diminished. Also, in closing the canula, the voice was very feeble and hoarse. Fig. 17. 1. The larynx examined from below upwards, through the separated glottis; a a, borders of the vocal cords which bound the glottis; b b, con- striction of the elastic cone, beneath the arytenoid processes; c, superior portion of the posterior wall of the .. . larynx, where some patches appeared COmpilsn, since the operation; d, extre- mity of the arytenoid cartilage of the right side; /, very prominent mor- bid cushion, situated about the height of the posterior portion of the left false vocal cord, and which is oblite- rated forwards and outwards; it was not distinctly visible in the exami- nation made by the pharynx, in con- sequence of the position of the swolle epiglottis epiglottis, which arises obliquely back wards. 2. The constricted glottis of this patient, seen from below. Some weeks later, when the swelling of the mucous membrane of the larynx had considerably diminished, and when the voice had become almost natural, the narrowed glottis during phonation had its borders entire and rectilinear ; we then distinctly perceived the angles which were determined by the displacements of the arytenoid processes (see Chapter IY, Section I, pages 38, 39), and which we had not seen during the swelling of the vocal cords. The importance of the method proposed by M. Neudoerfer, which consists in an examination made through the fenestrated canula, was here incontestably proved for the second time. It allowed us to study the larynx in a precise and convenient manner from below, and rendered visible parts which, in an examination made from above, are difficult of access, or remain always concealed. We could equally in this way, as has been already observed by M. JXeudoerfer, extend our view into the deepest parts of the trachea, which are not