CEREBRAL SINUSES. 115 the foramen caecum, and are generally larger in children than in adults. Moreover, with the exception of a transient attack of con- vulsions, any symptoms indicative of an affection of the brain were wanting; and if we bear in mind how frequently convulsions occur in the diseases of early infancy, we cannot attach much importance to their occurrence in this case. To assume a direct metastatic source of the thrombus in the sinus from the seat of the abscess in the thigh, appears to me in the highest degree unreasonable, since any emboli detached thence would have to pass two systems of capillaries before reaching the sinus. I am unable to state in what relation the recent endocarditis and lobular pneumonia, which did not present the metastatic but the lobular form peculiar to early age, stood to the sanious abscess. If we compare these cases of thrombosis of the sinuses from marasmus with those in which the thrombosis depended upon processes of inflammation, a series of differences very essential in themselves and very important for the diagnosis of future cases presents itself. Tirst, as regards the age of the patients in the two classes, we are at once struck with the circumstance that while, in the first class, the middle period of life, between the time of the development of puberty and old age, predominates, in the, second it is especially the period of childhood up to the 14th year which is represented, with the addition of a few cases at a very advanced age. If to this we add that Billiet and Barthez1 observed eighteen cases of thrombosis of the sinuses in children which belong to the last class, a comparatively very great frequency of thrombosis of the sinuses from marasmus in infancy becomes apparent.2 1 ‘Traite des Maladies des Enfants/ 2eme edit., i, 166. 2 The above-named authors give the following table of age for their cases: Children of 2 years old . . .6 » 4 » • • .4 jj 5 » * * • 1 „ 6 and 7 years old . .2 „ 9 years old . .2 „ 10, 11, and 14 years old -3 18 cases. For the sixteen cases reported above (including mine) the following summary presents itself: