COLD IN SURGERY. 287 the hand or the arm has become gangrenous, in consequence of having been wrapped up, lege artis, in dry bandages, and then treated with cold compresses. This kind of misfortune, indeed, can only happen to medical men who are extremely careless, or who have never heard that a dry bandage contracts greatly as soon as it is wetted; but on referring to the literature of this subject, we find that such incidents have been explained by the adversaries of our remedy as the bad effects of cold, whilst they were simply the con- sequence of wet, or rather of carelessness or ignorance. For all the above-mentioned reasons, cold compresses ought to be dispensed with, at least in severe cases; or if necessity compels one to use them, their application ought to be carefully superintended. But truly the time has fully come when the expressions “cold” and “ cold compresses,” ought not to stand any more for one and the same thing. Yery much more effective, and in many cases well answering the purpose, are cold local baths (immersions) and affusions with cold water (irrigations). If we place a part of the body for a considerable time in cold water, or if we allow a slender stream to play continuously upon it, we then very energetically abstract heat from the part, fresh par- ticles of cold water being brought in quick succession into contact with its surface. In the case of immersion this effect is produced in the following way :—the particles of water in contact with the part become warmed, and thus give rise to currents which carry them away, replacing them, at the same time, by other colder particles. In this procedure the whole surface of the immersed part is constantly washed by the cooling medium. The effect is therefore comparatively powerful and extended, and hence, as a rule, for fear of bad consequences, wTe should be careful to avoid, in this mode of application, the employment of too low a temperature. I saw, not long ago, a boy who had lost all the fingers of his right hand, in consequence of his surgeon having applied continuous baths of cold water, of about 45° E., to a not very considerable con- tusion of the hand. The patient soon got violent pains in his fingers and in his arm. The surgeon thought that they were produced by the inflammation which had meanwhile set in, and this notion only induced him the more to persevere in the cold-water application. The pains lasted for three days, and ceased only with the death of