135 LEFT HEMISPHERE OF THE BRAIN. were much thinner, and, particularly at the posterior cornu, appeared extremely soft and nearly broken down.1 The right corpus striatum (Fig. Ill, k) was longer than the left (g)—- 54 mm. to 50 mm., but was somewhat narrower—17 mm. to 19 mm.; the outer margin of the left was uneven and undulating (see Fig. Ill, above g), and the entire body was as if curved around the shortened thalamus.2 But the difference between the thalami was particularly remarkable; the length of the right thalamus amounted to 41 mm., that of the atrophied side to only 34 mm., while the latter presented an almost triangular form, in consequence of the marked projection of the inferior tubercle. The taenia between the corpus striatum and thalamus appeared swollen and thickened, in consequence of the thickening of the pia mater lying on it, and from the blood-vessel running along it several branches spread over the left corpus stria- tum, apparently the result of former chronic inflammation in these parts.3 The glandula pinealis was large, and, in consequence of the unequal length of the thalami, lay rather obliquely; the commissura mollis between the thalami seemed to be dissolved. Of the corpora quadrigemina the left anterior was smaller than the right, the pos- terior horn of the left ventricle (h i) was much more dilated; and by the atrophy of the walls and the consequent stronger impression of the gyri, the cornu ammonis and the impressio digitata on the left side were better marked than on the right ;4 the entrance to the third inferior horn was much wider on the left side (k); the commissura maxima, as well as the fornix, was very soft, particularly on the left side. At the base of the brain the difference between the two hemi- spheres was especially remarkable,5 and was, in fact, so considerable, that the length of the right hemisphere (Fig. IY, a, c) exceeded that of the left [d,f) by 27 mm.6 The left inferior lobe (e) in particular 1 Fig. Ill, c. The difference in thickness between the convolutions of the healthy and affected side, which I have represented as faithfully as possible, is particularly well shown in these figures. 2 This same curving of the corpus striatum, in a case of well-marked atrophy of the thalamus, is likewise shown, and is even still more strongly represented, by Cruveilhier, ‘ Anat. Path./ livr. v, pi. v, fig. 3. 3 Fig. Ill, at g. 4 Fig. IV, between h and m ; the impressio digitata in the direction of i. 6 Fig. IY, a b c, d ef. ^ 6 See the table, in which the difference between the size of the parts on the right and left side of the whole body is accurately given in millimetres;