121 CEREBRAL SINUSES. cases of the two series. In the first they are very frequent (sixteen times in thirty-two cases), while in the second they are altogether wanting. Since, to explain the establishment of metastatic pro- cesses as they occur chiefly in the lungs, and more rarely in the liver and in other parts of the body, we are driven more and more to the assumption of embolus, we must look for the cause of this difference more particularly in the character of the thrombi; and this furnishes, in reality, a sufficient explanation of the fact. In the first series, the thrombi are generally continuations from the smaller veins, which, as Yirchow has shown, offer the best oppor- tunity for the separation of particles by the current of the blood; in addition to which, their greater tendency to decomposition favours such separation. In the second series, the more rapid mode cff formation in the sinus itself, the firm character of the coagulum, and the retardation of the current of the blood from marasmus, are unfavorable to the separation of particles from the thrombus. It thus becomes evident why the so-called pysemic symptoms, and the rigors followed by adynamic fever, occur in the cases of the first group, while they are altogether absent in those of the second. It now only remains to inquire whether any and, if so, what symptoms are peculiar to thrombus of the sinuses during life. In the majority of cases such symptoms are wanting, and we find only those proper to affections of the brain and its membranes — affections which, as we have seen, have either had a common origin with the thrombosis of the sinuses, or must be regarded as resulting from it. Neither can it be said that the thrombosis of the sinuses impresses any peculiar stamp upon these affections as regards their external phenomena by which to distinguish them from such as have resulted from other causes. But the aggregate of the symptoms, as existing in GerhardBs cases, may render it possible to diagnose thrombosis of the sinuses in children. If profuse diarrhoeas in weakly children are followed by cerebral symptoms, with depression of the fontanelles and overlapping of the bones of the skull, accompanied by an unequal distension of the external jugular veins of the two sides, the diagnosis of throm- bosis of the sinuses is a probable one, and that on the side on which the vein is least distended; but the absence of the last-named phenomenon by no means excludes the possibility of thrombosis of the sinuses, because, if it exist chiefly in the superior longitudinal sinus.