36 LARYNGOSCOPE. posterior wall of tlie pharynx and the base of the tongue, the superior part of the epiglottis free, the mucous membrane of which is more or less injected. Sometimes this membrane is pale, and, like the conjunctiva of the eye, presents only some clearly defined red vessels, beautifully ramifying over its surface. In that position, the epiglottis touches the posterior wall of the pharynx with the superior part of its lateral borders ; there remains no interval for the passage of air but below, at the two sides, and above about the middle. Through this narrow elliptical cleft, which exists between the superior border of the epiglottis and the walls of the pharynx, we can see to a greater extent forwards. We then perceive a transverse cushion of the mucous membrane, of a reddish colour, which is closely applied to the posterior wall of the pharynx; it is slightly swollen at its two sides, and presents a small nodule more or less distinct, previous to disappearing beneath the lateral borders of the epiglottis. The cushion is formed by the edge of the fold of the mucous membrane, sustained between the two separated arytenoid cartilages. The oesophagus commences here, where the posterior outline of this fold encounters the wall of the pharynx; but when it is not distended by a foreign body, its walls are completely collapsed. The anterior outline of this fold is concave in front, and forms with the superior border of the epiglottis, situated a little higher, and which is concave behind, a narrow transversely elliptical fissure, which conducts to the interior of the larynx (Plate II, fig. i). It is necessary to separate the epiglottis from the posterior wall of the pharynx, when we wish to render broader the field of vision in the interior of the larynx and of the trachea. We accom- plish this by giving to the base of the tongue a convenient position, as, for instance, in pronouncing the sounds ah or eh. The complete emission of the vowel e elevates the base of the tongue to the point of entirely covering the laryngoscope; but it does not do so when we desire only to pronounce this vowel; yet the mere attempt sometimes suffices to bring about the wished-for result. In myself, the epiglottis does not change its position in the emission of an a, as in all. Pig. 2, in Plate II, represents the image given by the laryngoscope, when the epiglottis is elevated. This arrangement corresponds to the state of tranquil respiration, and differs little from that represented in Fig. 1. The semilunar space behind the base of the tongue is enlarged, the epiglottis is