106 THROMBOSIS OF THE riglit hemisphere of the cerebrum; old, yellowish-coloured cicatrices and yellow softening of spots in the neighbourhood of the fissure of Sylvius. There was also purulent phlebitis of the common iliac and left crural veins, and the vena azygos contained pus almost as far as its communication with the superior cava. Slight serous effusion into the left pleura. Lungs healthy. Partial atrophy of the parietal bones. In both these cases the thrombosis of the sinuses is doubtless to be attributed to the great age of the subjects, and to senile maras- mus. In the last, plugs in a state of suppuration existed in other parts of the venous system, which depended upon the same causes and appeared to be of earlier origin, as is shown as well by the history of the case as by the more advanced stage of metamorphosis. Case 38.1—A child, two years of age, which had long been very weakly, died suddenly with symptoms of suffocation. At the post- mortem examination, a fresh clot was found in the anterior portion of the superior longitudinal sinus, while the posterior portion of the sinus was filled with false membranes and a fluid resembling the lees of wine; the veins communicating with the sinus were much distended with blood. In the centre of the right hemisphere there was a large apoplectic clot. In this case infantile marasmus would appear to have given rise to the thrombosis of the sinuses, and the case itself* may fairly be grouped with the two preceding ones of marasmus senilis. Case 39.2—A boy, fourteen years old, suffered from ague- cachexia, with oedema of the limbs and enlargement of the liver and spleen. Diarrhoea and cough came on, followed by fainting fits, cyanosis of the face, dyspnoea, and death. Sectio.—In the superior longitudinal and lateral sinuses firm clots. Brain normal, with a large quantity of serum in the ventricles. The spleen enlarged; the lungs hepatized. Case 40.3—A boy, fifteen years old, who had been suffering for 1 Tonnele, loc. citat. Lebert, loc. citat., p. 387. 2 Tonnele, ‘Rust’s Magaz.,’ 41, p. 139, 1834. V. Albers. 3 Tonnele, loc. citat.