PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 47 Fig. 13. Since that period she has gone on tolerably well, but the larynx is completely closed, in such a manner that it is impossible for the patient to inspire the least quantity of air through the larynx; this was readily shown, on stopping up the external aperture of the canula through which she breathed. It was necessary, in the first place, to know exactly the seat of the occlusion, and the pathological condition of the larynx generally, in order to assist the general treatment of the constitutional disease by local treatment of the larynx; this made a laryngoscopic examina- tion desirable. My first attempts to examine the larynx by means of a speculum were not successful, either because the epi- glottis proved an obstacle, or that the patient could not sustain the contact of the laryngo- scope beyond a certain period. In order to overcome this last difficulty, I persuaded her to place a laryngeal mirror frequently at the back part of the mouth, so as to ac- custom these parts to the contact of a foreign body; this introduction was made either by the patient herself or by her physician. At the end of a fortnight the sensibility had become so blunted, that it was possible to make a laryngoscopic examination with success. It may be mentioned, that I had previously succeeded in causing the elevation of the epiglottis by a deep inspiration (al- though this was not obtained by air passing through the larynx, hut through the canula), ^ 13. superiol. aspecl of the and by attempting to utter loud sounds, larynx closed bythe sailing . • n , -i , 710 t ii of the inferior portion of the principally the word eh l &c. 1 then per- vocal cords; h, this swelling ceived the image represented in Fig. 13, a. The false vocal cords were slightly swelled and injected, but moveable without any appreciable distress; in fact, it was pos- sible to bring them rapidly in contact one against the other, in the median line, and afterwards to separate them so as to permit the ventricles of Morgagni and the inferior vocal cords to be distinctly perceived. seen from below upwards through the canula; c, dia- gram of the seat of this swelling; o, s, t, superior vocal cords; v, M, ventricles of Morgagni; u,s.t, inferior vocal cords.