112 THROMBOSIS OF THE Sectio.—The bones of the skull overlapped each other, especially at the back of the head; a large quantity of serum flowed from the posterior cranial fossa. The superior longitudinal and right lateral sinus, with many communicating veins of the right hemisphere, were filled with firm thrombi, which wrere partly coloured red by recent deposit, but otherwise of a gray colour and hard, and in the longitu- dinal sinus adherent. In their interior they are partly softened. The pia mater much injected and cedematous. (Edema and great hypersemia of the brain. The lungs, which are emphysematous anteriorly, show partial atelectasis and patches of lobular pneu- monia. Melanotic discoloration of the small intestine and of the enlarged follicles in the large intestine. Case 48.—A well-fed boy, three months old, was seized with profuse diarrhoea. The greater fontanelle flat and pulsating strongly. Temporal and frontal vein strongly developed. Jugular vein on both sides much and equally distended. The child lies quietly, with an unconscious stare and occasional strabismus; both pupils equally dilated. Complete unconsciousness, with opisthotonos and rigidity of the muscles, followed. The fontanelle sinks in, the bones of the skull overlap each other. Convergent strabismus; somnolence. First, the left external jugular vein became more distended, then the same vein on the right side enormously so, while that of the left side appeared almost empty; slight paralysis of the left side of the face; left pupil more dilated. After some transient improvement the child again became worse, with indications of consolidation of the posterior part of the right lung. Death on the 1 ith day. Sectio.—Extravasation into the subcutaneous cellular tissue at the back part of the head; the posterior half of the bones of the skull very hypersemic. In the superior longitudinal sinus anteriorly, fluid blood and recent coagula; an inch and a half from its posterior extremity commences a knobby, discoloured, but not yet softened thrombus; which extends of so great size into both lateral sinuses that these, especially the left, appear externally like thick, roundish, hard cords. They extend to within half an inch from the jugular foramen, and end in smooth points. The left is partially adherent, and completely fills the sinus; the right, not. Hyperaemia of the pia mater and gray substance of the brain. Patches of pneumonia in lower lobe of both lungs. Usual condition of intestines.