54 LARYNGOSCOPE. hospital (January 13th), and had confirmed the following condition (see Tig. 16, a):—The epiglottis is enormous, extensively injected, and possesses a thickness of almost that of the finger; on the right Tig. 16. Fig. 16. a, Mucous patch on the swollen epiglottis; b, ulcerations formed afterwards. side can be perceived a large mucous patch, which spreads deeply upon the posterior surface, and which is covered with thick pus, of a dirty-yellow colour. The entrance of the larynx is so constricted, that a small part of the vocal cords, slightly inflamed, alone remains visible, and the air enters and departs with a loud noise. The patient was submitted to treatment by ointments. On January 20th, I examined her for the second time, and found that not only was the right mucous patch scooped out, and its purulent layer appeared erased, but that an ulcer had also formed on the left side, small, but deep, in such a manner that the epiglottis, still swollen, pre- sented a form altogether peculiar, of three lobes (Tig. 16, b). The puru- lent mucus seemed to arise especially from the left ulcer, between the epiglottis and the left aryteno-epiglottic ligament, rendering the breathing often troublesome, and frequently causing attacks of coughing. The entrance of the larynx was always obstructed by the swelling of the parts, although, in consequence of the retraction of the right ulcer, we could perceive a much larger portion of the true and false vocal cords of the same side. The treatment by ointments was continued, but we did not employ local cauterization to the ulcers of the epiglottis, which, nevertheless, could have been done with certainty by the aid of the laryn- goscope. When I examined the patient over again, 011 January 29th, the infiltration and swelling of the epiglottis had considerably dimi- nished ; the jagged bottom of the ulcers was but slightly covered with a semi-liquid muco-pus, and possessed the reddish colour of a mucous membrane. However, the loss of substance produced by the ulcerations was considerable, and the epiglottis invariably pre^