LEFT HEMISPHERE OF THE BRAIN. 147 Cruveilhier's case, where well-marked atrophy of the left side of the cerebellum was found, with atrophy of the thalamus and particularly of the middle lobe of the cerebrum on the same side, no paralysis existed; at least the child brought both hands to its mouth.1 In my case, too, the paralysis was evidently the result of the opposite atro- phy of the cerebrum; the atrophy of the one hemisphere of the cerebellum seemed in this instance to have given rise to no symp- toms.2 Generally speaking, I suspect that the phenomena of disturbed movement in vivisections after lesions of the cerebellum are to be explained as the result of irritation conveyed through the fibres of the pons varolii from the cerebellum to the corpora pyra- midalia, whereby we can further easily account for the fact that these lesions produce their effects on the opposite side, whither they are transferred through the inferior decussation of the corpora pyrami- dalia. The experiments of Tlourens and Hertwich, therefore, appear to me properly to prove nothing for the direct influence of the cerebellum on motion, much less on the so-called co-ordination of movement; as we see that in a frog, where the whole head with the cerebellum is cut away, irritation of the hind foot is capable of exciting by reflexion jumps and perfectly co-ordinate movements, the cause of which is, therefore, to be sought, not in the cerebellum, but in the spinal cord. In twenty-one of these twenty-eight cases, the condition of the corpora striata and thalami is stated; in seventeen, both these parts were diminished in size on the atrophied side; in three, the thalamus of the atrophied hemisphere was smaller ;3 in one case only the corpus striatum appeared to be affected, while the thalamus was healthy ;4 in three instances it is distinctly stated that the corpora striata and thalami of both sides were equally large and sound,5 although here, too, paralysis existed on the one side. Much more rarely do we find any change in the pons varolii described; in the greater majority of cases writers seem not to have 1 Cruveilhier, ‘Anat. Path./ livr. v, obs. 3, pi. v. 3 Romberg, too, remarks the same, ‘Lehrbuch/ 1. c., p. 819. 3 Cazauvielh, in Nasse, 1. c., 4 Beob., p. 15. See also Lallemand, 1. c., obs. 28, and Cruveilhier, * Anat. Path./ livr. v, obs. 3, pi. v. Also in Lallemand, obs. 33, and Lallemand, obs. 37. Gall, ‘ Sur le Syst. nerveux/ tome iii, p. 36. 4 Lallemand, 1. c., obs. 40. 5 Cazauvielh, in Nasse, 1. c., 2 Beob. and 6 Beob., and Laflejofi^d, 1. c.,obs, 41.