ATROPHY OF THE 150 central parts; usually, however, the inflammation is in this case not limited to one hemisphere, hut extends over both.1 With respect to the symptoms produced by this unilateral atrophy of the brain, they manifest themselves partly in the more or less defective exercise of the mental powers, and partly extend their influence, as I have shown at length in the above case, over the rest of the body. That in atrophy of one half of the cerebrum the psy- chical powers should be blunted or paralysed, might perhaps be assumed as generally true (and, in fact, such atrophy is most usually met with in idiots); still it is far from being universally the case, for although in some instances mention is made of rather blunted mental powers, examples also occur where, with atrophy of one hemisphere, the intellectual faculties appeared to be in their normal condition. Andral reports the case of a man, who died in his twenty-eighth year, and who, when a child of three years, had, after a fall, continued para- lysed on one side; the right hemisphere of the brain was so com- pletely" atrophied that the pia mater formed a cyst, in which not a trace of cerebral matter remained. This membrane constituted the upper wall of a large cavity, the floor of which alone was formed by the thalamus, the corpus striatum, and all the parts found on a level with these two bodies : so that, observes Andral, nothing remained 1 Although I have to regret that my endeavours to obtain further informa- tion as to the earlier condition of the patient and the nature of the symptoms in my case have been unsuccessful, we may find the phenomena which usually occur in these cases more fully developed by Lallemand. See ‘ Pbecherches sur l’Enceph.,’ lettre viii, pp. 298 et seq. As this lesion commences so early as, and perhaps sometimes even before, birth, there has rarely been opportunity of accurately observing its earlier phe- nomena ; most of the latter were of a spasmodic nature, and were accompanied with stiffness and rigidity of the muscles, which passed into a slowly progres- sive paralysis, interrupted, however, by intermissions of shorter or longer dura- tion, which Lallemand regards as a species of relapse (L c., pp. 301 and 303), produced by repeated inflammatory congestions. Resting chiefly on the results of post-mortem examinations, I quite agree with Lallemand, that an inflamma- tion of a chronic nature, which in the brain (not being a very irritable part) often manifests no very striking phenomena, is at the bottom of these attacks. The course of these phenomena agrees closely with that of those usually met with in softening of the brain, also at a later period of life, especially in the cases where the corpus striatum is at the same time affected; we find, among others, some examples of this in the work of Durand-Fardel, c Traite du ramol- lissement du Cerveau,’ Paris, 1843, obs. 81—83, and 86. Here, too, when softening lasts long, absorption and atrophy supervene.