138 ATROPHY OF THE cerebral lobe is situated; but that on the left side forms an inclined plane (c), passing obliquely downwards from the lower edge of the clinoid process, and, in place of a cavity, presenting a slightly convex surface. This gives rise to such a considerable difference in the bone, that while the thickness of the wing on the right side, at the part marked d, amounts to only 2 mm., on the opposite side (c) it attains not less than 20 mm. This wing of the sphenoid bone is separated on the left side from the squamous portion of the temporal bone by a very deep, venous groove, behind which the wall of the temporal bone projects inward in a strongly convex form (0); in the situation of this letter the thickness of the temporal bone amounts to 12 mm., on the opposite or healthy side to 2*5 mm. In like manner, the inner surface of the os petrosum is very much thickened on the left side, presenting a convex appearance, without any indi- cation of the arching of the semicircular canals (/); the distance from the inner and upper edge of the external auditory passage to the surface of the petrous bone amounts, on the left side at f} to 19 mm., on the right to only 13 \ mm. In addition, there are internally on the skull, wherever the latter is thickened, numerous grooves for blood-vessels, both on the arch and on the base, which on the opposite or sound side are either wholly absent or are much smaller.1 The condition of the skull at the occiput, or cerebellar region, is particularly remarkable. Here everything is reversed; just as we saw that in this situation the left half of the cerebellum is the larger, the right being diminished. To this the skull corresponds; not only is the left cavity for the cerebellum (n) much more spacious and larger than the right (m), but here the thickness of the skull is reversed; thus, while on the left side the cranial wall at the situation n is, through a tolerably great extent, very slight and transparent, amounting to about 1 ยง mm. in thickness, on the right side it is thicker, measuring at the thinnest part, at m} about 2j mm.; while in the neighbourhood of this point the thick- ness rapidly augments to 5 mm., affording a striking proof how much the form of the skull adapts itself to that of the brain. No remarkable difference is discoverable between the foramina for the nerves on either side; the round opening for the second branch of the fifth pair alone seems to be somewhat wider on the left, but the carotid canal is much narrower at its entrance 1 Figs. I and II.