THE IMPORTANCE OF 272 degree of probability about it. The greater the divergence of the two Means is from one another, in comparison with the magnitude of the disturbing causes, which may be recognised by the fluctua- tions of the numbers in any given series of observations—the more probable it is that the effect is to be entirely, or at least partially ascribed to the agency under observation. The question which we have, therefore, to determine, is, what is the minimum mean differ- ence in comparison with the fluctuations, which will justify us in concluding, with sufficient certainty, that the greater amount of the Mean in series A is due to the operation of the agency imder inves- tigation ? If the observations arc sufficiently numerous to allow us to assume that the causes of disturbance have not operated uniformly, or preponderatingly, in the same direction in one of the series to be compared—or that they have not preponderated in their operation in different directions—we may then measure the causes of disturb- ance by the fluctuations, and assume that the excess of the Mean of series A was caused by the agency if the mean difference exceeds the greatest fluctuation. But as this is very rarely the case, and as the test becomes, therefore, of less practical value, it may be asked whether a smaller divergence in the Means, and if so, to what extent, will not allow us to infer with sufficient probability the operation of the agency under investigation in favour of series A. With all our mathematical knowledge, however, it is impossible to answer this question positively, in such a way as to be beyond objection, because it is impossible to determine the real amount of tire disturb- ing causes, and also because one person may place greater reliance in the certainty of the result than another would, which depends upon the undefinable nature of the expression, “ sufficient probability.” Now if we assume a certain minimum as our normal standard, our proceedings will partake (within certain limits, at least) of an arbi- trary character. This arbitrary character I gave to my rules when I stated that the mean difference should at least exceed, not the maximum, but the mean fluctuations, which are sensibly smaller. Another mathematician might probably have been satisfied with the mean difference exceeding the half of the mean fluctuations. Dr. Lehmann, for example, is convinced of the operation of the agent, if the mean difference is greater than the mean fluctuation of either of the two series (at least that is what in effect he means). Another