159 LEFT HEMISPHERE OF THE BRAIN. or recurrent, the author obtained similar results.1 But after the branches of the fifth pair, which unite with the facial (the suborbital, the buccal, and the auriculo-temporal), were cut through in a dog, without injuring the facial, the muscles were at the end of six weeks discoloured, and, although still irritable, were much less sensitive than on the sound side; while after division of the facial alone the irritability was still unchanged at the end of twelve weeks.2 From this experiment we may therefore infer that the sensitive nerves exer- cise much more influence on nutrition than the motor nerves do, and that consequently the rest which follows the division of the muscular nerves is at least not the sole cause of the atrophy of the bones, although I will not deny the influence of the muscular nerves on the paralysis and atrophy of muscles, apparent in many cases of the former affection. [In the * Dublin Quarterly Journal* for August, 1852, vol. xiv, p. 248, I have myself made some observations which bear some resemblance to the above. They must have been penned about the same time, the date of Professor Schroeder van der Kolk's essay being also 1852.—Translator.] If we reflect upon the mode of action of the sensitive nerves, we shall find that it is centripetal towards the brain; and therefore the special sensitive filaments, which in my case (as in most instances of unilateral atrophy) had not lost their sensation, cannot influence vegetative life, which would require a centrifugal action. Now, the coexistence of the latter with centripetal action would be absolutely impossible, since a double action in one and the same nerve-filament, simultaneously extending centrally and peripherically, is an absurdity unsupported by a single fact. But as it is equally indisputable that the sensitive nerves do exercise a peripheric action, the latter must be attributed to the numerous sympathetic filaments, present in the sensitive nerves, which confer upon these nerves a power of peripheric action they would otherwise not possess. It is well known that Bidder and Volkmann have demonstrated these fila- ments, and indeed in much greater number in the sensitive than in the motor nerves, and they have also shown that they are most numerous where anymore decidedly vegetative function—for example, a secretion—is fulfilled.3 Although from several quarters arguments 1 Longet, ‘Physiol./ tomeii, pp. 51 et seq. 2 Longet, 1. c., p. 59. 3 P. H. Bidder und Volkmann, ‘Die Selbstanaigkeit des Sympath. Nerven- system/ Leipsic, 1842, pp. 62 et seq.