LARYNGOSCOPE. 14 Fig. 3. If, for example, as is shown in Fig. 3, Jc represents the laryngeal mirror, d a fasciculus of the solar rays, c the visual axis of the observer; the point a, which remains invisible to the observer, is found illu- minated, whilst the point b, accessible to view, remains obscure. The position of the observer, and of the in- dividual examined, ought equally to vary ac- Fuj. 3. i-. Laryngeal mir. cording to the height of the sun; this some- X ’dt’ lum^ous1 fascii times produces situations unfavorable to the culi- success of the examination. Finally, the observer may find himself baffled in a very unfortunate way, by the situation of the apartment, by the more or less clear- ness of the sky, and by the changes in the direction of the rays of the sun at the different hours of the day, &c. At the commencement of my laryngoscopic studies, I very naturally conceived the idea of substituting for the light of the sun, which is so frequently at fault, an artificial light, which would permit of uninterrupted observations. I soon succeeded in showing that we could do without the rays of the sun in our laryngoscopic researches, up to a certain point, although we might never wholly replace them. If we approximate an intense flame to the open mouth of a patient, the observer can examine the pharynx and employ the laryngoscope, in placing his eye very close to the flame; and this latter may be masked by a screen or a reflector, as in the simple form of ophthalmoscope of Helmholtz. In order to have both hands free, I have placed a candle and its reflector before the eyes, by means of a handle fixed between the teeth (‘Bib./ No. 2). But I have succeeded in obtaining a result more complete and easy still (‘ Bib./ No. 1), in using the large ophthalmoscope of Ruete, joined to a powerful moderator-lamp.1 On introducing the employment of the ophthalmoscope in laryn- goscopy, I have accomplished the necessary concentration of the rays of artificial light, in a manner by which these researches have become independent of the light of the sun. But I have found it very convenient, on the other hand, always to use for the purposes of 1 Since then I have used a whiter and more intense light, such as, for example, that of ordinary gas, camphine, &c. Besides, natural philosophy fur- nishes us with sufficient means for increasing the intensity of artificial light.