ON THE USE OF 314 ]lever to open these abscesses, because, in iny opinion, it never does any good to the patient, but may sometimes do a great deal of harm. It is well known that such abscesses are scarcely ever painful to the patient, or otherwise inconvenient. Tor years together they retain the same size, or become alternately a little smaller and a little larger. If they are opened the immediate consequence is a more or less considerable loss of the juices of the body, and, as a rule, the suppuration goes on for a long time, and the secretion of pus, equally with any of the vital processes, exhausts the strength of the body. We have also to consider the danger already alluded to of chronic or even acute pyaemia. In former times I used occasionally to see such patients die rapidly after the abscess had been opened. On the other hand, it is well known that even very extensive abscesses of this kind become not unfrequently absorbed as the patient's general health improves. It is true that there are surgeons who doubt the possibility of any such absorption. This is showu by the long and serious debate on this subject which took place in the year 1858 at the Paris Surgical Society. But such a doubt, I should think, can only exist in the mind of those surgeons who are in the habit of at once plunging their bistouries into any spot in which they detect fluc- tuation. The duty of the surgeon in these cases seems to me to be, not to accelerate or occasion the opening of the abscess, but to pre- vent it as long as possible, and in the mean time to do his best to promote absorption. In cases of this kind, also, the continued abstraction of heat seems to be of use, as the following example, to which I could add several others, will show. Case r 2.—Chronic rheumatic inflammation of several dorsal and lumbar vertebra; psoas-abscess on the left side j entire absorption of the same under four weeks’ treatment by ice.—John P—, a boy, set. 16, caught a severe cold three years ago, and in consequence of it complained of pain in the back, which became more intense after long walking or in carrying heavy weights, but which sometimes nearly altogether disappeared. The pain shot from time to time along the intercostal nerves to the anterior surface of the chest, and appears to have been taken for a symptom of pleurisy, and was treated by blistering, &c. A year ago the patient remarked, for the first time, a small, scarcely painful, swelling in the left groin. It grew slowly to the size of a hen's egg, and about half a year ago another swelling appeared somewhat above the first. These swellings were