LEFT HEMISPHERE OF THE BRAIN. 163 the brain and spinal cord are wholly annihilated. It is well known that in such lusus natures the nerve-roots terminate in the dura mater, without being able to unite with the brain or spinal cord, because these parts have disappeared.1 In several examples I have traced the central terminations of the nerves; in some the spinal cord ended at the superior cervical vertebrae; in these I found the Gasserian ganglion of the fifth pair uninjured beneath the dura mater, while the brain was wholly destroyed by the previous dropsy at an early period of foetal life, without leaving a trace of its existence. It would appear that the sac, at an early date, while the skull and skin are still very weak, and can give no sufficient sup- port, bursts, the cerebral membranes collapse, and all the cerebral matter in most cases completely disappears, so that often not a trace of it is to be met with.2 The fifth pair of nerves was not connected with the medulla oblongata, the latter having been annihilated, and still the eyes and face were very well formed and developed. In other examples both the brain and the entire spinal cord were wholly absent, and nevertheless the body was well formed. In these cases, therefore, the brain or spinal cord could not act on or stimulate these ganglia, and the influence of the nerves, necessary for the growth of the several parts, must therefore have taken its origin from the ganglia themselves. The same subjects, however, distinctly exhibit also the influence of the spinal cord; for in as many of these examples as I have had an opportunity of examining, the foetuses were, where the spinal cord was entirely absent, considerably smaller, less developed, and not so heavy; while in the anencephali, in which only the brain and a portion of the medulla oblongata are wanting, but the rest of the cord exists uninjured, the foetuses are much heavier, and some- times are even very largely developed, in consequence, as it appears to me, of the non-interruption of the exciting influence of the cord on these ganglia.3 1 See several examples of this in W. Vrolik, ‘Handboek der ziektek. out- leedkunde/ i Deel, pp. 472, &c. Geoffroy Saint-IIilaire gives a tolerably good drawing of these nerves in his ‘ Philosophic anatomique/ pi. 14, fig. 1. It is to be regretted that, in such important lesions, sufficient attention has not been paid to the condition of the ganglia. 2 See also the above-quoted work of Professor W. Vrolik, ‘ Handboek/ pp. 491 et seq. 3 Thus I found in all anencephali, where the spinal cord was absent, the roots of the nerves which terminate in the dura mater to be much slighter and atrophied. Having been accidentally present, some months ago, when my esteemed