202 THE IMPORTANCE OE pies of the calculus of probabilities, that I have here intentionally laid myself open to the charge of inaccuracy. In reality, what is generally taken as the measure of value is not the reciprocal value -, but its n square -, for which there are good reasons. 1 & These reasons, however, are only of importance when we wish to combine, for the purpose of more extended calculations, series of observations of un- equal value, which refer to the same quantities. Tor the object which we have in view, which does not require an application of that kind, the simpler and more easily comprehended process for estimat- ing the measure of accuracy is equally efficient. (c) The Probable Error.—If the probable value of the quantity to be found from a series of observations (which here, too, is the Arith- metic Mean) = a, we may take another fixed number b, of such a nature that, if the observations were repeated very frequently, their results would lie as often within the limits of a — b, and a *f b, as with- out them. And if /3 were ever so little greater than by it would be more probable still that the next observation would rather fall within the limits of a — /3 and «+/3, than without them. The number b is called the Probable Error, and it is obtained, in accordance with the rules of the calculus of probabilities, by multiplying the mean error by the numbers .67449, i. e. by nearly two thirds of the mean error. In Kaupp's series, quoted above, the probable error will, therefore, be 1.091 x .674 = .736. That is to say, if the observations in question were repeated sufficiently often, their divergence from the mean 24.059 would more, rather than less, frequently be within the num- ber .736; or, in other words, would more often be within the limits of 23.323 and 24.795, than without them. It must, however, neyer be forgotten that, in laying down these rules, it is always presumed that the Arithmetic Mean really repre- sents the probable value of the quantity under observation. If this should happen not to be completely the case, i. e. should the observa- tions not be sufficiently numerous, the product, which we have called the “ probable error,” will, in a corresponding degree, possess more or less of the characteristic referred to; but when the series of obser- vations is too shorty it is no longer applicable.