50 LARYNGOSCOPE. border of the laryngotomic wound, where we may perceive a small vegetation. The figure in outline (Pig. 14, c) represents the form of the swelling of the mucous membrane, following a section through the larynx from right to left. We recognise the folds formed by the mucous membrane at the interior of the larynx, situated one upon the other, separated by the ventricles of Morgagni (v. 31.), and prominent towards the orifice of the larynx. The dotted lines indicate the considerable swelling of the inferior portion of the vocal cords, the result of scrofulous infiltration, whilst the internal border of the superior lamella is in a normal condition. The swelling caused the closure of the glottis. I had recourse to the laryngoscope, in guiding my hand, to intro- duce probangs either from above through the glottis, or from below, in order to estimate the resistance offered by these tumours, which I found to be very strong. On introducing a probang from below upwards, and pushing it with force into the furrow, 1 succeeded in traversing it with the button many times. This passage was con- firmed by the depth to which the instrument was driven, and by the tickling which provoked a cough, manifestly arising from touching the vocal cords, and finally by the sensation felt by the patient. It was now proved that the passage through this place was not yet obliterated. There remained the therapeutic indication of maintaining and enlarging this by the introduction of sounds. It was this plan which Professor Balassa and myself followed in this patient, from that time. We frequently continued the laryngoscopic examination from above and below, in order to watch the progress of the local affec- tion. In this way we were convinced that the scrofulous infiltra- tion of the mucous membrane, which closed the larynx beneath the free borders of the vocal cords, had extended to that portion of the latter which had hitherto remained free. At the same time it had extended downwards to the deeper parts, so that the closure occupied all the portion situated between the vocal cords and edge of the laryngotomic opening; nevertheless, the infiltrated parts were less rigid and less tense (spring of 1859). The frequent introduction of sounds into the stricture, through the opening in the canula, produced, amongst others, the following result. After the withdrawal of the probang, we could perceive, bv laryngoscopic inspection from below upwards, a canal situated