17 AUTOLAHYNGrOSCOPY. Stoerk, ' Bib./ No. 18). It appears, however, that latterly he has returned to my method of illuminating by means of the ophthal- moscope ; he describes, at the same time, a foot of the illuminating mirror, articulating like an arm ('Bib./ No. 19). There remains yet another method of illuminating the different parts of the larynx. I have called it illumination by transparency (' Bib./ No. 2); in fact, the larynx and the trachea have, as I pointed out, in certain spots, a certain degree of transparency, the same as the tissues which they cover. In delicate persons, we perceive the glottis illuminated by a reddish light, when the sun falls upon the external surface of the neck. But when we con- centrate the solar light by the aid of a concave mirror, or by that of a lens, upon particular spots about the neck, some one or other part of the larynx becomes transparent, like the finger placed before a flame. This transparency, of a beautiful incandescent red, is at times sufficient to permit of laryngoscopic examination. The concentrated light from gas sometimes produces, but less distinctly, the same effect. It would be possible to employ my proceeding, which has been likewise confirmed by Dr. Gerhardt (' Bib./ No. 15), to the examination of the thickness of the vocal cords, varying according to physiological or pathological circum- stances, and above all to the correct appreciation of the seat and depth of the alterations in the trachea. Section III.—Of Autolaryngoscopy. Garcia says that, "If the observer experiments on himself, he ought, by means of a second mirror, to receive the rays of the sun, and direct them on the mirror which is placed against the uvula.” Since my first attempts made with artificial light, I have adopted a method somewhat different. In fact, I place as close as possible to the mouth, widely open, the flame of a lamp, previously removing the globe, and in this manner I have illuminated the pharynx. I then hold horizontally, between the eyes and the flame, an oblong quadrangular mirror with one hand, of sufficient size to protect the eyes from the light and to give an image of the illuminated pharynx. We prevent the flat mirror from becoming tarnished, by heating it above the flame of the illuminating lamp, as we are in the habit of doing with the laryngeal mirror.