LARYNGOSCOPE. 60 another in front in the median line, even when the glottis is but half open, and that they almost entirely cover the inferior vocal cords. We can only perceive in the figure but a narrow portion of the posterior part of the border of the inferior vocal cords. When the patient desires to utter a sound, the false vocal cords apply themselves one against the other in the median line, whilst, in the normal condition of phonation, they are found always at a distance of a few lines from one another. This circumstance prevented the formation of regular sonorous vibrations. The air could pass only but with a hissing noise be- tween the edges of the relaxed superior vocal cords. This abnormal state was, without doubt, in the present instance, the real cause of the aphonia. In deep inspiration, the glottis opened itself in a normal manner, and of a normal width. The favorable circumstances which were met with in this patient, in consequence of the insensibility and conformation of the velum palati, permitted of my examining the ivhole of the trachea down to the bifurcation. Case 7.—Aphonia for eight months; constriction and insufficiency of the glottis ; swelling and infiltration of the mucous membrane of the arytenoid cartilages ; obliteration of the ventricles of Mor- gagni ; direct cauterization of the affected parts by the aid of the laryngoscope ; formation of white eschars. On the 26th January, I examined, at the request of Professor Balassa, M. J. II—, a merchant, aged thirty-two years. Eighteen months ago, on a very hot summer's day, he was suddenly seized with a dreadful haemoptysis, the result of violent agitation, and after drinking a large quantity of cold water; subsequently, fits of coughing and hoarseness supervened, but the haemoptysis did not return. The patient has had aphonia for eight months, and breathes with a sensible rattling noise. Inspiration is more or less distressing. The laryngoscopic examination made known constriction and insufficiency of the glottis; the constriction was brought about by the swelling and considerable infiltration of the mucous membrane which encloses the arytenoid cartilages, and which necessarily limited the mobility and likewise the separation of the arytenoid cartilages and their processes; the insufficiency, on the