117 CEREBRAL SIiNUSES. consequence of tlie thrombosis of the sinuses, but Virchow makes no mention of their embolic character, nor were any changes met with in the lungs corresponding to such an origin. But the ascites occurring simultaneously could not fail to impede the respiration, while the very painful peritonitis which preceded the thrombosis in case 43 must have checked the energy of the respiratory movements for a considerable time. In most of the cases observed by Killiett and Barthez, also, impediments to respiration existed, such as tuber- culosis of the lungs and rachitis, in the latter of which the muscular debility and the projections of the chest present themselves as such. It is quite otherwise, however, with the affections of the respi- ratory organs not unfrequent in the cases in the first section. They consist chiefly in metastatic deposits in the lungs, or in metastatic pleurisy, and are thus to be regarded as consequences of the throm- bosis, not as causal elements in its production. It seems also to be something more than mere accident that essential deviations as regards the site of the thrombosis in the two series of cases exist. I have already remarked that in throm- bosis of the sinuses, resulting from caries of the petrous bone, the site of the thrombosis, except in a single case in which it occurred in the cavernous sinus, was, for obvious reasons, in the lateral or superior petrosal sinus of the side affected, whence it frequently ex- tended to the cavernous sinus and internal jugular vein. Once only did it extend as far as the posterior extremity of the superior longitudinal sinus and lateral sinus of the opposite side. The extension, there- fore, is mostly confined to one side, and affects duplicate sinuses and veins of one or the other side. We also observe that in the other cases of this series the thrombosis almost always commenced in the sinus nearest to the caries of the bones of the skull, the seat of injury, or other inflammatory affection, so that the anatomical connexion with the part first affected is evident. On the whole, the azygous superior longitudinal sinus was the seat of thrombi only when either the thrombosis was very extensive, or inflammation and injury existed within the area of the veins of the pia mater, dura mater, or parietal bone, which discharge themselves into it, as follows from the assumption that the thrombosis is to be regarded as a prolonga- tion from the smaller veins into the sinus. In the second series we see, on the contrary, that thrombosis of this azygous sinus is wanting only once, and that in a case in which another azygous sinus—the straight sinus (case 49)—was filled with