285 COLD IN SURGERY. an increased supply of blood; and all this occurs to an abnormal degree if inflammation be present. But if tbe deprivation of warmtli be continued for a longer period, not only the supply of blood, but also the local changes in the tissues, become diminished, because the parts acquire, by degrees, so low a temperature, that chemical pro- cesses take place in them with increasing difficulty. If, therefore, we have to deal with inflamed parts, we have it in our power to re- move the chief conditions of the abnormal production of heat. But after a time we are even able to reduce the morbid increase of temperature of the entire mass of blood. This fluid, passing in a continued flow from the heated through the cooled parts, has to yield to them a considerable quantity of its warmth. It is true that the observations of Traube, Bergmann, Hoppe, Liebermeister, and others, have shown that abstraction of warmtli from the body by exterior causes is soon followed by a proportionate increase of the blood-temperature, and therefore gives rise to an increased pro- duction of heat in the organism. It has been justly maintained that a regulating apparatus for the production of heat must some- where exist, though its exact seat has not yet been made out. If this apparatus acted uniformly under all circumstances, it would, of course, be useless to try to reduce the temperature of the blood by outward cooling. But this regulating apparatus acts only within certain limits. If the abstraction of heat be continued for a longer period, and if it be applied to a sufficiently large surface of the body, the loss of heat will soon surpass its reproduction, and a decrease of the tem- perature of the blood will follow, which may be determined by the thermometer.1 Thus we have, in the local abstraction of heat, a remedy against fever, and it follows from all that has been stated that there is no other known remedy with which we are able to attack the inflam- 1 Compare Traube, ‘Deutsche Klinik,’ 1852, p. 176; ‘ Charite Annalen,’vols. 1 and 2 ; Virchow’s c Archiv,’ 1858, vol. xv, p. 70. Very interesting experiments on the effect of continued abstraction of heat on the temperature of the body are reported in Mr. James Currie’s valuable paper, ‘‘Medical Reports on the Effects of Water, Cold and Warm, as a Remedy in Eever and other Diseases,’ Liverpool, 1798. The first volume of this work was translated into German by Dr. Michaelis in the year 1801. The second volume was trans- lated in 1807 by my honoured colleague, Statsrath Professor Hegewish, who supplied his translation with interesting remarks. In perusing this work I was often-reminded “that there is nothing new under the sun.5’