139 LEFT HEMISPHERE OF THE BRAIN. into and exit from the petrous bone on the left side, thus corre- sponding to the diminished size of the atrophied hemisphere of the brain, in the proportion of 4 mm. to 6 mm. diameter on the healthy side. On the contrary, the foramen spinosum for the arteria meningea media (r), which runs through the deep groove on the left at 0, and supplies the thicker cerebral wall with nourish- ment, is much wider than on the right side. The sinus rectus infe- rior, again, is very wide, and repairs, in an oblique direction, to the foramen jugulare of the right side (i), which is much wider than on the left or atrophied side, the diameter of this opening being only 31 mm. on the left, while on the right it amounts to 6*8 mm. It is remarkable that exactly along the sinuses, both the longitudinal and transverse, and particularly on the right side, where they are wider, a thin, white, osseous plate seems to have separated on the rest of the bone, which is yellow, the contrast in colour rendering the former very conspicuous.1 Although externally no great difference is visible between the right and left side of the skull, a difference is evident in some points; thus, for example, the malar process of the upper jaw, and from the zygoma beneath the orbit, is somewhat thicker on the left side, mea- suring exactly in the middle under the orbit, 2i\ mm. on the left, and 20 mm. on the right, side. The zygomatic cavity for the tem- poral muscle is likewise larger on the left side, its longest antero- posterior diameter amounting to 37 mm., while that of the right side is only 33 mm.; the height from the coronoid process to the inferior margin of the jaw amounts on the left side to 61, on the right to only 38 mm.; whence it would seem that the greater nutrition of the left side of the skull extended also to the temporal muscle and to the lower jaw, although in a less degree. Hence it appears that, along the whole course of the fifth pair of nerves of the left side, which must have been more irritated, a greater degree of growth, and a greater deposition of new matter, must have taken place, a point of which I shall hereafter treat. The unilateral atrophy of the rest of the body, and particularly of the superior extremity of the right side, consequently opposite to that of the brain, was not less strongly marked. Thus, the length of the clavicle on the left or sound side amounted to 140 mm., on the right to only 129; the circumference of this bone, and therefore its proportionate thickness, was an inch ; of the sternum, on the left,