195 ARITHMETIC MEANS. If we take now, a series of measurements of any given quan- tity, we shall find in reference to it, that, in consequence of the greater or less imperfection of all our means of measurement, not one of the results obtained can be looked upon as absolutely certain, but that each of them is vitiated by a certain degree of error, the real value and amount of which it is impossible for us accurately to learn. If we have no reason for supposing that the error in each of our measurements is more likely to lie on one side of the normal than on the other, we shall be justified, in conformity with the above law, in concluding—provided the measurements are sufficiently nu- merous—that the sum of those on the one side is equal to that of those on the other side, i. e., that the Arithmetic Mean of the results represents, as accurately as possible, the measurement required. The conjectural reliability of the mean value depends upon two con- ditions : (1) that in each of the different measurements the error in one direction does not probably exceed that in the other; and (2) that the number of measurements is itself sufficiently great. Practically in all such measurements of fixed quantities, in which we require extreme accuracy, we never neglect to avail ourselves of the aid which this process offers. The more recent delicate instruments for angular measurements have, indeed, reached so high a degree of perfection, and their employ- ment is so simple, that the errors arising from the manipulation of them, especially with skilful observers, can be but of very slight conse- quence ; and yet in many cases, e. g., in geodetic operations, the frequent repetition of measurement of individual angles is never neg- lected, when these measurements are intended to serve as the basis for the computation of numerous other quantities, or for purposes of minute comparison; so that we may obtain an average whose ac- curacy shall sensibly surpass the limits of that of any individual measurement, or even of that of its smallest graduation. Much less complete, in comparison with these, are the measure- ments of quantitative chemical analysis. Por the quantitative deter- mination of any one element of a substance, in addition to repeated weighings, numerous operations are often necessary, from none of which can special and unavoidable errors be excluded; so that the inaccuracy of a single determination, which is made up of the sum of various individual errors, sometimes reaches a high percentage. In comparing the chemical composition of two different substances, therefore, it is requisite that our measurements should be repeated in