ON THE USE OF 310 without the help of morphia. The ice was used continuously during four weeks, after which time the pain and the swelling had entirely disappeared, and it Avas oidy when strongly pressed per vaginam that the affected part felt still somewhat tender. The cold began now to be disagreeable to her. It was discontinued, and concen- trated solution of nitrate of silver was used locally for the next four Aveeks. The Avoman was then entirely cured, and left the hospital without a trace of lameness. Case 9.—Chronic purulent inflammation of the knee-joint; appli- cation of ice for twelve weeks.—Christine It—, a girl, mt. 16, had been suffering six years from inflammation of the left knee-joint. It was said to have arisen spontaneously, and the pain was so severe that she had been compelled to keep her bed during the last feAV years. She came to the hospital to have her limb amputated. The knee Avas swollen to the size of a man’s head; it wras bent at a right angle, and the skin over it was red, hot, and tense. At several points dis- tinct fluctuation could be felt, and perforation was imminent. The pain which folloAved every touch or movement, and which came on also often by itself, was so intense that the patient scarcely got any sleep. She presented a cachectic appearance, was very feverish, the pulse being 150, and had entirely lost her appetite. I thought it scarcely possible that the limb could be saved, but it appeared advisable to 'delay amputation till the general health of the girl had somewdiat improved. The leg was therefore placed comfortably and securely on Heister’s splint, and to each side of the splint an ice-bag was ap- plied. The next night the patient slept more comfortably than she had done for a long time, and dining the folloAving feiv days her state improved rapidly. The fever as Avell as the pain diminished more and more. After a fortnight the swelling was considerably decreased, fluctuation was scarcely to be felt, and the joint Avas but little tender on pressure. After the ice-bags had been continuously applied for twelve Aveeks they were removed, because the patient no longer de- rived comfort from them. The joint Avas then very little swollen, and no longer tender on pressure. The girl had entirely recovered her general health, and looked even blooming. Concentrated solution of nitrate of silver, in the form of a paint, Avas used for four weeks longer, under Avhich treatment the remain- ing swelling disappeared so entirely that it was difficult to detect