COLD IN SURGERY. 283 The answer to this question seems to me not a very difficult one. The stronger the curative power of a remedy is, the more im- portant is it that it should be judiciously and rightly employed, and the more dangerous will the consequences be of its injudicious ap- plication. All our most powerful medicaments are poisonous, if wrongly administered, but no reasonable practitioner will expunge opium, for instance, from his list of remedies because a too large dose of it may possibly kill a patient. This applies not merely to the remedies which we get from the apothecary's shop, but just as well to those simple agents of nature, the effects of which modern medical art endeavours to turn more and more to use. If cold, then, be one of the most powerful among these, every injudicious appli- cation of it must necessarily be dangerous. But we must attribute the bad consequences by which its use is followed in such cases, certainly not to the remedy itself, but to its improper application. I feel justified in stating that most of the opponents of cold are adverse to it only because they have never used it, or have never seen it used in a pure and judicious maimer. A great number of practitioners with whom I have become acquainted date their aversion to cold from the time of their pupilage, and have never since attempted to make experiments of their own on this remedy because they had inherited from their masters the dread of it, as of a two-edged weapon. In speaking of the application of cold, the expression “ cold com- presses" is almost universally made use of. This one circumstance alone proves how little conscious people generally are of the effects which are really produced by using cold in that way. Bor, as we shall hereafter see, that mode of applying it is, of all modes by which cold can be brought to act, the least to the purpose and the most un- certain ; and very often, by that method of application, precisely the opposite of what was intended is effected. But before I enter upon the consideration of the subject, it seems to me necessary to examine what are the effects which are to be expected, and which can be obtained, from the use of cold in the treatment of inflammatory and similar processes, for then only will it be possible to ascertain if, in a given case, we really produce these effects, or if we come short of them. One of the most important symptoms, and, according to the best modern observations, the most important factor in inflammatory