THE IMPORTANCE OE 266 hours, is of such or such an amount. In reference to this point, it should be remembered this amount is only estimated for the sake of convenience, and that we may have small numbers to deal with, whilst the series of observations compared embrace unequal numbers of days, and that, therefore, the result of the investigation lies strictly in the sums of the individual days. Where the numbers of days in the different series is uniform, it is preferable to adopt the sums of these days, instead of the value determined for twenty-four hours. According to this way of looking at the question each Mean, in our collected observations will have only an approximative value; and it appears to me, for these reasons, that those are in error who set out with the idea of drawing infallible conclusions from one, or even several, mean numbers. How little good is to be got from a single set of observations on one individual appears very clearly from Professor Radicke's own consi- derations. In the first place, he shows, in two investigations ofBoecker's, that the mean quantities of urine, viz., 1499 and 1549 would have become converted into 1554 and 1494, if the observations had been limited to eight days instead of twelve; and that the Means would have again changed to 1545 and 1515, if the thirteenth day had ex- hibited the same quantity as the twelfth. In another place, Professor Radicke rejects a conclusion of mine, which I certainly never drew, viz., that sea-bathing diminishes the urinary secretion. He states, that if only the first four days of my seven days' investigation 011 the action of sea-bathing are considered, and the data of these days com- pared with those of the four days without bathing, which appear to him equally objectionable, no diminution of the urine, but rather an increase (about 18 cub. cent.) will be evident. This is correct: but if the last four days of the seven days' series are considered, and compared with the preceding four days, a very evident diminution of the urine will be seen; and were it not that my doing so might justify the assertion which has been fathered upon me, I would cite this cir- cumstance as a proof that the fluctuations of the numbers in a single series of observations, and on a single individual, allow of no certain conclusion being drawn from them, although they may give impres- sions of a highly approximative accuracy—impressions whose cer- tainty is not much increased by a mathematical estimation of the value of the numbers obtained. Professor Radicke rejects researches of three and four days altoge- ther. As a rule, I agree with him on this point, and I would, espe-