259 ARITHMETIC MEANS. We can estimate accurately enough the working capacity of a steam engine under given conditions, and wliat change will be effected in it by an alteration of those conditions. On this point we obtain in- fallible numbers, in determining the value of which we have no further difficulty. But the animal, or, at least, the human organism, is not such an engine. Day by day, and hour by hour, influences are at work upon it which may alter the course of the vital processes to a greater or less extent; and whatever may be the nature of the investigations which we institute upon it, it will always be more necessary accurately to estimate these influences, i. e., to test the experiment physiologi- cally, than to employ the keen analysis of mathematics upon the numbers we obtain. It is, I think, a mistake to expect to make the results which have been hitherto obtained by physiologico-chemical experiments more certain by mathematical examination of the series of numbers obtained. Every one, on the other hand, who has carried out many investigations of this kind, knows that during the progress of his experiments a confidence or mistrust in the results arises, which is much more convincing than the numbers themselves, and the experimenter is often without doubt as to the correctness of his result, notwithstanding the demonstration of the mathematician that the difference which may have been found between the two Means obtained from the series under examination, lies within the limits of error of the calculation. It is possible—and I wish and hope that it may be so—that the advice of Professor Badicke may be the means of communicating to our results a greater accuracy than they have hitherto often had, and that they may obviate hasty and decided generalizations. But I also think that the physiologist, as well as the medical man, will look upon all the numerical values con- nected with these investigations as only approximately correct, and that the most careful estimate of probabilities will not rectify the numbers, if proper physiological considerations have been de- ficient, or if careful manipulation and processes were not adopted in obtaining them. The valuation of the numbers—the determination of their Arithmetic Mean—must also always precede the examination of them which the experimenter should make; and it is requisite that the experimenter, as well as everyone who attempts to criticise them, should possess sufficient acquaintance with physiology, in order to estimate them at their absolute value, as well as to test the greater or lesser probability of accuracy which they possess. The