THROMBOSIS OE THE 120 (inflammatory affections of the brain and its membranes) lies so near at hand as to require no further allusion. As regards the second point (haemorrhages), it appears to require further elucidation, since haemorrhages from the complete obstruction of one of the larger trunks, such as the sinuses, and rupture of vessels in the soft and yielding tissues, must be as frequent in the one case as in the other. It appears to me that the different mode of origin of the thrombi may clear up this point. I have already attempted to establish the view, for the majority of the cases in the first series, that the thrombosis does not generally originate in the sinus itself, but must be regarded as a continuation from the small veins of the diploe or other inflamed parts. In this way the thrombus is formed more gradually, advancing along the walls of the sinus, and not occupying its whole calibre till some time afterwards, so that collateral veins continue for a while to pour their blood into still unobstructed portions of it; the distension of the communicating veins will, therefore, have time to spread further, and find other, though in- sufficient, outlets. In thrombosis dependent upon marasmus, the thrombus generally arises first in the sinus itself, because the con- ditions there are most favorable to its formation. The blood coagulates more quickly because its movement is slower, the coagu- lation frequently extends to all the veins opening into it, and the calibre of the sinus sooner becomes completely obstructed, before a collateral circulation is properly established and the blood dis- tributed elsewhere. The distension and tenseness of the communi- cating vessels will therefore reach a high point in a shorter time, which explains the greater tendency to ruptures and haemorrhages. In addition to this, it is almost always the azygous superior longi- tudinal sinus (which lies in the median line, and receives blood from both hemispheres) which is found obstructed in the cases of the second series, and a collateral compensation of the excess in the veins opening into it must be less easily established than when merely one or other of the duplicate sinuses has become im- permeable. Trom what has just been said it also follows that venous hvper- temia and oedema in the brain and its membranes must be frequent post-mortem phenomena in both series, as is found to be really the case. In conclusion, it is worthy of special remark that a difference exists with regard to the frequency of metastatic processes in the