COLD IN SURGERY. 313 puration, and where abscesses have formed—the use of cold will not be unattended by beneficial effects. Case i i .—Pott's curvature, formed by suppuration of the eighth and ninth dorsal vertebrce; fistula in the inguinal region from the opening of psoas abscess; application of iron-plate box during six weeks.—Margaret B—, a servant girl, set. 21, whose father died of consumption, got a swelling of the size of a walnut, and accom- panied by scarcely any pain, in the right inguinal region. The swelling grew slowly to the size of the fist. Her medical attendant, who diagnosed an abscess, kept the swelling poulticed for eight days, and at the end of that time made an incision, out of which a large quantity of pus escaped. In consequence of the rather profuse sup- puration which followed, the strength of the patient diminished rapidly; she lost her appetite, and soon got intense pain in the back, which shot down into the right leg, and became so intense in walk- ing and standing that she could not keep herself up any longer. A curvature of the spine having also formed, she came to seek relief in the hospital. On examining her, I found a considerable curvature in the region of the eighth and ninth dorsal vertebrae, with all the characteristic symptoms of suppuration of the bodies of several ver- tebrae. There was, moreover, the already mentioned suppurating fistula in the groin, into wffich a probe could be passed upwards for a distance of two inches. The patient was kept for six weeks on the cold cushion repre- sented in fig. 4. Leeches’ were applied from time to time in the region of the prominent vertebrae, and cod-liver oil and iron were given internally. Under this treatment at the end of the six weeks all pain and tenderness of the vertebrae on pressure and in walking had disappeared, and although there was still some pus secreted from the fistula, the girl had recovered sufficiently to leave the hospital. This she did at her own wish, but was advised to continue with the internal remedies for some time longer. This is the place to say a few words about the treatment of the ab- scesses (the so-called “ senkungs-” or “ congestions-abscesse”) which so often occur in inflammation of the vertebral column, and which point in such various situations. They are not unfrequently the first symptom which indicates to the parents or the medical attendant that the patient is labouring under a vertebral affection. It is my principle