89 CEREB.RAL SINUSES. consequence of so-called otitis interna,, is most largely represented, viz., twenty times. Lebert,1 in a very valuable work, has laid great stress upon the circumstance that phlebitis of the lateral sinus is frequently the con- necting link between otitis interna and the cerebral and pysemic phenomena which so frequently follow it. In each of the twenty cases mentioned there existed thrombosis in the lateral sinus of the side affected with caries. Only in one case observed by Stannius2 was the cavernous sinus the seat of a suppu- rative phlebitis, which extended to the vena ophthalmica and vena facialis anterior and its branches. In this case it might certainly be doubtful whether the affection of the cavernous sinus had not been produced by erysipelas of the corresponding side of the face, from which the thrombosis and phlebitis had extended to the cavernous sinus by means of the anastomosis of the vena ophthalmica with the vena facialis anterior, had not the superficial caries of the petrous portion of the temporal bone (the exact point of which is not men- tioned), which led to the destruction of the dura mater and to an abscess of the brain, presented itself as the more probable starting- point. In many cases the thrombosis is confined to the lateral sinus, in others, and indeed in the majority, it extends further. Thrombus- formation is generally observed simultaneously in the internal jugu- lar vein, and sometimes extends to the opening into the subclavian vein, and in one case even reached the vena cava superior near the spot where it communicates with the right side of the heart. In a direction upwards, i. e. in an opposite direction to the current of the blood, thrombi are most frequently found in the superior petrosal sinus, where, however, they are generally not to be regarded as hav- ing extended from the lateral sinus, but as being produced by the same cause as those observed in the latter. Earely are thrombi found simultaneously in the lateral sinus of the other side, in the petrosal and cavernous sinus, and most rarely in the superior longi- tudinal sinus. In one case only is it mentioned that the thrombus had extended from the torcular Herophili into the extremity of the longitudinal sinus, and it appears rare to find the whole of the lateral sinus in a state of thrombosis as far as the torcular. As regards the nature of the thrombi, they were, in almost all the cases, in a state of 1 {Virchow’s Archiv,’ 9, 81. ? ‘Krankhafte Verschliessung der grosseren Venenstamme,5 ri8.