69 PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. larynx. We have (Fig. 28) a very large muriform polypus, which, taking its origin upon the right inferior vocal cord, is developed within and above the glottis. The left vocal cord is normal. Neverthe- less, we can perceive another similar polypus, but much smaller, arising from the posterior wall of the entrance to the larynx, corresponding to the side of the left arytenoid cartilage, and which yet more constricts the space for the passage of the air. The rough and resisting surface of these polypi IS of an epithelial character, covered with a yellowish mucus. The last seven or eight cases, and also the second, in which, for the first time, I believe, were diagnosed on the living, with pre- cision, the form and the seat of a pedunculated laryngeal polypus, of such a small size, may be regarded as new illustrations to add to those which have been collected by Middeldorpf.1 They also prove, in accordance with observations made by other phy- sicians ('Bib./ page 10), that these accidental productions in the larynx are much more frequent than has been supposed up to the present time. Case 20.-—Qfdema of the Glottis. J. 11—, aged 29 years, manufacturer of pipes, was discharged from the hospital a month ago, as convalescent from typhoid fever. O11 the 24th of October he was sent to me by Professor Balassa, because he had some difficulty of breathing. Inspiration was whistling and very difficult, expiration was easier; he suffered from uneasiness and a thirst for air.2 The laryngoscopic examination, nevertheless, completely succeeded with the aid of a tongue depressor. Fig. 29 illustrates the arrangement of the parts. The epiglottis, the aryteno-epiglottic ligaments, the superior and inferior vocal 1 * Galvano-caustik/ Breslau, 1854, chap. xi. 2 There exists in German an expression, with which the medical French lauguage is not as yet enriched, and which expresses in a striking manner the want which patients suffer; it is that of lufthunger, “ hunger for air,” and which we should propose to designate more exactly by ff thirst for ah”—Note of German Translator.