127 CEREBRAL SINUSES. process. On the 33d day severe rigors, followed by heat, pulse 113 ; on the following day, a return of the rigors, with symptoms of pneumonia on the left side. During the next few days all the symptoms abated somewhat; the sputa remained of a brownish- gray colour, and smelt very offensive. From the 39th day, great debility, typhous condition, enlargement of spleen, diarrhoea, delirium, involuntary evacuations, collapse, and jaundice. On the 45th day, the globe of the right eye was abnormally prominent and tense; pupil fixed, and moderately dilated; cornea dull; slight oedema of conjunctiva; complete loss of sight. On the following morning, a similar state of things in the left eye; the oedema of the conjunctiva increased, and spread to the orbital region and over the left temple, as far as the angle of the lower jaw. Death on the 46th day. Sectio. Skin of a dirty yellow colour; all the wounds on the head healed except the fourth, which is still partly open, with livid edges. At the root of the mastoid process there is a loss of substance the size of a bean in the cortical layer, leaving a ragged surface. This part of the surface of the bone is covered with gray pus and small granular exudation; the bone in the vicinity rough as far as the mastoid foramen, the opening of which is covered with a layer of similar exu- dation. Skull, dura and pia mater normal, and containing a moderate quantity of blood. Brain perfectly normal. Upon that portion of the dura mater covering the left middle cranial fossa and clivus a thin layer of exudation, the hypophysis surrounded by ill-conditioned pus; the left lateral sinus, the petrosal sinuses, the circular sinus, and both cavernous sinuses gorged with yellowish-white pus, ex- tending into the ophthalmic veins; the corresponding duplicate sinuses of the right side and both ophthalmic veins thrombosed, and only here and there containing thick pus. In the remaining sinuses, partly coagulated, partly fluid blood. Sloughing lobular pneumonia of both lungs; on the right side sanious pleurisy. Liver and spleen enlarged. Examination of the eyes showed complete thrombosis of the ophthalmic veins as far as the bulbs, without a trace of softening in the thrombi. Bitha attributes the phlebitis and thrombosis to the entrance of pus from the external wound of the head through the strikingly large mastoid foramen into the lateral sinus,—a view which I cannot adopt, because it is not proved that the entrance of pus into the