COLD IN SURGERY. 309 mation of the knee-joint supervened, for which now, five weeks after the occurrence of the accident, the patient came to our hospital. The knee was bent at a right angle, was much swollen, red, and fluctuating, and was extremely tender when touched, or when any attempt was made to stretch the limb. The patient was very feverish, his pulse being 144; he had 110 appetite and was very emaciated, in consequence of the pain which tortured him day and night. The limb was at once comfortably and securely placed on Heister's splint, two ice-bags were applied to the joint, and morphia was ordered. Trom this moment the symptoms of inflammation and fever diminished, and after four days the patient slept all the night through without the help of morphia. After cold had been used con- tinuously for seven weeks, calomel in small doses having been admi- nistered during the time, the patient was almost completely cured. There was no pain whatever in pressing and moving the joint, and the swelling was scarcely visible. But adhesions had formed, which prevented the limb from being completely extended. I was afraid to extend the limb forcibly, for fear of reviving the scarcely subdued in- flammatory process. The patient was therefore sent out of the hos- pital for a time with a starch bandage. A year afterwards he was put under the influence of chloroform, and I extended his limb with the best result. Case 8.—Inflammation of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis ; application of ice during four weeks.—M—, a woman, set. 40, had been delivered with great difficulty of a very large child six weeks previous to her admission into the hospital. Intense inflammation developed itself in the region of the right sacro-iliac synchondrosis. The part was distinctly swollen, and extremely tender on pressure from the outside as well as per vaginam. The patient was scarcely able to drag her- self along. In standing, the whole weight of the body rested on the left leg alone, the right half of the pelvis was drawn upwards, and the tip of the right foot scarcely touched the floor. Any attempt to put the foot to the ground was followed by the sharpest pain, and even when she was at perfect rest the pain was so great that it kept her awake all night. The patient had much fever and was very weak. On admission into the hospital she was at once placed comfortably on her left side, and a large ice-bag was applied to the painful part. In a few days the patient was essentially better, and slept well