154 ATROPHY OF THE It is very remarkable that, in cases of such considerable destruction of the brain, the paralysis on the opposite side is usually incomplete, being often combined with contraction of the flexors, particularly of the fingers or the forearm. In almost all cases the arm was more affected than the leg j1 yet perfect paralysis, and then only of the arm, appears to be of rare occurrence.2 In all the paralysis was combined with a greater or less degree of atrophy or emaciation, not only of the muscles, but also, as in my case, of the bones themselves, so that one or both extremities of one side appeared to be much shorter than those of the healthy side. Sometimes this was rendered less strik- ing, in consequence of an abundant production of fat in the affected part, which was, however, attended with atrophy of the bones or muscles.3 Sensation was less blunted, and usually appeared to be but little interfered with,4 even where the muscles had lost their power of action.6 Hence it would seem to follow, as can be proved by many other arguments, that the perception of feeling is situated, not in the brain, but in the medulla oblongata. But the atrophy occurring in a greater or less degree in one or both limbs is of great importance; Lallemand and several other writers are inclined to attribute this solely to want of exercise and motion ;6 Lallemand even states that left half of the brain was cut off from above towards the ear, and was covered with a flat bone, so that the size of the left hemisphere could certainly not amount to more than one third of that of the right; at the same time he had a tottering gait, without being paralysed. This boy, who at first appeared to be quite idiotic and incapable of learning or understanding anything, with a stupid appearance, had, under constant instruction, three years later grown into a strong lad, and his intellectual faculties were fully developed, while his brain was increasing in size, the left hemisphere, however, always continuing about one third less than the right. 1 Cazauvielh, in Nasse ‘Sammlung,5 1, c., p. 33. Lallemand, 1. c., p. 318. Romberg, 1. c., p. 843. 2 Lallemand, 1. c., obs. 26, 36, 38, 41. 3 Cazauvielh, in Nasse * Sammlung, 1. c., p. 33. Cazauvielh’s fourth case, of paralysis and atrophy of the same side as the atrophy of the cerebrum, at first sight appears very strange; as, however, there was a diseased part also in the right hemisphere, the above is easily explained, particularly as the affection of the left hemisphere was not very great. In this case we have also an excep- tional instance of a greater degree of paralysis and atrophy of the leg than of the arm (1. c., p. 16). 4 Romberg, 1. c., p. 843. 6 Lallemand, 1. c., p. 320. 6 Lallemand, 1. c., p. 326.