COLD IN SURGERY. 325 began to swell, and became so painful that the patient had to keep his bed. On the evening of the 21st the left ankle-joint be- came also affected. He then sent for me. I found him very feverish; and as he had no sufficient attendance at home, I made the proposal to take him into the hospital and to treat him by continuous abstraction of heat. It was a mild winter, and at first no ice could be procured; I was therefore compelled to apply cold compresses for the first twenty-four hours. They were agreeable to the patient, but the constant renewing of them irritated him so much that he could not sleep, although he had taken half a grain of morphia. The next morning the right ankle-joint and both shoulder-joints were tender, and the fever had increased ; I ordered him therefore some digitalis. In the afternoon some ice was procured, and ice-bags were at once placed on the most painful joints. The pain imme= diately diminished considerably, the fever abated, and the patient slept very well the following night. During the next few days most of the large joints were attacked in succession, whilst those previously affected became free. We applied ice-bags everywhere, so far as the small store of ice permitted. The patient felt the greatest relief from the treatment. He had, when quiet, no pain whatever, the pulse became less frequent every day, and on the 30th of January all his joints were free from pain and swelling. In some of them a little stiffness was still felt. I, of course, examined the heart several times daily, with great care. On the morning of the twenty-seventh of January I heard a slight systolic murmur at the apex, but it had completely disappeared by the afternoon. I have had, since this, several opportunities of treating similar cases in the same way, and have always had reason to be well satis- fied with the results. Several of my colleagues have experienced the same; and one of my pupils, Dr. Nissen, in Schonberg, who was assistant in the hospital when the above case occurred, has sent me the history of several cases which he himself has treated successfully in the same way. One of these cases seems to me to be especially fit for publication, because in the course of the disease the patient was attacked by pericarditis, which also was subdued by the use of cold. Case 18.—Acute rheumatism ; application of ice for twelve clays- A strong woman, set. 27, was attacked on the 19th of November,