48 LARYNGOSCOPE. These possessed almost their normal white colour, and, to my great surprise, showed a remarkable mobility. We observed particu- larly, during deep inspiration, or when the patient endeavoured to emit a sound, movements of the posterior portion, in which are placed the processes of the arytenoid cartilages. Nevertheless, it was not possible to close the glottis by the approximation of the edges of the vocal cords; these were invari- ably separated between the processes. I perceived, between the sepa- rated borders of the glottis, a superficial furrow formed by two cush- ions of mucous membrane, which were oblong and of a dark colour. The seat of the occlusion in the larynx was now recognised. It was found beneath the free edges of the true vocal cords, of which the superior lamella was normal; it was also the same in the other visible parts of the larynx, independently of slight swelling of the false vocal cords and very considerable enlargement of the arytenoid tubercles. In order the better to understand the nature and extent of the closure of the glottis, I entertained the idea of making use of the laryngoscope according to the mode of its employment by Dr. Neudoerfer upon the dead Bib./ No. 6), and which we ought to employ in all similar cases. It was requisite to introduce a small mirror through the artificial opening of the larynx, and also to examine this organ from below upwards. With that end, I had a canula made, somewhat curved, as large as possible, and of which the superior wall had a large opening; I then introduced it into the opening made by the operation, between the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. The patient breathed with this canula as freely as with the ordinary one. Afterwards I introduced a small metallic mirror, of which the surface was turned obliquely upwards and forwards, and placed it in such a manner that it partially occupied the opening in the superior wall of the canula, immediately beneath the inferior orifice of the larynx. The light of a lamp was now concentrated upon the laryngoscope by means of a small ophthalmoscopic mirror; the whole of the interior of the larynx, was strongly illuminated, and gave an image to the observer which was seen through the central opening in the ophthalmoscope. Bigure 14 explains the arrangement of the apparatus, and the course of the rays. We recognise, in the sketch of the neck and mouth, the representation of the fenestrated canula, which is pro-