ATROPHY OP THE 168 111 fact, it cannot be denied tliat tlie skull often appears to adapt itself to tlie sliape of the brain; my case affords a remarkable example of this. Thus, while the left side of the skull, so far as it covers the cerebrum, is increased in thickness, the reverse takes place beneath the tentorium, where the non-atrophied, sound hemisphere of the cerebellum is situated (Tig. I, n), here the left portion of the occipital bone is thinner, while tlie right, corresponding to the atro- phied hemisphere of the cerebellum (Tig. I, m) is thicker, that is, on the side opposite to the thickened part of the cerebral portion of the skull. In like manner, the left orbit (see Tig. I, a) is very convex and smooth, and has lost all the so-called impressiones digitatae and juga cerebralia, which on the opposite side (h) are very distinct and sharply defined.1 There can, however, be no doubt that these formerly existed here also, but that with the atrophy of the cerebral convolu- tions and of the brain itself they disappeared or ceased to grow, while the orbit became thicker and more convex. But what is the cause of this phenomenon, that the wall of the skull adapts itself to the brain, which the above does not explain ? This phenomenon, moreover, is not constant: why, then, do so many cases of atrophy of one half of the brain, or, indeed, of both sides of the organ, occur, in which the skull was not thickened, but the space was filled with serum ? It is indeed true that in atrophy of the eye the socket con- tracts ; in dislocation of the femur out of the acetabulum the latter diminishes in size. Although I am not yet able to give any correct explanation of these singular changes in the bone, I suspect that different matters have been confounded. Wherever I found a skull increased in thickness the dura mater was very firmly adherent to it, and exhibited evident marks of chronic irritation, or, indeed, of 97 et seq. ‘Anatom, et Physiol, du Systeme nerveux/ tome iii, p. 3G, pi. liii. 1 Gall also represents the same in his plate liii, where the orbit is evidently more convex on the atrophied side; the cranium is also thicker on the atrophied side, but the difference is not so great as in my specimen. But the petrous bone, too, appears arched, and a deep groove for the blood-vessel is likewise represented, as in my example for the arteria meningea media (see my Pig. I, letter o). The increased thickness, too, of the wing of the sphenoid bone, marked by me c, occurs in Gall’s plate, but it is to be regretted that this drawing is little more than outline. However, this skull quite agrees in details with that in my ease, though the several points are less strongly marked *