23 EXAMINATION MADE UPON OTHERS. light is made use of, the lamp is placed at the corner of a table, to the right of the patient, in such a manner that the flame is found to be at the same height as the mouth—a little behind the right half of his face. The person examined places his hands upon his knees, the upper part of the body is advanced forwards, the neck bent onward, the nape slightly inclined backwards, the mouth widely open, the tongue flattened and held a little without. The observer is seated in front of the person to be examined; he places in his mouth the handle which supports the illuminating mirror, and looks through the central opening; the laryngeal mirror, introduced into the back part of the mouth with the right hand, is illuminated by the light which is projected from the illu- minating mirror; the left hand can be placed upon the shoulder of the person examined, and steadies the chin and the nape, or in holding a tongue depressor, which we can often trust to the patient himself. In the first place, the illumination of the back part of the mouth and the mutual position are regulated; then the laryngoscope is heated, and its temperature regulated by the touch. After these preliminaries are gone through, we request the patient to open the mouth wide, and alternately to inspire deeply and to pronounce the sound ah ; during this, we endeavour to place the back of the laryngoscope against the uvula and the velum palati, to sustain these parts a little, and to give to the mirror a convenient incli- nation ; at times it is impossible to avoid touching the posterior wall of the pharynx; the examination is directed by the image we thus obtain (see p. 22). In this way we can commence each laryngoscopic examination. Practice and reflection will bring each observer to comprehend the modifications to which he ought to submit this proceeding, according to the special circumstance; whether, for instance, he is in some degree to advance or to withdraw the laryngoscope, to bend it, to lower or to elevate it, to change the position and attitude of the individual undergoing examination, raise his chair, &c. We would advise those who wish to learn the laryngoscopic method, and who already possess a knowledge of anatomy and physics, to obtain a preliminary acquaintance with it, by exercising v with the laryngoscope, according to the recommendation of Dr. Turck ('Bib./ No. 5), upon the dead body or upon the larynx which