142 ATROPHY OF THE It is very remarkable that in the lower and further removed * trunks of the nerves this attenuation on the paralysed side did not appear to exist; on the contrary, some thickening seemed again to be present in these parts, at least according to accurate measurements of the fresh nervus medianus of the arm, taken with reference to this point by my esteemed friend. Professor Harting. Thus, the diameter of the nervus medianus at the bend of the elbow was as follows : On the left or sound side. Diameter of the nerve . . 3 6 mm. Primitive tubes . from 8 to 21 *7 mmm. Average diameter in fifteen measurements .... 15 mmm. On the right or atrophied side. 3*7 mm. 8-2 to 22-4 mmm.1 15-5 mmm. In this part of the nerve, however, the motor fibres were still commingled with the sensory. But a branch of the nervus medianus from the middle finger, which consequently contained only sensory, and at the same time perhaps vegetative, filaments, furnished primi- tive tubes of the following thickness: On the left or sound side. On the right or atrophied side. Diameter of the primitive tubes . . from in to 21 ‘4 mmm. from ii*6 to 21‘8 mmm. Average diameter in five mea- surements I5'8 mmm. 15*4 mmm. Hence it would appear that among the sensory filaments on the sound side there were more thick primitive filaments than on the atrophied side, but the number of measurements is, perhaps, too small to justify the deduction of any definite inference. By other writers, too, mention is made of a thickening of the nerve-trunks on the paralysed side, which is probably produced by degeneration of the neurilema, and perhaps -by the deposition of fat between the nerve-tubes. These nerves were more yellow, of which Lallemand brings forward three different cases.2 In one case the nerves were thickened and red.3 Tab. xiv.) I have not been able to find any other examples of obliquity of the pelvis in unilateral atrophy of the brain, in consequence of the attention of authors not having been directed to this point. 1 [The reader will please observe that the letters mmm. signify the millionth part of the metre, or the thousandth part of the millimetre. This unit is usually employed by writers on physical optics, and in designating microscopic measurements. —Translator.] 2 ‘Hecherckes anatomico-pathologiques sur l’Encephale/ Lett. 8, Nos. 27, 36, 43- 3 Lallemand, 1. c., No. 49; at page 358 the author promises to return to