ARITHMETIC MEANS. 219 circumstances we shall, even in this case, be able to limit still further the range of error. In the succeeding paragraph I shall show that some series of observations proceed in evident and somewhat fixed periods of two days. If this fact should be established as generally correct, we might then take the observations in pairs, and estimate the mean fluctuation from the obviously lesser fluctuations in the Means of the numbers so paired. In reference to this point, the rule to be observed for future investigations would be, on each occasion, to place the observations in a straight and unbroken line, one after another. What has hitherto been said with reference to the periodic fluc- tuations dependent on natural causes is only applicable when the days on which the observations are made follow immediately upon one another. If this should not be the case, as might be expected, a reduction of the limits obtained from the mean fluctuation will no more be permissible. Finally, it should be thoroughly recognised that the treatment of the incomplete series of observations in the same way as complete ones is only a makeshift, and therefore the conclusion, when the mean differences do not considerably exceed the sums of the un- certainties, must be considered only as of imperfect accuracy, until other researches, instituted for the same object, shall have exhibited a conformable and corroborative result. It is unnecessary to mention that corroborative observations should not be instituted under precisely the same circumstances as their predecessors; that rather, on the other hand, the result is the more decisive the more indepen- dent it appears to be of the varying conditions which are associated with the experiments. Section X.-—Examination of certain definite series of Observations. Proceeding, by way of conclusion, to examine some published series of researches, our object is—istly, to point out the impropriety of swerving from the exactitude of proceeding recommended above; 2dly, to illustrate the preceding method by actually existing cases; and, 3dly, to draw attention to the course of the fluc- tuations in carefully undertaken series of observations, so as, if possible, to get some hints for the institution and utilization of subsequent researches.