267 ARITHMETIC MEANS. daily in researches of the kind now under consideration, indicate an investigation of at least six days as desirable, hut not of any greater length, and, certainly, not so when the experiments are made on one’s own person; in which case the sources of error above referred to arise. But, in special cases, and under certain circumstances, I think that we .may rest satisfied with investigations of four days. Thus, when Professor Radicke speaks of certain mean values obtained from four days’ observations in my researches on bathing in the North Sea, as entirely inadmissible, he would have been quite right if the numbers I obtained from these four days’ observations had been the first which I had obtained from researches on my own person. I had, however, already instituted a considerable number of similar observations on my own body, and am always in a position to decide, after four days’ observation on a new subject, whether notable or real changes have occurred in my organism. Whether this fact will justify conclusions being credited from me which one would hardly admit from a tyro, I must leave to the judgment of others. It goes, however, as hardly with the labours of others as with my own, before Professor Radicke’s seat of judgment, and Kaupp receives a reprimand which Professor Vierordt at once dismisses as little deserved. Are we, then, in each of our small papers, or monographs, in each individual undertaking, to make an exposition anew of our general knowledge on the subject under investigation; and are we, above all, to append to each number and expression the whole cargo of references which can by any means be dragged in with it ? In scientific matters, in addition to mathe- matical proofs of a fact, there is a certain amount of confidence exhibited towards the person who affirms the fact: if this latter be wanting, all numbers which may be adduced in support of physiolo- gico-chemical facts will appear questionable, and all the mathematical corroboration which may be given to them will not make them less so: if it be present, we shall credit the investigator with having exercised due supervision over his numbers, and the days on which his observations have been made, before he founded an opinion or hypothesis upon them. The numbers in which the results of our researches are expressed, moreover, carry with them, intrinsically, more or less of our confidence, in proportion as they agree or not with general physiological or medical experience. If such an agree- ment be wanting, both experimenter and critic will alike, and with justice, feel great doubt with regard to the results obtained; they will be still more desirous of repeating the experiments; and not even the