162 ATROPHY OP THE tation of a nerve of the salivary glands, therefore of a sensitive nerve, which contains vegetative filaments, the secretion in the gland is very considerably increased, without the pressure of the blood in the blood-vessels being at the same time and proportionately augmented ;T whence it would seem that here a force is in operation very similar to galvanism, by which, too, currents of endosmose and exosmose are so much promoted. But it may be objected to these arguments that, in my case, there was no independent atrophy of the nerve-ganglia, the latter only participating in the atrophy of the spinal cord, and that therefore the atrophy of the ganglia was probably the result of the earlier affection. It is precisely in reference to this remark that I think this case of especial importance; it, in fact, shows clearly that, as in our body all is united and combined into a whole, we should err in this instance also were we theoretically to separate parts which in nature are closely connected and capable of acting on one another. I have above adduced sufficient reasons for believing that the ganglia of the spinal nerves exercise an important influence upon nutrition and vegetative life; but that they also are again more or less dependent on the spinal cord, and are capable of receiving from it stimuli to action, is proved by this very case, where the unilateral atrophy of the spinal cord produced atrophy and diminution of action in these ganglia. But that these ganglia are not exclusively dependent on the spinal cord, but possess an activity of their own, is, in my opinion, clearly established, not only by the facts above adduced, but also by the so-called anencephali, where either the brain alone or 1 Ludwig, “Neue Versuche liber Beihiilfe der Nerveu zu der Speichel- secretion,” in ‘ Mittlieilungen der Zurich. Naturf. Gesellschaft,’ No- 50, p. 27. It is well known that in this case the blood-vessels are dilated, and, in conse- quence of the acceleration of the current, the blood even passes in the arterial state into the veins, as Bernard has proved (‘Comptes rendus,’ 1858, Aout, p. 245). The same was the case with the kidneys after irritation of the vagus subsequently to its transit through the diaphragm (Schmidt’s ‘ Jahrbiicher,’ 1859, No. 10, p. 1). Bor these reasons I suspect that there are two sorts of vegetative nerves—the known sympathetic filaments, which accompany the vessels, and whose function is to constrict the vessels, and others which, like the chorda tympani in the salivary glands, and the filaments of the nervus vagus in the kidneys, are dis- tributed more in the parenchyma, and the irritation of which produces an augmented current of blood and effusion; these last must therefore play an important part in the theory of inflammation, where the explanation of the dila- tation of the vessels presents so many difficulties.