THROMBOSIS OF THE 90 suppuration, frequently also mixed with pseudo-membranous clots and fresh coagula of blood. The inner coat of the sinus is fre- quently reported to have been thickened, or covered with flat coa- gula. In four cases only had the thrombi not yet reached the suppurative stage; thus, in a case of Puchelt’s,1 in which only two valve-like clots were found, which almost entirely obstructed the sinus; further, in a case by Abercrombie,2 and in one by Bruce,3 in which the walls of the sinuses were mentioned as thickened and changed, and the canals filled with clots similar to those found in aneurisms. Lastly, Heusinger4 relates a very interesting case, in which a firm thrombus completely filled the lateral sinus, and the dura mater was perforated at a point in the sinus corresponding to the posterior part of the petrous bone. To the extent of half an inch in length, the inner coat of the sinus was entirely destroyed at this point, and ragged granulations enveloped in pus, sprouting out towards the carious depression in the petrous bone, completely filled the canal. At the same point there was also a communication of the carious petrous bone with an abscess of the right cerebellum. This case is worthy of notice, in as much as the nature of the throm- bus shows us that its production could not have depended upon the introduction of pus following rupture of the walls of the sinus, in which case haemorrhage must necessarily have ensued. Besides this case, three others are met with in which mention is made of a perforation of the walls of the sinus, and of a communication with the carious portion of the petrous bone, admitting of the intravasa- tion of pus into the sinus from without. But in the other cases the thrombus was already in a state of suppuration; thus, in Hooper’s,5 in which both lateral sinuses were filled with pus and covered by false membranes; further, in Bruce’s,6 in which the posterior part of the right petrous bone was carious and perforated at one point, and the walls of the sinus corroded; and lastly, in a case taken from the f London Medical and Surgical Journal,’7 in 1 * Venensystem,’ 2, 177. 2 ‘Die Krankheiten des Gehirns und Riickenmarks.’ Deutsch von v. d. Busch, 49. 3 ‘London Med. Gaz./ 1841. Lebert, loc. citat., 420. 4 ‘Virchow’s Archiv,’ xi, 92. 5 * Morbid Anatomy of the Brain,’ Cruveilhier, vol. viii, pi. 4, p. 3. Remark. 6 Lebert, loc. citat., 419. 7 Vol. v, 679. Lebert, loc. citat., 421.