212 THE IMPORTANCE OF ferred in the case of incomplete series, I shall here describe it, only presuming that the series to which we are applying it are complete. But it must be noted that the justification of this presumption, as a rule, is only to be obtained by proving the Successive Means. Let M' and N be the Arithmetic Means of A and B; in obtaining which we take not only the certain figures, as before, but two or three of the uncertain ones. We then evolve the Quadratic Means from the divergencies of the observations of the series A and B from M' and N' respectively, i. e. from the fluctuations of the observa- tions about these two mean numbers. If the fluctuations in the observations arose from errors, then, in accordance with the defini- tion in Section Y, b} the Quadratic Means wrould represent the mean errors of A and B. But as they depend, for the most part, upon the inequality of daily influences, I shall call the Quadratic Means, which we will suppose to be respectively ju and v, not the Mean Errors, but the mean fluctuations; and, in like manner, the ana- logue of the probable error, the probable fluctuation. Now, since, according to Section Y, c, the Mean Errors are greater than the probable ones, and also the mean fluctuations greater than the probable ones, we shall be justified in assuming that, by an increase of the number of observations, the subsequently determined numbers will more frequently fall between M'—/x and M' + fx (or N'—v and N'+v) than without those limits. And, as a consequence, we shall consider it more probable that if we protracted the investigation with the view of obtaining more accurate and certain results, the certain Means would lie between M'—jx and M' + ju (or N'—v and N' + v) than the reverse. Hence, by proceeding in a similar course to the one observed above, the rule which we should establish is the following : the employment of the supplementary agency would have probably produced an increase (in the excretions) if M'—N' >11 + v; a diminution, if N'—M' >/x + v; and that its operation was unde- termined if the difference between the Means M' and N' did not exceed the sum of the mean fluctuations. Section YIII.—On incomplete series of Observations. The determinations of the previous paragraph require that the series of observations shall be complete, i. e. that they shall extend far enough to allow the inequalities in the Arithmetic Means to compensate one another, which, as we know, may be recognised by