COLD IN SURGERY. 301 perseveringly than in the Gros-Caillou. The smashed legs rested on splints placed on oil-cloth, and were surrounded and covered by large, wet sponges, which were often renewed. In other cases affu- sion was made use of by means of small glass siphons. Ice was not employed at all. The other parts of the surgical treatment of the wounds, such as examining and bandaging, was done, on the whole, more judiciously and carefully than in the Gros-Caillou. In some cases the patients were extensively bled. In a case of a perforating wound of the chest, for instance, besides a deal of cupping, the man was bled freely ten times. In the fifth week I found him quite well, and his wound completely healed. Many dangerous cases were cured also in this hospital, although much more slowly than in the Gros- Caillou, and I had occasion to observe more frequently abscesses, infiltrations, and other ill effects of gunshot fractures, so that the bistoury had to be used oftener than at the other place. A very different appearance from that of the wounded in the military infirmaries was presented by those in the civil hospitals. In one of the wards of the Charite there were about twenty wounded (some only slightly injured), who were all treated from the first by warm cataplasms. I saw them on the fifth day, and found all of them looking very ill, their wounds secreting bad pus, and presenting cedematous or purulent infiltration in the neighbourhood. During the following few days several of the patients died in consequence of pysemia, and a splendid lecture, given by the clinical director of the ward, on the excellency of warm cataplasms in the treatment of recent injuries, could not shake my opinion that these very cataplasms were partly to be blamed for the bad state of the wounds; although I must confess that a part of the blame was due certainly to the assistants, to whose care these cases were entirely intrusted, and who before the going round of the surgeon busied themselves with syringe and sponge and with squeezing out the contents of the sinuses, thus, according to their fashion, cleansing the wounds. In M. Roux's wards in the Hotel-Dieu the wounds presented a much better appearance than those in the Charite, although he also is a decided adversary of cold, and in many cases applies from the first warm poultices; but his other treatment was much more careful. He with his own hands put the bandages on in a most skilful way, and united the edges of the wounds with the greatest care. Nevertheless, the state of his patients and the course their wounds took could by no means compete with those in the Gros-