THROMBOSIS OF THE 116 In all these cases it is distinctly mentioned that a state of chronic debility existed (les enfants etaient mines par des affections chroniques); a large number of them were tuberculous, others rachitic, and others again so debilitated by acute diseases that their very convalescence had the appearance of a second disease. The origin of the thrombosis in marasmus in these cases thus appears established beyond doubt. The small power of the circulation and respiration in childhood, and the more frequent occurrence of caries of the bones of the skull in adults, sufficiently account for this fact. A further circumstance well worth remarking in reference to the setiology of the cases given in the second series presents itself in the fact, that in a comparatively large number of them obstruc- tions of the respiration were observed which must have prevented the right side of the heart from emptying itself properly, and re- tarded the current of the blood in the veins of the neck and sinuses. Triedreich1 has already called attention to this fact when speaking of Gerhardt's cases, and insisted upon its importance as a further cause of retardation of the current of the blood. Independently of the feebleness of the muscles of respiration in childhood, which im- pedes the flow of blood to the chest, we find in ten out of our sixteen cases special impediments mentioned, consisting in affections of the organs of respiration, such as lobar and lobular pneumonia (in children), with extensive atelectasis of the lungs, chronic pleuritic exudation with contraction of the chest, and plugs in the pulmonary arteries with oedema of the lungs in case 42. In this case it may, indeed, be doubted whether these plugs are not to be regarded as a Children under 1 year . . *5 „ of 2, 4, and 5 years . . 3 „ of 12—14 years . 2 „ of 20 and 23 years . . 2 An adult . . . .1 A man set. 53 . . .1 An aged woman . . . . 1 A woman set. 80 . . . .1 Thus 10 cases occurred during childhood, 4 during the middle period of life, and 2 in old age. Of 28 cases of thrombosis of the sinuses in consequence of processes of in- flammation, in which the age is stated, 6 occurred before the fourteenth year, of which only one occurred in the first year of life; and 22 after the fourteenth year, of which not one occurred later than the fifty-fourth year of life. 1 Canstatt, * Jahresbericht ’ pro 1857, i'b P- 223*