COLD IN SURGERY. 327 blister was applied. On the 13th, the patient left her bed; but as some fluctuating swelling appeared in the left knee-joint, she was sent to bed again, and a blister was put on the part. On the 18th, the exudation in the knee had completely disappeared. On listening to the heart, a slight friction-sound was still heard; and another blister was therefore applied. On the 30th of December, no trace of the affection could be detected either in the joints or in the heart. A case of acute rheumatism which occurred in this hospital, whilst I was away in the Easter holy days of this year, was treated by my assistant. Dr. Meyer, with great perseverance, and ran a remarkably rapid and favorable course. Case 19.—Acute rheumatism ; application of ice for seven days.— T.S—, a powerful man-servant, set. 27, was taken into the hospital on the 15th of April, for inflammation of both knee-joints. The man had had, eight days previously, a fall from a horse, and both knee- joints were in consequence contused; but he had been able to do his work up to the day previous to his admission, when severe pain and swelling of the affected joints compelled him to keep his bed. Both joints were found much distended by fluid. The right knee mea- sured thirty-eight centimeters in circumference, the left thirty-nine. The skin over them was not red, but its temperature was consi- derably increased. The patient complained of violent pain, which became still more violent on pressure or motion. He was very feverish, the pulse being 140; extremely thirsty, had no appetite, and his bowels had not been opened for three days. The patient was at once put to bed; both legs were placed in a raised position on HeisteEs splint; four leeches were applied to each knee, and after the bleeding had been kept up for some time, two ice-bags were put on. He was ordered a strong saline draught, in consequence of which his bowels were well opened during the night. On the fol- lowing day the pain had considerably diminished, the pulse was only 104; but the patient still complained of unquenchable thirst, and was therefore ordered phosphoric acid for drink. The inflammation of the knee-joints was, most probably, not the effect of the contusion merely, but was due in part to the supervention of rheumatism; for during the following night severe rheumatic fever suddenly set in, attended by swelling of several joints and violent palpitation of the 21