209 ARITHMETIC MEANS. certain on the condition that the smallest value which the former can possibly have is greater than the greatest value which the second can possibly have, i. e. we must compare 24.14—.1J, or 23.97, with 23.38+ .21, or 23.59; or, in other words, the difference of the Arithmetic Means 24.14— 23.38 must exceed the sum of the uncertainties of these Means, viz., .17+ .21. If the measurements were inexact, as in the case above given, and the limit of error of measurement (previously indicated by a) about .2, then the sum of the uncertainties of the agency under esti- mation would be increased by the sum of the uncertainties of the mea- surements, viz., 2 a ; i. e. in order to justify a conclusion of increase of excretion, it would be necessary that the difference of the mean numbers 24.14 and 23.38, extracted, as directed, from the succes- sive Means, should exceed the sum of all the uncertainties, i. e. j3'+j3 + 2a (here .78). Where the observations are sufficiently numerous, the special increase necessitated by the errors of obser- vation is not required. But since in practice the observations of which we avail ourselves are not free from error, and we are obliged to undertake the supposed operations with the uncorrected figures, the resulting uncertainties (indicated by j3' and j3) will not only include within themselves those dependent on the errors of observa- tion, but also those caused by the inequality of the daily influences, so that the actual j3 + fi' contains, in addition to the theoretical /3 4- j3', the necessary increase. Moreover, with regard to atmospheric influences, these will also partially establish an equilibrium amongst themselves in extended periods of time, though they will remain in some respects irregu- lar ; the result of which will be that the quantities above indicated hyp andj/ will not approximate any further to a constant limit with the protraction of the investigation. Therefore, where the differences between the two mean quantities to be compared are slight, the certainty of the process of comparison above described will be more or less diminished in proportion as we have reason to attribute greater or less influence to the atmospheric influences. It would only be possible to make a correction for these disturbances in the process, if we could, by means of specially instituted researches, acquire a more exact knowledge of the influences themselves. Where the difference between the mean quantities is considerable, the correction is superfluous; and where it is small, we must be content with previously laying the periods of observation of A and B