LARYNGOSCOPE. 4 Afterwards, on April 29th, 1858, I presented to the Imperial Academy of Sciences of Vienna ('Bibliography/ No. 3), my out even recognising the importance of the method which he had not made any real application of. As to his later and more successful experiments, he would not have performed them, were it not for the impulse which I had given to the whole subject. That such is the fad, any person may convince himself by a close examina- tion of the contents and date of our published results, in which it will be seen, that invariably his publications follow my own (see ‘Bibliography’). Also by a glance at the two following letters from Professor Bruecke, of Vienna. In these letters addressed to me, Professor Bruecke thus expresses himself: “ My honorable Friend, “ I confirm what you have stated, that Dr. Turck having communicated to me his first researches on the laryngoscope, I subsequently inquired if he con- tinued them, and I requested him not to abandon them. “ After such a length of time, I cannot remember if that took place once or twice. I cannot even state exactly the reply of Dr. Turck, but I was under the impression that he had abandoned the question; he 'positively communicated to me no further results. “Whilst very much regretting to see a discussion continued between two learned men whom I esteem in a very high degree, I authorise you, being the party assailed, to make whatever use of this letter you may consider convenient, if you believe it necessary to establish your rights. “Yours, (Signed) “E. Bruecke. “Vienna, Nov. 13th, 1859.” “ Dear Friend, “A few days ago Dr. Turck visited me respecting the letter which you published, and requested a declaration from me, to the effect that I had not encouraged him to employ the laryngoscope for 'practical purposes. “ I gave him the following written declaration, made according to the best of my recollection: ‘ I11 reference to my letter published by Professor Czermak (‘ Du Laryngoscope et de son emploi en physiologie et en medecine,’ Paris, J. B. Bailliere, i860, p. 106) you wished me to declare, that I had not en- couraged you to employ the laryngoscope for practical purposes, the following is my reply. My request to you, not to lay aside the laryngoscope, as near as I can recollect, was meant quite generally, without any special hint;—practical use, diagnosis, etc. etc., were altogether out of the question. “tDr. Turck thought he could remember having answered me to the effect that, as he knew Garcia’s work, experiments made on healthy persons had not any further interest for him, but that he was engaged in its application for the purpose of diagnosis. “ This I was compelled to deny most emphatically, because I should most assuredly have remembered such a distinction having been made between