ARITHMETIC MEANS. * 199 In so doing, however, we presume that by a further continuance of the observations no greater divergence is exhibited by the succes- sive Means than has hitherto occurred, which, when we consider the small fluctuations in the decimals of the above eleven figures, is sufficiently improbable to justify our taking .3 as the maximum of uncertainty. The rule to be observed in such cases as this is as follows : The mean number of which we are in search is to be extracted from the figures which a reference to the Successive Means indicates as certain ; we then take as our next figure the Arithmetic Mean of the first series of uncertain figures, employing as many of the last successive means for this purpose as the nature of the case may lead us to consider advisable. The measure of uncertainty will then consist in the greatest di- vergence exhibited by the figures of the series from the mean number obtained as above. The method just indicated for forming an estimate of the accuracy of the Mean, and which T have denominated “ the Method of Suc- cessive Means,” has not, so far as I am aware, been anywhere pre- viously exhibited or applied; yet it offers, provided the numbers employed are sufficiently numerous, in all cases the most exact result. It will be seen in the sequel of how many applications, to which we could not by any other expedient have recourse, the process of suc- cessive means is capable. (b) Estimation of the accuracy of observations by the aid of the “ Mean Error f—It has been before remarked that the presumption is, that every observation is tainted by a certain error. The extent of this error, and consequently the real value of the quantity de- termined, will always remain unknown; and if we take this error into estimation according to the rule of probabilities, what we must consider it to represent is, not the divergence of the observations from the real, but only from the probable value sought for—in our case, that is, from the Arithmetic Mean. This error is stated as positive or negative, according as the value of the observation in question is greater or less than that of the general Mean. It is obvious that the smaller these errors are, the better will the observa- tions be; and hence we are justified in estimating the value of a series of observations by the magnitude of its errors. To take the greatest error as our standard would be too one-sided; just as it would be to confine ourselves to taking only the largest and the 13