25 RHINOSCOPY. This preparation of the patient necessarily retards the examination, but this is not an inconvenience in chronic cases. We have like- wise recommended the practice of autolaryngoscopy with advantage to intelligent patients, especially in chronic cases, where repeated observations are necessary. But all these proceedings become impossible under the unfavorable circumstances previously enumerated, in acute affections, where we cannot afford the time necessary for the preparation of the patient. Nevertheless, this inconvenience diminishes nothing of the incon- testable value and practical importance of the larvngoscopic method, in the eyes of persons who know and are able to appreciate it. Every method has its limits. Section V.—Of Rhinoscopy. I have already pointed out, in my first notice of the laryngoscope f* Bib./ No. i), that the principle of the laryngoscopic method could be equally applied to the inspection of the posterior wall of the velum palati, of the superior parts of the pharynx (pharyngo-nasal vault), and of the posterior orifices of the nasal fossae, &e. If I now again dwell upon this subject, I do so for the purpose of citing a novel instance of the varied application of the principle of Liston and Garcia; I do so likewise to invite physicians, who specially study these regions, to apply and to improve my method, which I have called rhinoscopy, as it actually allows us to see these parts; as well as to explain the experiments which I have performed upon myself, and some more recent observations which I have made upon the dead and upon patients. My first attempts date from the winter of 1857-8, and were made upon myself. In the first place, I arranged my autolaryngoscopic apparatus as for the inspection of the larynx; then I elevated the velum palati above and in front, voluntarily relaxed, by the aid of a blunt and flat hook. A small laryngeal mirror, previously warmed, was subsequently introduced under the velum, having its surface turned obliquely upwards, in such a manner as to illuminate the pharyngo-nasal cavity, and to send back the image of these parts.