THROMBOSIS OF THE 114 somewhat oedematous; spleen small. Lithic acid infarcta in kidneys. Catarrh of intestinal canal. The mode of origin of thrombi and the - interpretation of the symptoms observed during life are very plausibly given in the excellent treatise of Gerhardt, which has., on the whole, my full con- currence. The profuse fluid discharges resulting from diarrhoea and cholera in infants necessarily diminish the quantity of the blood, and produce inspissation of it. Absorption of the parenchymatous fluid of the organs first occurs, especially in the very watery brain of the infant. The consequence of this is diminished volume of the con- tents of the skull, whereby the atmospheric pressure causes, first, depression of the fontanelles, and afterwards, when this no longer suffices, overlapping at the sutures. If this compensation also prove insufficient, a distension of the vessels of the brain and sinuses occurs, and the diminution of the general mass of the blood, the lowering of the power of the heart, and the inspissation of the blood retard the current, and lead to the formation of thrombus in a locality so favorable as the sinuses of the brain. The unequal filling of the jugular veins is a natural consequence of thrombosis of the lateral sinus on one side, inasmuch as the vein, the sinus supplying which is stopped, will be least full. This phenomenon, which must be most strongly marked in the deep-lying internal jugular vein, also shows itself by a circuitous route in the external jugular of the same side. With this species of thrombosis of the sinus from marasmus may doubtless be associated the case given in the beginning of this paper. There also the extensive discharging abscess in the subcu- taneous cellular tissue produced a profuse loss of fluids, and there also the subject is an infant, the impaired power of whose heart no longer sufficed to propel the diminished quantity of thickened blood through the sinuses of the dura mater with such rapidity as to prevent its spontaneous coagulation. Trom the more advanced con- solidation of the bones of the skull, and the limitation of the thrombus to the superior longitudinal sinus, there could naturally be no overlapping of the bones nor an unequal filling of the jugular veins observed. The only phenomenon during life attributable to the obstruction of the superior longitudinal sinus is the cpistaxis which occurred shortly before death. It appears to have resulted from the impediment to the flow of blood in those veins of the nose which pour their blood into the superior longitudinal sinus through