216 THE IMPORTANCE OF direction, as in opposition to one another, i. e. they may just as readily cause an increase as a diminution of the general disturbance. Let us further suppose, as before, that we have to do with a single- disturbing agency, but that, instead of operating at the commence- ment, it acts at the end of the period of observation. Lor the sake of better comparison, let us again take a period of ten days, with the same disturbance, giving a series of i, i, i, i, i, i, 3, 7, 9, 3. The Successive Means will then be 1,1, 1, 1, 1, 1, if, 2, 3. As is natural, although in this case the last Mean (that of the tenth day) is the same as in the first case, the series is a much more favorable one for definite application, since the fluctuations between the Suc- cessive Means are much smaller, and consequently the approximation of most of the latter ones gives a much more accurate result than in the case where the disturbance lay at the commencement. (c) Let us lastly consider the case with which we shall in practice have mostly to deal, viz., that where, in addition to periodically acting agencies, irregular disturbing causes come into play. It is clear that if the interval of observation exceeds by much one or more of the periods, the portion of the fluctuations corresponding to it will, to a greater or less extent, have exhausted its intensity upon the last of the Successive Means, whilst the part which corresponds to the longer periods, and to the irregular disturbances, may possibly remain partially or entirely uncompensated. The degree of approxi- mation of the Arithmetic Mean to the value which we should expect to be developed by the investigation will, therefore, depend upon the relation of the disturbing causes to one another and to the periods, and we shall only be able to estimate it with the certainty indicated in case a, when the shorter periods are sufficiently extensive. We can only positively recognise the existence of a period, if its extent is very considerable and its length is much exceeded by that of the period of observation, by direct comparison of the observations in general. O11 the other side, an excessively irregular disturbance, which only extends over a small part of the period of observation, may be generally recognised by taking the Successive Means in two ways—first, from the first observation to the last; and secondly, from the last to the first; and by then noticing whether, in either of the two series of numbers thus obtained, the last half exhibits greater fluctuations than the first.