320 ON THE USE OF the globe had collapsed. In the cornea there was found an opening of the size of a hemp-seed. The conjunctiva and the eyelids were enormously swollen. The patient complained of violent pain in the eye; his pulse was 64. Blood still oozed from many of the openings. A quarter of a grain of morphia was ordered, an ice- bag was placed on the eye, and another one on the cheek. The con- junctiva of the right eye was hypersemic, and the eye was intolerant of light. This was caused by some grains of powder having entered the conjunctiva on both sides of the cornea. They were at once removed with a couching-needle. On the next day the swelling had spread from the cheek over the neck and breast; the swelling of the lids prevented the left eye from being opened. The lids of the right eye had become oedematous, and an ice-bag was therefore placed on them also. During the next few days the swelling diminished rapidly under the continuous application of ice. On the 31st of October the right eye was found quite free from swelling. The ice was then discontinued. The patient was able now to open his left eye, but he could not see out of it. The anterior chamber was completely filled with blood, so as to prevent the iris from being seen. There was a whitish exudation on the opening in the cornea. The other wounds had begun to suppurate. The patient was very thirsty, had no appetite, but was free from pain. On the 2d of No- vember the left eye became painful. The globe was much swollen, and protruded from between the lids. It was scarified with the scissors, and the swelling and the pain diminished in consequence. On the evening of the 4th of November the lower part of the cheek was considerably swollen. The swelling was hard, and on pressure matter oozed out of all the wounds. Probably the inflam- mation had spread over the parotis, which had most likely been wounded by some of the shot. The pus which came out of several of the openings was very watery, being, no doubt, mixed with saliva. Some of the fistulse were now made wider, and a warm cataplasm was applied to the cheek, under which treatment the swelling soon began to diminish. During the whole of this time the ice-bag remained on the eye, and if any attempt was made to remove it the patient at once felt increased heat and pain, but the eye was quite painless as long as the ice was upon it. The patient left his bed on the 14th of November. The swelling of the cheek had much decreased, and there was also much less suppuration. The warm cataplasm was left off. On the 19th of November most of