COLD IN SURGERY. 315 at the beginning taken for tumours of the glands, and were treated by various domestic remedies. But as they did not diminish, and as the pain in the back increased, the patient came at last to the hospital for relief. At the time of his admission he presented so healthy an aspect that one would scarcely have suspected that he was labouring under so severe a disease. In his left groin, just belowr PouparBs ligament, and to the outer side of the femoral artery, there was an oval, tense, and distinctly fluctuating swelling, of the size of an egg. It was not tender to the touch, and was covered by normal skin, which was nether red nor hot. There was another swelling just above PouparPs ligament, and situated somewhat more outwardly than the first, towards the anterior superior spine of the ilium. It was more rounded and somewhat smaller and softer than the other, but very similar in appearance to it. The fluid contents of the lower swelling admitted of being squeezed by slow pressure into the upper one, which, in consequence, became larger and tenser. It was then possible to push the finger into the circular opening existing in the fascia lata, just below PouparPs ligament. It was evident that this was a psoas abscess, in communication with the diseased vertebral column. In the region of the lower dorsal vertebrae there was an angular curvature, which formed an angle of about 1550. The prominent spinous processes were somewhat tender on pressure, and blows on the head or hip produced pain. The patient kept his bed for four weeks, lying continuously on his back, and during the whole time ice-bags were applied to the vertebral column as well as to the abscess. At the end of this time the latter had entirely disappeared, the vertebral tenderness was quite gone, and the patient left the hospital at his own wish. It might possibly be objected that in these cases it is not the ice which has promoted absorption, but the improved circumstances under which the patients were placed in the hospital. But I have not unfrequently seen that under the influence of ice abscesses have disappeared which had formed in consequence of acute inflammatory processes; hot abscesses, the opening of which I thought it most desirable to prevent. The following case may serve as an example. Case 13.—Hot abscess over the scapula, after contusion j absorp- tion of the matter after three weeks'* treatment by ice.—H. TI—, a