ARITHMETIC MEANS. 211 this is not tlie case, the process above mentioned may be considered as accurate.1 In repeating the outline of this process I must also repeat the observation, that it is only available for complete series, by which I mean those series whose duration is sufficiently long to allow of our recognising, by the nature of the Successive Means, whether the irregularities of the observations have reached a notable degree of compensation or not. Let M and N be the Means of the series treated, with their dis- turbances, but only proceeding so far as the numbers which the suc- cessive mean determinations have demonstrated to be concordant. The last of these concordant figures must then be treated after the method of abbreviated decimal fractions (i. e. be raised by one unit if the succeeding figure be 5 or greater than 5), and where it is greater than unity the places following it are to be filled up by ciphers. Lor instance, if the Means were 6842 or 3693, and their certainty were limited to two figures, they would be respectively noted as 6800 and 2700. Where the fluctuations of the first uncertain figures in a sufficiently large combination of the last successive Means is slight, we may (as in the case of the above example) append the Arithmetic Mean of these first uncertain figures to the certain ones. We then compare the difference M—]\T, or N—M, with the sum of the uncertainties (the above /3' + j3-f 2 a), i. e. with the sum of the greatest divergencies of the group of successive Means from M and N. We shall then be justified in inferring an increase, or diminution, so soon as M—~N or N—M exceeds that sum. If neither the one nor the other is the case, the observations leave the operation of the agency experimented on undetermined. This process, which is based upon the method of Successive Means, so far as perfect series are concerned, leaves nothing to be desired in point of accuracy. Another process, which is founded on the employment of the Mean Error, or rather an analogue of the Mean Error, is very inferior to it, first, because it demands that the differences between the two Means to be compared shall be great, in order to give a reliable determination, and, secondly, because the Mean Error does not directly express the limits of uncertainty, but only the value of the observations according to a conventional standard. But as the process is to be pre- 1 When the differences between the mean quantities are great, the variations in the physical condition are of no importance.