91 CEREBRAL SINUSES. which very stinking, cheesy pus, mixed with blood, was found in the left lateral sinus, which communicated with the internal ear. In other cases the suppurative inflammatory process has approached very closely to the sinus, without, however, implicating it; the dura mater is sometimes found enveloped in pus in the groove provided for the reception of the sinus at the posterior part of the petrous bone, or is at least detached from the bone, and communications exist with the carious internal ear and cavity of the tympanum. The dura mater over the petrous bone often appears discoloured, of a grayish-green or blackish colour, and covered with purulent exu- dation, or it is thickened, and adherent to the arachnoid, and covered with spongy granulations. Lastly, in other cases, so close an encroachment of the inflammatory process upon the walls of the sinus does not occur, so that a direct communication between the caries and the thrombosis of the sinus, as in the cases mentioned above, does not exist. The anatomical changes met with in these cases in the brain and its coverings are mostly purulent meningitis and abscesses in the brain, of which several are sometimes found simultaneously. The latter are frequently connected directly with the carious parts (as, for instance, in the above-mentioned case of HeusingeEs), or are met with, at least, in their immediate vicinity, or, lastly, we observe them at a considerable distance without demonstrable direct con- nexion. Sometimes, however, the brain is only slightly discoloured or a little soft at the point of contact with the diseased bone, and in some places is even found quite normal. (Edema and hyperaemia of the pia mater are frequently met with, also serous and sero-purulent effusions into the lateral ventricles. The comparative infrequency of extravasations is striking; I nowhere find an effusion of blood in the brain mentioned, and only twice are slight extravasations in the pia mater reported (Lebert and Abercrombie). As regards the changes in other organs which may be brought into connexion with the affections of the petrous bone and of the sinus, these are mostly of a secondary character, and consist especially in metastatic abscesses and haemorrhagic infarction of the lung, often combined with suppurative or ichorous pleurisy and pericarditis, or in pleurisy alone. They occur in more than half the cases. The absence of metastatic deposits in other organs, especially the liver, appears striking, but it must be remarked that an exact report of the state of the other organs in the body is often wanting; on the