LEFT HEMISPHERE OF THE BRAIN. 145 Pinel fils,1 Breschet,2 Cazauvielh,3 Andral,4 Lallemand,5 Smith,6 Romberg,7 and Saint-Yves, who communicates a case where the one hemisphere of the cerebrum amounted to only two thirds of the other, while the opposite hemisphere of the cerebellum was atrophied.8 Rokitansky, too, in his work on pathological anatomy, speaks of this lesion, but without adducing any new case of it.9 It is much to be lamented that all these observations are more or less imperfect; almost all the writers confine themselves to the state of the brain ; I have nowhere been able to find any accurate observa- tion of the unilateral atrophy of the spinal cord. If we add my case to those of other authors, with which we may also enumerate that of an idiot communicated to me by Professor Schneevogt, where the left hemisphere of the cerebrum, as well as that of the cerebellum of the same side, was atrophied, we have in (pi. iv, fasc. v) Cruveilliier makes a mistake in the text, in speaking of atrophy of the right hemisphere ; in the plates the left hemisphere is represented as atrophied; and also at page 4 of the same case, Cruveilliier says that the left hemisphere was atrophied. Several writers commit mistakes of this kind. 1 “Recherches anat.-patholog. sur l’endurcissement da Svsteme nerveux/’ in Magendie, ‘Journal de Physiol./ tome ii, p. 191. 3 Breschet, in ‘Journal de Physiol./ par Magendie, tome iii, 1823, p. 241. 3 “ Agenesie cerebrale,” inNasse, Sammlung/ 1. c., 3 Heft. This writer com- municates not less than twelve cases, of which, however, only the first six can with any certainty be admitted as cases in point, since in the others the author infers the existence of the lesion only from the symptoms, no dissection having been made. 4 ‘ Clinique Medicale/ tome v, obs. 1—4, pp. 618 et seq. 5 Lallemand, ‘Recherches anat.-path. sur FEncephale/ lett. 8, pp. 221 et seq. In this communication nearly all the cases previously observed are to be found, with the exception of that related by Weber. They are collated and compared by the author with his usual acuteness and accuracy. ‘ Dublin Journal/ May, 1842, p. 296. 7 ‘Lehrbuch der Nervenkrankheiten/ 1 B., 3 Abth., p. 820. Also in Henoch’s dissertation, ‘De Atrophia Cerebri/ Berol., 1842, pp. 24 et seq.,in which there is a review, although rather a superficial one, of previous cases, and of the phe- nomena observed in them. 8 ‘Archives generates deMedecine/ Oct., 1834, and Jan., 1833. The case is that of a patient, who was subject to epilepsy, and had lapsed into a state of total imbecility; he died in his thirty-sixth year. Turner, too, describes cases of atrophy of one hemisphere of the cerebrum with atrophy of the opposite hemisphere of the cerebellum. See ‘Annales Med.-psychol./ 1856, p. 452. 9 ‘ Path, anat./ 1 B., pp. 775 et seq. I am, however, aware that in the Museum at Vienna such a case is preserved, with atrophy of one hemisphere of the cere- brum ; the cerebellum was not examined. 10