CEREBRAL SIMJSES. 105 contributed to bring about this result. Lastly, it may be remarked here that Tonnele (compare Billiet et Barth ez,f Maladies des Enfants/ i, 106) has observed swelling of tuberculous lymphatic glands and a tumour caused by caries of the cervical vertebrae, which, through pressure upon the vena cava, caused coagulation of the blood in it, and thrombosis which extended into the sinuses. III. Thrombosis of the Sinuses from debilitating influences. The number of the observations which come under this head amounts to nearly one fourth of all the cases collected by me. A closer examination of them furnishes numerous points of interest, especially in comparison with those grouped together in the first section. I prefix a brief description of the cases themselves. Case 36.1—An old woman from the division of the so-called “ Gateuses ” in the Sulpetriere, who was of weak intellect, died after twenty-four hours'’ coma. Sectio.—A brilliant, black, adherent thrombus was observed in the superior longitudinal sinus; similar plugs filled the veins com- municating with it. The gray substance of the greater hemispheres contained numerous capillary haemorrhages; on the convex surface of the right hemisphere an extensive yellowish cicatrix existed, which had obliterated several of its convolutions. Case 37.2—In a woman, get. 80, a painless infiltration of the left lower extremity occurred, which was soon followed by paralysis of the left half of the body, with the exception of the face and tongue; the paralysed arm was occasionally the seat of contraction. Einally, paralysis of the right side and death. Sectio.—In the anterior portion of the superior longitudinal sinus, an adherent thrombus, not discoloured, in the posterior portion one much changed in colour, extending on both sides an inch beyond the torcular Herophili into the lateral sinuses. The superior cerebral veins opening into it are also filled with plugs. In the sac of the arachnoid a fresh extravasation spreading over the convex surface of both hemispheres. (Edema of the pia mater; atrophy of the brain; extensive red softening of the gray substance of the 1 Cruveilhier, eAnat. Patholog.,’ liv. 36, p. 2. 2 Cruveilhier, loc. citat., liv. 36, pp. 4 and 5.