THE IMPORTANCE OF 260 mathematician, as such, cannot do this, and however accurately he may determine the Mean of a given series of numbers, he works with quantities whose value he himself cannot estimate; and he may in the end evolve a result as mathematically correct, which is probably altogether false, in consequence of its being founded upon individual observations which are faulty. Professor Eadicke provides us with a convenient illustration of the views which I have just expressed. The investigations of Dr. JBoecker on the influence of a saccharine diet upon the meta- morphosis of tissue, receive in Eadicke*s paper, as Yierordt remarks, “ the sanction of a representative of the exact sciences/* Bgecker arrived at the conclusion that the. ingestion of sugar decidedly re- tarded the metamorphosis of tissue, and, amongst other effects, also diminished considerably the diurnal excretion of urea. According to the calculations of Professor Eadicke, on the days when sugar was taken 15.7 gram, of urea, with the mean fluctuation of 2.03 gram., and on the days when no sugar was taken on an average 24.5 gram., with the mean fluctuation of 4.76, were eliminated. Professor Eadicke appends to this conclusion the remark, "the difference of the Means is 8.8, and the sum of the mean fluctuations 6.79; so that we cannot recognise a decided diminution of the urea under the influence of the saccharine diet.** But will the doubts of the physiologist be satisfied with this expression of opinion, and will it be considered as definitive ? Por my own part I have very great doubt whether, by the ingestion of sugar (with the continu- ance, be it observed, of the usual dietary and method of living, as in Boecker’s investigations), the amount of urea in the urine can be diminished to fds of its normal quantity; and although the con- clusion to which Dr. Boecker comes as to the retardation of tissue metamorphosis may generally approach the truth, the numbers which he has obtained appear to me to be very doubtful, and to demand further confirmation. The numbers 13, 14, 15, &c. gram- mes of urea per cliem for a man of about 136 lbs. weight possess more improbability for the physiologist, under the circumstances in question, than a mean number, with whose determination the ma- thematician is not, perhaps, quite satisfied, but which is, at least, deduced from numbers that are not improbable; hence I feel com- pelled in this case to consider the opinion of the mathematician as inferior to that of the physiologist. Accordingly, I think that I am justified in demanding, that the first