ON THE USE OF 316 girl, set. 8, of healthy appearance, fell down in the winter while sliding, and knocked her hack against the edge of a stone. It was especially the region of the left scapula which was hurt, and she felt much pain there for several hours afterwards. Eor some days the contused spot continued to be painful, hut the child did not complain, as it wished to share in a visit to some relatives living at a distance; it was only noticed to be particularly quiet. On the sixth day the elder sister, in washing the child*s back, observed on the scapula a flat swelling, of the size of half a hen’s .egg, which was tender to the touch, but covered with normal skin. The child stated that it had no pain, but it moved the left arm as little as possible, kept it bent, and supported it always with the right hand. The next day the family set out on their journey to visit their relatives. They drove about twenty-five miles in cold, wet weather, in an open carriage, and the consequence was that the child caught a severe cold. In the evening it complained of pain in the swelling, which had increased in size and had become intensely tender to the touch. The next day a medical man, a friend of mine, was called in, and found the swelling of the size of half a goose’s egg, very tender to the touch, covered with red skin, and pulsating. He ordered an ice-bag, which was applied uninterruptedly day and night. Under this treatment the tenderness decreased, but the swelling grew slowly larger, especially upwards. Every evening the girl had an attack of fever, and in the night dragging pains in various parts of the body, especially in the left arm and in the right leg. During the day she was comparatively well. The surgeon being doubtful if the abscess ought to be opened or not, called me in in consultation. I found over the left scapula a distinctly fluctua- ting swelling, of such a size as just to admit of being covered by my hand. Its upper margin came near to the spine of the scapula; its lower extended about one hand’s breadth downwards and back- wards, from the inferior angle of the scapula. The lower portion of the fluctuating sac was largest when the patient was sitting down. The skin over the swelling was hot, and the part very tender to the touch. Every movement of the left arm occasioned great pain. When the body was bent forwards, and the fluid in the sac- at the same time pressed upwards, the lower angle of the scapula could be distinctly felt on deep pressure, and was found not to be fractured, as I was inclined at first to believe. This was easily ascertained by comparing it with the right scapula. It was, nevertheless, very pain-