85 CEREBRAL SINUSES. very large, soft, and contains mncli blood. The mucous membrane of the stomach and intestinal canal presents nothing abnormal, with the exception of a hypersemic distension of one of Peyer's patches just above the ileo-csecal valves. The mesenteric glands are some- what enlarged. Kidneys normal. In the upper part of the right thigh there is extensive disor- ganization of the cellular tissue beneath the skin and between the muscles; in some places the fascia lata is seen to be perforated by the pus. No thrombus could be discovered in the venous trunks of this extremity. Having given this case, I shall venture to add some remarks on thrombosis generally, and especially on thrombosis of the sinuses of the brain. A slight glance at the history of the formation of coagula in the veins shows that it is closely connected with that of phlebitis, and various views have prevailed in reference to their origin. The clots having at first (Hunter) been regarded as an exudation upon the inner sur- face of inflamed veins, it was afterwards ascertained that they are- true coagulations of blood, and the notion that coagulation of the blood in the veins is the immediate consequence of phlebitis, which was supported by the authority of Cruveilhier, prevailed generally. It was reserved for Yirchow, in his classical work on thrombosis, to clear up the matter and to show that, in a large number of cases, the coagulation of the blood in the veins precedes the inflammation in them, while primary phlebitis, with subsequent coagulation of the blood, much more rarely occurs. The post-mortem appearances given above present a case of the first kind. The proof lies in the complete absence of any appearance of inflammation in the walls of the sinus, where filled by the clot, or in its neighbourhood. That the clot was not formed after death is shown by its laminated structure, its firmness and dryness, its colour, its richness in fibrin, and the circumstance that it completely filled the sinus and was adherent to its walls. The innate and immediate cause of the coagulation of that portion of the blood which we call fibrin is, indeed, still entirely unknown, but we know, from experience, that the coagulation is caused chiefly by two circumstances, viz.—(i) by the retardation and interruption of the motion of the blood in the vessels, and (2) by the contact with