43 PHYSIOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. sufficiently raised to allow of our seeing the closure accomplished by the cushion. In fact, when this free portion of the epiglottis is depressed, we see an image analogous to that in fig. 4, with this difference, that in the one there exists a free space for the passage of air between the epiglottis and the arytenoid cartilages, whilst in the other the closure is hermetic. These threefold occurrences in the hermetic closure of the larynx explain the resistance which the glottis successfully opposes to the pressure of the air, without a development of much force during the effort. When I compress the air within the chest, the larynx being hermetically closed, we distinctly observe the elastic parts to arch or curve outwards, without allowing the air to escape. When we then clear the throat, as if to expectorate, a passage is made for the air, because the elastic arched parts yield and are found to give way rapidly by the violent explosion of the air. We perceive the epiglottis, which is applied with its cushion upon the glottis, to become agitated by the distinct shocks. The epiglottis is not passively depressed under these circum- stances, for example, by the base of the tongue, but this depression is actually caused by the proper muscles of the epiglottis them- selves. We observe, with pleasure and satisfaction, that Santorini, who was the first to study the myology of the larynx with cor- rectness, attributes, a priori, to these muscles the effects which agree in a surprising manner with the direct observations made upon myself. In fact, Santorini says, in speaking of the double muscle dis- covered by him, and designated by the name of par tliyro-epiglotti- dceum minus novum : “ Is non eundem prorsus usum ac cseteri de- scripti epiglottidis musculi prsestare videtur; qui cum in imam fere epiglottidis partem inseratur, atque adeo, vel minimum, vel diffi- cilius deorsum vellere illam queat, prse valido ejusdem cum thyroide nexu, illius inferam partem, quam scilicet acutam interius ac promi ■ nentem supra posuimus, deducit, eamque, puto, proprius glottidi, velut apte, eleganterqiie conformatum operculum, applicat quodarn- 7iiodoi et accommodaiat. Bini autem, de quibus diximus, ary- epiglottidseus scilicet et thyro-epiglottidseus major (hunc etenim minorem dicimus) etsiamsi cum superam epiglottidis partem deorsum ducunt, et inferam quadantenus deprimere necesse habeant, ad id tamen potissimum videntur comparati, ut mediam, atque cavam, cui