87 CEREBRAL SINUSES. adhesion to the walls must increase, while the rapidity of the cur- rent, cateris paribus, must decrease. A further circumstance which must tend to retard the current of the blood is the peculiar manner in which the venous trunks discharge their contents into the supe- rior longitudinal sinus, the stream in them being directed mostly at a right angle, and partly even at an obtuse angle to the current in the sinus. It follows from this that even under normal conditions the rapidity of the current in the sinus, especially in the superior longitudinal sinus, is comparatively slight. If pathological condi- tions supervene, which tend to diminish the force of the general circulation, the retardation in the sinus will become more consi- derable, and a state of things very favorable to coagulation be produced. Diseases which cause a diminution of the mass of the blood generally, as e. g. losses of blood, profuse diarrhoeas, &c., must have a similar effect. This depends upon the circumstance that the sinuses, from the great tenseness of their walls, are capable of very little dilatation, and may almost be regarded as rigid tubes, upon which the absence of atmospheric pressure within the cranium can- not have even an indirect effect, and which, from the complete want of muscular elements, are incapable of any active contraction. But if, when the supply of blood to the brain is diminished—as must necessarily occur on a diminution of the general mass of the blood— their volume cannot be lessened, a retardation of the current be- comes inevitable. Lastly, an increased viscidity of the blood, such as occurs in certain diseased conditions, will suffice to retard its current in the blood-vessels, and therewith in the sinuses of the brain, and favour the formation of thrombi. It appears, however, as if a very high degree of thickening of the blood, such as is met with, for instance, in the cold stage of Asiatic cholera, were unfavorable to firm coagulation of the blood. At least, the tarry, imperfect coagulation of the blood, and the infrequency of firm, buffy clots in most of the bodies of persons dying during the cold stage, with the very incomplete, chiefly gelatinous, coagulation of blood taken from the veins, speak in favour of the above view, although it cannot be denied that chemical and still unknown modifications of the blood in this disease may also favour this result. It frequently happens that several of these circumstances coincide and support each other's influence, and among these I would speci- ally allude to profuse fluid discharges, which cause simultaneously a