265 ARITHMETIC MEANS. very rarely is its condition at all uniform. It is only the fre- quent repetition of the same observations of oneVself, or by other experimenters on themselves, which can confer upon the re- sults obtained any certainty; and that this view of the question has always been a leading one with me is shown by the demand which I have for many years past made for co-operative labours in pliysiologico-chemical questions on a definite plan. Is Dr. Boecker, then, who entirely coincides with Professor Radicke, of the opinion that his investigations will acquire much more reliability and certainty if he determines his mean values according to strictly mathematical rules, and especially if he says "No,” where the dif- ference between the Means of two series does not exceed the sum of their uncertainties P I need only refer again to the sugar researches quoted above, which the mathematician sanctions, but over which the physiologist will require to think further, to lead me to think that we are flooded with “ the stream of baseless and erroneous doc- trines by which medical science daily threatens to be overwhelmed,” not so much through the keenness with which any one man throws himself into the defence of his own investigations, but because such minimal contributions as these are so excessively lauded by others, especially at their commencement, and are rated so much more highly than they either ought or seek to be. But let no one be very much astonished at this. It is just in science as in common life, the opening of a new source of acquisition (in this case a mental one) exercises a deluding fascination, and readily excites an unjustifiable confidence. This, in time, disappears of its own accord. Truth makes its own way, errors disappear, and then, for the first time, the real value of this new source is rightly appreciated. I may be allowed, myself, to make a few remarks upon an erroneous apprehension of the mean values heretofore obtained, which is occa- sionally met with. As a rule, the method which is employed is, to conduct a definite series of investigations in as uniform a manner as possible for a certain number of days; to add together the numbers obtained for the substance, &c., experimented on; to divide the sum by the number of the days; and to regard the quotient as the mean value for twenty-four hours. But these twenty-four hours are no definite ones; nor do they indicate any day that we may like to choose. They have only a comparative value, and all that we are justified in saying with regard to them is, the Mean found within seven days of the month of June, &c., for the period of twenty-four