ARITHMETIC MEANS. 263 that the uncertainties of the quantities of urine obtained by Boecker in two series of researches, of twelve days each, with reference to the action of sarsaparilla, amount to 386 cub. cent., and 268 cub. cent., or, in the aggregate, to 654 cub. cent, (not 674), whilst the Means of the two series, are 1549 and 1499 cub. cent. Uncertainties of an entirely similar character may be found in the investigations of others, as, for instance, in my own, published in the ‘ Arcliiv des Yerenis fur Gemenischaftliche Arberten/ Yet these Means are very like those given for the urinary quantities during an ordinary course of life by other investigators. But, supposing now that we find in another series of researches the same uncertainties as in Boecker's, but with a difference of 400 cub. cent, in the Means, Pro- fessor Radicke will by no means allow that the influence under investigation has produced any alteration in the urine, because the difference of the Means is smaller than the sum of their uncertainties = 674 cub. cent., or to about half the normal quantity of the urine. Will any physiologist doubt that an average diminution of 400 cub. cent., or 1500 cub. cent., as the normal amount of the urine, as a sequence of the action of any given influence, indicates that that influence has produced this diminution of the urine, provided that this latter result has not been excited by some special accidental con- dition, such as sweating, diarrhoea, &c. ? I may in fact assume, that the sum of the uncertainties of two series of investigations is very frequently greater than the difference of their Means, especially when the influence to be tested is not a very powerful one, such as the deprivation of water or meat; yet if we are to recognise such inves- tigations as justificatory of a conclusion only when they correspond with the conditions Professor Radicke has laid down, we should pro- bably seldom come to any conclusion at all. We must in discussing these matters, bear in mind the important fact, that the fluctuations in the vital phenomena compensate one another within a certain number of days, provided that no excessive disturbing causes have intervened. Thus, for instance, on one day, as a result of severe mental pressure, we may have 1900 cub. cent, of urine excreted, whilst on the following day (equal quantities of fluid being consumed on both days) the quantity excreted may be only 800 cub. cent.; yet in four days, notwithstanding this fluctuation, the quantity excreted will be nearly the same as if this disturbance had not occurred, or as it wrould be on four other days in which equal quantities of fluid were consumed, but all the other conditions under which the organism 17