76 APPENDIX ON RHINOSCOPY. I must not omit mentioning that last spring, when in Paris, I was reminded of the "bromide of potassium, which had proved useful to Professor Gosselin, as a local anaesthetic, especially in the pharynx, during the operation of staphyloraphy.” (‘ Gazette Medicale de Paris/ 14 Avril, i860, p. 223); and that I had previously, in 1858, pointed to the composition of ether and chloroform, used by Weiger, a dentist of Vienna, as likely to be useful for this purpose. Whatever the future may develope in this respect, we shall still find persons in whom the rhinoscopic and laryngoscopic methods will fail; but this want of success exists in all other modes of exploration, besides the present. But when we have succeeded in removing all obstacles leading to the parts which we desire to inspect, and have regulated the light in a manner previously described, it becomes a comparatively easy matter to introduce the mirror, and to investigate the different parts of the pharyngo-nasal vault and nasal fossae. As a matter of course, all the general rules given for the use of the laryngoscope, apply equally to rhinoscopy. In the latter, as well as in the former, any person who has made himself familiar with the laws of catoptrics—of the topography of the respiratory organs—and who does not act without proper consideration, will very soon become aware of what he desires to perform. It will now be expedient to direct the attention of the reader to the accompanying woodcut (Big. 31). The drawing shows a section of the head and neck, through the median line—the head thrown well backwards. All the parts of the external wall of the left nasal fossa, namely, the turbinated bones, the meatuses, and anterior nasal opening, are marked by dotted lines on the septum narium. The velum and the uvula are drawn out of their normal position (pit) by a palate-hook (k), and turned forwards and upwards—the tongue being sufficiently depressed, the mouth, fauces, and nasal cavity, communicate freely. If, under such circumstances, a little mirror is placed at x, and yx be the direction of the light and sight, then the observer must see in the direction xn, through the posterior nares into the nasal fossae, which are visible throughout their entire extent. If the nasal fossae are wide enough, the sight may extend along the septum as far as the nasal bones and the lamina cribrosa. The bottom of the nasal cavity, and the greatest part of the inferior meatus, remain in-