84 THROMBOSIS OF THE the lower jaw was cut. On the 17th, its condition was much the same. On the 18 th, the discharge was more scanty, thinner, and of a had colour. The edges of the wounds had a livid appearance. In the course of the day a -slight cough came on. On the 19th, there was great collapse, with dulness of the eyes, and the act of sucking was, for the first time, very imperfectly performed. There was great restlessness and constant moaning, with persistence of the cough. Ordered decoction of cinchona, with Malaga wine. Towards even- ing transient epistaxis supervened, and, according to the parents' account, the urine was tinged with blood. Death occurred soon after 9 p.m. quietly, without convulsions having preceded it. Post-mortem appearances thirty-six hours after death.—The body was tolerably fleshy. No rigor mortis. Head.—The greater fontanelle is open to the extent of half an inch, and somewhat depressed. Bones of the skull normal. In the anterior portion of the superior longitudinal sinus is found a firm, three-cornered, pale clot of blood, completely filling the sinus and adhering to its walls. This was found, on a closer examination, to be laminated, and contained in its interior, where it was somewhat softer, thickish, dark-coloured cruor. In the posterior portion of the sinus the thrombus does not occupy its whole calibre; it is also softer there, and consists of buffy fibrin infiltrated with serum. In the left lateral sinus is also found a fresh, soft, dark-red clot, while the right lateral sinus is filled with dark, fluid blood. The veins terminating in the superior longitudinal sinus contain tough, firm, colourless clots. Venous liypersemia and slight oedema of the pia mater. The brain is strikingly firm for the age of the child. The ventricles are small, and contain only a few drops of serum. Chest.—In the lower lobe of the left lung are found several small patches of lobular pneumonia, surrounded by lung-tissue in a state of atelectasis; in the upper lobe compensatory emphysema. The middle lobe of the right lung is in a state of complete atelectasis. The bronchial glands around the left bronchus are in a state of recent swelling. Heart.—Contains no blood or clots. The mitral, tricuspid, and aortic semilunar valves show gelatinous thickening. On the first there are seen whitish, firmly adherent excrescences, partly smooth, partly ragged. Abdomen.—Slight fatty degeneration of the liver. The spleen