125 CEREBRAL SINUSES. the more advanced softening of the thrombus; by changes in the walls of the sinus; by inflammation in the brain and its membranes; and by metastatic processes in other organs. B. Thrombosis originating primarily in the sinus is the conse- quence— I. Of influences which retard the current of the blood. In the generality of cases several causes act simultaneously in this direction, partly of a general, partly of a local character. i. General causes retarding the current of the blood are— a. Deficient energy of the heards action. a. In advanced age [marasmus senilis). Diminished elasticity of the coats of the arteries must here be taken into account as a favouring element. (3. In infancy (marasmus infantilis). y. In consequence of precedent acute or chronic diseases. b. Diminution of the quantity of the blood. Its effect in retard- ing the circulation manifests itself chiefly in the sinuses of the brain. (It is generally associated with the causes mentioned under a). a. Direct retardation from losses of blood. j3. Indirect retardation from profuse secretions, in which cases a certain allowance must be made for the inspissation of the blood (diarrhoea and cholera infantum, profuse sup- puration). c. Impediments to the expansion of the lungs, which prevent the right side of the heart from emptying itself properly. These impe- diments exist partly in the lungs themselves (pneumonia, atelectasis, tuberculosis), partly in the pleura (pleuritic effusion), or result from deficient action of the respiratory muscles (in rickets, ascites, perito- nitis). Alone they do not appear to produce a thrombosis in the sinuses, but they must be regarded as very powerful auxiliaries. The thrombosis which results from the causes mentioned under B, I, i, acting for the most part in combination (thrombosis from marasmus), is characterised by the situation of the thrombus most frequently in one of the azygous sinuses (the superior longitudinal or straight sinus); by its firmness; by the non-existence of disease in the walls of the sinus; by consecutive haemorrhages in the brain and its membranes ; and by the absence or very unfrequent occurrence of metastatic processes in other organs.