160 ATROPHY OP TIIK have been brought forward against many points in the essay of these writers and the characteristic difference in thickness between spinal and vegetative nerves, as well as against the origin of the sympa- thetic in general, as suggested by Bidder and Volkmann, I am not aware that the fact based upon their investigations, that many more sympathetic filaments are contained in the sensitive than in the motor nerves, has as yet been fundamentally refuted, or even ren- dered doubtful. On the contrary, this appears to me to be in every respect established by the reasons quoted above, and I therefore con- sider it probable that the most important use of these ganglia is to constitute a principal source of the peripheric action of the vegetative influence of the nerves. It is well known that in every ganglion large and small ganglionic globules exist, which, as my own investi- gations have confirmed, for the most part lie distinctly, but near one another, in different groups, being separated by a number of nerve- fibres and by filaments spun around them, which latter were first observed by Remak, and the nature of which has not yet been exactly ascertained. I suspect that in some mode, not yet anatomically demonstrated with certainty, a connexion will be found to exist between these groups of small and large ganglionic globules, so that an irritation of the sensitive nerves is reflected in the ganglia on the adjoining smaller ganglionic globules belonging to the vegetative system; indeed, by irritating the skin, we can produce inflammation, but if the trunk of the nerve be divided, this no longer succeeds, as I have experimentally demonstrated twenty-six years ago,1 and the vegetative power is lost. Consequently the transference of the centri- petal force to the centrifugal in the sensitive nerves, or to the 1 ‘Observat. anat. Pathol./ Amst., 1826, pp. 14, et seq. This experiment, too, is disputed by Snellen, who found that if the wounds were dressed with washed taffetv, inflammation and suppuration supervened also in the paralytic foot. But it is certain that after division of the nerve the effect is less, as I saw distinctly in comparative experiments by Dr. Snellen with inflammation of the ear in rabbits, from which it appeared that in the sound ear the inflamma- tion was much more violent, in the paralysed organ it was scarcely perceptible. See Snellen’s dissertation above quoted, pp. 16 et seq. I must further observe that, as Remak has already discovered multipolar cells in the cceliac ganglion of the sympathetic, I have met with them both in the sympathetic and in the small ganglionic cells which are found in the sensitive cords of the spinal nerves with the larger cells, so that thus the suspicion that in the spinal ganglia sympathetic cells commuuicate with larger cells of the sensitive nerves is strongly confirmed.