137 LEFT HEMISPHERE OF THE BRAIN. fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves on the right side, much dimi- nished in thickness and size; this difference was particularly striking in the fifth and sixth nerves.1 So far as I have been able to ascertain, no writer seems to have directed his attention to this difference in thickness of the spinal cord and plexuses on the side opposite to the cerebral atrophy. The trunks of the nerves, too, in the neighbour- hood of the ganglia were slighter on the right than on the left side,2 which is of especial importance, since, as we shall hereafter see, the opposite condition seems to obtain in the further course of the nerves. The state of the skull is not less important, the difference in the thickness of the two sides being very striking,3 although externally scarcely any difference is observable between the right and left. In the first place, in the left half of the skull, both in the vault and on the base, all the so-called impressiones digitatse and juga cerebralia are wanting, while on the right, on the contrary, they are very dis- tinct. This is particularly evident above the orbital plate, which on the left side is convex and perfectly smooth and even, without any impression (Fig. I, a), while on the left it is less arched and is marked with very deep impressiones digitatse (b). The difference in thickness of these plates is very remarkable; thus, while that of the right amounts at b to only one millimetre, the bone being very transparent, the thickness of the left in the neighbourhood of a is not less than five millimetres. The cribriform plate between the two is rather oblique, and the crista galli (q) inclines so much to the left side as completely to cover its anterior half, in consequence of which even the olfactory nerve is compressed and rendered much shorter and slighter. The processus clinoidei antici have an oblique direc- tion ; that on the left side extends more backwards and is much thicker (k);4 the processus clinoidei postici are smaller, and at the sides anew osseous plate runs from either edge to the os petrosum (p). But the principal difference exists in the great wings of the sphenoid bone, on which the end of the middle lobe of the brain rests; that on the right side forms (d) a tolerably deep cavity and groove beneath the clinoid process, in which, as usual, the inferior 1 Fig. Y, a, by c, and d, e,f. * 2 For details see the table. 3 See Fig. I. 4 This oblique position of the clinoid processes quite agrees, though in an inverse direction, with Weber’s drawing, where the atrophy took place on the right side. See ‘Acta Nat. Curios,’ Bonnse, 1828, vol. xiv, tab. xii.