THE IMPORTANCE OF 262 Arithmetic Mean of the first uncertain figures, taken from an aggregate of so many of the last successive Means as the given case shows to be desirable. The greatest divergence in the numbers of this aggregate from the Mean found, is the measure of uncertainty.” If we have to compare the Means of numerous complete series of observations of variable quantities, we are then only justified in concluding that an increase has occurred on one side if the difference of the Means is greater than the double of the greatest^error of observation, i. e., if it is greater than the sum of the uncertainties of these Means. With regard to these recommendations, the computation of the successive Means, as well as the determination of the measure of uncertainty, appears to me very desirable; and, as Eadicke advises, the successive Means of the numerical series ought to be taken both from first to last, and from last to first, so as to discover whether the uncertainty is greatest at the commencement or the termination of the series. By means of these processes we shall certainly gain a more correct idea of the fluctuations of the results of our investi- gations than we should by a simple survey of them, and it is only in this way that we can acquire a knowledge of the degree of mathe- matical accuracy which the Mean possesses. With respect, however, to the second of the above conditions, I can only accept it as par- tially true, however correct it may be in its mathematical relations. For, the sum of the uncertainties of certain numerical series will often exceed the difference of the mean values of these series, without that difference being on that account the less an approximate expres- sion of the truth. Let me illustrate this by the following example : Professor Eadicke is favorable, as has been already mentioned, to BoeckeFs conclusion, that a saccharine diet diminishes the amount of urea in the urine, because the difference of Means in the two series compared = 8.8 gram., exceeds the sum of their mean fluctuations =6.79 gram. The sum of the fluctuations of two series in respect to urea will probably often, and upon physiological grounds, exceed the maximum of 6.79 gram. For there are numer- ous influences, medicinal agents, and articles of diet, which diminish the quantity of urea by pth of its normal amount; but shall we, after repeated and frequent discovery of slighter differences than this, conclude that those influences, &c., have no effect upon the urea, simply because the sum of the uncertainties of the numbers which our investigations give is less than the difference of their Means ? Or, to take another example : Professor Eadicke estimates