ON THE USE OF 290 touched the skin. The man felt great and rapid relief from the application of the ice. The violent pains in the joint disappeared, hut as soon as the abstraction of heat became too vigorous his joint began to grow painful again. The patient attributed these new pains, not to the ice, but to a fresh onset of inflammation. He therefore persisted in the application of the ice till the parts were killed. It was after this that he was taken into the hospital and put under my care. The discoloured parts soon separated, and left granu- lating surfaces behind, after the cicatrization of which every sign of the inflammation of the joint had disappeared. In using ice in india-rubber bags such an incident, I think, need not be feared. The abstraction of heat by means of this appliance never becomes so powerful as to bring the circulation entirely to a stop, or fully to kill the tissues. If such a bag of ice lias been for some time in contact with a part of the body, the part feels as cold as ice, but has by no means lost its sensibility. I shall hereafter show that an inflamed part may be kept, without inter- ruption, for months together, at that temperature without the least damage being caused. The chief objection which may be raised against a very extended use of these india-rubber bags is that they are rather expensive. A good, middle-sized bag is not to be had under eighteen-pence, and the larger ones cost three shillings and more. But, on the other hand, they are very durable, if they are made of a good material and if carefully used. Those made in America are by far the best; they are of a light-brownish colour, their surface is uniformly smooth and even, and their walls are com- paratively thick and heavy. They bear the stamp “Gody ear's Patent," and are to be got at Mr. Schliemann's, in Hamburg, who has five different sizes in store. I have used some of them continuously for nine months before they got damaged. Those made in Europe— German, English, and Erench—are of a much inferior quality. They are of a light-gray colour, and very often present on their surface rough spots, which are small bits of sulphur that, in the process of valcanizing, have not combined with the india rubber. These become detached during use, and leave little depressions behind, or sometimes even perforations. It is of great importance to deal care- fully with them; the smallest damage is irretrievable, and soon ends in a tear. If the bag ceases to be waterproof it, of course, entirely loses its usefulness. To avoid tearing, the mouth of the bag must not be too narrow, as is, for instance, the case with some of the flask-