COLD IN SURGERY. 305 cart upon his left elbow, and fractured the lower part of his humerus. The line of fracture extended from behind and above, downwards and forwards, right into the joint, which was filled with extravasated blood. The under, sharp fragment of hone was felt protruding a good deal above the internal condyle. After the fragments had been adjusted, the arm was put comfortably upon a cushion and well fixed. Ice was then used for twenty-two days, till the patient could not bear the cold any longer. By this time the arm had reassumed its normal shape. A starch bandage was now put on, and vdien at the end of the fifth week it was removed, the fracture was found to be united, and the joint to have completely retained its mobility. In all cases of fracture which involve joints I follow the principle taught by Professor Stromeyer—to subdue all inflammation before making use of firm bandages—and I have never had occasion to regret it. But, on the other hand, I have seen cases treated by other practitioners turn out very badly when firm bandages have been applied at too early a stage. The various forms of inflammation of joints are certainly some of the most important affections which civil surgeons are called upon to treat, because, if not, from the first, rightly and energetically treated, they are very often followed by loss of a limb or even by death. In surgical hospitals, at least in mine, recent and acute forms of inflammation of joints come very much less frequently under treat- ment than neglected chronic forms, such as the so-called white swelling of joints and the suppuration and carious destruction of the knee-joint, hip-joint, vertebral column, &c. Some surgeons take at once for granted that such cases are of a dyscrasial origin, class them under the name of scrofulous disease of joints, and apply their treatment more to the supposed dyscrasy than to the local affection. I do not, of course, deny that some low in- flammations of this kind in scrofulous patients are to be looked upon as symptoms of this dyscrasy, but it is also certain that surgeons very often go too far in classifying cases under the head of scrofula which, in fact, are nothing but neglected and lingering inflamma- tions of a simple kind, which have originally been caused by external influences. When such patients are sent to my wards with the dia- gnosis of scrofulous affection of the joint I am very often able, on careful examination, to make out that the disease has taken some such course as the following. At the beginning the joint was hurt, perhaps, not very severely, by a blow, a fall, a sprain, or exposure to