38 LARYNGOSCOPE. produced with the larynx elevated forwards and upwards, by jerks ; and there is no reason for supposing that the parts behave in a manner essentially different in the emission of both the deepest and more moderate chest sounds. Garcia has already described,1 from direct observation, the arrangement of the parts in the interior of the larynx during phona- tion, and I can generally confirm the correctness of liis opinions. I have figured (Plate II, fig. 5) the condition of the interior of the larynx during the production of the most acute sounds. The ex- amination of the parts presents scarcely any difficulties, when sounds of this character are produced. The glottis is contracted in a linear form; on each side we perceive the vocal cords, distinguished by their whitish-yellow colour from the neighbouring parts of a reddish colour; a little to the outer side is a narrow groove, which indicates the ventricles of Morgagni; further outwards again are the false or superior vocal cords. The arytenoid cartilages intimately meet, as well as their processes, in the median line, and sometimes cross over with the cartilages of Santorini; it is not unusual to observe an asymmetrical action between these parts. These cartilages raised, form, with the epiglottis pulled upwards and forwards, and also with the aryteno-epiglottic ligaments, a short and stiff tube situated above the glottis. According to the sensation which we feel during the experiment, all these parts appear to be in a state of very great tension. We perceive upon the subverted epiglottis a large part of its posterior surface, and we can distin- guish a round, reddish cushion (e, tv) very well marked, which habitually2 conceals the point of insertion of the vocal cords, and of which we shall occupy ourselves in the next paragraph. If, under these circumstances, the glottis is open for breathing, the arytenoid processes revolve themselves in deviating inwards or outwards, and form at the middle of the vocal cords an open or projecting angle within; in the first case, the glottis momentarily assumes the form of a lozenge (Plate II, fig. 6); but this angle is always projecting when we constrict the glottis, because the pro- cesses arc then more or less convergent (Plate II, fig. 8). The pos- terior section of the glottis is then almost triangular, and has been 1 Op. cit., e Observations 011 the Human Voice, &c.’ 2 Dr. Czermak is now able sufficiently to elevate the epiglottis, so as to permit being seen in himself the whole of its posterior surface and the anterior point of insertion of the vocal cords.—Translator.