144 ATROPHY OF THE tinct case of atrophy of one half of the brain, such as I have detailed, either in his writings or in those of Bonnet, Yoigtel, or Meckel. Much diversity of opinion prevails among writers as to the nature and cause of this lesion. As the atrophy I have described is said to arise either shortly after, or even before, birth, some, as Cazauvielh, have regarded it, not as an atrophy, but as a congenital defect, on which account this author has assigned to it the name of agenesie cerebrate? Lallemand has, in my opinion correctly, rejected this idea, as the atrophy seems evidently to be the result of previous inflammation in the central parts of the brain, at one time occurring before, at another after, birth.2 We must, in fact, distinguish this lesion from conge- nital defects properly so called, among which latter, for example, the remarkable case communicated by Budolphi is to be included, of a stillborn child, in whom the right hemisphere of the brain was dimi- nished in size, but at the same time the first four and the sixth cere- bral nerves were wholly absent.3 The principal writers in whose works I have met with examples of a similar unilateral atrophy of the brain are Gall,4 Weber,5 Cruveilhier,6 1 “ Agenesie cerebrale ” in the ‘ Archives generates de Medecine/ tome iv; also translated by Nasse in * Sammlung zur Kentniss der Gehirn- und Riicken- markskrankheiten, Stuttgart/ 1840, 3 Heft, pp. 1 et seq. 2 ‘ Becherches anatom.-pathol. sur l’Encephale/ Lett. 8, pp. 239 et seq., 331 et seq., and in several other places. Lallemand himself brings forward the case of a pregnant woman, who got a violent blow on the abdomen, fol- lowed by vigorous movements of the child, which wholly ceased after the lapse of twelve hours. Lour days subsequently the woman was delivered of a dead child, in whom the entire of the right hemisphere of the brain was degenerated to the condition of a red pulp, still containing some less degenerated parts. L. c., p. 222; see also p. 226, obs. 24 and 25. At a later period of life, too, atrophy of one hemisphere may arise in consequence of chronic inflammation, with phenomena of semi-paralysis. See Baillarger, “ De la cause anatomique de quelques hemiplegies incompletes,” in ‘Annales Medico-psycholog/ Paris, i858, pp. 168 et seq. Baillarger found a difference in weight between the two hemispheres of from twenty to sixty-two grammes. 3 ‘ xibhandlungen der Konigl. Academie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin/ 1814, 1815, pp. 185 et seq. 4 Gall, * Sur les fonctions du Cerveau/ 8vo, tome ii, p. 252, and tome iii, p. 97. Also in his ‘Anatomie et Physiol, du Systeme nerveux/ tome iii, p. 36, pi. li, Iii, liii. In the text Gall speaks of the left hemisphere of the brain, which was atrophied in different places. But in all the plates, pro- bably from neglect of transposition of the engraver, the right hemisphere is represented as atrophied. I have thought it right to keep to the text. 5 ‘Acta Nat. Curios./ Bonn, 1828, pp. iii et seq. 6 ‘Anat. Patholog./ fasc. v, pi. iv, v; fasc. viii, pi. v. In the one case