THROMBOSIS OF THE CEREBRAL SINUSES. 128 blood causes coagulation of the latter,, and because, with the possi- bility of the entrance of pus through the foramen into the sinus, a subsequent haemorrhage from the latter must have occurred; Pitha, while taking into consideration the possibility of phlebitis in the diploe, thinks the assumption inadmissible, because the normal state of the wound is opposed to it. To this it might be objected that the condition of this wound during life was not altogether normal, and that the post-mortem examination showed superficial caries, inasmuch as a portion of the outer layer of the mastoid process was broken off, and the bone at this point covered with gray pus, and the bone in the vicinity as far as the mastoid foramen was rough. The possibility of phlebitis in the diploe, from which the thrombosis might spread to the sinus, cannot, therefore, well be denied. The following explanation appears to me, however, more admissible. The sabre-cut behind the left ear injured the mastoid foramen, and thus, as Pitha also conjectures, caused the very considerable haemor- rhage. The thrombus which formed in the injured foramen extended gradually into the left lateral sinus, reached the left cavernous sinus through the petrosal, and the right cavernous sinus through the circular. This extensive and long-existing thrombosis in the sinuses also explains the continuance of the strikingly slow pulse. When the thrombus began to break down, fever set in, with pysemic symptoms and metastatic deposits in the lung. That this thrombosis must have already existed for a long time is shown by the fully puriform state of decomposition in which the coagula were found. At the last only, fresh thrombi formed in the ophthalmic veins and remaining sinuses of the right side. Prom the purely local cause of the thrombosis, the azygous sinuses, even the superior longitudinal, notwithstanding its great extent, remained free, and carried on the circulation within the skull. Here also, as in the majority of the cases which I have described in the first section, we find purulent exudation upon the dura mater and metastatic deposits in the lungs, with advanced decomposition of the clots, while, notwithstanding the great spread of the thrombi, no extravasations were found within the skull.