LARYNGOSCOPE. 22 palati. Then the back of the mirror is placed against the soft palate and uvula, which at the same time are gently raised. The stem of the laryngoscope is found to be at that instant in one of the angles of the mouth. The image perceived informs the observer of the changes which he ought to produce in the inclination and position of the laryn- goscope, by the aid of the movements imparted to the handle, and of the disposition of the organs of the mouth and pharynx, so that the desired end can be attained. When a demonstration is made, we must remember, relatively to the inclination of the laryngoscope, what has been said regard- ing the connection that exists between the plane of vision of the person who is examining himself and that of the strange observer (see p. 20). Section IV.—Of the Examination made upon Others. I believe it is superfluous and wholly unnecessary to descant upon the difficulties which we encounter in various individuals, upon the means of overcoming them, and upon the indications already given concerning the examination of certain parts of the larynx. I be- lieve this, because, if we master the principle of the method of Liston and Garcia, if we sufficiently know the laws of catoptrics and the topography of the parts which we are anxious to examine, we shall readily understand the practical application of the general directions which have been given (Chapter II), whilst the most elaborate descriptions would never serve to instruct an observer, for the necessary aptitude can only be acquired by much study, practice, and the persevering employment of the instruments. I shall limit myself here to add only certain short observations, which throughout concern the employment of light by means of perforated mirrors, in the following words of Garcia: "The method consists in placing a little mirror, fixed on a long handle suitably bent, in the throat of the person experimented on, against the soft palate and uvula.” The group figured in Plate I (Frontispiece), I had engraved after a photograph; this design affords the example of an exami- nation made with the light of the sun, which comes from above, behind and to the right of the person being examined. If artificial