ON THE USE OF 282 wounds wliicli were under then* care. He afterwards recommended strongly this method of treatment in the ‘ Dictionnaire des Sciences Medicates/ This remedy has ever since maintained an honorable place in military surgery. Most authorities in that branch of medical science make use of it, and warmly advocate its application in all kinds of severe injuries. (Larrey, Guthrie, Bandens, Stromeyer, &c.) In civil surgery, on the other hand, as well as in medical practice, cold is far from being duly appreciated, and is, consequently, not employed as it deserves to be. Of this I have had ample oppor- tunity of convincing myself, in visiting many hospitals in different countries and in watching the mode of treatment which many physicians pursue in private practice. Further, in perusing the handbooks and monographs of modern surgery in reference to this point, one recognises at once that many authors are not acquainted with the results which the medical practitioner is able to obtain from the use of cold, rightly applied. Although most of them admit that, in cases of recent wounds, and in the first stage of acute inflammation, cold water or ice is an ex- cellent remedy, they generally caution us against the long-continued application of cold, and advise its discontinuance as soon as suppu- ration sets in. But some surgeons go even further than this; they reject altogether the use of cold as an antiphlogistic remedy, and believe that it is apt to produce various bad results, as, for instance, gangrene, phlegmonous inflammation, tetanus, inflammation of internal organs, rheumatic affection of joints, &c. Some of the opponents of cold apply, from the very beginning, to recent injuries and inflammations, the opposite agent—warmth; whilst others flatter themselves that they have discovered the only effectual antiphlogistic remedy in firm supports, obtained by strapping, starch-bandages, and so on. If I now positively assert that, in my own practice, having made very extensive, though deliberate, use of cold in the most various forms of diseases, I have never had occasion to observe any of those bad consequences which are said to be caused by that remedy, and if I repeat here my previous statement, that, according to my own experience, I believe cold to be the most important and most powerful antiphlogistic remedy, I am naturally led to inquire how conflicting opinions concerning this point have arisen—how it is possible that such different views are entertained on comparatively so simple a subject.