155 LEFT HEMISPHERE OF THE BRAIN. he has seen atrophied muscles become thicker and regain their former circumference under the repeated application of galvanism.1 Brown-Sequard also observed the same.2 Others attribute the atro- phy to a direct want of nervous influence. The importance of the subject requires that we should examine this point a little more accurately, particularly as there is still so much difference of opinion among physiologists as to the question of the more or less direct influence of the nerves on nutrition. If, in the first place, we compare the several cases on record, we shall find that it is not true that limbs which are most paralysed are always the most atrophied. In the first case related by Cazauvielh the arm was thinner, but almost as long as the other, and its move- ments were very difficult; the leg, on the contrary, was shorter, obliging the woman to limp ; still she could walk, proving that the leg was less paralysed than the arm.3 In his fifth case the arm was rigid and immoveable, although as thick as the other (perhaps on account of increased development of fat); at the same time the leg was not only thinner, but was also shorter; she walked with the aid of a crutch, while she was wholly unable to use the arm.4 It is, however, much to be regretted that none of the authors have taken the trouble to measure the difference in thickness and length of the extremities, on which account I shall not attach much importance to Cazauviellfls two former inconsistent cases, but shall prefer to endeavour to draw some conclusions from my own. That the emaciation of the muscles is directly proportionate to the greater or less degree of paralysis, is beyond doubt; but the atrophy of the bones appears not to be so completely dependent on the latter. If, for example, we compare the muscles and bones of the arm in my case, it will be seen that the muscles of the humerus were much less atrophied than those of the forearm, in the ratio of 837 to 56'6.5 1 L. c., p. 328. 2 * Annales Medico-psychologiques de Baillarger,5 Paris, Juillet, 1850, pp. 453 et seq* 3 L. c., p. 7. Lallemand, obs. 44. 4 L. c., p. 19. Since the publication of this essay I have six or seven times observed in living subjects this lesion with shortening and atrophy, especially of the arm, opposite to the atrophy of the hemisphere. In the majority of cases a greater or less degree of idiocy existed; perfectly unimpaired intellectual powers I never witnessed with this lesion. 5 See above, p. 95. The other muscles, too, of the forearm, as well as the flexor radialis, were greatly atrophied.