COLD IN SURGERY. 323 Amongst the prejudices which exist against the use of cold the most common are those which relate to its employment in inflammation of internal and deeper-seated organs, and which are founded on the notion that it is strictly contra-indicated in all diseases which have originated in the patient's catching cold, and especially in the varieties of so-called rheumatic inflammation. The first of these prejudices has been removed in many quarters by the success of the hydro- pathic doctors, and I am happy to see that Niemeyer, in his excel- lent ‘ Handbook of Special Pathology and Therapeutics/ has recently recommended the use of cold in various internal inflammations, especially in pneumonia, croup, and cynanche, in pericarditis and peritonitis. I can corroborate his observations in many points, but am anxious to convince him how much more efficaciously and con- veniently cold may be applied in the way I have described than in the form of cold compresses, ice-cravats, &c. As bearing on this subject, I may just mention that my friend and colleague, Professor Bartels, made use of cold, by means of wet sheets frequently changed, in an epidemic of measles which occurred in the course of this year in Kiel and the surrounding districts, as a remedy for the supervening pneumonia, which was very prevalent, especially amongst children of the lower classes. He had better results from this than from any other mode of treatment. Cold does not act with equally good effect in all forms of cynanche tonsillaris. In those which are marked by dark, erysipelatous redness and slight swelling of the mucous membrane stimulating linaments act more beneficially than continuous abstraction of heat; but, on the other hand, the ice-bag is the best remedy for the cases which incline to the formation of abscesses. I will relate the follow- ing case as a striking example. A.friend of mine, a man, set. 40, complained to me that ever since he was ten years old he had suffered in the winter time, at least once, but often more frequently, from violent cynanche tonsillaris, which had led every time, with severe pain, to the formation of abscess, and this had not been prevented by any of the various modes of treatment he had under- gone. I advised him, as soon as he felt the next attack coming on, to place an ice-bag on his neck. Soon after this it happened that he was seized by his usual complaint a night or two before an important journey which he had to make. He followed my advice, and under the influence of cold the inflammation went off in a few hours, without formation of abscess. This same rapid cure was