12 LARYNGOSCOPE. stem, where they are the strongest, towards all other points; I do not, however, attach any very great importance to this. The whole mass of the mirror possesses a relative value, because it determines partly the time during which the reflecting surface preserves the temperature necessary for preventing its being tarnished by the condensation of aqueous vapours. The speedy cooling and tarnishing of the mirror are always troublesome at the commencement of laryngoscopic studies, so long as we can only determine by repeated trials a suitable place for its position. Tor the purpose of preventing the cooling of the mirror as much as possible, it is generally necessary to impart to it as high a tem- perature as can be borne without inconvenience by the person under examination. A less elevated temperature suffices to prevent the tarnishing of the mirror for a sufficient length of time, when its bulk is con- siderable. As soon as the mirror is getting cool, we observe a deposit of moisture upon it at each expiration, which at first is more or less dispelled at each inspiration. We heat the mirror, either by plunging it in hot water, thus following Liston's plan, or by holding it above a flame which does not smoke, exposing not the back, but the surface only, to the flame, as I have elsewhere pointed out (‘Bib./ No. i). The mirror ought to be of glass or speculum metal, and better still of steel. Glass mirrors are usually mounted in metal, but it is preferable to choose for this purpose bodies that are bad conductors of heat. This mounting becomes useless for metallic mirrors. At all times it will prove of advantage to encase the reverse of the mirror with a substance which is a bad conductor. By this means the coolin" of the mirror could be retarded, and at the same time it could be brought to a higher degree of temperature, without inconveniencing the person who is being examined. The stem which is attached to the mirror should possess a cer- tain degree of stiffness, and a length of from three to four inches, from the point of its insertion up to the handle. The obtuse angle, at which the mirror is inclined upon the stem, is situated in a plane running perpendicularly to the surface of the mirror through that of its two diagonals, which contains the point