LEFT HEMISPHERE OF THE BRAIN. 165 importance, for nutrition and growth, of the presence of these ganglia; but I will add that, so far as my observations extend, need of it, against the position of those who consider the growth of the muscular system to be dependent on the influence of the nervous system.” I regret that I cannot assent to these conclusions of my esteemed friend. In the first place, that these nerve-filaments which appeared as connective tissue should originally have existed under that form, I cannot admit. Why did they then exhibit themselves in their peripheric extremities, as well formed and filled with nerve-medulla ? If we trace the first growth of the nerves, we shall find that they do not begin with the formation of connective tissue; on the contrary, the darker edge and the stronger sheath are as yet scarcely discoverable, as has been shown by Schwann (fMikrosk. Untersuch.,5 tab. iv, fig. 8), and subsequently by Kolliker (‘Mikrosk. Anat.,5 pp. 396 and 536 et, seq.). It is, in my opinion, evident that the nerve-bundles are, in this case, in the first instance well formed, but that, by the rupture of the cerebral vesicle and the destruction of the brain, they are broken up aud subsequently atrophied, with the loss of the contents of the nerve-tube, and the final contraction of the neurilema. It is particularly worthy of note that the ganglionic globules in the Gasserian ganglion were well formed, affording a proof that nervous influence was still capable of extending peripherically from the globules after the destruction of the brain, since the extremities of the nerves were in general sound. In the spinal cord, on the other hand, which was not destroyed, the central terminations were also sound, so that, apparently, the destruction of the central terminations of the nerves was connected with the destruction of the centres themselves. I cannot admit that acrania might be a congenital malformation, and not dependent, like anencephalia, on a previous rupture of the cerebral vesicle, as my friend has represented in his ‘Handboek derziekte- kundige ontleedkunde 5 (‘Manual of Morbid Anatomy5), D. i, p. 494; and in the ‘ Tabula? ad illustrandam Embryogenesin,5 tab. xliv, fig. 6, resting his views chiefly on the case of a foetus of two months, where it was believed hydrocephalus could not have existed; but the brain is formed much earlier, and the foetus represented in fig. 5, borrowed from Tiedemann, which was even smaller, still contained remnants of the burst cyst, and refutes such an opinion. Lastly, that the frontal, occipital, and temporal muscles should have formed independently, and, in the absence of the cranium, should have placed themselves arbitrarily on the base of the skull, appears to me to be wholly inadmissible; on the contrary, they show that they occur primarily in their natural situation, and on the collapse of the cerebral cyst are displaced from it; indeed, if each part forms independently in the situation to which it belongs, the rule does not hold good here, as the base of the skull is not the proper seat of these muscles. Eurther, the presence of the nerve-fibres, which are imperceptibly lost among the muscular tissue, clearly proves that, where muscular fibres exist, nerves belonging to them are also met with, especially as the peripheric extremities of the facial nerve are said to have been healthy; and this is not denied of the branches of the fifth pair. In my opinion, Weber, in particular, has explained the point in question in a