122 THROMBOSIS OF THE or in both lateral sinuses simultaneously, an unequal distension of the external jugulars cannot be observed. In some few cases, indeed, distension of individual veins of the face is mentioned, which might be referred to the thrombosis of the sinuses, but cannot be employed as an aid to diagnosis, any more than the epistaxis in the case communicated by me. It has already been remarked that, amongst the fifty-seven cases of thrombosis of the sinuses which furnished me with materials for this paper, there are six in which the production of the thrombus cannot be [properly explained, either from want of a sufficiently detailed report or for other reasons. To complete the sketch, I will give them briefly here; and we shall find that in some of them, by help of the data furnished above, we may infer with great probability at least the mode of their causation. Case 50.—Abercrombie1 mentions an observation by Prichard, in which, in a woman who had suffered from epilepsy for two years, and who died in an epileptic fit not preceded by other symptoms, the left lateral sinus was filled by a coagulum which resembled organized lymph. How far the retardation of the circulation in the veins from the repeated epileptic attacks, or an unrecognised process of disease in the bone, may have led to the coagulation in the sinus, I cannot undertake to determine. I will only remark that epileptic attacks are mentioned in a case given by Puchelt,2 in which caries of the petrous bone was the cause of the thrombosis. Case 51.—Cruveilhier3 gives the following post-mortem appear- ances, with a plate. I11 the superior longitudinal sinus of a girl, set. 22, was found a dark, partly discoloured, very firm, and very adherent plug, which showed signs of puriform softening in some parts of its interior. The veins communicating with it contained stiff thrombi. Capillary apoplexy and yellow softening over a consi- derable extent of both hemispheres of the cerebrum. Prom the character of the very firm thrombus, which was softened 1 Loc. citat., p. 60; and Prichard, ‘Diseases of the Nervous System/ 276. 2 Loc. citat., ii, 177. 3 *Anat. Pathol./ liv. 36, pi. 1, fig. 1.