ON THE USE OE 308 still continuously used, from twelve to twenty leeches at a time (in all 204) were, on several occasions, applied. On the sixteenth day pus, mixed with blood, oozed through the wound. The lower suture was therefore taken away, and now the slightest pressure on the distended cavity of the joint made a quantity of healthy pus flow out of the wound. But pressure was carefully avoided, and the appli- cation of ice was energetically continued. If it was left off for a moment the patient felt at once the most violent pain. The suppu- ration soon began to get less. No more pus oozed out of the wound, the swelling of the joint diminished more and more, and at the end of the fourth week the ice had to be discontinued, as it became disagreeable to the patient. At this time the wound was almost entirely cicatrized, the swelling of the joint had nearly disappeared, and the general health of the patient was excellent. As soon as the wound was skinned over, a starch bandage was put on, and the patient went with it out of the hospital. After four weeks the ban- dage was removed; tlie joint then presented a normal appearance, and its power of motion was scarcely impaired. Case 6.— Wound of joint; application of ice during eight days. —II. M—, a working man, set. 17, wounded himself with a straw- chopping instrument in the back of his right hand. The wound was deep and irregular. The tendon of the extensor of the second finger was divided, and the second metacarpo-phalangeal joint was opened. A piece of bone, covered with cartilage, of the size of a lentil, and belonging to the articular surface of the second meta- carpal bone, was cut off and was hanging loosely from the capsule of the joint. This small bit of bone was entirely removed, and the wound well closed by sutures. The hand was carefully fixed on a splint, and an ice-bag was placed on the wound. At the end of eight days the wound had healed by first intention, and the joint had completely retained its power of motion. Case 7.—Suppuration of the hn^e joint in consequence of a per- forating icound; application of ice during seven weeks.—H. S—, an agricultural labourer, hurt his knee-joint with a hatchet, making a perforating wound at the outer side of the patella. Immediately after the accident the wound was closed by means of sutures and treated by cold compresses, repeated local bleeding, and calomel. Under this treatment the wound skinned over, but violent inflam-