ON THE USE OF 3.26 i 859, by rheumatic fever, and at the beginning the only treatment was the application of cotton-wool and camphor liniment to the affected joints. All this time she had extreme pain, and had not a moment's sleep. Dr. Nissen was sent for on the 29th of November. He found the patient very feverish (the pulse being 136), and moaning aloud with pain. The knee, ankle, wrist, elbow, and several finger- joints of the right side were swollen, fluctuating, red, and not oidy tender to the touch, but violently painful. The left knee was tender, but not yet visibly swollen. The heart was free. Some digitalis was ordered, and a dose of morphia for the night. All the affected joints were surrounded by ice-bags. The next day he found his patient much better. The violence of the pain abated almost im- mediately after the application of the ice; the woman slept well for several hours, and felt altogether much relieved. The pulse was now only 90, and it was therefore thought unnecessary to order any more digitalis. Those joints which had been treated by ice were now much less painful than the left knee-joint; and the woman implored him to place an ice-bag on the latter also. During the next day or two the right shoulder and the left ankle-joint became affected, and were at once covered by ice-bags. The inflammation of the previously affected joints was rapidly subsiding. On the morning of the 4th of December, the patient had a sudden attack of palpitation and pain in the region of the heart. Dr. Nissen saw her six hours afterwards, and found her very feverish (the pulse being 144). There wTas a distinct pericardial friction-sound, and the dulness in the region of the heart was considerably increased The heart-sounds were normal. He ordered some digitalis inter- nally, and eight leeches, followed by a large ice-bag to be applied to the heart. On the 5th of December, the patient's uneasiness was much diminished; the pulse was 108, but auscultation and per- cussion gave the same results as before. The digitalis and the ice were continued. On the 6th of December the pulse was 100; the pericardial friction-sound was less loud; the woman stated that she felt quite well. The symptoms of inflammation had completely sub- sided in the joints of the right leg, with the exception of a very little fluctuation which vras detected in the knee. The application of ice to all those joints was discontinued. On the 9th, all the joints were free, the friction-sound was scarcely to be heard, and the general health was excellent. All the other ice-bags were removed, including that on the heart, instead of which latter a