78 APPENDIX ON RHINOSCOPY. the velum covers the lower part of the posterior nares, and limits considerably the view into the nasal cavity. If the mirror is now brought by degrees from a lower into a higher position (from x to x), and at the same time its inclination and the direction of vision and light be likewise changed in all pos- sible ways, it is evident that the whole of the space that is at all accessible to the eye, must present itself from the most varied points of view. The space that is susceptible to vision in one and the same indi- vidual, will, of course, depend upon the opening of the mouth, the isthmus faucium, and the nasal valve (velum); also upon the posi- tion of the nasal fossae, relative to the pharynx, which is shown, by the way in which the base of the skull is bent towards the axis of the vertebral column. Tor the special examinalion of the different parts, I consider a more minute description to be useless and superfluous to a thinking physician, unless some never-failing directions could be given which, considering the numerous diversities presenting themselves, is a mat- ter of impossibility. Tinally, I will bring before the reader a few rhinoscopic cases, which came under ray observation, not that they are of great patho- logical interest, but because they prove the possibility of applying the rhinoscope to medical purposes. Case i.—Slight deafness, rhinoscopy, good view of the walls of the pharyngo-nasal cavity, Sfc. At the hospital of the Yal de Grace in Paris, where (April 18th, i860,) I demonstrated my different methods of application of the Liston-Garcia's principle in presence of Dr. Michel Levy and many other military physicians, a slightly deaf person was brought before me for the inspection of his pharyngo-nasal vault. I readily succeeded without difficulty in making the first attempt; the patient depressed his tongue himself with a rectangularly bent spatula; I then took the palate-hook with my left hand, and intro- duced with the right, one of my small laryngeal mirrors. The mucous membrane which covered the walls of the pharyngo- nasal cavity, the posterior nares, &c., was everywhere observed to be of a lively-red hue, associated with some slight swelling, The orifices