ARITHMETIC MEANS. 205 state of things that could occur,, though, nevertheless, a possible one, would be that each observation should be either too large or too small by a. If, therefore, a series contained, say io observations, their sum would be either too large or too small by ioaj and in like manner the Arithmetic Mean would be in error by10 a i. e. by a. 10 Further, if thejnfluences operating during the periods when the serial observations A and B were made were of such a nature that their daily average effect, supposing that the supplementary agency were not tonnterfere, were for series A always exactly the same, then the difference between P and p, viz., P—p, wTould express rigorously the daily average influence, and we should infer that its effect was of an augmenting or diminishing nature in proportion as we found P > p or p > P. But P and p are unknown, all that we know being that P lies between m — a and m + a, and p between n — a and n + a. If, therefore, we wish to be certain that there has been, for instance, a real increase in the excretions, i. e. that P > p, we must have m— a > n + a, since it is possible that P — m — a and p — n + a. Hence, what we must compare are not the Means m and n which we obtain from the two series of observations, but the numbers m — a and n + a,—i. e. in the above illustration, 31.8 and 31.2. Since it follows obviously from m — a > n + a that m — n > 2 a, we may avail ourselves of the following expression : In order to allow us, in the case under consideration, to come to the conclusion that the excretions have been increased, the difference between the Means (viz. m — n) must be greater than the double of the largest possible error of observation, i. e. greater than the sum of the uncertainties of these Means. In the same manner, if we~wish to be certain of a diminution having taken place, i. e. that p > P, we must find that n—m > % a, since the difference between p and P may be less by 2 a than that between n and m (i. e. since we may have p — n — a and P = m -p a). The fulfilment of the above-mentioned condition, viz., that after eliminating the operation of the supplementary agency the average excretion in series A should equal the average in series B, can never be calculated on in practice®; hence it is necessary thoroughly to investigate the circumstances in which it is not fulfilled,