204 THE IMPORTANCE OE determinations, the check of determinations by weight be employed, as was done by Boecker) as unnecessary, since the errors of measure- ment, when contrasted with the other irregularities, are altogether unimportant. Those which arise from the greater or less completeness with which the bladder may be emptied must be placed to the score of varying influences, and of the accompanying physical conditions on each occasion, so that their equalization may find account in the eventual increase of the day’s observation. Section YII.—Comparison of the Means of several complete series of observations of variable quantities. Let us suppose that two series of observations, of a nature analogous to those described in the previous paragraph, are instituted on the same individual, during one of which he is ex- posed to a given agency, whose influence on the excretions we wish to ascertain. The question which we have to determine is if, and to what extent, the Arithmetic Means of the two series, which, in accordance with the previous paragraph, exhibit an approximate value to the averages, can give any conclusion on the point. With the view of answering this question, I shall proceed to lay down certain fundamental principles in the present paragraph. We will call the series in which the supplementary agency has operated A, and the other series B; the Arithmetic Mean of the first series m; that of the second, n; and indicate the limits of accuracy of the individual observations by a. If the observations had been completely free from error, we should have had instead of m another number, which I will call P; and in the place of n another number, p. P and p are, then, what has been above called mean quantities. Suppose, for instance, that the question were a comparison of quantities of urea, and that series A gave 32.4 as a mean, and series I? 30.6, and also that in the determination of urea the greatest error that should occur is .6; then would m ~ 32.4, n ="30.6, and a = .6. The value of P would therefore lie between m—a and m + a, i. e. between 31.8 and 33 ; the value of p between n—a and n + a, i. e. between 30 and 31.2, since the limits of uncertainty are the same for the Arithmetic Mean itself as for each of the individual observations. As a is the greatest supposable error of any one observation, the most unfavorable