166 ATROPHY OF THE wherever such a ganglion was either absent or destroyed, the part which should receive nerves from it has not been developed; it may therefore have begun to be formed in the original design of the foetus, but for want of the vegetative influence of the nerve it has not grown and is absent, while, so far as I know, no example of the tolerably decisive manner in his excellent essay, “ Ueber die Abhangigkeit der Entstehung der animalischen Muskeln von den animalischen Nerven,” in * Yer- handlungen der Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Leipzig. Math. Phys. Classe,’ 1849, iii St., pp. 136 et seq., fig. 1. He adds three cases (two observed by Alessandrini in Bologna), where a considerable portion of the spinal cord was wantiug, aud in which all the parts where no animal nerves existed, including the muscular fibres, were absent, so that while, for example, blood-vessels and lymphatics were present in the lower extremities, and the animal nerves which should accompany them were wholly wanting, the tendons of the muscles were present, but the muscular fibres which should occupy the space intervening were absent (1. c., p. 139)—a really remarkable phenomenon. On the other hand, the skin, cartilage, bone, synovial membranes, and apo- neuroses, were present with the tendons, without animal nerves. Weber cor- rectly remarks (1. c., p. 142), that the absence of the muscular fibres, under these circumstances, cannot be looked upon as the effect of a cause hindering their formation, by acting directly on the formative matter, as in that case neither could the development of the adjoining blood-vessels have taken place. Alessandrini’s observation is of great importance in reference to this point, that the cord of the sympathetic ceased where there were no longer any spinal nerves, the sympathetic now consisting of trunks of the so-called splanchnic nerves, which were much thicker than usual; an unusually large solar plexus had formed around the abdominal aorta, and the plexuses and ganglia proceeding from it were developed in an extraordinary degree. From the mesenteric plexus very large plexuses, with interspersed ganglia, proceeded around the abdominal aorta, accompanying the branches of the latter, so that Alessandrini was able to trace them on the internal and external iliac arteries. He suspects that this unusual extension of the sympathetic occupied the place of the deficient cord of the nerve, and that hence branches arose for the parts in which the animal nerves were wanting (1. c., p. 197); it will therefore be necessary to investigate whether the skin and bones can be developed without sympathetic nerves. Lastly, Alessandrini found in a pig, where the spinal cord terminated at the thirteenth spinal nerve, that in the first four caudal vertebrae a new portion of spinal cord again began, with nerves springing from it, and that muscles again appeared in the tail. This quite confirms what I formerly communicated in 1826, in my f Observ. Anat. Path.,’ p. 9, respecting two monsters, in one of which the lower part of the spinal cord was absent, and with it the nerves and muscles were also wanting, while in the other a fresh portion of spinal cord began, and with it nerves and muscles were again connected. Weber further quotes the case of a child with acrania and absence of spinal cord, where, however, the muscles aud also the nerves were normally present,