328 ON THE USE OF heart. The left wrist and shoulder and the right elbow-joint were first affected. They were found in the morning swollen, red, and very painful. The patient sweated much; his tongue was dry, and he was very thirsty. The pulse was 96. On auscultation and per- cussion there was nothing abnormal to be detected in the cardiac region. All the affected joints were covered with ice-bags, and as in the course of this and the following day most of the other joints became also affected, there were no less than twenty-one ice-bags used at a time. The patient was ordered 1 gr. of tartar emetic in 6 oz. of water, of which a tablespoonful was to be taken every two hours. He stated that he felt much relief from the ice. On the evening of the fol- lowing day the pains had considerably diminished. The pulse was 96, there was no more palpitation of the heart, the tongue had become moist, the thirst had disappeared. The swelling of the knees was but slight, and they were scarcely painful even on pres- sure. On the 19th of April the pulse was 84. Two or three of the joints only remained a little painful; the knees were no longer tender on pressure. The appetite began to improve. The ice-bags were removed, one after the other, from the joints as they got well. On the 33d all symptoms of rheumatism had disappeared. None of the joints was now swollen, and even the knees seemed to have recovered their normal size. Each measured now 36 centimeters in circum- ference. The pulse was 76, the tongue was clean, the appetite enor- mous. On the 29th of April the man went out of the hospital perfectly restored, and was able at once to resume his work. The cases and facts communicated in this paper will serve, I hope, to illustrate and confirm the views which I have ventured to express, at least so far as to direct the attention of my colleagues to a subject which seems to me to be highly deserving of minute consideration and investigation. I am well aware that the questions which I have here raised are most extensive, and that I have not entered into them profoundly enough, although I may have trespassed too much already on the patience of my readers. The histories of the cases I have given cannot be regarded as furnishing positive proof, but are simply examples to illustrate what I have observed in numerous cases of a similar kind. I have recorded them as briefly as I possibly could, with the wish not to tire the reader.