COLD IN SURGERY. 297 that all wounds must absolutely be treated by cold. This would be denying the healing power of nature. I have often enough seen simple and clean-cut wounds healing by first intention, without anything else having been applied but sutures and a compress or a bandage. Some wounds, as, for instance, those with loss of skin after operations, must be left to heal with suppuration. In sucli cases, by continuously applying cold, we should probably retard the cure. I therefore use it only during the first day, to relieve the pain of the wound, and never proceed with it except there is reason to fear that the inflammation may spread to important organs. I am also well aware that even very severe wounds heal some- times in a remarkably short period without the application of cold, when the natural healing process is not interfered with. This is the chief reason of the efficiency, in cases of compound fracture, of firm bandages (starch, plaster of Paris, &c.), to which their advocates attribute such great antiphlogistic powers. They protect the injured part from many bad influences which are apt to disturb the healing process, especially from motion, exposure to air, and improper treat- ment. I shall not complain if, in this sense, antiphlogistic power is attributed to them. Although firm bandages fulfil, in the most simple and certain way, the chief condition, namely, absolute rest and immobility of the injured part, which is requisite to the favorable progress of the healing process, they have, on the other hand, the disadvantage of concealing the part from our eyes, and of preventing us from inter- fering in time with any inflammation which may arise. Por this reason they will probably never supersede the treatment by cold in the worst forms of injury, namely, gunshot wounds. In these cases it is generally inflammation of important parts, especially of bones and joints, which tends to render the issue of the case an unfortunate one, and which, at any price, must be suppressed at the very beginning. During the Danish war the surgeons of the Schleswig-Holstein army had ample opportunity of convincing themselves of the excellent effects of the cooling treatment in cases of gunshot wounds. The results have been published, partly by myself, in my paper on ‘ Besectionen nach Schusswunden/ but espe- cially in Stromeyer’s f Maximen der Kriegsheilkunst/ and to these writings I now refer. At that time I was but a novice in surgery, and although I was fully convinced of the excellency of this method of treatment, I had but little experience of the results of other