LEFT HEMISPHERE OF THE BRAIN. 141 from the antero-superior spine of the ilium to the posterior tuberosity adjoining the sacrum it measured, on the left 136, and on the right T32 mm.1 It is evident that the atrophy of the right side of the body is most closely connected with that of the right half of the spinal cord and of the left hemisphere of the brain. It is remarkable that, as I shall show, this atrophy is almost invariably more strongly marked in the upper than in the lower extremities. This coincides with the fact that in hemiplegia the leg is usually less affected and recovers earlier and more completely than the arm. The intimate connexion of the cerebro-spinal system with the nerves is particularly well shown in the remarkable atrophy of the ganglia of the sensory nerves on the right side; for this reason I have represented as accurately as possible the ganglia of the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves in Tig. Y, where the considerable difference in size at once strikes the eye. The different thickness and breadth of the ganglia and of the nerve-trunks, shortly after the two roots have united to form a trunk, have been determined with a micro- meter, which readily shows a variation of one tenth of a millimetre on a scale appended to it. The results of the measurements will be found in the following table : Ganglia of the Cervical Nerves. Direction of the measurement. Right. <D Difference. Trunk of the Nerves. Direction of the measurement. Right. 1 Difference.! < 5th Ganglion 6th Ganglion i 7tli Ganglion J breadth \ thickness J breadth \ thickness f breadth \ thickness 3-8 2*2 4'i 2*5 5* 3*i 5-i 39 3-8 5*6 46 i'3 i*7 i'3 o’6 1‘5 5th Nerve ... 6th Nerve ... 7th Nerve ... f breadth \ thickness f breadth 1 thickness f breadth \ thickness 2*9 i‘3 26 24 37 3'3 1 3*8 2*2 3*4 ‘2-6 4*3 37 0-9 o’9 o-8 o-2 ; 06 | 0-4 ! 1 1 This rendered the pelvis somewhat oblique. Weber, too, gives a drawing of the pelvis in the case of atrophy of the brain observed by him. It is, however, not easy to deduce a definite inference from his drawing; the left side of the sacrum was broader, and accordingly the entire left half of the pelvis was more spacious, more like the female pelvis; the right portion was smaller, but at the same time the bones on the right side were thicker, the acetabulum was larger, the os ilium was more bulky and broader. The atrophy of the brain existed on the right side, so that probably the left half of the pelvis must have been the atrophied portion. (See * Act. Nat. Curios.,’ 1828,