324 ON THE USE OF effected several times under similar circumstances, but during the last winter he had no attack of inflammation at all, and is, of course, most thankful for the advice I gave him. In reference to the other prejudice, that the application of cold is obnoxious in cases of rheumatic inflammation, I most urgently give the advice, henceforth and for ever, to abandon this old pre- judice. Probably the fact that wet, as a rule, is not well borne in rheumatic affections, has been the origin of it. In using dry cold, I have never met with the so-called rheumatic metastases which are dreaded by so many medical men. Por a long time now I have treated by cold, and with the best results, rheumatic inflammation of single joints or of bones and muscles. I have myself several times during the winter been attacked by painful inflammation of the sheaths of the muscles of the forearm, when, somewhat heated from the per- formance of bloody operations, I have forgotten to pull my shirt- sleeves down, which I had drawn high up under my light coat, and, thus exposed, have led my pupils through the draughty spaces of the hospital. "When, the next morning, I have found the muscles painful and swollen, I have placed an ice-bag for several hours on the tender spot, and the result has been that in a very short time the pain and the inflammation have disappeared. But also in acute rheumatism of joints, accompanied by fever and metastases of inflammation from one joint to another, I have in several cases made use of dry cold with the best results. Some years ago Professor Stromeyer told me he had observed that acute rheu- matism ran a much more favorable course under the cooling treatment than under any other. He has since published his views on the subject in the second edition of his f Maximen der Kriegs- heilkunst/ p. 2$. This, of course, confirmed me still more in the opinion I had formed. Last year a young physician, a near relative of mine, was attacked by violent acute rheumatism. I took him at once into the hospital, and applied cold to every affected joint, and this with a better result than I have ever witnessed from any other mode of treatment. I will give a brief history of the case. Case 17.—Acute rheumatism; application of ice for eight clays.'— The patient, who was a strong man, set. 24, had been out boating in the middle of January, 1859, clothes, whilst a cold east wind was blowing. The next day the right wrist-joint was somewhat swollen and tender. On the 20th of January both knee-joints