LEFT HEMISPHERE OF THE BRAIN. 169 inflammation and dilatation of the blood-vessels. In my case of unilateral atrophy the same thing occurred; the cerebral mem- branes were very much thickened and inflamed upon the atrophied side, as I have represented in Eig. IV, a, b, c; the left inner surface of the skull, too (Eigs. I, II), exhibits much deeper grooves for the blood-vessels, and the opening for the arteria meningea media (Eig. I, r) is wider than on the other side. I suspect that the dura mater has in these cases been irritated, and that thereby its external layer (which, as Arnold correctly remarks,1 does not properly belong to the dura mater, but is a true periosteum) has been disposed to secrete an increased amount of osseous matter, and has thus caused the thickening of the skull. But if this irritation has not taken place, the space created by the atrophy of the brain is filled simply by an increased effusion of serum. In reference to this point, however, I cannot wholly forbear remarking that, as atrophy of the ganglia produces atrophy in the parts which receive nerves from them, the reverse has also occurred to me in several cases, where I have seen redness and inflammation of these ganglia combined with inflammation in the peripheric portion of the nerves belonging to them. I saw this particularly clearly in a case of pneumonia in a cow, where not only the vagus was inflamed in different places, but great redness of its ganglion and softness of its roots existed; and in a second case in a cow, where the tongue and larynx with the trachea were extremely inflamed, the mucous membrane of the last named exhibiting quite an extraordinary degree of thickness and redness; the nervus lingualis, plexus pharyngeus, and ganglion cervicale superius, were likewise swollen, very red, and even purplish. I have likewise seen great redness and swelling of the ganglion secundum vagi in severe pneumonia in a man. In post-mortem examinations of cases of inflammation, too little attention is paid to the state of these ganglia. I shall not here enter into a detailed 1 E. Arnoldi, e Annotations anatom, de velamentis Cerebri,’ Tur., 1838, cap. i, pp. 7 et seq. Sometimes these two laminse are separated by an effusion of blood. Of this I have two remarkable specimens in my collection; in one the dura mater is separated over the greater part of one hemisphere of the brain into two layers, between which an extraordinarily great quantity of blood is effused; on the brain, which is flatly compressed by the blood, the arachnoid and pia mater are sound, and are not adherent to the dura mater. In this case, therefore, the dura mater is everywhere separated from the true periosteum internum, through which the arteria meningea media runs.