LARYNGOSCOPE, 62 When the patient had got over a fit of coughing that was quite insignificant, which had been caused by the irritation, I convinced myself, by another laryngoscopic examination, that there existed two white eschars, clearly limited upon the parts described. We could now consider the cauterization as having completely succeeded. There was no doubt that the precision of this operation was due only to the application of the laryngoscope. In fact, this instrument alone allowed the eye to guide the hand, and to obtain that precision in the operation which, up to the present time, has been but a lucky chance. I likewise cauterized the patient of whom I spoke in Case 6, and whose aphonia was produced by a. swelling of the superior vocal cords. I repeatedly used in this case either a pencil or a small sponge dipped into a solution of nitrate of silver, and have directly operated upon the false vocal cords by means of the laryngoscope several times in presence of my colleagues. There can no longer exist the least doubt upon the possibility of operating by this proceeding. It should not even be allowed, for the future, to execute this operation otherwise than with the aid of the laryngoscope, because this method alone allows the hand to be directed, and to reach with certainty the fixed points within the larynx; whilst not unfrequently, up to the present, the epiglottis has been depressed, and its anterior surface has been cauterized, trusting to chance whether the medications would find their way into the larynx or not. I shall recall in this place the fact, that the aphonia of the patient whose superior vocal cords were submitted to this treat- ment was improved, but only for a short time, so that he could utter some sounds after an aphonia existing for many years. It is necessary to remark that in this patient, and also in others, the cauterization of these very sensitive parts produced an irritation so insignificant, that it might have been believed to have failed in its purpose, if we had not seen the caustic holder penetrate into the larynx, and if the white eschars were not manifested upon the superior vocal cords. I have chosen some rare examples from among the pathological observations which I made in 1859 by the aid of the laryngoscope, and which I owe (not practising myself) to the kindness of my respected friends in Pesth especially; I add them to the preceding. The greater part of them I have illustrated in rapid sketches, as I should give them in an oral lecture.