PHYSIOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 37 raised, and no more in contact with the posterior wall of the pharvnx. The glottis is widely open, and we perceive a considerable portion of the anterior wall of the trachea. We now distinctly see a small rounded swelling, which the lateral border of the epiglottis has until then concealed from view; it is situated to the outer side of the tubercles previously described, which correspond to the cartilages of Santorini. We scarcely yet perceive an indication of the ventricles of Morgagni and the false vocal cords. Nevertheless, it is as well to make some remarks upon the manner in which the internal parts of the larynx arrange themselves to pro- duce the emission of the voice. In fact, as soon as we wish to utter a sound, the two arytenoid cartilages raise themselves in the fold of mucous membrane which covers them, and approach one another with surprising mobility and complete freedom. It follows that the vocal cords are drawn together by the arytenoid processes, more or less convergent, and they become more prominent and constrict the glottis. Sufficient attention and practice will make the investi- gator master of the movements performed by the arytenoid cartilages; he can then accelerate them, retard, or arrest them, and also examine the changes according as they take place. Eig. 3, of Plate II, represents the arrangement of the parts when the air hitherto silently expired produces by degrees the vibrations of the vocal cords. The period represented seemed to me to correspond to that of the “ gentle breathing ” of Purkinje. Having thus seen the preliminary arrangements only, it is now desirable to study the manner in which the future changes for the production of sounds are brought about. It is almost impossible to study the gravest chest sounds, because the arytenoid cartilages become elevated, they rapidly approach one another almost in com- plete contact (Plate II, fig. 4), and bend under the border of the depressed epiglottis, in such a manner that the latter entirely conceals the interior of the larynx. We observe that, in figure 4, the posterior surfaces of the arytenoid cartilages are clearly in contact; there remains sufficient space between them and the epi- glottis for the passage of air, but it is impossible to give to the laryngoscope a convenient position for the purpose of exploring the interior of the larynx; perhaps this may be accomplished by the employment of double mirrors. Nevertheless, the examination of the larynx can be done during the emission of the less grave chest sounds, especially when they are