255 ARITHMETIC MEANS. Professor Badicke, will stand or fall with, the correctness of the two following theses, which I believe to be not unworthy of consideration, viz.: (i.) We will suppose that an effect (such as that of a diminution in the amount of urine from a rise of the temperature of the air) may be assumed as a priori certain upon irrefragable physiological grounds, so that any researches upon questions connected with it are only instituted with the view of ascertaining, so far as possible, the magnitude of the effect which the agency in question exerts. Por this purpose re- searches are instituted, and numerical values obtained, whose ultimate Means substantiate the assumed influence. Is, now, the result of these researches entirely unworthy of confidence if the differences of the numbers thus empirically obtained still lie within the limits which the calculus of probabilities defines as those within which (irrespective of other considerations) no conclusion as to the influence of the supposed agency can be properly admitted ? * Certainly not! For, to supplement the formal deficiency of the researches, grounds of conviction from the nature of the case itself come into opera- tion which are not amenable to the logic of the calculus of proba- bilities. If this assumption is allowed, the objections which Badicke makes to the probability of Kaupp’s assertions as to the influence of heat on the amount of urine lose a portion of their weight.1 (2.) A single series of observations on one individual leads to a certain number as an ultimate Mean; this latter labours under the formal error just referred to in (1). But in this case there are no, or at least only the slightest intrinsic reasons upon which to base a material criticism of the result. Suppose, now, that a second series of observations on the same question is instituted on another in- dividual ; and that it gives analogous results, and is open to the same errors. Any conclusion deduced from a single series is, so far as it alone goes, only to be admitted with caution; but when 1 At the conclusion of his paper, Professor Badicke indicates the researches in question as “ only favouring, but not proving,55 the assumption of the influence of heat on the amount of the urine. This unexpected admission brings him as near as possible to the view which I myself take of the matter. Kaupp pursued two paths for the purpose of statistically testing the influence of temperature; and as he spontaneously abandons one and follows up the other (which Professor Badicke asserts is the better of the two), he obviously does not deserve the blame of having exclusively pursued the former of these. In questions of this kind, even the least promising and justifiable paths ought not to be altogether neglected.