149 LEFT HEMISPHERE OF THE BRAIN. corpus olivare on the atrophied side appeared to be somewhat smaller, although not so much wasted as the corpus pyramidale. It is remarkable that Cruveilhier, in a case of atrophy of the two hemi- spheres, found the corpora pyramidalia likewise on both sides atrophied, while the corpora olivaria, on the contrary, were very highly developed. Hence it would seem to follow, that the corpora olivaria are less directly related to the cerebrum than the corpora pyramidalia; this point must, however, be decided by future inves- tigations.1 Of the medulla oblongata itself, and its greater tenuity and atrophy beneath the decussation on the opposite side, not one of the writers speaks, and it would seem that no one has observed it. Neverthe- less, it appears, from Weber's drawing, that this state of things existed in his case, although he makes no mention of it, notwithstand- ing that the difference is strikingly represented.2 I believe that if an accurate investigation had been instituted in every case, unilateral atrophy of the spinal cord on the paralysed side would, in most instances, have been discovered. From this brief retrospect we see that atrophy of the corpora Striata and thalami is by far the most frequent attendant on wasting of the cerebrum. It appears to me to be probable that, at least in the majority of instances, the lesion in these parts commenced in consequence of inflauimation; thus, the largest blood-vessels from the base of the brain here pass inwards, and the corpora striata, in par- ticular, belong to the most vascular parts of the brain, while the white medullary matter, which constitutes the mass of the cerebrum (centrum semiovale Vieussensii), derives its vessels chiefly from those of the corpora striata, and scarcely at all from the cortical substance; satisfactory reasons why, if inflammation arises in these central parts, it should very easily extend to the surrounding medullary matter and produce softening. But as it is well known that the pia mater covering the brain externally very easily conveys its affections to its prolongations investing the cerebral cavities, as is so commonly seen in old cases of insanity and dementia, the inflammation at this earlier period of life may in some cases have spread from without to the 1 cAnat. Path.,’ livr. v. “Idiotie,” obs. 2, p. 5. The greater size of the cor- pus olivare may sometimes be apparent, as, where the corpora pyramidalia are much atrophied, the corpora olivaria must be more prominent. I have already spoken of Carswell’s case, where the corpus olivare was really smaller on the atrophied side.