LETT HEMISPHERE OP THE BRAIN. 133 of this condition to be found in the works of modern writers the examinations made have been too superficial, and the details of the differences between the healthy and morbidly affected parts have not been traced with sufficient accuracy. In the year 1844 I received from Amsterdam a body to be used at my anatomical lectures, and having been informed that it was that of an idiotic girl, I opened the skull with care. As to her previous history, I received the following information from my esteemed friend, Professor Schneevogt: “ Engeltje Noordman, aged 27, had from her earliest infancy been paralysed on the right side. Notwithstanding the poverty of her parents, and although she early exhibited all the evidences of imper- fect mental development, the advice of the most eminent men had been obtained, who had treated her with both external and internal remedies, particularly with stimulants, until, in despair of her reco- very, all further attempts were given up. “ In consequence of her infirmity, she usually kept her bed. At first, her imbecility was not so strongly marked; hence it was that she learned to speak and to make known her wants and manifested some human feeling. By degrees, probably from want of care, she began to grow stupid, exhibited less sympathy with the external world, became more violent in her desires, and passionate if they were not satisfied. In a word, she became more and more like an unclean beast. This was followed by a pruriginous eruption, which, together with a fit of mania, in which it was stated she had endea- voured to set the place on fire (although Professor Schneevogt, probably correctly, doubts the report), induced her mother to bring her to the Suburban Hospital at Amsterdam. “ She was then atrophied and paralysed on the one side, but not so much so as to prevent her moving her leg, which was usually drawn up; sensation was not impaired in the side, and, although it could not be clearly ascertained, to all appearance she saw equally well with both eyes, at least in their motions they preserved their parallel direction. Her mental development was at the lowest ebb; she took notice of nothing, except of the gratification of her animal wants; she made known her desires in this respect in broken lan- guage ; she soiled herself without seeming to be aware of it, and sometimes, like a filthy ape, pelted others with her excrement. When her bedding was changed, or when she was washed, she raved and scolded in interrupted sounds. Menstruation was never