293 COLD IN SURGERY. considerable degree, when, of course, it must be replaced by a fresh quantity. In the winter I make the patients fill their bottles with snow or with ice, and tell them to wrap them up in a handkerchief or two if the cold be too powerful. On account of their convexity, ordinary bottles do not admit of being equally well applied to all parts of the body, offering only a few points for contact. Por the palm of the hand, the armpit, the groin, and the neck, an ordinary mixture-bottle does very well; the forearm and the calf may rest comfortably and cool on two wine- bottles filled with cold water; for other parts, as, for instance, the breast and the abdomen, we may use flat bottles; but for some parts of the body, such as the back, bottles are in no way applicable. In these latter cases, and, in fact, everywhere where my object is to bring larger surfaces of the body in contact with the cold-water- reservoir, I use receptacles of thin iron plate, one side of which has been made exactly to fit the surface of the part for which it is intended. The cooling effects of such iron-plate reservoirs, when filled with cold water, are excellent, and I strongly recommend this mode of application, especially in cases of inflammation of the ver- tebral column, where in no other way the continued abstraction of heat can be so effectually obtained. In all cases of vertebral inflammation in which local or excentric pains are present, and without reference to the existence of Pott's curvature, I at once have a mould taken from the affected part of the back. This is best effected with a sheet of gutta percha. A box of thin iron plate is then made, the upper surface of which is exactly formed after the mould, so as accurately to fit the inflamed part. At the side of the box there is a small opening, which may be closed by a cork, and through Eig. 4. which, by means of a funnel, the box may be filled with cold water, or emptied, when re- quired, by help of an elastic siphon, and all tills without being obliged to move it in the least. Pig. 4 represents a box which was used