197 ARITHMETIC MEANS. dicate some of the methods by which knowledge oil this point may be acquired. (a) Method of Successive Means.—An indefinite number of de- terminations of each quantity to be estimated is made, each of them undertaken with equal care, and under the pre-supposition that the errors in them are as nearly equal on either side of the normal as is possible. With the view of giving increased accuracy to our results, we carry out each figure obtained to three places of deci- mals. We then take the Means successively of the first two numbers, then of the first three, first four, and so on, in each case to about four places of decimals, when we shall find that the Means obtained will agree with one another at the outset in their whole numbers, but that they differ in their first decimals. In conformity with the principle laid down in the previous paragraph, viz. that the accuracy of the Mean increases pari passu with the number of the concurring figures, it will be found that the Means exhibit, after a certain point, a uniformity in their first series of decimal places, then in their first two places, still later in their first three, and at length in all four decimal figures; the last of which results, however, is only attained by extending the process to many hundred figures. As soon as we reach this point, we have good ground for concluding that all four decimals are absolutely accurate. By this means we may learn after how many determinations we may depend upon the certainty of the first and each succeeding decimal figure. This, at least, is clear, that in general, if the number of measurements given is a small one, we can always estimate, by employing the process of successive Means, to what length the certainty of the general Mean extends. Of course the number of the later Means, whose con- cordance with one another is most marked, must be sufficiently large to enable us to feel convinced that their agreement is not merely accidental. As an illustration of the process, I will take a series of numbers from a paper by W. Kaupp, “ On the Dependence of the Amount of Chloride of Sodium in the Urine upon that in the Pood.” 1 The series is as follows : 24.300. 24.173. 23.340. 23.600. 26.057. 23.101. 24.511. 23.343. 26.400. 22.650. 23.590. 23.644. Strictly speaking, however, this series does not belong to the 1 ‘ Archiv fur Physiologische Heilkunde,5 1856, p. 393.