134 ATROPHY OF THE observed, nor did slie ever exhibit any signs of sexual desire. Pro- fessor Scbneevogt could not obtain any confirmation of his suspicion of the practice of onanism. She never manifested any indication of bodily suffering or oppression; she could lie on both sides, though she lay mostly on the right; her appetite was good, and her animal functions were normally performed. Although the motion of her face was not wholly destroyed, its right side generally hung paralysed and flaccid; and notwithstanding that her speech was very defective, and that she seldom expressed herself in words, making known her feelings rather by means of gestures and inarticulate sounds, she gave evidence of feeling in the right side. As she was in the hospital only from the 21st September to the 29th November, when she died, and on account of psora was kept among the scabious women, her case was only for a short time under observation At the post-mortem examination the remarkable emaciation and atrophy of the right side of the body at once struck the eye; in opening the skull much greater difficulty was experienced in sawing through the left half than the right, in consequence of the bones being much thicker on the former than on the opposite side.1 On removing the upper part of the skull we were at once struck with the great difference in the circumference of the hemispheres of the brain as seen through the dura mater. This membrane having been removed, it appeared that the right hemisphere of the cerebrum was quite healthy; the pia mater was in this part coloured moderately red by the blood-vessels, the convolutions were natural, and the colour of the gray matter was, as usual, light red. The left hemi- sphere was, however, not only much smaller, but the arachnoid over the entire surface was very much thickened,2 and between it and the pia mater a considerable quantity of fluid had collected. The whole hemisphere was very soft, and fluctuated like a bladder, on account of the fluid contained in the ventricles; the gray matter was not red- dish, but very pale and yellow; the convolutions were much thinner than those of the other hemisphere, while the pia mater was very loosely attached to the surface, here and there, in fact, appearing to be separated from it by effused serum. The blood-vessels of the pia mater contained less blood than usual. On opening the ventricles, that on the left side appeared larger; the walls of the left ventricle 1 Tigs. I and IT, a} b, c. 2 Tig. Ill, a, b, c.