26 LARYNGOSCOPE. By frequently practising this, it was possible for me, at that time, to see very distinctly upon myself a portion of the nasal fossae, the septum, the turbinated bones, the posterior surface of the velum, &c. Actually I am sufficiently experienced to show these parts, as well as the orifices of the Eustachean tubes, (see Eig. 9). When I examine other persons1 Fig. 9. Septum, posterior orifices of the nasal J make them depress their tongue fossee, turbinated bones, and orifices of the , . , L * Eustachian tubes. Tbe posterior arched themselves, by means 01 a tongue surface of tire velum covers the inferiorpart depressor : the velum then becomes of the nasal cavity. ' readily accessible, and when wanted, I elevate it and draw it forwards with the hook, so as to facilitate the introduction of the mirror. In order not to occupy the two hands simultaneously, of which one directs the laryngoscope, whilst the other holds the hook, I caused to be made, at the commencement of my rhinoscopic studies, a small instrument, which might serve at the same time the pur- poses of a hook and a mirror, and which would necessitate the employment of one hand only. It was a metallic tube, bent at a right angle, and therefore com- posed of two arms, of which one is long, whilst the other—the ver- tical—is short; an oval, steel mirror is attached at an angle of 45 degrees, at the bent part, between the two arms. The light enters through the long arm; the short arm is obliquely cut at its extremity, to be introduced behind the velum into the pliaryngo-nasal cavity. But I soon convinced myself of the necessity of substituting for the major part of the long arm a half tube, in order to have more of the light, and a more easy inspection of the small oval mirror. It seemed to me equally advantageous to replace the short arm by a vertical plate of metal, which could be moved and removed by means of a ring; the introduction of the instrument was thus facilitated. This simple and, it may be said, primitive instrument is repre- sented in Eig. io; I have often employed it with success upon myself firstly, and afterwards upon patients. The position and inclination of the apparatus are the determining cause, by means of which some parts of the pharyngo-nasal cavity 1 See the note p. 28. These demonstrations were made at Paris and in London, by Dr. Czermak, upon himself and numerous patients.—Translator. Eig. 9.