LEFT HEMISPHERE OF THE BRAIN. 167 reverse lias been met with, where a perfect ganglion existed, but the rest of the nerve or parts were absent. It is, however, of import- ance that acephalous malformations, where nerves are met with (in reference to which point no microscopic investigation has as yet been made), should be more closely examined in this respect, and that attention should also be directed to the often singular origin of these nerves in a kind of rudimentary spinal cord, with ganglia, which, so far as I am aware, has hitherto been overlooked.1 But in my case we find not only atrophy of the paralysed side, but, as I have above stated, hypertrophy of one half, and that the oppo- site half of the skull. This increased thickness of half of the skull in unilateral atrophy of the brain is of frequent occurrence, but is not constant; in twenty-seven cases of unilateral atrophy, where more or less mention is made of the skull, we find in ten instances increased thickness of the skull on the atrophied side of the brain; in other cases the cavity of the skull on the atrophied side was filled with serum, but the bone was not thickened.3 Even Gall observed that in case of atrophy of the brain the skull is thickened, and at the same time quotes examples of unilateral atrophy of the brain, where ordy one half of the skull was increased in thickness.3 and in which he even gives the measurement of the thickness of the nerves (loc. cit., pp. 144 et seq.). He infers, in my opinion correctly, that the first formation of the spinal nerves is dependent on the existence of the spinal cord or a part of it; but if these are once formed, the cord is no longer necessary to the further nutrition and growth of the parts (loc. cit., p. 142). But where the formation of the spinal cord is interrupted before these nerves have been developed, they are not formed, and then the muscles are also absent (the force which continues to operate in these nerves after subsequent destruction of the cord, can, in my mind, be referred only to the ganglionic plexuses and their connexion with the sympathetic.) There is much more which I must omit, and for which I must refer to Weber’s important case and the conclusions he draws from it; the importance of the ques- tion alone induced me to enter into it at such length. Weber is, in my opinion, quite warranted'in deducing the dependence of the muscles on the animal nerves. 1 See, among others, different examples of this in W. Yrolik, ‘Tabulae ad illustrandam Embryogenesin,’ Amst., 1849, tab. xlvi and xlvii. 2 Obliquity of the skull often arises from dropsy within the head, which has already been observed by E. Meckel (see ‘Handbuch der Path. Anat./ Tli. i, pp. 285.) Also W. Yrolik, ‘Handboek der ziektek. ontl.,’ pp. 522 and 533. Still I am not aware of any case of dilatation of the skull with atrophy of the brain. 3 E. J. Gall, ‘ Sur les functions du Cerveau,’ tome iii, pp. 89 et seq., and pp.