227 AR1THMETIC MEANS. the fact that the above series, which gives a high Mean, includes the number 3.47, which must have been due to some special disturbing influence, for in no other case amongst all Beneke’s other determina- tions of phosphoric acid do we again meet with so high a number. The highest which occurs is 2.90, and this is not in the Oldenburg observations, but in those taken during sea-bathing—in the very cir- cumstances, that is to say, where the author asserts that he has noticed a diminution of the phosphoric acid. Moreover, the numbers of the second series, which give the smallest Mean, exhibit an un- broken increase, and this increase is continued in the sea-bathing series which is directly connected with it; so that a still stronger doubt must arise as to the correctness of Beneke's assertion, unless we feel inclined to overlook the excessive incompleteness of the series. But the case of his assertion with regard to the effects of sea-bathing is as bad as it can be; and it is quite necessary in considering it to specially examine the individual investigations, since the mean num- bers themselves offer the most striking proof of its incorrectness. The Means of the seven and eight days' researches on the influence of sea-bathing are 2.62 and 2.67, whilst the Means of the January and February series of observations at Oldenburg are respectively 2.34 and 2.40; and yet, according to Beneke, the most marked effect of sea-bathing is in diminishing the elimination of phosphoric acid! Indeed, the observation of Dr. Boecker, which he made when he handed Beneke's paper to me, may be fully confirmed, that not one of the results therein contained appeared to him to have any founda- tion—at least, so far as the part relating to the investigations on the urine was concerned. Benecke found, after his residence in Wangeroge, that his bodily weight was considerably increased. It is manifest, therefore—and that without any necessity for chemical proof—that, whilst there, lie ingested more nitrogenous material as well as phosphoric acid than he excreted. Moreover, it can hardly be doubted that the richer dietary at Wangeroge not only contamed more nitrogen, but also more phosphoric acid than that at Oldenburg ; and the actual result does not in any way contradict the assumption, that not only was more of both substances assimilated, but also more eliminated, since the excess of assimilation may easily have exceeded the excess of elimination. That a special diminution of excretion should have been maintained, not for both, but only for one of these substances.