101 CEREBRAL SINUSES. venous trunks, and it will even happen in many cases that the supply of blood from the bone to certain of these is completely arrested. But as a narrowing of the calibre of these vessels is impossible, as already remarked, a diminished or arrested supply leads to stagnation, and the formation of thrombus in them, which may extend into the sinus. We should thus have to regard the thrombosis in the sinuses in such cases as propagated, that in the small veins of the diploe as primary and dependent upon the comparative excess in their calibre. A similar view may be taken of extensive sanious inflammations of the cellular tissue, inflammations which, as is well known, easily lead to phlebitis of the larger venous trunks and to the phenomena of pyaemia and metastatic deposits. In such phlegmonous inflammations a greater or less extent of venous radicles is for the most part soon destroyed by the inflammatory process, which rapidly spreads and leads to necrosis of the tissues, whereby the supply of blood to the small venous trunks is diminished or completely arrested, and stagnation of the blood in them takes place from the absence of the vis a tergo. It may, in- deed, more readily occur here than in the veins of the diploe that these small vessels collapse and propel their contents into the next branch, by which means the formation of a thrombus in them is prevented. This may also be the reason why phlebitis does not always ensue in such cases. But if the process of inflammation has previously produced solid infiltration and thickening of the tissues around the small veins, it will happen here, as in the veins of the diploe, that, the supply of blood being diminished, the unyielding nature of the vessels will furnish conditions fayorable to the forma- tion of thrombus. These small thrombi grow, and finally reach the larger trunks, and phlebitis ensues in the latter. The reason why this consequent phlebitis mostly leads to suppuration and destruction of the coats of the vein, and but seldom assumes the so-called ad- hesive form, lies in the deleterious nature of the thrombus, which, arising in a deposit of various products of decomposition, conveys these by imbibition into the larger vessels. Such a view of the origin of thrombosis and phlebitis in the vicinity of inflammatory processes would diminsh still more the range of so-called secondary thrombosis from inflammation of the walls of the vessels, since the coagulation of the blood in the small veins must be regarded as the consequence of stagnation, while that in the larger veins may be represented as occasioned by propagation (pro- duced thrombosis), and the inflammation of the coats of the veins