THE IMPORTANCE OF 218 Our first object should be to inspect the numbers supplied by our observations, with the view of examining whether any excessive disturbance has come into play which could give us reason to fear an illusory result. If we wish for this purpose to possess a simple, though indirect test, we should, as above (Section YIII, c) directed, form a double series of Successive Means, the one of them proceeding from the first downwards to the last observation, and the other in a contrary direction, and observe whether in either of these series the last half exhibits greater fluctuations than the first. It is only when this is not the case that the series are of any further value. But if both of the series to be compared satisfy this condition, they are then to be treated in the outset as complete (i. e. in accordance with Section YII), i. e. we must examine whether the difference of their Means exceeds the sum of their uncertainties, or not. The uncer- tainty, as extracted from the Successive Means, will naturally be smaller, and therefore more favorable for the determination of positive results, than the standard of uncertainty expressed through the mean fluctuation, for the former is extracted from numbers in which the inequalities have more or less compensated one another, whilst in the determination of the mean fluctuation all the fluctua- tions of the original observations come into account. If the series of observations are complete, the limits of fluctuation extracted from the Successive Means would suffice, and we should disregard the amount of the mean fluctuation, since in this case we have to deal with the comparison of influences that have disseminated themselves over the whole period of observation, and not with an examination between what limits they would principally operate if the observations were indefinitely protracted. But if the series of observations are incomplete, the fluctuations occurring during short periods will, as must follow from Section YIII, have eliminated themselves to a considerable extent from the Successive Means; but those occurring during long and incomplete periods, or from irregular disturbances, will, in general, not have done so; that is to say, if the greatest portion of the period falls without that during which the examination is carried on, or if the disturbing influences which would act as com- pensators should first happen to interpose after the conclusion of the investigation, the fluctuations between the successive Means would be too small; we shall, therefore, generally be less liable to error if we take the mean fluctuation as deduced from the un- abbreviated oscillations as the limit of certainty. But under certain