COLD IN SURGERY. 299 Iii Gros-Caillou, the large military hospital near the Champs -de- Mars, there were a number of severely wounded soldiers. Cold was used in these cases with great perseverance. I found the limbs, of which the bones had been smashed, well put on splints, and enve- loped with Scultetus's bandages. In the severest injuries, such as gunshot fractures of the leg, there were placed on the bandages a number of small pieces of ice, which were replaced by fresh ones as soon as they had melted. The water dripped off over a piece of oil- cloth into a pail. On those amputation-stumps, also, which were bandaged there were always bits of ice melting. The ice was not clean, and on the bandage there was soon formed a thick layer of black dirt; but the smashed limbs and the amputation-stumps were, for all that, in a very good state. I was present when, on the eighth day, the bandages were removed from all these wounds, and, if neces- sary, replaced by new ones. Almost all the patients looked as if there was nothing the matter with them, and although, according to my opinion, the manipula- tion in bandaging was by no means faultless (the pus, for instance, was squeezed out of the wounds, the stumps were lightly compressed with sticking-plaster, &c.), all the severe wounds presented an excel- lent appearance. Nowhere were to be found any of the alarming- swellings and infiltrations in the neighbourhood of the gunshot fractures which are so difficult to get rid of when they have once appeared; nowhere was the suppuration profuse and offensive, but, as is usually the case in the treatment by ice, it was scanty and some- what serous. This treatment with ice was continued uninterruptedly during four weeks. Then cold affusions were used, which, in the less serious injuries, had been applied from the beginning. In ten days more I found most of the dangerously wounded already with dry bandages. The wounds were nicely granulating, and suppuration was taking place only from the surface; the gunshot fractures were consolidated, and the amputation-stumps nearly healed up. The result was most strikingly favorable in a case of perforating wound of the knee-joint. A spent ball had struck the centre of the patella, and broken it into five fragments, which were visible through the circular opening in the skin. On the seventh day, ice having been continuously applied, the joint was scarcely at all swollen, and the general health of the patient was excellent. At the end of four weeks, although I found the joint much swollen, and the wound, by slight pressure, yielding purulent synovia, it was granulating well