ON THE USE OF 318 ay as hot and very tender to the touch. The leg was at once placed in a raised position on HeisteCs splint,, ail ice-bag was put on the middle of the swelling, and round about it twelve leeches were applied. Incipient but distinct symptoms of delirium tremens had set in, and for this the patient ay as ordered a quarter of a grain of mor- phia every two hours. After he had in this Avay taken two and a half grains he fell quietly asleep for tAvelve hours together. When he aAvoke he was quite sensible, the inflammatory symptoms had visibly diminished, and continued under the constant application of ice to decrease during the next feAv days. On the fifth day a red, fluc- tuating, and painful swelling formed at the outer side of the thigh, about six inches above the patella. This Avas evidently an abscess, Avhich threatened to break. An ice-bag Avas placed on this also. The pus, which Avas certainly present, never escaped externally, but was in both places absorbed. On the seventh day the swell- ing over the patella had entirely disappeared, on the thirteenth that in the thigh had also gone. The skin over them Avas pale and Avrinkled. On the fifteenth day the patient left the hospital entirely cured. I also make use of continuous abstraction of heat in many cases of eye-disease. In all cases of injuries of the eye, Avhether super- ficial or deep, dry cold is a remedy Avhicli is surpassed by no other. Injuries of the cornea, sclerotic, and iris, heal under this more rapidly and with less pain than under any other treatment. In most cases the development of painful inflammation is thus pre- vented, and reproduction and the formation of cicatrices are much more rapidly effected than if inflammation is alloAved to spread. The blood extravasated into the anterior chamber of the eye, in con- sequence of contusion of the globe, is, under this treatment, nbsorbed with comparative rapidity, as the folloAving case sIioays. Case 15.—Contusion of the globe of the eye; hyper amici; appli- cation of ice for a fortnight.—T. H—, a man, set. 26, came to the hospital Avith a contusion of his left eye, in consequence of a bloAY Avith a whip, which he had received on the previous day. The con- junctiva Avas much swollen and hyperaemic. The cornea appeared very dull. A third of the anterior chamber was filled with blood. In the texture of the iris there was a speck of extravasated blood, of the size of a hemp-seed. The patient had great intolerance of light.