LARYNGOSCOPE. 44 prsesertim adhaerescunt, partem inclinent; quum ab thyro- epiglottidseo minore inf era maxime sit adducencla33 1 Previous to the foregoing, Santorini lias already observed of the great thyro-epiglottic : “ Sicut memoratam hujusce musculi actionem, quern epiglottidsei majoris nomine vocandum censeo, potissimum epiglottidis depressioni datam esse existimo; ita tamen et eadem contractione laryngis ventriculorum cavitates coarctari, et ex iis for- tasse quidquam exprimi posse opinor ... 3,2 It is certain that during deglutition the larynx undergoes complete closure, which takes place in the manner described before the com- mencement of the act of swallowing. So we see that M. Meyer expresses a false opinion, in asserting1 2 3 that the larynx is closed, or rather “ is covered by the epiglottis, depressed mechanically by the alimentary bolus,” although he is right in stating that, after the passage of the bolus, the epiglottis is raised again by its own elas- ticity and that of its ligaments. If we voluntarily contract the pharynx, as in deglutition, when the mouth is widely open, in order to permit the application of the laryngoscope, we sometimes may see that part of the epiglottis turned up, which freely overlaps the closed larynx, so that a con- siderable portion of its inferior surface becomes visible (see Plate II, fig- ii). This reversed portion, and the posterior wall of the pharynx, form the boundaries of a small round opening which gives passage to the air, if we arrest the further contraction of the pharynx, and if we open the glottis. The same figure (Plate II, fig. ii) corre- sponds to the situation of the parts, when we desire to gargle them. When, on the other hand, I endeavour to continue deglutition, which, besides, never perfectly succeeds with the mouth widely open, the epiglottis disappears under the base of the tongue.4 1 ‘ Observations Anatomies;’ (Lugduni Batavorum, 1739, cb. vi, sect. 14, p. 112). 2 ‘ Ibid./ chap, vi, sect. 14, p. hi. 3 ‘Lehrbuch der Physiologischen Anatomic des Menschen’ (Leipzig, 1856, p.159). 4 We have suppressed, in the French edition, the third section, “ Upon the Formation of Sounds, called true gutturals” which is to be found ill the German edition (‘Der Kehlkopsfspiegel,’ Leipzig, i860, p. 53); because it possesses purely a physiological interest.