270 THE IMPORTANCE OF tigation, it was at one time assumed that, in order to lay down a mathematical rule on the matters in question, a certain amount of physiological knowledge was prerequisite; and at another, that in addition to the logic upon which the superstructure of mathematics rests, there is yet another kind (which people have chosen to call the logic of facts). "With regard to the first of these objections, no one has ever taken the trouble to ask whether I possess a competent acquaintance with physiology, or not;1 though it is just as likely, that as we have at the present time physiologists who possess at the same time a skilled acquaintance with mathematics, there may be also mathema- ticians who are equally well acquainted with physiology. But this has nothing at all to do with the question. If it had, we might, with equal justice, question the general application of the rule of three, on the ground that those who employ it should, at the same time, be skilled in physics, chemistry, arboriculture (Porstwissen- schaft),2 commerce and finance, as well as in the thousand other matters in which it is used, which would be impossible. The fact is, that all that it i-s necessary to know, in laying down a rule for the comparison of two series of observations is—what we may learn from the series themselves, viz., whether fluctuations exist in those series, and if so, how great those fluctuations are. An acquaintance with their causes is quite unimportant, for in that case it is not sufficient accurately to map out these causes, he must know also the laws of their physiological operation. Up to the present time, however, nothing certain is known with regard to the laws which govern any of the unavoidable causes of fluctuation, not even the operation of temperature, notwithstanding the interesting series of observations of Kaupp on that subject, which extend over eighty-seven days. And even if the exact law which regulates any one of these causes of fluctuation were known, its proper consideration would be within the province of mathematics. Dr. Lehmann, therefore, is in error when he maintains,3 that the irregular operation of unknown causes 1 The fact is, that I have in my leisure hours occupied myself much with physiological questions. 2 This branch of applied science, of which our only representative is the governmental department of Woods and Forests, is a recognised profession in Germany, where the absence of coal renders the preservation and culture of existing forests of the highest importance.—Translator. 3 See his paper “On the Estimation of the Physiological Action of Hip Baths.” Moleschott’s Untersuchungen, vol. vi, p. 186, 1859.