PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 61 other hand, was produced either by the limited mechanical mobility of the parts, or, particularly on the right side, by the irregular notches on the edges of the vocal cords, which were of a grayish- white colour. The enlargement of the glottis did not exceed some twentieths of an inch in its transverse direction (constriction), whilst occlu- sion without a great display of force was never hermetic (insuffi- ciency) . The patient could not compress the air in the chest unless with a great effort, and during a short space of time, because it escaped by the glottis. I have represented, in Tig. % i, the image given by the laryngo- scope, when the glottis was enlarged a piG 2j little over the half of the transverse dia- meter, as much as it could attain. The fold of mucous membrane which encloses the arytenoid cartilages is swollen, in- jected, and very much stretched; it was the same with the superior vocal cords, which were likewise swollen, but relaxed. ng. 21. constriction and insuffi- The ventricles of Morgagni were obliter- ciency of the glottis; swelling of D a the arytenoid cartilages. a ted. Antimonials were employed by Professor Balassa at first, and afterwards quinine, when fever and night sweats supervened. The condition of the larynx had not scarcely changed when, on Tebruary 10th, 18^9, I examined the patient over again. The redness of the fold of mucous membrane of the aryte- noid cartilages had almost entirely disappeared, and was replaced by a pale tint; the tension had diminished, and we thought we could see an oedematous infiltration. The superior vocal cords seemed swollen, and their anterior half were in contact at the median line. Cauterization with nitrate of silver was indicated under these circumstances, and the following day, in the presence of Professor Balassa, I performed it by the aid of the laryngoscope, with a caustic holder, sufficiently long, and suitably curved. The quietness maintained by the patient allowed of my touching exactly the in- flamed spots above the arytenoid cartilages. I introduced the laryngoscope at first with the left hand, and placed it in such a manner, that not only were the different parts of the larynx visible, but the caustic holder could be held and directed by the right hand upon the points described.