261 ARITHMETIC MEANS. opinion as to the accuracy and reliability of pliysiologico-chemical investigations, of which alone I am here speaking, should continue to emanate from the physiologist or physician, who know how to estimate how far the way in which the investigation is conducted, the numbers obtained, the conclusions drawn, and, still more, the ruling ideas and general cast of mind of the experimenter, are deserv- ing of confidence, and correspond to our previous knowledge. After this the mathematician may be readily allowed to intervene with his opinion as to the calculation of the individual numbers, and especially of the Means which have been obtained. In all cases he will be able, except where he may discover great errors in the calculations, to give an opinion as to greater or lesser amount of probability in the individual conclusions of the physiologist, and thereby contribute to the acquisition of truth, always provided, however, that he takes into careful consideration the grounds upon which the physiologist bases those conclusions. In what way does Professor Radicke propose to increase the cer- tainty of our conclusions P After he has treated of Means generally, and has explained to us very clearly what are the distinctions between arithmetic, geometric, harmonic, and quadratic Means, he proceeds to the special examination of Arithmetic Means as being those which are most of interest to us. An Arithmetic Mean may have a three- fold meaning. It may either exhibit a pure average ; or it indicates the probable value of a definite fixed quantity; or, lastly, the pro- bable value of a variable quantity taken under mean conditions. In the first of these cases we have to deal with numerous numbers of definite value; with numbers which are independent of one another, or of whose dependence no notice is taken. In the second case, only one number is involved, which has to be determined from numerous others of uncertain value. In the third case, we have the same con- ditions as in the second, with this exception, that the number to be determined indicates, not a definite, fixed quantity, but a variable one. Our physiologico-chemical investigations nearly always are of the third class; hence it is requisite accurately to appreciate the degree of uncertainty or fluctuation of the individual numbers obtained, and to estimate the probable value of the Mean with reference to that degree of uncertainty. Por this purpose Professor Radicke gives the following rules as applicable : “ the Mean required is obtained by taking the certain figures which a consideration of the successive Means presents, and by adding to them as the succeeding figure the