APPENDIX ON RHINOSCOPY. 79 of tlie Eustachian tubes were visible and entirely free, but their mar- gins were thickened. Several persons standing near me participated in this view, which was considered highly satisfactory through the clearness and ease with which it was obtained, although tlie diagnosis was rather of a negative character. Case 2.—~Large pharyngo-nasal polypus, seen by the aid of the rhinoscope. On the 10th August, i860, I examined a man at the Charite Hospital in Paris, in presence of a large auditory, who composed the clinic of M. Yelpeau. Some time previous the presence of a great polypus of the pharyngo-nasal cavity had been made out. I succeeded with the greatest facility in the application of my method, as in most of the cases of laryngo-nasal polypi, and by the aid of a brilliant sunlight was enabled to show the lower part of the polypus in its natural condition and colour very distinctly; but its large size made it impossible to see the upper part and the. point of its attachment. The undoubted utility of the rhinoscope in cases where the tumours attain such a large size, consists in its permitting of thoroughly examining the visible surface, and of applying a sound or the galvanic cautery, assisted by the eye. I regret very much that this case was not submitted to operation during my stay in Paris, as a later examination would have enabled me to give an exact description of its result, the point of attachment of the polypus, the condition of its remains, &c., &c. This refers to all similar cases, as an illustration of the utility of the method after the operation has been performed. Case 3.— Tumour occupying nearly the whole of the pharyngo-nasal cavity. On September 18th, i860, I examined Dr. P. at Pesth, who felt an obstacle in the nose during breathing, and whose voice possessed an obvious nasal twang. The inspection of the pharyngo-nasal cavity could be made without difficulty, and I could observe the presence of a greatly developed growth, which nearly filled up the whole pharyngo-nasal cavity. On examining it more closely, and sounding it by the aid of the