210 THE IMPORTANCE OF by the side of one another, and so making our selection that the atmo- spheric variations may compensate each other as much as possible. Investigations have, indeed, been made with the view of estimating the influence of atmospheric agencies, but they only extend to those of temperature, and with reference even to this point are very deficient. We have still to discuss the changeability of the physical condi- tion of the individual, which must have the same effect in altering the above supposed constantp0 as atmospheric influences. That alte- rations in the physical condition of an individual do occur there can be no doubt. Indeed, physiologists assume a continuous change in the human economy as a result of the metamorphosis of tissue. A man to-day is not in all respects exactly what he was yesterday; but it is open to doubt whether sufficiently important changes occur within the comparatively short period of time embracing these two mutually related series of observations to bring into operation agen- cies which perfectly neutralize the above-mentioned influences; in that case special causes must be at work. Such a cause may be— the change in the mode of life which is necessitated by the investi- gation itself, which must exhibit a continuous operation in the same direction, and, therefore, in an increasing degree, as well as a con- tinuous change in the normal state of health of the individual. The usual daily alternations in the normal state of health are to be attri- buted to the fluctuating operation of the above-mentioned influences, and have a natural tendency to compensate one another. In order to ascertain whether a recognisable alteration has taken place in the physical condition of the individual during the period of investiga- tion, the method instituted by Boecker of a normal investigation is advisable, i. e. to institute a series of observations without the addi- tional agency, some before, and some after the other inquiries, the periods of which inquiries must be of a much longer duration than that of the other. If we could exacfly estimate the physical con- ditions (or susceptibility to external influences) on every occasion, we might then multiply every observation by the coefficient deter- mined for its physical condition, so as to reduce all our observations to a uniform standard. But, as this is impossible, we must consider, in the case of minute differences between the mean quantities, those series of inquiries to be inadmissible in which excessive changes in the physical condition have exhibited themselves; where, however,