304 ON THE USE OF cold became inconvenient to the patient, and warm compresses were used instead, subsequently a solution of nitrate of silver. At the spot where the sphacelation of the skin had exposed the tibia a small particle of bone was expelled. By the tenth week the frac- ture was firmly united, but the wound was not completely cicatrized till the fourth month. To the left thigh ice was applied only for five days. The fracture was healed in eight weeks, with scarcely any shortening. The patient left his bed after the wound was cured, and could then walk well without crutches. Case 3.—Gunshot fracture of the tibia ; application of ice during six weeks.—C. P—, a powerful man, set. 27, was out hunting, and whilst climbing over a wall received in his left calf a charge of small shot from a gun fired close behind him. The shot entered his leg just above the malleolus externus, and passed out in front at about the middle of the tibia. The bone was at this spot found to be much comminuted. The opeuing by wdiich the shot had entered was circular, and of about two inches in diameter; that by which they had escaped was irregular and lacerated. Extensive haemorrhage had taken place from the wound, and as I was afraid of its occurring again, and dared scarcely entertain any hopes of saving the limb, I proposed to the patient the amputation of the leg. He, however, resolutely opposed its being done. I therefore removed a number of loose fragments of bone and some small shot from the wound, placed the limb on a HeistePs splint, and had two ice-bags put on the upper surface of the leg. The patient assisted our endea- vours by showing the greatest patience and quietness during the most violent suffering. The ice was borne well for six weeks, during which extensive suppuration took place; the lacerated tissues, and many small bits of bone separated; the wound became filled with healthy granulations, and the fracture healed. At the end of November the wound was closed, with the exception of a few small sinuses, through which eventually some more fragments of bone found their way out. The patient was now discharged, at his own request, as nearly as possible cured, and presented himself again the next year, having walked about ten miles from his home to the hospital. Case 4.—Fracture of the lower part of the humerus ; application of ice firing twenty-two days.—M. W—, a boy, aet. 16, fell from a