98 THROMBOSIS OF THE with thickening of the walls of the left jugular vein; a puriform plug in one of the lateral branches of the right jugular vEin. In the longitudinal sinus,, bnify clot, plugging up the openings of some of the arachnoid veins. These obstructions commence, as is seen on removing the dura mater, at the Pacchionian glands, which are sur- rounded by pus extending from the longitudinal fissure to the posterior border of the left hemisphere of the cerebrum; the right lateral sinus filled with fresh, gelatinous, buffy clot; in the left, on the contrary, as far as the jugular vein, besides fresh clot, older masses passing into a state of suppuration. Also in the veins of the dura mater in the right middle fossa of the base of the skull, and in both cavernous sinuses, sanious purulent masses. The right petrous bone discoloured, also the inner surface of the right wing of the sphenoid, and partly infiltrated with ichor. The Gasserian ganglion permeated by exudation and the second branch of the fifth nerve soaked in pus, which extends through the foramina outwards. Extensive exudative meningitis and at one point of the middle lobe of the brain, commencing encephalitis. Sanious lobular pneumonia; thrombosis of the veins of the right vesicula seminalis; abscess of the liver, with softening thrombosis of the hepatic vein. Enlarge- ment of the spleen, and parenchymatous nephritis. In the two last-mentioned cases, the extension of the thrombosis with puriform disorganization from external vessels to the cerebral sinuses is clearly demonstrable. In that of Castelnau and Ducrost, the starting-point is the inflammation of the cellular tissue of the orbit (as already correctly remarked by Lebert); but not the inflam- mation in the neck, as the first symptoms evidently showed themselves in the orbit, and the products of the inflammation were most advanced there. The thrombosis had extended from the ophthalmic vein to the right cavernous sinus and circular, petrosal, andTateral sinuses on both sides, and finally through the jugular vein as far as the vena innominata. In Yirchow's case, the origin of the thrombosis was the purulent parotitis and the sanious inflammation in its vicinity; the thrombosis had advanced into the cavernous sinus of the right, and afterwards of the other side, through the venous anastomoses in the inferior orbital fissure, and had extended to the lateral sinus and left jugular vein. AYe, therefore, see in this case the thrombosis extending in a striking manner, especially upon the side opposite to its starting-point. The