ARITHMETIC MEANS. 235 prove that the readily recognisable and but slightly varying period of two days, in the observations which immediately followed one another, absorbs the greatest portion of the fluctuations; and we are not only safe in using the series, but we shall, in our estimate of the mean fluctuation, obtain a sensibly greater measure of uncertainty than really exists. Nevertheless, this excessive estimate allows us to re- cognise a distinct diminution of the solid constituents of the urine under the use of sugar, just as an unequivocal diminution of them is evident in the alcohol series. The Arithmetic Means of the mean fluctuations are, respectively— Alcohol . • 54-oo and 8.54. „ (normal series) 82.64 >> 14.80. Sugar • 55-^7 >> 2.94. „ (normal series) 69.79 j) 6.40. The mean difference and sum of the fluctuations is, therefore— Alcohol .... 28.64 and 23.34. Sugar . . . . 14-12 „ 9.34. III. The researches of Kaupp on the action of Chloride of Sodium.— These researches (published in the f Archiv fiir Physiologische Heil- kunde/ 1855) are of very great value, both on account of the great continuity of the periods which they embrace, and of the uniformity of the manner of living during the time they were carried on, in reference to which point extreme care in the chemical analyses was taken. Tor this purpose, during the eighty-seven days of observa- tion the solid food as well as the fluids taken were every day quanti- tatively and qualitatively arranged, with the exception of twelve days, in which the effect of the most complete abstinence possible from salt was observed, and in which, on that account, a slight change was necessary. Thus, for instance, the ham sausages which were daily consumed, on account of the chloride of sodium they contained, were mixed with an equal weight of fresh pork; and as the mid-day soup was not very palatable when prepared without salt, its (weighed) constituents were cooked in another form, and the water which would otherwise have been used in their preparation drunk with them. The hours of each meal, of rising and going to bed, and of satisfying the wants of nature, were rigorously maintained on every day alike; labour was uniformly distributed throughout the day; walks, mechanical employments, &c., were avoided; the temperature