303 COLD IN SURGERY. ounces. During the next day or two there was some swelling and redness around the wound, but the inflammation was soon subdued by the constant use of ice. The man had no pain, slept quietly at night, and felt well. The wound was now dressed with oil and lint, and the two ice-bags were kept on the leg day and night. At the lower margin of the wound the naked bones could be seen for a time bathed in pus, until, in fact, they were covered from all sides by the advancing granulations. By the ninth 'week the wound had got considerably smaller, and the fracture was nearly united. The ice- bags wrere now taken away, as they were becoming inconvenient to the patient. On several previous occasions we attempted to do without the ice, but violent pain soon compelled the patient to implore us to reapply it. By the thirteenth week the 'wound had cicatrized, without a particle of bone having been expelled. During the thirteenth week the patient left his bed, and some wreeks after- wards the hospital, with an entirely useful and scarcely shortened leg. Case 2.—Compound fracture ; application of ice for seven weeks. —A. S—, a boy, set. 8, w^as run over by a raihvay carriage drawn by a horse, and had his two legs fractured. There wras a simple fracture of the left thigh, and a compound fracture of the lower part of the right leg. The tibia and fibula were broken in their middle; in the skin of the calf there was a lacerated wound, nine inches long, through which the contused muscles were protruding. The wround w'as now closed by a suture, the broken limbs were placed on cushions, and judiciously fixed. An ice-bag was put on each of the fractures. The pain, which wras very violent at the beginning, soon disappeared completely, so as to allow the boy to sleep the wdiole night through. The following day the right leg w as considerably swollen; the sutures were therefore taken out, in consequence of which the edges of the w'ound separated to a distance of three inches. During the following day or two the swelling w-ent dowrn, and although, at the place where the tibia was fractured, a bit of discoloured skin, twro inches in diameter, became gangrenous, the treatment by ice was continued with great perseverance. Under this plan of treatment the wround assumed a favorable appearance, healthy granulations soon sprung up, and laudable pus w'as secreted. The general health of the patient was all the wrhile scarcely affected. The pulse remained quiet, sleep and appetite were always good. After seven weeks the