RHINOSCOPY. 29 place well on both sides, when the meatus was hermetically closed; but when the auricular passage was open, the sound was clearly con- ducted on the right side to a distance of four inches and a half, and on the left side of but two and a half inches only. Examined with a speculum, the tympanum appeared to be almost the same on both sides; on allowing for a difference in the transparency, altogether in- significant, as it was observed besides in the right as well as the left ear, the state of the tympanum was quite normal. The uvula seemed shorter than ordinary, and slightly inclined towards the right side; the tonsils presented a small number of swollen follicles, perhaps more numerous on the left than the right side. The posterior wall of the pharynx was slightly tumified, and we could observe upon it streaks of frothy mucus. On submitting the patient to the ex- periment of Yalsalva, he felt on the right side a strong current of air to exercise a pressure upon the cavity of the tympanum, and to dis- tend it; whilst on the left side, the introduction of a current of air produced no sensation at first, and only did so afterwards at intervals of a few seconds, after repeated trials, and on increasing the force : which indicated, that on this side the air did not enter into the cavity of the tympanum but by means of great efforts; but even thus it only penetrated in the smallest quantity, and in consequence, the dis- tension of the tympanum was scarcely perceptible. “ This important symptom was entirely confirmed by means of a catheter and a stream of air. The catheter was introduced into the middle part of the inferior nasal meatus of the right side, but not without difficulty, and by means of slight torsion outwards; but when it was introduced into the pharyngeal orifice of the Eustachian tube, and a stream of air made use of, auscultation revealed a regular emission of a large column of air, without crepitation or rhonchus. On the left side, the catheter passed readily through the nose; but auscultation allowed the ear to recognise during the application of the stream of air, first, an acute sound, sharp, of a high tone, and resembling a whistle; and secondly, a crepitation and a rale in the neighbourhood of the tympanum, as well as at a great distance from that organ.” Here terminates Dr. Hirschler^s account. It was about the middle of the month of Eebruary last, that I made the acquaintance of the patient, and as I then saw that he had the willingness, and was sufficiently master of himself, I requested him to allow me to examine his pharyngo-nasal cavity.