254 THE IMPORTANCE OF supporting a conclusion; how much more so hi those almost uniformly complex problems which we are called upon, in therapeutics, to solve. Yet I do this at the same time with the reservation that, in addition to the purely formal and mathematically convincing logic of the calculus of probabilities, there is in many cases a logic of facts, which, when applied hi the proper manner and in the proper place (i. e. to questions that are not too complex), carries with it, for the man who is acquainted with his subject, a small, or, it may be, a very high degree of conviction. I will endeavour specially to apply what has been said above to the criticisms which Professor Badicke has emitted with reference to certain conclusions which Kaupp has drawn from his series of investigations on the urine, instituted in the phy- siological laboratory here. In the first place we must, for the sake of fairness, remember (what the critic omits to mention), viz., that the researches in ques- tion are entitled “ Investigations on the dependence of the amount of chloride of sodium in the urine upon that in the food." The direct and most important results of these investigations are, consequently, not in the least affected by Professor Badicke"s criticisms. They are open to no objection, and have been recognised by the highest authorities.1 The lengthy and obliging criticisms with which the writer honours the production of my young friend, refer only to two accessory effects of the saline diet (viz., on the urea, and on the total amount of the urine), and to the dependence of the quantity of the urine upon the temperature of the atmosphere. Now, when an inves- tigator pursues a manner of life so uniform during a series of re- searches lasting over so many weeks as Kaupp did (I do not think it is everybody who would readily bring himself to undertake a similarly protracted labour, during the most monotonous way of living pos- sible), such a series would appear to offer a guarantee for the institu- tion of a series of allied researches. A critic who would wish us to refrain from availing ourselves of labours bearing so wide an ap- plication would not be worth answering. The defence which I shall offer of these conclusions of Kaupp, which have been attacked by 1 Kaupp’s figures in reference to the relations of the amount of chloride of sodium in the urine and food, might have been quoted by Professor Badicke as at least as good an example of a series of researches instituted on the organism under influences that were considerably divergent, both in their action and mea- surements, as the researches of Boecker, which hence receive the sanction of a representative of the exact sciences.