203 ARITHMETIC MEANS. Section VI.—The Arithmetic Mean as the probable value of a variable quantity determined under mean conditions. With the view of facilitating the reader's comprehension of this condition, by placing a definite example at once before him, let us take as the basis of our description the case with regard to which we are in the present instance more particularly interested, viz. where the mean is taken from a daily series of observations of the amount of urine execreted by an individual; or, of the quantities of different substances which the urine may contain. In this case, the observed quantity varies from day to day, in consequence of the different ex- ternal influences which cannot be voluntarily regulated, as well as of the variable physical condition of the individual himself. If both of these causes were to produce no fluctuation, the quantity which the different observations would give would be invariable, and we should then have the case of Section IV. If, on the other hand, the observations were entirely free from error, whilst the fluctuations in question had full play, we should then have the case referred to in Section III. The Arithmetic Mean would in this case be a simple average, and would accurately represent the value which the quantity under observation (if the observations were absolutely accurate) would have, if the individual from whom it was taken were placed in a constant mean physical condition, and if the variable influences above referred to were to spread their action uniformly over the whole space' of time during which the observations were made- This quantity, which would be entirely definite, might be called the mean quantity. On account, however, of the errors to which all observations are liable, the Arithmetic Mean which we practically obtain will in reality only represent, in conformity with Section IV, the probable value of this mean quantity (or average). In order, however, that it may in fact represent the probable value, the con- ditions indicated in Section IV must be as nearly as possible fulfilled, i. e. the individual quantities of each day must be obtained as the Means of observations repeated as often as is practicable—indeed, of observations that are repeated with a frequency proportionate to the inaccuracy of the methods of measurement. The chemical analyses especially should be performed over and over again. In the de- termination of the urinary quantities, to be sure, a repetition of the measurements is as inapplicable (unless, in addition to the voluxnetrical