THROMBOSIS OF THE 108 1 Cruveilhier, ‘ Auat. Path./ liv. 36, pp. 2 am) 3. Degeneration of the kidneys with cysts and concretions. (Edema of the lungs, and obstructive plugs in the pulmonary arteries. The cases 39, 40, 41, and 42 are instances in which the throm- bosis of the sinuses must be regarded as the final result of chronic cachexia. But cases are not wanting in which quickly operating and highly debilitating influences lead to thrombosis of the sinuses, as will be shown in the following examples. Profuse haemorrhages and fluid discharges are of especial importance in this respect. Case 43 d—A woman, aged twenty-three, was twice attacked by peritonitis in the first week after delivery, for the cure of which repeated copious abstractions of blood were made during nine days. Twice, namely, forty leeches were applied, and twice twenty, or 120 altogether. A fortnight after delivery, headache and vomit- ing supervened, followed by hemiplegia. Great restlessness and screaming; coma and, finally, death three weeks after delivery. It must be added that, in consequence of these new symptoms, the patient was bled once from the arm, and fifteen leeches applied on various occasions. Sectio.—The superior longitudinal sinus was seen very much dis- tended, and of a glittering blackish appearance. It was filled by a clot, in the centre of which was a puriform fluid, resembling wine lees. The right lateral sinus, which was double at its commence- ment, also contained a similar fluid, blocked up in the direction of the jugular vein by a firm thrombus. The other sinuses quite nor- mal. There were eccliymoses in the gray matter on the surface of the brain, especially in the course of the inflamed (thrombosed) veins on the convex surface and base. In the true pelvis, two depo- sits of pus ; in the veins of the uterus, corresponding to the place of attachment of the placenta, very firm, small, black plugs. In the c;;T:ity of the chest nothing abnormal. This case is certainly worthy of remark. That in childbed coa- gulations in the veins are of frequent occurrence is well known, but these are observed chiefly in the uterine veins, the plexus pampini- formis (ovarian veins) or the lower extremities, and their causation may generally be referred to a haemorrhagic or mechanical origin, such as compression or dilatation. But thrombosis from marasmus