LIGHT. 15 Tig. 4. light, reflecting mirrors pierced by a hole in their centre, even when we have the light of the sun at our disposal; in that case, the concave mirror is perhaps replaced by one that is flat. The reasons which have determined me to employ the perforated mirrors under all circumstances are the following : 1. The eye of the observer can always see with facility by looking through the opening in the direction of the rays reflected by the illumi- nating mirror (Tig. 4). In this way, the same objects that are found re- flected by the laryngeal mirror are always observed illuminated in the most vivid manner. 2. There is never any risk of throwing a shadow with the head upon the objects which it is desired to illuminate. 3. Lastly, the individual can be examined in almost any position that is desired. The illuminating mirror, which is flat or concave, possesses a circular form, a diameter of three to four inches, and a focal distance of eight to twelve inches; it is attached to a stem with two branches, and remains moveable upon its horizontal axis; it can be arranged at a convenient inclination by the aid of a screw which is placed upon the longer pivot. The spot perforated, or not silvered over in the mirror, has a diameter of one fifth of an inch, and is placed at or a little to the outer side of the centre, but always in the horizontal axis. Fig. 4. k, Laryngeal mirror; to the right is the illuminating mirror, perforated. The continuous lines represent the out- line of the luminous fasciculi which are interrupted at the laryngeal mirror k. The dotted line represents the visual axis of the eye placed before the mirror. As in ophthalmoscopic obser- vations, the mirror is placed in a convenient position before the eye; it is there maintained, either by the aid of the hand which holds the stem, or, to permit of both hands being free, by the aid of a handle intro- duced between the teeth, or, again, by means of the frontal bandage of Kramer (Tig. 5), Tig. 5. Fig. 5. Frontal bandage of Kramer, with its pinion, to which the stem of the mirror is attached with the assistance ot a free joint. The pinion is placed above the right or left eye.