ARITHMETIC MEANS. 273 investigator might, on the other hand, have required a still greater preponderance of the mean difference. It is true that my process is a very stringent one, and that in my rules I require that the amount of the mean difference should he pretty considerable, and this is the ground of the so-called antagonism.\ of mathematics to practical knowledge which has been referred to above, i. e., the cause of the circumstance that my rules occasionally deny sufficient certainty to the conclusion, notwithstanding that series A exhibits numbers that preponderate greatly over those of series B. However, I must, as far as I myself am concerned, stand by these rules of mine, which are so stringent, and require so much, because I feel the necessity of a rather high degree of certainty; because such large superstructures are erected on physiological and pharmacological conclusions; and because new theories, or perhaps new methods of treatment, may be founded upon these conclusions, whose effect, both upon science and practice, is restrictive in propor- tion as those theories are considered to be well founded, whilst it is too easily forgotten that they are based upon data that are only more or less probable, rather than certain. If Dr. Lehmann is satisfied with a less amount of security, and feels convinced of the activity of an agent when the mean difference exceeds the mean fluctuation of only one of the series compared, no one will contest his right to be so, and we must admit that he has under the circumstances a tolerable degree of probability to guide him in his decision. But, so far as I am concerned, such a degree is not sufficient to enable me to base my conclusions on a certainty proportionate to the importance of the consequences that may be drawn from them. But Dr. Lehmann lies under a misconception, when he asks whether, “ in the cases in which my rules do not admit of any deter- mination it would be better not to possess the numbers which the observations afford, or to avail ourselves of them, so far as their indi- vidual value may allow,” with the remark that, for his own part, he has no hesitation in deciding in favour of the latter half of the alterna- tive. The meaning of my rules is not, as Dr. Lehmann appears to think,1 that the observations are to be thrown aside if they give no 1 Dr. Lehmann in several places erroneously expresses himself, to the effect that when my rules admit of no determination, mathematics have nothing to do with the numbers, and that then, other considerations must intervene, to admit of any result being arrived at. It is sufficiently clear, from what has been said