140 ATROPHY OF THE 36 mm., on the right 29; the length of the left scapula from the supe- rior to the inferior margin was 152mm., of the right it was only 136; the breadth of this bone from the margin of the articular cavity across to the dorsal edge was, on the left 97 mm., on the right 88 mm.; the length of the left humerus was 319, of the right 233 mm.; the circumference at the insertion of the deltoid was, on the left 59, on the right 48 mm., while the entire length of the left arm from the top of the humerus to the point of the longest finger amounted to 713 mm., that of the right to only 669, showing a difference of not less than 44 mm. But it is remarkable that this difference in length and thickness was particularly conspicuous in the upper portion, as the clavicle, scapula, and humerus, and was somewhat less in the radius and ulna, while the length of the hands from the upper edge of the os naviculare to the point of the mid- dle finger was equal in both extremities, namely, 179 mm.; the thickness, or rather the circumference, of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger was somewhat greater on the left or unaffected side, viz., 27 mm. against 22 mm. on the right side. The difference between the inferior extremities, although considerable, was less decided than between the arms ; thus, the length of the leg from the upper point of the external trochanter of the femur to the inferior edge of the ancle was, on the left 767, on the right 734 mm.; while, therefore, the difference in the length of the arms was 44 mm., that of the legs amounted to only 33 mm. Again, the feet, from the posterior margin of the heel to the point of the great toe, were of precisely the same length, just as was the case with the hands; even the thickness of the os metatarsi of the great toe in the middle was somewhat greater, namely, 43 mm. on the right to 41 mm. on the left side, but the length of this bone on the left side exceeded that of the corresponding bone on the right, in the proportion of 57 mm. to 54 mm. In the ribs the difference between the right and left sides, although less strongly marked, was distinct enough, but in a descending order. Thus, the difference in length between the first ribs of the right and left sides amounted to 20 mm., between the seventh to 6 mm., and between the eleventh to 2 mm. A similar inequality was also perceptible in the pelvis; the height from the upper edge of the crest of the ilium to the tuberosity of the ischium was, on the left 210, on the right not more than 204 mm.; from the upper margin of the pubis to the tuberosity of the ischium it was, on the left 97, on the right 93 mm.;