96 THROMBOSIS OF THE and eight days after the appearance of symptoms death ensued, not preceded by any striking cerebral phenomena. Sectio.—A membranous exudation was found upon the outer and inner surface of the dura mater, connecting it with the arachnoid. The superior longitudinal sinus was filled with pus. There were cir- cumscribed purulent peritonitis and pleurisy, and numerous abscesses in the liver. Although in this somewhat imperfectly reported case no mention is made of caries, the same appears very probable on account of the detachment of the periosteum; but, no doubt, the thrombosis must be referred to the inflammatory process in the wound. Lastly, there exists another series of cases in which, without demonstrable caries of the bones of the skull, and without traumatic elements, through inflammation of external tissues which belong partly at least to the region of vessels of the sinuses of the brain, thrombosis of the latter was produced. Case 27.1—A scrofulous girl, two years old, who had a sore on the right occiput, died in an adynamic condition after the super- vention of convulsions and cerebral symptoms. Sectio.—The lateral sinus was distended to double its normal size, and full of stinking pus, which contained small solid clots with coagulated blood; the inner surface was lined with a false membrane. There was, moreover, purulent meningitis. Lebert, who also gives this case, supposes the existence of caries overlooked by Tonnele; but, although this is not improbable, and although we cannot regard the inflammation of the sinus in this case as a spontaneous one, as Tonnele has done, it is not necessary to assume the existence of caries to explain the connexion, since the sinuses in part receive the blood from the integument of the skull (emissaria Santorini), by which means an intimate vascular con- nexion between the suppurating sore and the sinus is established, through which a thrombus might extend from without into the sinus. Case 28.2—Another girl, two years old, had freely suppurating 1 Tonnele, ‘Archives Gen. de Med.,’xix, ser. 1, 1829, 610; Lebert, loc. citat., 86. 2 Tonnele, in ‘Rust’s Magazine,’ xli, 139, 1834 (nacli Albers).