ON THE USE OF £98 methods to compare it with. Soon after the close of the war I had the best opportunity of making such comparisons on the very largest scale. In the autumn of 1851 I went to Paris, and visited there diligently the surgical -wards and hospitals in all parts of that large city. Sud- denly they were filled with wounded of all descriptions, in conse- quence of the massacres and street-riots which took place on the 4th and 5th of December. I felt great interest in the progress and treatment of these various wounds, and gave my whole attention to them, visiting especially those wards into which the wounded had been taken. Those who are acquainted with Paris know that it is almost im- possible to visit more than one hospital in the day, in consequence of the great distances, and because the visits are made in almost all hospitals at one and the same hour in the morning. I had, there- fore, no other course to take than to visit in a certain succession those wards which contained the greatest number of wounded, and, with the help of notes, to keep a record of the severest cases. I had a right to trust my judgment in the matter, as during three campaigns I had watched, and had myself treated, a great number of gunshot wounds. When the lectures of the Paris surgeons, and their discussions in the Academy of Medicine, on the gunshot wounds wdiicli had occurred in Pebruary and June, 1848, wrere arranged and translated into German in 1849 by Dr. Wierer, from the reports of the f Gazette des Hopitaux/ I read them with the greatest interest, and was, as well as my colleagues, very much astonished to find what diametrically opposite views, partly sustained by statistical statements, were held by the most celebrated Trench surgeons on the most important points. Now I had an opportunity of watching with my own eyes the results of such various views and methods of treat- ment, and what I saw' by no means diminished my astonishment. Some, perhaps, who have read the book just referred to may have formed the opinion that success in surgery is due more to good luck than to the method of treatment; to me it has become most evident, after the observations I myself made on the spot, that success in surgery is essentially due to the principles which the surgeon follows in the treatment of his patients. First of all, I found a great difference in the way in which army and civil surgeons treated their cases. 1 shall enter into it only as much ns it concerns us here.