THROMBOSIS 01 THE 94 dura inater was infiltrated with pus. The veins, which were in many places distended, contained thick, yellow pus, which extended into the longitudinal sinus. The coats of these veins were thickened, the Pacchionian glands in the neighbourhood of the falx quite full of pus. The walls of the longitudinal sinus were for the most part healthy; at some spots, however, the mouths of the veins were thickened and mostly rough from exfoliation; at all these points, firm, yellowish-white, fibrinous clots were attached, partly flat, partly in the form of tufts hanging free in the blood of the sinus coagu- lated after death. These clots consisted of fibrinous capsules filled with fluid pus. The further channel of the longitudinal sinus and the lateral sinuses were full of recently coagulated blood. There was offensive purulent exudation in the sac of the arachnoid on the right side, and purulent infiltration of the membranes of the brain, the right hemisphere being strongly compressed by the exudation. The membranes of the left side looked dull; there were effusion into the ventricles, and metastatic abscesses of the lung and liver. Case 23.1—A soldier, set. 22, who had received a gun-shot wound of the right parietal bone, was soon afterwards seized with giddi- ness and accessions of fever. An abscess formed in the hairy scalp, and the wounded man died with symptoms of pysemia, to which were added, on the 29th day after the injury, oppression of the chest and diarrhoea. Sectio.—In the posterior part of the longitudinal sinus pure pus was found; in the anterior portion a firm clot, mingled with fleshy fibres. The bone at the point of injury was rough, and the dura mater at that spot discoloured. There were purulent meningitis with effusion into the ventricles, purulent pleurisy of both sides, metastatic abscesses in the lungs, and inflammation of the liver. Injuries of the skull, followed by inflammation in the vicinity of them, even if caries of the bones of the skull, as in the two last- mentioned cases, does not occur, also sometimes lead to thrombosis of the sinuses, as will be shown in the following cases. Case 24.2—A soldier, set. 21, was wounded by a grenade in the right parietal bone. Swelling of the left parotid and of the neck followed, accompanied by accessions of fever and diarrhoea. The 1 Sclnnuckcr, ‘ Chirurgische Wahrnelnmnigen,’ 465. - Schmucker, loc. citat., p. 126.