296 ON THE USE OF months together, and I have several times observed that in such cases the inflammatory process has revived when I have discon- tinued the cold, and that the patients have implored me to let them have the ice again. If the abstraction of heat gets disagreeable to the patient, if he begins to complain of chilliness of the whole body and dragging pains in the inflamed part, we must, in the first place, make sure that the cold is not being injudiciously applied. It happens often that the degree of cold is too high for the case of inflammation which we have to treat, and then it is sufficient to regulate it by placing a pad of lint between the ice-bag and the part, or to diminish the surface of contact. Generally, the uncomfortable feeling subsides at once, but where this is not the case we must discontinue the cold altogether; this must be done gradually, to avoid a too powerful reaction in the part. There are, indeed, certain individuals who, under any circum- stances, even if every possible care be taken, cannot bear the appli- cation of cold, but these are very exceptional cases. On what causes this curious idiosyncrasy really depends, I have not yet been able to ascertain; where we meet with it we must not enforce the use of our remedy, which might prove dangerous, but must try our luck with other antiphlogistic methods. It is by no means merely in acute inflammatory processes that cold is such an efficient remedy. It has proved serviceable to me also in so many cases of chronic inflammation that I always feel it my duty in such cases to try, in the first instance, what may be done by it. Although it certainly retards the local changes of the part, it by no means prevents the absorption of extravasated blood and of inflammatory products, but, on the contrary, hastens it in the proper cases. In chronic inflammation of the joints I have not unfrequently applied bags of ice for months together, and have seen under such treatment the swelling and other symptoms decrease, slowly, it is true, but continuously. If we now specially consider those morbid conditions for the relief of which we apply our remedy, we shall find that the effect of the cooling treatment becomes, of course, most visible in those cases in which the inflammation tends to develop itself in area and in in- tensity. Wounds of all kinds heal often rapidly and without suppuration under the influence of a moderate and continued abstraction of heat. But let it be understood that I am by no means of opinion