no THROMBOSIS OF THK 1 Cruveilhier, loc. citat., liv. 20, pi. iv, p. 4. tion for trephining, and, lastly, the five bleedings within a short period, belong certainly to the debilitating causes which contributed their quota to the thrombosis, although the probability of a trau- matico-hsemorrhagic thrombosis cannot be disputed, and these ele- ments may all have exercised their influence simultaneously. If the last mentioned had been the cause, however, we should rather have expected to find a thrombus already breaking down. Case 45.1—A servant girl, set. 20, who had been ill a week, was suffering on admission into the hospital from diarrhoea, with a red and rather dry tongue. She answered only briefly and slowly. In twelve days, symptoms of pleuro-pneumonia of the right side showed themselves. Other cerebral symptoms, such as contractions of the muscles of the neck, and afterwards of all the muscles, epileptiform convulsions of the right side, and coma, supervened; and death ensued on the 2 2d day after her admission into the hospital. Sectio.—111 the superior longitudinal sinus a firm, adherent thrombus, which was partly in a state of purulent decomposition in its interior; in the cerebral veins, black, firm, adherent plugs, dis- coloured at some points; and in the lateral sinuses adherent, buffy coagula. On the surface of the left hemisphere of the cerebrum, in the vicinity of the longitudinal sinus, capillary apoplexy and red softening, extending partly into the medullary substance. O11 the right side, the red softening was less extensive and less advanced. The lower lobe of the right lung was in the second stage of hepatiza- tion. About a foot above the csecal valve, there were three round (ring-shaped ? circulates) ulcers. The mesenteric glands swollen, of a livid red colour, but not softened. Whether we have here to do with a case of typhus with secondary pneumonia cannot be clearly proved, on account of the insufficient description of the post-mortem appearances, but this assumption appears plausible. The throm- bosis in the sinuses, which developed itself with its consequences after the occurrence of the pneumonia, may fairly be regarded as resulting from marasmus, unless we regard the cerebral affection as metastatic, and the thrombosis as a continuation; an assumption, however, which appears to me much more forced. The following case is exactly similar.