ON THE USE OF 284 processes is the increase of temperature in the inflamed part, which is accompanied with an increase of temperature of the whole mass of blood and of the entire body (fever). ^ We know that this increase of temperature proceeds, on the one hand; from increased textural changes hi the inflamed tissues, and on the other hand, and especially, from an increased flow of blood through the blood-vessels of the part. Now, if we possess a remedy which diminishes the temperature of the inflamed part as well as that of the whole body, and which, at the same time, removes the sources of the abnormal production of heat, I think we may call it, with full propriety, an antiphlogistic remedy; and that we really do possess such a remedy in cold is amply proved by experiments, as well as by observation at the bed- side of the sick. If we dip a warm and turgid hand for a time into cold water, we notice that it soon becomes pale and cold, that its size is decreased, and its sensibility lessened. The cold water has deprived the im- mersed member of a part of its warmth. If we then take the hand out of the cold water and dry it, we shall have to wait some time before the blood which is circulating in its blood-vessels will have supplied it with warmth enough to equal the temperature of the other hand. A bladder filled with ice will act in the same way on any part of the body with which it has been in contact for a time. The longer the contact lasts the deeper will the effect extend, and the longer will be the time which will be required, after the removal of the bladder, for the circulating blood to raise the temperature of the cooled part to its original standard. The same effect may be obtained in very different ways, but, whatever method we use in applying cold, its first and immediate action will always be to deprive the part to which it is applied of more warmth than it would lose under ordinary circumstances, whether exposed to the air or covered with cloths or blankets. This deprivation of warmth acts, at the same time, as a strong irritant, and produces, as such, an energetic contraction of the involuntary muscles of the skin and of those of the blood-vessels. The papillae of the skin become more prominent, and the part grows paler, because less blood circulates in the contracted blood-vessels.1 If the cause of irritation is soon removed, dilatation of the blood-vessels follows at once, and with it 1 According to Donders, the circulation of blood is slower also in cooled parts.