31 RHINOSCOPY. of a spatula, of which the flat part contained an opening. The ap- plication of this hook did not cause the slightest inconvenience in the present instance, and after regulating the inclination and position of the mirror which I had introduced into the pharynx with my right hand, I was enabled to complete, by degrees, a satisfactory and clear examination of the part affected, that permitted me to make a representation of the state of it, as shown in the annexed figure (Kg. 12). We observe, in Tig. 12, the posterior orifices of the nasal fossae separated by the septum, the poste- rior surface of the velum palati with the uvula slightly inclined towards the right side, and the posterior orifice of the Eustachian tube of the right side. The right side (n), which is natu- rally the left side of the image re- flected by the mirror, is perfectly normal, and we can perceive through the posterior orifice of the nasal fossa of the same side a portion of the upper part of the turbinated bones, and a portion of the meatus of the right side, whilst the inferior parts are hidden by the velum palati. On the left side, on the contrary, we observe two morbid swellings of the mucous membrane developed, in front and above the pharyngo- palatine arch, which extend up to the opening of the Eustachian tube. These two tumours prevented our seeing the catheter when it was introduced, and seem to conceal almost completely the posterior orifice of the nasal fossa of the same side, which are seen only in the form of a small fissure. These tumours, of which one part assumed the form of the comb of a cock, and of which the base constituted the lateral wall of the pharynx, were enclosed between the posterior wall of the pharynx and velum palati, which they compressed a little to the right by their superior part; this explains why the uvula was not found in the median line beneath the septum of division of the nasal fossae. The superior tumour, which was the larger, corresponded by its swollen extremity to the posterior border of the orifice of the Fig. 12. Rhinoscopic view of the posterior nares, and of the velum palati. On one side (R), the orifice of the Eustachian tube is seen, which, on the other side (L) is covered by two tumours.