LARYNGOSCOPE. 28 Iii order to show how much rhinoscopy justifies the hopes which 1 have formed of its general application in medicine, and in order also to incite others to employ and to improve it, I shall here relate the first pathological observation made in the pharyngo-nasal cavity by means of the rhinoscopic method upon a patient afflicted with an alteration of his hearing, and attended by my friend, Dr. Hirscli- ler, of Pesth. I am indebted to his kindness for the following account of it: “ P. S—, a student, has already suffered, since the age of four years, from an otorrhcea of both ears, which, up to the age of fifteen, was renewed almost every year, or at least every two years. (His young brother, who is actually living at Pesth, has likewise become a little deaf in consequence of an otorrhcea; and another brother, still quite young, is also afflicted with otorrhoea.) “ It is now two years and a half since I saw this patient for the first time, who attributed the violent pains in his ears to a jump with his head forward from a jumping-board, at the swimming school. The symptoms present were those of a dermoid inflamma- tion of the external auditory meatus throughout its entire extent, accompanied by an affection of the tympanum; but the two dis- eases rapidly disappeared by the seclusion of the patient for a cer- tain time to his room, by local bleeding, and by an antiphlogistic regimen. Six weeks after, the patient suffered from a relapse; the disease had become more acute, and was likewise accompanied by severe pain and buzzing of the ears; it became necessary, neverthe- less, to apply a blister, sprinkled with tartar emetic, behind the ear. By this treatment the morbid symptoms quickly disappeared, and were dispelled by degrees; but the artificial ulceration which had been produced over the mastoid process was slowly cured, and left a cicatrix. Since that time, the patient had no other reason to complain of his ear. “ A short time back, as I was informed by his aunt, tliis young man was for a long period positively a little deaf; I examined his ear in the month of February last, and observed the following phe- nomena : the transmission of sound by the bones of the head took 1859, to a number of persons, the various parts of the pharyngo-nasal cavity, and the extremity of a tube introduced into the Eustachian tube through the nose; this experiment was made upon an individual affected with an oblong fissure of the velum palati.