118 THROMBOSIS OE THE clot. Iii six cases the superior longitudinal sinus alone was the seat of the thrombosis, in seven it extended from the superior longi- tudinal sinus into both lateral sinuses, in one from the straight sinus into both the lateral. In two cases only were the superior longitudinal and right lateral sinus alone thrombosed. The thrombi present, for the most part, a symmetrical form. This phenomenon plainly indicates that the cause of the thrombosis in these cases was not a local but a general one, the influence of which affected equally both sides of the skull, and extended, by preference, symmetrically from the azygous superior longitudinal or straight sinus beyond the torcular herophili into both lateral sinuses, or was confined to the superior longitudinal sinus alone. The character of the thrombi also differs considerably in the two series. In the first series, most of the thrombi (in twenty-six cases out of thirty-two) had already undergone rather advanced changes; and, as regards their condition in cases of caries of the petrous bone, I refer my readers to what I have already stated in the appropriate place, from which it appears that in four cases only was the thrombus firm, more or less discoloured, and not exhibiting in its interior any signs of softening and molecular decay. In the remaining twelve cases of the first section it is seen, with the exception of cases 31 and 32, in which more minute details are wanting, that the thrombi are always more or less broken down already, and either changed completely into a puriform or even sanious mass, or consist of pseudo-membranous coagula mixed with puriform matter. Amongst the cases of thrombosis which I have grouped together as resulting from marasmus, it is seen, on the contrary, that in eleven cases the thrombus was not yet discoloured, or, if discoloured, still of firm, at the most crumbling consistence; and that in five cases only the plug was softened in its interior, where it contained puriform fluid resembling wine-lees in colour, while these changes never reached the periphery of the thrombus, and the walls of the sinus remained unaltered. On the other hand, roughness of the inner coat, thickening of the walls, and discoloration, or even, as is distinctly stated in some cases, ulceration of them, are frequently mentioned in the cases of the first section. This difference in the character of the thrombus must either result from the longer or shorter time required for its formation, or from some original differ- ence in its nature. Both seem to be the case. I11 thrombus from marasmus the process is effected, as one of the last results of previous