CEREBRAL SINUSES. 97 eczema of the hairy scalp. The discharge suddenly decreased, cere- bral symptoms showed themselves which indicated an affection of the left hemisphere, and terminated in death. Sectio.—In the posterior part of the longitudinal sinus was found a plug broken down by suppuration, the walls of the sinus were thickened, and the veins communicating with it were seen to be filled with stiff thrombi. Beneath the arachnoid on the left side there was an extravasation of blood. As regards the origin of the thrombus, this case manifestly resembles the preceding one, and admits of precisely similar remarks. Case 29.1.—In a man, set. 27, who had been exposed to severe cold, marked feverish symptoms were followed by headache, pain in the eyes, protrusion of the eyeballs, oedema of the eyelids, and a very painful swelling of the right side of the neck; indications of the existence of pyaemia supervened, and death occurred on the 23d day of the disease. Sectio.—There was purulent phlebitis of the right cavernous sinus, of the veins opening into it, of the ophthalmic vein, the cir- cular sinus, the petrosal and lateral sinuses on both sides, the jugular veins, the vena innominata dextra, and of the veins of the nape of the neck and the vertebral canal, besides abscesses in the cellular tissue of the orbits. There was also found circumscribed purulent menin- gitis, with superficial softening of the substance of the base of the brain on the right side, and a clot of blood upon the medulla oblongata. Further, metastatic abscesses and hsemorrhagic infarcta in the lungs, acute enlargement of the spleen, and distension of the kidneys. Case 30.2—A man, set. 26, who had suppurating parotitis pene- trating into the meatus auditorius externus, consequent upon double pneumonia, died with indications of pyaemia and cerebral disease. Sectio.—There were extensive disorganization and purulent infil- tration of the tissues around the right parotid gland, the temples, the neck, and lower jaw; the articulation of the lowrer jaw and the external meatus were laid open by the pus. Broken-down thrombus 1 Castelnau et Ducrost, ‘Itecherches sur les Abces multiples,’ Paris, 1846, 238; Lebert, loc. citat., 388. 2 Virchow, * Gesammelte Abhandlungen zur wissensch. Med./ 620. 7