24 7 ARITHMETIC MEANS. of sodium. With the view of getting as accurate a survey as possible of the fluctuations, I undertook to make a diagrammatic table of the whole of the fluctuations about the Mean of the eighty-seven days, viz., 34.47. The vertical lines in Figure I, which is a copy of this one,1 and in which 0.0 is the line of the general Mean, indicate the limits within which the dose of salt fluctuated. The first glance confirms unhe- sitatingly the suspicion expressed above of the presence of a period of fluctuation of short duration; and what is most surprising, it shows that this period is exactly one of two days. Only in four instances does this period vary by a single day; and the first of these coincides with an interruption of the observations for one day, so that, in fact, there is 110 variation at all; whilst in the three other instances the observations exhibit a stationary quantity. The fluctuations in these periods are, for the most part, of considerable amount; so that if we take the Means of the observations in pairs, we get a series of num- bers with a sensibly uniform course. The dotted line in the figure exhibits the outline of this series of numbers (the aggregate Mean being again assumed as the basis line). This figure will render it completely clear why, in the above tables, the limits of uncertainty deduced from the Successive Means appear so much smaller than the mean fluctuations. If we now calculate, which, after establishing the existence of a period of two days, is permissable, the mean fluctuations from the Means of the observations taken in pairs, instead of from the obser- vations themselves, we arrive at the following results : I- 35-55 ± -64- II. 35.95 + 1.06 III. 33.02 ± .86 IV. 34.31 ± .87 V. 34.28 ± 1.02 VI. 33-95 ±"-74- VII. 34.20 ± .57. f 36:70 ± .35 134.61 ±.85. In the double numbers of series II, the upper one refers to the first six, and the lower to the last four days. After looking at these numbers no one will be likely to ascribe any influence over the excretions of urea to the doses of salt. If we examine the course of the observations after the elimination of the fluctuations of the period of two days, we observe that it be- 1 This table is unaccountably omitted in the original .—Translator. 16