102 THROMBOSIS OF THE may be looked upon as secondary. The inflammation of the outer coat of the small vessels could only be assumed as a determining condition for the formation of thrombus, in so far as the firm infil- tration of the cellular tissue prevents the collapse of the veins. This view, against which many objections may indeed be urged, is by no means new, and we find allusions to it in the very suggestive f Rational Pathology/ of Henle,1 who did not overlook the favor- able conditions for the formation of thrombus, which exist in the noil-contractile veins as well as in the sinuses of the dura mater, the veins of the bones, and in veins of which the coats are paralysed or thickened and indurated. In the same work it is also remarked that in cases of stagnation in the capillary system of vessels from dimi- nished vis a tergo, the blood of the veins originating there may lose its motion and coagulate, and inflammations of veins apparently result from stagnation in the capillaries. But it is far from my intention to apply this theory to all cases of so-called secondary thrombosis, and I appreciate the objections which may be made to it. Above all, it may be urged that thrombi have not been observed in the small veins, and that this, explanation is therefore inadmissible. But if we bear in mind how difficult it is to trace small vessels, and especially veins, in decomposed tissues, since the small venous trunks in which the thrombosis has had its origin have, in most cases, undergone decomposition in common with their thrombi before death occurred, this objection will lose much of its force. There have even been cases of phlegmonous inflam- mation in which it was impossible to discover any thrombi, or in- flammatory changes in the larger vessels, but in which the presence of metastatic deposits in the lungs rendered the assumption of the previous existence and decomposition of thrombi in the smaller vessels necessary. II. Thrombosis of the Minuses in consequence of a diminution of calibre from intrusion of foreign bodies and from compression. The formation of thrombus from the causes given in the heading to this section, is a priori very probable, although the few cases to be met with in the literature of the subject for the most part indi* 1 Loc. citat., ii, 516 and 517.