302 ON THE USE OF Caillou. Some of them died of pyaemia who, 1 am certain, would have been saved in the Gros-Caillou. In the other civil hospitals I observed the same results obtained by the same kind of treatment, fn some few cases, where the bandages had been put on with great care, gunshot fractures were, indeed, cured without the help of ice, but the whole process was infinitely more unfavorable and tedious than iii the military hospitals. These comparisons tended necessarily to confirm my opinion of the value of cold, and I returned home with the resolution to test this remedy in all ways—to decide, in fact, what results could really be obtained by it. I have since had ample opportunity of carrying out my resolution, and I think that, on the whole, I have reason to be well pleased with the results. I have a great number of serious cases to adduce which I have succeeded in curing by making use of the antiphlogistic powTer of cold. I believe, with the help of ice, that I have saved a considerable number of limbs which, without it, would have had to fall before the knife. I have, therefore, no greater wish than to see this remedy more generally introduced into surgical practice. I think it necessary to prove my assertions by recording the ob- servations I have made in my ow n practice; I will therefore give the history of a few cases of compound fracture, which will tend to con- firm, by results obtained in civil practice, the experience acquired during military service. Case i.—Compound fracture; application of ice during eight weeks.—IT. R—, a strong, working-man, set. 28, got a compound fracture of his tibia and fibula, with considerable contusion and laceration of the surrounding soft parts. This w-as caused by a heavy sack of grain falling from thirty feet high, out of the trapdoor of a corn-loft, upon his left leg. The patient was at once taken into Friedrich's Hospital. The tibia and fibula w7ere found broken in their middle, and the lower, sharp fragment of the tibia protruded through a large, lacerated wound of the skin. We suc- ceeded soon, by extension, in bringing the bones back into their normal position. The leg wras then enveloped w ith Scultetus's ban- dages, and placed on a Keister's splint; twro large bags of ice were put over the region of the w7ound. Immediately after the accident the pulse was small and feeble, but became towards evening so full and strong that the patient was ordered to be bled to twelve