295 COLD IN SURGEIIY. The parts adjacent to the diseased texture, which are not to be exposed to the cold, may be covered with a thin layer of cotton- wool. These cold-water-boxes are, I confess, in the first instance rather expensive, but when once procured, as for hospital use, they are of great advantage, much ice being saved by their employ men 1. In bad cases, of course, they do not obviate the necessity for the application of ice-bags, Sec. We now turn our attention to the indications which are to guide us in the use of the constant abstraction of heat, and it may be stated in general terms that the more acute and severe the inflam- mation is, and the more important the inflamed part for the organism, the more urgently indicated is the application of this treatment. The direct effect of the treatment is, of course, more powerful in proportion as the inflamed part is nearer to the surface of the body, but deeper-seated parts are by no means inaccessible to cold. We observe that in inflammation of internal organs, such as the lungs, heart, abdominal cavity, See., the treatment by cold is becoming more general. To determine how long a time we ought to proceed with the application of cold in a particular case is a more difficult question. As long as there is any abnormal increase of temperature, the abstrac- tion of heat acts, as a rule, beneficially. But we shall probably come to a much more accurate estimate, and shall be able to determine with the thermometer how long the remedy is to be continued, in the same way as Traubc, Wunderlich, and others, take measurements of -temperature for their guidance in the treatment of fever cases. 1 have occupied myself some time now with measurements of the kind, but have not come to any conclusion yet as regards this point. But it is certain that the use of cold is not indicated in the first stages exclusively of acute inflammation. The setting in of sup- puration is by no means a reason for discontinuing the abstraction of heat, nor is even the occurrence of gangrene, if it be caused by the severity of the inflammation. These processes, on the contrary, run generally a much more favorable course under cooling treatment than under the so much bepraised use of cataplasms.1 Generally, we may be guided by the feelings of the patient. In severe injuries and violent inflammations they feel relief from cold sometimes for 1 Compare Prof. Stromeyer’s f Maximen der KriegsbeiikunsV 2nd edition, p. 310. .19