ATROPHY OF THE 170 discussion of the question how far this affection of the ganglia may have been secondary or primary, but I think there are many reasons for admitting that a primary affection of these ganglia may some- times arise, the result of which is a peripheric inflammation or change in the vegetative process,1 although, perhaps, the affection in the ganglia may more frequently be secondary. 1 This view is strongly supported by the remarkable experiments of Dr. Sehiff, who succeeded in dividing the ganglion of the nervus vagus in rabbits, without injuring the accompanying motor branch of the recurrent nerve, the consequence being that no paralysis of the rima glottidis was produced. If he performed this operation on both sides, stagnation of blood and hardening or hepatization took place in definite circumscribed situations, particularly in the superior lobes of the lungs; if he operated only on one side, so that the life of the animal was prolonged, after from three to seven days white, grayish, firm indurations were developed in the upper lobe of the lung; these were, in fact, pulmonary tubercles; in this case, therefore, the tubercles were absolutely the result of a peripheric action of the nerve (see Sehiff, “Ueber die Lungenveran- derung nach Durchschneidung der pneumog. Nerven,” in Hose und Wunder- lich * Archiv fur Heilk. Pliys.’ 6 Jahrg., 8 Heft, pp. 769 et seq.) Since, as experience has taught me, we so often see pulmonary' consumption occur in families some members of which are affected with insanity, so that I have often seen that the children who were spared from insanity were the victims of phthisis, and that the two diseases frequently alternate with one another, or coexist, the question has often suggested itself to me, whether we might not admit the existence of a phthisis excentrica, namely, one whose first cause is to be sought in an irritated condition of the medulla oblongata and the vagus, such as so frequently occurs in phthisical subjects. It must remain for further investigations to confirm this view; I shall only add that in such cases we often observe signs of spinal irritation in the neck, and that cupping and blistering often prove eminently useful. It is particularly important to remark that patients who labour under soften- ing of the brain often die of an affection of the lungs. Durand Fardel says : “Les accidents auxquels succombent les sujets affectes de ramollissement cerebral chronique, ou meme aigu, ont presque toujours leur siege dans les poumons.” (‘Sur le ramollissement du Cerveau/ loc. cit., p. 434.) He deems the subject of sufficient importance to devote some chapters to it, and thinks especially that weakness of the circulation, and the consequent congestion and effusion in the lungs, occasion pneumonia. I was much struck with the fact, that among the cases of atrophy of the brain on record most of the patients died of phthisis, pneumonia, or enlargement of the heart; but I should doubt that a weakened circulation of blood through the lungs is of itself sufficient to explain this circumstance. See also Engel, in * Prager Yierteljahrschrift,’ vii Jahrg., Band iii. The connexion between a morbid affection of the medulla oblongata and pulmonary disease has, in my opinion, not been sufficiently attended to. Thus, it appears from Table A, of epileptic patients, in my essay on the e Spinal