ON THE USE OE 292 of lint between the ice-bag and the surface of the body, for to many patients it is inconvenient to have the india rubber in constant con- tact with the skin. Besides, by varying the number of layers of lint, between the ice and the part, we may adapt the degree of cold to the requirements of the case. It may be fairly objected that this mode of using ice is still too expensive for many patients. In less severe cases, especially, we cannot well expect a poor person to provide himself with india- rubber bags and to spend his money on pails of ice, of which a large quantity melts away without being used. Moreover, ice is not to be had at all places and at all times, so that it may be said that if, under such circumstances, we wish to use cold, we must, after all, use it in the form of cold wet compresses. Now, in Holstein, at my predecessor, Professor Stromeyer's, request, ice has been added to the pharmacopoeia, so that every apothecary is bound to have it always in store; besides, the use of ice, and with it the number of ice-sellers, increases from year to year; but, nevertheless, there are times in which the provision of ice is very scanty. This consideration, together with that of the means of the poorer classes of patients, has induced me to think of a method of applying dry cold in another and less expensive form. If an india-rubber bag be filled with cold pump-water, its power of abstracting heat is but very small, because india rubber is a bad conductor of heat. A pig's bladder, or a bit of gut, often refilled with fresh, cold water, will be found much more effective. To make such animal membranes waterproof, we must rub them well on both sides with lard or oil. But even then they become permeable after a time, and often get to smell so offensively that they have to be exchanged for new ones. Glass, and especially metals, are, as every one knows, very good conductors of heat. By means of them we are able to obtain con- siderable effects with ordinary fresh pump-water, and for some years past, I have been led to employ this mode of applying cold more and more extensively. I am in the habit of ordering for out-patients, instead of cold compresses, cold bottles, and have seen excellent results therefrom. Even the poorest patient can easily provide him- self with an ordinary medicine-bottle, or with a wine-bottle. If such a one be filled with cold water and well corked, and then applied to the inflamed part, the patient at once feels the comfort of its cooling influence, which lasts till the water has been warmed to a