CEREBRAL SINUSES. 113 Case 49.—A little girl, eleven years of age, sank after three days vomiting and diarrhoea. The bones of the skull overlapped each other. Sopor. Contraction of the muscles in the nape of the neck. Death. Sectio.—Cyanosis of the nose as far as its root, of a portion of the cheeks, of the upper lip and eyelids. The anterior facial vein on both sides fuller of blood than the posterior and lingual, but con- tains no thrombi. The greater fontanelle much sunk in, the bones of the skull overlapping each other. Air being blown into the right internal jugular vein, the fontanelle stands out and the overlapping of the bones disappears almost entirely. In the straight sinus and first half inch of both lateral sinuses is a crumbling, adherent, sym- metrically formed plug, quite discoloured, and completely obstructing the canal. Hypersemia and oedema of the brain and pia mater, with the plexuses. Both lungs present a considerable extent of atelec- tasis. Catarrh of intestinal canal. Spleen enlarged. Small extra- vasations and gelatinous thickenings at the free edges of the mitral and triscuspid valves. Case 50.—A bo}q three weeks old, was seized with diarrhoea and vomiting. Fontanelle depressed. Collapse, sopor, strabismus, paralysis of the right facial nerve. Contraction of the muscles of the nape of the neck and extremities. Right jugular vein somewhat less full than left. Later on, pulselessness and cyanosis of the face; the fontanelle fills out again and becomes tense; both jugulars equally imperfectly filled. Superficial veins of right ear much distended. Death in three days. Seciio.—Body shows signs of marasmus. Fontanelle and sutures moderately open and tense. In the superior longitudinal sinus a very abundant blackish-red coagulum, partially adherent, extending for some distance into the lateral sinuses. Pia mater and brain anaemic, the substance of the latter soft. In the right hemisphere a cavity occupying nearly its whole extent, with ragged walls, which contained a considerable bloody mass, and extended slightly to the left hemisphere. At the base of the cerebellum rather considerable extravasations in the course of the vessels of the pia mater. In the veins of that neighbourhood, at different points, black, rather firm, coagula. In the mitral and tricuspid valves abundant gelatinous thickenings; upon one fold of the latter, and in the outer coat of the ascending aorta, slight recent extravasation. Lungs inflated, 8