ATROPHY OF THE 172 the dura mater, in consequence of the inflammation of the arachnoid, or whether the Gasserian ganglion participates in this inflammation of the hemisphere, and has peripherically excited to increased action the outer lamina of the dura mater or the periosteum internum, which receives chiefly vegetative filaments from the fifth pair of nerves.1 The fact that the cerebral arachnoid was not connected with the dura mater and that the latter membrane exhibited nothing abnormal on the inner or concave side, appears to be in favour of the second view, as does also the increased thickness of the os jugale and of the left half of the lower jaw, which are under the influence of the fifth pair of nerves, and could not be directly affected by the disease of the brain. I regret, however, that in the dissection atten- tion was not directed to the state of this ganglion, which, never- theless, from the form of the skull, must have been altered in shape. with. In one case a tumour pressed on the left side of the medulla oblongata and nervus vagus, with paralysis on the right side; there was pleuritis with tubercles in the lungs, without any difference being mentioned between right and left, to which point, perhaps, no attention was given (1. c., tome i, pp. 526 et seq.). In two other cases the affection was on the opposite side; in one instance the pressure was on the left side, on the medulla oblongata, and all the nerves to the foramen lacerum; here there was pneumonia, with false mem- branes on the right side (1. c., tome i, p. 532). In the second case there was exostosis on the right side, pressing on the cerebellum and the protuberance ; the exostosis had grown from the petrous bone and the adjoining occipital bone, and must certainly have injured the medulla oblongata and nerves; there was pneumonia of the left side (l. c., tomeii, p. 123). In a case of a tumour on the left protuberance the patient died of phthisis (1. c., tome i, p. 760). In two other cases, where the vagus appeared not to be affected, there was no thoracic lesion (tome i, p. 537, and tome ii, p. 127). It is, however, important to observe, that inflammation of the lungs cannot always be traced to the direct influence of the nervous system ; almost all these patients suffer in the last periods of their lives from dyspepsia, and sometimes from an almost total inability to swallow, in consequence of which food falls into the trachea, producing inflammation of the lungs, as I myself have more than once observed. This difficulty of swallowing occurred also in nearly all the cases communicated by Brown-Sequard, although inflammation of the lungs was not always present; while, very often, affections of the lungs and phthisis occur in patients affected with epilepsy and cerebral disease, where deglutition is not impeded. 1 See Luschka’s beautiful drawing of this, f Die Nerven in der harten Hirn- haut/ Tubingen, 1850, tab. iii, page 98, where some osseous nerves from the Gasserian ganglion, which should be sympathetic filaments, are distinctly traced into the diploe of the cranium.