ATROPHY OP THE 152 oqe hemisphere of the brain appeared to be less involved, I will attach no importance to it in this respect. Boulanger finally gives a case of a child, who, in its second year, was attacked with paralysis of the right side and contraction of the limbs, and which, until its death, in its fourth year, exhibited unimpaired mental powers,1 and, nevertheless, the convolutions of the left anterior lobe of the brain were atrophied, hardened, and yellow. It is, in fact, a very important phenomenon, that the loss of one half of the brain may be combined with the perfect use of the intel- lectual faculties. Lallemand, in his otherwise acute observations on these cases, endeavours to throw doubt upon their accuracy; thus, he thinks it may be assumed that the loss of mental power has in these instances kept pace with the degree of paralysis in the limbs; but that the latter is more evident because we compare the remaining action of the sound half of the brain with the morbid state of the affected side of the body, so that in these cases the deficiency of intellectual power is less observed than the paralysis.2 But, in my opinion, he is not wholly impartial on this subject, as in the subse- quent explanation of the particular cases where the intellect appeared to be unimpaired he either endeavoured to throw doubt upon the case, and consequently upon the accuracy of the writer, as of Tliiau- diere; or, as in Andraks observation, which he admits to be most accurate, seeks to explain it by supposing that the anterior part of the hemispheres of the brain was uninjured ;3 which, it appears to me, is plainly refuted by Andraks own words, as quoted above. It is equally incorrect to compare the perfection of the intellectual faculties with the greater or less degree of paralysis which was pre- sent, by which mode Lallemand endeavours to save himself.4 1 “Les fonctions intellectuelles resterent saines, il parlait bien, aimait ajouer, a causer, et parvint ainsi jusqu’a l’age de quatre ans, epoque ii laquelle il mourut d’une peripneumonie.”—Lallemand, 1. c., obs. 45. To this I may add a case, communicated by Gall, of a clergyman, who suffered for a very long time from an erysipelatous affection of the forehead, and whose entire left side was so debilitated that in walking he was obliged to lean upon a stick; at length lie died some hours after an attack of apoplexy. Three days before his death he had preached and catechised ; after his death Gall found the half (he does not, however, say which half) of the right hemisphere of the cerebrum completely softened, and changed into a yellow granular substance. ‘ Sur les fonctions du Cerveau,’ tome ii, p. 247. 2 Lallemand, 1. e., pp. 328 et seq. 3 L. c., p. 339. 4 k. C., p. 339.