75 APPENDIX ON RHINOSCOPY. readily manage himself. Under these circumstances the palate-hook is superfluous. Should this not be the case—or, if a perfectly unrestrained view is desired—the soft palate must be artificially removed from the posterior wall of the pharynx. This can be accomplished, as I have already pointed out, if the velum—either voluntarily relaxed, or lowered by intonation of nasal sounds—is gently lifted up and drawn forwards by means of a flat hook, the size and curvature of which must vary according to the proportions of the parts. The difficulties of this and all other manipulations for the removal of the soft palate, are sometimes certainly very considerable— especially if the individual we have to deal with is irritable, awkward, resistant, or whose fauces are of unfavorable proportions. The inexperienced observer finds these difficulties almost insur- mountable ; but, with the experienced, this is not the case. It is really incredible what the steady and easy hand of a careful and experienced observer can undertake with the organs under con- sideration, and what the latter learn to undergo in comparatively a short time. This observation cannot be too frequently repeated; and experience has shown its value in laryngoscopy. At the commencement, rhinoscopic (as well as laryngoscopic) attempts which are undertaken on the living, are, as has been stated before, generally unsuccessful and discouraging. He who possesses neither discretion nor sufficient discernment to discover the chief reason of repeated failures that are due to his own awkwardness and inexperience, and who also does not possess sufficient energy and perseverance to acquire the necessary dexterity, will undoubtedly very soon lay aside his investigations, and, sooner than doubt his own ability, will declare rhinoscopy, as well as laryngoscopy, com- pletely worthless and impracticable. To set ourselves aright, we must commence by examining good drawings, and by experimenting on the dead; then only can we advance to the living—endeavouring to discover such individuals for our first experiments who are particularly suited for them by their possessing wide and insensible fauces.* A certain and harmless local anaesthetic for the fauces and soft palate would prove of great value in some difficult cases, even to the experienced, as rendering the examination easier—and would also materially aid the opening of the nasal valve (velum).