CEREBRAL SINUSES. 95 swelling of the neck subsided, and death took place on the 19th day. Sectio. The cranium and dura mater were uninjured. In the superior longitudinal sinus were found pus and polypous clots, extending as far as the lateral sinuses. Purulent meningitis. Brain in the neighbourhood of the left fissure of Sylvius converted into a dark-brown mass. Beneath the situation of the external injury, a cavity was found in the right hemisphere of the cerebrum, which contained about half an ounce of congealed blood; round about it the brain was in a state of yellow softening. In this case the cause of the thrombosis of the sinus is not quite clear. It may have been occasioned by the inflammation of the external wound and con- sequent meningitis, or it may have had its origin in the hsemorrhagic deposit resulting from the violence, or lastly, been caused by the evident destruction of a portion of the brain in the neighbourhood of the left fissure of Sylvius by contre-coup. The extensive lesions of the brain found in this case as the immediate consequence of ex- ternal violence, yet without injury of the bone, are worthy of remark. Case 25.1—A man, set. 54, suffered an injury of the occiput from the fall of a stone, which made a wound which suppurated slightly. Eight days later, rigors set in, accompanied by headache and other cerebral symptoms. Death occurred at the end of the third week, preceded by symptoms of pysemia and coma. In the longitudinal sinus and in both lateral sinuses were clots in a state of suppuration, while the walls of the sinuses were thickened. At the base of the skull there was a fracture, the exact situation of which is not mentioned. Considerable hypersemia of the brain. Also a large abscess beneath the pectoralis major muscle, and numerous abscesses in the liver. I11 this case, also, the thrombosis may either have proceeded from the point of fracture, or have been intimately connected with the suppurating wound at the back of the head. Case 26 2—In a man who had a cicatrizing scalp wound, rigors suddenly supervened; the edges of thewound assumed an erysipelatous character, the periosteum was seen to be detached from the bone, 1 Lebert, loc. citat. - Berard, ‘Bulletin de la Societe Anat./ x, 6; Lebert, loe. citat., 432.