LEFT HEMISPHERE OF THE BRAIN. 143 The difference between the muscles of the two sides of the body was very considerable, as appears from the following measurements by Professor Harting: Sound or left side. Atrophied or right side. Deltoid. Deltoid. Greatest breadth .... 98 mm. 82 mm. Primitive bundles . . . . 412 mmm. 282 mmm. Average diameter of 23 bundles. Average diameter of 22 bundles. Biceps. Biceps. Greatest breadth .... 245 mm. 20’5 mm. Primitive bundles .... 347 mmm. 285 mmm. Average diameter of 27 bundles. Average diameter of 23 bundles. Flexor carpi radialis. Flexor carpi radialis. Greatest breadth .... 23 mm. 13 mm. Primitive bundles .... 502 mmm. 303 mmm. Average diameter of 15 bundles. Average diameter of 14 bundles. This, calculated for 100, gives a proportion of the atrophied to the healthy muscles of 83'7 for the deltoid and biceps; for the flexor carpi radialis, on the contrary, the proportion is only 56’6. The thickness of the primitive bundles seems not to be the same in the different muscles; its diminution gives a per-centage thickness on the atrophied side for the deltoid of 68*4, for the biceps of 82, and for the flexor radialis of 60^4; whence it appears that the emaciation and atrophy was by far greatest in the flexor radialis, although the diminution in the bones of the forearm was much less than in the humerus, scapula, and clavicle. A comparison of the foregoing case with others of a similar nature to be found in the writings of some authors, particularly in works of more modern date, will show that such an atrophy of one half of the brain is a lesion of rather rare occurrence. Although Morgagni speaks of an obliquity of the skull,1 I have been unable to find a dis- tliis subject, and remarks upon the strange contrast between the thickening of the nerves on the paralysed side and the atrophy of the half of the medulla spi- nalis in some cases. But nowhere in Lallemand’s letters have I been able to find any further mention of the subject, nor any case containing an allusion to atrophy of one half of the spinal cord. Durand-Fardel gives a remarkable instance of softening of the brain, particularly of the right side, in which the medulla spinalis, especially in the dorsal region, was extremely softened and atrophied; the arachnoid also was very much thickened, but the atrophy seems to have existed on both sides. In consequence of the loss of his notes, the history of the case is very imperfect. (See Durand-Fardel, ‘ Traite du ramolliss. du Cerveau,* 1843, °bs. 83, pp. 297 et seq.) 1 ‘De causis et sed. morb./ epist. i, art. 14, and epist. Ixii, art. 15.