COLD IN SURGERY. 289 Tig. i. receptacles filled with ice, snow, or some freezing mixture. Preferable, for practical purposes, to all other contrivances, are ice-bags of vulcanized india rubber, and especially those which go under the name of American sponge-bags. Their form, as is shown in fig. i, is very nearly that of an old- fashioned work-bag, and they have a sufficiently wide opening to admit of their being filled with large pieces of ice. They are much preferable to animal bladders, which are never quite waterproof, and which, after a time, become offensive, because the part above the ligature, which is not exposed to the con- stant influence of the ice, soon putrefies. It is true that moisture from the atmosphere is precipitated on the outer surface of the india- rubber bag, so that it always appears wet, but a bit of lint is sufficient to protect the part from damp. The chief advantage which is derived from these india rubber bags is that heat is badly conducted through their walls. A too great abstraction of heat is therefore not to be feared, even in cases where the practitioner is not able to superintend the application of the remedy. The walls of an animal bladder conduct heat much better than an equally thick membrane of india rubber, and we must, in conse- quence, watch carefully over the application of ice-bladders. This I had the opportunity of remarking in a case which came under my care not long ago. A countryman had got, in consequence of a contusion, acute inflammation of the knee-joint. His surgeon, a very able and careful man, applied two pigs' bladders filled with ice, one on each side of the joint, giving instructions that they should be kept filled with ice as long as the patient felt benefit from them. The distance of the man's house prevented the surgeon from looking in upon him frequently. He did not, in fact, visit his patient again until, after the lapse of a considerable time, he was called in to see, to his great alarm, two large, discoloured, frostbitten patches, of the size of a child's hand, occupying the places where the ice-bladders had