70 LARYNGOSCOPE. cords, were all considerably swollen by an oedematous infiltration : all these parts wTere very pale, with the Tig. 2q. exception of the injected epiglottis, the right side of which was the seat of a vesicle filled with fluid. The glottis was reduced, by the junction of the infiltrated and immoveable inferior vocal cords, to a small roundish triangular space, which existed between the arytenoid processes. The superior vocal cords, as well as the Fig. 29. (Edema of the glottis. aryteno-epiglottic ligaments, although in- filtrated and swollen, counted as nothing in the constriction of the space reserved for the passage of air. We see, then, the image of a true oedema of the glottis. Laryngotomy was performed on the 29th of October by Pro- fessor Balassa. Great ease and comfort followed. An examination, made on the 23d of November, showed that the epiglottis was considerably reduced, the oedema had diminished, the superior vocal cords were moveable, and that the glottis had become enlarged into an oblong and triangular crack. I relate this case, because it affords a very good example of undoubted oedema of the glottis, and because the state of the larynx was determined before the operation. CONCLUSION. This memoir, and the writings of other investigators who have followed the path which I had pointed out, may perhaps justify the “too exaggerated” hopes (see note. Chap. I) which I formed at the commencement of my researches, and which I previously expressed on the 27th of March, 1858 ('Bibliography/ No. 1). Thus much is certain, that precision and accuracy of diagnosis, rendered very easy, will permit in many cases the employment of rational means of local treatment; that the pathology and treatment of laryngeal affections, and likewise of other diseases, where the principle of the laryngoscopic method can be applied, are on the point of making unexpected progress. The physicians who, by their position and their studies, are in more favorable circumstances than a mere “ theorist,” will per- haps be induced by these results to persevere in their researches in nil the various directions already indicated throughout this work.