123 CEREBRAL SINUSES. in tlie interior only, from its seat in the superior longitudinal sinus, and from the haemorrhages occurring simultaneously, this case may, with great probability, be assumed to be one of thrombosis from marasmus. Cases 52 and 53.—In the same author,1 two cases of Burnet's are mentioned, occurring in children; in one of which, the superior lon- gitudinal sinus, the left lateral sinus, and the superior cerebral veins were the seat of black, adherent coagula. In the gray and white substance were numerous small coagula, some as large as peas, in the neighbourhood of which the brain was found to be softened and of an orange colour. There were similar patches in the right corpus striatum and left thalamus opticus. I11 the other case, the superior longitudinal sinus and superior cerebral veins were filled with adhe- rent thrombi, while a number of small apoplectic clots were found in the substance of both hemispheres.2 The early age of the subjects, the situation of the thrombus, and the extensive haemorrhages, render it probable that both these cases of thrombosis also resulted from marasmus. Case 34.—Gintrac3 mentions a curious case of disease in a boy four years of age, who had suffered from birth from attacks of tran- sient suspension of voluntary motion, with impaired sensibility, but without loss of consciousness. Death resulted from pneumonia. The superior longitudinal sinus was found to be converted into a hard cord; its walls were thickened, of a yellow colour, and so tough that they creaked under the knife. The sinus contained a firm clot, and the veins opening into it were gorged with coagulated blood. The coagulum in the sinus and veins communicating with it was evidently of more recent origin than the thickening of its walls, which probably resulted from a previous affection (thrombosis ?) of the sinus itself. What connexion existed between it and the peculiar attacks cannot be determined. The more recent thrombosis might perhaps be assumed to have a. relation to the pneumonia. 1 Loc. citat., liv. 8, pi. 4, p. 3. Remak. 2 I, unfortunately, could not get access to the 4 Journ. Hebd.5 for April, 1830, from which these data are taken, and in which more minute details might per- haps be obtained. 3 ‘Recueil d’Observations,5 1830; and Andral ‘Clinique Med.,5 v, p. 277.