ON THE USE OE 312 sucli a degree tliat his chin was almost touching the sternum. The cervical portion of the vertebral column was surrounded by firm exudation, so that the much swollen region of the neck felt as hard as wood. The upper half of the cervical spine was bent forwards upon the lower at an obtuse angle, the spinous process of the fourth cervical vertebra being the most protruding part. The swollen portion of the neck was very tender to the touch, especially in the region of the third and fourth vertebrae, but the pain was most in- tense when the patient made any attempt to move his neck, under which effort the scaleni and the right sterno-mastoid muscle became very tense. Great pain was also felt in walking and when the head was pressed from above upon the vertebral column. There were no paralytic symptoms, but the patient was very much weakened, and presented altogether a most pitiful aspect. Under these circum- stances the prognosis seemed to be a very unfavorable one. An ice-bag was applied to the neck, and every fourth day an ar- tificial leech was put on. After this treatment had been persevered in for six weeks the tenderness had quite disappeared, and although the swelling had but partly subsided, the head could be straightened much more freely than before. The ice now became disagreeable to the patient, and was, in consequence, discontinued. To hasten the absorption of the still existing exudation, an issue was made in the region of the neck, and one grain of calomel daily given to the patient . The progress towards cure under this treatment was slow, but continuous. After the lapse of six months the patient was perfectly cured, and left the hospital with a completely moveable neck. Eor a similar case, which came some time afterwards under my care at a season when ice was not to be procured, I had the wTater- reservoir made which is represented (fig. 5), and used it for six weeks with the same good result as the ice in the previous case. I have also obtained equally good results from cold in numerous cases of inflammation and suppuration of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae. The best effects are, of course, obtained in recent cases, where Potffs curvature has not yet formed, and where, with the ex- ception of tenderness on pressure in the region of one or more spinous processes, and of excentric pains, and pain in jumping and strik- ing the head, there is nothing to indicate the existence of inflammation. But even in cases where there is already angular curvature—that is, where at least the body of one vertebra has been destroyed by sup-