PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 00 served its trilobular form. The middle triangular lobe projected especially below and behind by its actually sharp edge. I observed upon the right false vocal cord, always swollen, two patches of a yellowish colour, with sharp angles, and some twen- tieths of an inch long. The cough had diminished, but the hoarse- ness was persistent. Later, we were convinced that laryngotomy was indispensably necessary, in consequence of the progress of the ulcers of the larynx and of the great swelling of the vocal cords. The operation was performed with complete success by my respected colleague, Professor Balassa, on February 35th, 1859. I immediately took advantage of this fresh occasion to apply the laryngoscopic method from below, namely, through the fenestrated canula (see Fig. 14). It was hoped that this inspection would be more profitable than in the first case, as this was only a case of con- striction, and not of complete occlusion of the larynx; and the laryngoscopic examination subsequently proved the truth of this. I concentrated the light of the sun, by means of a small ophthal- moscopic mirror, upon an oval steel laryngoscope, placed in the fenestrated canula. There was no accidental reflection of light to interfere with the view, because the disc, which was fastened by a strap, was placed obliquely, and formed an obtuse angle with the incident rays; and because the internal surface of the canula was generally covered over with a thin layer of dried mucus. We may state that, under these circumstances, the light was truly brilliant, notwithstanding the diminutiveness in the size of the mirror; we could distinguish with surprising clearness the minutest peculiarities of the mucous membrane, in consequence of their proximity. A11 ordinary lamp was found to be equally sufficient for these researches. I have given in Figure 17, 1, a sketch of the interior of the larynx, examined a short time after the operation of laryngotomy. We examined the larynx through the open glottis, from below upwards. If we remember the situation of the laryngoscope (shown in Figure 14), we can understand why the superior part of the drawing cor- responds in reality to the posterior, and the inferior to the anterior; the lateral parts reciprocally correspond to the opposite sides. The Ventricles of Morgagni are not seen in this arrangement. There exists, between the free borders of the epiglottis and the right arytenoid cartilage, an opening, limited laterally, in the projected