103 CEREBRAL SINUSES-. cate other sources. In the case of the formation of clots resulting from the intrusion of foreign bodies and tumours, besides the stagnation of the blood dependent upon the narrowing of the channel, we must take into consideration the contact of the blood with a foreign body as favouring coagulation. Case 33.1—A man, set. 23, had had otorrhcea for twelve months. After some general uneasiness, repeated, tolerably well-marked rigors set in, followed by heat and sweating. Headache, nausea, and in- flammatory swelling of the salivary glands supervened, while the feverish attacks became less regular. There was great restlessness, with pain in the neighbourhood of the liver and swelling of that organ. Well-marked jaundice, diarrhoea, collapse, and death at the end of the fourth week. Sectio.—In the interior of the left petrous bone was found a large chole-steatoma, which had perforated the bone at two points on its posterior and anterior surface, and thus infringed directly upon the cranial cavity. The upper border of the petrous bone formed a mere bridge over the cavity in which the tumour lay. The brain at this point presented a grayish discoloration. At the anterior part of the bone the much thickened dura mater was perforated in a round hole, and the posterior part of the perforation corresponded to the bend of the lateral sinus, which was entirely obstructed posteriorly by old, partly colourless, breaking-down, adherent plugs, while anteriorly, towards the sinus jugularis, extended a blackish mass, partly puri- form, partly ichorous. Trom the jugular foramen onwards only an unconnected ragged mass could be traced; the portion of the jugular vein as far as the opening of the pharyngeal was completely destroyed, and pus poured out into the surrounding cellular tissue. Lower down, the jugular was again obstructed by a plug, which was soft and puriform in its upper part, but firmer below where it ex- tended into the subclavian. Old disease of the knee-joint. Blood for the most part imperfectly coagulated; hypersemia of the bronchi and lungs, and oedema of the latter. In the upper part of the right lung a dark-red deposit. Liver and spleen enlarged, the latter flaccid. Kidneys large and jaundiced. Hypersemia and ecchymoses of the mucous membrane of the intestines; enlargement of the solitary glands. 1 Virchow, ‘ Lessen Arcliiv/ 8, 375.