300 ON THE USE OF and was already half closed, the surrounding skin was neither red nor tender, nor was there either above or below a trace of inflamma- tory infiltration; the patient had scarcely any fever, and his general health and his appetite were very good. From this time cold affu- sions were made use of. By the sixth week the wound was nearly healed, the suppuration was very slight, and the patients aspect was that of a healthy man. I heard nothing further of the maids pro- gress, but I have no doubt that the wTound very soon entirely closed. Now, it is true that of gunshot injuries of the knee-joint those of the patella run the most favorable course, and in my paper on f Besectionen/ p. 130, I have myself communicated two cases in point, but they take, generally, a very long time to heal, and the patient's sufferings are frightful. What struck me most in the above-related case was, that during the continued treatment by ice the general health of the patient was so little affected. Among the wounded who were in this hospital on the 9th of December, that is, five days after the riot, there were two who at once caught my eye in consequence of their unhealthy aspect. I heard that they had first been taken into the IIotel-Dieu, and had there, during four days, been treated with warm cataplasms. One of them had a shot through the soft parts of the leg, without the bones being fractured. Perhaps the tibia had been touched by the ball. A severe phlegmo- nous inflammation spread over the whole leg up to the knee, and large incisions had to be made on the 12th of December, to let the pus out. I saw the patient again on the 18th of December, when the wound was secreting scanty, offensive matter. Pie showed all the symptoms of pyaemia, of which disease he died a few days after- wards. The second patient had a wound through the middle of the hand. Several bones of the carpus had been smashed to pieces, the hand was enormously swollen, the wound secreted bad pus, the patient had intense fever, and his appearance was such as to induce me to anticipate death from pyaemia. At once continuous cold affu- sions were applied, in consequence of which his condition improved rapidly. By the 12th of December the swelling was considerably decreased, and the wound looked much better. On the 6th of January the swelling had entirely disappeared, the wounds were gra- nulating favorably, and the general health was excellent. On the 17th of January the wounds were almost entirely closed. In the other large military hospital, the Yal-de-Grace, cold was also applied to the severe injuries, but much less energetically and