53 PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. Case 3.—Ulcers of hard and soft palate, with considerable loss of substance, involving nearly all the uvula. Hoarseness ; great swelling of the epiglottis, which is injected and ulcerated, with a mucous patch on its right side, giving it a trilobed form. Constriction of the larynx, dyspnoea, laryngotomy. Recovery, ivith restoration of the voice. Tor the following account I am indebted to the kindness of Dr. Ivoller. S. E—, aged eleven years, a native of Baja, in Hungary, had been affected, when a year old, with a red papular eruption about the genital organs, which was only cured at the end of three months. A disease of the eyes appeared at the age of three years, and has per- sisted almost constantly since that period. In the summer of 1858, this patient suffered, for some weeks, from an acute disease accom- panied by fever, during which the back of the nose was depressed inwards, and ulcers formed upon the hard and soft palate. At this stage, in the autumn, a very severe hoarseness was added to her disease. She presented herself for the first time for advice at the Hospital for Sick Children, at Pesth, on November 23d, 1858, and was attended during a certain time for an epiphora of the left eye, with inflammation of the lachrymal sac. When admitted, on January 14th, 1859, into the hospital, she presented, on the whole, the following symptoms :—feeble consti- tution \ cachectic aspect; weakness of the right eye; the back and root of the nose had sunk inwards ; between the left inferior eyelid and the nose is a resisting tumour, as large as a pea, on the surface of which are seen numerous openings, the size of heads of pins, out of which flows liquid pus of a wThitish colour; an ectropium of the left inferior eyelid, with the loss of nearly all the eyelashes ; at the middle of the hard palate are two suppurating ulcers, situated alongside of one another, as large as the head of a pin, and, where a probe penetrates above to the depth of an inch, giving the sensa- tion of a rough surface; considerable loss of substance in the soft palate, almost complete destruction of the uvula, with cicatricial contraction all round about; the posterior wall of the pharynx of a dirty yellow; bad odour; slight swelling of the glands at the side and nape of the neck; considerable hoarseness and noisy breathing. I had examined the patient on the eve of her entrance into the