100 THROMBOSIS OF THE Very considerable changes of the inner coat of the vessels, even— such as we see in far-advanced atheromatous ulceration and calcifi- cation in the arteries—by no means certainly cause coagulation of the blood within them; indeed, it may safely be assumed that all the individuals in whom the formation of clots occurs under these cir- cumstances live for a considerable time with such diseased arteries before coagulation of the blood takes place. Coagulation within the vessels, as a consequence of changes in their walls, is therefore far from occurring in every case, and when it happens it is fre- quently not until the changes have long existed. It might further be added, perhaps, that the influence of the dead coat of a vessel upon the blood, demonstrated by Brucke,1 would prevail also in the case of inflammation and disease of the venous coats. But if something of this kind may obtain, we must not forget that there is a great difference between the inflamed and the dead coat of a vessel, and that in Brucke's experiments the blood in the vessels and heart was at perfect rest, while we have to do with coagulation of the blood still in motion. If, therefore, we have the choice of another mode of explanation, based upon clearly recognised causes of coagulation, we cannot well do otherwise than give it the preference. As regards the formation of thrombi in the sinuses of the dura mater, sometimes met with after injuries of the head, Virchow2 has already pointed out that a primary thrombosis of the veins of the diploe probably occurs in many cases from contact of the blood with atmospheric air, and simultaneous interruption of continuity in the vessels (haemorrhagic thrombosis). From the peculiar nature of the veins of the diploe, and their close attachment to the unyielding bones, collapse of their walls is impossible. In cases of injury, there- fore, gaping venous apertures present themselves, into which a haemorrhagic thrombosis, formed externally to them, must readily ex- tend and, by further propagation, reach the sinus. In thrombosis of sinuses, the result of the caries of the bones of the skull, these peculiar conditions of the veins of the diploe appear to me also to play an important part. The necrosis of the individual layers of bone, resulting from the process of ulceration in the bone, must ne- cessarily diminish the supply of blood from the bone to the larger 1 Loc. citat. 2 ‘Ges. Abb. zur w. Med.,’ 619.