65 PATHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. Case 12.—Constant difficulty of breathing, supposed to depend upon some obstacle in the larynx; negative results afforded by the laryngoscope. B. S—, aged 40 years, has suffered for a long time from difficulty of breathing, constantly increasing, and at last consulted Professor Balassa, who sent her to me on the 30th of June, to be examined with the laryngoscope. In fact, the hissing respiration caused me to suppose the presence of an obstacle within the larynx, where the patient, according to her sensations, indicated the seat of her disease. I was very much surprised to find the larynx perfectly normal, the glottis widely open, and the trachea entirely free ! I regretted that I could not perceive the entrance of the bronchi, although my view extended quite close to the bifurcation. The obstacle, existing neither in the larynx nor in the trachea, ought to be found at the bifurcation, or rather in the bronchi. This case, in spite of its negative result, is extremely interesting, because it showed that the laryngoscope sometimes gives very correct counter-indications relative to the operation of tracheotomy, which, deceived by the symptoms, we might be induced to attempt. Case 13.—Transformation of the left superior vocal cord into a hard, rough, and ulcerated tumour, producing constriction of the glottis and dyspnoea. On the 7th of May, Professor Balassa sent me an old man, J. W—, who had suffered for some time from difficulty of breathing, and in whom the hoarse voice possessed a peculiar sound. The patient believed that his disease was caused by a singular growth, which he said he could perceive himself, when he opened the mouth very wide, and protruded the tongue. On examining the patient, I observed at the back of the mouth, behind the base of the tongue, a projecting body of a reddish colour, of the length of a third of an inch, and the width of about three quarters of an inch; but this was only the projecting epi- glottis. It was clear that this arrangement would render a laryn- goscopic examination very easy. It afforded the following results : The right half of the larynx was normal; on the left side, on 5