LARYNGOSCOPE. 20 absolutely the same image in the laryngeal mirror, because their visual axes clo not form the same angles with the reflecting surface of that mirror. This angle is more obtuse to the person who observes himself, than to the other by whom he is observed; the former will always see more of the parts situated behind, the latter those placed before. Thus, for example, in Tig. 8, the simple dots represent the rays proceeding from the trachea, and directed towards the central opening of the illuminating mirror to the eye of the stranger, after having been reflected upon the laryngeal mirror. The rays, on the other hand, indicated by a series of dots and lines (—.—.—.—.) come from the posterior part of the larynx, and reach the eye of the person who is examining himself, after undergoing a double reflec- tion, one upon the square mirror, and the other upon the laryngeal mirror. Nevertheless, there remains, most assuredly, numerous spots which the two observers can examine simultaneously. Other observers can place themselves either behind the indivi- dual who examines himself, and looking into the small square mirror, or at the side of the illuminating mirror, on approaching the eye to the border of this latter. By the aid of my apparatus, we can simultaneously show to a certain number of persons any part of the larynx whatever. It would not be impossible to project the image, vividly illumi- nated, upon a screen, and then we could give demonstrations before a numerous audience. A photographer whom I consulted thought it possible to fix the images that I demonstrated upon myself. The lighted chamber of Wheatstone placed behind the opening of the concave mirror permits us to take very exact sketches and measurements. I can recommend this autolaryngoscopic apparatus to whoever is desirous of making observations upon himself without the assistance of others, or to show to others the various parts of the larynx and the movements which they perform. Many persons will remember the clearness and beauty of the images which were obtained by the aid of this apparatus, whilst making demonstrations upon myself at Vienna, Pesth, Leipsic, Berlin, and Breslau.1 1 We might refer also to the numerous demonstrations made by Dr. Czermak at Paris and in London, in the hospitals and elsewhere.—Translator.