248 THE IMPORTANCE OE gins with a large wave, whose highest point is reached in the middle of series II, and whose lowest at the commencement of series IY; after which succeed smaller waves, which on an average have a dura- tion of from six to eight days, but are independent of the variations of temperature. With regard to the period of two days, I have always found it more or less distinctly in the case of urea, in all the series of inves- tigations that are at my command, in which the days upon which the observations are made follow one another without any inter- mission.1 Section XI.-— On the employment of Quadratics for the deter- mination of Mean Fluctuations. The construction of squares and square roots in the process for determining the Mean fluctuation, is even for adepts a somewhat tedious and troublesome operation. The task, however, may be con- siderably abridged by making use of a table of squares. That which is contained in the small table of logarithms, by August,2 is quite sufficient for the purpose. The method of using it is given in the explanations which are appended to the tables: nevertheless, instead of the rules given there for obtaining the squares and square roots of numbers which are not contained in the tables, I will here give some which are of a much simpler character. In the tables we have only the squares of numbers from .o up to 2.099, the first three figures of each number standing in the first column of each page, and the fourth figure being placed over the ten following columns. The squai^ of the number is found in the same horizontal line with that of its first three figures, and in that one of the ten columns over which the fourth figure is placed. It must be noted that the first two figures of the square, which are common to several spaces, will be found in the first column over which o is placed, and only the last three are to be sought for in the column over which the fourth figure of the given number is placed. Tor those last three figures, which are marked thus *, we must use, not the two first figures of the o column, which belong to the preceding numbers, 1 In consequence of want of space, the analysis of Moleschott’s paper, “ On the influence of warmth on the excretion of carbonic acid in frogs,” is unavoid- ably omitted.—Translator. 2 ‘Complete Trigonometric and Logarithmic Tables/ by August, 4th ed. Berlin, 1857,