ON THE USE OE 288 the fingers from the effects of cold, and their separation, one after the other, by gangrene. To appreciate the difference between the total immersion of a part and a more local application of cold, we need only with one hand take hold of a snowball or lump of ice and dip the other hand into cold water of about 41° F. (4° E.) We shall find that we are able to go on with the former experiment for a considerable time without inconvenience, whilst intense pain, running up the arm in the course of the nerves, will soon compel the withdrawal of the immersed hand out of the water. Tepid baths, from 77° to 94° F. (20 to 27° E.) act, therefore, in our opinion, in an antiphlogistic way, for the difference between the temperature of the body and that of the water is quite sufficient to effect a considerable abstraction of heat from the body. (Compare Langenbeck, Deutsche, Klinik/ 1855, p. 410.) However excellent in their effects continued baths and affusions are in the treatment of inflammatory processes, there are still some disadvantages connected with them which prevent them from being universally applied. In addition to abstraction of heat, we have here also to take into consideration the effects of moisture, which, certainly, are very often not desirable. Swelling up of the epidermis and imbibition by the edges of the wound, in consequence of their constant exposure to wet, are circumstances which may become injurious to the healing process. Further, the effects may extend too far into the neighbouring healthy parts, and there, by giving cold, produce rheumatic pains, which soon become intolerable to the patient. Then, lastly, these two methods are not equally available for all parts. In the absence of more elaborate contrivances, they can only be applied to the hand and arm as far as the upper third of the humerus, and to the foot and leg not higher up than the knee-joint. Besides, in both methods, in affusion and in immersion, the parts concerned have to be placed in a some- what sloping posture, and hence one loses the advantage of the high position, which I consider of great importance in the treatment of injuries of the extremities. By using india-rubber rings this dis- advantage may be in some cases avoided, but I doubt whether the still greater disadvantage of the circular compression which would thus be produced could be avoided with equal success. We attain our object of abstracting heat continuously from an inflamed part in a far more secure way, and without injurious secondary effects, by applying dry cold, by means of waterproof