COLD IN SURGERY. 321 the wounds were cicatrized; those which were not secreted but little pus. The eye, on which an ice-bag was still kept, was somewhat red, the anterior chamber was clearer, the opening in the cornea nearly closed. A roundish excavation, filled with yellow exudation, was now found in the sclerotic, at the lower margin of the cornea; a shot had probably entered there also. The circumference of the globe was reduced to about half its normal size. On the 39th of November the ice became disagreeable to the patient, and a lead-lotion was used in its stead. The inflammation of the con- junctiva had almost entirely disappeared, and the small wounds were cicatrized. The globe wTas still very soft, the anterior chamber was clear, but its size was diminished in consequence of the iris having been drawn towards the cornea. Through the pupil the lens was seen, of a snow-white colour. After the irritation of the con- junctiva had been completely subdued the patient left the hospital. Although some shot had certainly lodged in the eye, or gone through it, no suppurative ophthalmia had been developed, and the eye had caused but little pain to the patient. Whoever has witnessed the terrible and long-continued suffering which attends suppuration of an injured eye when the case is treated by cataplasms will, I am sure, appreciate how favorable a course this case took under the treatment by ice. When, after eye-operations, inflammation sets in and threatens to neutralize their good effects, I make use of cold with the best results. When, after extraction, drilling, or depression of a gray cataract, the part gets more painful than it should normally after operations, I am in the habit of applying an ice-bag to the eye, of the form represented in %. 7. In most cases the pain disappears rapidly under this treatment, so that bleeding, which remedy I used to employ early, becomes unnecessary. The reason why eye-doctors are generally so much afraid to use cold is that most of them are acquainted with its effects only as shown in the application of cold compresses. Frequently