MORTIFICATION. 132 atmospheric influence ; but Avhen removed from tliis, as in sloughing of the areolar tissue, or of fascia, and in necrosis—tlie integuments re- maining yet entire—tlie dead portions may retain their normal character but little changed. In chronic gangrene, the dead part, instead of being moist and soft, becomes dry and hard ; the fluids passing away. Wlien a part dies to a limited extent—as a portion of skin, areolar tissue, artery, or tendon—the sphacelated part is termed a Sloufjh ; and the process of death, Sloughing. Sphacelus being complete, and gangrene not extending, Nature instantly adopts means whereby she may free herself from a part whicli is of no further use, and whose continued presence may prove seriously injurious. Its recovery is impossible ; and if it be allowed to remain in close contact with the living textures, these cannot fail to absorb more or less of the noxious results of putrescence, both gaseous and fluid; whereby a poisonous effect Avill be produced on the system, already brought low by constitutional disorder atten- dant on the gangrene. The Hving part, in immediate contact with the dead, inflames; and, in consequence, the abrupt livid line is bordered by a diffuse, red, and joainful swel- ling—the line of demarcation. This vesi- cates ; the vesicle bursts ; puriform matter is discharged ; and an ulcerating surface is disclosed—the line of sejKtration. The fur- row, so begun, gradually deepens; at first advancing with considerable rapidity, through the sMn and areolar tissue ; but receiv- ^^/f -''''^ ing a check, when fascia, tendon, or other ^M^^^ fibrous texture is reached. The advance is ^^^^^ seldom perpendicular, but in a sloping direc- Mj^Mr tion ; and the inclination is usually towards, . J J 31: and, as it were, beneath the dead part; gan- grene generally being most extensive superficially. In time, even the most resisting of the soft textures are got through by ulceration, nothing but bone remaining imdivided. No hemorrhage occm'S during this gradual division of the parts ; for the inflammatory process has passed leisurely through its ordinary grades ; plastic formation precedes the suppuration and ulceration, protecting the otherwise loose tissues from diffuse suppu- ration, and sealing up the otherwise open orifices of arteries and veins. Nature's amputation, so conducted, is unfortunately a reverse of the surgeon's operation ; producing a stump which is conical, and otlicrwise but ill-fashioned for useful purposes. Wo are, therefore, called upon to interfere in most cases ; modifying the arrangement, and secui'iug division of the bone at a higher point. We have been hitherto supposing that gangrene has involved the whole thickness of the limb ; the line of separation forming on the car- Fig. 34. Complete sphacelus of foot and ankle. Detaclunent all but complete. The sloping line of separation well shewn ; studded with gi-anulations.