379 AFFECTIONS OF BUHS.^. in addition to its ordinary signs, great irritability of the stomach is often both prominent and distressing. The swelling, pain, and discharge, will be proportionally great. Yet something like resolution may be effected ; all may become quiet, and the joint may recover not only its form, but almost its pristine motion. Or it stiffens, by anchylosis ; perhaps irre- mediably ; change of structure having gone so far as to leave no hope of cure, unless by copious new formation from the exposed bone. Or hectic becomes paramount, ere yet destruction of texture has ceased in the joint; and then, to save life, we must sacrifice the limb. AEFECTIONS OF BUES^. Bursse are lined by a delicate membrane ; closely resembling, both in health and in disease, the synovial investiture of joints. The majority are of original and normal formation, usually lying be- tween the skin and some bony prominence ; a few are adventi- tious, the result of unwonted pressure, much or habitually applied. Some are closely connected with the more important joints, being in truth accessory to these ; others have no such relation, and are altogether insulated. The affections of the latter are comparatively trivial, as regards the ultimate result. Acute inflammatory affection of the former, on the contrary, is always to be regarded with suspicion, and treated with much anxiety and care. As samples of subcutaneous bursee, may be mentioned those which enlarge over the knee, in housemaids and shopkeepers ; over the inser- tion of the tendon of the patella, in carpenters •. on the elbow, in miners; on the backs of porters and foot-soldiers ; on the acromion of those who sustain weight there ; on the chin or sternum, in joiners who rest their centre-bits on these parts ; on the salient points of club-feet j on the hump of hunchbacks ; and on the outer malleoli of tailors. Bursitis. This may be either acute or chronic. The Acute form is usually the result of external violence, of exposure to cold, or of both these causes. The symptoms and results resemble those of synovitis. There is enlarge- ment of the bursal cavity, by distension ; the secreted fluid being at first serous, then sero-purulent, and ultimately purulent, according to the progress of the inflammatory process. Sometimes the fluid is mixed with blood. The tumour is distinctly fluctuating, and very painful to the touch. There is acute oedema of the superimposed and surrounding tissue ; the skin is red and tender; and, not unfrequently, this superficial affection assumes the erysipelatous character, especially when the result of a punctured wound. The lining membrane becomes successively con- gested,^ turgid, infiltrated, increased in vascularity, and coated by plastic formation; ultimately it ulcerates, the contents escaping towards the surface. Treatment consists, in the first instance, of ordinary antiphlogistic