326 ENCHONDllOMA. Encliondroma. This is a cartilaginous growth, connected with hone, chiefly occurring in the young and middle aged, and usually attributahle to external injury. The form is spheroidal; the size sometimes equals, hut seldom exceeds, that of an orange. The tumour here figured (Fig. 137) is of unusual size ; it weighed fourteen pounds. The nature of the tumour is strictly benign; and there is little ten- dency to degeneration, even when, after many years' duration, ulceration of the investing integument may have occurred. In the case already alluded to, growth had been long continued, the size was very great, and ulceration of the surface was extensive. Eepeated hemorrhages, too, had occurred; and the patient looked cachectic. Nevertheless, section of the structure shewed nothing but purest enchondroma. At the same time, cases, though few, are on record, in which degeneracy seems to have begun ; the interior of the tumour softening and breaking doAvn, not by inflammatory but by malignant change ; the surface then ulcerating, and discharging foetid sanies from the centre. All parts of the skeleton are liable to the formation; but it is most frequently found in the metacarpal bones and phalanges of the fingers. The articulating cartilages are not involved, but form the limits of the growth in that direction ; and adjacent tumours have no tendency to coalesce, but rather remain distinct. Occasionally, several tumours are simultaneously developed. The structure consists of two parts ; a fibro-membranous interlace- ment, forming cells of different sizes, some equal to that of a pea, within which is con- j, tained the cartilaginous matter. The general appearance of the section's structure is strik- ingly conglomerate ; and, in consequence, slight inequalities are usually imparted to the surface of the tumour. There are two varieties. 1. The adven- titious growth is developed in the interior of the bone. The formation gradually takes place in the cancellous texture ; and the ex- ternal portion, or shell, proportionally dilates. This outer shell, though attenuated by dis- tension, yet receives addition of new osseous Fig. 137. matter from time to time; and long retains its continuity. Ultimately, it becomes very thin, and in some places membranous ; still the tumour retains its smoothness and spheroidal shape. This variety, then, is invested by both bone and periosteum; and it is that which most frequently occurs. 2. The second variety—much less common—is formed on the ex- terior of the bone ; and is covered only by the periosteum and other soft parts. It is generally met with in the flat bones; cranium, pelvis, and Fig. 137. The large enchondroma referred to. At a, a section made to shew structure. At h, the ulcerated surface, whence the bleeding came. Amputation vsa performed at the wi'ist, successfully.