170 CUTANEOUS CYSTS. of tlie inflammatory attack, an open condition may be produced, and a state of foul ulcer presented. And, under the circumstances last men- tioned, degeneration into medullary formtition, or cancerous ulcer, is not impossible; more especially if the patient be advanced in years, and if the inflammatory accidents have been of repeated occurrence. Some- times, after the open condition has been attained, all inflammatory change ceases; and yet the part does not heal in the ordinary way ; but, exerting an extraordinary cuticular function, it commences a horny growth, which, if unopposed, may attain to large dimensions. Such horns, several inches in length, and bulky in proportion, have been cut from the forehead, and from various parts of the scalp. Sometimes cal- careous matter, even in considerable abundance, is found in the substance of the cyst itself, and in its interior. The contents of the thin cutaneous cysts which occur in the eyehds are usually colourless and glairy. Not unfrequently, they contain hairs, of much delicacy, like stunted eyelashes ; without bulbs, and more fre- quently unattached than adlierent to the sac. Ovarian cysts have been found to contain not only hair, but sldn, teeth, and bones—as if the aborted development of another creature. Treatment.—The superficial encysted tumours of the scalp, and face, are those with which the surgeon is most frequently called to deal. If recent and small, with the vestige of an obstructed orifice still visible, they may be got rid of by expression. With the point of a pin or probe, the aperture is re-established ; and through this, long strings of sebaceous matter may be squeezed out, by gradual pressure of the finger and thumb, until the cyst is emptied. The pressure may require repetition ; the cyst contracts ; the aperture remains pervious ; and the normal condi- tion is restored. In the great majority of cases, however, there is no vestige of open- ing, the contents have ceased to be of a sebaceous character, and this method of treatment is inapplicable. If the size be not great, and if the part have not been irritated by accident or design, the method of incision and evulsion is to be preferred; a method applicable to the great majority of such tumours of the scalp. The tumour is transfixed and bisected, by a scalpel or bistoury. The contents are extruded, so as to disclose the cyst; and this, having been firmly laid hold of by well-pointed cHssect- ing forcejDS, at its cut edge, is lifted out of its place, unbroken. If any adhesion prove stronger than was expected, it is to be touched by the edge of the knife. It is seldom that any vessels demand ligature. After oozing has ceased, the integuments are carefully replaced and adjusted; and the treatment is conducted so as to favour adhesion. When the tumour is large, redundancy of integument would result from the employment of this method; favouring suppuration, profuse and tedious. In such cases, therefore, excision is expedient. By two elliptical incisions, a sufficient amoiint of skin is taken away; as in tlie removal of a solid formation. And then dissection is jiroceeded with regularly ; great care being taken that the knife do not puncture the cyst; otherwise, by escape of the contents, the tumour would collapse, and completion of the operation bo much impeded. Also, in consequence of such misadventure, we might not be certain of having removed the