118 THE INDOLENT SORE. spontaneous origin. Sometimes reaiiplication of the blister, from time to time, may be required, to pre-^ent the return of the sore to the callous condition. Second.—By continued pressure the surrounding elevation is undone, and the varnished surface of the sore changed into a granulating one. The first part of the manipulations is to support the whole limb, below the ulcerated point, by moderate and uniform bandaging. If this be neglected, congestion must take place; and more serious consequences are not unlikely to follow. Then a strip of common adhesive plaster, about one inch in breadth, is applied with tolerable tightness over the lower part of the sore; crossing the ends over this, the centre of the strip having been applied to the opposite part of the limb. Plaster after plaster is thus adjusted, until we have invested not only the whole ulcerated surface, but also a little of the unbroken skin both below and above. And when the sore is large and its dis- charge profuse, a slit may be made in each strap, where it crosses over the ulcer, in order to prevent purulent accumula- tion. The bandaging, Avhich had stopped to permit applica- tion of the plaster, is then continued ; covering the whole limb, from the very distal ex- tremity, to about a handbreadth above the seat of ulcer. The limb is then placed in an ele- vated position; and, for some hours, the recumbent posture is strictly maintained- A feel- ing of constriction, sometimes amounting to actual pain, is usually complained of, but seldom lasts long ; and stm more rarely does it, by persistence, render an undoing of the dressiug necessary. It is met by rest, and elevation of the part; or should these fail, affusion of cold water will suffice to restore comfort. After two days—not earlier, unless symptoms of over-stimulation have manifested themselves—the bandage is undone. A grooved director is insinuated beneath the plaster, at the point opposite to the ulcer; and on this the strap is cut. The dressing is then gently removed; and, according to the change which has been effected in the sore, is the same dressing repeated, or another substituted more suited to the characters which the sore now presents. Often, after but two dressings by strap, the ulcer is found to have assumed the characters of the healing sore. Ey the pressure on the callous margins, absorption is instituted there —partly interstitial, partly continuous; and thus they are gradually brought down from their undue exaltation of level. By the same agent, acting on the villous surface, this is stimulated to granulation. For pressure which causes absorption in the brawny integument surrounding the sore, stimulates the siu'face to the induction of an inflammatory pro- Fig. 29. Strapping of the indolent ulcer shewn.