TREATMENT OF PERIOSTITIS, 274 turning and pressing its edge, so as to divide the tense membrane wholly to the desired extent; cautiously withdrawing the instrument, so as to make a valvular, oblique, and subinteguniontal wound; and finally closing the single integumental puiir-tui'e immediately, Avith isinglass plaster, or collodion—we obtain diilusion of the swelling, relieve tension, and so facilitate both resolution of the process and discussion of its results. This manoeuvre, however, requires skill and caution in its performance; and even with these is not wholly devoid of risk. It is therefore not to be indiscriminately employed, but should be reserved for those cases which otherwise prove obstinate, and in which aggravation and suppuration seem imminent. Whenever matter has formed, acutely, beneath the periosteum, direct incision cannot be too early had recourse to. The part is to be treated as in ordinary acute abscess. By no other procedure can the mischief threatened to the bone be either limited or averted. If the woimd be early, only simple denudation of the greater portion of the exposed bone will have taken place ; on evacuation of the abscess, the swelling quickly subsides, its cause having been removed; reparative effort then com- mences, and advances harmoniously with granulation; and hard and soft j)arts cicatrize together. If incision be delayed, the abscess extends, and from the interference with the nutrition of the bone due to the ex- tensive stripping uj) of the periosteum, necrosis m.ay take place to a greater extent than would in all probability otherwise have occurred. After opening such abscesses, especially when extensive, care should be taken to prevent or arrest the progress of copious venous or capillary hemorrhage, which in an enfeebled patient is apt to occur from the abscess-sac, and might prove fatal. In all such cases, after evacuating the matter, antiphlogistics are usually inappropriate; tonics and stimulants being rather required. In chronic periostitis we begin with leeching; but in a gentler way than in the acute form ; not so much vsdth the view of arresting or • resolving disease thereby, as in order to pave the way for its more appro- • priate remedy—counter-irritation. A few leeches suffice; followed by • fomentation; accompanied by rest, attention to posture, and a careful 1 diet. Blisters then follow in succession; or perhaps varied with the? application of a strong solution of iodine—sometimes vesicating—and I accompanied by the internal administration of the iodide of potassium, in » full doses. By this medicine, rest, and counter-irritation, the greater i number of cases will be satisfactorily subdued. Sometimes, on account ♦ of pecuhar obstinacy, more potent counter-irritation may be expedient; the hot iron may be applied cautiously over the part. Cod-liver oil, as already stated, is an excellent remedy in chronic affections suspected to be of scrofulous connection, and is well combined with iron—more especially the sjTup of the iodide. In syphilitic and mercurial cases, the iodide of potassium has a wondrously remedial power ; in large and sustained doses. Occasionally pain continues severe, more especially at night, not- withstanding perseverance in such treatment; and in these circumstances it may become advisable to feel our way with mercury, even althougli the case be one in which previous mercurialism is lield to be the cause oi