ULCERS OF THE LIPS. 769 order, external injury, or direct application of an irritant cause. The prolabium is the part most frequently involved. Treatment is begim by removal of the cause, when that is apparent; avoiding atmospheric exposure, subduing excitement caused by external injury, removing sources of irritation from the gums, discontinuing the habitual use of a short pipe, correcting the digestive organs, etc. Then applications are made to the sore, according as its appearance may seem to require; and nitrate of silver, either in substance or in solution, is foimd to be the application most generally useful—the ulcer usually partaking more or less of the irritable character. Throughout the treat- ment, it is of great importance to secure rest of the part as much as possible. In the child of strumous habits, ulceration of the prolabium and lining of the upper lip, near its centre, is very apt to occur, with much swelling of the part; and in such cases the binding of a riband ightly over the lip is found to be very beneficial—securing comparative est of the part, and promoting discussion of the swelling by pressure. Indurated chancres are occasionally met with in this situation, ,d may by a careless practitioner be mistaken for epithelial cancer; ut the age of the patient, the multiple submaxillary indolent glandular nlargement, the history of the case, and the appearance of eruption, 1 generally suffice to indicate the true nature of this previously in- ractable ulcer. Malignard Ulcers of the lips are by no means rare; but are peculiar p the advanced in years, as cancer usually is ; and the lower lip is much .ore frequently affected than the upper. The disease may commence •y carcinomatous formation of a warty character, or in a fissure, which its treatment, becomes an ulcer, and is preceded by an extension of .6 hard margin which characterizes the limits of the disease. A mmon inducing cause is the habit of smoking with a short clay pipe; Hch, saturated with the essential oil of tobacco, becomes hot, and thus ritates the prolabium—daily, or many times a day. The only remedy T the cancerous affection is by free and early removal of the diseased ; while the ulceration is yet limited, and no involvement of the lym ■ atics is apparent. For superficial, suspicious sores, affecting the mere 'olabium, escharotics may sufiice; nitric acid, nitrate of mercury, .oride of zinc, or potassa fusa—freely applied. But when other tex- ■es are involved, the knife alone is worthy of confidence. When the affection is mainly on the prolabial surface of the lip, the .ole may be taken away, and yet with very little deformity. By two iptical incisions, the diseased portion is included; the knife being tered in the middle of the prolabial space, and made to pass first on e integinnental, and then on the mucous aspect of the disease. The rbid structure, thus marked, is carefully dissected out j and then the egmnent and mucous membrane are brought together by points of errupted suture. When the disease is more superficially extensive, it is possible both remove the diseased part satisfactorily, and to prevent any great onnity; the margin of the lip including the disease being cut away a horizontal iucision through the whole thickness of the lip, by means curved scissors. When again the disease extends less along' the lip 3 D