HECTIC. 33 charged ; or in the interior of a part, and accumulate there. In the latter case, the immediate effect of suppuration varies according to the nature of the part. If loose and extensile, as is ordinary areolar tissue, the pain and throbbing often cease, or at all events diminish ; and the swelling becomes paler, soft, and fluctuating. If, on the con- trary, the texture be dense and unyielding, like the osseous and fibrous, the inflauuuatory process, mth its indications of tension, redness, heat, and pain, is much aggravated. The result also depends on the preceding character of the inflam- matory process. If this have leisurely advanced through its successive stages, in a healthy constitution, the pus is enclosed by the barrier of texture in which the inflammatory product has been of the plastic kind, preventing diffusion of the fluid into the surrounding parts—as in ordi- nary abscess. But if a rapid transition have been made from the origin to the acme of the inflammatory process, and that in an unhealthy subject, no fibrinous limitation is interposed ; the product is all aplastic ; and the pus is found infiltrated diffusedly throughout the tissues, accompanied by destructive softening and breaking up of textui-e—as in phlegmonous erysipelas. We have just seen that, on the occurrence of suppuration, the local inflammatory symptoms sometimes subside, sometimes become aggravated. A change also usually takes place in those of the general disorder, or in- flammatory fever. Its first appearance was attended by a rigor; and the same phenomenon usually indicates the approaching change. Usually, the rigor is followed by a marked remission of all the febrile symptoms ; which either continues imtil resolution is complete, or is superseded by the accession of febrile action of another type—the Hectic Fever. And this is sure to occur, when the suppuration comes from an extensive sur- face, is profuse and long-continued, more especially if occurring in an internal organ important in the economy; or when the patient is of an already debihtated frame. Hectic fever is distinguished by its frequent remissions and exacer- bations, usually periodical, and occurring once, or sometimes twice, in the twenty-four hours; by the sweating which follows the remis- sion of its paroxysms, accompanied by great exhaustion and emacia- tion ; and also by frequent recurrence and long continuance of the febrile state, without that acutely marked disorder of the assimilative or nervous functions, which accompanies continued fever of similar duration. Hectic fever is invariably connected with some severe organic dis- turbance, or change of structure ; and is the form of constitutional affec- tion which most constantly accompanies profuse suppuration, especially in an important internal organ. It is under such conditions also, that it assumes its most characteristic aspect; and has the most distinctly ■periodic exacerbations and remissions. When it is fully foi-med in the course of such local affection, the patient has usually at least one daily paroxysm or febrile exacerbation ; often preceded by chilliness, if not by shivering; and attended by great heat of skin, flushing of the foce, and burning sensations in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. The pulse is frequent, but irregularly so ; and usually subject to quick 1)