MORTIFICATION. 134 plectic death." When but little of Bthenic indication has preceded the gangrene, as in constitutions previously much weakened, or in the case of poisoned wounds inducing rapid death of the part, the delirium continues of the passive kind. The sphincters relax, and the excretions are passed involuntarily. The patient fumbles with and piclcs at the bedclothes. More and more marked are " the death-like colcbiess, the clammy sweat, the small, indistinct, and flickering pulse, and the cadaverous expression. In this state a patient will sometimes lie totally insensible, and un- able to articulate or swallow, for eighteen or twenty-four hours, and die without a groan or struggle." Such is the character of that general disorder which attends on gan- grene. Death of the part is a direct shock to the frame, previously the seat of febrile disturbance ; and this depression is doubtless aggravated, by subsequent absorption of noxious matter from the moist and crepita- ting mass. The symj)toms are found to vary, as is to be expected, according to the previous condition of the patient, the extent of the gan- grene, and the importance of the part in which it has occurred. When the vital powers have been previously low; when the mortified part is vast; when an internal organ has perished, even in a patch or speck only —the constitutional symptoms are invariably grave, and point to a fatal issue. As certaia tissues are found endowed with a faculty of resisting ulceration, so some are less prone than others to gangrene; for example, the nervous and arterial In acute hospital gangrene, arteries are found beating in the dark and putrid mass; alive, while all is dead around them; but at length they also yield, and death is hurried on by haemor- rhage. Other tissues, again, are especially prone to mortify; as, for example, the cutaneous and areolar. And this obviously explains the sloping forni which the Hne of separation generally assumes, when gangrene has invaded the entire tliickness of a limb. AVhen mortification occurs in an internal part, many of the ordinary signs are of course absent; and yet the symptoms are plain enough. We have not before us the blackness, nor the coldness, nor the crepitation; but we have sudden cessation of pain, previously most severe ; failure of the pulse, and prostration of the strength; clammy sweat, collapsing features, and hiccup. These having occurred, we may confidently look for the other constitutional symptoms of gangrene, above enumerated. In short, it is important for the practitioner to bear in mind, in the management of acute internal disease—as, for instance, in the case of strangulated hernia—that the combination of hiccup and marked prostra- tion, with sudden cessation of pain, plainly tells him of gangrene having occurred in the part inflamed; and that he is to frame his prognosis accordingly. The ordinary division of mortification is into Acute and Chronic; Acute comprehending the humid, inflammatory, and traumatic ; Chronic —the dry and idiopathic. Generally speaking, the acute is humid, and the chronic dry : the fluids being retained in the one case, and parted with gradually in the other. But this is not invariably the case.