AFFECTIONS OF THE CRANIUM. G45 + Boyer, (Euvi-ea Cliirarg., torn. iv. Velpeau, Diet, de Medecine, torn. x. the bone itself—does not render the occurrence of exfoliation inevitable. The part may, and frequently does, recover. And the treatment, in the first instance, is to be conducted with a view to such a result; the flap of integument being carefully replaced, the wound approximated, and speedy healing sought for. Exostod^^ of the cranium is not uncommon ; of a dense, ivory charac- ter ; and usually of small size. Fortunately the site of growth is on the external aspect of the bone. No treatment is required. The affection is a mere deformity; and not even that, unless apparent from want of covering by hair. Spiculated exostosis sometimes grows from the interior of the calva- rium ; inducing intense neuralgia, or epilepsy. As already stated, there are some few cases so plainly marked as to admit of the offending body being removed by the trephine. Tumours of the calvarium—osteosarcoma and osteocephaloma—are rare; more especially the true osteosarcoma. When they do form, no treatment save mere palliation is advisable. The site and connections of the affected part forbid operative interference; unless, indeed, the tumour is of small size, has originated externally, is unaccompanied by similar formations elsewhere, and could be included in the crown of a trepliine. Poll/IMS of the frontal sinus is a rare affection; and, in its first stages, of difficult diagnosis. When it exists, a similar condition will often be found, usually to a greater extent, in the other sinuses communicating ^vith the nasal cavity; a fact well worthy of remembrance, as an assis- tance in diagnosis. Wlien detected, cure may be obtained by removing the bone to such an extent as will permit evulsion of the growth, with 1 subsequent cauterization of its site.* Tumours of the dura mater involve the cranium secondarily. They are soft, fungating, and usually medullary. The original symptoms are necessarily obscure; but, after a time, the bone having yielded to absorp- tion, the tumour manifests itself externally, and follows the ordinary I course. Treatment is but palliative."]" * Brit, and For. Med, Eev., Jan. 1846, p. 186.