CHAPTER LXVI. AFFECTIONS OF THE JOINTS OF THE LOWER EXTEEMITY. Morbus Coxarius. The hip-joint is Liable to the common diseases of articulations ; but, from its position, the exciting causes of synovitis affect it but little, compara- tively. It is a common seat of chronic rheumatic arthritis, attended witli porcellanous formation, interstitial absorption, adventitious product, and other chronic structural changes. It is sometimes affected by neuralgia, also; and then is constituted the true Coxalgia—a term -which, like its analogue Omalgia, has been improperly applied to structural change. But the most important as well as the most common aifection to which this joint is liable, is chronic disorganization of the acetabulum and head of the femur; to which the term Morbus Coxarius is applied. There is reason to believe that the morbid changes usually observe the following sequence. An ostitic change takes place in the cancellated tissue of the acetabulum and of the head and neck of the femur. This may be of a tubercular, or inflammatory kind. After a time, a chronic inflammatory process is kindled ; and suppuration and disintegration ensue, affecting chiefly that part which is immediately beneath the arti- culating cartilage. The cartilage is then involved ; partly by ulcerative erosion, partly by necrosis of patches. Matter is effused into the synovial capsule; and acute disintegration of the articulation is established. The cartilage perishes more and more ; the head of the bone crumbles down; the joint fills with pus, and is converted into the condition of abscess; the matter makes its way, more or less rapidly, and at one or more points, through the restraining textures ; corresponding pointing takes place, followed by evacuation; and then either the work of disin- tegration may advance with a fresh and fatal energy, or a lull may be experienced, and anchylosis may ensue. Such we believe to be the ordi- nary course. By some the disease is supposed to commence rather in the head of the jfemur than in the acetabulum. A more rapid and acute destruction of the joint may follow the inflammatory process primarily affecting the synovial apparatus. But the term morbus coxarius is, in strict accuracy, limited to the chronic and gradually nascent affection, which commences in the hard textures. The disease is conveniently divided into two stages. The first, the period which is occupied in the incipient change of structure; with- out such loss of substance as to cause change of form, and with the synovial capsule yet entire ; denoted by apparent elongation of the limb. The second, corresponding to loss of substance, change of form, and dc-