CHAPTER XXXIL DISEASES OF THE SCALP AND CEANIUM. Erysipelas of the Scalp. rms disecose may be idiopathic ; and then it is usually of a mild charac- ,er, so far as intensity of the local affection, and its effect on texture, are oncerned. It is very apt, however, to supervene on wounds; more ispecially if the textures have been much bruised, the parts rendered ,ense, and the inflammatory products prevented from escaping, whether )y an improper use of sutures, or by the form of injury originally in- licted. Such untoward accession to scalp wounds is also much favoured )y ungenial conditions of the atmosphere at certain seasons ; as well as )y previous derangement of the primse vi£e, or habits of intemperance on 16 part of the patient. If the phlegmonous form occur, danger to tex- ure is great; by diffuse infiltration both above and beneath the tendi- loua expansion of the occipito-frontalis ; and the constitutional symp- oms are proportionally urgent. The chief peculiarities of erysipelas of the scalp, in a practical point f view, may be considered to be ;—the unfavourable nature of the parts or suitable treatment of the milder examples, on account of the presence f hair; the unfavourable nature of the parts, on account of the presence f a large amount of tendinous expansion, for safe progress of the more rave forms of the disease ; the consequent frequency of sloughing of the reolar tissue of the scalp, along with the occipito-frontalis muscle and ericranium ; and the dangerous propinquity of the affected part to an rgan of the greatest importance, which is ever liable to suffer. When occurs, it may usually be traced to an extension of the inflammatory •Tocess along the sinuses of the diploe to the intracranial vessels, and 'om them to the membranes of the brain ; attended with the formation f more or less serous and fibrinous product, and even advancing to ppuration within the cranium. This untoward result, too, may de- elope itself, when convalescence is apparently already established. Treatment.—When erysipelas threatens to seize upon the scalp, either ■tly or by extension from the face, it is our first duty to have clean 'rasion of the hair effected, so that the necessary measures may be fully our power when the accession does occur. In the case of extension oro. the face, the disease is usually of the simple character and limited the skin. For cure, hot fomentations, with or mthout punctures, lally suffice, in addition to the ordinary constitutional management, old, or other repellents, must never be employed ; they may be grate- u to the sensations of the patient, at the time ; but the risk by meta-