159 CLASSIFICATION OF TUMOURS. to attack the tumour itself; otherwiso its morbid nutrition is excited, and the result is the opposite of that which we desire. AH tumours sympathise with excitement of the general system, and have their nutritive action proportionally augmented; as during febrile accessions, sustained violent exercise, mental emotion, and occurrence of the menstrual period. From what has been said, it follows, that long delay in actively treat- ing a true tumour—that is, by extirpation—is seldom expedient. Unless it be of the simplest kind, it cannot be removed by absorption; mean- while it is, though perhaps slowly, steadily enlarging, acquiring deeper and more important relations, and forming new and more intimate con- nections ; besides, it is every day Hable to have commenced in it the process of transition into a structure and tendency of a more sinister kind. If the system be in evident disorder, if the part be in a state ot temporary and accidental excitement, or if the bulk be great and not wholly dependent on the tumour—delay is advisable, until correction have been made so far as circumstances will permit. But this having been achieved, means suitable for efficient removal cannot be too soon adopted. Spontaneous cure sometimes occurs. 1. By absorption. We have already seen in what cases this mode of disappearance may be effected by art; it sometimes, but rarely, occurs spontaneously. 2. By suppuration and ulceration. A simple tumour may inflame ; and, suppurating to the core, may crumble down by disintegration; or ulceration may commence on the surface, and gradually extend to the interior ; the parts subse- quently healing by a depressed and tight cicatrix. By the same process, it will be seen, an erectile tumour may disappear, partly by loss of sub- stance, partly by condensation of what remains. 3. By sloughing. Any circumscribed tumour may be so extruded. Not by inflammatory pro- cess within the tumour itself; but in consequence of diffuse purulent formation having taken place in the surrounding areolar tissue, whereby that tissue is destroyed. The tumour, deprived on all sides of its vital supply, rolls out, an inanimate mass. Tumours are found to vary as to the power and probability of repro- duction. Some have no such tendency. The simple tumoiurs, taken wholly away by operation, are seldom if ever reproduced in the same site. Some may have even a part left behind, and yet fail to grow again ; a glandular or an adipose tumour has sometimes been but partially removed, yet the cicatrix has become firm and permanent, and no subsequent in- crease has occurred. As a general rule, however, it is well to hold, that m even the simplest formations the whole of the morbid structure must be taken away ; so as to render it certain that reproduction shall not ensue. In all malignant growths that rule is most imperative ; the slightest fragment of the morbid structure, remaining, is sure to become the root from which a fresh formation will speedily arise. Examples of tumour occasionally present themselves, differing from any of the types usually described. It is impossible to construct a dassi- Jication which shall embrace every growth. We attempt only that which may include the majority; arranging them, also, in a form at once con- venient for description, and suitable for enforcement of the iiractical details of treatment.