EESECTION OF THE SIIOULDER-JOINT. 909 Resection of the Shoulder-Joint. To expose tlie articulation, a flap may be made from the anterior or posterior part of the deltoid, or by raising the whole muscle as a single flap; or (Baudens) a single incision may be made longitudinally, over the anterior aspect of the head and neck of the humerus—the knife being entered below the clavicle, in the hollow between the cora- coid, clavicle, and head of the humerus, and carried down to a point midway between the head of the humerus and the insertion of the deltoid. In most cases, the latter mode is quite sufficient; and, being less severe, is to be preferred. The knife and finger having penetrated the joint, 18 remaining portions of the retaining apparatus are divided—more especially the muscles inserted into the greater and lesser tuberosities of the humerus, viz., the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus, and the subscapu- .aris. In this part of the operation ihe finger is the best guide. The iseased head is at the same time rotated, so as to bring the muscular attachments as near the external open- ing as possible ; and it is then made ;o show itself, and project through ihe wound—the limb being with this view carried forcibly backwards. By ihe saw, abbreviation is made to the required extent. The glenoid cavity then examined ; and, if found diseased, the affected part is taken away, by means of cutting pliers, or by a gouge. To facilitate removal of the whole glenoid surface, a free incision may be made along the posterior margin of the deltoid, in a direction somewhat analogous to that made in front. Bleeding having been arrested, the anterior and posterior cir- cumflex arteries usually requiring the use of ligature, the parts are accu- rately adjusted; the Avound is brought together, and the limb is retained steadily in a convenient posture. Healing by granulation is to be expected; with the formation of an artificial joint, more or less compe- tent to assume the functions of the original. Often it proves in all respects an admirable substitute. And thus many useful limbs may be retained, under circumstances which, but a few years since, would have caUed for nothing short of amputation. The operation may also be required, primarily, on account of injury done to the head of the bone; as by gunshot wound. Then the incision should be made so as to include in its track the wound of entrance. Fig. 305. Resection of the Elbow-Joint Few affections are more common than articular disease at the elbow. And not unfrcquently it advances to disorganization; with or without Fig. 305. Flap, placed in position, after resection of the shoulder-joint.