TREATMENT OF CONCUSSION. 603 the brain has occm-red; and in such circumstances, Heeding, employed merely to counteract the convulsive movements, will be found unattended by good results. In advanced cases, again, of injury of the head, the occixrrence of convulsions is by no means to be considered as sufficient \\-ari-ant for continuance and pushing of the antiphlogistics—especially blood-letting; for, often, they are found to be of an asthenic, or purely nervous character; aggravated by antiphlogistics, alleviated and checked by amendment of diet and soothing measures. The brain and membranes, having recovered from the inflammatory- process, remain long weak, and require still a watchful and patient care. Light and noise must not be soon or abruptly admitted. Conversation, reading, thought, or other exercise of the mental powers, must be dis- couraged. Even the functions of special sense should be held in com- parative abeyance. The head is shaved, elevated, and kept cooL Food is sparing and non-stimulant. The bowels are kept freely moving. If resolution do not occur, symptoms of compression of the brain supervene on those of concussion; coma is formed; and the case becomes one of the utmost danger. There is now no tolerance of active anti- phlogistics. The lancet is laid aside. Purging is cautiously continued. And the main rehance is placed on powerful counter-irritation. Even where inflammatory symptoms have not been urgent, recovery from concussion is often tedious, and imperfect. The eye remains wild and vacant in expression ; memory is impaired ; conversation is childish, and often incoherent; sometimes the demeanour is timid and gentle; sometimes the patient is very irascible, and apt to be moved to much \'iolence. In short, there remains an imbecihty of the whole mental powers. In other cases, certain only of the mental faculties thus suffer; and of these, memory is the one most frequently affected. Sometimes the recollection of all past events is either lost or obscured; sometimes a portion of these remain tolerably vivid and distinct. Sometimes the past is untouched, and the present only affected. Extraordinary results have occurred, in regard to languages ; when the knowledge of a plurality of these has been previously possessed by the patient. Certain of them have gone quite from him ; and on recovery from the first effects of con- iission he has spoken with fluency, and continued to do so, in a tongue to which he had been long a stranger.* Again, intellect may remain clear and entire, while special sense sustains an injury. Hearing and smell may be lost, impaired, or per- verted. Weakness of sight, with or without squinting, is no uncommon result. Confirmed epilepsy may become established. Such remote and chronic consequences of concussion may prove but temporary ; or they may remain for life. The affections of the mind are especially liable to prove obstinate ; and ought always to receive a very f,'uarded prognosis. The treatment found most suitable consists in a mild alterative mercurial course, with moderate and long-continued counter- irritation ; an uniformly lax state of the bowels, and occasional purging; ^ most carefully regulated diet ; restriction to moderate exercise of both •^ody and mind, but more especially of the latter ; avoidance of all sources mental excitement, especially of such as are known to be besetting tq * Sir A. Cooper's Lectures, p. 112.