BITES OF SERPENTS. 488 Thoiigli sucli be the general character of the results of these injuries, yet it is weU to remember that, in susceptible frames, the bites and stings of even the least poisonous creatures are not unfrequently followed by very troublesome consequences ; angeioleucitis, abscess, perhaps eruption, and febrile disturbance. Abroad, the accidents assume quite a different complexion. The bite of the rattlesnake in America, of the Cobra da Capello in India, the Puff-adder in Africa, and of various other snakes, is often followed by rapid dissolution.* The poison, acting on the nervous centres, through the blood, as formerly explained, may speedily arrest their functions ; and the patient dies of vital prostration. Or, reaction having taken place, the disordered state of the blood induces febrile disturbance of a low kind, aggravated by the local changes which meanwhile have occurred in the bitten part; and under this the patient may sink after a struggle more or less protracted. The local affection is in itself formidable. By the absorption of virus into the blood, and its subsequent diffusion tlirough the system, vital power is lowered generally. Ey imbibition of the jjoison in the part in- jured, the same result takes place locally. Under the stimulus of the injury, the part inflames ; and the process, advancing uncontrolled, in consequence of deficiency both in general and in local vital power, soon attains its worst results—gangrene, attended with diffuse infiltration of a putrid sanies. This, occurring in an otherwise sound patient, would of itseK induce constitutional disturbance of an alarming kind ; but when it affects a system already brought low by the constitutional and almost immediate result of the injury, it can readily be understood that the most dangerous consequences are likely to ensue. Under such circumstances the required activity of treatment is great, proportioned to the urgency of the case. The first and main indications are—to prevent absorption of the virus, and to obtain its expulsion from the part. With this view, a ligature is to be thrown instantly round the limb, between the heart and the bitten part; so as to obstruct return of venous blood from the latter. Thus time is afforded for fulfilment of the second part of the indication ; destruction or expulsion of the virus. The wound may be destroyed by actual cautery; taking care to include the whole of the tainted textures, and something more.f Or if the part be favourably situated, free excision may be practised—with a similar precaution as to margin. Or if that be impracticable, free incision should * *' Snakes are certainly an annoyance ; but tlie snake, tliougli liigli-spiiited, is not quarrelsome ; he considers liis fangs to be given for defence, and not for annoy- ance ; and never inflicts a wound but to defend existence. If you tread upon him, he puts you to death for your clumsiness, merely because he does not understand what your clumsiness means ; and certainly a snake, who feels fourteen or fifteen stone stamping upon his tail has little time for reflection, and may be allowed to be poison- ous and peevish."—Sid. Smith's Works, vol. ii. p. 140. f " The snake charmer in India is provided with very eflectual means for safety. The assistant carries small cauteries, in sliape and size corresponding exactly to the fangs of the creatures with whom the performer plays ; and in the event of a bite, the cautery, heated in a cliaulfcr also carried for the purpose, is instantly inserted into the wound ."—I^ancet, No. 1530, p. 694.