CHAPTER XXIIL OF FEACTUEE. Fracture is a solution of continuity in bone, usually the result of external violence, directly or indirectly applied; sometimes effected by muscular action alone, but apt to be followed by serious consequences, as suppuration, gangrene, erysipelas, phlebitis, or pyaemia. Various terms are employed to designate the kind and circumstances of the injury. It is called transverse, oblique, or longitudinal, according to the direction in Avliich the break has occurred. It is said to be SimjAe, when there is mere fracture of the bone, at one part; and nothing more. Compound, when in addition to the injury of bone, there is an open wound of the superimposed soft parts, communicatmg with the fractm-e. Single, Double, Midtij)le, or Comminuted, when the brealcing is at one point or many ; or occasioning numerous fragments. CornxMcated, when some serious injury of neighbouring j)arts influences prognosis or treat- ment ; as e. g., when dislocation co-exists, or a traumatic aneurism forma in consequence of the injury inflicted by the broken bone on the neigb bouring artery. It is said to be a case of Fracture with wound, when the co-existent wound of the soft parts is at a different place, and does not necessarily communicate with the injury of the bone. Fractures are sometimes complete, at other times the whole thickness of the bone has not given way ; they are then called incomplete or particd. The parts of the skeleton most liable to fracture, are the long bones, more especially of the extremities ; and these may sufi'er by violence applied either directly or indirectly. The flat and spongy bones, with the exception of those of the cranium, are less liable; and seldom give way excej)t under violence which is both direct and severe. A bone does not always break at the point struck. A blow on the symphysis menti, in most cases, occasions fracture of the jaw at the bicuspid teeth, midway between its symphysis and the angle ; a concuss- ing force applied to the lower extremity, through the foot, ordiuarily expends itself in producing fracture of the tibia near the ankle, and of the fibula at its upper part. The broken fragments visually become more or less displaced; this is not, however, always the case, as we see in the skull, and in the fracture of one of twin bones. In the long bones it is least marked in those cases of transverse fracture, where the force occasioning the lesion has acted directly. The direction of the force wherewith the injury was inflicted may push one or both portions at the seat of fracture past each other; and the weight of the limb or body may increase displacement by angulation or rotation, wlien the part is raised, or when an attempt is made to use it. Another important agent in effecting further displace-