A lit IN Till'; VKINS. 44G gurgling sound. Tliis is immediately followed by a convulsive struggle • often preceded by a sudden exclumation expressive of impending danger or death. On auscultation, a " clmrnuig noise is heard in the heart, syn- chronous with the ventricular systole;" and tlie hand applied to the chest " perceives at the same time a peculiar bubbling, thrilling, raspin^ sensation, occasioned by the air and blood being, as it were, whipped together" Avithin the ventricle.* If but a few particles of air have entered, the alarming symptoms pass away, and the patient rallies. however, the entrance have been copious, convulsions continue; syncope occurs, and is permanent. In some cases, death has proved quiet and rapid, as if by simple syncope; no convulsive movements having taken place. In most, it is a struggle to the last. For some time after respiration has ceased, the heart continues to beat; it is the ultimum moriens, in this instance. It might be supposed that the air distending the heart would clog its action; and that death would begin there. But it is not so. The mode of death would seem to be the following :—The blood becoming mingled with air, assumes a frothy character in the right ventricle, and thence is sent through the jDulmonary artery; but is more or less arrested in the pulmonic capil- laries, or terminal branches of the pulmonary artery, in consequence of the right ventricle being unable to overcome the mechanical obstacle pre- sented by air bubbles in these vessels. The quantity of blood transmitted through the lungs, for the systemic circulation, grows less and less; according to the increase of obstruction and arrest in the lung's capil- laries. The supply to the head is inadequate to afford due stimulus to the nervous centre ; and syncope results. If circulation be not restored, the syncope continues; the respiratory movements then cease, and life becomes extinct; the heart last failing in its action, from want of its necessary stimulus, the blood. When operating in the dangerous localities of the neck and trunk, care should be taken to prevent this accident. The chest and abdomen may be tightly bandaged, previously to the commencement of the opera- tion, during its performance, and for some time after its completion ; to prevent deep inspiration—the state most favourable for the airs entrance. But the careful employment of anaesthesia secures a like favoui-able ten- dency, more simply, and with equal certainty. The larger veins should be avoided as much as possible by the knife ; and when cut, of necessity or by accident, means should instantly be adopted to prevent the occur- rence of those circumstances which are favourable to canalization. Per- haps the most effectual means is to shut the orifice" by an assistant's finger, until the operation is completed. Air having entered, as indicated by the peculiar noise, and the alarm- ing symptoms which immediately follow, instant and firm pressure is to be made on the venous orifice or orifices, and accurately maintained, so as to prevent further ingress. Then, our attention is to be directed to prevention of the fatal result. The first indication is, to maintain due exercise of the cerebral functions, by furnishing, if possible, a suitable supply of arterial blood. ■ For this purpose, we must husband the small available systemic circulation; determining it to the head, and leaving * Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, January 1844, p. 6. Ericbsen.