TUMOURS OF NERVES. 457 IS likely to be serviceable, when a suspicion exists of rheumatic origin or complication. Turpentine, too, has proved of use; especially in affections of the sciatic nerve. Croton oil, used as a smart purgative, has ften afforded relief; acting perhaps on the principle of counter-irrita- tion, besides sweeping away noxious matter which may have accumulated iu the interior. Stimulants of the nervous system have been tried, and with some success. Kelief has followed the application of electricity and galvanism directly to the nerves, by means of acupuncture ; as well as the internal use of strychnia, in doses of the twelfth of a grain. In all cases, it is most important to commence the internal treatment by evacuants, followed by alteratives; and to persevere in the simple use of these, until the primas vise exhibit satisfactory evidence of a nor- mal state, as to contents and secretion. There are but few cases, also, which will not receive benefit by cessation from laborious and anxious avocations, with change of air; more especially if the change be from a humid, relaxing climate, to one which is dry and bracing. Interruption of continuity in the alfected nerve, by subcutaneous section or excision of a portion, has been tried extensively ; but with so little success as scarcely to warrant repetition of the experiment. In many cases relief is obtained for a time ; but soon there is return of the pain, either at the same site or elsewhere ; probably with aggravation, on account of the structural change which must have inevitably occurred in each end of the cut nerve. Excision, therefore, is now prudently limited to those cases in which an obviously altered portion of the nerve affected can be safely and completely taken away. Tumours af Nerves. All tumoxirs are liable to occur in connection with the nervous tissue ; but two are peculiar to it, the Neuroma, and Painful tubercle. Neuroma.—This is usually a simple tumour, and of a fibrous nature ; consisting of dense plastic matter lodged amongst the fibrils of the nervous tissue, which are thereby separated, and usually rendered the seat of perverted sensation. Sometimes the formation occurs spontaneously ; more frequently it follows remotely on wound, or other external injury. It may take place in the course of an undivided nerve, such as the median or sciatic ; and specimens exist in different museums of such formation occurring in nearly every nerve in "the body—as in the re- markable cases related by Mr. Smith of Dublin ; more frequently the neuroma forms on the truncated extremity of a nerve after division, as m amputation. When in the former situation, it usually arises without any appreciable cause; is of an oval shape ; and may attain to the size ot a prune or small egg. Above and below the enlarged part, the nerve resumes its wonted form and appearance. In such circumstances, al- ough usually of a fibrous character, the neuromatous tumour sometimes presents all the character and progress of medullary cancer. In some ^ ses the tumour involves the neurilemma and fibrils in its structure; en, however, it is of a purely fibrous nature, the fibres may surround enclose the tumour without being implicated iu its texture.