THE FATTY TUMOUR. 163 a certain amount of cartilage (tlie eliondroid tumour of Milller) or of bone. And in those which occujpy a subcutaneous site, elastic fibres are not uncommon. Sometimes cysts are formed; the contents various. The last variety constitutes the common form of " Cystic Sarcoma;" cysts, simple or proliferous, filled with innocent product j the stroma fibrous. The diagnosis of fibrous tumours is ordinarily not attended with much difticulty. They are the most dense and firm of all simple tumours of the soft parts. Their shape is irregularly globular, seldom lobed, but their surface frequently nodulated. The investing capsule is sometimes tolerably compact, presenting a smooth surface to the tumour, with which it is slightly connected. They are perfectly circumscribed, movable, and independent of the tissue in which they appear—outgrowths excepted. They may occur in any situation. They are frequently found in the neck, in the vicinity of. the mammary and parotid glands, and connected with the uterus. They are common, too, in bone, in nerve- tissue, and in connection with sheaths of tendon. They are painless, slower in growth than any other tumour, and the least liable to change in structure or tendency. They are consequently inconvenient mainly by their bulk; and by the uneasy sensations, and interruption to function, which their compression of neighbouring parts may occasion. "When superficial, and of large size, the inflammatory process may cause softening of the structure, with increased growth, and ulceration of the skin; hemorrhage taking place more or less copiously. It has been asserted that the fibrous tumour never degenerates ; and that, therefore, as it is of slow growth, it need not be made the subject of operation, early, or at all This, however, seems to be an exaggera- tion of the fact. It is slow of growth as a fibrous tumour, and is little prone to abandon that character j but age of the patient, and accidents of the system, duration of the tumour, and its frequent injury or stimulation, may lead even the fibrous structure into degeneracy, with rapidity of untoward advancement. Let extirpation be had recourse to, then, while the tumour is yet small, simple, and free. No hope need be entertained of absorption. When circumscribed the mass is removed alone, by simple dissection from its capsule. When it is incorporated with primary struc- ture, as in connection with bone or nerve, a certain amount of this must at the same time be sacrificed. 4, Fatty Tumoues.—Fatty matter occurs in morbid growths in several microscopic forms; of which the chief are, l&t. Crystals, laminated, or radiated and acicular (the former being cholesterin, the latter margarin). %1. Molecules, granules, and globules, which are of very frequent occur- rence in almost all morbid structures, and are chemically composed of olein holding margarin in solution, and accompanied by more or less albuminous matter. M. Disposed in distinct cells, like those of normal adipose tissue. The first two forms here mentioned are pecuKar to no special kind of tumour; occurring in both simple and malignant formations) and found in great abundance in encysted growths, where the fatty matter IS entirely extra-vascular and undergoes no further organization. A form ot tumour of not very common occurrence, and described by MliUer under the name of Cholesteatoma, consists of fatty matter, chiefly in the first two forms, and also contained in very thin imperfectly-organised cells.