SECONDARY ABSCESS. 101 this can be accomplished by one proceeding, and by that only—incision. A bistoury is passed freely into the infiltrated part, throughout its whole space; making one or more wounds, according as the extent of the infil- tration may demand. The fluid already formed readily escapes, and along with it a considerable quantity of blood; by tliis bleeding the vessels concerned in the morbid process are directly rifled of their contents ; the probability is, that the inflammatory process will in consequence subside; and subsequent formation of pus in the part originally affected, as well as continuous extension of the disease to neighbouring parts, will be either diminished or altogether arrested. After bleeding has ceased—the amount carefully regulated according to the circumstances of the case—a light poultice, or the water-dressing, is applied. Suppuration for a time is tolerably profuse ; for ulceration is necessarily in progress, to detach the areolar tissue which has perished. In no long time, however, the slough is separated, and comes or is brought away; granulation is begun, and if matters advance favotu-ably the discharge becomes less copious and more laudable, the wounds heal, and cicatrization is duly completed. In this disease, it is plain that incision should be practised at an early period ; so soon as we are satisfied that suppuration is begun. The longer the delay, the greater the danger to texture, and the more serious the disorder of the system. This mode of local bleeding, too, is the most likely means of arresting the advancing process, and so prevent- ing suppuration altogether, except at the mere line of wound; a practice which will be more fully stated when treating of phlegmonous erysipelas. After incision, the local treatment is for an ordinary suppurating wound; applying early, gentle, and uniform support by bandaging, to prevent further infiltration of accumulated discharge; favouring cohesion of the partially undermined parts, now freed from their foreign fluid; and accelerating the general process of granulation. The Irritative Fever is best treated by effectual and early removal of its cause ; that is by the local management just detailed. Often little else is required. During the first period of the symptoms, antimony, bella- donna, or aconite may be given cautiously; softening the pulse, and allay- ing those symptoms of the febrile disorder which border on the inflam- matory type. Afterwards—nay sometimes from the very outset—iron is given in full and sustained doses, with food, tonics, stimuli, as circum- stances may demand. Secondary Abscess—Asthenic. By Secondary or Consecutive Abscess is meant the formation of pus, not in the onward course of an inflammatory attack; but during its recession, or after it has altogether disappeared. The event is more fre- quently observed in connection with the erysipelatous than with any other form of inflammatory affection; and more frequently in hospital than in private practice. An Erysipelas—it may be of the simplest kind apparently—has run its course; all trace of it is rapidly fading away ; or oven some days may have elapsed since there was any sign of the disease either in part or system. The patient feels, and is thought,