1231 ATROPHY OF TIIE TESTICLE. Irritable Testicle. This term is usimlly made to include mere increase of the sensibility of the organ, as well as decided neuralgia. The former is almost always dependent on some affection of the urethra, bladder, or kidney, or on disorder of the general system; and is to be remedied accordingly. But it may—lilce the tumid and sensitive breast of the female—be the temporary consequence of change at puberty; and it may also follow mere excess in venereal excitement. It is a formidable disease ; inasmuch as it is attended with great suffering, and is but little amenable to any treatment. Uneasiness is almost constant, the part is tender to the touch, and violent pain comes in paroxysms. There is little or no enlargement, or other morbid indication in the organ ; in general, it is intolerant of pressure and manipulation ; and, during the paroxysm, it is retracted close upon the groin. The patients most liable to suffer from such affections are the weak, nervous, dyspeptic, and the subjects of oxaluria, more especially if they have indulged in venereal excess. Occasionally the affection is combined with cirsocele ; and seems to depend on that morbid con- dition of the veins. But, in general, the origin of the affection is equally obscure as in most other cases of neuralgia. The treatment is such as is generally applicable to this disease. Among the more suc- cessful local applications, aconite, belladonna, and nitrate of silver, may be mentioned ; among those used internally, iron, and the liquor arse- nicalis. Frequently but little imj)rovement folloAVS the most skilful management; and the patient may be driven by his sufferings to de- mand castration. This request is seldom if ever to be complied with, however; inasmuch as the neuralgia is likely to return, in the cord, or other testis; being not dependent on any local cause capable of being removed by the operation. Atrophy of the Testicle. Gradual wasting of the testicle may follow acute orchitis, as already noticed; and a blow or squeeze may result in this, with the interven- tion of a slight inflammatory process.* It is not uncommon for atrophy of the testicle to supervene on cirsocele. The pressure of hydrocele, too, would appear, in some few cases, to cause diminution of the gland ; and the same result has followed the pressure of fatty or other tumours. Continence, and the prolonged use of iodine internally, are supposed to tend to atrophy; but the truth of the supposition seems more than doubtful. In most cases where atrophy has followed the use of iodine, it has been due to preliminary disorganization of the secretory struc- ture of the gland, effected by the pressure of some chronic product of an inflammatory or syphilitic type. Suppuration of the testicle may cause loss of part of the tubular structure, with obstruction and consequent absorption of the remainder. Atrophy of one or both organs, it has been ' * Squeezing of the testicles is a mode of castration in oriental courts ; complete atropliy being found to result. And the same method is applied to the lower ani- mals ; bucks for example.