CHAPTER XLVL AFFECTIONS OF THE AETERIES OF THE NECK AND SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. Deligation of the Carotid. The common carotid artery may require deligation on account of aneu- rism, hemorrhage by ulcer or wound, or erectile tumour in the orbit. Carotid aneurism is more common in females than in males, and is usually situated at the upper part of the vessel, near the angle of the jaw ; forming a tumour there of the ordinary characters, which, should it become diffuse, might seriously interfere with respiration. It possesses a pecu- liarity of being ill surrounded by repressing tissues ; and, growing chielly towards the pharynx, may imperfectly consolidate after operation. Some- times—but fortunately comparatively seldom—the disease affects the Origin of the artery ; and then its interference with respiration is more early and serious. From sudden increase of the tumour—by diffusion or otherwise—immediate performance of tracheotomy may be demanded to save from urgent threatening of asphyxia. In traumatic aneurism, the aperture in the vessel may be either high or low in the neck; in the former situation admitting either of the Hunterian operation, or of that by laying open the sac, as circumstances may render expedient. In the latter case, the arterial aperture is compressed with the finger against the trans- verse processes of the vertebrae, and the trunk tied above and below the wound.* The artery may be secured at any part of its course; but, when we have our option, the operation has usually been performed at one of two points ; above or below where it is crossed by the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle. The former situation is the more easy of access, and 18 to be preferred when circumstances are favourable; but in cases of aneurism, the tumour wiU generally be found to have encroached too far on the upper triangular space. Tlie superior operation is performed thus :—The patient having been placed recumbent, with the head thrown back and turned slightly to tho opposite side, an incision, from tlu-ee to four inches in length, is mado through tho integuments, platysraa myoidcs, and fascia of the stcrno- maatoid, extending in the direction of and over the inner border of that muscle, from tho level of the upper margin of the thyroid cartilage, to a pomt below the level of the cricoid cartilage. The inner margin of the stomo-mastoid is drawn outwards, and the deep fascia of tins muscle * Sec Syme's Observations in Cluiical Surgery.