CHAPTEE XX. OF WOUNDS. The term Wound need not "be defined. It is used in surgery in its ordinary accejDtation. Many such injuries are the result of accident; others, of design. They vary in extent and importance; from a mere scratch, to amputation of the hip-joint, or a gunshot laceration wliich may tear away the half of the thorax. But, indeed, all are important; and the least should never be regarded either as trivial, or as matters connected with a j^art alone. Those apparently most simple may involve, ultimately, much suffering and danger. Hemorrhage, erysipelas, gangrene, hectic, pyaemia, tetanus may occur; bringing life and limb into the most imminent peril Woiinds are of different kinds; and, classifying them, we speak of Incised, Subcutaneous, Contused, Lacerated, Punctured, Poisoned, and : Gunshot wounds. In examining and describing wounds for forensic ( purposes, the site, direction, and characters of the- wound should be carefully noted, more especially its relation to neighbouring fixed points. and to deeper-seated parts of importance. When the wound has beeni inflicted through the clothes, the correspondence of the aperture in themi with the solution of continuity of the surface should be noticed. The < instrument with which the wound is supposed to have been inflicted< should be compared with the wound itself, and any stains upon it should i: be carefully examined, for the purpose of determining whether composedt of rust, or due to the presence of blood. The same careful investigations should be made of stains tipon the clothes, and the mere fact of its being» blood should not alone be decided ; but, so far as is reliable, the questionn of its being human blood should be carefully considered. The best te^fll for blood are, 1st, Microscopic examination of a portion of the suspect^H staiai, which has been allowed to soak upon a slip of glass in a sm^^ quantity of glycerine, for the discovery of corpuscles ; 2d, The chemico- micrological detection of crystals of ha3mine.* I. Incised Wounds. These are inflicted by a sharp-edged, cutting instrument. Tlicy arc the most simple and favourable kind of injury; being the most capable of speedy union by adhesion, and consequently least liable to inflamiuatory or other accidents. Their surface is greater than their depth ; and they are free from laceration and contusion. Their most prominent symptom, and greatest danger, is hemorrhage, especially ai-terial. In the treatment, our first care is to arrest the hemorrli ago. Oin * Fide Vircliow's Cellular Patliology, iTanslatcd by Chance, ji. 146.