803 ABSCESS OF THE TONSIL. oniployed at the vevy lii-st. In the pustulous and ulcorativo, it will be found very advantageous. In (he diplithcrititi eases, chlorine, as a local application, and administered internally, witli chlorate of potash, iron, nutriment, and latterly stimulants, are i-oquired. Abscess of the Tonsil. An acute ahscess, of some size, in the tonsil, requires active surgical interference. If allowed to follow its own course, much distress is likely to be occasioned by pain and swelling, ere evacuation and subsidence take place; indeed, the swelling may be such as not only to prevent de- glutition wholly, but also to impede respiration and threaten asphyxia. Besides, spontaneous bursting of the abscess may take place during sleep; and a considerable quantity of pus and blood, passing suddenly and unexpectedly into the glottis, may induce spasmodic dyspnoea of the most formidable character, not improbably sufibcating the patient. To avert such results, the general principles of surgery should be fully car- ried out j by artificially evacuating the pus, so soon as it has been formed. This may be readily and safely effected thus :—The patient, placed be- fore a strong light, is exhorted to great steadiness. With the fore-finger of the left hand the tongue is depressed, and the month opened so as to expose the red and prominent tonsil—perhaps already occupying the middle of the fauces, and displacing the uvula, the ordinary occupant of that space. A straight sharp-pointed bistoury, with its back resting on the tongue, is passed into the mouth and entered into the centre of the swelling, with the point directed straight backwards, as if with the in- tention of impinging upon the anterior surface of the cervical vertebr£E— and not further out than a line corresponding to the inner side of the second molar in the lower jaw. A puncture having thus been made, a sufficient aperture is then established by moving the instrument towards the middle line with a slight sawing motion. The pus escapes upon the tongue, and is discharged externally. The edge and point of the knife should never be carried outwards and backwards ; otherwise important blood-vessels are in danger—the internal carotid artery and the internal jugular vein posteriorly, and the common trunic of the temporal and in- ternal maxillary arteries on the external aspect, being closely related to the tonsil. A chronic stage is not unfrequent, in which the tonsil remains swoln, painful; and stationary; affording no sign either of recession by resolution, or of advancement by suppuration. Such uncertainty is best dispelled—and usually at once—by the application of a blister be- neath the angle of the jaw. It is of use to remember, that a patient once alTected by tonsillary abscess is extremely liable to return of the affection, on the application of comparatively slight causes, until the first period of adult ago has passed ; and then the attacks become less frequent and severe, at length altogctlier disappearing. In some cases in children, tonsillar abscess is accnuipanied witli sup- Ptiration of the neighbouring parts of the neck, behind and below the finglc of the jaw. In one such case^ in a child about nine months old,