6G VESICANTS. class of counter-iri'itauts are not to be employed, until a comparatively late period ; when all activity of morbid cTiange has been fairly subdued by other and more suitalile means. Nor should they ever be used, Avith- out much caution, in either cliildrcn or adults of a peculiarly irritable habit; for, in the latter, they are apt to have a constitutional effect, the reverse of antiphlogistic ; and, in the former, it is possible that the cure may prove worse than the disease. Dry-ciqoping may be ranked among the simple counter-irritants ; that is, the glasses being applied in. the ordinary way, Imt without the use of the scarificator. Blood is brought to the surface and there retained, during the application, as well as for some time afterwards. The effect, as formerly stated, is obviously derivant; but, besides, the nutrition of the tissues is temporarily modilied, and if the glass is rudcjly rubbed over the surface very considerable irritation is produced. 2. Vesicants both counter-irritate and more decidedly and permanently modify nutrition ; not only bringing blood to the surface, but also pro- ducing more or less inflammatory product in the form of fibrinous serosity collected in a bleb or blister. Heat of considerable intensity; the minor cautery, applied slowly and firmly; ammonia ; cantharides, in the various forms of blistering paper, tissue, and liquid; nitrate of silver rubbed hard on the part, till pain is felt, till the roots of the hairs look blue, and till the general colour of the skin begins to change—are familiar examples. They are more powerful in their effects, local and therefore reflex, than the rubefacients; and, consequently, are adapted to oppose a higher grade of disease. Their ef&cacy is especially admitted in regard to the final subjugation of inflammatory affections of the serous and s^'^no- vial membranes. Often, under their use, the embers of acute disease are quickly extinguished; and inflammatory product in internal parts speedily disappears. The simple form of the cantharides is apt to irritate the kidneys; as evinced by strangury, sometimes severe. In affections of the genito- urinary system, therefore—more especially of the kidneys themselves—we either prefer another vesicant, such as the nitrate of silver, or employ the cantharides with much caution ; giving copiously bland mucilaginous drinks, and using one of the " telse vesicatorise," rather than the ordinary plaster. These profess to avoid this casualty, and often keep their promise. If very rapid vesication be desired, ammonia in a concentrated form, or boiling water, or the surface of a smoothing iron removed sud- denly from boiling water, may be employed ; or the part may be covered with spirits of wine, which is then set on fu'e. 3. Supptirants prove still more highly evacuant; by setting up such a degree of the inflammatory process in the artificially afiected surface, as to establish a more or less copious and persistent discharge of pus. An ordinary blister may be converted into tliis class. At fii'st., it discharges serosity. Tins becomes less in quantity, and of greater consistence, contain- ing a certain amount of fibrin ; and at length it dries up, the part recover- ing with cuticular desquamation. The inflammatory process has passed gradually away. But should this be maintained, cither by reapplication of the blistering tissue, or by the use of some other irritant—as tartar emetic, cantharidine, or savine ointment—the serous discharge is sue-