238 AFFECTIONS OF INTERNAL ORGANS vauccd life. Next to the pulmonary lesions, diseases of tlie kidneys and of the heart, in both sexes—and, in women, of the uterus—are the most frequent; and important disorders of the brain, liver, intestines, and spleen, are far from being of rare occurrence. Many of these affections are found to have undergone cures; others may be in a state of progress at the time of death, and yet apparently unconnected with the fatal event; Avhile, in many cases, they have obviously hastened this, either by imparting to the fatal disease a more formidable character, or by act- ing as either its predisjDosing or exciting cause. It is obvious that the chances of an operation, or other violent inter- ference with the natural condition, as likewise the prognosis and treat- ment of many external maladies, must be constantly modified, and tliat to a very considerable extent, by such antecedent circumstances. The presence of Bright's disease of the kidney, of tubercular phtliisis, ol' organic disease of the heart, of chronic affections of the brain or liver, may not be inconsistent with a certain amount of health, and enjoyment of life, under the usual conditions ; but they form a most dangerous complication of any severe injury, and are often sufficient to render the chances of an otherwise justifiable operation worse than those of the dis- ease it is intended to remove. Hence, every patient about to be sub- jected to severe operative procedure, should be submitted to a medical examination, as satisfactory as his state will permit; and the surgeon's hand should be guided by as ample a knowledge as possible of his patient's previous constitution, diseases, and predisposition. Even if the operation should be determined upon, in unfavourable circumstances, the precaution wiU often enable us to foresee and guard against calamities, wliicb. might otherwise have been unnoticed and unlooked-for till too late for either prevention or relief. Internal diseases may of course arise accidentally, during the treat- ment of surgical cases ; presenting the most varied forms, and producing the most varied effects. It is impossible, however, to give any general rules applicable to such cases; which must be met by the care, vigilance, and general Imowledge of the individual attendant. 2. The internal disease may he the cause of the external.—Examples of this are familiar to every practitioner. They often come first under the eye of the surgeon, on account of the predominance and easily appreciable characters of the external symptoms, as compared with the more latent internal disorder. Nevertheless, to the latter, usually, atten- tion must mainly be directed in treatment; while the other is of course not neglected. Thus an abscess in the groin, or beneath the fascia of the thigh, may be connected with deep-seated disease of the vertebral column ; and may be readily mistaken, by the unwary or ill-informed surgeon, for a mere external affection. Abscesses in the root of the neck may communicate with the lung—though this is rare; less seldom they lie close upon, or are found in connection with, the aorta, or some other great vessel, which may bo at the same time the subject of disease. An abscess of the thoracic parietes may appear to be localized there, and yet may have been formed in consequence of a collection of matter in the pleura. An inflammatory affection of the abdominal parietes, leading to abscess, may result from