AMPUTATION AT THE ANKLE. 1369 aspect ol tlie ankle. Sufficient room will be obtained by an incision parallel with the sole of the foot, carried round the heel below the tuberosity of the os calcis, from the calcaneo-cuboid articulation on the outer, to a corresponding point on the inner side ; this is joined by a per- pendicular incision corresponding to the outer margin of the tendo Achillis ; the flap from the sole is then dissected up and turned for- wards ; and the two lateral flaps, after division of the tendo Achillis, are detached from the bones, particular care being taken of the posterior tibial artery and nerves. The peronei tendons may be sacrificed or not, according to the condition of parts. The osseous structui-es having now been thoroughly exposed, are removed by means of the bone-pliers. In one case, I removed the whole os calcis and astragalus by means of the f^ousre, with a far less extensive incision than that described. Tn another instance, the whole of the interior of the os calcis was taken away through an incision along the outer side of the bone, met by another at right angles extending upwards along the margin of the tendo AchiUis. The result in both was most successful. Further experience of such operations, however, is required, ere they can be received as substitutes for that next described. Amputation at the Ankle. When, in injury, the soft parts of the heel are sound, and no part of the foot and tarsus can be saved, amputation is required either in the leg or at the ankle. The latter site is preferable on more than one account; risk to life is less j mutilation is not so severe ; and the stump is not only more useful in progression, but also less liable to neuralgia and exfoHation. Disease of the ankle-joint does not contra-indicate the operation, unless the affection of the bone extends beyond the articu- lating end of the tibia. And, in most cases of disease of the tarsus and metatarsus, it were now indeed unwarrantable to perform any other operation. For the revival of this operation, and the introduction of the satisfac- tory procedure which bears his name, the profession is indebted to Mr. Syme. The patient having been suitably arranged on a table, a tourniquet is applied, so as to compress the popUteal artery ; or the fingers of an assistant may be employed, as in the partial amputations of the foot. A stout bistoury or short amputating knife is required for the operation. " The foot being placed at a right angle to the leg, a line drawn from the centre of one malleolus to that of the other, directly across the sole of the foot, wiU shew the proper extent of the posterior flap. The knife should be entered close up to the fibular malleolus, and carried to a point on the same level of the opposite side, which will be a little below the tibial malleolus. The anterior incision should join the two points just mentioned at an angle of 45° to the sole of the foot and long axis of the leg. In dissecting the posterior flap, the operator should place the fingers of his left hand upon the heel, while the thumb rests upon the edge of the integuments, and then cut between the nail of the thumb and tuberosity of the os calcis, so as to avoid lacerating the soft parts