AFFECTIONS OF MUCOUS MEMBEANE. 2G7 Fibroid 4. The Medullary. The first two are simple in structure, and Suppuration, it has been already stated, is a common result, while the iiiemhrane is yet entire; as iu gonorrlioia. But frequently the mem- brane does give way. Pustules form ; often in the follicles ; as similar formations occur in the analogous texture of the slcin. The pustule breixks, and ulceration follows, with purulent discharge ; the raw surface consisting of many isolated points, or of one continuous breach made by pustular coalition. Such changes are most frequently observed in the intestines, and in the mouth and fauces; in the latter situation they are termed Aphthae. Ulceration, however, is not always of pustular origin. It may originate from intense inflammatory change, as in other textures; spreading both in depth and surface; often accompanied with great constitutional disturbance, as in dysentery ; and even when healed, pro- ducing serious consequences, by contraction or other alteration of the affected part—as in the bowel or urethra, and in the gullet or windpipe. Or changes may take place exterior to the part, requiring subsequent surgical operation; as in the case of fistula in ano, induced by ulcer of the rectum. Or the result may be immediately fatal; as in perforating ulcer of the stomach or intestine. In some cases, however, comparative proneness to ulceration, when contrasted with the serous membrane, is no disadvantage; as in the evacuation of an abscess which has been baulked in the natural effort of reaching the integumental surface. In the intestine, and also in the windpipe, ulceration is often the result of tubercular change. An intense asthenic inflammatory process may terminate in gangrene of the membrane ; as in the worst form of Cynanche, and in some cases of Dysentery. This result, however, though more common than in serous membrane, is still, in reference to other tissues, comparatively rare. The chronic inflammatory process, affecting the mucous and sub- mucous tissues, often produces serious alterations of structure. The papillae and folhcles undergo enlargement and permanent change; the membrane is thickened; and by such thickening, but mainly by sub- mucous product, contraction of the canal occurs. Or ulceration may take place, slowly advancing; by perforation, endangering life; or, by con- traction in healing, compromising the functions of the canal. The treatment of inflammatory affections of mucous membrane is conducted according to general antiphlogistic principles. In the simpler forms, in accessible parts, great benefit is derived from hght use of the nitrate of silver, as in similar affections of the skin. Fibrinous results may urgently demand surgical interference ; and so may the oedematous; as in the windpipe. Ulceration, too, as abeady stated, may lead to operation; and contraction by mucous and submucous change is the sub- ject of daily manipulation, in the case of stricture of the urethra. Such matters, however, will be more suitably discussed hereafter. Tumours of Mucous Membrane. To these the term Polypus is applied. They are of various kinds. 1. The Simple Mucous. 2. The Cysto-mucous. 3. The Fibrous or