219 COLD STYPTICS, whose parietes are not very extensile, compression may be less exact than in an external wound, yet efficient. In profuse bleeding from the uterus, for example, we obstruct the vagina; in epistaxis, we plug the nares. In amputation, or operations on bones, profuse and troublesome bleeding may talce place from a large vessel imbedded in an osseous canal, and may refuse to be arrested by ordinary means. Pressure has been tried; ligature is inapphcable; the actual cautery is also inexpe- dient. Under such circumstances, if temporary direct pressure do not suffice, it is well to fit a piece of wood or cork into the aperture; securing it there, by the requisite degree of force, A portion of ligature is attached to the plug, and left pendent from the wound; and by this it is removed, so soon as the period of its usefulness has passed, and when it has become spontaneously loosened by the suppuration which its presence necessarily excites. 3. Position is important; so regulated as to retard and oppose arte- rial supply of the wounded part. The sanguineous flow being thus moderated, natural hemostatics are plainly favoured. In wound of the hand or foot, for example, the injured part should be placed in as ele- vated a position as circumstances will permit, and so retained till hemor- rhage has ceased, 4. Cold.—Cold is useful, not by superseding Nature's temporary hemostatics so much as pressure does, but rather by assisting them. It is applicable to the slighter cases; to oozing, rather than to ejection of blood. Opening up of the wound, and exposure to atmospheric air, may often suffice. Or, this failing, a greater degree of cold is appHed by means of lint, moistened in water; taking care that the cold is continu- ously maintained, either by the system of constant irrigation, or by very frequent wetting of the Hnt. This mode of treatment is in two ways useful; first, by tending to arrest hemorrhage ; second, by tending to avert inflammatory progress, and so to favour adhesion. The former indi- cation is fulfilled by the cold repelling general circulation from that part of the surface to which it is applied, at the same time constringing the vessels; also, by increasing contraction of the cut arterial orifices, and favouring the formation of coagula. 5. Styptics.—These also are auxiliary to the natural hemostatics. Cold water may be ranked among the number; the simplest, and the most generally applicable. There are others, however, which have a more powerful constringent effect on the arterial tissue; as gallic acid, turpentine, creasote, matico, solutions of iron, alum, zinc, mercury, etc. Of these, a strong infusion of matico deservedly stands high in favour ; and a saturated solution of the perchloride of iron is still more energetic with this qualification, however, that it may prove somewhat escharotic to the tissues to which it is applied. Whatever be their action, styptics may be generally rated as applicable '^nly to the slighter forms of hemorrhage; more especially to cutaneous mucous oozing ; and even then, not advisable until the more ordinary ""'^ suitable means—cold, exposure to atmospheric influence, and atten- i to position—have been tried, ineffectually. For styptics, being ally more or less of a stimulant nature, are in their ultimate effects