THE SCROFULOUS SORE. 113 restored—tliougli often it may be -well to continue the pressure, until tlie granulating surface is a little lower than the surrounding skin—their use is resumed. But local support is not alone sufficient. The general system requires our aid as well. Secretion and excretion having been found in order, or having been duly restored, nutritious regimen is enjoined ; given with a freedom proportioned to the power of digestion. And all sources of de- pressing influence are studiously avoided. 3. Tlie Scrofulous Sore. This class of ulcer is weak, almost from the first. For it is only one indication, among others, of a system not only decidedly weak, but of such debihty as establishes a decidedly vicious or cachectic state—that of scrofula. Such sores seldom occur singly. They are gregarious ; at first distinct from each other, but ultimately becoming more or less confluent. The most frequent sites are the neck, shoulders, arms, hips, lower limbs— especially in the neighbourhood of the articulations. The sores extend more in surface than in depth; yet their origin is not in the skin, as most other ulcers are, but in the areolar tissue beneath. Commence- ment is made there by tubercular formation ; causing induration and enlargement, at first painless. Then a low inflammatory process sets in ; and the consequences are pain in the infiltrated part, increase of swelling, and redness of the superimposed integument, with the other ordinary signs of chronic inflammatory progress. Imperfect suppuration takes place; and the swelling softens, and pits on pressure. By and by fluctuation is felt; and the fluid is seen through the skin, very much attenuated ; but there is no regular pointing. Almost the whole of the integument over the suppurated and infiltrated part becomes thin, blue, and translucent ; it gives way, partly by sloughing, partly by ulceration; and through the ragged, irregular aperture thus formed, portions of slough, mingled with thin pus and broken-down tubercular matter, are discharged. ^ For some time, no efibrt is made towards repair; on the contrary, the thinned and blue integument still fm^ther ulcerates, . ,' and the broken-down tissue beneath oozes away in the \ ^y^^'- discharge. The surface has no granulations, and is of a du'ty grey hue ; surrounded by thin discoloured skin, undermined, inverted, and floating loosely on the subjacent parts. After a time, some parts of the altered tissue having been cleared away, by dis- mtegration or sloughing, there granulations begin to appear. But they are of the weak kind ; tall, pale, and exuberant. A probe, used even with much ,p gentleness, passes readily through granulations into f the boggy texture beneath; causing little if any pain, 1 and but slight eff-usion of blood. Or, following a superficial course, it finds integument undermined, and a ready communication so established from sore to sore. Around the ckister, there is usually a considerable omount of the ordinary in- Fi^r. 26. The scrofulou.s sore on tli(^ leg. Of the gregariou.s kind.