652 OPIITIIA.LMIA TAllSI. moved in the little bit of conjunctiva, will be so exposed as to be easily picked off. When quick lime is lodged Avithin the eyelids, its caustic action may, unless speedily removed, produce such destnictive effects that the vision of the patient may be lost, either from the inmiediatc destruction of tissues, or from the consequent inflammatory process which ensues. The fragments in such a case should be carefully re- moved, as far as is practicable ; and then a weak vinegar lotion should be employed, to neutralize what remains. The foreign body having been removed, the eye is closed ; light is excluded; and antiphlogistics are employed according to circumstances. It is plain that if the foreign substance be not removed, the inflamma- tory process will certainly be established, and probably prove untoward and intractable. Cases are not wanting in which complete destruction of vision has been the ultimate result of but a small particle of foreign matter lodging in the conjunctival lining of an eyelid; perhaps with much injiuy done to the system, by severe and sustained treatment directed against the inflammatory process and its results.* Blepliaritis. The inflammatory process, attacking the eyelids, is so named. It may follow injury ; assuming the ordinary chaiacter and course, an amenable to the ordinary treatment. In erysipelas of the face, affection of the eyelids is usually a mo prominent symptom; the laxity of their areolar tissue admitting of muc and unseemly swelling. Punctui'es are usually necessary ; not so muc to abstract blood, as to evacuate serous accumulation, which may he s extreme as to invert the ciliary margin against the surface of the globe After recession of the primary symptoms, this part must be closel watched; for, during convalescence, reaccession of the inflammator attack is very apt to occur, advancing rapidly to suppuration. An unless an early incision be made here, the abscess will be large, and th integument will probably slough. In many cases the red, tumid condition of the eyehds is sjnnptomati of an acute and destructive inflammatory process going on within; an- must in such cases be regarded as an indication of the serious pro^ of the affection. Ophthalmia Tarsi, Lippitudo. By this is meant a congestion, or chronic inflammatory proces . affecting the eyelids; more especially at their margins. Eegiimin usually in the Meibomian follicles, a viscous, disordered secretion adlieref to the eyelashes, tending to cause cohesion of the ciHaiy margins. More or less lachrymation, in general, exists. The eyelashes are stunted, oi deficient; the tarsal margin becomes tliickened, the cartilage of the li is modified in its nutrition, and incurvation of it may be the consequence Itching, heat, and intolerance of hght, are usually present ; and general expression is bleared and unpleasant. The disease will usually be found co-existent with some vitiated " Lancet, No. lOGl, p. 435. One among many.