FISTULA IN ANO. 1014 ligature, if need be—as, however, very seldom is the case. Should any superficial siuus exist—burrowing beneath the integuments—it should be freely opened up at its most dependent point; but there is no occa- sion for dividing the various superficial ramifications of the sinus thi-ough- out all their extent. In the external form, in progress of formation by abscess originating in the areolar tissue, it has been proposed to evacuate the abscess, and then at once to complete the operation for fistula ; hoping thus to save time and pain. It is better to evacuate, and delay ; permitting the abscess to contract, and to degenerate into the condition of fistula; then operating for the cure of fistula. The wound is less painful and less extensive ; and the result is at least equally satisfactory. Similar caution is advisable in cases of old standing, in which abscess has re- peatedly formed around the anus with burrowing ; it is well to evacuate and drain by opening and counter-opening, waiting till the suppurated space has contracted, and when much less extensive incision will conse- quently be required. In the blind external form—that is, when we have searched careftdly for the internal opening, and found none—^as will seldom be the case— the probe may be made to penetrate the denuded mucous membrane, and the operation may be completed in the ordinary way; or the probe- pointed bistoury, having been passed to the usual site of opening, has the edge of its blunt point inclined towards the finger introduced within the bowel, where by a gentle scratching with the nail perforation is effected —the bistoury being then carried on and out as usual. The use of the anal speculum may assist in detecting the internal opening. And when this is found, the speculum may be retained as an auxiliary in the operation ; the parts yielding much more readily to the knife when put upon the stretch, as they are by lodgment of the open instrument. Immediately after withdrawing the knife, bleeding is attended to. If an artery spring, it is tied; if there is oozing, at all formidable, pres- sure is applied by stufi&ng the wound moderately with lint. Usually, there is no necessity for any such procedure; and it is enough to inter- pose a small portion of lint, or other dressing, between the lips of the wound, so as to prevent premature closure of the superficial part; our object plainly being, that the whole track shall heal fi-om the bottom. Before operation, the bowels should always be well cleared out by a purgative, aided by an enema if necessary. After the operation a full opiate is given ; to lull the pain, and at the same time to prevent move- ment of the bowels—this not being contemplated for a day or two. At the end of the third or fourth day, a dose of castor oil, or other simple and bland aperient, is given; and this, operating, brings away the con- tents of the rectum, including the dressing of the wound. Afterwards, it is enough to regulate the bowels; to make sure, from time to time, by passing the finger through the wound, that it is not closing pre- maturely, and that superficial sinuses are not forming; to attend to cleanliness ; to apply water-dressing, by means of lint and oiled silk ■ retaining the dressing by a T bandage, should that seem necessary; after- wards medicating this dressing by ordinary stimulants, as the state of the