1105 UTvETHEAL CALCULUS. secondary ; a vesical calculus having been arrested in its progress out- wards. It may be simply impacted in the canal, wliich dilates behind it; or it may become embedded in a cyst or abscess-cavity—sometimes formed of the urethral parietes, sometimes of condensed areolar tissue exterior to these. In the latter case, the symptoms may be slight; there being little obstruction to the flow of urine. Impaction in the canal, on the other hand, causes much distress, by pain, frequent desire to make water, and imperfect ability to obey the call If obstruction is complete, serious danger by retention of urine ensues. The calculus, when situated anteriorly, may be felt by manipulation in the course of the urethra. Treatment varies accordint? to circumstances. 1. If the stone be of considerable bulk, and arrested at the posterior part of the canal—and more especially if retention of urine exist—a catheter is to be introduced, by wliich the stone is dislodged, and pushed back into the bladder. There it can be afterwards dealt with by Lithotripsy. 2. If the stone be small, and situated anteriorly, it is to be brought to the orifice of the urethra, and thence extruded. Such forward movement may be effected by the fingers simply. Or a loop of wire may be insinuated past and behind the stone; and thus it may be extracted, like a cork out of a bottle. Or it may be seized by small dressing forceps ; or—more readily —by Hunter's forceps. Or a bent probe may be passed behind, and by it extrusion may be effected, as in the case of foreign bodies lodged in the nose or ear. 3. But the stone may be fixed, and not inclined to move in any direction. Then it is to be cut out. If situate in the prostatic or membranous portions, the operation of lithotomy on the gripe may be had recourse to. The fingers of the left hand, passed into the rectum, push the stone forwards on the perineum ; and there, through a semilunar incision made across the raph6, above the anus, it may be extracted. Or lateral lithotomy may be performed on a small scale. And in having recourse to this latter operation, for a stone of some size, lodged in the prostatic portion of the urethra, and long resident there, it is well to remember that considerable alteration may bf>,ve taken place in the bladder. It may have contracted completely on the stone ; the ends of the ureters abutting on this, and there being no cavity beyond ; the urine coming away constantly, by stillicidium. If a stone be found al- ready in the perineal portion of the urethra, it is to be removed through a direct incision, made in the centre of the raphd j and for tliis purpose, if a stricture staff can be coaxed past the obstruction, it is best and easiest to open the urethra to the requisite extent upon this. If the calculus present itself anterior to the scrotum, it is well not to excise it there; for wounds in that situation are slow to heal, and apt to degenerate into troublesome fistulse. By manipulation let it be brought behind the scrotum—if it refuse to advance to the orifice—and there let it be ex- cised, through a deeper but more manageable wound. Not unfrequently a calculus, after having passed all the rest of the urethra, with more or less suffering to the patient, is arrested at the orifice. Thence forceps, or a bent probe, may remove it. But if such difficulty be experienced in the attempt, as to threaten laceration of the parts, let an incision be made to dilate the orifice, by means of a narrow probe-pointed bistoury ; and then extrusion will be simple and immediate. 4. Sometimes a cal- 4 B