THE FATTY TUMOUR. 164 The siihstancG thus formed is of the consistence of tallow, and is deposited in successive layers in the interior of a thin cyst, forming a laminated mass, having a lustre like mother-of-pearl, and entirely without vessels. Tatty hypertrophies or out-groAvths are not uncommon, subcutaneously. The " double chin," and the "hump" on the nape of the neck, are familiar examples. They are chiefly inconvenient through bulk and deformity. In the neck, however, there is sometimes pain. Arrest and diminution of growth may some- times be obtained, by pressure, friction, and the external use of iodine. Some place faith in the internal administration of liquor potassae. Tatty tumours are of two kinds. In one the fat is fii'mer than the normal tissue, and compactly disposed in dense interlacements of areolar tissue. The swelling is usually oval and smooth; and the surface is apt to be rather firmly connected with its investing capsule. The site may be either superficial or deep—more frequently the latter. The other and more common variety—usually subcutaneous—in struc- ture differs not at all from normal adipose tissue. The tumour is always lobulated, often in all its aspects, and irregular in form; flat, globular cylindrical, according to circumstances. The sensation imparted to touch is one of elasticity, closely simulating fluctuation, and requir- ing the tactus eruditm to solve the difiiculty. Manipulation is quite painless : the integument, if not hypertrophied, is pale, slack, and freely movable on the tumour; and this, too, is loose upon the parts beneath, at least in the first instance. The investing capsule is deli- cate and fine ; the supply of blood-vessels scanty. When, however Fig. 48. Fig. 49. the growth has been of long duration, and attained to great size, both skin and tumour may become more fixed, the former being stretched over, and partly incorporated with, the buUcy mass; and the latter Fig. 47. Fat cells and granular matter, from a steatomatous tumom- of the ovary.— Bennett. Fig. 48. Fatty tumour, removed from a cyst under the tongue. It was as large as an orange. Fig. 49. Structiu-e of a fatty tumour removed from tlie back, a, Isolated cells shewing crystalline nucleus of margaric acid.—Bennett,