1022 THE OPERATION. Sometimes, after opening the sac, stricture at the ordinary sites is sought for in vain. In such cases it is likely to be found in the hernial contents themselves; a portion of omentum, for example, may encircle a portion of bowel. This is detected by careful manipulation; and is to be gently undone by the fingers, perhaps aided by a touch of the l^nife. After all constriction has been relieved, the protruded parts will sometimes resist the best directed efforts at reduction. If this is not due to adhesions to the sac, it may be produced by agglutina- tion of parts within, more especially to the parietal peritoneum close to the neck of the sac. The finger introduced within the abdominal cavity, and swept round the mouth of the sac, will usually detach such adhesion, and permit the ready return of the protrusion. The effect of the operation is, in most cases, to afford immediate relief to the uneasy symptoms which previously existed. The vomiting and retching cease, the sunk coUapsed state begins to pass off, the pulse becoming fuller, and, at the same time, soft; while the abdominal pain and tenderness gradually subside. The thirst ceases, the general surface becomes warm, and covered with a copious warm perspiration, and the patient either spontaneously or from an opiate, which should usually he at once administered after the operation, drops into a sound sleep. Sometimes the bowels act very soon after relief has been afforded; in other cases, not till a day or more has elapsed. In such favourable cases, rest and a simple non-stimulating diet are alone required, till the normal functions become restored; but no purge, however simple, should be given by the mouth, until many hours have elapsed—otherwise, as already stated, dilatation with obstruction will take place above the palsied portions of intestine, and the patient will probably sink under symptoms of ileus. After operation, the greatest attention must be paid, for some days, to prevent reproduction of descent, by keeping the compress accm'ately applied, and avoiding the ordinary exciting causes. Should reprotrusion take place, by coughing, restlessness, or imprudence of the patient, the dressing must instantly be undone, and replacement effected. When the sac remains unreduced, simulation of re-descent is apt to take place, by serous accumulation within the sac ; especially if the integumental incision be closed; but this state is at once detected and remedied, on opening up the wound. The patient should certainly not attempt to rise for any purpose, until the wound is so far healed as to admit of a well-fitting truss being worn, as in ordinary cases—seeing that the opera- tion rarely effects a radical cure. Should tenderness of the abdomen, acceleration of the pulse, heat of skin, thirst, or drawing up of the limbs, with arrest of the diaphragmatic breathing, indicate the occurrence of peritonitis—hot fomentation, with leeching, or even bleediug, should be immediately employed; opiates being given in such doses as will lull pain and afford rest, perhaps cautiously combined—unless the state of the bowel should forbid it—with calomel, or some other preparation of mercury.* If the intestine previous to reduction have shown an ad- * Dieffenbach is afraid of calomel; supposing that it acts injuriously on tlie bowel, and is apt to induce an unhealthy state of the -wound.—Ftdc his Operative Surgery, 1848.