AFFECTIONS OF MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 1180 surface situated eitliev marginally or inferiorly, usually produced by the pressure of the teeth, and presenting a yellowish sloughing hue. When an apparently condylomatous throat causes any doubt as to its nature, which is not set at rest by examining the cervical ganglia, and the more accessible cutaneous surfaces, the verge of the anus should be inspected—as condylomata are likely to be found there ; and the condition of the inguinal glands should also be determined. 4. Ulcerative affectiom of the mucous membrane—Excavated ulcer (Hunter). This is analogous to, and usually accompanies the pustulo-crus- taceous eruptions upon the skin. The ulcer presents a yellowish slough- ing surface, with, a red irritable margin, and tends to destroy the super- ficial part of the mucous membrane—not the submucous tissues, as is the case with the tertiary affections of the same parts. This ulcerative affection may sometimes in cachectic patients become phageda^nic. Treatment.—The earher and more superficial affections require but little local treatment. "Warm water, an astringent lotion^ or chlorate of potash gargle, the occasional application of nitrate of silver in solution, or in the solid form, with a mustard poultice externally, and the use of guaiacum in ten grain doses taken internally, will usually prove amply sufficient. The condylomatous affection generally requires the application to the surface, every second or third day, of the solid nitrate of silver, or sul- phate of copper. By some, mercurial gargles or weak lotions, applied by means of a hair pencil, are preferred. The constitutional treatment of secondary syphilis must be at the same time carried on. In the ulcerative affection, the nitrate of silver and sulphate of copper are sometimes not sufficiently powerful alteratives. The nitric acid may then be carefully applied, taking care to avoid dropping or diffusion of it on sound tissues. In phagedasnic cases, a solution of the permanga- nate of potash, or of the tartarised iron, should be employed as a gargle. By some, the hydrochloric acid ra infusion of cinchona is greatly trusted. In all cases, iron tonics, good food, cod-hver oil, and stimulants, wiU usually be found essential elements in successful treatment. Syphilitic affections of the Eye we have already considered in treat- ing of the diseases of that organ. « 1. Indurated chancre may form upon the lids, or at the commis- sure ; this, however, is a very rare lesion. 2. Ophthalmia tarsi of the scaly, pustular, or tubercular type, may supervene. 3. Keratitis, iritis, choroiditis, and retinitis may occur. 4. There may be affections of the nerves and muscles of the eyeball. The symptoms and treatment of all these maladies, we have already considered. Syphilitic affections of the teeth we have also already alluded to; forming as they do the key to many morbid states, which hitherto have been classified as of strumous or scrofulous origin. Tertiary Syphilis. The lesions included in this part of the syphilitic constitutional