PECULIARITIES OF ULCEUS. 130 the kidney :—under tliese circumstances, or such as tliese, we do not think of drying up the sore, which may bo truly looked upon as a safety-valve to the system ; but content ourselves with thp application of some simple and soothing dressing. We leave what may be termed the ebbing and flowing of the ulcerative process entirely in the hands of Nature ; our dressing tending simply towards comfort and protection. The healing of such sores is scarcely to be attempted. But there are others which, requiring great caution of interference, may yet ultimately be brought to heal j an issue, in a convenient situation, having been made to supply their place, for some time at least, as a drain—or rather safety- valve—in the general economy. A sore, secreting constantly a considerable quantity of pus, may have existed for years in the limb of an elderly patient. No prudent surgeon would ever propose to dry up that suddenly, by rapid cicatrization—even if he had it in his jDOwer to do so ; without leaving some substitute in its room, at least temporarily. For the sudden cessation of purulent discharge, to which the system had been long habituated, would be certain to occasion a plethora; this, in its turn, inducing determina- tions of blood to certain parts. And thus serious danger to internal organs would accrue ; by hemorrhage, sanguineous infiltration, or estab- lishment of the inflammatory process. Apoplectic seizure is especially probable under such circumstances. Yet, doubtless, the continuance of such a sore is not only a considerable inconvenience, but likewise has a debilitating effect on the general system, and consequently ^tends to the induction of other disease, to whose accession constitutional debility is favourable. Its closure is therefore desirable. And should no unpropi- tious circumstances exist, as stated in the j)receding paragraph, such closure may be safely enough conducted in the ordinary way; taking care, however, to establish an issue in some convenient and adjacent spot, so soon as the ulcer's discharge begins to lessen. This artificial drain is kept in full operation for some time—a fortnight or three weeks; and then, by gradually diminishing the bulk of the foreign body, by whose presence healing is prevented and discharge maintained, the system is so gradually subjected to diminution of the waste, that its ultimate cessation is scarcely appreciated.