1299 TREATMENT OF MORBUS COXARIUS. and, very often, an apparent shortening of the limb is to he observed, dependent on twisting of the pelvis ; acute fever attends; walking and even the erect posture are impracticable; often the slightest movement, even during recumbency, is attended with great agony. If the disease be not speedily arrested, suppuration takes place; the matter is dis- charged, by one or more openings ; and extreme articular disorganization too frequently results, with corresponding disorder of the system. Such a case is met by the ordinary treatment adapted to acute synovitis. Not unfrequently, the affection is partly of rheumatic origin. The chronic disease, or true morbus coxarius, is also amenable to the general rules of practice. But, as already stated, it is only in the lirst stage that comj)lete cure and restoration to health can be hoped for. The disease cannot be opposed too soon ; consequently, tact and experi- ence are of much value, in enabling the practitioner to detect with certainty the obscure and insidious commencement. The paramount indication is rest; one, however, wliich it is often very difficult to main- tain effectively. The patient must be wholly confined to the recumbent posture. Neither the weight of the body nor motion of the limb must for an instant be permitted to act on the affected joint; and the best way of accomplishing this, is to put the patient to bed, and keep him there ; the parents and attendants having been previously enlisted in the cause, by having the importance of the privation fully explained to them. The best means of securing complete repose is to apply the long splint, exactly as for fracture of the thigh bone. Indeed, the wearing of this splint may be recommended throughout the whole period of cure ; in order not only to oj^pose—gently and cautiously, at first—the decided tendency to flexion of the thigh which invariably exists—increasing along with the advance of disease—but, with the view of keeping the muscles around the articulation as thoroughly at rest as possible, lest by spasmodic twitching they aggravate the sufferings of the patient and tend to hurry on the destructive change. To facilitate the application of the sphnt, the patient should be put deeply under chlorofoi'm, vvhile the limb is completely extended by the employment of gentle coercion. At first, a few leeches may be advantageously applied over the hip— perhaps with repetition, should heat or pain seem to require this ; and then moderate counter-irritation is maintained, by inimction of croton oil, or tartar emetic* If the tubercular cachexy be suspected, the suitable opposing constitutional management is put in force—especially cod-liver oil. And by steady perseverance in such treatment, for some months, all symptoms of disease may subside; the patient may then dispense -with the splint, and after confinement to the sofa during a period of probation he may safely rise, without any feeling of local ailment; and, cautiously renewing the use of the limb, he may find, in duo time, all its functions fully restored. But if the disease threaten to advance, and the paia prove specially violent at night, the actual cautery should be applied behind the trochanter; unless, indeed, this be contra-indicated by the signs of acutely-developed scrofula. * Part of the remedial action of these counter-irritants—and no slight part—is to increase the security of rest to the limb, by rendering all motion externally painful.