750 RHINOPLASTICS. upper lip is found tumid and elongated ; and, consequently, removal of a portion of the redundancy would of itself be a considerable improvement " The inner surface of the apex is first pared, A sharp-pointed bis- toury is then passed through the upper lip—previously stretched and raised by an assistant—close to the ruins of the former columna, and about an eighth of an inch on one side of the mesial line. The incision is continued down, in a straight direction, to the free margin of the lip • and a similar one, parallel to the former, is made on the opposite side of the mesial line, so as to insulate a flap about a quarter of an inch in breadth, and composed of skin, mucous membrane, and interposed sub- stance. The frjenulum is then divided, and the prolabium of the flap removed. In order to fix the new columna firmly and with accuracy in its proper place, a sewing needle—its head being covered with sealing- wax to facilitate its introduction—is passed from without through the apex of the nose, and obliquely through the extremity of the elevated flap : a few turns of thread over this suffice to approximate and retain the surfaces. The flap is not twisted round as in the operation aheady detailed, but simply elevated, so as to do away with the risk of failure. Twisting is here unnecessary; for the mucous lining of the lip, forniiiig the outer surface of the columna, readily assumes the colour and appear- ance of integument, after exposure for some time, as is well knoAm" The fixing of the columna having been accomplished, the edges of the lip must be neatly brought together by the twisted suture, or silver wire suture, as in hare-lip, after the edges have been raised. " Some care is afterwards required, from both surgeon and patient, in raising up the alse, by filling them with lint—thus compressing the columna, so as to diminish the oedematous swelling which takes place in it, to a greater or less degree, and repressing the granulations. It is, besides, necessary to push upwards the lower part of the column, so that it may come into its proper situation ; and this is done by the application of a small round roll of linen, supported by a narrow bandage passed over it and secured behind the vertex." Partial Restoration of the Nose. When a portion of either ala is destroyed, the deficiency may be readily supplied from the adjoining cheek ; if there be the ordinary ful- ness there. The flap is raised, transplanted, and has its vascular supply maintained, by conducting the operation in the same way as for restora- tion of the whole organ. The wound in the cheek may, generally, he approximated entirely; and, in consequence, may be expected to unite by the first intention. The entire ala may be restored in a similar way. But if the cheek be either naturally spare, or already occupied by cicatrices, the flap must be brought from the forehead. An operation is performed, sinnlar to that for restoration of the whole organ, but on a minor scale. Wt^i the ridge of the nose is long, it is well to make a suitable furrow in its centre—by incision—for reception of the long connecting slip ; which, otherwise, finding itself but indifi'erently supported on the exterior o the nasal integument, might fail to afford due nourishmeut to the flap,