TREA.TMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS, 472 tion. And this is the only addition to the simple treatment hy plaster that is likely to become either expedient or necessary when adhesion is the mode of healing. So far the manipulations oi surgery are concerned. But the con- stitutional treatment is equally necessary ; rest, quietude, and antiphlo- gistic regimen. The last indication is especially important; and yet is often either disregarded or inefficiently fulfilled. In an approximated Avound, inflammatory excess is the great enemy of adhesion ; and, uidese regimen be kept of the most sparing kind, it can hardly be avoided. Immediately after infliction of the injury, the patient should receive little or nothing in the way of sustenance ; and all hot or otherwise stimulat- ing fluids should certainly be prohibited; otherwise, hemorrhage by re- action is favoured. And, subsequently, both food and drink should be kept on the tridy antiphlogistic scale ; so long as there is a wish for adhesion, and a probability of its occurrence. Probably, if this dietetic part of the treatment of wounds were more carefully attended to, the occurrence of adhesion would be proportionally more frequent. At the same time it is to be understood, that the principle may be carried too far. Both irritation and prostration of system must be avoided. Only during the first few days is starvation essential, while adhesion is yet probable. That having been attained, a gradual tranei-i tion is made into more generous regimen. Or, adhesion having failed, a similar transition is equally necessary, after the inflammatory crisis has been passed by. Be it remembered also, that after severe operations,, antiphlogistic regimen ought ahvays to be conducted with the greatest? caution; for it is probable that a tedious cure, by granulation, may eventually tax the powers of the system to the utmost. And further, niLUch must necessarily depend on the previous health and habits of tha patient. A short time is suflficient for the establishment of adhesion. If it if*' to occur at all, it is certain within a week; three or four days ordinariljl suffice. The cut margins are consolidated, the one with the other; th line of wound is dry, and invested by a thin crust. If some of th sutures have not been previously removed, they should now be take away; their occupation is gone ; their further presence will but invi suppuration and ulceration in the immediate vicinity of each nooss Nature's invariable effort for the extrusion of the foreign substance; an' if such inflammatory excess spread, adlaesion will be undone, and th wound will gape as at first. "When wire sutures, however, are employed, there is neither the sam degree of irritation created, nor the same necessity for early removal o the sutures, unless indeed by original closeness of application they pre vent the escape of fluid from the deeper part of the wound. Some times the Avire sutures may be allowed to remain throughout the whcl process of union, even when this has been a slow process ; thus avoidin the necessity for the application from time to time of jDlasters, and saving the patient much pain which would otherwise have been incum from daily dressing. During the period while union of the wound, i whole or in part, by adhesion may reasonably be anticipated to be i pi'ogress, tlie less movement of the part, either by the patient or by t'