519 BUKNS AND SCALDS. lu general, these various degrees of burn are more or loss blended; the greater including all the lesser. For example, in the centre of a burnt part, where heat has been most intensely applied, there may be the depressed eschar; exterior to that, the skin only in part destroyed ; beyond this, the skiu alive, and about to be actually inflamed ; and, exterior to all, such an amount of injury as will produce but an ery- thema. The most severe examples of the injury are usually those caused by flame, as wlien the clothes have taken fire; for the part is made to contribute towai-ds its own combustion; and this is intense and rapid. And these cases are always formidable, even if no deep destruction of texture have occurred at any part; by reason of the extent of surface afiected, and terror greatly augmenting the shock—circumstances both tending to produce much internal congestion in head and chest—which afterwards reacts unfavourably. Hence prognosis must always be guarded. In considering the agents which usually produce certain degrees of burn or scald, there are exceptions which it is well to recollect; e.g., although boiling water and steam usually confine their effects to the first three degrees of scald, that is only because the application of these agents is usually very temporary. A part may be deeply destroyed by being kept for some seconds in boihng water; and the continuous play of high pressure steam, as it expands into aqueous vapour, will in a very brief space of time destroy not only the surface of the cutis vera, but actually hoil the textures to a considerable depth. As regards prognosis, it is important to remember, that loss of sub- stance often proves more extensive than it at first seemed. A part dies immediately; but another, and sometimes a larger portion, perishes sub- sequently, under the inflammatory process ; the heat was insuflicient for immediate extinction of its vitality, yet lowered this so far as to render it unable to withstand even the ordinary inflammatory change which in- variably ensues. And, thus, the immediate eschar may come to appear insignificant, in comparison with the subsequent slough, and the hiatus left after its separation. In cases suspected to be severe, it is always a favourable sign to find vesications form ; denoting that the part still re- tains at least a certain amount of vitality. Prognosis is further de- pendent, not only on the extent of injury, but on the previous state of the patient's system, and on the nature of the part to which the injury has occurred. Burns are most dangerous on the head, neck and trunk; as also those which afi'ect the genital organs, at a tender or advanced age. The constitutional symptoms have already been noticed. There is first the shock or state of depression, usually accompanied with more or less internal congestion of the brain and its membranes, of the lining membrane of the respiratory tubes, and of the same tissue in the intestinal canal From this condition reaction takes place, of either a sthenic or an asthenic kind ; usually the former, unless the accident be very severe, or the system previously much enfeebled. Then comes inflammatory ever, more or less violent, accompanying the inflammatory process which necessarily ensues in the part. About tliis time—the end of the first, or e begmnmg of the second week—the constitutional symptoms are apt 0 become unpleasantly complicated, by evidences of acute aflection of