505 TREATMENT OF GUNSHOT WOUNDS. flaiiimatoiy fever; gcangrene ; erysipelas ; abscess after abscess, with fresli infliuuniatory fever, probably connected with the lodgment of foreign matter ; dilVuse puruleiit iniiltration ; inflammatory afl;ection of veins, either in the hard or soft tissues, perhaps of the diffuse and suppurative kind; untoward extension or recurrence of sloughing ; hemorrhage on the separation of sloughs, or by subsequent ulceration ; accession of sloughing-phagedtena; non-union of fracture ; necrosis ; caries j exhaus- tion by hectic ; tetanus ; pya3mia. Treatment.—Gimshot wounds are amenable to the rules of treatment adapted to contused and lacerated wounds in general; the leading indica- tions being :—to watch, and if necessary, to expedite disappearance of the shock ; to remove foreign matter ; to re-adjust the parts, and place them in a comfortable and relaxed position ; to moderate the coming in- flammatory attack ; to promote the separation of sloughs ; to favour the contraction and consolidation of the wound ; constitutionally, to moderate the effects of local excitement, in the first instance, and subsequently to support the frame for the perhaps protracted efforts of repair. These accidents, when they threaten to occur, are to be met by the ordinary means. The indications for treatment do not require the extension, dila- tation, or debridement of the wounds which was practised by the older surgeons, any more than the escharotics and boiling oil of a still earlier I date. The wound requires no incision unless for exploration of its track j for the arrest of hemorrhage, for the removal of foreign bodies or frag- ments of bone, for the replacement of herniated internal parts, for the escape of irritating fluids (urine), or of inflammatory products ; in other words, unless we can afford present rehef, or secure future good, no dilatation of the wound should be practised. As to applications to the wound:—dry lint and a bandage, to secure the patient from bleeding, till he reaches his regimental or divisional hospital; then a pledget of lint soaked from time to time in ice-cold water; or if that cannot be had, and the dressing cannot be frequently changed, lint or tow soaked in olive oil should be applied. When the inflammatory process sets in, if attended with much swelling and tension, dilatation of the wound including the wounded fascia should be practised. Then poultices and fomentation will afford most relief, till the sloughs begin to separate ; after which pressure and stimulating lotions should be carefully employed, so as to obtain closure of the sinuses which are apt to form. Should matter, however, collect, then a counter opening must be made in as dependent a position as possible ; wliile rest, good food, stimulants, tonics, change of air, and the other essentials of hygienic treatment are carried out. It is obviously of much importance to ascertain at the outset whether foreign matter has lodged or not. This is effected by gentle yet determined ex- amination of the wound by the finger, and manipulation of the wounded limb ; it being well to place the patient, during such examination, in the position which he occupied at the time of the injury, and then to reason on the most likely course of the bullet. A probe is, it must be remem- bered, of no service at this stage of the wound; affording nothing but con- tusing results; wliile the finger, which can be easily^nti'oduced in the benumbed state of the parts, and without producing more pain, will give most valuable information. If in any exceptional circumstances, how-