879 PHTHISIS LAliYNCIEA. of the case, on account of emergency caused Ly oedema, the tube's dis- continuance is very uncertain; a falling in of the box of the larynx is too probable, as the result of cicatrization ; and, in consequence, perma- nency of the artificial opening may be rendered indispensable. 2. Tubercular Ulceration may attack the windpipe; constituting the true Phthms Laryngea. There is first submucous or mucous tuber- cular formation, which softens, disintegrates, and opens up the membrane in patchy chronic ulceration. The scrofulous cachexy attends ; and too frequently, also, phthisis puhnonalis is co-existent. Although by no means likely to make a satisfactory impression on such a constitutional malady, still the ordinary treatment is to be patiently employed. Tra- cheotomy is certainly not advisable, as a means towards cicatrization and cure; but it may be had recourse to as a mere palliative—a means of protracting existence—when, by the occurrence of oedema, life is threat- ened by suffocation. 3. A diseased staie of the cartilage is not unfrequent, in broken down sj^hilitic habits j associated with chronic abscess and ulceration. In advanced age, the cartilages naturally become ossified, and may necrose. But this which we now allude to is a different affection ; bearing the same analogy to senile degeneration of cartilage, as atheromatous change in the arterial tissue, favourable to aneurism, does to the senile calcareous condition of arteries. The cartilage is thickened, indurated, changed in hue, and partially ossified ; portions die ; suppuration takes place around; the matter bursts into the windpipe, and is expectorated ; a ragged ulce- rated aperture remains ; the diseased portion of cartilage loosens, pro- trudes, and, having been wholly detached, is expectorated; the cavity which held it may then contract and close, along with the ulcerated aper- ture through which it made its escape; or additional suppuration takes place, fi-esh portions become necrosed, and the disease is both aggravated and protracted. In the most favourable point of view, prognosis is un- satisfactory j for cicatrization cannot take place, without entailing such contraction and change of the canal as must seriously and permanently interfere with respiration. Sometimes a dead portion of ossified carti- lage, having been detached, falls downwards; and becoming impacted in a bronchial ramification, leads to a fatal issue, either suddenly by asphyxia, or more remotely tlirough pulmonary disease. Treatment is as in ordinary ulceration of this part, with especial attention to the constitutional vice. And when an emergency, perilling hfe, does occur, by intercurrent oedema of the larynx, tracheotomy is cer- tainly advisable; not with the hope of thorough cure, but in order to avert immediate danger, and perhaps to accelerate cicatrization. If life continue, the tube must be permanently worn; for, under the most favourable circumstances, it is not to be expected, in this affection, that normal calibre and function can be regained. Tracheal Fistula is apt to result from the preceding affection. The abscess connected with the necrosed portion of cartilage may discharge Itself externally, as well as into the windpipe, and a fistulous aperture 18 not unlikely to remain. This may be brought to heal, by the occa- sional use, at long intervals, of heated wire. But let no attempt at closure be made, until wo are certain that the necrosed portion has been