1061 GRAVEL. years ago would inevitably have been allowed to proceed unchecked, until they ended in calculous formation, or at least in the minor evil of gravel. The normal urinary secretion usually yields, as above mentioned, a slight hazy cloud of mucous sediment, Avliich forms its only precipitate in the state of absolute health. This cloud of mucus presents under the microscope only a very few rounded bodies, resembling closely the cells found in pus, with occasionally traces of epithelium cells from the bladder or some other part of the passages. Often, however, these are absent, or nearly so, and the sediment is altogether impalpable ; occasionally, on the other hand, the so-called mucous corpuscles are increased in number, and the mucous cloud wliich contains them is increased in bulk and opacity. This is the first grade of mucous irritation, and is often found in connection with various kinds of saline deposit. Under a further progress of this condition the urine may become highly impregnated with mucus and epithelium ; or the mucous cloud may be supplanted by a distinct deposit of pus. To the test-paper, healthy urine presents a tolerably distinct acid re-action ; this may be feeble, or the urine may even be occasionally neutral, without the presence of any serious derangement ; but any degree of persistent alkalinity must be regarded as distinctly abnormal, and requires correction by treatment, unless in the case of its having been induced by medicine or accidental dietetic conditions, which some- times render the urine temporarily alkaline. According to Dr. Bence Jones, the acidity of the urine undergoes constant changes in amount in healthy persons, according to the condition of digestion ; being invariably greatest immediately before meals, and falling to its minimvim a few hours after breakfast and dinner; appearing therefore to stand in an inverse relation to the acidity of the stomach. The source of the acid reaction of urine is not known with certainty ; it is supposed to be owing not to any free acid, but to the presence of some salt, such as the acid phosphate of soda. The specific gravity of the urine, and the proportion of solid matter contained in it, are likewise subject to considerable variation at different periods. After a meal and towards the close of digestion, the density of the urine (which has been called in these circumstances urina chijli) be- comes greatest, and may exceed 1030, as tested by the urinometer. After drinking largely, on the other hand {urina potus), it may be re- duced almost to the density of water ; while the urine passed in the morning (urina sanguinis), independently of the influence of food or drink, has usually a specific gravity of from 1015 to 1025. The abso- lute quantity of urine passed in twenty-four hours varies, as might be expected, with the amount of drink; and has an inverse relation to the specific gravity, which is commonly high in proportion as the urine is scanty. About a quart (forty ounces) of urine may be assumed as an average quantity for an adult. The principal sediments occurring in the urine, and tending to the formation of calcuH, are as follows :— I si. Deposits of free uric acid, or urates of ammonia, lime, magnesia, and soda {Lithuria); 2d. Deposits of oxalate of lime {Oxaluri^; 'id.