LITIIECTASY. 1104 for lithotomy; that is, wouud of tho membranous portion of the urethra and gradual dilatation of this—for wound of both this and the prostatic portion, dilatation and extraction following immediately. Lithotomy is performed on a small scale ; or a puncture is made in the central space of the perineum, above the anus. The membranous portion of the urethra is reached and opened as in the Median operation. iS^o attempt is then made to reach the bladder and stone by the finger, but the wound is occupied by sponge-tent, or by Arnott's fluid dilator; and thereby dilatation is effected more or less rapidly. In the course of twenty-four hours, the space may be expected to be suitable for the introduction of instruments, and for removal of a small stone—the neck of the bladder being left undivided, and the great hazard by infiltration being almost certainly avoided.* But the manifest objection to this proceeding is its slowness and uncertainty. Under tedious and painful dilatation the patient is very liable to suffer serious irritation, both mental and bodily; and a susceptible frame may be irreparably injured thereby. Also, after the allotted period of painful probation has passed, the space may be found, insufficient; the dilator has to be resumed, or the knife is em- jDloyed; and, in any way, danger is incurred. Further experience is yet required, ere the merits of this operation can be finally determined. But at present one naturally inclines to think, that it can be applicable only to small stones ; and that these may be better dealt with by litho- tripsy. Palliation of Vesical Calculus. We are called upon to palliate the symptoms of stone, irrespective of any operation, when the patient refuses to submit to this, or when the circumstances of the case obviously contra-indicate its performance. If the patient is far advanced in years, and suffers comparatively httle from the stone, we decline to operate. When the patient is aged, and afflicted with great enlargement of the prostate—perhaps malignant— we cannot expect a successful issue; and the operation can scarcely he looked upon as a likely means towards Euthanasia. When the kidneys evince organic disease, by albuminuria, renal pain, constitutional dis- order, purulent urine, etc., we cannot but fear that the operation wiU cause renal aggravation and death. In these cases, therefore, and such hke, we content ourselves with palliating what we cannot cure. All violence and imprudence in exercise and regimen are avoided; the bowels are gently regulated; by alkaUne or acid remedies internally, the condition of the urine and of the bladder is hoped to be amended ; and by opiates, by the mouth or anus, pain is assuaged. When the phosphatic diathesis is not strongly marked, nothing proves more efficacious than weak doses of the alkaline carbonates much diluted. Urethral Calculus. Calculus in the urethra is sometimes original; foreign matter having been in some way introduced from without, and calculous deposit con- creting on this as a nucleus. Much more frequently, liowever, it is * Willis on Stone, p. 160.