PASSIVE CONGESTION. 75 or orc^anic disease of tlie liver may seriously retard its venous flow- either" circumstance frequently occurring as the more immediate cause of passive congestion, with its troublesome consequences, m the serous ^^^^^BesuUs—l Eesolution may take place, and is to be hoped for; but, at best it is a tardy process, and often incomplete. 2. Hemorrhage is not so Hkely to occur as in the active form; and when it does, it is of an opposite character—still passive; venous, dark coloured, in a quiet slow stream; but this stream, simply by being gentle and furtive, yet constant may lead to serious loss of blood. Its continuance can scarcely be expected to benefit the part, and it cannot fail to hurt the system, abeady weak and perhaps exsanguine; it may usually be arrested, therefore, with but little ceremony or precaution—a practice very different from what is appHcable to a similar event in the active form. 3. Serous effusion is the characteristic result of passive congestion; occurring slowly and gradually, it may be, yet accumulating in large quantity by continuance; more aqueous, by containing much less albumen and fibrin, than the similar effusion of the active form; and most remarkably less amenable to spontaneous absorption. It may take place into a serous or synovial cavity, constituting a dropsy; or into the parenchyma of a part, forming cedematous swelling. Treatment.—1. Manifestly the first indication is to remove the cause ^whether that be ligature, feeculent accumulation, unfavourable position, or structural change of some internal organ. The last mentioned is, for obvious reasons, often accomplished with difficulty, if at aU. 2. An obvious cause having been removed, it is well to disburthen somewhat the over-distended vessels, as the second step towards their reduction to a normal state. Punctures are apphcable to the ordinary surface when thus affected ; scarifications to mucous membrane. Serous effusion is at the same time permitted to escape, and thus the paren- chyma is also relieved. In affection of deeply-seated parts, however, we have to rest satisfied with less direct, and probably less efficient means of obtaining this object—a derivant, instead of a directly evacuant effect. Blood is to be coaxed from the part—not so readily as in the active form of congestion—by dry cupping, sinapisms, or other simple counter- irritants ; or blood may be actually drawn from the part's vicinity, in small quantity, by leeches or cupping. By either procedure—the latter the more likely perhaps—derivation is to be expected, so as to relieve, to a certain extent, the gorged and indolent vessels of the congested part. 3. The third indication—after having obtained as much relief of the part as we can—is to stimulate the nutritive activity of the part and its blood-vessels to resumption of their wonted condition and tone ; so as to prevent further serous effusion, and remove that which has already taken place. Friction, at first gentle, and gradually increasing in vigour ; pressure, uniformly applied, and also at first used gently—are obvious means of obtaining fulfilment of this indication. They may be happily combined; the one mechanically favouring retarded venous return, and indeed accelerating the general circulation of the part; the other mechanically promoting restoration of normal calibre to the blood-vessels ; both vitally arousing the dormant energies of the part, as regards nutrition