397 rROGllESS OF ANEURISM. interposing itself between the cyst and the main arterial impulse, and thereby, to some extent, moderating the expansion of the aneurism. As the tumour enlarges, the adjacent parts, more especially those in the direction of the principal increase, are displaced; and, as we have already seen, they may have important functions disturbed. And there is not only displacement and interruption of function ; change of structure is induced. Part of the superimposed textures may become incorporated with the cyst; part is removed by absorption. Fibrous texture resists long; and may determine the increase in a lateral direction ; while, by its unaccommodating resistance to the impulse beneath, much local pain, followed by constitutional disturbance, may result. Bone is more com- pliant ; it cannot yield like the soft textures by elasticity; but it loses substance at the point compressed, by continuous absorption. Between the bone so affected and the aneiuismal contents, there may be interposed the ordinary cyst, more or less attenuated by pressure : or that portion of the cyst may have been wholly removed, and its place occupied by the bone itself—the wave of blood washing the bare cancellated texture, without even a coagulum interposed. As thus the tumour enlarges, in spite of resistance from superimposed parts—impulse and expansion from within proving paramount—the symp- toms are not merely local j besides local pain, numbness, oedema, and more or less disturbance of function, according to the nature of the parts com- pressed, and the degree of their compression, the system is sooner or later involved in obvious irritation. This is to some extent due, and in very large aneurisms undoubtedly due, to the quantity of blood contained within the sac, and which, although retaining its vitality, is virtually cut off from and lost to the system at large. The stomach and digestion fail, sleep is disturbed, strength and flesh decline, the pulse becomes weak and frequent; in fact, the ordinary symp- toms of constitutional irritation and ansemia are established—more or less urgent, in proportion to the resistance which is afforded, the import- ance of the parts to Avhich pressure is applied, the size of the aneurismal sac, and the conse- quent quantity of its contents. By such general disorder the patient may be carried away—slowly exhausted. Fig. i7i. If not, a great crisis is approached : the tumour having reached the integumental surface, or the border of a mucous canal, or a serous cavity.^ The last intervening texture gives way; and then the fatal result is seldom long delayed. The opening is effected in different ways. 1. On the surface, the same occurs as with abscess ; a portion of the skui IS attenuated, sloughs, and separates. 2. In a mucous canal, the aperture is made by continuous removal of tissue at the part most com- . Fig. 171. Aneurism of tho descending aorta ; burst. The patient died suddenly, m conscfiuence.