FRACTUIIES. 531 elongated; much more frequently it is shortened; the lower extremity, in fracture at the femur, may be abbreviated to the extent of two inches or more. Voluntary motion is nmch abridged; in many cases the patient, of himself, can move the injured limb little if at all. Involun- tary motion, on the other hand, is much increased; that is to say, the surgeon can, though not without inflicting much pain, move the limb in directions and to an extent of which it was previously incapable. And, at the site of fracture, the slightest examination usually makes it abun- dantly plain that the part is remarkably and preternaturally mobile. Pain is great and constant; and ever and anon liable to sudden exacer- bation, from spasmodic twitchings of the muscles implicated in the injury, whereby the bones are displaced anew, and the soft parts irritated and torn. If either fragment come in contact with nervous trunks, compressing, puncturing, or in any way irritating these, the pain is likely to prove extreme. Swelling invariably occurs in cases of fracture, and is of tliree kinds. 1. The displacement and overlapping of the fractured ends produce a greater or less enlargement of the part, immediately after infliction of the injury. And if muscles be relaxed by the displacement, the bulging into which they are consequently thrown will contribute to the imme- diate swelling. 2. The first swelling is increased by extravasation of blood; which inevitably follows solution of continuity in the bone, and coexistent laceration of the soft parts. If any considerable vessel have been injured, this kind of swelling may prove very great; partly by blood accumulating around the fracture, partly by its being infiltrated into the muscles and other surrounding tissues. 3. The second swell- ing, in its turn, is followed and modified by that which attends on the inflammatory process ; beginning to form after the lapse of some hours. The tissues then become infiltrated; partly by serum, partly by plastic product. Eut the peculiar and diagnostic sign of fracture, is what is termed Crepitus; a sensation of rubbing, grating, and crackling, which is im- parted to the hand of the surgeon, when the fragments are moved one upon the other, their broken surfaces being in contact. "When there is no great displacement, the fractured ends remaining partly in apposition, this crepitus may be felt on the slightest movement of the Hmb ; and often both the patient and his attendant are made very plainly aware of its existence, by the involuntary movements which spasm of the muscles from time to time occasions. But when the fracture is transverse, the displacement great, and the fragments completely overlapping, crepitus 18 not so easily felt. Eeduction of the separated fragments must be effected in the first instance, in order that the broken surfaces may be brought in contact with each other; and then, by movement, the desired sign will be plainly enough emitted. In fracture of the neck of the lemur, for example, rotation of the Hmb will be quite unattended with crepitus, so long as the lower fragment is drawn upwards and inwards, and lies close to the brim of the acetabulum, free from the head of the "one; but so soon as, by extension, normal length of the limb has been restored, crepitus will be produced by but very slight movement. Certain fractures, termed Impacted, rarely afl'ord crepitus. One