1081 SOUNDING. uiou use, is of steel, of medium size, furnished with a broad and smooth steel handle, and straight till within two inches of the extremity— where it is sharply curved. Of steel, and broad in the handle, so that its impingement on the calculus naay be the more distinctly felt; and of a sharp, short curve at its end, so that the straight por- tion being in the urethra, while the whole of the curve is within the bladder, the end may be moved about in that viscus freely, and in all directions; of medium size— not so large as to be grasped tightly by the urethra, and so be limited in its move- ments—and yet large enough to afford a steady grasp to the operator, with surface enough for readily striking the stone. The bladder should be as much distended by retained urine as the patient can conveniently bear; so as to afford room for the instrument's play. The patient is placed recumbent; and, the sound having been gently introduced, the convexity of its curve is pressed in the direction of the ordi- nary site of stone—at the most dependent part of the bladder, be- hind the prostate. There, a hard substance being felt, the instrument is moved sharply, with a gentle striking movement; and, in addition to the rub which was at first conveyed to the operator's hand, a distinct click will be heard, while a more defined and vivid impression of im- pingement on a foreign body will be felt. And without this combined indication of touch and hearing, the surgeon should never be satisfied of the existence of stone. If nothing be found in the ordinary site, the instrument's point must then be moved carefully and inquiringly in every direction ; groping at first, as a probe ; and, on finding resistance, moved ■with a sharp yet gentle stroke. Of four sources of fallacy we must be constantly on our guard ; the rub of the end of the sound on fasciculi of the bladder ;* the grating of it on calculous matter entangled in the mucous lining; the rub of a rough and enlarged prostate ; and the rub and grating of calculous matter in the prostatic or membranous portions of the uretlira. If nothing is found in the ordinary site and in the ordi- nary way, posture is changed, and the search renewed ; first in the erect posture, and then with the patient stooping much forward. The space above the pubes, in the latter position, is particularly explored. The stethoscope may possibly be of service, applied over the region of the bladder ; but it is difiicult to repress the thought, that wherever a stone actually is, the signs emitted by the sound's use will be sufficiently dis- tinct without the aid of mediate auscultation. Change of posture hav- ing failed to detect stone, change in the state of the bladder may next * In using the catheter for retention of urine in the aged, a fasciculated portion of the thickened bladder sometimes comes suddenly in contact with the end of the instrument, interrupting the urine's flow, and giving the sensation of sti-oke or rub to the operator's hand. This, to the unwary, may simulate the presence of stone ; and lias to be guarded against accordingly,—Fic^e Adams on Diseases of tlie Prostate, pp. 76, 77. Fig. 331. Sounding. The stone in its ordinary position.