930 DISLOCATION OF THE LATISSIMUS DOIISI MUSCLE. always caused by direct violence applied to tlie part. But it may abso bo produced gradually, as a consequence of the change in position of parts which attends on rotation and curvature of the spinal column. AVhen caused by accident, the head of the bone, driven according to the direction of the force, may pass directly backwards, or a little downwards, or slightly upwards. The sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles of the aifected side are torn, and the trachea is more or less compressed and displaced towards the opposite side. The obvious displacement of the head of the bone, elevation of the shoulder, impeded respiration and interference with the circulation of the head and upper extremity upon the affected side, serve sulFiciently to indicate what has occurred. To effect reduction, let an assistant grasp both shoulders, and, placing his Icuee between, suddenly bend them back^vards toward each other; while the surgeon in front pulls forward the end of the bone. For retention it is necessary to remove the shoulder from the side; and this may be done by placing a large pad in the axilla, and binding down the lower end of the humerus. In an example of pathological dislocation de- pendent on spinal curvature, it was found impossible to retain the end of the bone in its proper place ; and the distress occasioned by its back- ward pressure proved so great as to lead to extirpation of the offending part.* 2. The Acromial Extremity is not unfrequently displaced ujnoards over the acromion process, by falls on the shoulder; the amount of de- formity and inconvenience, in ordinary instances, being proportioned to the degree of laceration of the capsular ligaments. In cases of severe accident and extreme displacement, the coraco-clavicular ligaments must also suffer to some extent. The shoulder is depressed; and the end of the clavicle is seen and felt rising over the spine of the scapula, to the extent of from half an inch to an inch, Reduction is effected by repres- sion upon the displaced part of the bone, along with elevation and retrac- tion of the shoulder; consequently the same treatment is necessary as for fractured clavicle ; but maintained with unusual accuracy, as well as for an unusual length of time—the bone being so liable to re-displace- ment, as hardly to be kept in situ, while consolidation of the ligamentous apparatus is apt to prove both tardy and imperfect. Dislocation of the Acromial end of the clavicle doivnwards beneath the acromion, and also under the cnracoid process, has been described by some authors. The former may possibly happen from direct violence, but must be an exceedingly rare accident; how the latter injur}' can ever occur does not seem very obvious. Dislocation of the Latwsimus Dorsi Muscle—Paralysis of the BJiomhoids. Young men who use the arms violently in their habitual occupations, occasionally suffer from this accident; and sometimes it occurs in chil- dren of a weak and relaxed habit, in whom it has been attributed to rapid circumduction of the arm, as in throwing stones, etc. Tlie lower angle of the scapula escapes from beneath the latissinius doisi, cansuig projection of the bone, particularly when the arm is elevated or alMluctccl * A. CoorER on Dislocations, last edition, p. 351.