654 ENCYSTED TUMOURS. Wlion matter has formed, and bulges tlie margin of the hd, a puncturi' should be made at the apex of tlie swelling, Ibr efficient discharge ; ajid then water-dressing is again applied. If a chronic hardness shoulii threaten to remain, discussion of this will be promoted by peucilhng th(; part lightly over with a solution of iodine, or of nitrate of silver; oi the offending accumulation of the follicle may be evacuated by puncture- on either the inner or outer side of the cartilage, according to the aspect on which the affected follicle is situated. An inflammatory swelling, similar to the true hordeolum, may form in the ordinary areolar tissue of the eyelid.; resembling a small furun- culus. It is amenable to ordinary treatment. Small, hard swellings, of a whitish colour, very superficial, painless, and almost stationary, occasionally form beneath the integument of th eyelid. According to their size, they are termed either Grando oi Milium; according as they most resemble a hail-stone or a millet-seed. Cau.sing deformity, they require removal. A scratch is made through the thin cuticle stretched over them, and the white pearly-looking sub- stance is squeezed out. They are in fact encysted tumours on a very small scale. No escharotic is necessary. The wound is painless, scarcely bleeds, and heals simply. "Warts sometimes form on the eyelids. They should be taken awa" by scissors. Ligature and caustic cause pain, and the latter may produ deformity, tlncysted Tumours of tlie Eyelids. Encysted tumours are of frequent occurrence in this situation; mo" especially in the upper lid. They are usually of small size; the conten are clear and glairy ; the cyst is extreme! delicate. Their original site is subcutaneous, o the external aspect of the tarsal cartilage ; bu as they enlarge, the cartilage becomes thinne and the cyst bulges the mucous membran inwards. The majority of the patients are o the female sex. The tumours are rarely single and this serves to explain the supposed repro duction of the cyst in some cases where th operation has been effectually performed Eemoval by regular dissection is impossible ; and though it may b( tempting to one who is inexperienced, need not be attempted ; the cyst m too delicate, and always adheres to the tarsal cartUage. For the sam' reason, incision, with evulsion of the cyst, is inapplicable. It is sufficienl to incise the part from the inner aspect of the lid, to squeeze out the eoa tents, and with the point of a probe to disturb and break up the tende cyst from day to day, so as to prevent too speedy healing of the opening and recollection of the fluid. In some cases it has been recommende to apply nitrate of silver on the end of a probe, after the bleeding h ceased, so as to ensure the cyst's destruction, and consequent non-repr Fig. 238. Encysted tumour of the lower eyelid. Tlie lid everted, the projectioi resembles the condition described in the text, when the sac has spontaneously givei way.