THE INDOLENT SORE. 119 cess, attended Ly plastic results. Thus granulation succeeds; and the raw surface becoming continuous with the surrounding integument, which has regained its normal thickness and pliancy, the conditions requisite for cicatrization are gi-adually approached. The stimulus continues to act on both skin and sore ; causing absorption in the one, and maintaining vigour in the other. As for- merly explained, pressure, in a slight dose, excites absorption chiefly ; in a greater it arouses the inflammatory process of a sthenic kind and moderate degree; while a still larger dose reaches the inflammatory acme of suppuration and ulceration. Here the same dose is applied to both margins and sore ; but the latter is less tolerant than the former; and in regard to the latter the same pressure is practically equal to a liigher dose than that which is operating on the margin. Besides, the mechanical effect of the circular band is to draw to- gether the sound parts ; and thus greatly to favour not the least import- ant portion of the cicatrizing process—namely, centripetal movement of the original tissues. Sometimes, when the edges are very high, and the sore deep and small, the plaster reaches only the margins at first; the raw surface escaping by their interposition, A certain amount of salutary stimulus is nevertheless conveyed to the latter; and, on subsidence of the skin, pressure comes to act on both in the usual manner. To expedite matters, it may be well sometimes to dissect off the hardened cuticle, painlessly, as one would a corn. All risk of strangulation of the limb may be prevented by a very simple proceeding; making a section of the mass of plaster, after it has firmed on the part, on a grooved director introduced at the point opposite to the sore. While this is sufficient to reheve constriction, and to moderate pressure, the beneficial effects of the latter are not foregone ; and besides, resilience of the plaster, to the opposite point from that which is cut, plainly augments the important centripetal action of the integument and subcu- taneous areolar tissue around the sore. This modification, therefore, appa- rently of a trifling nature, may be in truth an important addition to the manipulation ; not always necessary; but useful in those cases in which intolerance of the ordinary pressure may in some degree exist. The strap, having been firmly applied, is allowed a few minutes to consolidate, and tightly to embrace the Hmb at all points ; and then the section is made. Another advantage of this second mode of treatment is, that although more progress is likely to be made in the recumbent posture, yet it is not essential that this should be uniformly maintained. For a few hours after adjustment of the dressing, rest is indispensable ; but afterwards the erect posture may be resumed, and wonted avocations therewith—a point often of much consequence to the patient. Such resumption may delay the cure, but will not always prevent it. Throughout the cure, the system is duly attended to. The diet is generous ; and it may be that tonics, and even stimuH, become expedient. For Httle good can be expected to follow the most skilful treatment of the pait, unless the general frame be provided with sufficient power to maintain the work of repair. Among other internal stimuli, turpentine has been found very useful. And, in the opinion of some, smaU doses of