REMOVAL OF TUMOUllS. 197 admit of free cutting around tlie tumour, refrain from operation altogether. And, in all practicable and expedient cases, cut away from the tumour rather than on it. For, as already stated, unless a border of apparently sound texture be taken away, along Avith the tumour, we can never be certain but that many germs of the disease are left behind, rendering re- production inevitable. The operator should never be in a hurry. If hemorrhage is trouble- some, it can always be restrained either by pressure or by ligature. Hasty play of the knife, in the case of a simple tumour, may endanger important parts ; which ought to have remained untouched. In the case of a mahgnant formation, there is not only the same danger, but a greater; there is the risk of leaving a portion of the morbid structure unremoved. In any operation, haste is inexpedient; here it is highly culpable. The Imife should proceed leisurely ; following the eye and finger, if need be. And, to make certain of entire removal, the extir- pated part should be carefully examined at its cut margin—as well as the surface of the remaining wound—to see that no suspicious texture has been cut through, instead of having been cut away. If an unsatisfactory portion be detected, this must at once be carefully dissected out; and, not until thus assurance has been made doubly sure, should coaptation be effected. Operatiug in the axilla, or at the lower part of the neck, the larger veins, should be interfered with as little as possible ; tension of vascular parts, previous to incision, should be avoided ; and the other means should be taken, which tend to obviate the accidental entrance of air into the veins. It is dming the dissection of deeply-seated tumours, in such localities, that this casualty is most liable to occur. Some pendulous tumours, of a narrow pedicle—as certain of the adipose—enlarge greatly in their free portion, and cover a large extent of surface. It is well, in such circumstances, first to amputate this pedicle, on a level with the surrounding sldn; in order thereby to facili- tate extirpation of the remainder. Pendulous tumours, sometimes, by their own weight, withdraw their deep attachments—which become more and more superficial; and in such cases, artificial traction may be made to assist the natural tendency—rendering the subsequent operation com- paratively easy and safe. Deep walls of fat are inimical to adhesion of a wound. Therefore, in operating on subjects of obesity, it is advisable to remove a suitable por- tion of the subcutaneous fatty texture along with the tumour, by inclining the knife to the required extent. In extirpating malignant tumours, especially the scirrhous, we have to avoid both too sparing and too free removal of the integument. If over-anxious to have an easily coaptated wound, we may spare skin already involved; rendering reproduction certain. And, on the other hand, if much skin be sacrificed, reproduction will also be favoured; by tightness and irritability of the cicatrix. When in doubt, it is well to err on the safer side ; making every consideration secondary to thorough removal of the diseased parts. When a large and deeply-seated tumour involves difficult and danger- ous dissection, this may be facilitated T)y removal of the principal part of