AMAUROSIS. 712 posuro to nmch light and heat, liy intemperance, by gout—by, in short whatever tends to cause determination of blood to the head. Sometimes' on the contrary, amaurosis is caused by want of the circulating fluid m thf' eye or in the head ; as in cases of anaemia from prolonged lactation, ])ro- fuse nterine discharge, or the like. "Wounds of the supraorbital brauche« of the fifth nerve have often been followed by the disease. The symptoms are :—impairment of vision, Avhich may be sudden, or gradual and increasing; at first there is perhaps mere obscuration ofj sight, as if every object was seen through a mist, but this soon gives! place to thorough perversion of the function ; objects are often seem of erroneous proportion and colour. In the congestive and inflammatory- forms, where the retina and choroid are aff'ected, more or less pain is complained of. At first, there maybe intolerance of light; but ulti-^g mately a glare is borne with impunity, or is rather desired than otherwise. Ocular spectra are frequently seen, either constantly or from time to time, especially after exertion of the eye ; they may be dark or luminoog,4j-' massy or scintillated, steady or flickering. Objects may appear doubled (Diplopia), or only half, or a small portion of an object may be visible (Hemiopia). The pupil is sometimes dilated (Mydriasis). The iris is sluggish, and ultimately motionless ; the eye has a vacant staring expres- sion ; and the patient acquires a peculiar, uncertain gait. Sometimes the eyeball has a tremulous or oscillatory motion. In such cases the third nerve will probably be found afiected from the same cause as has pro- duced the amaurotic symptoms ; and if the paralysis becomes complete, Luscitas, as well as the dilated pupil, will be present. Often there is no fixed or decided pain in the part; but rather a sensation of tension and uneasiness. On the whole, the ordinary and characteristic s^'mptonis are, the impairment and perversion of vision, the ocular spectra, and the. absence of any appearance of disease of the globe. Having concluded, after careful examination of both ejes, the dimness of vision is not due to any change in the transparency ofi the media of the globe—that in other words the cornea, the aqueot humour, and the lens, are perfectly healthy—the pupil should be dilat with atropine, so as to enable us to decide whether the symptoms due to changes in the vitreous humour, retina, choroid, or optic entranc Should we find structural alterations of these textures, then the disease is no longer merely amaurosis, a disease of undefined site, but has sj definite lesion, which accounts for the symptoms, and which experience enables us to recognise as due to changes which are or are not capabW of being removed, or beneficially affected by treatment. In this ■way both diagnosis and prognosis is materially assisted ; and if more casesMij. of amaurosis are not cured, at least much unnecessary treatment haajj^ been avoided, since the introduction of the ophthalmoscope. A bne?iH|^ enumeration of the morbid appearances observed in such cases is our space admits of. In the vitreotis humour particles like soot seeffj^ suspended in its substance, and float about, as if loosely attached, wittj every movement of the globe. In the reiina, white patches and yellowisr white spots are frequently observed ; the former crcscentic in outhiie, an«- surrounding the optic entrance, or irregular in form ; sometimes of a dea* white hue and devoid of vessels ; at other times, from effusion beneath it