718 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. acute inflammatory change is set up, or chronic disorganization of the J organ ensues ; if the vitreous humour escape in quantity during the operation, or the lens pass backwards into the vitreous humour instead II of escaping—the eye will in all probability be lost irretrievably. Certain favourable circumstances lead to the choice of extraction. The cornea should be sound, the anterior chamber of proper size, the iris mobile and non-adherent, the globe prominent and steady, the cataract hard. The patient should be in good health; neither plethoric nor weak; so blind of both eyes as to be unable to guide himself in walking, without the risk of running against objects; capable of self-control, and of maintaining the supine posture; free from fatty disease of the heart, diabetes, cough, sneezing, and asthmatic ailments. The pupil should not be dilated, otherwise escape of the vitreous humour is favoured. Some ophthalmic surgeons, however, prefer to run this hazard, on accoimt of the undoubted facility which the dilated condition of the pupil affords, for making the section without the risk I of the occurrence of prolapse of the iris, and its division by the knife, i The patient, in a recumbent posture, is placed before a steady light, I but with his head slightly inclined from it. The surgeon, holding thei knife in his right hand, should be placed either in front or behind,! according to the eye which is to be operated on; unless, indeed, he bei ambidextrous, when he should always sit behind, and thus himselflj control the upper lid. An assistant now opens one lid with his forerj and middle fingers, taking care to secure it by the margin, so as to pre-J vent this from becoming everted; the surgeon then opens the other eyeli^ and steadies the globe, by the fingers of his left hand, applied opposit to the point of puncture ; or he secures the globe from rolling by pinching up the conjunctiva in a pair of artery forceps, which he either hold himself or commits to the charge of his assistant, who should remove them just as the section is completed. The section may be superior ot inferior, but the former should always be preferred. The best knife for the purpose is the triangular one, known as Beer's,1 or some of its modifications Fig. 260. — —Sichel's or Bowman's - pattern being most suitd able. It should be heldj tightly between the thumhi and points of the fore ano middle fingers, the ring and little fingers resting upon the cheek. Thd flat edge of the point is first made to touch the cornea gently, in ordei to reassure the patient, and secure steadiness of the organ ; it is theij entered at about a line from the corneal margin, and passed into thiJ anterior chamber in a perpendicular direction, lest separation of thcj corneal laminae should take place from the knife getting between thenia Penetration having been effected, the direction is changed, and madt parallel to the surface of the iris; the knife is then carried steadiljil and without lateral deflexion, across the anterior chamber, the poia^ emerging at a spot directly corresponding to that of its entrance; an»| the steady advance of the instrument is continued, until section of thi Fig. 260. Extraction. The kuifo cutting througli.