811 STllICTURE OF THE CESOPHAGUS. the upper part of the wsopliagus, its presence can usually he detected hy examination of the parts, with the fingers pressed deeply towards the vertchK^i in the hollow of the anterior triangle of the neck, while the patient's head is hent forwards. The symptoms are, great pain m the affected part, aggravated by deglutition and pressure, great and increas- in<^ difficulty in swallowing, with the expectoration of foetid, copious, bloody discharge ; as the affection advances, gradual wasting of the frame, partly by inanition, partly by progress of the mahgnant cachexy. "When the strictiu-e is situated low down, if the saliva has been swallowed, or the patient takes a drink of water, or swallows morsel after morsel of food, gradual accumulation takes place; and when the gullet can contain no more, the whole that has been SAvallowed becomes again ejected, not with any violent effort at retching, but hy a gradual peristaltic action, which only ceases when the whole has been discharged. When the stricture is tight, and of con- siderable duration, the tube usually becomes dilated above the constricted part, forming a pouch in which food accumulates ; while from increased functional effort the constric- tors of the pharynx become hypertrophied, and the upper cornua of the thyroid carti- lage closely approximated.* Above the stricture, too, ulceration is apt to take place ; which, though not necessarily malignant, is nevertheless in simple cases very intractable, and most inconveniently complicates the case. Stricture of the oesophagus is apt to be simu- lated by cancerous affections of the stomach about its cardiac orifice, but can be distinguished by the latter affection being accompanied with, true vomiting—not mere peristaltic expulsion—and by the ease with wlrich a full-sized oesophagus bougie can be passed into the stomach without arrest. (3.) Extrinsic Compression of the CEsopJiagus as a cause of Constriction. —In the examination of cases of constriction of the oesophagus occurring witliin the upper thoracic portion of the canal, its relation to the arch of the aorta should be kept in view as a possible cause of the symptoms of obstruction, both to deglutition and to the passage of instruments. For the careless introduction of a probang or bougie might, with very little force, rapture the thin partition whicli separates the canal from the sac of the aneurism, and thus induce rapidly fatal results. Tlic simple stricture is treated by dilatation ; and this should be re- sorted to as soon as possible, so as to prevent the induction of an ap- proach to inanition, or the occurrence of dilatation and iilceration of the gullet above the seat of stricture. A probang—a rounded piece of whale- * Lancet, No. 1209, p. 483. Fig. 292. Fig. 292. StTicturp of the gullet, at its most ordinary site. A bongic sliowii intro- duced l)y the month.