994 IlETllO-UTERINE SANGUINEOUS TUMOURS. attention to the general health, many formidable accumulations satisfac- torily disappear; perhaps leading an inexperienced observer to suppope that an ovarian or other tumour has been discussed. AVhen matter has formed, it should be early evacuated, by moans of the bistoury or trocai-, at the point which circumstances may indicate as most suitable; by the vagina, by the rectum, or through the abdominal walls. Retro-uterine Sanguineous Tumours. There is another class of sweUings in this situation, which may lie mistaken for the inflammatory pelvic tumour, in the female. They are caused by extravasation of blood into the sub-peritoneal areolar tissue of the cul de sac between the uterus and rectum; and in their pathology resemble the thrombus, which is not unfi-equently found situated in tlie vagina or vulva. The affection may, in fact, be described as a thrombus of the roof of the vagina. The blood is infiltrated into the areolar tissue, around the cervix uteri, and may spread thence into the areolar tissue surrounding the rectum, or into that involved between the folds of the broad ligaments. These tumours are liable to occur chiefly in cases where there is much venous congestion, and especially if there is a varicose and diseased con- dition of the vessels. They are caused by powerful straining efforts, as in labour, venereal excesses, etc. They may also, as M. Huguier points out, be produced by escape of blood from the uterus when over-distended by retained menstrual secretion. On examination, the roof of the vagina will present a hard resisting surface, without pain on pressure ; or, if recent, tender to the touch in a much less degree than the real inflammatory pelvic tumour. The uterus will be found generally somewhat elevated, and. pressed to the pubes. If they are small, these tumoiu's require no special treatment. Eest in the recumbent position, and the antiphlogistic regimen, are necessary as precautionary measures. If the extravasation is very extensive, there will be constitutional disturbance; and local excitement may be pro- duced, perhaps terminating even in suppuration. In this case treatment must be conducted as in the common inflammatory pelvic tumour. The evacuating incision should be free; and the putrescent state of the in- terior of the sac, which usually occurs, should be corrected by frequent cleansing of the interior by injecting tepid water, and dilute solution of permanganate of potash. Ovarian Droiosy and Tumours. Of abdominal growths, the ovarian are those which most attract the attention of the surgeon. Occasionally fibrous tumours, or masses of the different forms of the ordinary malignant tumours, are found affecting the ovary, either alone or in combination with the cystic disease of the organ— which latter affection far surpasses all others in the frequency of its occur- rence, and is generally known as ovarian droi^sy. These cystic tumours are multilocular more frequently than monolocular. They may occur only on one side, or on both at the same time; they may be attached by