592 WOUNDS OF THE SCALP. inflammatory process in tlie injured part. On this ground alone, rest and quietude, antiphlogistic regimen, and perhaps depletion, are expe- dient. But the necessity for recourse to such precautions becomes still more apparent, when it is remembered tliat tlie brain, in all cases of severe bruise of the scalp, must have suffered more or less by concussion, and has to be protected from the consequences. When all risk of inflammatory accession has passed, and swelliiv has not yet disappeared, absorption may be hastened by discutient measures. The part may be kept wet with a solution of the muriate of ammonia, or with a weak dilution in water of the tincture of arnica; afterwards friction may be used, and, if need be, blistering with pressure. But in some cases, after montlis and even years, a hard swelling remains occupying the site of the original injury, and is apparently due to thickening of the pericranium. Bloody tumom-s, of the foregoing nature, not unfrequently form on the presenting parts of the heads of children, newly born; especially if ■ the labour have been tedious, or the pains very violent. This affection i is designated by obstetricians Cephalhcematoma; while simple bloody infiltration of the presenting part of the scalp is termed the caput succe- ■ daneum. In the commonest form of Cephalhasmatoma, the subpericraniaV, the tumour becomes surrounded at the base by an osseous ring, and the 3 pericranium, too, is sometimes the seat of osseous formation, so as to be.' felt crackling over the contained blood. TMs blood disappearing, thej ossified pericranium approaches the bone, and unites with its rough and! bare surface, causing slight thickening of the bone at that part. The? possibility of such morbid changes must be borne in mind, in making medico-legal examinations of bodies of children which, from their size, have probably been still-born, and which, before examination, hav undergone partial or complete mummification—lest the bloody crust 0 the cranium should lead to the supposition that violence had bee' inflicted. Wounds of the Scalp. Simple incised wounds of the scalp are apt to prove troublesome b bleeding. The arterial point or points may be exposed, and secured b ligature. But this is one of the situations in which pressure by mean of iDads of lint, retained in situ over the bleeding point, by means of a few turns of a bandage, may advantageously be substituted for the use 0' the ligature. The firm surface of the cranium against which the pressui is effected, the difficulty, nay, oftimes the impossibility, of securing th vessels by ligature, the approximation of the edges of the woimd whic the judicious application of pads of lint usually enables us to effect, thn preventing the necessity for sutures, will explain satisfactorily thi preference of pressure. When the bleeding, however, has spontaneous!: ceased, and the wound gapes, or in any circiimstances where stitch seem desirable, experience shews that the use of silver wire as a sut' is free from the objection formerly urged against their use in the dens textures of the scalp, as liable to prove the exciting cause of cry^* pelas. The subsequent management is such as is ordinarily adopte for securing adhesion. One simple pi-ecaution should never be omittet.