13G4 EXCISION AND AMPUTATION OF THE SCAPULA, Aftor cicatrization, tlio stump requires artificial protection ; otherwise the prominent acromion is apt to sustain injury. Excision and Amputation of the Scapula. The scapula may require removal, either with the arm or by itself Portions of this bone have frequently been removed on account of tumours (Haymann, Liston, Jansen, Luke, Syme, WUtzer, Testor, Travers). The scapula has also been excised, in part or entire, or even with a por- tion of the clavicle, in cases where the arm had been previously ampu- tated (Massey, Eigaud, Fergusson). Complete resection, leaving the arm, has twice been practised by Mr. Syme; first, in the case of an elderly female with osteo-aneurism of the scapula ; secondly, in the case of a man in whom he had previously excised the head of the humerus on account of medullary disease. The incisions required may be either of a T or -f form. In the former, the long incision should extend from the acromio-clavicular articulation to the inferior angle of the scapula ; the short one from the centre of the latter to the posterior superior angle, or border of the bone. In the crucial form of operation, the second incision just described is extended, not merely to the long wound first made, but across it to the border of the axilla. The flaps formed in either method are dissected off the surface of the tumour; the acromio-clavicular articulation is opened, and the coraco-clavicular ligaments cut through; or the clavicle is divided by bone-pHers on the sternal side of the insertion of those ligaments. Disarticulation of the scapulo-humeral joint is then effected, and the long head of the biceps cut through. The muscular attachments of the vertebral margin of the bone are next severed, the bone turned outwards, and its remaining attachments cut away. The subscapular and suprascapular arteries re- quire deligation, along with smaller vessels towards the posterior margin and under surface of the bone. The flaps, having been laid down upon the thoracic parietes, are united by suture. In the result, the move- ments of the forearm and hand remain perfect. The arm, too, retains all its freedom, but does not admit of abduction or circumduction. Amputation of the superior extremity along with the scapula stiU requires consideration. This has now occurred, and been recovered from, with sufficient frequency, as the result of accident—the parts having been torn away in machine-injuries—to render it in suitable cases a fit object of imitation as a regular procedure in surgery. Even already several successful cases attest the safety and satisfactory character of the operation. The incisions required are merely extensions of those employed in amputation at the shoulder-joint. They consist of two semilunar cuts ; the upper and posterior of which commences over the outer third of the clavicle, and terminates at the inferior angle of the scapula ; while the anterior, commencing at the same point, divides the anterior fold of the axilla, severs only the skin in the floor of that cavity, and terminates in the posterior extremity of the first incision. The posterior flap having been raised, the attachments of the vertebral margia and angle of the scapula having been cut through, the acromio-clavicular joint having been divided, and, by a little dissection, the scapula with