1206 STRICTUKE OF THE URETHRA. The proximate cause of stricture is fibrinous product, and conse- quent structural change, sometimes in the lining membrane of tlv: urethra, more commonly in the submucous areolar tissue, or in botli together—but chiefly in the latter situation; never the result of the formation of false membrane upon the free surface of the mucous canaL The ordinary sites of stricture are—at the orifice ; at the neck of the glans, and about an inch and a half from the orifice ; at the natural bend of the penis, from the suspensory ligament; at the scrotum, and imme- diately behind that point, between three and four inches from the orifice ; and in front of the membranous portion of the urethra, at the bulb, be- tween six and seven inches from the orifice. The researches of Sir C. BeU, and others, have demonstrated that contraction of the urethra sel- dom, if ever, occurs posterior to the bulb of the urethra. The most fre- quent sites are the two last named. But it is seldom that a tight stricture is found at the posterior part of the urethra, without more or less con- traction also at the ordinary sites in front ; in other words, in cases of bad stricture, a plurality of contractions may generally be expected. Wlien the aff'ection results from external injury, the site obviously must depend on its nature and point of application. The extent and degree of contraction vary. Sometimes a shred of membrane crosses the canal; and this excessively rare form, resulting pro- bably from the formation of a very limited false passage in a contracted canal by the awkward use of instruments, is termed the bridle-stricture. Sometimes the stricture is tight, but very limited, seeming as if a thread had been tied firmly on the part. This, which is much more common, is termed an annular stricture; and if the altered condition extends beyond the mere mucous membrane, such contractions have been called indurated annidar strictures. More frequently still, the contraction is of greater extent both in depth and length; extending in length from a quarter of an inch to an inch; or sometimes involving several inches of the canal. And the degree of thickening, contraction, and irregularity of the channel varies, according to the duration and treatment of the disease; from the slightest narrowing of the canal to its almost complete occlusion, with alteration of structure extending in the form of induration through- out the entire depth of the corpus spongiosum, and even beyond this— especially when the irritation has been great, and fistula in perineo has existed as a complication. By the older authors on surgery, caruncles, excrescences, warty growths, or polypi of the canal, were presumed to be very common causes of strictm-e, or obstruction to the passage of instruments. Such formations do undoubtedly sometimes exist in the prostatic part of the canal, and neck of the bladder—situations where stricture never occurs ; and at times a small granulation or wart may be seen just "uathin the orifice of the urethra ; but the statement that such structures constitute a cause of stricture obtains no support from pathological research. Behind the constricted point, dilatation takes place. Anteriorly to the actual stricture, there are collapse and contraction. The dilatation may be to such an extent as to hold more than one ounce of urine; and the mucous lining of the dilated part becomes prone to ulceration. Cal- culous matter may be retained there; and a stone may form, occupying