542 TREATMENT OF FEACTURE, In most examples of fracture, extension is with propriety discontinued i so soon as the retentive apparatus has boon duly appHed, But, in some cases, continuance of a certain amount of extension is necessary; other- wise, by invohmtary muscular action the fragments Avill again be made to overlap, and the limb will become shortened and deformed. In frac- ture of the thigh, for example, maintenance of permanent extension is i on this account deemed essential; and is usually effected by means i of the long splint, acted on by a band attached to its upper extremity \ and passed over the perineum (Fig. 217, a); by the tightening of which! band, the splint, and the limb with which it has become as it were incor- • porated, are pushed steadily downwards. Or the same indication might i be fulfilled, by suspension of a weight to the distal extremity of tlie< limb, the patient's bed being somewhat elevated towards the foot. Eecently, Mr. Syme, Malgaigne, and others, have expressed their dis- sent from this plan of treatment—more particularly in the case of thei thigh—believing that when the fracture has been reduced and measuresi employed to retain the parts in situ, the tendency in the muscles injuri-i ously to retract the fractured ends of the bone wiU cease spontaneously,? and that in those cases where they continue to maintain displacement,! this is due to the direction of the line of fracture which does not admit^ of perfect readjustment. In such circumstances, accordingly, they make no attempt to keep up extension ; considering it vain to attempt suc-d cessfully to carry on a contest with the muscles in the hope of wear them out. In some cases, no splints are requii'ed; coaptation being both effect and maintained by mere relaxation of muscles, and attention to position^ as in fractures of the clavicle and patella. In the treatment of all cases of fracture of the lower extremity, thti existence of a suitable bed is a sine qua non to the attainment of a suc-j cessful result. It should not be so broad as to prevent the surgeon from getting easily at his patient from either side ; there should be foot-board; the mattress shoidd be fixm, but elastic, and laid upon a soli3 unyielding straw palliass ; there should be no feather bed, under anj circumstances; and a slip sheet should be arranged beneath the hips, that those parts may be kept, by frequent shifting of it from side to sida both cool and clean. A very great comfort to most patients during thd long period of confinement to the recumbent posture which a fracture the thigh, for example, implies, will be a foot-board attached to the lowe part of the bed on the side corresponding to the sound leg, by which may be able to shift himself upwards, and prevent the downward sliding which without it is inevitable. By some, a rope attached to the roof oj the bed or room, and corresponding to the position of the patients' anna is found serviceable, by enabling them to assist in raising themselve when being shifted, or when the bed-clothes are changed. In the treat ment of fractures of the leg, " Salter s swinging cradle" will be founc a very great comfort to the patient, permitting him to shift his position in bed whenever he chooses, without disturbing the fractured bones i the limb and its retentive apparatus moving as a whole, along with the swinging sling, which follows, and adapts itself to every movement of th«j trunk.