322 TUMOURS OF BONE. the period is probably fast approaching, when by a complete change in the diathesis the bones become no longer pliable and yielding, but, resisting all remedial efforts, have their deforming curves permanently confirmed. In curvature of the spine, not of rickety origin, but depending on either muscular debility, or awkwardness of muscular play induced by careless and improper attitude, benefit is sometimes obtained by main- taining the strictly erect posture during a certain number of hours in the day; and by the poising of a light weight on the crown of the head. But, in rickets, ponderation of any kind will tend to prove an adjuvant, not of the cure, but of the disease. The principle of the former is not the imposing, but the abstracting of weight from the enfeebled column of support. To the rickety female, celibacy should be strictly enjoined ; for, un- fortunately, an " aptitude for conception" often exists, along with pelvic change and other circumstances extremely hostile to parturition. TUMOUES OF BONE. The simple or non-malignant tumours of bone are Exostosis, Osteoma, Encliondroma, Osteocystoma, and Osteosarcoma; the malignant, Osteo- cephaloma, Osteoscirrhus, Osteoid cancer, and Osteomelanosis. There are also vascular formations. Exostosis. By this is understood a growth from bone ; of osseous structure, analogous to that from which it has sprung ; and following the same course of formation as in original ossification. Medullary cells are formed beneath the periosteum, which either pass into transitional carti- lage or become directly transformed into bone, and thence the osseous outgrowth is gradually completed. At one time, the term was made to include all growths of bone; fleshy, osseous, and cartilaginous. But, with propriety, it is limited to growth of bone from bone. There are varieties. 1. The Dense or Ivory Exostosis.—This is most frequently found in the flat bones, especially the calvarium. It consists of dense new bone intimately incorporated with the exter- nal portion of the parent bone, to which it is quite analogous ; its surface is usually smooth and polished V ' : -"li like porcelain or enamel J its '''*i'Ait\\\|i'. outline forming the segment I'le-134. of a comparatively large circle, and the size seldom exceeding that of a nut, bisected. Growth is very gi-adual and altogether painless ; and liaving attained to a moderate bulk, Fig. 134. Several ivory exostoses, clustered on the os frontis.