137 CAUSES OF MOETIFICATION. arterial influx can be effectually arrested only by such means as must at the same time cut off all nervous influence; rendering retention of vitality, if possible, still more hopeless. Or the instrument may be apphed with tightness sufflcient to diminish, yet not so as to stop arterial influx. And then the result will be indirect, as in the case of obstruction to venous return only; the inflammatory process being excited, while power is depressed. Or, after deligation of the principal artery of a limb, weaken- ino- vital power—inasmuch as collateral circulation can never be, at first, quite equal to the normal arterial supply—^heat, friction, or other stimuli are apphed; and gangrene occurs in consequence. The first of these modes of death is comparatively a painless process ; being immediate. Pain ensues only on inflammatory accession, in. the adjoining living parts, whereby the line of separation is formed. The second mode is painful; because tedious, and inflammatory throughout. And this it is important to remember. When we wish to get rid of a tumour, for example, or other noxious structure, not amenable to excision, we employ Hgature. If we wish further, that the destructive process should be both speedy and easy to the patient—as doubtless, in the vast majority of cases, will be our object—we do not hesitate to put him to immediate pain, by tying the hgature with as tight a strain as it will bear; so as to cut off thoroughly its arterial supply, and altogether arrest its circulation. Whereas if, unwisely—and unmercifully—we treat him now with a gentle hand, much imnecessary pain remains for the future. The part, being but partially strangled, remains capable of assuming the inflammatory process; and the undergoing of that painful process, in the cu'cumstances, is essential. The most obvious illustration of this cause of gangrene is deligation ; from without. Eut equally efficient obstruction to arterial supply may come from within ; by rupture of the principal artery, or arteries; by consohdation of their canals, from embohsm or from fibrinous formation of a plastic kin^; by earthy degeneration of the vessels, as will after- wards be shewn ; or by rupture and diffusion of an aneurism. Perhaps the tendency to gangrene, in inflaming textures of an un- yielding kind, may be caused, at least in some degree, by the tension which invariably ensues; this so compressing the part, as either to arrest, or seriously impede, the already weakened circulation. In surgical operations, it is very useful to bear in mind that sudden and effectual obstruction of both arterial influx and venous return is likely to prove fatal to the part. For instance, in tying the principal artery of a hmb, on account of aneurism, we should be especially careful to avoid injury to the accompanying vein; for, if that be obstructed, as well as the artery, gangrene of the hmb—even without the intervention of undue stimulus—is extremely probable. If we can imagine the prm- cipal nerve to be at the same time seriously injured, gangrene is all but inevitable; under the threefold evil influence, of arterial and venous obstruction, with deprivation of nervous energy. 8. Cold.—The effect may be direct or indirect; more frequently it is the latter. But direct it may be ; thus. The immediate effect of cold, intense, and continuously apphed to the part, is greatly to depress both its circulation and its nervous energy ; and this depression, by con-