SUSPENDED ANIMATION. 578 X British and Foreign Medical Review, No. xliii. ]). 165. tulles is not by any means constant in cases of deatli from drowning. Ihc attempts to Lreatlie are repeated several times, and after each atteiii])t a small quantity of air is expelled from the moutli and nostrils, until tli(i air-cells of tlie lungs are partially, hut not completely, emptied. Then insensihility occurs, and convulsive actions of the muscles jnark the instant when the hrain hegijis to suffer from the influx of the dark- coloured blood. Soon all motion ceases ; save in the thorax, where the heart may bo felt yet feebly pulsating. Perhaps some further ineffectual efforts at respiration are resumed, and then all is stilL The inter\'al between cessation of respiratory effort (Asphyxia) and cessation of the heart's action (Death), is brief in the case of strangulation; but it is still more brief in drowning. And the whole series of events, in tlie latter case, succeeding rapidly, are complete within a very few minutes."* All alleged facts to the contrary are justly held, by competent authorities,f to be apocryphal. " The time during which professed and accomplished divers are able to remain under water, probably never exceeds two minutes ; although it may seem to be much longer. And the exaggera- tion of the time of submersion, by a bystander, in the case of either drowning or diving, may very readily be imagined to take place as it were involuntarily, without any intention to deceive; the observer being himself deceived as to the lapse of moments, by the midtipli- city of events which have been crowded into them.":}: Treatment of the Drowned. If the body be recovered before the diaphragm has ceased to act, breathing may be resumed naturally ; if not, artificial respiration is to be employed, the mouth and fauces having been cleansed from all foreign matter. At the same time, warmth is applied by means of dry heat and friction. Venesection is not indi- cated; neither is the use of stimuli—unless it be the application of galvanism to the heart, in circumstances otherwise desperate. The resuscitating means—already narrated—begun without an instant's delay, are j)atiently persevered in so long as any reasonable expectation of success remains. If the submersion have been complete, and pro- longed beyond four or five minutes, all efforts will probably prove in vain. Still, and under even more unpromising circumstances, it is right, for very obvious reasons, not to neglect a fair and reasonable trial of the restorative means. 4. By Carhonie Acid, or other Poisonous Gas. Here death is not purely by asphyxia, as in strangulation and submersion. Only two destructive gases—hydrogen and nitrogen—are said to be negative m * British, and Foreign Medical Eeview, No. xliii. p. 164. + " The cases which have been reported to the Eoyal Humane Society of drowned persons who have heen restored to life, when talcen up cold and breathless after an immersion of half an hour, shew that it is not travellers alone that are guilty of the vices of exaggeration and invention. We are compelled to regard these as mere ex- travngaut fables, not more authentic, though certainly less poetical and elegant, than those of nymphs and mermaids, who reside in grottoes beneath the waves of the sea, or than those Arabian fictions, which have astonished om- youtliful imaginations witli the histoiy of submarine nations whose princes dwell in palaces of crystal at the bottom of the ocean."—Sin Bf,n.tamin Buddie.