1229 SCROFULOUS TESTICLE. of potassium will be founel most serviceable, either with or after the use of mercurials. In the tertiary form, when the testis protrudes, or is exposed through one or more openings, mere local stimulation, with the administration of some preparation of iodine, is all that is re- quisite. The restoration of the protruding fungus testis is infinitely preferable to the old method of shaving off the protrusion from time to time, and treating the remaining wound as an ordinary ulcer. The cure was tedious; and, besides, frequent use of tbe knife in this way was tantamount to castration. By the new method—for which the profession is chiefly indebted to Mr. Syme*—cure is accelerated, and the function of the testicle is preserved. A question, however, still remains to be settled : whether the whole of the protruded part is capable of being reclaimed ; whether the intra-tubular product will wholly disappear, and the tubes everywhere recover their normal state and function. The probability is that, in the outward part of the fungus, disorganization has often advanced too far to admit of this ; and that, therefore, this portion— seldom more than a thin slice—may be removed by the knife, before the rest is covered in by raised integument, without sacrificing any recover- able virile power, and with the effect of still further expediting the cure. Often, the operation cannot be performed immediately on the patient's presenting himself; some days of preparatory treatment are usually necessary, that the part may be brought to a clean, granulating, and quiet condition—favourable to adhesive results. Central suppuration may occur in chi'onic orchitis. The matter may slowly reach the surface, and be discharged. Sometimes, it remains long stationary, in the condition of chronic abscess. Then the fluid portion of the matter may be absorbed, while the solid part remains in a concrete mass, resembling tubercular product; but distinguished from it, by being confined within a distinct cyst—what was the pyogenic membrane. Scrofulous Testicle. Tubercular product is not uncommon in the testicle; occurring either in aggregated masses, or diffused in the tubular structure, which becomes atrophied under the pressure of accumulation. Such affection is termed " Scrofulous Testicle." The swelling is gradual and very indolent; little pain or uneasiness is felt; the tumour seldom attains to a large size ; and the tubercular diathesis is usually indicated by strumous afl"ec- tions in other parts of the body. After a time, one of the prominences enlarges, reddens, and becomes painful; softening and suppuration have occurred there ; the integument gives way, and pus and tubercular matter are discharged. " The sore presents the ordinary appearances con- sequent on tubercular softening. Other parts may soften, point, and break ; and sinuses communicate one with another. After a time, the greater part of the tubercular matter may be discharged; then the swellmg diminishes, and the sores assume a healing tendency. Should any considerable part of the tubular stmcture have remained entire, it may protrude and form a fungus,, as in the case of simple chronic orchi- * Contributions to Siu-geiy, p. 204, Edin. 1848.