HECTIC. 34 excitement by exertion, emotion, food, or any other disturbing cause. It is scarcely ever hard and full, like the pulse of inflammatoiy fever, nor so small and compressible as that of the typhoid ; but holds a middle and variable place, in these respects, according to the degree of exhaus- tion of the patient, and the amount of febrile reaction. This state does not last more than a few hours; and then subsides by a critical sweat, so profuse and exhausting as to be justly termed colliquative. Or the sweat may be superseded by diarrhoBa; which is even more dangerous to the system. The condition of the urine is similar to that of inflamma- tory fever, or any other condition in which rapid transformation of tex- ture takes place. The tongue, may be a little dry durmg the paroxysm, which is accompanied by great tliirst; but becomes moist again so soon as the fit is over. The eye is free from suffusion; and flushing of the face is usually limited to a spot in the centre of the cheek, the colour of which contrasts strongly with the general pallor. These febrile paroxysms occur almost invariably towards evening, reaching their height about midnight, and passing into the sweating stage early in the morning. The intervals, in the early stage of the affection, are not unfrequently free from fever. Occasionally, however, there are slighter exacerbations ; sometimes irregular in character; often seeming to be determined by the taking of food. In the advanced stage, fever is nearly constant; but evening exacerbations and morning sweats remain characteristic of it to the end. ISTotwithstanding the great and constantly increasing emaciation— which may be ascribed to the loss of nutritive fluid, by the suppuration or other discharge—the apjDetite and assimilative functions are compara- tively little affected; at least in the less advanced stages of the disease. Sometimes, it is true, there are exceptions to this ; but it is when the assimilative organs are directly involved, as in many of those cases of hectic fever falling under the notice of the physician. In the ordinary forms of hectic, connected with external disease, the appetite continues ; and food is taken, during the remissions, with considerable rehsh. The tongue then may be natural in appearance; or it may present a slight fur, with red edges; often it is preternaturally clean and glistening, as if its mucous membrane were peeled off; it is rarely much loaded ; sometimes, however, covered with white aphthous patches ; but never per- manently dry and rough as in typhoid fever. The bowels are frequently constipated, as in other diseases implying protracted confinement to bed ; but, not unfrequently, they are natural; or there may be diarrhoea, as just mentioned. Eut exemption of the nervous centres from participation in the general disorder is, perhaps, a more strildng character of hectic, as compared with typhoid, and even inflammatory fever, than almost any symptom yet mentioned. Throughout the whole course of the afiection, the mind may remain perfectly clear ; not uncommonly, indeed, the mental faculties seem to be in an umisually vigorous and active condition, even when the body is very debilitated. In. the intervals of the paroxysms, the patient usually procures sound and refreshing sleep; and even Avhen fever has become constant, the harassing watchfulness {pciTujUium) of the typhoid is very rare. Sleep may, it is true, Ijo light and frequently