CEDEMA GLOTTIDIS. VI. LSI 5. . ' 8G9 Tlioi'O is, however, no interference with the patency of the glottis in the ctl'ort at full, deep inspiration; the secretion, accordingly, is not liaLlo to be retained and accnniulated ; no paroxysm of dyspnrea threatening suf- focation is likely to be caused by such changes, even when considerable ; and consequently, in this affection the direct interference of surgery, by bronchotomy, is not required. Medical treatment as for cynanche, of which it is a common complication or consequence, suffices. b. Laryngitis CEdcmatosa.—This is the acute (Edema Glottidis of Bayle and La^vrence,* an inflammatory process attacking the larynx, and rapidly causing much bulging of the lining membrane by serous or sero- purulent infiltration of the submucous tissue. In consequence of such change, the characteristic symptoms are soon developed ; increasing dys- pnoea, liable to paroxysmal exacerbation; inspiration protracted, laboured, and stridulous ; expiration comparatively easy and silent; anxiety of countenance; rapid, feeble pulse; venous congestion, or extreme pallor of the face, lips, and skin ; copious transpiration from the smface, with great languor; and death either by gradually-induced coma, or from sudden asphyxia during one of the paroxysmal attacks. With the laryngoscope the obstruction is found chiefly to implicate the arytseno-epiglottidsean ligaments, the false and true vocal cords, and the sinuses of Morgagni; the mucous membrane of the epiglottis being also tumid. In many cases, however, when the asphyxia is very acute and intense, the margins and under-surface of the true vocal cords have alone been implicated, indi- cating that it is change in them which really forms the serious obstacle to insphation. The oedematous parts have lost their normal pink tint, and present a glistening clear amber aspect, due obviously to the distension of the mucous and submucous tissue with sero-fibrinous product. When the affection impUcates the mucous membrane, covering the epiglottis, arytseno-epiglottidsean ligament, and upper part of the laryngeal apparatus, a more plain indication is afforded to the surgeon, inasmuch as the oede- matous swelling may be felt, on the epiglottis and glottis, by the finger introduced from the mouth; and may even be seen, on merely depressing the tongue forcibly by the speculum. Practically, the disease may be divided into three stages. 1. There is the condition of laryngitis sim- plex; while the affection has not proceeded beyond turgescence, and when there is no obstruction to breathing. But this state is quickly overpassed, in most cases. 2. The characteristic oedematous swelling is forming; not diffused and uniform, but mainly affecting the glottis and its immediate neighbourhood, and causing prominent bulging there. Eespiration is now more or less impeded; and obstruction is on the increase. 3. Breathing having been for some time seriously interfered with, and aeration of the blood imperfectly performed, untoward results hegin to manifest themselves in both lungs and brain — congestion, followed by serous accumidation ; and the threatening of asphyxia is aggravated by the approach of coma. Most frequently the obvious cause of death is by the former event; obstruction by mucous swelling becommg greatly augmented by the accumulation of viscid mucous secretion, which the inefficient efforts at coughing cannot relieve; a * T'AVM.;, Mfin. dc 1' Acad, do Climirg. LAwiiENOJi, Med. OhirurL'., trans., vol.