1284 CANCEll OF THE UTERUS. or even unusual absence, of discharge, may deceive. But as soon as ulceration is established, the nature of the discharges and their mixture with blood at once give the alarm. Patients frequently suffer from pain in the mamma, also in either the right or left hypogastric region, of a wearing kind, with frequent re- currences of stabbing and lancinating shoots ; also from fixed pain, often of a burning kind, in the region of the womb; from pain in the back ; from pain and restlessness in the legs; from pruritus of the vulva, and irritation of the bladder ; also from constipation, and feeling of bearing down or pressure upon the anus. These sufferings may continue during all the course of the disease, or may be at different times substituted the one for the other. Before active ulceration commences, there may be no discharge; or there may be a secretion of thin, serous, acrid fluid. Sometimes, even when there is superficial and slowly progressive ulceration, there may be little or no discharge ; as is sometimes seen in cases of open scirrhus of the mamma. But, in general, as soon as ulceration commences, there appears a large quantity of muco-purulent secretion, which soon becomes foetid and mixed with debris from the seat of disease. Hemorrhage also occurs ; either merely at times tinging the discharge more or less, or, if a considerable vessel has been ulcerated through, flowing in a con- tinuous stream. On examination in an early stage of the disease, the cervix uteri is found enlarged, hard, irregularly nodulated, more or less tender to the touch ; the os much increased in size, and more or less dilated. On in- spection, the cervix is seen to be generally of an unhealthy red colour, and there may be excoriations in the sulci between the nodules ; the excoriations being of a deep red hue, and the nodules projecting and often showing very little redness. In general, cancer of the uterus is of easy diagnosis ; patients usually presenting themselves after ulceration, with its accompanying discharges, has commenced, and infiltration into the cervix and surrounding tissues is considerably advanced. It is liable to be confounded with hj'per- trophy of the cervix, with fibrous tumour of the uterus, and with polypus and the grounds of distinction have already been given in treating of these subjects. The disease is incurable; and treatment is confined to palliation. Sometimes the excessive watery discharge may be moderated by the use of astringent lotions, or the apphcation of astringent ointments; espe- cially those having tannin in their composition. If there is much ten- dency to hemorrhage, no local application can be used with safety. Bleeding, when it occurs, must be arrested in the usual way—by hori- zontal position, cold, styptics, astringents and opiates internally, and plugging if necessary. Foetor in the discharges is corrected by use of the ordinary disinfectants and deodorants, employed as lotions and injections. The pains in the hypogastrium and loins may be reheved for a time by blistering, or by cupping; no blood, or a small quantity being taken—according as there is much sharpness and frequency of pulse, or the reverse. The local application of ice, or of refrigerating mixtures, through the speculum, has sometimes been of service. But