WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. Wounda of the Thoracic Parietes. These vary in character, caiise, and effects, as do other wounds ; and, except as to their diagnosis from penetrating injuries, do not require special recognition—as they need merely ordinary treatment. Wounds which penetrate the Thoracic Cavity. These may be inflicted by the thrust of a sharp instrument, by the penetration of obtuse bodies, by gunshot, or by the penetration of a fractured rib. Danger is great both at once and secondarily; immedi- ately it may be, though rarely, by loss of blood, and by entrance of air through the wound into the pleural cavity; subsequently, and more commonly, by inflammatory results. The last mentioned danger is also the most serious. Penetrating wounds by sharp instruments, when the lungs are injured, are always formidable by bleeding; while pneumo- thorax, and inflammatory results, are nearly certain to ensue. But, in the case of an obtuse body penetrating, the elasticity of the lung may save the tissue from injury, which, from a sharply-pointed body, it could not fail to sustain. The symptoms present in aU such cases are a sense of oppression in the chest, suddenly induced and gradually increasing, and more or less interruption to the pulmonary circulation, attended by venous congestion of the lips and face due to imperfect oxygenation of the blood. When the pulse becomes feeble, quick, and irregular, and the extremities cold—and when the wound is free and the expansion of the thoracic parietes uninterrupted—although the breathing may be hurried and the sense of oppression great, dyspnoea properly so called cannot be said to exist. 1. Wounds of the Pleural Cavity.—If the intercostal artery have been wounded, bleeding is likely to be troublesome ; this however is a rare though occasional occurrence. The loss may be excessive through the ex- ternal wound; or, especially when the wound is small and punctured, or situated near the upper part of the chest, without any external indication of hemorrhage, blood is likely to escape into the pleural cavity, and, compressing the lung, to constitute a dangerous h£emato-thorax. To arrest the bleeding, therefore, should engage our first attention; and to secure the vessel, one of two methods may be adopted. If the wound is an open one, the mouth of the vessel should be exposed, seized with artery forceps, and tied; or compression by lint, or by the finger of an assistant, should be employed. Some have advised that both the vessel and the adjacent rib should be surrounded by a ligature; or that a wire, carrying a compress of lint, should be passed round by means of a semi- circular needle. Others have recommended that a bandage having been placed over the part, a fold of it should be pushed into the wound, between the ribs ; and that the linen pouch thus formed within the pleural cavity should be crammed with charpie, by means of a probe or director ; then, by tightening the bandage, and securing it firmly round the chest, that this internal plug should be made to compress the vessel and occlude its orifice. But, indeed, the frequency of wound of the intercostal vessels has been very much exaggerated ; and in most cases