993 PELVIC ABSCESS. solidation of the entire track. This may succeed, after patient continu- ance of it for some time, along with complete repose in the recumbent postiu-e, a limitation of diet almost approaching to starvation, and due attention to the state of the bowels. If it fail, then the actual cautery may be applied, so as by contraction of the burn to obtain closure. And if this do not succeed, then by autoplasty the chasm may be filled up and permanently consolidated; a suitable portion of integument being transplanted from a neighbouring part. Pelvic Abscess. The sub-peritoneal areolar tissue, in the pelvic region, is liable to be the seat of suppurative inflammatory disease ; sometimes in connection with the puerperal state, but often wholly independent of this. Occa- sionally it is induced, on the right side, by irritation extended from the caput coecum—forming the perityphlitis of Burns and others ; on the left side, it may originate in impaction or other disorder of the lower bowel. It has followed operative interference with the uterus or its appendages—as well as with the penis and bladder—not unfrequently ; sometimes it is traced by the patient to a chill; sometimes it can be connected with no assignable cause. The disease is more frequent in the female than in the male. Inflammatory product is usually rapid and copious; and at first is either serous or fibrinous. In this state it is amenable to absorption; and under suitable treatment may disappear rapidly. When suppuration has fairly taken place, evacuation is to be looked for, either spontaneously or by the hand of the surgeon. In the former case, the point of exit varies ; at the hypogastrium, or umbilicus, by pointing in the ordinary way ; in the groin ; by the bowel; through the upper wall of the vagina, close to the anterior lip of the cervix uteri; into the bladder ; or into the general abdominal cavity. Fortunately, the last-mentioned casualty is comparatively rare; the peritoneum, from its fibrous nature, long resisting the ulcerative tendency of the accumulating pus. Sometimes, instead of suppurating, the tissue becomes loaded with a dense plasma, partially incorporated and organized. The symptoms are usually ushered in by rigor. There are pain and tenderness of the part, with dulness on percussion. The rectum and bladder, being compressed, and involved in sympathy, have their func- tions more or less disturbed ; and the uterus, too, is liable to displace- ment. On examining by the vagina or rectum, a hard dense swelling is perceived; determined to be non-uterine, if need be, by the use of the sound; and, unlike other pelvic swellings, having very firm connection and continuity with the bony walls of the pelvis. In doubt, an explora- tory thrust may be made by the small trocar—through the abdominal parietes, by the vagina, or by the rectum, according as the site of the swelling may determine. On outward pointing taking place, the nature of the case becomes abundantly plain. At an early period, the treatment consists of leeching, followed by counter-irritation, and mercury pushed to ptyalism. Iodine may be painted over the abdominal parietes; or it may be administered in the form of ointment, by the vagina. Under such remedies, with rest, and 3 8