TREATMENT OF EEECTILE TUMOUR. 433 caustic, may bo introduced, and moved in various directions through tlie mass. The inflammatory process follows, accompanied by more or less of the desired plastic change. The hot needle introduced frequently and freely, so as to traverse all parts of the tumour, is admirably suited to the minor cases so common in young children. The result is most suc- cessful ; and the remaining mark by cicatrix is but sliglit, the skin being uudestroyed. Or, with a like view, some coagulating fluid may be injected through a puncture; by means of a fine syringe. This proceeding, however, must be conducted cautiously, lest diffuse suppuration occur, or slough- ing, Avitli grave constitutional symptoms ; and such caution is specially needful in the case of patients of tender years. If the injection of a fluid capable of inducing rapid coagulation, such as the solution of the perchloride of iron, is used incautiously and in large quantity, the coa- gula formed in the tumour may pass into the right side of the heart, and thence into the pulmonary circulation, and induce all the evil effects of partial or complete embolism of the pulmonary arteries. Galvano-punc- ture has been employed successfully by Nelaton. A seton may be passed through the tumour; the needle small; and the thread large, so as to occlude the aperture completely, and prevent immediate bleeding. It is worn till suppuration is fully established, with accompanying plastic change more or less copious ; and, if need be, one or two such may be made to traverse the tumour in various direc- tions. To increase their effect they may be soaked in alum, or in the solution of the perchloride of iron. The part may be inoculated with croton oil; expecting obliterative inflammatory change to follow. Or nitric acid may be pricked into the tumour with a needle. Vaccination may be performed on the part. A child having been horn with such a growth, vaccine virus may be inserted beneath the skin at various points of the little tumour, instead of at the usual site in the arm. The likelihood is that the inflammatory process, which attends the formation of the vesicle, will have an obliterative effect on the morbid tissue. And this is a very advisable method of treatment when the tumour is of no great extent, and is seen in time. It requires watcMng, however, lest dangerous sloughing ensue. At the same time, it is to be remembered that all such minor modes of treatment are liable to fail; rendering subsequent recourse to more stringent measures necessary. And it is prudent, therefore, to limit their use to the minor examples of the disease. Wherever probability of failure is at all considerable, it is better to have recourse at once to that remedy which is certainly infallible. The more especially as one mode of operation is usually as formidable in the eyes of the patient and friends as another. 4. By amputation.—If the diseased texture involve the greater part of a finger or toe, foot or hand, as sometimes happens, it is well at once to amputate the affected part; due arrangements having been made for the unusual amount of hemorrhage which is likely to occur-. second form of vascular tumoiir, consisting chiefly of enlarged 2 I.'