SPASM OF THE GLOTTIS. 8G5 restrained, so as not to affect respiration urgently, and that inflammatory extension from tlio parts first involved to the air passages in general may be prevented. If, however, antiphlogistics fail, and asphyxia threaten by obstruction in the larynx, tracheotomy is to bo had recourse to ; at once ; not reserving the operation, especially in the child, until by extreme urgency of the symptoms it cannot possibly be longer delayed, and recovery is rendered more than problematical by congestion in the brain, in the lungs, or in both. Laryngotomy is plainly unsuitable; to prac- tise that, would be to cut into the affected part, and to fulfil very imper- fectly, if at all, the object of the operation. The wound of tracheotomy, on the other hand, is below the seat of disease, the affected part is put at rest, life is saved from asphyxia, and the inflaming larynx, by being allowed quietude, is powerfully aided in the resolutory effort. On deca- dence of the inflammatory process, and when absorption, clearing away all sweUing, has restored the normal state of the organ, the tube is with- drawn, and the wound permitted to close. By too long delay cicatricial contraction may occur, or permanent thickening remain, so as to prevent the patient afterwards being able to breathe without the tracheal wound remaining open. Sj^asni of the Glottis. It has been already stated how bronchotomy may be highly available in the case of spasmodic closure of the glottis, threatening asphyxia; as in poisoning by carbonic acid. Laryngismus Stridulus, a spasmodic affection of the windpipe, not imcommon in children, and occasionally met with in the adult, may in its paroxysms threaten suffocation; and, in such circumstances, the question of the expediency of bronchotomy comes to be entertained. In general, the operation is to be withheld, unless the circumstances prove extremely urgent; and it is then employed as a means of palliation and protraction, rather than of cure. And more especially will the prognosis be guarded and unfavourable, if there be reason to believe that the spasmodic attacks are dependent on irritation produced by structural change at a low part of the windpipe ; as by enlargement of the thymus gland, affection of the bronchial glands, aneurism, or other formation of tumour. In one form of aortic aneurism, when the tumour is small, and does not com- press and contract the air passage, but acts on the larynx irritatingly by implication of the recurrent nerve, causing suffocative paroxysms of spasm in the glottis, it seems very proper to have recourse to tracheotomy early, With a certain hope of relief, and a prospect of even something more than mere palliation. But when the tumour is large, compressing and con- ractmg the air passage, and causing continuous dyspnoea, which involves th inspiration and expiration, the prospect is not so favourable, and e grounds for operation are scarcely sufficient, probably, to warrant its erformance.* Even in such cases, however, it has been recommended operate, and introduce a long clastic tube of such size as the trachea at he site of obstruction will admit, which shall be carried beyond the situa- of the aneurism. This proceeding must be attended with manifest * Montlily Journal, Aug. 1851, p. 185. Ibid., Feb. 1853, p. 114. 3 K