CHAPTER LXIII. ATFECTIOE'S OF THE SCEOTUM AND PENIS, Erysipelas of the Scrotum.—Acute (Edema of the Scrotum. Erysipelas not imfrequently attacks the scrotum, in a distinct and marked form ; peculiarly destructive in its type ; partaking much of the characters of diffuse areolar infiltration. It occurs in adults of weak and broken down system, given to drink and other dissipation; and usually follows a kick, blow, or other injury, SwelUng is great and rapid; with marked symptoms of constitutional irritation from the commencement. Thin, unwholesome matter speedily forms, and is diffused into the areolar tissue. The skin — at first red, tense, and glistening — blackens, or assumes a tawny hue, shrivels, and becomes cold and foetid. Sloughing is begun and advancing. Very frequently, the groins are involved; and the mischief extends upwards in the abdominal parietes. The constitu- tional symptoms soon pass from the irritative into the typhoid type; and fatal sinking follows. Local and general safety can be obtained, only by early and active interference. Often the chalybeate treatment is found specially successful. During the whole progress of the affection, the scrotum should be constantly kept well supported. Erythema may occur at any time in the scrotum, under the ordinary exciting causes. It follows the ordinary course, and requires the ordi- nary treatment. Tlie areolar tissue of the scrotum is very liable to simple serous cedema; occurring sometimes as a distinct affection; much more fre- quently a concomitant of general anasarca. When excessive, relief and diminution may be obtained from a few dependent punctures ; made cautiously, however, lest inflammatory accession ensue. Elephantiasis of the Scrotum. The scrotum is liable to chronic enlargement by hypertrophy; form- ing a large simple tumour, within which the genital organs come to be altogether concealed; the prepuce alone remaining visible, at the lower part of the swelling, thickened, and warty; and from this point the urine is discharged in a scattered stream. The affection is much more frequent in hot climates than in this country. There is no cure, but by use of the knife. When the tumour is of no vast size, the incisions may be planned so as to save the penis and testicles ; and dissection is conducted cautiously with this view,* In the case of a large tumour, however, * Further details of this affection, and of the operative treatment required, with diagrams, will be found given by Dr, Brett, Lancet, No, 1174, p, 241.^