772 CIIEILOPLASTICS. of tnily caucorous disease, restorative iuiorference is seldom required • except by the operations already spoken of. ' The autoplastic operation may be conducted on tlie sajne principles as for restoration of the nose. A flap, of suitable form and dimensions is brought from beneath the chin. A connecting slip is left at the sym- physis ; there gentle twisting is made, so as to bring integument to the surface ; the part is seciired in its new site by suture ; and, by the like means, a portion of the submental wound is approximated—the rest being left to heal by gi-anulation. After adhesion of the flap is completed, the mental slip of attachment is divided, and smoothed down, by tlie bistoury, Where the upper lip has been destroyed by ulceration, so tliat a mere narrow band of tissue beneath the columna represents this part, restora- tion may bo effected by, 1st. Detaching the remains of the lip trans- versely from the parts beneath; 2d. Making two oblique or curvilinear in- cisions which, meeting together in the middle Kne beneath the cohimna, extend outwards through the thickness of the cheek beyond the alse of the nose; then, 3d. Dissecting up the cheek to the extent of the inci- sions, the central portion of the two lateral incisions are brought together by sutures, in a perpendicular direction, so as to form the middle of the lip, while the rest of the lines of incision are imited so as to support the central portion. "When loss of the upper Hp is confined to one side, a por- tion of the whole thickness of the lower lip may be emploj'-ed to occupy the deficiency. The prolabium of the lower lip sb.ould be first detached by an incision parallel to the margin of the lip, but left adherent to the central portion; an incision is then carried fi'om this point doAvnwards towards the chin, and curved beneath the base of the jaw, as in Fig. 277, but only upon one side instead of both, as there represented. Hie large flap thus marked out is then raised, and the cicatrix corresponding' to the site of the upper lip having been dissected out so as to receiv" it, the flap is attached in its new position by sutures. An incision is then carried through this flap, corresponding in level and extent to th mouth, upon the opposite side; and while the prolabium which was detached from the lower lip as a prehminary to the operation is attache to the new margm of the lower Hp, the mucous membrane and skiu of the new upper lip are brought together by tlu-ead sutures. The re mainder of the incision through the middle of the lower lip is adjuste to the parts on the opposite side where they correspond, and the ga_ beneath the base of the jaw left to granulate. Mr. Teale of Leeds h devised an ingenious method for effecting restoration of tlie lower hpf in cases where, from the cicatrization of an extensive burn in the neck, the integuments of the lower part of the fiice have been dragged down-: wards. In such cases the lower lip is everted and the inferior iucisorfci left exposed. He recommends an incision to be carried transversehj across the exposed mucous membrane of the lower lip parallel to tbc^ gingival margin, from one canine tooth to the other; from each end o: this, perpendicular incisions are carried downwards to the base of the jaw and from the extremity of these incisions, two curvilinear ones cxt<^iH outwards along the base of tlie bone. The triangular flops tlius market out are dissected up, until sufficiently detached to admit of their bcinf j brought together in the middle line, and united one to the otlior.