TREPHINING. 629 Fracture of the Inner Table, alone. Fortunately this is of comparatively rare occurrence; for, the outer table remaining entire, we have no means of ascertaining the nature of the injury, at the time of infliction. It may follow on a sharp concus- sing blow; in a patient, who, by reason of age or other cause, has a vit?eous table of unusual brittleness. The table may be simply severed, and not much depressed; then head symptoms are likely to prove both sUght and transient. But, more probably, there is comminution as well as displacement; and then the usual hazard is incurred from the depressed and perhaps penetrating spicula. The trephine is likely to be called for, after a time, on account of dura-matral abscess. Depression without Fracture. As already stated, this occurs only in children ; in whom bones are uore prone to bend than to break. A dimple is made in the skull by xternal violence, and is slowly effaced by virtue of the inherent elas- icity of the tissue. For a time, there may be symptoms of compression; jut seldom of a marked character ; and still more rarely urgent. Opera- ive interference is neither necessary nor expedient. The treatment is :;:iply antiphlogistic; and prophylaxis is long maintained. The Operation of Trephining. The trephine is a circular saw, worked by a light and rapid move- ment of the hand, whereby a portion of the skull is divided, and may be c'laoved. The older surgeons employed what is known as the trepan ; n instrument of much greater power, and which seems to have fallen ito disuse most unjustly, as it is adapted to economise muscular effort. 11 it the saw is fitted upon a pivoted shank, precisely like the carpen- •r's brace, and is worked in like manner. A less cumbrous instrument, l)on the same principle, has more recently been copied from the arma- 1-ntarium of the engineer, in which the saw, pivoted upon a shank, 1 provided with a horizontal but marginally-bevelled ratchet wheel, is liven by a perpendicular pinion wheel fitted to a rectangular driving indie. For the application of the trephine or trepan, complete exposure the bone is necessary. If a wound already exist, it is enlarged to the essary extent. If there be no previous wound, a crucial or other in- ion is made ; so that, by reflection of flaps, the required exposure may i effected. The pericranium is carefully raised to an extent sufficient ' admit of the free play of the instrument; but no further. The centre- n, sharp-pointed, having been made to protrude a short way beyond ; serrated edge, is securely fixed there by its screw. And then, by '1 pressure, accompanied with a slight rotatory motion, the centre-pin i'xed in the bone, so as to steady the teeth of the instrument as they t into the external table. The teeth of the trephine are usually set so to work from left to right. The turnings are made steadily and '"ily; with very light pressure, after the centre-pin has been fixed ; '1 the light pressure is exerted only during the movement from left to