861 FOEEIGN BODIES IN THE WINDPIPE. however, tracheotomy, though a more troublesome opoi'ation, is for ob- vious reasons to be preferred ; the aperture is more free, and tlie facilities for extraction, both from below aaid from above the opening, are mani- festly greater. When the foreign substance is loose, it is usually expelled forcibly by the outward current of air, so soon as the operation is completed. On this account it is well, if the patient has been put under the influence of chloroform, to permit him to emerge before opening the trachea, so as to secure as complete eiforts at expulsive coughing as possible. If the foreign body is fixed, it must be sought for, and removed artificially. If lodged above the opening, a common probe, or the little finger of the surgeon, is the most convenient instrument for exploration. By it the site is de- tected ; by it the foreign body may be pushed tlirough the rima—to be coughed up ; or loosening is effected, with subsequent expulsion through the tracheal wound. When the site of lodgment is in the bronchus, for- ceps somewhat longer than nasal polypus forceps, but a little more curved at the extremity, will be found most suitable for both exploration and extraction. Auscultation and percussion having previously imparted to the operator a shrewd suspicion of the site of lodgment, the instrument is passed down shut, and made if possible to impinge on the foreign substance ; then, slightly withdrawn, the blades are opened; and push- ing on again gently, the object is probably gi'asped; if not, their blades should be opened in various directions, so as to catch the foreign body between the blades. The wound is kept open, until bleeding has ceased • it may then be brought accurately together by adhesive plaster, and ad- hesion hoped for. But the air-passage may prove intolerant of the forceps ; and per- severance in their use, searching for a foreign body, might peril life by violent paroxysms of dyspnoea. In such circumstances, chloroform should be administered both by the wound and by the mouth, so as to lull the excessive irritability of the bronchial mucous membrane.* In such cases, modern experience has pointed out a safer mode of procedure t—more especially if the foreign body be of some weight, as a stone, coin, or any piece of metaL The tracheal wound being kept open, let the patient's body be inverted, so as to make the head dependent; and, if need be, let succussion over the centre of the back be had recourse to, so as to favour dislodgment of the offending substance, and its descent towards the larynx by gravitation. Arrived at the rima, it will not find its out- ward passage there obstructed by spasm, nor will a paroxysm of dyspnoea be induced ; for, the opening in the trachea has the effect of obviating this difficulty and danger. Escape occurs into the mouth, and thus ex- trusion is effected with both ease and safety. It has been proposed to supersede bronchotomy altogether, by the preceding manoeuvre. But such a proposal does not seem to be a prudent one. In most cases the attempt would probably fail, and life be immi- nently perilled, the foreign body being obstructed by spasm at the rima, and perhaps becoming impacted there. The proceeding is suitable only ^nen the foreign body is small, smooth, and of high specific gravity; * See a case by Dr. Johnston of Montrose, Lancet, No. 1478, p. 600. t Lancet, 1063, p. 502.