1239 CIRSOCELE. external ring. There is a sensation of weight and uneasiness in tlie part; the testicle may he the seat of neuralgia, sometimes it becomes atrophied. An acliing sensation in the groin and loins is not unfrequcnt. Sometimes the swelling proves very inconvenient, from its mere pen- dulousness and bulk; as in saddlers and others, who require close approximation of the thighs in their vocational labour—and in those Avho are much on horseback. Occasionally, a mental despondency is observed, greater than the Iwdily ailment Avould seem to warrant. Treatment is palliative or radical. The former consists in avoiding or removing the more obvious causes of the affection, keeping the testicle Avell supported by a bandage, and bathing the parts frequently in cold Avater. When the integuments of the scrotum are very redundant, the testicle may be retained in close contact with the groin, by invagination of the loose integument through a padded soft metal ring. Or such trus- sing may be more effectually maintained, by removing the redundant skin by incision ; support of the testicle being then intrusted to the cicatrix. When the testicle is suffering either by neuralgia or by atrojjhy, or when much uneasiness and discomfort are experienced, eradication of the disease is naturally sought for. With tliis view, the varix may be treated here as elsewhere—by obliteration,of the veins. 1. The actual cautery may be used ; a heated awl being applied to the veins, isolated and fixed between the finger and thumb. The practice is safe and effectual, but the formidable nature of the application is a serious objec- tion. 2. The veins may be compressed by suture, applied on needles passed beneath them by transfixion ; as in ordinary varix ; care being taken to exclude the vas deferens and the spermatic artery. Obstruction of the duct is tantamount to castration, and obliteration of the artery may be followed by atrophy of the testicle. 3. The operation of M. Vidal may be performed. The varicose veins, having been separated from the rest of the cord, are placed between two silver wires, passed by the transfixion of needles, and emerging at the same openings. By twisting together the ends of the wires, the interposed veins are com- pressed ; and, by a continuance of the twisting, they are rolled up round the wires, while at the same time the testicle is proportionately elevated. The ends are then secured across a roll of bandage placed on the integument. The operation may also be performed by means of Mr. Wood's rectangu- lar needles. The wire or needles may be removed at the end of a fort- night or three weeks. Or, by further twisting of the united ends, by means of dressing forceps, the compression and twisting of the veins are gradually increased; and this is continued, until the wires free themselves by ulceration—thus declaring section and obliteration of the veins to be complete. 4. Obliterative pressure may be maintained on the veins at the groin, by means of a spring truss. Eut this, for obvious reasons, is not advisable. Moderate pressure there, however, is found very ser- viceable ; not merely palliating, but sometimes obtaining cure ; probably by affording support to the veins, while they are at the same time relieved from the superincumbent weight of blood. Such moderate pressure is best applied by a light and accurately fitted truss.* It * Curling on the Testicle ; and Thomson, Monthly Joiirnal, Nov. 1848, p. 295. " Evans' moc-niain lever tniss" is very suitable.