444 llADIG/VL CU1{E 0¥ VAIUX, permitted to remain undisturbecl, until it boeomes spontaneously detaclied by ulceration, lor, in tliose cases in which the application has been but temporary, experience has sliewn that renewed circulation is liable to occur, at the part supposed to have been obliterated. And, accordingly, it IS well to apply the ligature very gently at first, so as to avoid all risk of being compelled to remove the application too soon. It is better that the threads should be so slack as to remler the progress even tedious than that tightness should either induce a dangerous inflammatory process or render it expedient to risk an abortive result by premature removal of the sutures. Points of suture are applied, in this way, at various parts of the dilated vein, or veins; so arranged, as to site and number, as most Fig, 193. favourably to conduce towards the obliterative result. AVith this, some (Lee) recommend the subcutaneous section of the occluded vein or veins; while others practise injection of the insulated portion, with the per- chloride of iron—using for this purpose the syringe of Pravaz, or the little instrument employed for the subcutaneous injection of morphia. The same preparatory and attendant treatment is necessary, as for the remedy by cauterization. And let it ever be remembered, that there is not only greater risk from, but greater probability of, too much than too little of the inflammatory accession. Should erysipelas attack the part, the needles are at once withdrawn. And the anti-erysipelatous treatment behoves to be specially alert; seeing that by its invasion suppurative phlebitis has been rendered very imminent. After the radical cure, in whatever way attempted, the erect posture and laborious avocations ought to be very gradually resumed ; and uniform support, by an elastic bandage or stocking, should be afforded to the affected parts for a long time. Otherwise, return of varix, even in the same vessels, is more than probable. For the venous tissue in no respect more widely differs from the arterial than in this—a proneness to resume the open state, after apparently complete occlusion. And though the shut vessels remain unaltered, their collateral neighbours, now busy in the dropped function of the others, are very ajit to assume the vari- cose change. And again, let it be well understood that some risk, by phlebitis, attendant on the simplest and best of these methods of radical cure, does always exist; that, therefore, both patient and surgeon should rest con- Fig. 193. obliteration of varicose veius, at three points. The raclicnl cure.