948 FKACTUUE OF THE SPINE, seems absurd and iinatteuded with any advantage; but it has been sug- gested that althouj^^h useless when the bodies ave displaced, this operation might reasonably be adopted when the arch only is depressed and com- presses the cord. Experience has shewn, however, that it is not attended by success; and we are led to the conclusion that for the future it is unjustifiable oven on the ground of affording a possible chance of recovery. The injury to the cord is really beyond remedy; and laying open the spinal canal is only likely to set up further inflammatory mischief in the membranes. • Fracture of the transverse 2^1'ocesses has only occun-ed in cases of gunshot injury; in itself it is unimportant, except that it impHes in all probability serious or fatal injury inflicted on other parts. In the neck, lesion of the vertebral artery in its canal is a likely and probably fatal complication. Fracture of the Bodies of the Vertebrce generally results from forced flexion of the vertebral column ; when occasioned by direct violence, it is usually complicated with a fracture of the arches of the affected bone, otherwise the articulating processes either give way or become displaced. Such a complete solution of continuity in the spinal column at the injured part is always fraught with the utmost danger, not only to the function of the parts beyond but also to life ; for although Sir A. Cooper's statement that this injury, when attended with displacement, is always fatal sooner or later, is rather too absolute, the instances where recovery has taken place are certainly the exception. In all those cases where the solution of continuity in the spinal column is complete, structural injury, amounting to division of the cord within its membranes, has probably been inflicted at the same time ; extravasation of blood, too, has taken place in quantity into the canal; and probably there is dis- placement of the fragments—thus adding permanent pressure by the bone to the injury originally inflicted on the soft parts -within. Ordi- narily, therefore, the most prominent sign of spinal fracture—besides pain, swelling, ecchymosis, and symptoms of well marked concussion or compression of those parts beyond the seat of injury—consists in angidar distortion of the spine, or an irregularity in the line of the spinous processes. Sometimes mobility and crepitus are also recognisable to a very painful degree ; but all examination likely to eHcit such sjTnptoms should be carefully avoided. According to the seat of injury the extent of the body paralysed will vary, and hence the nature of the case, so far as symptoms and prognosis are concerned, is materially different. When the fracture exists below the second lumbar vertebrae, the more prominent symptoms are—more or less complete paralysis of the lower limbs, usually with loss of sensation; involuntary discharge of fEEces ; retention of urine ; and, when the upper lumbar or lower dorsal vertebras are affected, priapism is usually present When the injury has occurred in the zipper dorsal, or lo'wer cerdcal region., in addition to these symptoms there are—paralysis of one or both arms, difliculty of breathing and inability to cough or expectorate, from paralysis of the thoracic parietes, sluggishness of the bowels, with tympanitic distension of the abdomen. This tympanitic distension, although unimportant in itself^ becomes a great source of aggravation in