11 INFLAMJMATOllY HEAT. in the blood, but also, and mainly, in the textures of the part—more especially during the advanced stage of the process, when the formation of new and the destruction of old tissue is being rapidly carried on. From this canse, as weU as from mere increase of blood in the part, the tempera- ture is necessarHy elevated above its former and ordinary range; as is apparent to the touch, and proved by the test of the thermometer. But nerves of sensation, paiialdng in the general disorder of the part, have in consequence theii- functions excited and perverted. In truth, increased sensibility is one of the signs of the inflammatory process. And bearing tliis in mind, we can readily understand how the patient should feel a greater degree of heat than the thermometer would indicate. The in- flammatory heat, therefore, is partly actual, as ascertained by the touch or thermometer ;* partly the result of perverted nervous function, esti- mated only by the patient. This heat, like the redness which is so closely connected with it, is seldom very transitory ; indeed its fixedness is characteristic. Blushing brings heat as well as colour ; but both are evanescent. Heat must also be conjoined with other symptoms. In hectic, there is often a constant burning in the hands and feet j yeb no inflammatory change is there. 4. Pain.—Of all the symptoms of the inflammatory process, this is probably the most characteristic. Yet pain is not unlikely to deceive. Nerves of sensation, in the part inflaming, have, as already stated, theii- function excited and perverted; themselves partaking in the gene- ral change, they are compressed by the distended vessels, more especially when lodged in the same fibrous sheath; and such pressure is most materially increased by accumulation of the inflammatory product, parti- cularly if this be situated in an unyielding texture. Besides, at each throbbing impulse of the blood, the arterial vessels, themselves altered in their coats, undergo not only dilatation but elongation ; from this the nervi vasorum must more or less suffer, and they contribute something to the general amount of pain. That pressure is somewhat concerned in producing the pain may be inferred from the fact, that this symptom is invariably aggravated, and chiefly felt, when compression of the inflaming part is increased—as by the hand in peritonitis, or by inspiration in pleurisy. Over and above this, however, there is inflam- matory pain which cannot be accounted for on any mechanical theory. Inflammatory pain is not uniform, but influenced by the intensity of the disease and the nature of the part affected. The more rapid and in- tense the former, cceteris paribus, the greater the pain. In a part origi- nally sensitive more pain is felt than in one naturally dull—even although under a less amount of disease ; an erysipelas limited to the true skin, and tending only to serous change, is far more painful than suppura- tion of the subcutaneous areolar tissue. As formerly stated, pain is also modified according to the power of yielding in the part; inflammatory affection is more painful in bone than in skin; erysipelas is more j)ain- * The natural temperature of the body varies from 98° to 100°, at the heart and on the tnmk, and is about 92° at the extremities. In parts inflamed, the thermometer has indicated a rise to 101°, 104°, 105°, and even 107°, of Fahrenlicit.—(Article In- flammation, Cyclopcedia of Practical Medicine, p. 738.)