877 CHRONIC LARYNGITIS. follicles. These are seen on tlie back of the pharynx, in various stages and forms of morbid alteration—hyportrophied, vesicular, pustular, ulce- rated ; and the presence of similar cliangc within the larynx is marked by characteristic symptoms—cough, expectoration, hoarseness of voice, etc. This affection is particularly liable to occur in public speakers and clergymen; hence the term " dysphonia clericorum" in which, along with aU otlier chronic affections of the larynx, this disease is classed. If permitted to advance, the consequences are serious ; loss of voice, in- crease of structural change in the air passages, and impairment of the general health. Treatment consists in rest of the parts ; application of the nitrate of silver, in the manner already described, both to the fauces and within the larynx; and alteratives internally, according to circum- stances—arsenic, iodide of iron, Donovan's liquor, etc. Should the circumstances of the patient admit of it, a residence for one or two winters in Italy, Egypt, or Syria, will usually do more than any medi- cinal treatment to restore the parts to theii" normal condition. c. Chronic CEdema Glottidis.—This affection is more gradual and less marked than the acute form; but is not less dangerous; being liable to sudden and great exacerbation. The oedema is gradually formed, of more soUd consistence, and more uniformly diffused. Eut from slight exposure to cold, error in diet, or other casualty, acute accession is very prone to supervene ; speedily blocking up the passage, and causing the most distressing and dangerous dyspnoea ; partly by acute swelling, partly by entanglement of viscid mucus, partly by spasmodic or otherwise dis- ordered action of the muscles of the larynx. Sometimes, without any apparent source of aggravation, a fit of dyspnoea suddenly occurs ; de- pendent, probably, on the last-mentioned cause—spasm. Such a patient is never secure. One moment he may be walking abroad, conversing, or otherwise enjoying life with tolerable comfort; the next he may be prostrate, livid, and struggling for existence. A fatal result, however, seldom foUows the first of such seizures. Minor attacks usually precede the fatal event. The duty of the practitioner is, by suitable treatment, to arrest the sluggish process, to undo the change of structure, and to restore tone to the enfeebled system ; and, by every care, to provide against the appli- cation of such causes as are likely to induce aggravation. Should such aggravation occur, he must be on the alert. Medical treatment is con- tinued, with redoubled care and anxiety ; and the patient is closely watched. If the treatment prove unsatisfactory—fits of dyspnoea con- tmuing to recur—tracheotomy is certainly to be performed. Thus only can the tenure of life be rendered at all secure in such cases ; and then, too, the other remedial means may be expected to have a more salutary effect on the original disease—as in the case of simple thickening. After some time, the tube may be withdrawn, and the wound closed. How- ever, prognosis as to discontinuance of the tube is not so favourable as m the acute form. Resolution may be slow and imperfect; the part may never wholly regain its normal state ; perhaps respiration cannot be restored through the normal passages; and tlio tube, consequently, may require to be worn during the remainder of life. d. Ulceration of ihe Lcmjnx.—The larynx is liable to ulceration of