EEDUCIBLE HERNIA. 1008 tions for which such tumours are especially liable to be mistaken; but a consideration of these- had better be reserved till the different forms oi hernia, and affections with which they may be compounded, come under consideration. Reducible Hernia.—At some part of the abdominal parietes, usually after some unwonted exertion, a tumour such as we have described occui's. An enterocele is smooth, elastic, and more or less globular in form ; gurgling on pressure, and, when manipulated with the object of effecting its return, often abruptly receding—the reduction taking place per saltum. An epiplocele, on the contrary, is doughy and more ii-regular in form; it emits no noise ; and reduction is slow and gradual The treatment of reducible hernia consists of prevention, redwtion, and retention. Not unfrequently there are premonitory symptoms of protrusion, and it is then that Prevention is in our power. Pain, shght fulness, and distensile impulse on coughing, appear at an abdominal out- let, after unusual exertion; and uneasy sensations are experienced when the patient stands long, has to exert his arms in any way, or speaks with a loud voice, or with a sustained effort. Hernia is about to form. In order to avert it, the exciting cause is removed, by discontinuing all! undue abdominal exertion, as much as possible; unloading the bowels i by the use of gentle laxatives; and by careful regulation of the diet: avoiding fseculent accumulation or flatulent distension. And the pre- • disposing cause is met, by a well-fitting elastic truss being worn on the ; part, so as to strengthen what is weak in the parietes, whUe at the ; same time a mechanical obstacle is directly opposed to protrusion. Should hernia actually form, replacement, or Reduction, cannot be \ too soon effected; inasmuch as the parts when protruded are ever liable,, from apparently but slight causes, to the supervention of strangulation a state fraught with the utmost danger to life. Eeduction is effected by placing the patient recumbent, slightly ele- ■ vating the trunk, loosening the dress so as to remove all outward pressure ■ from the abdomen, and in short taking every means to relax the abdo- - minal parietes; then gentle, steady, and equable pressure is made with - one hand, upon the fundus and body of the sac, urging back the protru- ■ sion in the direction whence it has come, while with the other the con- • tents are diminished in calibre as they approach the neck of the sac.. Such manipulation is termed the Taxis. Retention is effected by continued and suitable pressure at the site of protrusion ; and this pressure is best made by means of a truss ; consist- - ing especially of a steel spring, with a compressing pad and counterpad i at the extremities. Of these instruments many varieties have been con- - structed; but, of late, opinion seems to have inclined, very justly, to- - wards a decided preference for the simple spring Avith its ordinary cork ; pad ; provided that the instrument is accurately adapted to each indivi- dual case ; the pad fitting nicely to the abdominal outlet—not too conical lest permanency of dilatation should be so maintained, and yet not so flat as unnecessarily to diffuse the pressure ; the spring, in the case of the inguinal and femoral forms of rupture, passing about two inches be- neath the crest of the ilium, grasping there firmly, and terminating in the counterpad, a little way beyond the spinous processes of the lumbar