7G2 TUMOURS OF THE CIIIiEK. Tumours of the Chech. Tumours form in front of tlie ear, and arc of various kinds. They may be simple, fatty, fibrous, or cystic. Calcareous formations, too, are not unfrequent; tlie earthy matter being deposited in the stroma of an enlarged lymphatic gland. In removing such growths by the knife tlio greatest caution should guide the movements of the hand; lest the branches of the x>ortio dura be cut across, and paralysis uf the cheek ensue ; and lest by division of tlie parotid duct, salivary fistula be established. In order to meet such indications, the dissection should be proceeded with in the direction of the endangered parts—horizontally; contravening the general rule of cutting in the direction of subjacent muscular fibre. Abscess of the Parotid Region. This may either be superficial, connected with inflammatory affec- tion of the lymj)hatics in this region, or deeply seated within the parotid fascia; from the density of structure, the formation of pus is attended with great tension, pain, and febrile irritation. Such suppurations may follow the crisis of fever, may depend upon the inflammatory change of the parotid gland accompanying salivation, or be due to disease of the temporal bone, neck of the jaw, or temporo-maxillaiy articulation. In such cases, if left to themselves, the pus collecting deeply may effect its escape by the meatus auditorius externus, by the j)harynx, or at the side of the root of the tongue. Whenever the limited induration of the parotid region is accompanied by redness of the surface, oedema of surrounding parts, and rigors, incision should be no longer delayed; and the opening should extend deeply enough to open the external wall of the parotid fascia. An incision between the angle of the jaw and the point of the mastoid process will effect this safely, its depth being regulated by the amount of swelling. Tumours in the Parotid Region. Tumours consisting of morbid degenerations of the parotid gland are fortunately rare. Tor this gland is so situated as to render the entire ex- tirpation of it, even in the healthy state, an impossible operation. Those cases which abound in the older works and cases of surgical writers, in which extirpation of this gland was supposed to have been effected, modern experience has proved to have consisted of fibrous or fihro-cystic growths forming within the gland, or within the parotid fascia, and which in their gradual enlargement have produced atrophy of the gland, so as to occupy its place, and become moulded to its form, dipping in som cases even behind the neck of the jaw into the pterygoid fossa. How= ever large, if the simple character of the growth has been well ascertain by attention to its physical characters and history, an operation may be undertaken witli the certainty of success. The incisions should be made at a point where the tumour is most prominent, and a crucial wound usually affords most room for a careful dissection, the edge of the knife being carried in successive strokes upon the surface of the tumour>