WOUNDS OF THE SCALP. 594 merly, it was the custom to cut away any pendulous portion; it hc\: cousidored incapable of re-attachment. 'Now, it is invariably preserved and both surfaces having been carefully cleansed, the flap, shaved, <> with the hair closely clipped off, is replaced; plasters, compresses, i sutures, as may seem most suitable, being employed to retain it in sit'i It seldom sloughs, even in part. Equally seldom, however, will it unit at once by adhesion. It suppurates, granulates, and becomes slowly, y firmly and satisfactorily, rejoined to the subjacent parts. When a c(;; gested and flabby state of the flap occurs, as often happens, during tl, siippuration, support by carefully applied bandaging is highly expedieu Cases have frequently been seen in which large portions of the scalp hii\ been removed; and, in one case of which we are cognizant, avulsion the entire hairy scalp and neighbouring integument occurred. 811 cases afford good opportunity for observing the comparative part play by contraction and reparative granulation in the formation of a cicatri as the fixed osseous surface beneath, and the displacement of the in gument in the ears and eyelids, afford definite indications of the chan.i effected. Por retaining dressings, and affording gentle support to the seal}) common handkerchief may be applied, as in Fig. 229. But when direct, accurate, and considerable pressure is required, t double-headed roller is preferable, as in Fig. 230. For retaining dressings, on any particular part of the head, the foi tailed bandage is often very useful, as in Fig. 231. But in ordinary circumstances a common net, such as forms a p; of the female head-gear presently in fashion, will be found admiral adapted for retaining any dressing in its place ; while it avoids the he ing of the head, which the more formal dressings certainly tend to produ IsTot unfrequently, the bone is rudely denuded of all its soft invc ments; as in heavy falls, when the head cor violently in contact with stone. The peric nium is rubbed off, and the bone is not 0: wholly exposed, but roughened in its 0 texture. In such cases, we are not to reft from re-adjusting the soft parts, in the he that exfoliation must necessarily ensue, ; that an open condition of the wound is coi quently to be desired. Many bones thus cumstanced recover entirely. They may, a considerable time, become white and dry their mere surface, as if undergoing near there; yet it is by no means unusual—w such necrosis is not favoured by the treatn employed—to find this diy bone revive, becoming vascular, brown, ■ exhalent, as before, and in due time contributing its quota to the gen Fig. 231. The four-tailed bandage ; of use in retaining dressings on any partic : part of the head. A piece of cloth split at either end : the central unsplit po; : placed on the dressing. The two posterior ends secured below the chin ; tlie tw( > terior ends, overlapping these, cross at the occiput, and are also secured belov | chin. —A fter Lonsdale.