862 ASPHYXIA. and seems to be in all respects safe, only when a tracheal aperture has previously been established ; and when, in consequence, irritability of the rima has been assuaged, and accidpnt by impaction there fully pro- vided against. A case or two of accidental success* Avill not suffice to overthrow the general principle here inculcated. This procedure, so far as avoiding the occurrence of laryngeal spasm, and consequent arrest of the foreign body at the rima glottidis, might be more satisfactorily and safely effected by having the patient deeply under the influence of clilo- roform before his inversion. It may happen that some considerable time—weeks or months—has elapsed since introduction of the foreign body, before aid is requested. Such lapse of time need not deter the surgeon from operating, if other circumstances prove favourable. For experience has shewn that removal of the offending matter, even at a distant date, may be sufficient to avert all serious ulterior consequences, f Asphyxia. In attempting resuscitation from asphyxia, it is necessary to main- tain artificial respiration ; and this is effected, in ordinary cases, by in- sufflation of air through the mouth or nostrils. But were the rima glottidis spasmodically closed, such ordinary means would be likely to inflate the stomach only, leaving the lungs unaffected. Under such cir- cumstances, therefore, one of two proceedings is necessary; to pass a tube into the windpipe from the mouth; or to perform bronchotomy. The operation of passing a tracheal tube is always difficult; and becomes especially so, even in an insensible patient, if the rima be closely shut— as in the case of suffocation by carbonic acid. It can readily be under- stood, therefore, how in many cases such an attempt is well superseded by the operation. Usually laryngotomy will suffice. One caution must be particularly attended to ; namely, to prevent blood from entering by the wound, and accumulating in the air passages. And should such entrance have been effected, means should be taken, by suction applied to the wound, to accomplish its expulsion. In cases of Suspension by the neck, it is plain that bronchotomy cannot avert a serious result, and may probably fail in the attempt at resuscitation. For, the cause of death is not from constriction of the windpipe only; but by concussion of the brain and spinal cord, and by interference with the jugular circulation. And these latter circumstances may of themselves be sufficient to produce a fatal issue, independently of t direct interference with respiration. Displacement of the cervical verte- brae seldom occurs from this cause. Injuries of the Hyoid Bone and Larynx, The hyoid bone has been fractured by the pressure of the rope in hanging, by grasping the tliroat between the thumb and fingers in gar- * Northern Journal, Feb. 1845, p. 220. + London and Edinburgli Medical Journal, August 1842, p. 722 ; and Listen s Practical Surgery, p. 371.