AMPUTATION OF THE LEG. 1373 Fig. 388. Amptitation of the leg. tlie angles of the flap ; and further retraction of the soft parts is effected, so as to denude the bones for about an inch higher; and there they are sawn through. In dividing them, the prominent spine of the tibia should be cut off obliquely, lest its sharp point should afterwards make its way through the centre of the flap. In sawing the two bones the fibula should be first divided. When the operation by transfixion is practised, the flap is obtained - almost entirely from behind. The same preliminaries having been arranged, the surgeon indicates the posterior margins of the tibia and fibula by the forefinger and thumb of the left hand, and transfixes im- mediately above them, passing his knife as closely as possible to the posterior surface of the bones; and by carrying it downwards and out- wards, a long posterior flap is formed. The knife is then laid on at the upper margin of the wound; by a sweep in front, in a semilunar direc- tion, the integument is divided ; this having been retracted, the inter- osseous space is cleared by the knife passed between the bones ; and the saw is then applied as close to the soft parts as possible. Bleeding having been arrested, the flap is brought up and secured. "With the alleged object of facihtating transfixion, and guarding against locking of the knife between the bones, a little alteration in the procedure may be practised. Supposing that the right leg is operated on, the point of the blade is entered on the outside of the fibula, about an inch, or more, beneath the point where transfixion is contem- plated ; with a sawing motion the instrument is carried upwards along the outside of the bone, until the site of transfixion is reached ; the blade is then carried across sweepingly in front, to form the anterior wound; and, the point having arrived at the inside of the tibia, transfixion is effected—the instrument emerging at the upper part of the wound for- merly made on the outside of the fibula. In operating immediately below the knee, the fibula is sawn across, along with the tibia. Disarticulation of the head of the former bone