TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. 469 water in a suitable position as regards the part, and " placing in it a few- threads of lamp cotton, one extremity of which should reach to the bot- tom of the bottle, the other hang out at its mouth." In this way a species of syphon is obtained, with a constant dropping on the lint which invests the part. In warm weather, or in hot climates, ice may be advantageously substituted for water; a large fragment suspended in a canvas bag over the stump or wounded part, and the droppings allowed to run over the surface, will in such circumstances prove grateful to both part and patient. By such treatment, not only is oozing more speedily arrested, and the formation of an interposed coagulum pre- vented ; but, also, nervous and vascular excitement are repressed; conse- quently, a rise towards inflammatory excess is opposed; and the minor grade of the process, favourable to adhesion, is secured. Besides, the collateral circulation, tending to re-open the smaller arterial orifices, is moderated ; and recurrence of bleeding is rendered improbable. After a time—in some cases a few minutes only suffice—all oozing ceases, and the cut surfaces become of a glazed appearance. Then is the fiivourable opportunity for efi'ecting complete coaptation ; without any foreign substance interposed between the cut surfaces, and with the plastic material of reunion already in process of formation. By longer delay, we should probably incur the risk of undue stimulus, from atmos- pheric exposure. If it be objected, that when some considerable time elapses between the infliction of the wound and its final dressing, fresh and unnecessary pain is occasioned—such objection may be sufficiently met by the em- ployment of anaesthesia. And now the question arises—What is the preferable mode of effect- ing accurate apposition of the wound 1 It is not the insertion of numer- ous, dragging stitches ; the application of much impervious and irritating plaster ; nor the pressure and heat of pledgets, compresses, and bandage. The object is not to pull, press, heat, hide, and irritate the parts; but simply to retain them in close yet easy contact. The preferable agents of coapta- tion are, position, and plaster; and, in many wounds, these alone are quite sufficient. But, in others, where there is loss of substance—or when, from any other cause, approximation is not easily effected— sutures are indispensable; otherwise the wound would gape, and could not adhere. Sutures are of different kinds. Those most commonly employed are termed Interrupted. Till of late the needle was armed with thread or silk. Now these are superseded by silver or iron wire— fine and ductile—quite as easy of application, and much less irritant by their lodgment in the part* The needle so armed is passed through the margins of the wound, so as to include the whole thickness of skin and a portion of areolar tissue ; entering and emerging some little way from the margin of the line of incision. The wire is secured by a double knot or twist; with sufficient tightness to make approximation complete at that point, yet not so tightly as to pucker the wound, or bruise the included textures. These sutures are to be as few in number as possible ; and, in all cases, their use is temporary. By some, it is For this great practical improvement in surgery we are indebted to Dr. Sims of J^iiW York.