AUXILIARIES TO THE TAXIS. 1016 cess ; repeated, if necessary, every two hours ;* but iii a case of acute struugulation such delay might prove very dangerous. 9. Purgatives ai-e in all cases of strangulation most unwarrantable. Tlie bowel is locked; and the stimulus of purging, quite unable to undo the locking, acts but injuriously, in applying a stimulus which cannot be obeyed, and aggravating an already crescent inflammatory process. In the case of iji- carceration, the wary use of purgatives is often serviceable, in unloading the protruded bowel ; but in the tighter degree of constriction, causuig strangulation, they are never to be thouglit of. 10. Enemata, however, have a different character. When simple and bland, however freely and largely administered, they have not the pernicious properties of purga- tives—more especially of those Avhich are drastic and given by the mouth. Besides, they are positively of use, by disburthening the lower bowels of their contents, both solid and gaseous ; and so making room within the abdominal cavity for reception of the extruded parts. Ex- periment would also lead us to suppose that they have a mechanical tendency to extricate, by exciting traction, from mthin, on the constricted and protruded bowel.t 11. The long elastic Redum-tuhe is also both safe and useful, when passed high and cautiously, so as to reach the colon; the object being to evacuate the gaseous contents of the lower bowels more thorouglily than enemata can do, and so to make room within the abdomen. But, obviously, such a proceeding is only appli- cable to those cases in which distension of the lower bowels exists. 12. Some auxiliaries affect the tumour mainly. Certain cases, we have already seen, render it necessary that local blood-letting should precede the taxis. Fomentation, as already stated, is worse than useless. But the application of Cold is sometimes of the greatest service. Applied indiscriminately, it will do harm; but limit its use to those cases Avhich are chronic in their progress, in which the signs of obstruction plainly precede those of inflammatory change, and in which the in- flammatory process affecting the tumour is not only slight but scarcely begun—then the effect is often most favourable. The gaseous contents being condensed, bulk is diminished ; muscular energy is probably some- what lowered, and space is gained ; and, perhaps by puckering the invest- ' ments of the tumour, some little reductive pressure may be so exerted. Act as it may, there is no doubt that the local application of cold tends wonderfully to assist the taxis, in the class of cases just described. It may be applied by sprinkling the tumour and surrounding parts with lether, and keeping up a continuously rapid evaporation by directing a current of air upon the part. Should tliis fail, great care must be taken for some time not to apply heat suddenly, by fomentation or bath, or otherwise to cause rapid exaltation of temperature, for very obvious reasons. Ice and freezing mixtures are less suitable; being apt, by doing too much, to act injuriously on the hernial contents. 13. Acu- puncture has been proposed, when the constricted bowel is obviously dis- tended by gaseous contents. But the use of cold is likely to obtain the same end, as effectually, and more safely. 14. Posture may be con- sidered rather as a part of the taxis, than as auxiliary to it; so invariably * Brit, and For. Rev., Jan. 1849, p. 271. t Lancet, No. 1035, p. 468.