38 VABIETIES OF THE INFLAMMATORY PEOCESS. process may be reached at once ; from intensity of effect in the original cause of irritation—extent of texture implicated in the modification of the nutritive, nervous, and vascular functions thereby produced—deficiency of power in part or system—or a combination of all of these conditions. Or the intervening stages of suppuration and ulceration may have been either barely touched at, or more or less dwelt upon. The broken up texture, softened, and infiltrated by serous, fibrinous, and purulent results, as well as by extravasated blood, may have its circulation wholly arrested, as by the pressure of confined inflammatory products ; and it dies ; not by particles, slowly and almost imperceptibly, but x^lainly, at once, and in mass ; or vital power in the part and its nutrient centres ceases from exhaustion, circulation and nutritive change and exchange are arrested ; and now, in both instances, chemical change advances unopposed, and the part is decomposed by putrescence. When the i)art so dying is small, it is called a slough, and the process that of sloughing; when large, as, e.g., when implicating the whole thickness of a limb, the part, Avhen dead, is called a sphacelus, the process sphacelation. VAEIETIES OF THE INFLAMMATOEY PEOCESS. Many and various have been the subdivisions connected with this part of the subject. One of the most imj)ortant is that into Acute and Chronic. In the one case, the disease advances with more or less rapidity through its various stages; and, having reached a climax more or less elevated—suppuration, ulceration, or gangrene—declines with a corresiDonding degree of alacrity. In the other, the time occupied is not as in the former a period of days or hours, but perhaps of weeks or months. The disease begins of a sluggish type, and retains that character throughoat; dwelHng long on the minor stages; seldom reaching to suppuration or ulceration, and still more seldom to gangrene; hovering rather on the constructive side of the suppurative crisis, and consequently dangerous to normal structure by favouring jplastic change and its sub- sequent organization. When, after having reached its climax—however low—it begins to subside, the decline is proportionally gradual; and often proves unsatisfactory, because not only tedious but imperfect. The two forms may be commingled. The disease, though at first acute, receives a check, by treatment or other"^\dse, and does not wholly recede, but merely dwindles down into a subdued form, and there re- mains. Or the inflammatory process may be at first, and for long, chronic; and by the application of renewed stimulus, the acute form may be super- added, or, as it were, ingrafted on the chronic. And this is an occurrence invariably fraught with imminent danger; for, by the chronic form, struc- ture has been materially changed, as well as vital j^ower impaired; and the part is so rendered an almost unresisting prey to the acute attack. Such a succession of the forms is very hkely to be induced by injudicious or rash treatment; and ought to be carefully guarded against. The acute we may consider as representing the ordinary type of the inflammatory process ; already discussed. A few words wiU sufllice