252 PHLEGMONOUS ERYSIPELAS. The liemorrliage is direct and copious; and is permitted to continue until enough shall have flowed for satisfactory evacuation of tlie part! And, as formerly stated, in many cases the loss is carried a step further *• so as, at the same time, to afford a sedative result upon the system! Should the flow threaten to prove excessive, the part is elevated, and pressure temporarily applied, on the bleeding point or points, eitlier by the finger, or by lint and bandage. It is very seldom that any vessel is wounded of sufficient size, or activity, to require a ligature. In some cases, when we have hazardous local change, mth much impairment of general power, we are constrained to incise, and yet very loath to shed blood. In such circumstances, the wound will be as limited as possible in both extent and depth ; and temporary pressure, with elevation of the part, will be had recourse to, almost immediately after the incising. After bleeding has ceased, pressure—if employed—is withdrawn; fomentation is resumed; and during the intervals of fomentation, a light warm poultice is applied. The wound itself suppurates ; and, not unfre- quently, a thin ash-coloured slough coats its margins. Eut the surround- ing areolar tissue retains its integrity; its abnormal Liquid contents gradually exude ; swelling falls rapidly; redness, pain, and tension all disappear. This resolutive process will be found far advanced, in the course of two or three days; and then both fomentation and poultice, but especially the latter, are to be discontinued. To employ them longer, would be to render certain the occurrence of those untoward relaxing and suppurative results, formerly stated. Fomentation is altogether laid aside; and, instead of poultice to the whole surface, tepid water-dressing is applied merely to the wound or wounds ; changed as often as the discharge—at first usually profuse—^renders necessary, on the score of cleanliness. I To the general surface, early support by uniform bandaging is ex- pedient ; for like reasons as in the simple form, but more urgently de- manded. At first, let the application be especially gentle ; otherwise the stimulus may reinduce the inflammatory process. And in those neglected cases in which suppuration has occurred, areolar tissue has sloughed, and skin has been to some extent undermined, caution in bandaging is most necessary throughout; otherwise injury may be done to vessels more or less isolated by the destruction which has raged in the common textures around. At the same time that local support becomes expedient, so does support of the system. The wounds, on subsidence of the general swelling, shrink greatly in their dimensions ; and as both part and system recover tone, discharge is diminished, and healthy granulation sets in. During separation of the superficial sloughs, water-dressing is applied. After separation, this is more or less medicated ; as the character of the granulations may seem to require. Not unfrequently, there is a tendency to exuberance of granulation; delaying the cure, and producing an unseemly bulging cicatrix, when that is at length obtained. This is best obviated by the early adoption, and due maintenance, of well-arranged pressure. Erysipelas has been thought contagious ; and more especially the phlegmonous form. On tliis siibject, however, opinion is found to vary. And, during the unsettled state of the theoretical question, it is well to