703 AKTIFICIAL PUPIL. ^itreous humoui'—aro in a tolerably sound condition, i.e., capable of re- M-uizing light, and the shadow of objects passing between the eye and ht; that the eye has not only ceased to be the seat of all inflammatory oction, but, also, that it is not prone to resume this on the application [■ a fresh exciting cause. An operation is also very properly held to be i,>xpedient, so long as the patient enjoys a useful degree of vision with oilier eye j and it is plainly contra-indicated, when one eye only is .octcd. Four distinct modes of operation are practised; all implying inter- ••ence with the iris—so as to make a sufficient gap in it—opposite a ar portion of the cornea. The desired space in the iris may be ob- iued by incision, excision, laceration, and ligature. Accordingly, the oration is said to be by Coretomia, Corectomia, Goredialijsis, and i.ildesis. The situation of the proposed new pujjil requires consideration. The litre of the iris is of course the best position ; but when this is ..1 practicable from central opacity of the cornea, or other cause, the nasal 'de is to be preferred. It may also be made on the temporal or lower "des; but when placed above the centre, it is apt to be covered by the upper elid. A small pupil, too, is generally more useful than a large aperture. The patient, by careful attention to his general health, should be laced in a condition as favoiurable as possible for the avoidance of the ammatory process. Coretomia, or incision, is performed in cases where the greater por- on of the cornea is clear, and where the iris, healthy and mithickened inflammatory change in its texture, is in a state of tension, with the ipil closed ; also where we are confident either that the lens is gone .g. in cases of great lorolapsus iridis after extraction), or that there mains merely an opaque capsule. It 2 1 ay be performed either through the lerotic, or through the cornea. In erating through the sclerotic, which s the method used by Cheselden d Sir W. Adams, an iris-knife is in- duced perpendicularly through this uic about a line from its junction with e cornea, the cutting edge turned ckwarcls ; carrying the point of the ife forwards, it is made to pierce the iris at about a line from its poral margin ; the instrument is then carried across the front of the sin the anterior chamber, to the nasal side of the cornea (Fig. 257, ; and, while it is withdrawn, gentle pressure should be made with its upon the iris, the tense fibres of which will separate when divided, fl an elliptical or ovoid pupil will be the result. The fibres of the iris uld be cut to the extent of about a half of the diameter of the mbrane. When the lens is opaque, or an opaque capsule is present, IS generally the case, it should be broken up at the same time. Fig. 257. 1, Coretomia through the sclerotic. The knife introduced—ratlicr far • 2, Coretomia througli the cornea, shewing the lines of the incisions. 3, The 'c after the oponition. 4, Coredialysis, or separation.—From Whahton Jonics. Fig. 257.