COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. 607 repose of heavy sleepei-s; it is a symptom of untoward portent. Tho pulse is distinct and full, usually slow, hut often at first not much altered as to frequency—not unfrequently intermittent; in concussion it was from the first rapid, low, and feeble, perhaps whoUy impercep- tible. When the morbid condition is fully developed, loss of conscious- ness is more complete than in concussion ; the patient cannot be roused by any movement or noise. Loss of sensation, too, is more complete ; he may be pinched, or burnt, without in any way evincing perception of pain. Special sense is wholly dormant; he neither sees, nor hears, nor smells; at least no result follows the application of stimuli to the eye, ear, or nose. Power of motion is wholly gone ; the voluntary muscles are relaxed, flabby, and powerless; the hmbs lie loose and incapable of motion. The eye is fixed; its pupils are dilated and insensible to light. The skin is of a normal temperature, or perhaps even warmer; not tinfrequently wet with perspiration; in concussion it was cold, pale, and shrunken. The sphincters are relaxed; fseces pass involuntarily. Expulsive muscles are similarly affected; the urine is, in consequence, retained; or, from paralysis of th6 sphincter as well, the urine may pass off involuntarily, not in a stream, but by drops. Such is the general character of the symptoms peculiar to compres- sion ; varying, of course, in degree, according to the amount or nature of the injury sustained. They are of immediate or secondary accession, according to the cause ; immediate, when the consequence of sudden hemorrhage, depressed bone, or impacted foreign body ; secondary, when the result of tardy extravasation, siippuration, or inflammatory product. However originating, they are, after a time, masked and modified by the results of the inflammatory process which seldom fails to become estab- lished in the injured part. But the brain has the power of recovering from the eff'ects of pressure to a certain extent, even although the agent of compression undergo no alteration; the organ seeming to accommodate itseK gradually to its change of circumstances. Thus, in depressed fracture, symptoms of com- pression may be at first marked and even urgent; and yet may pass off in a day or two, without any elevation of the depressed portion of bone. This being borne in mind, we can readily understand how, by the time that the inflammatory process has begun, the symptoms of com- pression, at fiist considerable, may have in a great measure passed away; and how the case, consequently, may for a time present only the ordinary symptoms of urgent inflammatory affection of the brain and its mem- branes. This is something more than mere masking of compression by the inflammatory process; it is supersedence. Certain functions of the brain are plainly re-estabhshed, though perverted ; convulsive move- ments of the limbs occur, and dehrium may supervene. Compression may, like concussion, prove directly fatal; the patient perishing by coma. Or—when the cause of pressure is removed, or eVen as already stated, independently of this—the symptoms gradually abate, and the patient slowly recovers. Or, ere yet any great mitigation in the symptoms of compression have occurred, those of an urgent inflammatory proce.ss kindled in the injured part become established ; and these prove iital. Or a similarly fatal issue may take place, through inflammatory