810 STRICTURE OF THE PHARYNX. into the abscess-sac might be avoided, hy passing the feeding-tube from time to time, or by maintaining life by nutrient enemata ; tints, as far as possible, leaving the oesophagus and stomach in a state of perfect repose.' But the diagnosis of such a condition is seldom more than a mere sus- picion. "When the abscess opens upon the surface as already described and if the matter has not a sufficiently free vent, the removal oi' a portion of the sternum with the trephine, or of the cartilage of the ribs by the bone-pliers, may be resorted to. Stricture of the Pharynx and (Esopharjus. Constriction of the gullet may be due to permanent structural change, to extensive compression of the canal, or to temporary spasm of its muscular structures. The permanent structural change may either be simple or carcinomatous in its nature. (1.) Si7nple stricture may be the result of inflammatory struc- tural change in the mucous membrane, with accumulation of plastic material in the submucous tissue; and on the latter occurrence the con- traction mainly depends. Or it may be the consequence of ulceration of the membrane, with or without suppuration in the parts beneath, caused by the accidental swallowing of caustics, boiling water, etc., or by specific affections, as in some cases of tertiary syphilis. The prominent and cliaracteristic symptom is difficulty of swallowing, more especially of solid and imperfectly masticated food ; the patient complauis of the food be- coming either partially or completely arrested, and in the instance of the constriction occupying the upper part of the canal, its arrest may be recog- nized by the finger of the surgeon. The difficulty in deglutition as it in- creases, which it usually does slowly and insidiously, leads the patient to • masticate the food more and more carefully, while the pain shooting into • the back of the neck and shoulders, produced by the portions of food; I passing the constricted part, communicates such an appearance of anguish i to the countenance of the patient, will seldom fail to arrest the atten- • tion of the practitioner, especially when coupled \dih. the history of the • case, the site of uneasiness and obstruction, and the emaciation which i soon becomes established. But as these symptoms may be simulated I either intentionally or from the existence of hysteria, it is well to deter- - mine with certainty the existence of the change, by the use of a probaiig : or gum-elastic bougie, whose passage downwards is resisted or arrested i by the contracted part. The ordinary site of contraction in simple stric- - ture is at that part of the canal which is naturally most narrow—the i junction of the jAarynx and oesophagus. (2.) Malignant contraction is produced by carcinomatous formation either commencing in, or secondarily involving the mucous and submucous-. tissues; the surface speedily assumes the open condition, and is then i attended with a copious muco-purulent and bloody discharge. This > affection may occur in any portion of the canal; but the upper part of the « oesophagus, and immediately above the cardiac extremity of the stomach, are the most common sites. When situated within the thorax, the diag-: nosis of stricture, from obstruction afforded by extrinsic aneurismal presr • STire, must be carefully made out. When the malignant disease occupies