DESTHUCTION OF BONE IN JOINTS. 3G5 more, let it be recollected that tlie change produced by this disease has sometimes been so great as to liave led even experienced pathologists to believe, when the post-mortem result was before them, that a fracture had really taken place (Cruveilhier's Anat. Patholog., liv. ix., p. 10). Treatment in the early stage of this complex affection should be both general and local—repose, leeching, cupping, blistering, the use of the hot douche, and Avarni salt-Avater bathing, constituting the essentials of the latter. The constitutional treatment should consist in the careful regulation of diet, a moderate use of animal food, avoidance of all raw vegetables; while acid fruits, sugar, fermented and spirituous liquors, should be strictly forbidden. Mercurials, colchicum, potash, magnesia, iodine, and cod-liver oil, will be found very serviceable—pro re natd. "When there is much pain opiates must be given, and the button cautery will be found an important means for effecting local counter-irritation. The actual cautery is not nearly so useful as in the acute affections of the articulating ends of bones. In the later stage of the affection, moderate exercise of the joint will prove very beneficial, and the local use of cod- liver oil in some cases apparently produces a salutary effect. For patients whose circumstances admit of it, a residence in a warm climate, or a resort to the baths of Bath, Buxton, Aix-la-Chapelle, Wildbad, or "Wies- baden, should be recommended. "With some, regular shampooing, the vapour-bath, and the use of sulphur and guaiacum internally, have been found signally serviceable. Destruction of Bone in Joints. 1. Articular Ulcer.—This is connected with the destruction of carti- lage just described. The disorganization may extend from the synovial membrane to the cartilage, and thence to the subjacent bone. Or the bone may be first involved, and the cartilage suffer secondarily ; partly by death and exfoliation, and partly by corpuscular formation and con- sequent disintegration. The loss of substance may be more or less ex- tensive ; but is seldom great. The symptoms are similar to those of destruction of cartilage in its advanced stage. So is the treatment; con- sisting mainly of rest and counter-irritation. According to the form, extent, and progress of the disease, the cure will be by simple healing, with or without porcellanous formation ; or by anchylosis. 2. Articular Caries.—This is the more intractable and extensive destruction of bone ; which may be either simple, and then generally due to the irritation kept up by the presence of two ulcerated spicular osseous surfaces against each other; or it may be preceded and ac- companied by scrofulous change. It may originate in disorganization of cartilage ; the exposed bone perhaps being at first simply ulcerated, and afterwards degenerating into the truly carious condition. Or the original disease may be gelatinous degeneration of the synovial mem- brane ; the articulating ends of the bones becoming carious on esta- blishment of the suppurative stage. Or the carious state may origi- nate m the cancellated texture; cartilage and synovial membrane be- coming secondarily involved. And then there is, usually, the pre- cedence and co-existence of a scrofulous ostitic change : the case beinji