TREATMENT OF BRUISE. 573 early incision should be practised unhesitatingly j according to general principles. i i • Two popular errors obtain in the treatment of sprain and bruise; namely, the too early use of leeches and of friction. Nothing is more common than to apply leeches immediately after infliction of the injury, in order that they may suck out the extravasated, or " bruised blood," as it is called. These little animals drink only from the running stream, drawing for themselves from the blood-vessels; and, therefore, they fail to perform Avhat is expected of them by their employers. At the same time, their bites are likely to set up inflammatory mischief in the weakened and undermined skin, probably followed by extensive slough- ing, and consequent exposure of the whole sanguineous depot. They may be required at a later period ; to moderate inflammatory accession, occurring as a secondary result of the injury, and then should be applied, not where the skin is most discoloured, and therefore probably most weakened, but where the part is most nearly normal in appearance. Friction, in like manner, is often very improperly employed from the first. The result is, to induce and aggravate the inflammatory process— an event which it ought to be our main endeavour to avoid. Friction is expedient only after the period of excitement has passed ; and, even then, it must be at first employed gently and with caution. By the term Eccliymosis is understood, discoloration produced by extravasation of blood beneath skin or mucous membrane, however in- duced ; usually, however, the result of a bruise, or oblique wound ; but sometimes, as in rupture of muscular fibres, unconnected with any ex- ternal injury. From its importance and constancy as a symptom of bruise, this dis- coloration requires to be distinguished (1) from that which is occasioned by advancing gangrene, (2) from suggilation or post-mortem livor, and (3) from the extravasations of purpura hemorrhagica. In gangrene, the discoloration of the tissues is at first slight, and gradually intensifies in depth of tint as the part becomes more fully mortified ; its develop- ment is therefore accompanied by diminished temperature and sensibility in the part, and with usually more or less crepitation from the presence of gas evolved in the process of putrefaction, with the formation of phlyctenae, and easy peeHng of the cuticle, as in a dead body. In bruise, the discoloration is first dark, and gradually becomes fainter and fainter; except, indeed, where the extravasation is deep seated, and slowly makes its way towards a dependent surface long after the receipt of injury. The temperature and sensibility of the part are usually increased, there is no crepitation from air, except in rare instances where emphysema exists ; and then this is coetaneous with the injury {e.g., in the eyelids, with frac- ui'e of the nasal bones and emphysema), and disappears within a few ours or days at the most. When vesicles form, they are fixed and ttended by inflammatory symptoms, and'the neighbouring cuticle does _ ot peel on pressure from the cutis beneath. The discoloration of livor ? easily recognised by its dependent position, and by making an incision nrough the textures concerned; when the dark colour will be found due, ot to extravasation of blood, but to congestion of the venous radicles Jid capi[]arie.s of the skin, with, in some cases, staining of the true skin