1138 TREATMENT OF GONORRHOiA. around the nozzle of tlie syringe, so as to distend the canal, and thus act upon the mucous follicles and crypts. On withdrawing the syringe, the point of the penis, still compressed, is held erect for some time, so as to keep the fluid in contact with the affected part. The operation may be repeated three or four times in the day; or, when the injection used is weak, still more frequently ; but should over- excitement or a sense of prostatic irritation ensue, the injection must be wholly discontinued for a time ; and when resumed, it must be employed very cautiously. As already stated, its strength is gradually increased ; and if it seem to have lost its influence, it is better to change to a diff'erent kind, than to increase the first to a strength at all formidable. In fact, the principle of stimulation is conducted as in the use of lotions to a weak sore on the surface of the body. In ob- stinate cases, benefit may be derived from nitrate of silver rubbed on the perineum, so as to act as a smart counter-irritant. By some, espe- cially army surgeons, blistering one or both groins, with the administra- tion of diluents internally, while the patient is confined to bed upon a spare diet, has been found eminently efiicacious. In the truly chronic stage, large doses of cubebs (51.) may be given with advantage; regard always being had to the kidneys, lest over- stimulation occur there. And sometimes rapid amendment may be ob- tained by cubebs combined with copaiba and alum and rhatany, in the form of paste, given in wafer paper—an admirable remedy for the chronic cases, but too stimulant for the early stage, when attended by acute symptoms. These internal remedies may be employed along with injec- tion. Or they may be alternated. But in no case should injection be long and continuously persevered with; otherwise a discharge, due to the irritation created by the stimulant, may be maintained, keeping up a state of congestion in the membrane, delaying the cure, and rendering the occurrence of stricture very probable. In such circumstances, the use of cold water as an injection, and the administration of iron tonics inter- nally are advisable. In some very tedious and obstinate cases, acute reaccession is to be desiderated j and this can easily be induced by the employment of either the porte-caustique, or the syringe, to act upon the urethral mucous membrane, with the nitrate of silver. Or the iodide of iron, of the strength of a quarter of a grain to the ounce of water, will form a good injection. Tincture of aloes diluted with water, decoction of guiacum, syrup of Tolu, or balsam of Peru, suspended in mucilage, have all en- joyed a reputation, as forming trustworthy injections in that most capri- cious and tedious disease. Sometimes the affection is chronic from the first; a slight local irritation furnishing the discharge. This is liable to occur in patients of sluggish temperament, who have had many attacks of the disease. In such cases, antiphlogistics are never suitable; and the stimulant mode of treatment is adopted at once. The casualties of the disease are met as they occur. Chordee, as we have seen, requires cool covering of the parts at night, a suitable moral treatment, and sedatives. The attack, when spasmodic, may be moderated by immersion of the organ in cold water. Hemorrhage from the urethra,