1175 TKEATMENT OF CUTANEOUS AFFECTIONS. The natm-e of this constitutional treatment differs according to the views held by each individual practitioner as to the effects of certain remedies, to which for long has Leen accorded the power of relieving the system of the poison. Others again, regarding the eruption as a natural effort of the frame to relieve itself of the morbid condition which has been superinduced, object to the employment of any remedial agent which shall effect the removal of the virus by any other channel than the cutaneous secretion. No doubt the syphilitic condition left to itself will in process of time undergo a spontaneous cure; but how long a time may be occupied in that cleansing process cannot be determined by the data we at present possess; unless indeed we regard the method of cure by sypMlization—by the use of the decoction of the woods—by the use of purgatives, diuretics, sudorifics—by dietetics and the hunger cure— as equivalent to mere temporizing with the patient. Then, if this is granted, the time is still found to be very uncertain—six months, nine months, or a year, being the periods usually assigned as the probable dates within which a patient may expect to find himself rid of the ten- dency to the occurrence of cutaneous manifestations. We must, there- fore, bear in mind that the mere fact of the disappearance of every trace of eruption will not necessarily secure the patient against the chance of a reappearance of the enemy in a site, at a period, and in a form which was least expected. The special advantages of each of the methods of systemic treatment, now in common use, we must reserve for separate considera- tion. Meanwhile, taking it for granted that the constitutional manage- ment is attended to, we will consider the treatment of the local affections. During the early stage of the disease, while nyctalcopic pains, febrile symptoms, and chloro-aneemia exist, the hot-air, vapour, or Turkish bath, will be found very advantageous in determining cutaneous congestion, and hurrying on the eruptive symptoms ; relieving thereby internal organs —more particularly the blood-forming glands, which appear to be em- barrassed at this stage of the disease. The effect of warm-bathing is therefore advantageous in a threefold manner—1. By promoting clean- liness and free transpiration. 2. By hurrying on the cutaneous evolution. 3. By relieving the early febricular symptoms. These baths, if properly conducted, have no tendency to weaken the patient, or to make him usceptible of cold. To secure him from these risks—which lead many •0 employ warm-bathing with great distrust in its advantages—certain recautions should be taken. The bath should not be too hot, nor continued for too long a time; it should be taken in the evening, and ot too soon after a meal; two baths in the week are sufficient; and cold bathing in the morning need not be interrupted. There is seldom ny advantage in medicating the bath, especially if mere glutinous sub- tances or detergents are what is designed to be employed. Of course, mercurials soluble in water, iodine, or bromine, do act, and that very powerfully; while certain salines may produce some further effect than would reside in water alone—especially the natural thermal saline springs. When eruptive affections appear upon the face, and are of a non- ulcerative type, a lotion containing corrosive sublimate will often serve to reUeve the patient from what he feels to be a plague mark. For a like purpose mercurial and iodine ointments are in common use, and act