AMPUTATION OF THE TOES. 13G5 the humerus having hceu turned forwards, the remaining soft parts in the floor of the axilla are last of all severed with a sweep of the knife, wliich keeps to the lino of incision which bad already been traced super- ficially. Such an operation can only be required in cases of large tumours, involving both the scapula and the upper part of the shaft of the humerus. In cases of injury, no fixed plan can be laid down for the incisions ; they must vary according to the circumstances of the case. Probably the greater part of the wound will be found already made. Amputations of the Lower Extremity. Amputation of the Toes. The PJialcmges of the toes may be removed in the same way as those of the fingers. In any toe, however, except the great one, when ampu- tation is required, there is no advantage gained by preserving a portion. The amputation of the lesser toes is therefore usually practised at the metatarso-phalangeal joint. In effecting this, it should be borne in mind that the articulation lies considerably further back than the corresponding joint of the superior extremity ; and the incisions require to be made accordingly. The site of the articulation is made out by recognition of the extremity of the metatarsal bone, which is most easily made out upon the plantar surface. There is no absolute necessity for removing the head of the metatarsal bone; on the contrary—the more ample the base of support, the more efficient is the function of the foot. In cases of injury of the great toe, however, or in cases of disease affecting its metatarso-phalangeal articulation, it had better be taken away ; in cases of injury—because all the soft parts, which can be retained to form flaps, will not cover it; in the case of disease—because its articulating surface partakes in the morbid change which necessitates operation. When the head of the bone is to be left, the antero-posterior flaps require to extend aa^ far forwards as the web between it and the second toe ; and in the oval operation, the incision should not separate to encircle the toe tiU within a quarter of an inch of the same point. The Metatarsal Bone of the Great Toe is not unfequently diseased in the greater part of its extent. It may be disarticulated ; but it is better to divide it a little below its base, if possible, in order to leave the tendinous insertion there undisturbed. By a bistoury, such a flap is indicated as will efficiently cover the wound. The instrument is entered over the tarsal articulation, on the dorsum of the bone, and is carried down, along the dorsum, until the metatarsal joint is reached ; a sweep is then made on the inner side of this—or rather a little below the joint; and the incision is continued upwards, leaving an interspace of about an inch and a half between the returning line of woUud and that Avhich descended. The flap, thus indicated, is dissected up; the bone, along with the corresponding toe, is isolated from its connections—carrying the point of the knife as close to the bone as possible, so as not to injure the soft parts in the sole of the foot—and is either disarticulated, or cut