WOUNDS OF TflE LUNG. 969 cavity, and tlu-ougli the external woinul. And the hemorrhage, coming from .so vascular an organ as the lung, especially when the Avound impli- cates the base, is likely to prove formidable, if not speedily ftital. Here, too the woimded lung admits of complete contraction, with, in most cases, though not always, the rapid induction of pneumo-thorax—whether the external AVOund be free or punctured—the air finding its way with each inspiratory movement from tlie trachea and its branches, through the Avound of the lung into the pleural cavity. When the wound is a fi-ee one, the atmospheric equilibrium, within and external to the lung, permits the contractile tendency of the organ to develope its full result; while on the other hand, Avhen the Avound is pvinctured, the air finding a more ready access to the pleural cavity through the Avound in the lung, and not readily escaping thence, either through the wound in the hmg, or through that in the parietes, tends with each expiratory effort to produce more complete collapse of the pulmonary tissue. The usual signs of this injury are—a state of system bordering on collapse, great anxiety of countenance, difficult breathing, bleeding from the wound, and expectoration of frothy florid arterial blood, with traumatopnoea, Avhen the wound is patent, or the development of emphysema when the Avound is punctured, the air, instead of escaping, accumulating in the areolar tissue. Bleeding is dangerous, by direct loss, and by risk of htemato-thorax; and also by probable accumulation in the bronchial tubes and trachea, during the stage of collapse. Afterwards comes the peril of congestion and inflammatory accession in the lung upon the uninjured side. And, lastly, by profuse and continued discharge from the suppu- rating Avound and pleural cavity, the patient may perish under the symptoms of phthisical hectic. Inflammatory invasion of the wounded lung is one of the serious consequences mentioned by most systematic AATiters, and by some spoken of as an invariable consequence. It is in truth, however, rather a rare occurrence. When it is demonstrated in a post-mortem examination, the conditions observed, even in cases of gunshot Avound, are very different from the red and grey hepatized condition observed in idiopathic pneumonia. The affection is limited to the track of the wound and its immediate neighbourhood ; Avhile slougliing and suppuration, except in the mere track of the wound, are rare ; and when an abscess forms, it may usually be traced to the lodg- ment of some foreign body. When such inflammatory result of a lung Avound does occur, it is unattended by any of the symptoms, physical or rational, which characterize idiopathic pneumonia. The first danger is met by rest, quietude, and rigid antiphlogistic regimen; recourse being had also, if need be, to more dii-ect means of controlling the hemorrhage, by inducing coagulation in the bleeding vessels—such as rapid abstraction of blood from one or both arms, the use of bladders of ice applied to the chest, with the employment inter- nally of nauseants, acetate of lead and opium, etc. Eallying and reaction bavmg occurred, antiphlogistics come into use to relieve the congested condition of the uninjured lung. In employing them, the probability of a prolonged and exliausting illness nmst be borne in mind j and although the written dictum of most surgical writers, at the present day, is in favour of lull and repeated venesections, to diminish so far as is consistent with