TREATMENT OF GONORRIICEA. 1136 table habits it is not likely to succeed; and under even the most favour- able circumstances, there is always a risk of failure, witli consequent aggravation of the original disease. Indeed in some cases where the whole spongy part of the urethra has been injected in this way, exten- tensive peruieal abscess has followed, ending in a fatal issue. Failing the ectrotic attempt—or, no opportunity having occurred for its practice—the acute or inllammatory stage is met by ordinary anti- phlogistic means. And it is well to remember, in reference to this, that a first attack of gonorrhoea is generally most severe. Rest is enjoined; but, for obvious reasons, this all-important indication is but seldom ful- filled—and hence one cause of this affection often proving tedious and troublesome in its cure. Diet is low ; the part is fomented, and by a handkerchief or bandage it is suspended; antimony is given in naus- eating doses, or may be advantageously used at the very outset as an emetic ; the bowels are gently moved; but drastic purging does harm, by irritating the rectum, and involving the urethra in sympathy; leeches may be necessary, and should be applied to the perineum or groins ; and, if uneasy feelings pervade the hips, loins, and thighs, the hip-bath will be found usefuL To mitigate the ardor urinse, bland fluids are drunk abundantly; as linseed tea, a solution of mucilage, etc. To render the urine less acrid, saline draughts are useful; as, a scruple of bicarbonate of soda, with a drachm of Eochelle salt, dissolved in tepid water, and then mixed with soda water; taken three or four times daily. Bland enemata are useful, in regulating the bowels; and, in the case of a sympathizing prostate, they are of service as a fomentation or poultice to that part. The antimony is of use, not only as antiphlogistic, but also as antaphrodisiac; and this latter indication is to be assisted by suitable moral treatment on the part of the patient. Camphor, too, and lupulin, are useful in the same way. Should painful erections occur, opiates are given—especially useful in the form of suppository or enema at bed time ; a pill of morphia, or of hyoscyamus and camphor, is some- times found to be more suitable; repeated frequently as circumstances may demand. In other cases belladonna ointment applied to the part, or atropine administered internally, seems to allay irritation better than any other sedative. The patient should He cool at night, with few bed- clothes, upon a hard mattrass. Sometimes full doses of colchicum are of service, in relieving chordee—especially in those cases Avhich possess the rheumatic complication. Leeching of the affected part itself is not advisable ; the bites are likely to cause swelling, partly by ecchymosis, partly by oedema; and such swelling tends to complication by phymosis or paraphymosis ; besides, the wounds are liable to be inoculated by the virus of chancre if present, and troublesome sores may be the con- sequence. To prevent the patient turning in sleep upon the back, which predisposes to the occurrence of erections, a towel may be tied round the hips, with the knot fastened behind. A bladder or caoutchouc bag filled with morsels of ice, and laid over the pubes, will also prove of great service when other means of checking painful erection fail in their effect. In this acute stage, ectrotic injection is not to bo thought of. »\ c would not seek for sudden suppression of discharge, were this in our