CHAPTER XVIII. AFFECTIONS OF THE NERVES. Neduitis. The eflfects of the inflammatory process on this tissue are, of course, most apparent in the nervous centres ; but there seems no reason to doubt, that similar effects follow similar causes in. the nervous ramifications also. The first change is tumescence, with increase of the supply of blood. On making a section of the affected part, numerous red spots are seen, marking the blood-vessels ; and in some places there may be a red striated appearance, in consequence of extravasation ; sometimes small coagula are found. The increased amount of blood may heighten the general colour of the affected part; the cortical substance assuming a dark red or brownish colour, while the medullary is of a lighter tint. The process continuing, the ordinary inflammatory products result by proliferation of the nuclei of the cell structures, which, in the brain, represent the connective tissue of other parts ; the texture softens, and may become of almost semifluid consistence. According to the nature and extent of the inflammatory products, the colour, density, and general character vary ; if blood be extravasated, the softening is red; yellow, when this is not the case ; sometimes gray, and occasionally whitish, or but little altered from the normal hue. The latter condition, as can readily be understood, is the result of a chronic and minor aflection. These changes will be found on microscopic examination to be due partly to vascular changes, partly to corpuscular multiplication of the connective tissue, and partly to the fatty degeneration of the inflamma- tory product along with the brain substance. The cineritious matter is more prone to undergo such changes than the medullary; probably on account of its containing a larger propor- tion of cell structures capable of engaging in the proliferating process. Softening of the brain substance, found after death, may, however, be unconnected with the inflammatory process. The distinguishing of such post-mortem disorganization from that which is truly inflammatory sometimes requires minute and careful examination. Generally speaking, the former is more diffused, or, if localized, has an obvious cause in the existence of embolism of the afferent vessel of the affected part ; or in the presence of extravasated blood or other agent leading to mechanical disintegration of the tissue. Under the microscope, nothing is found but disorganized and macerated nervous texture ; while in the inflamma- tory softening, changes in the connective tissue corpuscles, and the for- mation of so-called compound granular cells are observed. The nervous tissue is not exempt from suppuration, but, compared