ARTERIAL DEGENERATION. 387 id if a tear do take place, this is not likely to undergo repair. On the >ntrary, the breach is more likely to widen by ulceration ; for proneness that morbid result is another consequence of the structural alteration, ence it Avill at once appear, how an artery so circumstanced is but little lited for deligation. Occlusion will not take place by sound plastic lango; but rather by ulceration the unobstructed canal will be opened to, and dangerous hemorrhage necessarily ensues. It is also equally ain how the occurrence of aneurism is favoured, by the proneness to iceration in the middle and inner coats, and by the impairment of leir elasticity, cohesion, and plastic power. Dilatation, rupture, and )n-repair of the breach, are obviously rendered liable and likely. It must be borne in mind, however, that the advanced atheromatous lange in arteries may be due not to any inflammatory process of cell rohferation, Avhich ends in decay and fatty degeneration of the adven- ^ious corpuscles, but to a simple fitty degeneration of the arterial tunics, jmmencing in the corpuscles of the connective tissue of the internal coat. Ifterwards the intermediate substance also softens ; and the fatty granular lasses breaking up, are carried away in the wash of passing blood, leaving le serous surface irregular and even flocculent. This fatty degeneration By also occur primarily in the sclerous layer of the arterial tunics, or in 18 muscular or elastic tissues of the middle coat. And it is in these pt-mentioned cases, that, forming a pultaceous softened mass, it most f)sely resembles the conditions resulting from inflammatory change. Calcareous change may follow or accompany both conditions just jscribed. In the one instance, the inflarnmatory irritation first occurs, iaracterized by proliferation of the pre-existing connective tissue. |ius, swelHngs of the internal coat are produced; in which, however, (e calcareous deposit does not take place for some time ; and when it ^es, the result is the formation of true osseous tissue in plates in the tner coat of the vessel at the affected part. In the other instance, the (posit is a mere calcareous degeneration of already existing and un- itated connective tissue, which simply undergoes petrifaction. This rm is usually a concomitant and result of old age. As the arcus oilis forms on the cornea, as the body bends, as the prostate enlarges, the teeth drop out, and the cartilages ossify, so the arterial tubes are ible to become hard and non-elastic, by the formation of earthy matter the sclerous and also in the middle coats ; sometimes in granules, more ;quently in scaly patches, sometimes in continuous masses. The inter- 1 coat is dry and wrinkled in appearance; sometimes loose and almost llous in its surface j sometimes torn, shrivelled, and raggedly project- g; not unfrequently the calcareous scales are incorporated with it. -ry often atheromatous may be seen mingled in greater or less propor- 'u with the calcareous matter, in the artery of the old man. And some- nes a few calcareous scales maybe found among atheromatous forma- >n, in the artery of the man of middle age. The calcareous change is 'hnanly termed ossification; but, in most instances, the process and «ult are altogether different from the formation of true bone. Some- i^.es It 18 so extensive as almost to banish all trace of the original struc- Ii-e of the vessel, converting it into a rigid earthy tube. -Lhis degenerated state must obviously interfere with the elasticity and