TREATMENT OF CONCUSSION. G04 the patient; the use of the cold shower-bath; and residence in genial exiDosure and climate. Many patients recover, to all appearance, perfectly from concassion • and yet are subject to frequent and unpleasant rojiembrances of the injury. On attempting any unusual exertion, either of mind or body, or on the occurrence of any otherwise trifling stomachic or intestinal dis- order, intense headach supervenes, with some fever, and perhaps attended with disorder of sight or other special sense. Or, by even slight indul- gence in wine, they are liable to undergo great mental excitement,- little short of temporary delirium or insanity. Such persons, it is obvi-. ous, ought to pay great attention to regimen, to the state of the bowels, and to the avoidance of all circumstances likely to excite, or cause deter-' mination to the cranial contents. Indeed, it may be laid down as a safe- general rule, that all who have once sustained any considerable concus sion of the brain must ever after regard their head as a weak point, whic' requires constant prophylactic care. And, for some time immediatel succeeding the infliction of the injury, this truth should be more esp ciaUy forced upon them. For many most serious cerebral disorders hav been the result of premature return to bodily exercise, mental occupation, or pleasures of the table, after a concussion thought at the time to be bu trivial A very insidious, and consequently dangerous, affection of the bra' or its membranes is apt to ensue as a remote consequence of concussio" more especially in young people. A slight injury of the head has bee- received, by a blow or fall; and its immediate efi'ects seem to be satis factorily recovered from. Weeks—or, it may be, months—afterwards the patient is out of health ; he loses colour, appetite, flesh, and energy both of body and mind ; he is subject to headach, and occasionally com plains of giddiness ; the skin is dry and feverish, the tongue coated wi''- a yellowish Avhite fur; the secretions are altered; the eye has an un wonted expression, rather of languor than of excitement; the stomach i"^ irritable, and occasionally rejects food ; sleep is disturbed and unrefresh ing, the pulse continues small and frequent, or preternaturally slow. Th ordinary remedies, directed to stomach, skin, and bowels, fail to reheve The general ailment continues slowly to advance. By and by, the hea symptoms assume a pre-eminence ; and at no distant period from tha event, symptoms of pressure on the brain become plainly manifest Most probably the issue is fatal. An inflammatory process has bee slowly advancing in the membranes of the brain, or even the cereb substance; suppuration has at length occurred ; and, in consequence, i is not unlikely that an acute accession has supervened on the previo chronic change of structure. It is very obvious how the inobservant practitioner must be apt t mistake the true nature of such cases. The head is not suspected o originating the evil, until towards the close; when treatment, howeve suitable, can prove of but little avail. Diet is attended to, laxativ are 'given, then alteratives; and then, probably, tonics; all without relief; the last class of remedies inevitably inducing marked aggravation' of the disorder. It may be that the treatment is from the first of a tonic nature, and blindly persevered in, notwithstanding its manifest failure y