TUMOUES OF THE OUlilT. 649 iiialiu- margin of tho orbit, and cutting through the conjunctiva and fivsciix, either above or below the globe, and its motor muscles, sufficient space will be obtained to suffice for tho removal of a tumour, without any interference with tho lids; a procedure which is always followed by more or loss cicatricial puckering and deformity. Partial removal even of the simplest tumour, in this situation, is obviously inexpedient. For, reproduction will ahnost certainly occur fi-om the portion which remains; and such second formations are very apt to prove of an unfavourable kind. 2. The Erectile tumour is occasionally found occupying the orbit. It is seldom congenital; but occurs suddenly, in after life; and its origin is usually attended with a considerable amount of pain. At first an obscure deep swelling is found, causing more or less inconvenience ; but as it enlarges, and approaches the surface, the ordinary characteristics of erectile tissue become sufficiently apparent. Often the cheek is covered with large veins—recipients of the blood from the more active vessels within. In some cases apparently of this kind, when the death of the patient has afforded opportunity for post-mortem investigation, no aneurism by anastomosis, or vascular enlargement whatever, could be found; an in- creased secretion of fluid in the areolar tissue, and atheromatous product in the ophthalmic artery, being all that could be pointed to as of patho- logical origin. Tliis tumour cannot be treated directly, either by knife, or by ligature. Yet, if no remedial means be adopted, the probable issue will be unfor- tunate ; by enlargement, ulceration, hemorrhage ; by involvement of the orbital parietes, and subsequent pressure on the brain; or by mere con- stitutional irritation. Experience, in several such cases, has proved that dehgation of the corresponding carotid is capable of effecting a cure; not by obtaining consolidation and obliteration of the dilated vessels ; but, probably, by diminishing their supply of blood, removing the im- pulse of the heart's action, and so favouring resumption of the normal calibre. In some few instances, the supply of blood will be found so mani- festly connected with the arterial branches which, ramify around the orbit, as to admit of deligation of the direct feeding trunks of the erectile growth. This can be effected, with least deformity, by passing a curved needle armed with silver wire beneath the vessel, and twisting or tying the suture—thus compressing the vessel against the skin so as to arrest its vascular current. In other instances, astringent injections have been found to effect a cure; matico, gallic acid, tannin, alum, and perchloride of iron, having, been used for this purpose. But all such procedures, where the circulation between the arteries and veins is so free, must be regarded with some suspicion; as the risk of some portion of the coagula thus formed being carried into the circulation, and giving nse to embolic results, is imminent. 3. Tumours of a malignant kind—medullary—are no unfrequent occupants of the orbital cavity. Generally they originate in the eyeball : but occasionally this is involved oiily secondarily—tho origin being in tne orbital areolar tissue, in tlic periosteum, or in the bone. The sole