TREATMENT OF ACUTE. ABSCESS. 86 It is no doubt true that nature is herself equal to overtake tliis result, unaided; and the mode of her operation we have shewn (p. 83). But the completion of that task, often laborious, sliould seldom be demanded of her in acute abscess; otherwise harm must accrue. 1. Time is unnecessarily wasted. Nature's mode of evacuation is a gradual and tardy process ; the plunge of a knife is the work of an instant; and it may happen, not unfrequently, that time is all-important to the patient. 2. An unnecessary amount of pain is endured. Though after suppui-a- tion of lax textures the painful feehngs usually subside, yet they do not disappear; not unfrequently pain conljinues even severe, and is not really assuaged until (by evacuation of the matter) jDressure and tension have been effectually removed. The pain of opening may not be slight, but it soon passes away; it is but as a moderate cost of a most valuable purchase. And if chloroform be employed, no pain need be felt at all. If the suppurated texture include what is fibrous, osseous, or otherwise unyielding, pain is invariably aggravated instead of being abated by the formation of pus; and therefore the expediency of early evacuation is still more obvious under such circumstances. 3. Texture may be greatly endangered. In the ordinary progress of an acute abscess, favourably situated, the majority of the surrounding parts are pushed aside, con- densed, and infiltrated by fibrin and serum; while at one point actual destruction of texture takes place, by the disintegration of the connective tissue which occasions the process of advance. But if the natural effort outwards be baulked by resisting texture, as it is almost certain to be in deeply seated abscess, then pressure is increased to a dangerous degree, at other and various points; and those parts which otherwise might have been merely displaced, and temporarily altered in structure, now become the prey of a morbid process which is destructive. Areolar tissue is broken up, muscles are separated, periosteum is detached, bone stripped bare may ulcerate or die, cavities and canals are opened into, blood-vessels may be perforated, joints may be stifi'ened or destroyed. Such evils may occur, even when the process is gradual and of a nor- mal kind, preceded by its fibrinous barrier; but it may happen that dis- integration becomes xmusually rapid, and the boundary of fibrinous pro- duct is broken down ; purulent for- mation then takes place difiusely through the tissues, and both the extent and rapidity of disaster are fearfully increased, 4. The danger is not only local but general Such destructive results, as have just been alluded to, cannot occur without involving the system in serious disorder. This would be the case, even supposing the parts F'g- if. so injuriously dealt with to be of themselves unimportant. But they Fig. 18. Danger of delaying incision, exemplified. Thumb lost in consequence. Fig. 19. The illustration carried further ; after maceration. Fig. 18.