LITIIOTKIPSY. 1090 place within the cavity, at a safe distance from the coats. And if there be any doubt as to the quantity of urine retained for tliis purpose, let a pint of tepid water be slowly injected by means of a syringe and catheter. Then the fenestrated lithontriptor, to prevent inconvenient impaction of fragments, having been introduced, is used first as a sound; and the stone is usually struck where it is to be expected, at the then most dependent part of the viscus; the convexity of the instrumejit is made to press on the mucous coat of the bladder at this point, while at the same time the thumb of the right hand moves the sliding blade back- wards ; then a slight wriggling movement is made with the wrist; and the stone, tumbling into the depression made by the downward pressure of the instrument, is felt between its jaws and secured. Others prefer laying the curved point of the instrument alongside the calculus ; they then carefully open the blades, and turning the handle a quarter of a circle, move the blades together to feel if the calculus is within their grasp. Where, again, the operation is performed in a case where the stone lies behind the prostate, the beak of the instrument may require to be revolved half a circle to secure the stone between the blades. Having got hold of it by any of these modes, the direction of the lithontriptor is then changed, so as to bring the stone into the supposed centre of the viscus; away from the mucous coats, and with urine all around. Then the screw is applied, and the work of crushing proceeded with. But if there be any doubt as to the instrument being free of the lining membrane, it must, in the first instance, be moved from side to side, or turned round, so as to make sure of this essential point. A small friable stone may be pulverized at one sitting. Usually, frag- ments are made ; which in their turn require separate seizure and crush- ing. And for this latter work, a solid lithontriptor is preferable, as there is now less chance of clogging such an instrument; and, being im- perforate, it is more efficient in dealing with small fragments, which might in a great measure elude the force of the instrument first used. Enough having been done—and to estimate this, we must consider not only the amount of crushing, but also the patient's tolerance of the pro- ceedings—a full-sized catheter is introduced, shaped like the hthontrip- tor ; on opening its jaws, urine, with the finer of the detritus, freely escapes ; and this extrusion—harmless and painless, because passing through the metallic instrument—may be favoured by once and again injecting the bladder with tepid water, by means of a syi'inge fitted to the catheter ; but only provided the feelings of the patient admit of this. He is then put to bed ; absolute rest is enjoined ; opiates are freely administered, by both mouth and rectum, if need be; diluents are given; and antiphlogistic regimen is enjoined. Should excitement tlireaten, opiates, local loss of blood, and hip-baths may be required. During some days, fragments and sand continue to pass, with more or less suffer- ing; and, by and by, again the urine becomes clear and free. Tlie bladder and system recover from their disorder ; a tolerance of the operation is again established; and repetition may consequently be resorted to, with all due caution. When, after one or more sittings, we have reason to suppose that the stone has been completely crushed and passed, careful perquisition is to be made with the ordinary sound, used