FOREIGN BODIES IN THE WINDPIPE. t Lancet, 1069, p. 729. 8G0 sufTocation may occur, at a very early period, by impaction of the mh- stanco in the upper part of tlie larynx—as already sliewn. 2. Imperfect respiration may more gradually induce a fatal issue ; in consequence of partitd obstruction caused by the foreign body, and accumulation of mucus at the incommoded part, 3. Laryngitis or tracheitis may be excited, of formidable character. 4. Congestion may take ijlace in the lungs ; followed perhaps by apoplectic disruptions of the pulmonary tissue, or by pneumonia, or by bronchitis; and it is well to rememljer that a foreign body lodged in and irritating the bronchus, may cause fatal disease of the lung—the site of the lodgment itself remaining intact.* 5. A foreign body of small si^e may perforate a bronchus or bronchial tube, and lodge in the pulmonary tissue ; and acting untowardly there, as all foreign substances must, may cause abscess, or lay the foundation for tubercular formation and fatal phtbisis. 6. Or the passage outwards may be more advanced. The lungs may be passed througli, and the cavity of the pleura reached ; and empyema may be the result. No doubt, it has happened that yet another step has been taken ; the foreign suljstance has perforated the walls of .the chest, by tedious ulceration, and been discharged externally. And it has also happened that a foreign body has been expectorated by the mouth, along with purulent matter, at a long date from its introduction. But such occurrences are much too rare to warrant their use as precedents in determining the ajDpropriate treat- ment. If the violent efforts of the patient fad to dislodge and extrude the foreign body—as is not unlikely—recoui-se must be had to bronchotomy; and tbrough- the artificial opening in the windpipe the foreign body is sought to be extracted. Before proceeding to this operation, however, it is well in cases of comparative obscurity to explore the pharynx and gul- let, in the first instance. Urgent symptoms of dyspncea, we have already seen, may be caused by foreign substances lodged in either of these pas- sages ; thence compressing, irritating, and obstructing the air passage. And experience has shewn that a foreign body, not bulky enough to cause dangerous compression, may lodge near the rima, and exterior to it; may cause many of the ordinary symptoms of a foreign body within the windpipe; and that in such a case, while bronchotomy must necessarily fail, expulsive efforts, duly aided by the surgeon, are most Hkely to succeed, f Also—in children especially—when the lodgment of a small round substance, such as a pea, is suspected, and when much bronchitic secre- tion is oppressing the cbest, it is well to premise full vomiting, by means of ipecacuan. Along with the vitiated mucus, the offending body has sometimes been expelled. When the foreign body is of small size, and plainly indicated by the symptoms to be either loose in the air passage, or fixed in the upper part of the larynx, laryngotomy may be had recourse to. It is of easy performance ; and, though an aperture through the crico-thyroid space be necessarily of limited dimensions, it is jDrobable that through that space such a foreign body may be readily enough removed. In all other cases, * Monthly Journal, November 1852, p. 449.