BRUISE OF THE ABDOMEN. 987 toms of peritonitis may have manifestly set in, or at least its morbid appearances are discovered after death. It is not easy to account for the i-apidly fatal issue from shock, except by supposing it due to poisoning of the system by the rapid absorption of the extravasated fluids. (2.) The hemorrhage rarely produces a fatal result until the shock of injury begins to pass away. Its source may either be from the vessels of the parietes, or, more usually, from the vessels of a ruptured Hver or spleen. On dissec- tion, the blood is found both as a thin layer of coagulum forming a mould of the neighbouring viscera over which it is spread, and also in the form of a dense firm cake in immediate contact with, and occupying, the lacera- tion of the injured organ. The signs of hemorrhage are those charac- teristic of excessive loss of blood, with a sense of abdominal oppression, and even in some cases of fluctuation perceptible on external examination. The only chance for the patient suffering from such contusion of the abdominal organs, must obviously consist in permitting the state of shock, or depression of the system, to continue for a time. And this must be well borne in mind ; as a very common and not unnatural error in practice is, at once to attempt removal of it. The same evil consequences follow, as in the analogous case of injury done to the cranial contents. Let the patient alone ; and ere reaction occurs, with its quickened and full cir- culation, a torn liver or spleen may have had its vessels closed by Nature's hemostatics; and a ruptured portion of intestine may be so circumstanced by position and circumscription of the injury, should it not have been distended at the time of the accident, as to render fatal escape of its con- tents into the peritoneal cavity at least less probable. But, stimulate unwisely ; and then premature reaction is established ; the returning blood finds the mouths of vessels still open, and intestinal extravasation is quite unopposed. In one case, only, are we to interfere; and that is, when the shock is extreme in both intensity and duration, and threatens to prove directly fatal. Then we stimulate, to save life from immediate loss ; and yet we stimulate very cautiously, lest saving from one hazard we engender another at least as great. In treatment, all these contin- gencies must be regarded. In all cases, absolute rest and quietude are enjoined ; and the simplest ingesta, such as ice, milk, and the essence of beef, are given most sparingly. (3.) Symptoms of peritonitis usually manifest themselves, if they are to occur, within the first twenty-four hours, and are indicated at their commencement by frequency and hard- ness of pulse, by anxiety of the expression, by arrest of all diaphragmatic breathing, by the position of the patient, lying upon his back with his limbs drawn up, and by tenderness upon pressure of the abdomen. On the first rising of the pulse beyond the limits of moderate reaction, leech- ing should be freely employed, followed by hot fomentation, and calomel and opium internally. And here the opiates may be administered in a larger proportion than usual; it being the only available opponent of the intense and exhausting pain which attends on such disease—as well as being besides of great service, in injuries of the intestines more especi- ally, by exerting a sedative effect on the muscular coat of the bowels. Very obviously, purging is not to be dreamt of, in the early treatment. Subsequently, when it is necessary to move the bowels, the gentlest remedies are to bo selected ; and even they are used with caution.