TREATMENT OF MORTIFICATION. i4G the "bandaged limb ; and such precautions are especially desirable in the case of tlie aged and weak. AV^lien bed sores are threatened, the points naturally most compressed—over the sacrum, trochanters, heels, scapulaj, elbows—must be relieved, as much as possible ; by frequent variation of posture ; by the adjustment of pads, or pillows, on tlie adjacent parts ; and, if need be, by the use of these admirable contri- vances for such purposes, the water-bed or pillow by which the labour of support is equally distributed on every part of the surface. The reddened and painful parts are to bo pencilled over with nitrate of silver, either in substance or in solution, so as merely to blacken the skin. Or a solution of corrosive sublimate may be used; which has the effect of hardening the part, and rendering it less susceptible of the influence of pressure. Covering the parts, from time to time, with a mixture of white of egg and alum, sometimes makes a very use- ful protective crust. At the same time, of course, our utmost efforts will be directed towards the general recovery of the patient; in order that recumbency may become unnecessary. When breach of surface has ensued, it early assumes the weak character ; requiring stimulating appli- cations, accordingly. When mechanical or chemical injury is the cause, we have seldom the power of altogether preventing mortification; limitation is our object. So soon as the first shock has passed over, our treatment is so far anti- phlogistic ; in order that death may be confined to the parts which sutfer directly from the injury. We seek to save those which, with their vital power diminished, might still contrive to live, if let alone ; but which would be unable to contend successfully with a brisk inflammatory acces- sion. A certain amount of this must ensue, no doubt; but we are anxious to limit it to what is really necessary to effect detachment of the original slough. During the progress of detachment, the antiphlogistic regimen will probably be expedient. Thereafter, by improved diet, and other tonic means if necessary, the general power is to be maintained; sufiicient to ward off hectic, and duly carry forward the operation of repair. In regard to mortification from Gold, it is our duty to prevent the occurrence if possible. And, as in this climate it is seldom that the destructive result is by the direct effect, but by the secondary or reactive, such prevention is not unfrequently within our power. Plainly, it is to be accomplished by moderating reaction ; abstracting cold, and yet not applying sudden heat or other stimuli. The common practice is very successful; and, though perhaps not actually based on scientific principles, can be most satisfactorily explained by them. A part undergoing the freezing process—threatening to die by the direct effect of intense cold— becoming pale, shrunk, and but little sensible, is rubbed with snow; while the patient and part are yet in the open air, or at least not exposed to sudden elevation of temperature. Eubbing arrests the sedative efl'ect, and induces reaction ; and rubbing with cold ensures the reaction being gradual, slow, and safe. Circulation and nervous influence are restored ; and returning vital power finds no undue excitement to oppose or control. When gangrene has set in, by reaction proving excessive, our object