1007 HERNIA. usual integument, and then one or more layers of foscifc. These will be t'uumerated, in the separate consideration of the varieties of hernia. Tlie Sac is the portion of parietal peritoneum which is pushed before the protruding viscus, and whicli forms its immediate envelope. Some- times it is wanting ; as in hernia following directly upon wound, and in protrusions which consist of the caput ca?cum coli, or bladder. In the yi'cat majority of cases, we are to count upon its presence—adherent or not to the extra-abdominal parts with which it is in abnormal contact, according to the duration of its presence there, and the occurrence or not of adhesion between the surrounding parts and its exterior. "We ordinarily speak of the neck and body of the sac, as we do of the neck and body of the general tumour ; the neck being that portion, of smaller calibre, which is at and near the aperture of protrusion, and the body being understood to be the more globular swelling beyond. If the tumour have been long protruded, without reduction, and otherwise but little altered in its circumstances, the neck of the sac is apt to become dense and unyielding in structure, and the calibre in consequence is at that part of a fixed nature. When, under the application of a fresh exciting cause, a new protrusion takes place, there is an extension in the sac, cor- responding to the increased bulk of its contents ; but, not improbably, the propelled original neck of the sac does not change, except in its position only ; and, remaining of its contracted dimensions, it may become the seat of stricture in the case of strangulation—the new neck proving comparatively free and accommodating. This circumstance has obviously an important bearing on the operation for relief of strangulation. The Hernial Contents are various, inasmiTch as everjr abdominal viscus is liable to protrusion ; but the most frequently affected, by far, are the intestines and omentum ; one or other, or both. If intestine alone is protruded, the tumour is said to be an Enterocele; Epiplocele implying descent of omentum ; and Entero-epiplocele, descent of both. Sometimes only a redundant portion of bowel escapes, in the form of a diverticulum; and this is termed a Hernia Litrica. The Diagnosis of hernia is a practical subject obviously of the high- est importance. A hernia in its ordinary or reducible condition, is a colourless, elastic, compressible swelling, at the site of an abdominal aper- ture ; protruding when the patient assumes the erect position, and re- ceding when he lies down; receiving an impulse on coughing, and tend- ing to enlargement under any exertion of the abdominal muscles ; gurg- ling under pressure if containing bowel; capable of being replaced, by very moderate pressure, within the abdominal cavity ; and easily retained by very gentle support, if accurately made upon the aperture by wliich it escapes. In the early stage of its development, when as yet there is only a tendency to its formation, a hernial protrusion is indicated to be in progress by the uneasy sensations complained of at a site where such pro- trusions are common, and by the existence of a sense of distensile bulg- ing communicated to the finger, or even apparent to the eye, when the patient coughs, sneezes, or otherwise exerts his respiratory muscles to sudden consentaneous contraction. The tumour, as it progresses, comes from within outwards, causing more and more protrusion, and assuining more of an oval, rounded, or pyriform shape. There are certain affec-