OVAlilOTOMY. 999 cavity for a long time collapsed and causing no inconvenience. The use of pressui-e, if it can be borne, and be regulai'Iy conducted, is decidedly of service in impeding growth of the tumour, and refilling of the sac. And some very interesting cases are recorded, where inflammatory disease, attacking the cyst and its serous investment, has induced such, induration, and caused the formation of adhesions so strong, as to resist further progress of the tumour; ciuing the disease by mechanically arresting its progress. But the cysto-sarcomatous tumours, the fibrous, and the malignant masses, which are not unfrequently found in this situation, either alone or along with the multilocular cyst, are, of course, not amenable to any method of discussion. As auxiliaries to tapping and pressure, the only remedies to be recommended are iodine and diuretics. The former may be used both, externally and internally. That the latter may be of some service, we have evidence in the fact occasionally observed, that the rapidity of the growth or refilling of an ovarian tumour keeps pace with the diminution of the urinary secretion ; and that the remarkable increase of this secre- tion, often observed for some days after tapping, is sometimes accom- panied by progressive diminution of the tumour, which recommences to fill only when the urine again diminishes.* In general, after tapping, the cyst speedily re-enlarges, and the operation has to be repeated as before ; the cyst usually filling more rapidly after every such repetition, Tlie second tapping may not be required till after several months ; but subsequently the interval may diminish to a few weeks. This process generally exhausts the patient after some years; or an intercurrent in- flammatory attack in the cyst, or in the peritoneum, may prove speedily fatal Sometimes, however, patients survive to have the tapping very often repeated; and almost incredible quantities of fluid have thus been drawn ofl" from the same woman.j" In cases where the cyst refills rapidly after tapping, and where it is apparently monolocular, and has no solid mass in connection with it, injection ot a strong solution of iodine, as in hycbocele, has been successfully practised. In employing this plan of treatment, the sac should be emptied as completely as possible ; and for this piirpose the flexible canula, or a gum-elastic catheter passed through and accurately fitting the canula of the ordinary * Many authors of note entirely discredit tlie efficacy of all internal remedies. Burns says they have an equal effect " over the configuration of the patient's nose." Hamilton, on the contrary, as is well known, used the solution of muriate of lime internally as a discutient, and placed great confidence in it. t Dr. Mead's patient, whose endurance is celebrated in the following epitaph, has now unfortunately been frequently surpassed. " Here lies Dame Mary Page, Eelict of Sir Gregory Page, Bart., "Who departed this life March 21st, 1728, In the 56th year of her age. In 67 months she was tapped 66 times, Had taken away 240 gallons of water, Without ever repining at her case, Or even fearing the operation. Dr.- Martin of Norwich tapped a patient 80 different times, and drew ofl" 6832 pints of fluid.