PUNCTUBE OF THE BLADDETl. 1122 tion, will frequently assist the surgeon materially hy enabling him to introduce his linger as a guide in directing the staff' tlu'ough tlie obstructed part. It is rarely, however, that any such procedure is demanded of the experienced surgeon; generally ho succeeds by the catheter and its auxiliaries—chloroform seldom omitted. But this may be said to be puncture of the urethra, rather than puncture of the bladder ; and so it is. In strict accuracy, perineal puncture of the bladder may be held to denote the reaching of the neck of that viscus, by the thrust of a trocar and canula, or by means of a small lithotomy wound—an operation which is very seldom performed for mere retention. 2. JBy the Rectum.—Tliis is a simple and safe operation; but is apt to leave a troublesome fistulous communication between the bladder and bowel. "We have recourse to it when foiled in the use of the catheter, and when the method by perineal incision is not considered advisable— or when that has failed; and, indeed, it may be performed in any case, by a surgeon who prefers it, except when the prostate is much enlarged. The patient is placed recumbent, with the limbs raised. The fore and middle fingers of the surgeon's left hand are introduced, well oiled, into the rectum ; and their points are rested on the central space imme- diately behind the prostate. A long curved trocar is introduced by the right hand, with its stilet withdrawn within the canula; the extremity of the latter is fixed on the trigone, between the points of the fingers resting there ; and, the stilet being then pushed forward, both the trocar and its canula are lodged in the bladder. The trocar is withdra^vn, and the canula is retained. If there be good prospect of speedily removing the cause of retention, the canula may be very soon taken out. Other- wise, it should be retained for some days, so as to prevent premature closure of the wound. 3. Above tlie Puhes.—This is our last resource; when both the other methods are deemed impracticable. The operation is similar to supra- pubal lithotomy. A small incision is made through the parietes, imme- diately above the symphysis ; and through this the bladder is punctured at its lowest part, by means of a short trocar and canula—similar to what is \Tsed in ascites—directing the point of the instrument obKquely backwards, towards the promontory of the sacrum. The canula is left; or a portion of elastic catheter ; or a short lithotomy tube. And the patient is laid on his side, so as to favour outward escape of the urine. These methods of operation have been enumerated, according to what is conceived to be their merit. All are rare, in actual practice ; and deservedly so ; for none are of a favourable character. But any one of them is much preferable, at any time, to postponement of relief, and consequent disaster by extravasation ; and all, too, are preferable to push- ing a metallic catheter by sheer force through an impassably strictured urethra. Extravasation of Urine. This may be either vesical or urethral. The vesical, as we have already seen, may follow wound, ulceration, or tearing of the viscus. 1. After the wound of lithotomy, it is too common ; 2. Cystitis may lead