ECTROPION. GG2 wound, slougliing abscess, or exfoliation ; the first and last are the moBt unfavouraLlo. Ectropion, however, arises from other causes than tlie conti-action of sores. Simple relaxation of the lower lid will produce it; and this may depend on llahhiness and redundancy of all the component textures or on atony only of tlie fibres of the orbicularis. The last circumstance igi no uncommon occurrence in ohl people. Frequently, also, ectropion igi caused by a faulty condition of the conjunctival lining of tlie lid ; whichi is the seat of swelling either of an acute or of a chronic kind. Andi 'I Fig. 240. Fig. 241. it is well to remember how general inflammatory swelling of the lid, with contraction of the orbicularis, is able to cause either inversion o: eversion, according to the accident of displacement; just as a si condition of the prepuce may be the cause either of phjonosis or of p phymosis. Eversion is no uncommon attendant on purulent ophtha from the acute and great swelling of the lid, more especially of its junctival lining. It also results from an indolent enlargement thickening of that membrane, as in extreme cases of granidar Hds. Ihl accidental division of either canthus, too, may cause it; the lid becomini loose and pendulous. Or it may arise from an elongated and in-ej state of the tarsal cartilage. Treatment necessarily varies according to the nature of the caui Acute swelling of the eyehd and its lining is subdued by the usual nieaiuj Chronic enlargement of the membrane is first treated by scarification, amj astringents. If the punctum is displaced, and epiphora present, slitti: up the canaliculus will often relieve the watering of the eye, and mitigalr: the inflammatory condition of the conjunctiva which produces the evei sion. If these means be resisted, the redundancy may be removed b curved scissors ; great care being taken lest, by the removal of too mucl entropion be produced. Atony or paralysis of the fibres of the orbici laris may be combated by the usual means ; but, generally, this form • the affection, occurring in those of advanced years, may be regardc simply as one of the many signs of decay—ii-remediable. AVIien there elongation of the tarsal cartilage, or redundancy of the whole lid, al1l1rc^^ tion, sufficient to restore normal position, is effected by a simple oporatifi Towards the centre of the lid, a triangular portion of its whole tliickuo is to be removed in the form of the letter V; the margins of the woui Fig. 240. Ectropion, aflfccting tlie upper eyelid ; the result of exfoliation. Fig. 241. Ectropion, nffecting the lower eyeli<l.