1023 INGUINAL HERNIA. vanced stage of the inflammatory process, ulceration or other dangerous structural change is liable to ensue. In such cases, the inflammatory symptoms are very generally of an asthenic or typhoid type, and accom- panied by diarrhoea. Blistering, or turpentine stupes, and hot poultices, with opiates and stimulants, and easily digested but simple nourishment— such as milk and beef juice aff'ord—are more likely to be beneficial than more heroic procedure. Oblique Inguinal Hernia. This is by much the most common form of hernia, in the male. Descent takes place along the outer side of the spermatic cord, through the inguinal canal; the tumour shows itself external to the parietes, at the outer abdominal ring; and thence descends into the scrotum in the male—constituting an oscheocele, or scrotal hernia ; into the labium of the female, constituting labial hernia; or still contained within the inguinal canal, and then called a Bubonocele. The investments of the tumour are as follows : externally, the integument; then the super- ficial fascia of the abdomen ; then the proper fascia, or fascia propria of Camper, consisting of the prolongation of the intercolumnar fibres upon the cord; then the fascia cremasterica, formed by fibres from the cremaster muscle; then the infundibuliform, or transversalis fascia, consisting of a prolongation of the fascia transversalis abdominis ; lastly, the sac. There are sub-varieties of inguinal hernia:—1. The Jntermuscidar Hernia.—This is more liable to occur in females than in males; the bowel meeting with obstruction in its ordinary descent. Having passed the internal aperture, it turns towards the ilium, and lodges between the abdominal muscular layers, above and exteriorly to its point of exit. On account of this unusual site, diagnosis may be somewhat obsciire.* 2. The Congenital Hernia.—This is a very simple deviation from the normal state of parts ; dependent on imperfect development. It is not likely to take place till after birth; for not until after inflation of the lungs are the exciting causes applied. But so soon as the child is born, the exertion of crying brings down a portion of bowel or omentum along the open process of peritoneum, which exists in consequence of that which constitutes the tunica vaginalis testis having not been oc- cluded. There is no sac, except the tunica vaginalis; the bowel or omentum lying -within the cavity of that tunic, in contact with the tes- ticle—sometimes adherent to it, in which case the tumour is irreducible. Occasionally a portion of bowel contracts adhesions to the testicle while within the abdomen, and, descending with it at the usual time, consti- tutes this form of hernia before birth. Protrusion may, however, occur at any period of after-life; we meet with it certainly most commonly in the infant, occupying both sides ; but it may appear for the first time in the adolescent, or even in the adult; the communication usually having remained patent in these cases only upon one side. 3. Hernia Infantilis. —This term is applied to a more complicated state of parts. The communication between the tunica vaginalis and ab- * Luke, Medical Gazette, March 15, 1850.