850 BRONCHOCELE. that tlio inflammatory result will lead to obliteration of the cystic formation; but much care is necessary in watcliing the process, lest it prove excessive, and threaten asphyxia tlirough sudden and great enlarge- ment of the swelling. For the sohd tumours, the seton is not mill adapted ; it not only fails to discuss, but is also exceedingly prone to accelerate growth. After tapping and injecting cystic bronchoceles which contain a thick, grumous, bloody fluid, arterial hemorrhage may occur into the sac. In such circumstances the swelling rapidly enlarges, pulsates, and may threaten asphyxia by pressure on the trachea. Should this unfor- tunately occur, a free incision should be made into the sac, and the hemorrhage, which is certain to be very copious, may be arrested Math compresses of lint soaked in the perchloride of iron, and temporarily re- tained, either by strips of adhesive plaster, or (better) by two or three stitches introduced between the edges of the wound, so as to keep them firmly in their place. Tumours over the Thyroid Gland. Not unfrequently cystic formations are found, not in the substance of the thyroid gland, but between this and the integument. If of small size and circumscribed, they may be dissected out. Those which are large may be treated by injection. Enlargement of the Thyro-hyoid Bursa. Like other bursse, that which is situated between the hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage is liable to enlargement, chronic or acute; causing more or less swelling, with pain, and obstruction to the movements of the neck. The acute form is met by repeated leeching and fomentation; the chronic is appropriately treated by the local application of iodine in solu- tion, or by puncture and the use of blisters. Hydrocele and Hematocele of the Neck. Hydrocele and Hematocele of the neck are not uncommon ; occupying the front and back aspects and subclavian space, originating from H' very obvious structure or lesion, and the contents of the cyst being nici^ or less clear, straw-coloured, or sanguinolent. The cyst is thin, supeiii- cial, and seldom of very large size. Sometimes the production of tin swelling is sudden; and its progress in growth may be rapid; after ;i time, however, becoming stationary, and proving inconvenient mainly l'\ its bulk. Tapping, with subsequent injection of iodine, as in otlici serous accumulations, will usually prove successful. Should this fail, - small seton may be inserted; or free incision may be practised, tilling the cavity with lint so as to induce suppuration of the sac, with subsc quent granulation from the bottom of the wound. Ojpening of the External Jugular Vein. Occasionally it is deemed oxi)edient to extract blood by opennig