84 ACUTE AB!3CESS. and by what looks like alternate pressure, but is really produced by keeping one finger still while another is made to press lightly but steadily on an opposite point, the impulse communicated through the fluid is more or less distinctly perceived; the more superficial, thin, and copious the matter, the more marked its impulse. When, on the contrary, the pus, yet recent, is but scanty, and the superimposed texture both thick and dense, the sensation imparted is obscure. Experience and acuteness of touch are both required, under such circumstances, to prevent mistake in diagnosis. The surgeon possessed of both, with the additional faculty of using them aright, is said to be endowed with the tactus eruditm—a gift of rare value. The adipose tissue, when abundant and somewhat tense, has an elasticity which simulates rather closely the fluctuation of abscess. The junior practitioner should, by frequent practice, early learn to discriminate between the two sensations. And as opportunity offers, let him not neglect to contrast also the elasticity of the medullary tumour; many examples of which imitate accumulation of fluid still more closely. But the progress of matter is not always to the external or integu- mental surface ; it may be to the mucous. When the integument is either distant, or separated from the pus by dense fibrous texture, the pointing of the abscess takes place not only in that direction, but also towards a mucous outlet should this be in the vicinity. Sometimes, even, the matter opens upon a serous surface ; but this is fortunately a rare result. Thus, when matter has formed immediately exterior to the peritoneum, in the abdominal parietes, although the dense unyielding fibrous texture on the external aspect interferes with its progress to the surface, yet the support afibrded to the peritoneum from within is so equable, that in almost all such cases the outward progress is steadily maintained through the more dense, thick, and unyielding investment; the peritoneum for at least some considerable time remaining entire, and saving the abdo- minal cavity from dangerous purulent irruption. Whereas, when abscess has formed deeply in the areolar tissue by the side of the rectum, very often before it has pointed externally on the hip it has made its way by an ulcerated aperture into the cavity of the bowel. And, in the same way, abscess of the lung, or even of the pleura, is more likely to be dis- charged through the bronchial tubes, than to make its way through the thoracic parietes. Especially important tissues—^the arterial, venous, and nervous— may traverse the cavity of the abscess j or, though at first not implicated, may be eventually exposed to the matter's contact by enlargement of the suppurated space. Such parts are protected j at least for a time. They are incrusted by a fibrinous layer, dense and compact; which maintains the nutrition of the texture, and thus saves the important part which it invests from ulcerative destruction. Only for a time, however, be it well remembered. For should the relieving incision be unwisely withheld, the extensive denudation of important parts will almost cer- tainly be followed by destructive ulceration, with the complication of hemorrhage when the abscess has opened. The Symptoms which accompany and denote the formation of abscess are sufliciently plain. These are the ordiaary signs of the iuflamniatory process—pain, heat, redness, and swelling. Centrally, the swelling is