1181 TERTIARY SYPHILIS. symptoms consist of affections of the subcntanoous and submucous areo- lar tissue (gummata)—of the testicles (syphilitic sarcocele)—of the fibrous and osseous tissues (periostitis, ostitis, syphilitic necrosis)—of muscles and tendons—and, generally, of internal organs. Along with these affections of deep-seated texture, we frequently find combined some of the transitional symptoms—such as the later pustulo- crustaceous eruptions, and ulcerating tubercles. The period of development of the tertiary symptoms rarely com- mences before the sixth month after infection. It is capable, however, of indefinite prolongation; and symptoms pertaining to this stage of the syphilitic infection may appear after the lapse of many years ; more especially when any cause of general debility has come into action to determine their evolution. Eicord states, as a farther characteristic of all tertiary affections, that they are incapable of hereditary transmission as such, and that they cannot be communicated by inoculation from one individual to another. By some, however, hereditary transmission, in the form of scrofuloid affections, is maintained; while, at the present day, as the whole subject of the communication of syphilitic infection by the inoculation of secretions rendered by the constitutional products of the disease is matter of debate, it seems better not to claim such negative properties as distinctive of tertiary affections. Yirchow and Von Baerensprung would exclude from their classifica- tion of constitutional symptoms all consideration of mere situation, and base their distinction between secondary and tertiary syphilis upon the nature of the product resulting from the pathological changes in the dif- ferent lesions—the tertiary being characterized by the formation of a tubercular product in the texture or organ affected. Whatever difficulty may be felt in reducing all the facts connected with the evolution of constitutional syphilis to the outUnes of a rigid classification, the tertiary symptoms may assuredly, in the words of Mr. Hunter, be said to consist of affections so dissimilar from the secondary, as almost to constitute another disease. Affections of the Subcutaneous or Submucous Areolar Tissue—Ghinir mata.—These have three periods of progress, which require to be dis- tinguished :—rt 1. They exist as dense ovoid or nut-like nodules, varying in size from a pea to an almond—hard as cartilage, movable below the skin, gliding like a fibrous tumour beneath the fingers, and usually unattended with pain. 2. They become softened, larger, and adherent to the integument or mucous membrane, which assumes a dull red or dusky violaceous tint, and is elevated. 3. The centre of the swelling fluctuates, thinning and pointing of the skin ensues, and a central aperture forms by ulceration, from which a gummy tenacious matter escapes. Gradually a yellow deep sloughy- looking ulcer is disclosed, with undermined overhanging margins. The textures around usually become thickened and brawny, and when several such "areolar tissue ulcers" exist grouped together (as is usually the case), a probe introduced at one opening may pass towards the others ; but not so readily as in the common scrofulous ulcer. When cicatrization takes place, the thickening is removed, while the skin around assumes a