2 Tllli INFLAMMATORY PROCESS. sensitive parts, one tissue is involved more obviously than the rest. This is the nervous; and hence immediate pain, by the effect on its sensory portion. An imjDression is thus conveyed from the part to the nervous centre ; thence follows a reflex stimulus to the part, already roused by the direct influence of the irritant, and that stimulus is in due time obeyed. The time which elapses between the application of the exciting cause and the establishment of the morbid process thereby induced, is termed the period of Incubation; varying as to dui-ation; in some cases very brief, in others protracted; always valuable "svith regard to treatment. I. There is a determination of blood* to the part; according to some, the immediate result of the impression on the nerves, in those cases where a wound or other mechanical irritation has occurred; according to others, the consequence of a change having already taken place in the nutrient condition of the texture—a change at once antecedent and attractive. At first the small arteries, probably, contract in their calibre, so retarding the flow of their contents ; but such spasm is usually very brief and transitory—often not observed at all; and is followed by advancing dilatation of the canals, affording both greater volume and greater rapidity to the circulation. Soon enlargement beyond the normal standard is reached by the capillaries as well as the corresponding arteries and veins. Capillaries which previously contained but single files of the red corpuscles, now admit of them roUing through ia masses; and these come crowding in. In consequence, vessels formerly invisible are now seen plaiuly; and the accelerated motion of the general current is as yet but httle abated. As dilatation increases, however, the flow tends to become more and more retarded; and the blood parts with a portion of its contents more hberaUy than in quiet health. What is parted with may be chiefly serum, accumulating on open surfaces and ia interstitial spaces, and there shewing more or less of the character of the liquor sanguinis. The natural function of the part is disordered. If this be secretion, the secreted fluid is increased in quantity. Thus is constituted the first stage, sometimes termed Simple Vascular Excitement; not necessarily inconsistent with health; synonymous with p o o m "A l> Liquor Sanguinis * DIAGEAM OF BLOOD. Chemical Components. r "Water. Various salts. Fatty matters. Extractive do. Albumen. Fibrin. Bed Corpuscles. Colourless Corpuscles. ^ Oramdes. Crassa- mentum. a o § M O o o o The solid portion of living blood, containing iron, and carrying oxj'gen, may be said to minister specially to respiration ; while the iluid part is peculiarly concerned in the function of nutrition.