1316 ' FRACTURES OF THE TIBIA. ment is conducted on the same principles as in the case of transverse fracture of the pateUa. Fractures of the Leg. Fracture of both Bones of the Leg may be the result either of direct or of indirect violence ; a heavy weight falling on or passing over the part; or the patient falling, and alighting on his foot. In the former case, the fracture is usually transverse, and the bones give way at corresponding points. In the latter case, the fracture is usually oblique, and the bones give way, each at its weakest point; the tibia a little above the ankle, the fibula about two or three inches below its head. This latter form of injury is especially apt to occur, in falls or leaps from a vehicle in motion; and one or other of the sharp fragments may protrude through the integument, rendering the case compound. Treatment is well conducted by adjusting the fractured limb when laid upon its outer side, so as to relax the gastrocnemius and soleus mass. Side splints, extending from above the knee to beyond the foot, and made of pasteboard, having been thoroughly softened in hot water, are applied without any padding to the bare limb, by means of a roller bandage. Over tliis, two wooden splints are temporarily fixed to prevent movement and maladjustment during consolidation of the pasteboard. When thoroughly dry, the pasteboard mould of the limb is removed, and having been padded with lint, cotton wool, or chamois leather, is re- applied, and kept in position by means of a loop bandage, or straps and buckles. Gutta percha may be similarly employed, lii other cases, the double-inclined plane, in the form of Listen's splint, Avill be found best suited to keep the parts in good position. In emplo}dng this, to prevent undue pressure, it is well always, when practicable, to suspend the heel and foot by means of a sock—the end of which is hung, by a piece of tape, on a nob placed for this purpose on the upper and outer part of the footboard. It is also well, in some restless patients, to have the limb, in its splint or splints, considerably elevated, either by slinging, or otherwise. When the fracture of both bones is considerably above the ankle, the foot and lower fragments tend to pass backwards, producing a projection forwards and inwards of the upper Fig. 354. Listou's modification of Maclntyre's splint, a, The screw which in- creases or diminishes the angle of flexion ; at b, there should be a knob on the foot- board, whereby the foot may be slung. The limb is arranged so as to shew the facility afforded for dressing the wound, in the case of compound fracture.