211 NATURAL HEMOSTATICS. its inner surface; and these constitute, as it were, nuclei on which others aggregate, to form a clot more or less complete. 2. Also, by virtue of inherent elasticity of tissue, the cut artery, while it retracts within its sheath, contracts upon itself, at the cut point; diminishing its calibre there; a vital action ; producing a mechanical and obvious obstacle to profuse flow from the orifice—inasmuch as that orifice, at the moment of incision wide, is in a few seconds diminished to perhaps a half of its first dimensions. The more lax and free the sur- rounding areolar tissue, the more favourably is the vessel situated for contraction and retraction ; and vice versa. 3. More direct obstacles are thrown in the way, however; by coagu- lation of a part of the passing blood. A coagulum forms in the vacant space of the arterial sheath, as already explained ; coming ultimately to occupy that space altogether; often of a conical shape; its base resting on the cut arterial coats, its apex projecting in a pouting manner from the orifice of the sheath (Fig. 83, c)—as may be seen in the face of every recent wound. If the wound be open and free, there will be no other external clot; but, if otherwise circumstanced, a certain amount of sanguineous infiltration takes place into the surroimding areolar tissue ; the blood, so infiltrated, solidifies; and a coagulum results, more or less extensive—by the pressure of which the arterial orifice is further closed, and the first-formed clot supported in its hemostatic ofiice. The flow having been thus temporarily obstructed, a third coagulum forms ; as after deligation of an artery ; slim and twisted ; its broad base resting on that of the first clot, at the cut arterial orifice ; its slender apex some- times as high as on a level with the nearest collateral branch. 4. These im^^ortant changes are aided by the natural consequences of hemorrhage; mainly two. 1. As healthy blood flows, it becomes more and more prone to coagulate; a state obviously most favourable to for- mation of the obstructing clots. 2. The patient is affected by a growing faintness, and tendency to syncope. The heart's action abating, and the general circulation becoming more and more feeble, contraction of the arterial orifice is favoured, as also the construction of coagula. In the distal orifice of the cut artery, similar changes occur as in the cardiac ; and more readily. The contraction and retraction are greater ; and, the blood's impulse being less, coagulation takes place with both greater speed and greater firmness. By such means, in Avounds of the smaller vessels. Nature is herself equal to the task of arresting the flow for a time. And if the coagula be not disturbed by reaction, permanent occlusion of the cut orifice is effected, in the following way : II, The Permanent From the cut arterial coats fibrinous product takes place copiously ; and becomes incor- porated with the adjacent portions of coagulum, whose colouring matter disappears by absorption. The new matter becomes fixed and vascu- larised; the coats cohere by new and living texture ; and the opening IS permanently sealed. At the same time the surrounding tissues are condensed by infiltrated new matter ; whereby the permanent fibrinous arterial closure is, as it were, supported and maintained. The coagula are now useless ; their time and vocation have passed, and, in obedience to the general law, they dwindle down and finaUy disappear by absorp-