373 TEEATMENT OF LOOSE BODIES IN JOINTS. thouf^li well performed, lias an especial tendency towards an nnfavour- )le issue. An elastic bandage, or tightly fitting knee-cap, is applied, id constantly worn; with the view of restricting the body within its ,vn domain—where it proves inoffensive. Should it, at any time, never- iieless escape and become jammed between the head of the tibia and bndyles of the femur, it is to be instantly replaced, and the apparatus ^sumed as before ; and recumbency is advisable, for a few hours after- lards, in order that local excitement may wholly pass away. ! Not unfrequently, however, palliation fails. The patient's life is indered miserable, and himself unfit for active occupation ; also, organic isease may be threatened, by the oft-repeated local excitement accom- fiiiied with serous effusion. In such cases, the patient may urgently ^mand removal of the offending substance by operation; and, fortu- ^tely his request may now-a-days be agreed to, with a fair prospect of iiccess. The subcutaneous and valvular mode of puncture is adopted; jie adaptation of which method of treatment, to such cases, was resorted ^, independently of each other, in our own country and in France, by {essrs. Syme and Goyrand. In the first place, the patient is to be prepared for the operation, (or a day or two, the limb is to be disused; so that previous excitement lay have thoroughly subsided, and all fl.uid in the joint become ab- prhed. Low diet is enjoined, the primas vise are gently yet efficiently leared, and general secretion is seen to be in a satisfactory state ; so that liere may be no predisposition to iniiammatory excess, and no necessity |ir disturbing the patient for some days after the operation. Then the freign body, having been made superficial, is pushed to the extreme ^rge of the synovial pouch—either on the inside or on the outside ; the patella, as may be most convenient; and there it is retained Isedly, by the fingers of an assistant. A tenotomy knife, or thin and ^n'ow bistoury, of fine edge, is passed in an oblique direction beneath jie skin; and an incision is first made parallel to the skin and capsule f the joint, so as to form a cavity for the cartilage to occupy when ex- jiuded from the joint. This should be a little larger than the outline of e cartilage. Another incision is then made through the tense synovial embrane; pressing the knife's edge very firmly on the cartilage, so as make as sure as possible of the wound being in all its extent complete no fibre left undivided. The instrument is then withdrawn slowly d cautiously, the finger gently yet firmly following and consolidating its ack A few drops of blood escape, but not a particle of synovia; and no lu- has obtained admission, even to the areolar tissue. The integumental ound is immediately and carefully occluded, by plaster or collodion. I The foreign body is then pressed through the aperture in the syno- lal capsule ; which aperture, as has just been stated, is made sufficiently ■ee to admit of this being accompHshed without force or difficulty. At sast such is the indication. Eut, truth to tell, this is the difficulty of fie case. With all care the wound is sometimes imperfect or insufficient, jnd through it the cartilage will not be coaxed readily, if at all. When jnce It 18 lodged, by gentle pressure of the fingers, in the areolar tissue, jxtenor to the capsule, where the pouch has been })repared to receive it, ^nere it is permitted to remain. Not permanently, however, as has been