OPEEATIONS. 587 im-esting fascite of a hernial tumour, for example, are to he cautiously —dissecting forceps will be found the most convenient instrument for elevation previous to incision. " In dividing the skin, the knife, whether a scalpel or a bistoury, is to be held and entered with the point and blade at right angles to the surface. It is carried with a decided movement down to the subcutane- ous cellular' tissue; the blade is then incHned towards the part to be divided, and by a rapid and slightly salving motion—as little pressure being applied as possible—division is effected to the desired extent. The incision is finished by withdrawing the knife in a position perpen- dicular to the surface, so as to divide the entire thickness of the skin at the extremity as well as at the origin of the wound. For dexterously effecting such manipulations, the fingers must be educated; and diligent practice in the dissectmg-room will be found the best foundation for sur- gical dexterity, as it is for sound surgical knowledge; it is only when we have acquired dexterity on the dead subject that we can be justified in interfering with the living." By practice, the pupil will be enabled to use either hand almost equally well; and none should neglect to attain this power—for an ambidextrous surgeon possesses great advantages as an operator. "While an ordinary degree of expertness is within the reach of any one, Avho will industriously seek for and improve the opportunities for its acquirement, yet a certain combination of natural qualifications is un- doubtedly necessary to the attainment of pre-eminence in operative sur- gery ; a great operator in one respect resembling a great poet,—" nascitur, non fit." The importance of these natural gifts did not escape Celsus. " He must be young, or at most but middle-aged," says he, " and have a strong steady hand, never subject to tremble. He must be ambidextrous, and of a quick, clear sight. He must be bold, and so far void of pity that he may have in view only the cure of him whom he has taken in hand, and not, in compassion to cries, either make more haste than the (. [se requires, or cut less than is necessary, but do all as if he were not nloved by the shrieks of his patient." The coolness and courage thus incrdcated are among the most valuable natural gifts of the surgeon; and it would be well, too, did every patient remember that they are equally important in himself, for on Ms steadiness and patience under suffeiing much of the celerity and success of an operation may sometimes depend. In the present day, however, the operator is much less dependent on his patient than he was wont to be ; in the great majority of cases the latter being absolutely passive in his hands, because quietly recumbent under the influence of complete anaesthesia. The obtaining of such quietude and non-resistance, the abolition of pain, the mitigation of ^ock, and various other advantages afi'ecting botli operator and patient, from the judicious use of chloroform, have been already fully considered ; and on that subject it is not necessary again to enlarge. The necessity for an operation, in any case, having been clearly eatahhshed,^ our object is to perform it as safely and expeditiously as possible. The mere absence of protracted pain confers a most important advantage on the reparative powers of the eystem; and, so far, celerity