1080 SOUNDING. sjTuptoms will vary. The oxalate of lime at first gives little trouble ■ but it becomes coated with uric concretion, and increase of pain at once announces the change; again the oxaluria prevails, and a remission in the symptoms is experienced. But should the phosphatic diathesis ensue, the symptoms are more severe than they have yet been. For not only is the aggravation of the symptoms local; the constitution also suffers, and that seriously. By supervention of enlargement of the prostate, the symptoms may be either mitigated or increased. If the gland simply increase in bulk, the former result may take place; the swelling coming to occupy the most sensitive part of the bladder, and consequently saving that from contact with the stone. But if the gland be ulcerated towards the bladder, and the stone rest in contact with the ulcerated surface, suffer- ing will be greatly aggravated. The most ordinary and diagnostic signs of stone are—frequent, sud- den, irresistible, unrelieved desire to make water; pain at the point of the penis, best marked after the bladder is empty ; mucous urine, occa- sionally bloody; sudden arrest of the flow of urine, and restoration of the flow by change of posture. These fully warrant the surgeon in sus- pecting the existence of vesical calculus, and in adopting the necessary means to detect it; but of themselves, they never prove the existence of stone. The general symptoms of stone—and even the most pointed of them—may be very closely simulated by other affections ; by organio disease of the kidney, by renal calculus, by irritation or organic disease in the rectum, by disease of the coats of the bladder, by prostatic affection, by stricture of the urethra. Certainty can never be arrived at without the use of the sound. This operation consists in the introduction of an instrument into the bladder, by means of which the stone may be felt and heard, when the instrument comes in contact "with its surface. The operation must always be regarded as an important one, requiring care and skill in its satisfactory employment. As the introduction of a sound by the urethra, and its movement in the bladder during perquisition, must always be attended with more or less uneasiness or even suffering—unless ansesthesia by chloroform be employed—and as there may always be a greater or less risk of undue excitement following, it should not be at once and indis- criminately resorted to. It can readily be understood how the careless and rude use of a soimd in an irritable bladder and patient—had re- course to after walking, or travelling in any way, and not protected by rest and suitable treatment afterwards—may induce serious cystitis, with implication of the kidney ; and it is salutary to remember that a cystitis thus caused has once and again proved fatal. A patient—say from the country and just arrived—presenting himself with the ordinary symptoms of stone, is not at once to be sounded, and at once dismissed. We should first ascertain that pulse, kidney, and bladder are sufficiently quiet to admit of this operation being practised with impimity; and, after its performance, rest should certainly be enjoined for some time, perhaps with sedative, or even antiphlogistic treatment. In children, and in irritable adults, it is well to use chloroform, as formerly stated. The instrument best suited for the purpose of sounding, and in com-