CHAPTER LIIL AFFECTIONS OF THE MAMMA AND MAMMILLA. Irritable Mamma. The female breast is not unfrequently the seat of irritation ; giving rise to much local uneasiness, and tending also to involve the system in serious disorder. The gland may be partially or wholly affected, but is little, if at aU, diseased in structure; sometimes there is only slight puffiness in the superficial areolar tissue ; or the texture of the lobules is unusually firm, and when cut into whiter and denser than in the normal state; sometimes, also, the affected part contains one or more small lacti- ferous cysts, varying in size from a pin's bead to a coriander seed, filled with a clear serous fluid. The pain, which is the chief characteristic of this disease, is very considerable ; not constant, liable to exacerba- tions, often periodic, and otherwise evincing the ordinary characters of neuralgia. Aggravation generally occurs at the menstrual period. The patient is usually about the middle age ; and generally pale, thin, and cachectic, of a nervous temperament—often under the influence of mental depression due to grief, disappointment, or anxiety. The affection is to be considered as symptomatic of more serious disease, and treated accordingly. In the majority of cases, the uterus is to blame—disordered either in structure or in function ; and until this source of evil be rectified, aU other treatment will prove of little avail In cases of functional derangement, the preparations of iron are indicated ; and conium is sometimes of service in allaying the general irritation of system. Locally, the endermic use of nitrate of silver, so as merely to blacken, often affords reUef; and belladonna, aconite, and prussic acid, may be used in the form of ointment, liniment, or plaster. Change of air, exercise, attention to diet, and the other ordinary correctives of chronic disease, are of great importance. In some cases the symptoms seem dependent on neuromatous formation in the neighbourhood of the gland; and under such circumstances, cure may be readily effected by excision of the superficial tumour, or even of the affected portion of the breast—especially in those cases where the patient broods night and day over her sufferings, and evidently suffers from an irrepressible fear of malignant disease. Sometimes, however, even the removal of the whole breast affords no rehef; the pain continuing in the cicatrix, or becoming transferred to the other breast. Mammitis. Acute.—The acute inflammatory process in the mamma, especially 3 R