304 NECEOSIS. matory process altogether subsides. Should the cloacaa remain unclosed, the soft parts may notwitlistanding heal kindly over them ; provided there be no dead bone remaining, to keep up purulent discharge. ."Before removal of the dead part, there was much bulky swelling of the limb; partly from the infiltrated condition of the soft parts, i)artly from the elevated position of the cortical bone. But now this latter seeks a lower level. Besides, the continuous chronic irritation so acts as to condense and strengthen the new texture; rendering it more efficient as part of a column of support. And, at the same time, the inflammatory process having in all its grades and every^vhere abated, absorption is not idle in the superimposed soft textures. In consequence, the unseemly swelling gradually disappears ; and, ultimately, the part has both its function and its symmetry more or less completely restored. Hitherto, we have been speaking of the restorative process as occur- ring in a case of partial necrosis; an external portion only having peiished; living bone on one side, and periosteum on the other. Events are very similar in the other forms of the disease. When the necrosis is Liternal, a part of the cancellous texture only having died, reparation follows rapidly on extrusion of the sequestrum. This takes place through an aperture, formed by ulceration, in the laminated portion ; which opening, like the corresponding interruption of continuity in cortical formation, is termed a cloaca. And when through this, whether by nature or by art, extrusion has been effected, reproduction is accomplished entirely by the surrounding living bone, which constitutes the parietes of the cavity in which the sequestrum lodged. At first, the new structure is of preter- natural density; but by the continued work of absorption, the normal characters of the bone are ultimately restored. When the internal sequestrum is small, the original inflammatory affection having been but limited, and the present suppuration being but slow and slight, ulcerative perforation of the bone for discharge of both pus and sequestrum may be a very tedious process. Meanwhile, by con- tinued presence of the foreign body within, ostitis of a minor grade is permanently maintained in the vicinity, and perhaps to a wide extent. In consequence, the bone may become much enlarged, as well as con- densed in its structure; and often is roughly nodulated on the exterior. A somewhat similar change in the shaft of a long bone also foUows the formation and lodgment of a large internal sequestrum; in connection with which a cloaca may have been early formed, but too minute to admit of spontaneous extrusion. When a portion of bone including its whole thickness has perished, the process of separation advances in the usual M^ay; as also the com- mencement of reparation, by osseous production from the living margins of the sulcus. As usual, tliis osseous production, begim by the boue, is continued by the periosteum; shelving over the exterior of the dead part. The sequestrum, when loose, is dislodged from its continuous rela- tion to the living shaft; and tliis dislocation may perhaps be the M-ork of surrounding osseous granulations. It then gradually seeks the surface. And thus both room and opportunity are afforded for the parent boue, on each mutilated aspect, to send forth its reproductive formation; some- times not very vigorously or copiously furnished, and always in a shelvmg