VKLOSYNTIIESIS. 774 The operation is termed Staxihyloraplie, or Velosynthesis. It con- sists of three distinct parts ; preparation of tlio velum, paring of the edges' and approximation of the fissure by suture. Tlie first part requires souie considerable time for its completion. For weelcs before the actual opera- tion, the patient accustoms himself to open his moutli wide, and to retain it so, steadily and enduringly—witli no effort at deglutition of sahva ■ and he also seeks to reduce the irritability of the parts, l)y frequently touching them witlr his finger, or otherwise. The nature of the operation is fully and candidly explained to him, and his willing co-operation secured. Before operating it is usually well to let Mm have a good full meal, as for several days it is desirable that all efforts at deglutition should be avoided. In operating, the patient should be seated before a good light, with the mouth widely opened, and the edges of the fissure are made raw, by a Wenzel's cataract knife or a sharp-pointed bistoury, used as in harelip; a long volsella being employed to seize the uvular extremity of each half of the soft palate, and so to make it tense during incision. This completes the second part of the operation. Some time is now allowed to intervene, in order that the oozing of blood may cease; and it is well to employ iced water as a gargle to facilitate this result. The third part of the procedure consists in bringing the wound into accurate apposition ; diminishing the strain on the sutures, if need be, by incision of the mucous membrane; and keeping the part in a state of as complete quietude as circumstances will possibly allow. Approximation is not attempted until the bleeding has wholly ceased. The necessary number of silver wire sutures are passed; taking care in their introduction to exclude the nasal mucous membrane, so that in the loop of the wire the buccal mucous mem- brane and texture of the soft palate shall alone be included. Not a few instruments have been contrived for facilitating the introduction of sutures in this operation—undoubtedly one re- quiring nicety of manipulation ; but the curved needle in a fixed handle, or a short and very r much curved needle held by means of poiie- be found more easily managed than any other Fig. 279. aiguille forceps, will device. Wlien approximation has been completed, should there be much \ traction upon the sutures, it has been recommended by Eoux, and more recently by Mr. Pollock, to make a longitudinal incision on either side of the palate parallel to the cleft, through the mucous membrane and muscular expansions, so as to put the palate at rest and diminish traction on the line of union. Absolute starvation is not desirable. But only simple farinaceous food in small quantity should be administered from time to time; the patient being as passive as possible in the act of swallowing. To allay irritation, the mouth may be frequently rinsed with Fig. 279. Plan of Stapliyloraphe. The dotted lines mark the liberating incisions of the mucons memhrane.