EMBOLISM. 435 SiuUleii, painful, and coinplote obstruction, however, may occur in another way; namely, by the arrest of a clot of fibrin, which may have come from the heart, or been formed at a distant part of the arterial circulation. This condition is termed Embolism. Acute pain is complained of in the part, sometimes shooting down the limb ; pulsation is arrested beyond the point of obstruction ; the limb becomes numb and cold; and, in short, the effects are very similar to those of arterial deligation. The pain continues, and spreads along the course of the vessel; the obstructed pai-t, besides feeling tender, is perhaps somewhat swoln. The system sympatliises ; and sometimes seriously. The risk in the case of the arteries of the extremities is gangrene, unless healthy vessels, youth, and systemic vigour enable the parts to hold out till the collateral circulation has been fully established. In the vessels of the head and neck, the interference with the normal supply of blood to the corresponding part or side of the brain, induces depression of function, and, it may be, softening of the portion of cerebral substance so affected. The symptoms, in such circumstances, are fre- quently first apoplectic, accompanied with hemiplegia ; this either con- tinuing persistent, or followed by partial or complete recovery. Treatment is mainly negative ; abstaining rigidly from the employ- ment of heat, stimulants, or friction to the Hmb. Opium internally is of much use, not only in assuaging pain, but also in contributing to maintenance of the circulation ; but, of course, when the brain is the part affected, opiates must be withheld, unless the severity of the pain demands their use. In prolonged cases, when a limb remains swoln, hard, and powerless, some benefit may arise from the local use of mer- cury, apphed without friction. These observations apply to arteries of the aortic system. Those of the pulmonary are liable to similar lesion, the impacted plug coming from the right side of the heart, or having been carried through this from a vein. The symptoms are, from the first, most alarming and distressing; in most cases, where the extent of circulation interfered with is great, terminating fatally by asphyxia.