117 THE INDOLENT SORE. ulcer, the patient suffers little paiu or other uneasiness ; and continues his wonted avocations. But he receives a blow on the part; or is exposed to wet and cold, or other exciting cause of the intlamraatory process. This is induced, in and around the sore; he can work no longer; the erect position, even, is difficult; and he then appHes for rehef. Under such circumstances, the ordinary characters of the indolent class are seen, as it were, through an inflammatory medium. The surrounding skin is red, more swoln, painful; and even the callous margms are discoloured. The raAv surface is still low, and void of granulation, but red and soften- ing. The discharge is still thin; but bloody, and mixed with more or less disintegrated texture; for ulceration is soon re-estabhshed. By and by, the part, being low in power, is overborne; the margins, as well as the sm^face of the sore, become converted into a slough; and, as such, are gradually detached. On separation of these, we expect to find a healthy surface beneath; so soon as the inflammatory and ulcerative processes shall have subsided. The Mucous Sore, of some authors, is iisnally a variety of the indolent class ; in which the raw surface, by reason of long persistence, has been thorouglily converted into a resemblance of mticons tissue ; pale-red, smooth, and villous; slrining, as if varnished; with a limpid, qnasi- mucous discharge. Or a weak sore, without assuming much of the indolent character, may degenerate into a mucous-looking surface ; as after wound. Treatment of the Indolent Sore.—As just stated, the part is usually presented in an inflamed state. The patient is put to bed, and a poultice is applied to the sore and its vicinity. The tongue will be found heavily coated ; and other plain indications of derangement in the primse vi^ will not be wanting. An active purge, repeated if necessary, is therefore highly expedient. Low diet is enjoined; and if this, with action on the bowels, be not quite equal to allay the inflammatory fever, which is Hkely to be more or less developed, aconite or antimony may be also given. Thus, in a day or two, a cleansing of the sore is obtained; that is, the slough, having become completed, separates by ulceration ; the inflamma- tory process subsides from the suppurative and ulcerative grades, and remains in a more subdued form, favourable to plastic effort. Conse- quently, on detachment of the slough, a healthy surface is usually found beneath; demanding the kind of treatment suitable to the first class of sore. "When the sore is presented in the simply indolent state, two modes of treatment are in our option. First, we may imitate the process whereby Ifature rids the part of its incubus : by induction of the inflammatory process in the margins of the sore and thickened textures by which they are environed. This converts the callous indolent sore into an inflamed ulcer, followed by removal of the old plastic products, and giving the granulating condition on subsidence of the inflammatory. For this pur- pose, a bHster is probably the most convenient stimulus. Usually, it is applied so as to act over a considerable extent of surface; and, after the requisite amount of inflammatory disturbance has been induced, the treat- ment is the same as that abeady advised under similar circumstances of