123 THE phaCtEd,^;nic sore. slough on the breach of surface. And this is an example of what may be termed the secondary sloughing sore ; not commencing with a slough ; but an ulcer, passing into that condition, and remaining so degene- rated. The originating slough is sometimes dry, sometimes moist; according to the rapidity with which the destructive process has advanced Usually, great humidity is one of the most characteristic features of the sore. When dry, the case may be termed a chronic form of the disease ; by far the less frequent in occurrence. Sometimes, after a dry commencement has been made, rapid transition takes place into the humid form, accompanied with great pain; the discharge commencing when the first slough begins to separate, and soon becoming profuse. Whatever may have been the previous state of system, there is soon much consti- tutional irritation; and, at the same time, the primse viae—^by loaded tongue, foetid breath, etc.—generally indicate very prominent disorder there. Not unfre- quently—as in the malignant pustule—a vesicular or pustular condition of the surface briefly precedes actual death of the part. A superficial slough having fairly formed, it begins to be detached. Its edges loosen, and expose the subjacent parts ; but these, instead of shewing the red fleshy granulations of repair, or even the angry aspect of advancing ulceration, disclose but a new formation of slough, soft and tawny. And thus grangrene upon gangrene may succeed—in strata, as it were—until the part has been frightfully mutilated, and the system brought into most alarming disorder. The surface is generally of an ashy hue; sometimes inflated by extricated gases; sometimes darkened by commixture with a grumous bloody serum. The discharge is thin, foetid, sanious; usually very profuse, giving the characteristic humidity; and mingled with putrid solids, partially dissolved. Not unfrequently, hemor- rhage takes place; profuse ; arterial or venous, more frequently the former ; the sloughing having opened a vessel of considerable size and activity. The result of this bleeding is sometimes beneficial, sometimes hazardous : the former, if it afi'ect only the part—critically resolving the action ; the latter, if it afi'ect not only the part but the system—depres- sing still further the powers of life, which are abeady too low. Fatal results, from this cause, have not been unfrequent. There is every reason to believe that this form of malady, when occurring in difi'erent members of a community, or in the wards of an hospital, is contagious ; and that the secretion from a sore of this kind, appUed to a healthy ulcer, or perhaps even to an unbroken portion of skin, may induce a state similar to the original. 9. The PJiagedcenic Sore. This is a spreading ulcer j destruction advancing more determinedly than in simple ulceration, however acute ; but still by molecules ; not by Fig. 31. The sloughing sore, as affecting the penis. The prepuce ahnost gone ; the glans going.—Acton.