486 BITES OF SERPENTS. ments ; and to many other clironic disorders, of •wliicli debility is the prevailing type. Affections of both part and system, in. many respects resembluig those arising from dissection wounds, not unfrequently occur in nurses or others who attend unwholesome sores, or who are employed in the washing of foul linen. Similar treatment is required; tartarized antimony in nauseating doses internally being regarded by such patients quite as a specific. Both practitioners and nurses may contract chancres and syphilis from punctures or rag-nails, exposed to contamination while in attendance upon patients suffering from these conditions; and the true nature of the disease is sometimes ovei'looked, till the unmistakeable signs of constitutional contamination become apparent. The treatment under such circumstances is that of the form of specific disease contracted. Poisoned Wounds by Healthy Animals. The Stings of Insects may be formidable by their number, by the susceptibility and state of system of the person injured, and by the nature of the part affected. Poison introduced by the stings of a swarm of bees, wasps, or hornets, may be sufficient to prostrate even the strongest individual; but such an intense and concentrated form of the mischief is of rare occurrence. A less amount of injury done to a young child, to a nervous and delicate female, or to any one of temporarily reduced power, may be equally alarming in its effects. The sting of a solitary bee or wasp in the fauces, as sometimes happens to the incautious eaters of fruit, is likely to produce such an amount of acute swelling as to threaten rapid asphyxia. But, ordinarily, the stings of insects in this country are neither many nor serious. In the first place, the part or parts should be minutely examined by means of a lens; and if the stings are found inserted, they should be carefully removed by finely-pointed forceps. Liquor potassse, a solution of carbonate of soda, or weak ammonia, are supposed to have the effect of neutralising the virus ; the wound, consequently, may be wetted with any of them. Then, perhaps, the best apphcation, both in theory and practice, is the continuous use of cold; a remedy simple, effectual, and always within our reach. Constitutionally, restoratives maybe required, at first, to remove the shock under which the patient may be found labouring; partly from fright, partly physical from introduction of the virus. For this purpose nothing answers so well as aromatic spirits of ammonia. Afterwards, calmatives to the nervous system and gentle antiphlogistics may be expedient; to subdue slight febrile excitement. In the formidable case of injury to the fauces—threatening asphyxia by rapid mucous swelling—scarification of the part, fomentation outside and in, and the due amount of antiphlogistics, are required; employed ac- tively. And should such means fail, tracheotomy ought to be per- formed. Tlie Bites of Serpents, in hot climates, are extremely formidable. In this country they are comparatively trivial; man having no Avorse enemy, in this class, than the common viper; whose venom is sufficiently powerful to kill the smaller animals, but fortunately is comparatively