1333 RUPTURE OF THE TENDO A.CIIILLIS. Dislocation of the Toes. Luxation of the phalanges of the toes is rare. Reduction is readily effected, hy extension and coaptation. Compound luxations usually re- quire amputation. Subluxations and Sprains of the Lower Extremity. The hip is seldom sprained. The knee suffers not unfrequently. The twist is usually such as to strain the inner aspect of the joint; and there the ligamentous apparatus may partially give way. Pain is great and sickening; much swelling ensues, perhaps involving the synovial capsule ; and the part is apt to remain weak, and prone to recurrence of the injury. In addition to the ordinary treatment suitable for sprain, the wearing of a knee-cap is essential for some time, until the part, by consolidation, regain its power of resisting the more ordinary applications of force. Sprains of the ankle are extremely common; by twisting the foot, by a fall, or by a " false step," The most ordinary sprain is caused by twisting the foot inwards ; and the consequent pain and swelling are on the outside of the foot—often great over the belly of the short extensor of the toes. Treatment is by rest, fomentation, leeching, etc. And an elastic bandage on the ankle is necessary, for some time, after walking has been resumed. Injuries op the Tbndo Achtllis, and op the Gastrocnemius, Soleus, AND PlANTARIS GRACILIS MuSCLES. Rupture of the Tendo Achillis.—By sudden and violent exertion of the sural muscles, as in leaping, dancing, or running—more especially if the patient be muscular, gouty, or rheumatic, advanced in years, and unaccustomed to such exercise—the tendo Achillis is apt to give way, close to or at its insertion into the calcaneum. There' is immediate lame- ness ; the patient falls, and is quite unable to resume the ordinary erect posture ; much pain is complained of in the part; and, on manipulation, a very palpable gap is found at the site of injury. Usually there is, at the time of rupture, a sensation of something having given way j some- times there is an audible snap ; not unfrequently the patient complains of having been struck at the injured part, although no blow has been sustained there. Treatment is simple. Position, alone, suffices for re- placement. The leg is bent, and the foot is extended, so as to relax the sural muscles completely, and favour approximation. This position is maintained by simple means. A slipper .is placed on the foot ; to the heel of the slipper a stout cord or tape is attached ; and this is fastened to the thigh, by means of a circular belt applied there—or to the loins, in a like manner—as tightly as is necessary for securing the requisite degree of flexion. Bending may be voluntarily increased by the patient; and this does no harm. But extension is absolutely prevented. Eepara- tion is slow ; and the period of confinement requires to be enlarged, a