STRANGULATED HEimiA. 1013 Such is tlio ordinary course of a strangulated lieniia, unrelieved. But there may ho anotlier and less formidahle termination. In the pro- gress of the case, the integument and other envelopes of tlie tumour hecome involved in the inflammatory process ; at first they are bright red, tense, and very painful; afterwards darker in hue ; less painful and tense, cold, phlyctenulous—in fact ganga-encd. The contents are in a similar condition. All slough. And, on separation of the mortified parts, copious fsecnlent discharge takes place ; relief follows immediately; the urgency of the symptoms is over; and gi-adual recovery may ensue, with the establishment of artificial anus. In the preceding enumeration of symptoms, we have first the signs of obstruction, and then those of inflammatory accession, in the protruded parts. The obstruction may, however, be to all appearance absent. Con- stipation, as we have seen, is not altogether due to mechanical obstruc- tion, and may therefore in an omental hernia be less decided. In sucli cases, or sometimes even when mechanical obstruction to fasculent floAv is complete, the evacuation of the contents of the colon, or even in part of the small intestine when the interruption is situated high, may be mistaken for a satisfactory movement. In other cases, the trouble- some and urgent desire to go to stool which the patient experiences may, for a time, deceive himself, his friends, and even the practitioner, into the belief that the disease is simply diarrhoea or dysentery. In other cases again, especially in large irreducible hernise, the inflammatory process, instead of resulting from the constriction, may be the original affection; caused, perhaps, by a blow—though a less du'ect and palpable exciting cause may suffice. The tumour is painful, and red, and swoln, even for some time, while as yet the abdomen is free from ailment, and the bowels are worldng naturally. Then the pain and tension are chiefly at the body of the tumour, in the first instance, instead of at the neck as in primary constriction. But, the inflammatory process continuing, en- gorgement with serous accumulation takes place, the bulk of the whole tumour is increased, in consequence constriction occurs—and then follow obstruction of the bowels, affection of the abdomen, and aggravation of the local disorder. The rate of progress varies according to circumstances. When the tumour is small and recent, constriction is usually tight j and especially in the young and vigorous, death of the parts, at least if unrelieved, is certain in a few hours. Whereas, if the hernia be of some size and long standing, and if obstruction precede the inflammatory process, and neither prove urgent, days may elapse ere much local mischief is done, or the system becomes involved. On the average, however, it is not by days but by hours that the registration of time is made in cases of strangu- lated hernia. And, by the practical man, time should invariably be regarded as of vital importance. Many, if not all, of these symptoms may exist, independently of either hernia or strangulation. Whenever they do occur, however, Jiernia is invariably to be suspected, and the necessary inquiry and examination should be made under all circumstances. There may bo no tumour found at the ordinary sites of protrusion, or at any otlior accessible part of the abdominal parietes ; then it is probable that the symptoms are