LIGATUUE OF THE SUBCLAVIAN. 891 tion of the artery at its upper part has been practised, with anatomically a more reasonable hope of cure. For, as formerly stated, the common carotid is fa\^ourably adapted for Brasdor's operation, should it ever again be deemed right to undertake its perlbrmance. Deligation of the External Carotid, and its Iranclies, is required only in the case of hemorrhage ; and chiefly on account of wounds. No definite rules need be given as to the operative procedure ; this must be guided by the general principles formerly inculcated, and modified by the particular circumstances of the case—the rule being to tie the bleed- ing vessel at, and on both the cardiac and distal aspect of the bleeding point. The lingual arteries have been tied—in one case by Mr. Listen, for tmeurism by anastomosis of the tongue; and on other occasions for hemorrhage after wounds of that organ. The results of such a practice, however, have not been of a kind to encourage its imitation. The superior thyroids have also been tied, in the hope of arresting the development of thyroidal enlargements, with no satisfactory result. The facial requires double hgature when divided in excision of the lower jaw. The temporal used frequently to be the subject of operation on accoimt of secondary hemorrhage, or traumatic aneurism, when arterio- tomy was performed in the main trunk, and not in its anterior branch. Deligation of the Arteria Anonyma is an operation now considered hopeless ; and, in all probability, will never be repeated by any judicious surgeon; circumstances seeming to be insuperably hostile to satisfactory occlusion of the artery at the deligated point. In Grafe's and Lizars' cases, fatal secondary hemorrhage supervened at the end of two months after the operation. The ligature of the root of the carotid and first stage of the subclavian, which has been practised as a substitute, has been found equally disastrous in result. Deligation of the Subclavian. This artery requires ligature, on account of axillary aneurism. He- morrhage by wound or ulcer is likely to call for the operation but rarely. Although in bleeding from the axillary artery, or from the deeper parts of the axilla, ligature of the subclavian, with the application of a gra- duated compress iu the cavity of the axilla, has been followed by satis- fectory results, the free anastomosis between the branches of the first stage of the subclavian and the second stage of the axillary renders such a plan of treatment unsound in principle. The facility of the ligature of the subclavian, and the avoidance of an extensive division of the anterior wall of the axilla, which deligation of the vessel at the bleeding point would of course require, has probably been the reason why the subcla- vian ligature has been preferentially resorted to in such cases. The subclavian artery is conveniently divided for surgical considera- tion into three portions ; internal, from its origin to the inner border of the scaleni j middle, where overlaid by the anterior scalenus; external, between the outer border of this muscle and the lower margin of the first nb or costo-coracoid aponeurosis. On the right side, it is possible to secure the artery at any of these parts of its course ; on the left, the two last are equally accessible ; l)ut the internal thu-d—being not only