TREATMENT OF ERECTILE TUMOUR. 432 lace, and neck. As the subcutaneous form is rarely met with, however, this modification is seldom applicable in practice. SomotiniGS the morbid structure is so diffuse, as to render inclusion of the whole, by one deligation, impractica ble. In that case, it may be taken away in detachments; the operation being repeated at different parts, successively. 2. By diminution of the arterial suppUj.—When the tumour is so situated as to be inaccessible either by knife or ligature, this mode of treatment is advisable. When, for example, erectile tissue occupies the cavity of the orbit, we are warranted in performing deligation of the common carotid; and experience has spoken in favour of the practice. Circulation is weakened in the tumour, not arrested ; and coagulation may occur, causing obliteration ; or it is possible that the dilated vessels may recover their normal calibre, and remain pervious. The salutary result is greatly favoured by free blood-letting, after the operation; a practice in two points of view highly expedient; first, because protective of internal organs from congestion, as formerly explained ; second, by maintaining a diminished circulation in the part, as well as in the whole system, favourable to the desired salutary change. At the same time, the other means, formerly spoken of as conducive to languor of circula- tion, will not be neglected. When the arteries which feed a large tumour on any j)art of the general surface are numerous, deligation of the principal trunk at some distance is not likely to prove effectual In such circumstances, it has been proposed to surround the tumour by incision, so as to cut off the vascular supply; tying each vessel as it springs ; inducing flaccidity and collapse of the tumour; and by continued pressure, afterwards, probably causing obliteration of the morbid tissue. Or, instead of deligation, the feeding arteries may be obhterated by the twisted suture; as in varix. The practice has been adopted with partial success; but in aU situations where deligation of the tumour is available, this is much to be preferred. 3. By effecting change of structure; consolidating the contents of the vessels, and obliterating their canals ; converting by plastic change the loose tubular texture into a dense and compact mass. Tliis may be effected in various ways. Pressure may be applied with sufficient intensity. In consequence, sloughing may occur; but if this be preceded and accompanied by dense plastic change, no harm will result. If the growth be small and superficial, a fine needle may be passed beneath, and a roll of ligature appHed above, as in twisted suture; the needle being withdrawn so soon as the inflammatory process seems to be sufficiently excited by compression. Formations capable of being so treated are sometimes found on the bridge of the nose; especially in tlie female. Potassa fusa may be applied. Not intensely, so as to produce a large eschar ; for, on its separation, there would be a risk of hemorrhage ; but lightly, so as to induce ulceration—imitating the form of spontaneous cure which sometimes occurs. The galvanic cautery, a red-hot needle or awl, or one dipped in any