OXALUKIA. 1065 Simple though the alkaline remedies seem, let them never be per- severed with carelessly. Their over-sustained use may convert the sthenic state of system into the asthenic, inducing serious constitutional disorder, and causing an ammoniacal and phosphatic state of the urine. The test- paper must be used from time to time, and the state of the system must be carefully attended to. In those cases in which digestion is obviously weak and imperfect, preparations of iron are useful; the citrate, in solution, may be given in moderate doses after each meal. Eegimen is carefully attended to ; food being regulated as to both quantity and quality. Nothing at all approach- ing to a surfeit should ever be indulged in; animal food should be taken sparingly, if at all; vegetables and farinaceous articles may be freely used, provided acidity be not produced; malt liquors should be abstained from; and wine, if taken at all, must be used with great moderation. The bowels require laxatives or alteratives. In most cases, a mercurial purge is a good beginning of the treatment j and, if the sthenic constitutional symptoms amount to a febrile character, cup- ping may be also practised on the loins. The skin must be attended to ; by ablution, warm clothing, friction, and exercise; and if any eruption exist, means must be taken to remedy that. Occasionally, gentle diuretics would seem to be of service. Colchicum, it is well known, is a powerful eliminator of uric acid; and hence, probably, the main reason of its success in gout and rheumatism. When congestion of the kidney is suspected, the treatment is by cupping, rest, and antiphlogistic regimen. The term "gravel" is ordinarily applied to the passing of the uric acid deposit. It begins severely, and is liable to aggravations; and these periods of intensity are termed " fits of the gravel"—characterized by pain in the lumbar region, shooting down towards the groin, with pain and retraction of the testicle; frequent micturition, hot and scald- ing ; uneasy sensations in the thighs, very frequently; more or less febrile disturbance ; and always plain indications of great derangement of the digestive organs. It is in such cases that purging, antiphlogistic regimen, and sometimes local blood-letting, form so excellent a com- mencement to the remedial means. The ordinary treatment may be reduced to the following indications: —1. To diminish the uric formation; by moderate antiphlogistics; regulation of diet and exercise ; and attention to the skin. 2. To in- crease the solvent power of the urine ; by diluents, given cold—yet not so as to discourage perspiration; and by gentle diuretics, if necessary. 3. To increase the solubility of the deposit; by preventing or neutraliz- ing the free acid, which, spohative of the urate's base, causes precipita- tion of the uric acid; and by presenting an alkaH as a soluble base to the uric acid. 4. The fourth indication is one of no slight' importance —to favour extrusion of the gravel; by diuretics and diluents ; by warm bathing ; and by exercise. And, in regard to this, it is weU to remember that the particles of uric gravel are especially prone to aggregation. Ilie Oxalate of Lime Deposit—Tlie occurrence of oxalate of Hme in the urine as a source of calculus has been long known; but the fre- quency of this deposit was much underrated, until the careful researches