WOUNDS OF THE THROAT. S56 same time paid to uiaintaiu an equable and genial temi)erament in the apartment. Duly (jualificd attendants are at hand not only to guard against repetition of the suicidal attempt, but also prepared to separate and clear the wound, should swelling and entanglement of mucus render such a pi-oceeding necessary to prevent suffocation. And the patient should be instructed to facilitate his expectoration, by completely shut- ting or very much diminishing the wound, by means of liis fingers, at the time of the effort being made. It is hoped that the wound will in- flame, granulate, contract, and cicatrize, in the ordinary way; and the local treatment is conducted with that object in view. Constitutionally, we have to guard against favouruig inflammatory access in the wound, and in the air-passages, through neglect of antiphlogistic measures; and, on the other hand, we must beware of aggi'avating the tendency to sinking, which sooner or later becomes apparent in the majority of cases. ' As a general rule, blood-letting from the system is seldom if ever warrantable. Should the pharynx or oesophagus have been wounded, the use of a tube becomes necessary to convey nourishment to the stomach. In some cases, also, where the gullet is not injured, but the injury done to the larynx or trachea is extensive, the use of the feeding tube becomes expe- dient. In the first case, during the ordinary effort of deglutition, imless the tube is used, the ingesta necessarily escape more or less copiously by the wound, and so do harm in many ways; in the second, by employing the tube the necessity for the act of deglutition in administering food is avoided, the parts are kept at rest, and healing of the wound is expedited. The feeding tube cannot be inserted from the wound—although the facility of such a proceeding may invite the attempt— otherwise closure of the wound must be seriously inter- fered with. If intended to be introduced and worn permanently, until the pharyngeal or oesophageal aper- ture shall have closed, it is passed by the mouth, carried into the oesophagus, and then the proximal end is with- drawn by the nostril and retained there. But it is found to be more expedient to introduce the tube only occa- siona.lly, by the mouth ; twice or thrice daily, as circum- stances may seem to require. It is not necessary to pass the instrument completely down to the stomach ; it is enough that its extremity is placed fairly beyond the woimd. And, of course, the precaution is not neglected of ascertaining that lodgment is rightly ac- complished, ere fluid nourishment is begun to be intro- duced. One very obvious objection to the permanent retention of a tube, whether passed by the mouth or l y the nose, is that its extremity, pressing against the pos- terior part of the windpipe, is apt to occasion ulceration there, which may perforate; complicating the case untowardly, by tho establishment of tracheal fistula. Should this occur—as has happened— Fig. 296. " A view from behind of the larynx of a patient who some weeks ]ii < • viously attempted stiicide, by womiding the fore pai-t of the neck. _ By some m>- maniU'einent, the edges of the incision were kept svsundev ; and they cicatrized. '> patient was seized with dillicnlt In-cathiiig ; the inspirations were rare, long, and InW-