683 CORNEITIS. is no mecliauical imtatiou to account for its recession, tlio cause will c^enorally be found in debility of constitution, scrofula, syphilis, or the exanthemata. Eoth eyes are seldom attacked at one time, but botJi frequently suffer in succession. A zone of dilated sclerotic vessels encircles the corneal margin, gene- rally at the upper part; but always corresponding to the site of the iiiMammatory attack; and between the two there is no intervening clear space of white sclerotic, as in affections of the deeper parts of the eye. Small hair-like vessels are seen ramifying, in greater or less number, ontinuous with those constituting the outer zone, giving it the appear- auce of a thin smear of blood. Wlien the inflammatory change is inter- stitial, the haze of the corneal structure renders these vessels less obvious. Besides the sclerotic vascular crescent, a few of the larger venous trunks ia the conjunctiva are turgid—those in the line of the recti muscles most commonly. The characteristic symptoms are, besides those anato- mical changes just described—pain in the eye and in the orbit generally ; lachrymation and intolerance of light; loss of transparency, brilliancy, and polish in the cornea—a more or less extensive haze occupying its structure, and giving it the appearance of stained, ground, or roughened glass. The various results of the inflammatory process may then ensue— varying according to its intensity—viz., interstitial hyperplasy, producing thickening and opacity; formation of matter between the corneal layers— which puriform fluid may either become absorbed, or make its way eitlier exter- nally, leaving an excavated ulcer, or into the anterior chamber, producing hypopion; chronic ulceration, commenc- ing superficially ; or there may be a large ulcer, originating in a so-called pustule or phlyctenula; lastly, sloughing, either f the whole or of a part, may occur— eldom, however, in the case of simple eratitis alone, but only when this is part of an extensive and severe phthalmia. If a foreign body be left imbedded in the cornea, it is ery evident that suppuration and ulceration must ensue; in obedience the general law, whereby natural extrusion of foreign matter is effected all living textures. In the treatment, general depletion is injuiious; for the disease is ways due to some debilitating cause; and local abstraction of blood by eeches, although it may afford temporary relief, is of no real service, ounter-irritants, as by applying ethereal tincture of iodine, or blister- ng tissue, to the temples, are of the greatest importance ; but if care is ot exercised, the cervical glands are liable to become irritated. Paint- g the lids with the common tincture of iodine, making sure that none ets withm the eye, is often of signal service. Steaming the eyes, the arm eye-douche, and the belladonna lotion, with hyoscyamus internally, Ji alleviate the painful symptoms. Stimulating ointments, and lotions, a nitrate of silver solution more especially, are very injurious. 0 Fig. 250. Corneitis. Fig. 250. ur