9U FRACTURE OF TirE SCAPULA. simplest, most easily obtained, and not the least efficient, are either the pad, sling, and bandage of Dosault, or the figure of 8 bandage originally employed by Albucasis. Desault's mpthod is as follows :—A wedge- shaped pad, with the broad end of the wedge uppermost, is placed in the axilla, sufficiently large to occupy the cavity without stuffing it. Tiie pad is best made of horse-hair, covered with soft leather ; but any tem- porary substitute may be taken at the first dressing. By means of a shawl or large handkerchief, within which it is placed, the pad is securely lodged in the axilla; and, by tying the ends to the anterior and posterior aspects of a weU-padded handkerchief, which surrounds, collar-wise, tlie opposite shoulder, the acromion is kept outwards, and along with it the acromial portion of the clavicle. The drooping of the shoulder from tlie weight of the arm is prevented, by supporting the forearm and elbow by means of a sling ; the forearm crossing the chest, and the fingers pointing towards the opposite shoulder. To obtain further extension of the bone, a bandage or handlcerchief is applied round the chest—including the lower part of the arm on the injured side—and so firmly fastened that I the elbow shall be approximated to the chest; thus making the humerus a lever, which, acting on the pad as a fulcrum, forces the shoulder out- wards. By some this method is regarded as either galHng to the patient, or inefficient; and by them a more complicated apparatus calculated to fulfil the same indications—a starch bandage without the pad, hut applied so as to retain the arm in the position described, with a figure of 8 bandage applied round the shoulders, or padded sho ulder straps calculated to act by approximating the scapulae—is considered preferable, so as to effect and secure adjustment. It is well, in any case, to relax the stemo- mastoid by attention to the position of the neck; for sometimes this muscle elevates the sternal portion slightly. In cases where any decided difficulty is experienced in keeping the parts in position, the patient should be confined to bed, and maintain the recumbent posture, the shoul- ders resting on a broad and square firm pillow, with the head supported,, while the arm is held in a shng, and fixed to the chest. The appU-. cation of pressure over the site of fracture should never be resorted to. The integuments may be induced to slough ; and an injury, originally simple, may be rendered compound. In females, for obvious reasons, the treatment is to be conducted with especial care. Fracture of the Body of the Scapula. The body of the scapula may be broken across by direct violence, or even by muscular force alone. There is usually but Httle recognisable displacement or deformity; the muscles on the inner and outer surfaces of the bone, and the firm fibrous texture into which the muscles attached to the scapula are inserted, preventing this. Post-mortem investigation usually, however, shows that some over-lapping by displacement of the. lower fragment has taken place, by which it passes beneath the iippei part of the bone, to the extent of from a quarter to half an inch ; in other cases the lower fragment is drawn outwards, the upper backwards and upwards, so that posteriorly they are separated from each otlier Hke th limbs of a pair of compasses. The part is pained, swoln, and limil' '