TREATMENT OF TETANUS. 515 was supposed, naturally enough, that such complete rest given to the previously racked spinal system, even though of short duration, might he iollowed by the best curative effect; that on resumption of nervous I'unction, the tetanic symptoms would be found to remain partly or even iltogether in abeyance ; and that either an immediate exemption from the symptoms, or palliation and a partial approach to cure, might thus be obtained. The proposed mode of application to the human subject was to insert a small quantity of the poison into a puncture of the hand ir arm ; regulating its introduction into the system, and its effects there, iy tightening or relaxing a ligature on the cardiac aspect of the wound. Experiments on the lower animals, however, have resulted only in dis- api)ointment; and the application of this remedy to man is now scarcely warrantable. From what is now known of the eff'ects produced by the Calabar bean {P]iysostigma), the use of its tincture seems to hold out a prospect of relief, by advantageously obtaining the same depressing influence upon the spinal ganglionic centres as has been attempted to be effected by the Avourali, or as follows the use of conium when given in almost poisonous doses. In such circumstances doses of ten minims may be given every hour or two hours; carefully, however, watching its eff'ect, and diminishing or stopping the dose if the degree of depression of the circiUation should become too great. The breathing of chloroform relaxes spasm and annuls sufiering, for a time. And the use of this wondrous agent has certainly contributed, if not to the cure of tetanus, at least greatly to alleviation of its symptoms. Counter-irritation over the spine, with the endermic use of sedatives, may do good. Morphia may be sprinkled on the raw surface—or in- jected beneath the skin—^or aconite, or belladonna ; and for the same reasons as stated in the case of hydrophobia, probably aconite may be the most hopeful of the three. Or cold may be applied continuously to the spine, especially to its upper part; its effect being narrowly watched, lest it prove excessive; stimuli and support of the general system being at the same time given, as in the use of tobacco. Mercury, pushed to ptyalism, has seemed to eff'ect cures in hot cli- mates ; in this country it has proved less successful. Lately, the sub- lutrate of mercury, in doses of ten grains, has been strongly recommended. Its effects are purgative, emetic, and diaphoretic ; and the spasms are said to relax greatly, when these results have been obtained. Tliroughout the whole period of attempted cure, the utmost quiet and seclusion should be observed; all noise, light, and prying visitors ^eing excluded. Nourishment should be given, to as full an extent as circumstances place in our power ; by the mouth, if possible; by the rectum; and by the skin. By nutritive eneraata and baths, life may be prolonged for some considerable time after the power of swallowing gone; and—as bearing upon this point—it is to be remembered, that the greater number of patients usually die of exhaustion. On the whole, I should be inclined to arrange as an eclectic consti- TOtional treatment:—absolute quiet and seclusion; purgatives, to clear oroughly the prirase via?, afterwards stimulant cuonuita as required ;