854 WOUNDS OF THE THROAT, and "by tlie density of tlic parts which liave to he divided ere the sv.'eep of the sharp edge can reacli them. Sometimes even the pliarjTix or oesophagus may be severed, and the vesseLs escape, their sheath being laid bare, and even the internal jugular vein cut through, while the artery is merely notched in its outer tunic. When, however, the deed is attempted with a truer skiU and deliberation, not by a horizontal gash, but by a puncture in the direction of the vessels, the escape of these is likely to prove rather the exception than the rule, A more limited transverse wound, leaving the carotid and jugular intact, may still cause death by hemorrhage, directly, and within a brief period ; by implication of the lingual, facial, or possibly of the thyroid vessels—arteries and veins. Tlie position occupied by these last-mentioned vessels, close to the side of the larynx, generally saves them from injury, and the former are only likely to suffer when the incision is made above the hyoid bone. And again, a comparatively slight bleeding may prove fatal, more remotely; the blood making its entrance into the larynx during respiration, and accimiulating within the air-passage, so as to induce asphyxia; such accumulation being permitted by the insensibility of the patient, or by his inability, through faintness, to make the requisite efforts for expectoration. The second danger is by inflammatory changes at the wounded part; occluding the laryngeal aperture or canal, or otherwise interfering -with respiration. And this is all the more Ukely to occur, if the wound im- plicating the larynx have been brought together immediately after the infliction of the injury. The mucous membrane, as well as the rest of the wound, becomes the seat of an acute inflammatory process ; and the consequent swelling may be such as to cause rapid and great occlusion. At the same time, mucous secretion is both increased in quantity and vitiated in quality—becoming more viscid and tenacious. This, accumu- lating in the already narrowed canal, renders suffocative hazard aU the more imminent. And the risk is further contributed to, by the dimi- nished power of expectoration which a patient so situated necessarily possesses. A third danger, liable to occur along with, and to aggravate that which has just been considered, is—that, during the movements of the . part—voluntary and involuntary—one portion of the wound is not unlikely to overlap the other, and thus, by suddenly producing a mecha- nical obstruction to the passage of air, at once to bring Hfe into the greatest peril. A fourth danger is by the occurrence of inflammatory change in the trachea and lungs ; the inflammatory process extending downwards from the wound, or the unwonted direct access of cold air proving an exciting cause of original affection. Bronchitis, indeed, more or less severe, is almost an invariable consequence of such injuries. A fifth danger arises from inanition, in those cases in which the gullet has sufl'ered; and when, consequently, it is not easy to niaiiit^mi a due supply of nourishment. Hectic, also, may ensue, in the case of an extensive, profusely suppurating, and slowly-healing wound; more especially if much blood have been lost at the time of the infliction ' the injury. And lastly, the mental condition is, in all cases, hkoly to exert i