5 THE SUPPURATIVE STAGE. Thus is constituted the second or plastic stage, sometimes termed Active Congestion; the feeding arterial trunks dilated, but the circula- tion slow ixL the part; its vessels overdistended, and without tone; its blood undergoing change, the fibrin especially being increased; ex- travascular fibrinous product accumulating more or less copiously; func- tion and nutrition perverted. We are leaving the confines of health,^ and have, indeed, ah-eady made some progress into the territory of disease. This process may stop and recede after the removal of its simple exciting cause; or it may be sustained for some time, as in the healing of wounds and the closing of ulcers ; or it may advance to III. Tlie Third or Suppurative Stage, sometimes termed True In- flammation.—^The change which, in the preceding stage, had begun in the circulation is now completed. The overdistension of the capillaries is established; and the coats of the vessels are spongy, softened, and impaired in cohesion, bemg themselves the subjects of structural change. The languor of circulation approaches stagnation, and at some points this has actually occurred; while every part of the distended capillaries is occupied by crowded corpuscles, coloured and colourless. Fibrinous serum collects extravascularly in profusion. The attenuated and softened capil- laries give way in their coats here and there ; and from the lesion blood is extravasated in mass. Suppuration is in progress ; according to some by intrinsic change in the product which they believe to be transuded— molecules and granules forming out of what was at first structureless, and these again grouping together and becoming surrounded by a mem- brane, so as to form cells; according to others, and more probably, by the cells of the primary texture acting formatively, and themselves pro- ducing {cellula e celluld) the solid or organized part of the new formation. The parenchyma, infiltrated with serum, fibrin, pus, and blood, softens, and is broken up ; and the disintegrated texture becomes mixed with the escaped contents of the vessels. The formative power, while excited, aborts—reaching no higher than the pus formation; and the opposite condition, or disintegration, has become paramount. Disorder of func- tion is complete; secretion, for example, being in the first place arrested, and, when restored, become more vitiated than before. In the circulation of the part itself, all is sluggishness and stagna- tion ; but that of the parts around is unusually active. The arterial trunks in the vicinity continue to play with increased energy ; blood continues to be sent, but cannot now be transmitted in its direct course : in the inflamed part it meets an obstruction, and, being sent round another way, throws a stress on the collateral vessels; these, however, retain vigour sufficient for the augmented labour, and pass the current briskly round. While the nutritive tumult is thus busy—much new raw material coming, and much of the old softening and crumbling away—the removal of the latter is comparatively obstructed ; absorption is in abeyance—the lymphatics and minute veins doing little in that way. On the disease yielding, however, absorption again comes into play; and the part is often restored nearly, or altogether, to its former state. During inflam-