824 CERUMEN WITHIN THE MEATUS. kill the animals; and they may be subsequently removed by forceps, curette, or a stream of water. Accumulation of Inspissated Cerumen within the Meatus. Deafness is very frequently due to this cause; or, perhaps, obstruc- tion to the vibrations of sound is rendered still more effectual, by com- mixture of wool, cotton, or other foreign body, with the cerumen ; the patient having been in the habit of stopping his ears, and forgetting from time to time to remove what he had previously introduced. The condi- tion can hardly be called one of disease ; and in many persons it seems^ from its recurrence, to be almost a normal state of matters. The accumu- lation produces, however, in time very material changes in the ear ; dilat- ing the meatus, and causing absorption of its bony walls, but never—a curious fact—modifying the nutrition of the membrana tympani. The deafness produced is very complete, and is the best marked symptom of the morbid state; often it comes on suddenly, especially after diving in deep water ; it may be increased or diminished on turning the head to one side or the other, and is often accompanied with loud detonation, as if a gun had gone off close to the head. The presence of obstruction will be at once declared by use of the speculum ; and often that is not necessary; tension and straightening of the tube, by pulling the lobe, before a clear light, being sufiicient. Eemedy consists in removing the offending mass; and this is best effected by washing out the meatus with hot water. Cold should on no account be employed, as even tepid water sometimes produces unpleasant giddiness, and an approach to syn- cope. An india-rubber bag and nozzle will frequently prove sufficient for the purpose; but when the cerumen is hard, and forms a dense plug, either the common brass syringe, or a Higginson's barrel syringe, with a small nozzle adapted, will be foimd necessary to effect its dislodg- ment. The brass syringe is what is commonly employed. In selecting ; such an instrument, one with a smooth action, capable of containing : from four to six ounces and upwards, and of considerable power, should I be preferred. Tlie injection should be persevered in, either at one or f at repeated sittings, until the membrana tympani is distinctly seen, on i the use of the speculum. When the cerumen is unusually hard and I tenacious, it may be loosened, previously to syringing, by the careful use of a curette, or by moistening it with bland oil for a day or two. Deficiency of cerumivous secretion is an occasional symptom of in- flammatory affections of the tympanum, and deeper-seated parts of the organ of hearing, but is never in itself a cause of deafness. The meatus is found dry and empty, and the membrana tympani is seen clear : and glistening. Stimulants are of use in restoring the secretion—as the ' essential oils, more or less diluted ; and their action may be further assisted by stimulant friction around the amicle. Exhaustion of the cavity is said also to have a beneficial effect; by means of a syringe, fitted with a soft nozzle which completely occludes the meatus. Until j the normal secretion returns, glycerine applied by means of a hair pencil ■will be found a valuable substitute.* * Waklcy, Lancet, No. 1346, i>. 631.