ABSCESS OF THE ANTRUM. 754 fluid will not escape by it; but will be retained by atmospheric pressure —as in the case of the narrow-necked bottle, which when filled witli water is suspended in an inverted position for barometric purposes. It is better to make an opening through the most dependent part of the attenuated parietes, above the first molars. The membrane of the cheek is incised there ; and, by means of the same instrument—a strong hi toury—the parietes of the cavity may also be perforated in the greal( number of cases. If the bone, however, prove thick and resistin" a poiiited lever, as used for the extraction of decayed teeth, may be em- ployed. Should the bone resist the enlargement of this aperture, the blade of the cutting pliers, or a small trephine, may be employed. Aji aperture having been made, in one way or other, of dimensions to admi' the point of the finger, through tins the contents readily drain awa\ Thus, also, re-accumulation is effectually prevented; and, by pressuj from without, return to the normal state by contraction is fevoured. It is sometimes advisable to apply tincture of iodine by means of a haii' pencil to the membrane lining the cavity, so as to correct its ten- dency to hyper-secretion. Abscess of the Antrum. The lining membrane may undergo the inflammatory process, mth or without the apphcation of external violence; and suppuration ma} ensue. The affection may be either chronic or acute. In the formei event, the case will very much resemble the cystic enlargement jusi detailed. This, however, is of rare occurrence, and is usually uncon- nected with external injury. Acute abscess generally results from violence applied, or from irrita tion communicated by decayed teeth or other affections of the gums The symptoms are severe. With a considerable amount of constitu tional disturbance, there are deep-seated and great pain, tension an( throbbing, and swelling of the suj)erimposed soft parts. Usually partia evacuation takes place, spontaneous! by the side of a tooth or through tb naso-antral aperture; with rehef fro the more prominent symptoms. Su imperfect evacuation and rehef, how ever, are not enough; the operation above the bicuspid teeth, as for empty ing the indolent fluid collection, mus be had recourse to. But, of course, t jM the first instance, attempts are made t forego the necessity of all operative ir terference, by timeously arresting tb inflammatory process, if possible, ei matter has at all formed. Wlion pun ^'s- lent accumulation has taken place, tb artificial opening cannot be too soon estabhshed. For from the turgi state of the membrane, it is very obvious that no effectual relief can 11 Fig. 271. Enlargement of the antrum, by accumulation of fluid within.