TREPHINING. G31 undue bleeding takes place iVoni the scalp ; and, in regard to this point, it is to be remembered that vessels which do not bleed during the state of depression, may part with their contents freely on the establishment of reaction. Above the water-dressing it is well to place a few turns of a bandage, lightly applied, so as to afford support; and this is raoi'e especially necessary when deficiency of the cranium happens to be con- siderable. The wound, in other respects, is treated in the ordinary way; union taking place by the second intention. Of course, rest is absolute, severity of regimen is extreme, and antiphlogistics are held in readiness, for some considerable time after the operation. It has been proposed to replace the removed circle of bone, after completion of our object, in the hope of its becoming reunited j but such hope has been proved vain, as niight have been expected. "When the wound has healed, the dura mater is found to have be- come incorporated with the soft parts exteriorly; and the breach in the cranium is not filled up by bone, but by dense membranous formation. A meagre film of new bone may be found at the mere margin of the aperture. And this, in time, extends centripetally; apparently by the slow secretive action of the parent bone alone, the pericranium, dura mater, and other soft parts, seeming to be incapable of ossific action. At the margin of the aperture the new bone may ultimately be of similar thickness with the cranium ; but as it extends, it shelves rapidly; be- coming very thin as it approaches the centre. Many years are required, ere osseous reparation is complete. And in consequence, it is expedient for a long time to guard the imperfect part from external injury ; a piece of leather or metal being worn over the cicatrix. At one time, trephining was frequently performed; and on grounds much too sHght. From the preceding remarks, the following brief de- ductions may be drawn, as to its present use. It is had recourse to, 1. On account of punctured fracture, as soon as possible; whether head symptoms exist or not; the object being to remove splintered fragments of the inner table. 2. On account of depressed fracture, accompanied with urgent symptoms of compression; when elevation of the depressed portion cannot otherwise be effected. 3. On account of dura-matral abscess, when local and constitutional symptoms sufiiciently concur in pointing out the existence and site of this morbid condition; the object being to effect external evacuation of the pus. 4. On account of urgent compression caused by extravasated blood; only when the circumstances are such as to indicate the seat of extravasation, and when that happens to be accessible. Occasionally the surgeon has been called upon to trephine, in cases of epilepsy, in which the disease seemed to be connected—in the rela- tion of effect and cause—with a depression of the cranium, the result of former injury; or in which circumstances seemed to point with much plainness to a certain spot of the cranium—perhaps the seat of internal enlargement, of either a globose or spiculated character. The operation, ^nder such circumstances, is of doubtful expediency j but may be per- formed, at the suspected spot, in obedience to the urgent entreaty of the patient or his friends.