300 NECItOSIS. not be completed leaviug the other much imperfect; that the portion of old bone shall not be loosened, and cast away as a useless thing, until an efficient substitute has been prepared to occupy its place and function. During the process of sepai'ation, by ulceration, there is necessarily a constant, and often a profuse secretion of pus, Tliis is discharged ex- ternally, through apertures in the soft parts already existing; or it burrows and accumulates at new points, where free and dependent incision soon comes to bo demanded. Tlie discharge is usually thick, and yellow ; laudable in appearance; charged with more or less of tlie ulcerated debris ; and invariably possessed of an oppressive and peculiar fcetor—a sickening heavy odour, which, when once perceived, will ever after be readily recognized—a sure sign of bone disease. When analysed, the discharge is found to contain an unusually large proportion of earthy matter; doubtless the results of the vital changes by Avhich the formerly dense hard osseous tissue is transformed into granulation material and pus cells. Sometimes a pulsating movement is observable in the part, during the progress of separation ; owing, probably, to the increased vascular function so busy in the process. 4. Separation of the dead portion is completed. The cell transfor- mation, just described, has encompassed it on all sides and beneath. It is now loose ; unless where hemmed in by exuberant formation of new osseous matter above and around, as is not unfrequently the case— a redundancy of reparative effort by no means to be complained of, being obviously by much the safer side on which Nature maj'' err. The sequestrum is now to all intents and purposes a foreign substance ; detached from the living ; of no further use, and no longer recognized as a part of the living economy; on the contrary, a noxious body whose presence is resented by continual suppuration and excitement in the living parts, and which cannot be too soon cast away. Sometimes the death and separation are not continuous, in mass ; but in small successive portions, many or most of which may be so minute as to escape observation. A superficial portion of bone, of con- siderable extent, is denuded by a suppurative process; but, instead of a like-sized exfoliation separating in the usual way, it gradually becomes covered in by granulation. It seems to have been absorbed. But, in truth, while some portion of it may have come away in small thin flakes, or in still more minute particles, by a so-called process of Insensible Exfoliation," the greater part has retained its vitality, and either granu- lated by change in the osseous elements on its sm'face, or become again adherent to the periosteum by which it was originally covered. 5. Tlie dead portion is extruded. As in the threatened lodgment of any other foreign substance, suppuration is the main agent here. By pus •a loose sequestrum is, as it were, floated to the surface, and there exi)osed. And if surgery be either slothful, or altogether in abeyance, Nature may even complete the task of final discharge ; though slowly and painfully, and with much exhaustion to the general frame. But another agent is also at work. By the ancients it was supposed, tliat the dead portion was simply pushed oK by granulation fi'om beneath ; ere yet it was de- tached fi'om its continuity with the living texture. Such we have seen