GANGE^NA SENILIS. Ul constitutional or local form ; and the issue was fatal. In this country, a somewhat similar malady has been traced to the use of unsound wheat. 12. Atmospheric influence acts favourably, or otherwise, on the system; more especially of the invalid. When a deleterious impression has resulted, no uncommoii indication of this is the appearance of slough- ing in a previously healthy wound or sore. To such a cause, for example, the invasion of hospital gangrene is perhaps most frequently attributable. 13. Arterial degeneration.—In advanced years, the whole arterial system, but more especially its ramiiications in the lower extremities, are liable to degenerate ; by the formation of calcareous matter between the coatc, to a greater or less extent; sometimes converting them into com- pletely rigid, and as if altogether calcareous tubes. This, of itself, may exist so generally, and in so advanced a form, as ultimately to render efficient circulation through such altered conduits impracticable ; and, circulation gradually ceasing, so does life. Death of the part ensues; a gradual and painless process. Or, without disease in the vessel itself, enibolism, or plugging of the arterial channel by a clot or excrescence which lias formed elsewhere, in the heart or larger arteries, takes place. The clot or excrescence is detached by the force of the current of blood, and, carried onwards, passes along the vascular channels till it reaches a vessel of such diminished size as to bar its farther progress. Or the obstruction of an artery may occur in still another way :—coagulation of the fibrin of the circulating blood commences upon the diseased surface of the inner coat of some part of an artery, to which further addition is gradually made till the vessel becomes obstructed more or less completely to the next collateral branch above and below. And slow though such processes be, they suffice to cause more or less extensive gangrene, according to the extent of arterial communication which has become obstructed, and the degree of dilatabilty in the collateral circulation—fitting it for maintain- ing an efficient and nutritive supply in the extremity. This obstruction of the arterial circulation has been attributed by some to the inflammatory process in the coats of the vessels producing copious fibrinous product, which by its coagulation in the interior of the vessel obhterates its channel. By Dupuytren it was imagined that the greater number of cases were thus to be accounted for. But, believing firmly in the tliree first-mentioned causes of arterial obstruction, and with° out denying the occurrence of this last pathological process, or that it does sometimes so cause mortification in the aged, it seems more reasonable to believe, that the painful and creeping inflammatory form of this disease IS attributable not so much to the occurrence of arterial obstruction as to the vital weakness of the part, and its complete invasion by the inflam- matory process. Thus we find the old man pecuHarly exposed to mortification, particu- My m the parts naturaUy most weak—the feet and toes. To such morti- fication, usually gradual, chronic, and dry, the term Qangrcena senilis IS commonly applied. This disease, however, is not to be considered as invariably occurring in one way, and consequently in all cases amen- able to one and the same mode of treatment; otherwise, much practical evil must result. Senile gangrene varies in its nature. It is not necessarily attended