98-i EEMOVAL OF THE BREAST. certainly interdicted. If, however, the tumour bo distinctly limited, of ^ unusually firm consistence, and of slow progress, occuiTing in an other- wise apparently healthy patient beyond mid-age, there is good ground for urging the operation, as the only possible means of preventing the otherwise certainly fatal progress already described. Extirpation of the Mamma. The patient having been placed recumbent, and chloroform adminis- tered, the arm on the affected side is raised and held by an assistant, so as to stretch the pectoralis major, and facilitate incision and dissection. Two curved incisions are then made in the axis of the pectoral muscle, including the nipple and involved skin ; and both extremities of the elHp- tical portion of the integument, thus mapped out, should extend beyond the confines of the gland. The size of this space necessarily varies, accord- ing to the extent to which the integument seems to be involved, and according to the natural laxity of the parts. It is a fault to take away an undue amount of soft textures, so that difficulty is experienced in effecting and maintaining apposition of the wound ; but it is a worse error to leave tainted parts, whereby reproduction of the disease cannot fail speedily to ensue. In some rare cases, peculiar circumstances may render an incision in the opposite direction better suited for the removal of the tumour and diseased integument, or more satisfactory in the appo- sition of the line of wound. It is well to make the lower incision first; otherwise its course and position are apt to be uncertain, Tinder the flow of blood. First on the axillary, and then on the pectoral aspect, the knife is carried through the subcutaneous fat, between the skin and the surface of the gland; the cutaneous textures being dissected back in the form of flaps, till the whole of the anterior surface of the gland is completely disclosed. This must be done carefully, especially in the neighbourhood of the diseased part—and in clearing the thin mar- gins of the gland over the pectoral muscle—else some portion of its structure is apt to elude the knife, and be left behind to constitute a nidus for reproduction of the disease. Any vessels which spring during this part of the operation should be compressed by the fingers of assistants; unless when loss of blood would be attended by risk ; and then they may be tied as divided. Generally it is recommended to proceed with the removal of the exposed gland from the axilla down- wards ; thus dividing the principal vessels and nerves at once, and so rendering the subsequent steps of the operation comparatively bloodless and free from pain ; but while there can be no objection to this in most cases, yet when any glandular enlargement exists, it may be well to leave the axillary connection to the last, so as more readily to effect removal of the adjacent glands along with the tumour. The diseased mass having been cut out, is carefully examined on every aspect by both sight and touch ; and, if need be, the knife is re-employed where thorough removal is not assuredly apparent. The vessels having been secured by ligature, the wound is brought together by wire sutures ; and pads of Hnt having been laid along the margins of the incision, so as to support the flaps of integument in steady contact with the subjacent parts, they are retained