VASCULAR TUMOUKS OF BONE. 330 Odeoinelanosis. This disease, too, is usually secondary, and not recognised by any external signs from the other forms of medullary cancer, until examined after death of the patient, or removal of tlie tumour. The melanotic matter is either infiltrated or in distinct patches. Sometimes it is sepa- rate and distinct ; more frequently, as in soft parts, associated with medullary formation. There is no remedy but by amputation ; and the cases are few in which that operation will be deemed expedient. Vascular Tumours of Bone. Bone may be variously affected by a morbid condition of the blood and blood-vessels. 1. Osteoaneurism.—A kind of aneurism, it is alleged, may form in the cancellous texture; an artery dilating, giving way, or otherwise communicating with a sac, in which blood accumulates so as to distend the laminated portion into the form of a tumour of greater or less magnitude. The sac is composed of thin osseous and periosteal walls, with osseous plates projecting inwards at parts of their surfaces, presenting a honey-combed appearance on the interior. This disease may follow upon an external injury, which may be supposed to have ruptured the arterial coats; or it may form spontaneously, by arterial degeneration. It is said to have occurred in the head of the tibia, the condyles of the femur, the scapula, and the clavicle. A cure has been effected where the head of the tibia was affected, by tying the femoral artery; at the same time applying uniform sustained compression of the tumour. Such a result must be regarded as exceptional; and in most cases removal of the whole of the affected bone by amputa- tion will be expedient; if the part be so situated as to admit of this operation. For were the disease left to itself, the open condition would, sooner or later, be attained; and death by hemorrhage ensue. A remarkable example of this disease occurred to Mr. Liston, and is related in his Elements of Surgery, p. 170. 2. Erectile tissue may become developed in the cancellous texture, expanding the laminated portion of the bone, which comes to form, as it were, its outer case. The symptoms are necessarily obscure. Fortu- nately, the occurrence is rare. Deligation is plainly inapplicable. Amputation must be had recourse to. 3. Either of the preceding varieties may be conjoined with medul- lary formation. In such circumstances, early and free removal by the knife is plainly and urgently indicated ; but with an unfavourable prognosis, as to the probability of return. It was in a case of this kind that Mr. Syme first excised the scapula. In all these different forms of the disease, the affection is a painful one from the commencement. In the early stages of the case the diag- nosis IS rendered difficult, as the bone at the part affected is only slightly enlarged. In the more advanced stage, when a considerable thinning 01 the osseous walls has occurred, the disease is characterised by the unequal resistance afforded by difforont parts of the tumour, by a sense