BUBO, 1158 found to co-exist, in an equally or even more developed state. Tlie enlargement, unlike the previous forms, affects all the glands in the neighbouring lymphatic chains. These are moderately enlarged, seldom exceeding hazel-nuts in size, and are like the base of the sore ; that gland which is nearest the site of the cliancre being usually slightly larger than the others. It is so rare for the bubo of an indurated chancre to suppu- rate, that it may, in many cases, almost be taken for granted that if a siippurating bubo has existed, it was not accompanied by an indurated sore. This must not, however, be accepted as an invariable rule ; for from the co-existence of a soft chancre, or from the indurated chancre having been irritated, the swelling in the groin may have terminated in the formation of an abscess. The indurated enlargement of the glands is not only indolent, but very persistent, existing for a very long period, and hence forming one of the best and truest sources of information, in expis- cating the patient's antecedents, with reference to the question of the pre- existence of sypliilis. A further glandular involvement is also observable, affecting, in cases of syphilis, more or less markedly, all the lymphatics in the body. It in all respects closely resembles that which affects the lymphatic chains lying in close proximity to the indurated sore. The easiest position in which to seek for this indurated concatenate enlargement is along the anterior margin of the trapezius muscle. Grasping the nape of the neck in the hand, and passing the fingers downwards, the enlargement, if it exist, can be readily iuvestigated without exciting the suspicions of the patients or their friends. This distant glandular complication usually disappears sooner than that affecting the chains of glands in close proxi- mity to the site of the originating sore. The enlargement of the lymphatics in syphilis, both proximate to the chancre and at a distance, must, along with the indui'ation of the base of the sore, be considered as occupying the position of a secondary, or con- stitutional affection—the sore itself being the primary affection, or source by which the virus gained an entrance to the system. 4. The Scrofulous Glandular Enlargement may occur from simple adenitis, or may complicate the bubo symptomatic of syphilis. One gland is usually prominently affected, remaining persistent in spite of treatment, and usually terminating in tardy and indolent sup- puration. In such cases, the progress of the affection is quite that of the common scrofulous disease of the glands, which is so often met with ia the neck of strumous children. In their early stages, the first two forms of bubo cannot usually be distinguished from each other. In treatment, however, both require the same measures—repose in the recumbent posture, the use of warm acetate of lead and opium fomentation, and either destruction of the soft chancre with a powerful caustic, or, should the patient object to this, the use of simple soothing measures to the sore till the glandular irritation is subdued. In the case of an acute bubo accompanying gonorrhoea, the measures already recommended for allaying the urethral pain and irritation should be sedulously adopted; and if the use of an injection is persevered in, it sliould be of an opiate and soothing kind. Wlien either the virulent or simple bubo begins to suppurate,