TONSILLITIS. 802 Tomillitis ur Cynanche TvimUlaris. This term denotes an inflamniatoiy alfoctiou of the fauces, cliicll)' resident in and around the tonsils, all'octing one or botli sides; some times extending up the Eustachian tube and implicating the middle ear : ordinarily the result of cold due to atmosplieric exposure, occurring mosi frequently in spring and autumn, particularly the former, and in tht young and adolescent rather than in the adult or elderly. Sometimes ii has a local cause for its origin, as the process of dentition in the inferioi posterior molars, the swallowing of very hot or cold bodies, injury inliicteij by the accidental swallowing of foreign bodies or caustics ; also long con- tinued crymg, singing, public speaking, or playing on Avind instruments may all act as causes of this affection. It is characterized by swelling redness, heat, and dryness, with pain of the part, impeded and paiufu deglutition, inability to separate the jaws, difficult articulation, marko( alteration of the voice, and the ordinary constitutional accompaniment.^ according to the intensity and advancement of the process. Com menciug in inflammatory symptoms, very much alike, the results var} In some cases, an erythematous blush, with more or less SAvelling, con tinues for a time, and. then subsides j or, involving the substance of th gland, it terminates in suppuration; or a tardy resolution occurs or the affection may prove formidable by assuming the truly erj sipelatous type, and spreading doAvnwards into the ah' passages. I others, so-called jDustules or follicular abscesses appear, and terminal in the formation of yellowish ulcerated surfaces ; in others, from tl very first, a white milky pellicle coats the surface, a sure indicatio of the presence of that deadly malady Diphtheria. In the first, coL with more or less stomacliic or hepatic derangement, constitutes all tl cause; in the second, a rheumatic or gouty habit of body is general found to co-exist; while in the third, a mephitic condition due to £ insalubrious season, site, or drainage, is generally combined with an e: feebled constitution, predisposing and exciting to the ty^jhoid symptor and results which tend to occur, and which, rather than the local di.'^ea.-^ determine the fatal issue. In these last mentioned cases, w^hen reco^•L■ occurs, jiaralytic affections often make their appearance during convak cence, implicating singly, in combination, or in succession, the mu.^cl of the soft palate, fauces, and extremities, as also the adaptive apparat of the eyeball, and, according to some, even affecting the heart. Treatment of cynanche is by ordhiary antiphlogistics, local ai general; purgatives being particularly efiicacious. Scarification of t part is sometimes advisable, with the view of abstracting blood, CC' trolling swelling, and rendering suppuration less likely to supervei Leeching and blistering are rarely required; usually, a mustard poult: to the throat, folloAved by a large warm and soft cataplasm, or wat dressing, and hot water as a gargle, with Mindererus' internally, is ■ the treatment necessary. In gouty and rheumatic cases, large doses guaiac—half a drachm of the powder, thrice daily—have a resolute and almost specific infiuence ; Dover's powder, too, is often useful n similar Avay ; relieving ixiin, and soothing to sleep. In the simple the application of niti-ate of silver only aggravates the symptoms,