073 CONJUNCTIVITIS. Pig. 247. Si)n2)le or Catarrhal Con/janctivitis, The eyo becomes tlie seat of pain, heat, and lachryniation; there is intolerance of light, and consequent closure of the eyelids—more or less spasmodic; frequently there is a sensation as if sand or other foreign matter Avere lodged in the part. On separating the eyelids, the mem- brane is seen to present an appearance of unusual vascularity ; not from formation of new vessels, but from enlargement of those already there. It is important to remember that these vessels have a peculiar character, whereby affection of this membrane may be distinguished from the affec- tions of more deeply seated parts. The vessels are of considerable size, they seem to advance from the peri- phery of the globe, where the membrane is reflected from off the palpebrae, are tortuous in their course, freely inosculate ivith each other, and terminate gradually t the margin of the cornea ; they are ^-Q observed to follow the movements f the membrane ; sometimes they are '"tinct and separate, because not very umerous ; sometimes they are number- ess, constituting one mass of angry red ; d the redness is usually of a bright cadet hue, most intense on the inside f the Hds at the reflection of the conjunc- iva upon the globe. Whereas, in scle- otitis, the vessels are small, straight, not affected by the movements of e eyeball, appear first near the margin of the cornea, become paler wards the periphery of the globe, do not inosculate, plainly occupy deeper plane, and cause a redness of a pink or purplish hue (Fig. 246). In what is strictly termed Simple or Catarrhal Conjunctivitis, the nge of the inflammatory process does not reach higher than that cha- cterised by active congestion, attended with sero-fibrinous accumulation the subconjunctival tissue, swelling of the lids, and profuse mucous d lachrymal secretion. Still, in characteristic specimens of the affec- on, the existence of numerous small red blotches of extravasation may • observed; these blotches varying in size from a pin head up to a ntinuous patch, covering, it may be, a quarter or even the whole of e white of the eye—produced by the giving way of one or more dis- nded vessels. In some cases, usually called catarrho-rheumatic, the lerotic is involved at the same time ; and then the tortuous conjunc- al vessels are combined with, and tend to obscure, the pink zone rrounding the cornea. In these cases, there is more pain, in the eye 1 around the orbit, more intolerance of light, and a more copious liTymation. The system may be sympathetically involved; but, in general, its turbance is neither prominent nor severe, and is confined to disorder the stomach and bowels. T'ig. 247. E.xternal ophthalmia ; catarrhal conjunctivitis. 2 X