1290 TREATMENT OF POPLITEAL ANEUllISM. certainty of the knife and ligature, to the apparent uncertainty and delay of the compressor. But a largo number of cases are assuredly capable of cure by pressure properly applied ; without risk, witli but little pain or inconvenience, and without any wearisome amount of privation or con- finement. The skin, which is to bear the pressure of the instrument, is protected by a layer of thick soap-plaster ; and that, again, may bo covered by leather. More than one compressor is usedj so that the pressure is made at different parts, at different times; and the burden of it is not all thrown on one point, but subdivided, and thus rendered more tolerable. Instead of the clamp, compress, and complicated apparatus, consisting of a combination of screws and caoutchouc straps, which were employed about ten years ago, leaden weights are now frequently used. These resemble a conical bullet in shape, each weighing on an average from five to ten lbs.; and when confined in a stout leather case or socket attached to and over the thigh, they can have their dead weight so directed as to control the circulation through the femoral artery with more comfort to the patient than in any other manner. Using several such weights, along the course of the vessel in the thigh—they may be applied alternately; or the same instrument may be shifted in its socket with a like effect. Best of all, however—most efficient, most exact, and most tolerable—is " animal pressure," applied by the steady and inteUi- gent fingers of assistants, in suitable relays. It is never to be forgotten, that all severity of pressure is unnecessary; and that it is not our object completely to arrest the arterial flow at the compressed point. And it is also important to remember, that should this mode of treatment fail, it by no means interferes with subsequent performance of the ordinary operation; but, on the contrary, the constitutional treatment suitable for pressure renders the success of subsequent deligation all the more pro- bable. The only fear may be that the collateral circulation, if the com- pression fails after having been long continued, may have become so freely established as to render the subsequent application of the hgature insufficient. More recently, direct compression of the popliteal tumour by flexion of the knee has been advocated by Mr. Hart and others. This may be em- ployed either singly or in combination with compression of the femoral. The beneficial effect of this method of direct compression, as contrasted with the measures resorted to for a like purpose by the older surgeons, seems to be referrible—1st, To the natural textures being the medium by which the compression is exerted; 2d, That the bending of the knee not only compresses the aneurism, but alters the course of the popliteal artery by increasing its curve, and thus proportionately diminishes the force with which the blood passes through it into the aneurismal sac. In eff'ecting compression by flexion, a worsted stocking should be drawn upon the limb, a roller bandage having been first applied uniformly fi'om the toes up to the knee. To the sole of the stocking, straps or bandages are attached, by which the heel can be gradually approximated to the buttock, by means of buckles upon a waist-belt firmly fixed round the loins. The management of this simple apparatus is entrusted to the patient, who is confined to bed, and directed to increase or diminish the traction on the heel according to his sensations. He should be fed on