CARIES. 290 extremity of a long bone, may Le attacked ; or a thin external portion alone ]nay suifer. A tliin, fetid, purulent discharge, ollen bloody, always acrid, usually more or less mixed with ulcerative debris, and often con- taining small detached sequestra, exudes in considerable quantity. The corresponding soft parts are swoln and broken up by suppuration; and one or more apertures exist in the integument, presenting the characters sometimes of the weak, sometimes of the scrofulous, sometimes of the irritable, sometimes of the inflamed ulcer. A probe, passed through these apertures, reaches the bone, and is found to sink into it; readily, with the application of little or no pressure, if the surface be uncovered by soft parts ; but not without pressure, if investing granulations exist, as frequently is the case. In using the probe, this must be borne in mind ; otherwise fallacy of diagnosis is not unlikely to be incurred. Sometimes the probe may be freely used, and little pain ensue ; but more frequently even its lightest movement causes much suffering, and bleeding of a dark oozy kind; both pain and bleeding being due to the soft parts of the medullary structure, rather than to the bone. Usually there is smart pain in the part, even independently of external interference. As already stated, the diseased portion may be conveniently considered as consisting—usually, though not invariably—of three parts. Suppose a cancellated bone, such as the os calcis or astragalus, affected ; the ulcerous surface is usually central; and with it the sinus, opening upon the sur- face, communicates through an aperture in the thin laminated crust of the bone. If a section of the bone is made so as to expose the affected part, the section displays in the centre a soft spongy substance of a dark purple, maroon, or rosy tint. This resembles granulations in structure, and is copiously supplied with blood-vessels. On washing with water, and carefully picking out the soft granulation-tissue with forceps, a deli- cate framework of fine needle-like osseous spicula, of a translucent or opaline colour, becomes apparent. To it the granulations are not ad- herent. It has no membranous endosteal expansion covering it, and no blood-vessels entering it. A portion examined by the microscope con- tains no vessels, and no corpuscles in the lacunae. This spicular net- work is, in fact, the calcareous remains of the walls of the cancelli; but no longer a vital structure capable of reparation, but a dead skeleton or framework which supports the vascular medullary tissue ; a dead texture which acts as a foreign body, keeping up irritation and suppuration, and determining the suppuration of that medullary tissue by wliich it is enveloped. Beyond this, but continuous with it by a gradual transfor- mation, we find the cancelli enlarged, and occupied by a very vascular medullary substance, adherent to their osseous walls. A portion of this bone, examined microscopically under favour-able circumstances, will shew the lacunae enlarged, and crowded with corpuscles; fusing together, and thus opening up the texture of the walls of the cancelli; piercing them through, and leaving in their place the product of corpuscular repro- duction in the form of a vascular medullary or gi-anulation tissue, continuous with, and structurally identical with, the medullary tissue occupying the normal cancelli of a spongy bone. Beyond this area, the irritation produced modifies the nutritive process in such a manner, that the walls of the cancelli become thickened at the expense of the medullary