160 THE GLANDULAR TUMOUR. Tumours aro Solid; consisting of a more or less compact fleshy growth, whose enveloping cyst or capsule is entirely of secondary forma- tion. Or they aro hollow—Encysted; the cyst the original structure, and its secretive power maintaining the Lulk and increase of the morhid growth. The solid tumours, again, are Simple and Malignant. In the former class are the Glandidar, the Fibro-cellular, the Fatty, the Fibrous, the Cartilaginous, the Osseous, the Calcareous, the Myeloid, the Vascular. The Malignant arc the different varieties of Cancer—Scirrhzis, Ejpithe- lioma, Medullary Tumour, Fungus Hoimatodes, Colloid Cancer, and Melanosis. The hollow, or encysted tumours, are usually non-malignant ; com- posed of mere cysts, either simple or proliferous. Tumours containing cysts imbedded in a solid stroma may be more properly included among the solid form9,tions, their fleshy portion being the j)art of the structure which determines their original character. I. Solid Tumours, non-malignant. 1. The Glandular Tumour.—There is reason to think that many of the tumours included under the "common vascular sarcoma" of Abernethy, are little else than abnormal increase and alteration of struc- ture in a gland, the original characters of which become more or less Fig. 42. Fig. 43. Fig. 44. completely lost to the naked eye, although they may be recognised by the microscope. Many of the simple tumours of the mammary gland, or Tliis series of diagi-ams represents microscopic sections of a simple tumour removed by operation from tlie female breast ; consisting mainly of hypertrophy of the fibrous stinicture of the gland, with enlargement of the included ducts and their epithelial linings. Fig. 42. c, Section of the epithelium from one of the tubes. 5, Group of epithelial cells from the same, a, The same after the addition of acetic acid. Fig. 43. Thill section of the same tumour, alter the addition of acetic acid. Fig. 44. Another section transverse to the former, similarly treated.—BiiNNisTT.