TREATMENT OF A.NCITYLOSIS. 368 All cases where anchylosis really exists should be warily interfered with. It is a cure certainly imperfect; yet both a saving of the part, and a cessation of morbid j)rogress ; and may be regarded as a compro- mise between health and disease—tlie ra.sh infringement of which is apt to be visited by untoward consequences. The true form is plainly not to bo broken up, either by gentle or by violent means. Tlie latter have been made trial of, with a result truly deplorable. The only means of treatment available is either excision of the articulating ends of the bone, or a resort, as formerly noticed, to section exterior to the obliterated joint, and formation of a false joint there ; an operation which has been successfully applied to the hip and knee-joints, but in regard to the expediency of which we desiderate a larger experience.* Fortunately, the true form of anchylosis is that which most rarely occurs. A joint may seem to be rigidly immovable by ossification, yet may be altogether free from that form of structural change, and quite capable of a resumed though diminished function; being, in truth, an example of one of the other forms of the affection. All of these admit of cure. In many cases, function may be wholly restored; in others, the restoration is never complete. In no case should it be attempted, tiU all active disease has wholly subsided within the joint; and even then, the process of cure should be warily and gradually conducted, lest re- accession of disease ensue. The means of restoration are :—1. Passive mo- tion, frequently employed, with all gentleness, and always regulated by the sensations of the patient; friction, with embrocations of a stimulant nature, especially over the extensor muscles ; local steam bath ; sham- pooing ; and, if need be, division, by subcutaneous section, of the rigid flexor tendons. Splints, bandaging, and other mechanical means, are also often of service, in restoring normal position of the joint; not sud- denly, but slowly, and with much caution. And this aid is especially necessary in those cases, by no means few, in which there is not merely flexion of the joint to be undone, but rotation also. Thus, in the knee, as already stated, flexion is seldom great, without rotation outwards of the head of the tibia; and unless this be rectified—as can only be done by mechanical means—the cure is obviously incomplete. When teno- tomy has been employed, the restorative measures by friction, motion, and machinery, are prudently delayed until the punctures have fairly healed, otherwise suppuration might be readily induced. II. The patient having been placed fully under the influence of chloroform, and tenotomy premised if need be, the anchylosis is broken up by forci])le flexion and extension of the limb, the after treatment of the articulation being that just detailed. True anchylosis, in which ordinary remedial means are hopeless, may be known—when, in addition to absolute immobility of the joint, even imder considerable force, the patient being chloroformed, the flexor * The operation alluded to has been performed three times upon the hip, and nine times upon the knee, in America. In one case a fatal result occurred. Obviously the proceeding is by no means devoid of danger ; and the circumstances of a case would require to be well considered, as well as urgent, ere such heroic practice be determined on. For details, see a copious note by the learned editor, Dr. Sargent, in the Ameri- can edition of this work, Philadelphia, 1852.