1009 IRTIEDUCIDLE HERNIA. vertebi-fe ; and tliis spring not so strong as to gall the parts by inor- dinate pressure, yet strong enough to shut up the opening efl^ctualiy. A thigh strap passing from the bade part of the spring to the pad, so as io prevent that from being displaced upwards, will also be found in many cases essential; and, to avoid chafing, a piece of folded lint or linen may be interposed beneath the instrument, at the sites of pressure. At night, the truss may be removed, on the patient lying down in bed, unless he is suffering from cough. In the morning it should be the first article of dress to be adjusted; great care being always taken that the pad fits accurately, does not tend to become displaced and permit pro- trusion during exertion, and that it exerts the required degree of restrain- ing pressure. Should at any time reprotrusion occur, the instrument must be instantly removed, and means as instantly taken for replacement and accurate readjustment. By careful and constant use of the truss, a radical cure is expected in the child. As, in the adult, the truss, hoAvever carefully and patiently worn, generally proves but a palliative, Radical Cures have naturally been eagerly sought for. Qf these, several have been applied more particularly to the inguinal hernia. In recent times those methods which consist in (fl) the invagination of a cutaneous or subcutaneous plug, to occupy the gap through which the protrusion has occurred—or {h) by which the parietes of the aperture are approximated by means of wire sutures or pins—have secured a greater amount of success than any of the older, clumsier, and less accurate procedures. As, however, the method of ap- plying these principles of treatment requires special adaptation to each form of hernia, we shall delay any further consideration of them until we have described the sites at which hernial protrusion usually occurs. Irreducible Hernia.—A hernia is said to be irreducible, when it can- not be reduced, and is permanently fixed in its extra-abdominal position. This state may be caused—1, Ly adhesion of the sac, on its external aspect, to the parts into which it has been protruded ; and by adhesion of its internal surface to the hernial contents. In a neglected hernia of any considerable duration, the former event seldom fails to take place ; and to constitute the second, plastic change has only to form on the op- posed surfaces. 2. By the nature of the protrusion. The caput coecum coli is uncovered by peritoneum posteriorly. It may slide down through the parietes; and, presenting at the groin, it may constitute an irre- ducible tumour—as well as a hernia without a sac. In such circum- stances, the areolar adhesions of the displaced coecum may have been extended and shifted but not broken; and they may present an insuper- able obstacle to replacement. But this is not always the case ; the bowel may have a more extensive peritoneal investment than usual; and, in- stead of merely descending with its areolar connections, may acquire a complete mesentery—so becoming easily reducible.* 3. By contraction of the abdominal cavity. When a large hernia has been long unreduced, it may, to a very great extent, become permanently irreducible, although no adhesion form between the cont-ents and the sac. The abdominal cavity, having parted with the greater proportion of its more movablo * La'icet, No. 123.^), ]). -102. :3 T