V in line representing the flap of skin in its new and elevated positioii. EPIPITOKA. G63 11 le brought together by suture, a proper compress is applied, and when !io parts heal the lid will be in close apposition to the globe. In the ;se of fuilty cicatrices, the procedure is more diilicult and less promising, iccasionally, the simple diA'ision of a tight adliesion may suflice for libo- I ;ition and replaceuient. Eut generally, there is loss of substance con- nected with the cicatrix, and consequently simple incision proves inade- iiuite. In the case of a moderate cicatrix, at some stance from the ciliary margin, amendment, if not mplete restoration, may be accomplished as fol- ws: Supposing tlie lower eyelid to be effected, a V uipeil incision is made, through the integument \ ,■' ily, the apex pointing to the cheek. By means i a knife's point, the included skin is freed a little . . Fig. 242, iin its areolar connections ; and resilience upwards ~ favoured by the necessary manipulation. Displacement upwards is en definitely secured, by bringing together laterally the wound that mains beneath, by means of sutures. In not a few cases, there is not ifficient laxity of parts to admit of tliis. Under such circumstances, •mething may be done by incising the eyelid, and replacing its ciliary uargin; then filling up the chasm beneath, which necessarily results, py a flap of integument borrow^ed from the adjoining cheek, temple, K frontal region. When ectropion has resulted from accidental wound Lt the canthus, rectification is easily obtained by reunion of the divided larts; the margins of the cicatrized wound being made raw by paring, in harelip, and retained in accurate apposition by suture. In cases ^here ectropion is produced by cicatricial puckering in connection with lisease of the osseous walls of the orbit, the cicatricial contraction may divided subcutaneously in many instances with good results. Blepharojplastics. When either eyelid has been partially or totally destroyed, by injury, sease, or operation, an attempt may be made, not without good prospect If success, to supply the deficiency by a suitable flap brought from the pmediate vicinity. ]S"o precise rules can be given for such an opera- Ion ; the details must necessarily vary in each case.* IIL Affections of the Lacheymal Apparatus. Epiphora. Stillicidium Laclirymarum. Epiphora, or watery eye, is in the strict use of the term due to an mascd secretion of tears, which stand in the inner canthus, or flow over ie cheek; while stillicidium lachrymarum depends on some affection of '6 excreting lachrymatory apparatus, which prevents them from taking * Loiidon and Edinburgh Monthly Journal, 1843, p. 359. Cyclopajdia of Prac- t;™;gery. ^iubvocc. Fig. 242, Plan of thi.s operation ; tlie dotted line marking the original wound ; the