II^EMATURIA. Ill merged therein. Concussion and compression of the brain are often associated, yet are regarded as distinct affections; and so here. The symptoms of Irritable Bladder are—frequent micturition, with uneasiness rather than actual pain ; the desire is almost constant, the slightest quantity of accumulated urine proving an unnatural stimulus to the irritable mucous coat; and relief is obtauied, on evacuation being completed. The pulse and general system are comparatively unaffected. The urine may be limpid and clear; frequently it is clouded by mucus ; not unfrequently it furnishes deposit of the urates. The cavity of the bladder is contracted; but not necessarily with structural change. In some cases, the coats have been found thinner than in health. The som'ce of irritation may be in the mucous coat itself. More frequently it is elsewhere ; affection of the kidney—in phosphatic or oxalic diathesis, for example ; ascarides, hemorrhoids, or other disease of the rectum ; cal- culus, or other irritation in the urethra; in children, it not unfrequently depends on a contracted state of the preputial orifice. Most frequently, the affection is found to originate in derangement of the kidney and of the general health; and this at once gives the two component parts ; the acridity of urine, and perverted sensibility of the mucous coat. In- deed, these morbid states very seldom are separate; for if irritation commence in the bladder, it is thence extended to the uro-poietic system, and derangement of secretion necessarily follows. Treatment consists in looking for a cause, and in removing it, if possible ; amending the stomach, bowels, and general health ; and restor- ing the urethra, rectum, and other parts to a sound state. By anodynes, given by both mouth and anus—but especially in the latter way—the irritation is subdued. And, throughout, a constant regard is had to the state of the urine. The small doses of alkali, largely diluted, are often found very serviceable. Eecumbency is advisable ; at all events in cases of severity. And should these simple means fail, recourse is had to smart coimter-irritation ; by blistering above the pubes, or over the sacrum. Mental anxiety induces a temporary simulation of this disease; or, perhaps, it may be said to cause a variety of it. The mucous coat is increased in sensibility, and the whole frame is in unwonted excitement. The urine is not acrid ; on the contrary, it is copious, pale, aqueous, and bland; and stimulates by quantity, rather than by quality. In this case, belladonna, hyoscyamus and other sedatives, are all-powerful; to- gether with attention to the manifest cause of the disorder. Hce)naturia. By this term is understood spontaneous discharge of blood from the urethra. It may proceed from different sources. 1. From the Kidney. —Stone in the kidney is often accompanied by discharge of blood from the mucous membrane in contact with the stone j more especially after violent exercise, error in diet, or other source of aggravation in gravel. Blows on the renal region cause h£ematuria; the blood in such a case sometimes passing in large quantity. Occasionally the occurrence takes place without any assignable exciting cause, in cases of structural disease of the organ.