FRACTURE OF THE RADIUS. 926 frequently been mistaken for the extremely rare injury—luxation of tlie carpus. The diagnostic marlcs are—detection of crepitus, mobility at tbo injured part, and non-continuity of tbe bone as evinced on rota- tion. But the case becomes obscure when the line of fracture is obhque and impaction has occurred. The lower fragment having received the sharp posterior laminated margin of the upper into its cancellated tissue the two become locked; so that, wliile deformity is present, continuity of the bone is apparently restored, and crepitus is felt but obscurely, if at all When in doubt, let the displaced extremity of the radius be restored to its normal position by pressure applied directly over the styloid process, and then, if fracture exist, its ordinary signs will be evinced. In treatment, it is necessary to be very careful to eflect accurate coaptation by reduction; then to apply splints on the dorsal and palmar aspects, securing the forearm and hand against every motion. The forearm is placed in the state of easy flexion. Still fui-ther to protect the lower fragment from displacement upwards and backwards, various devices have been fallen upon by different surgeons. In all, the hand is made the lever, and the end of the ulna the fulcrum Thus, Dupuytren and Sir A. Cooper recommended, along with the palmar and dorsal splints, a narrow ulnar splint, curved at an angle, so that the hand might be inclined inwards over the extremity of the ulna. Nelaton employs two forearm and hand splints, curved in the part coiTesponding to the hand, so as to resemble the butt end of a pistol. Hamilton (Buffalo) recommends a splint applied to the flexor aspect of the forearm and hand as far as the metacarpus, the hand portion curved towards the ulnar aspect, and a shorter splint applied on the extensor aspect of the forearm and reaching to the middle of the metacarpus. Li addition to adduction of the hand, others have recommended partial flexion, effected by means of a well padded flexible metal splint, over the extremity of which the fingers are maintained in a flexed position. It has even been proposed (Fauger of Copenhagen) to treat this fracture without splints. The hand having been brought into a position of strong flexion, the forearm is placed, pronated, on an oblique plane, with the carpus highest, the hand being permitted to hang freely down the perpendicular end of the plane. For ourselves we have long used, with satisfactory results, flexor and extensor splints which are made gradually narrowing from the upper to the digital extremity, being, however, at no part narrower than the width of the forearm at the wrist. After being weU padded mth cotton wadding—and the displacement having been thoroughly rectified—the splints are placed in position; and the bandage having been apphed to the site of the fracture, the ring and little fingers are drawn out between the ulnar margins of the splints, and kept there, the bandage including only the thumb, with the fore and middle fingers, mthin the grasp of the apparatus. In this way the adduction of the hand is quite satisfac- torily attained, while the pressure of the dorsal splint, without being inordinate or painful, prevents the reproduction of any displacement.