RESOLUTION. 25 The accompanying diagram, though both rude and fanciful, may a Health. assist to make this matter more plain. It will also illustrate the opinion held as to the gradual formation of the inflammatory crisis. The commencement, not inconsistent with healthy structure and function; but sometimes, by persistence, injurious. The second stage, a departure from true health, and pressing on to true disease ; the con- sequences sometimes salutary, in local emergencies—as in wounds and ulcers; but, in general, prone to evil by alteration of both structure and function. Tlie third stage essentially morbid; and although attended with rapid cell-production, utterly at variance with healthy structure and function. The higher results, which follow the suppurative crisis by continuance of the disease, are invariably subversive of function, and destructive of texture; and, consequently, are pernicious—unless when it has become essential for the wellbeing of the whole, that the part so affected shall be destroyed.* Eesolution may be gradual or sudden, spontaneous or artificial, im- perfect or complete; the more early and slight the morbid change, the more Likely is the resolution to be speedy, spontaneous, and perfect. When sudden, the term Delitescence is commonly employed j denot- ing an occurrence favourable in. itself, but invariably associated, in the mind of the experienced practitioner, with a suspicious prognosis. Were the delitescence effected simply, and there an end, the immediate benefit derived woiild be without alloy. But experience tells us, that the ab- rupt and sudden disappearance of advancing inflammatory disease in one part, is often, if not usually, followed by the appearance of similar dis- order elsewhere. And, as we have no guarantee that the change shall be to an equally harmless locality, such change must at all times be a matter of suspicion, and often of danger. The disease, for example, may leave one part of the skin, and suddenly appear in another portion of the * The dotted lines denote the process of Resolution, or the return to health—a, sudden and direct Resolution, or Delitescence, h, b, b, lines of gradual Resolution from various points of the ascending process. The suppurative stage having been attained, true Resolation cannot occur ; that is to say, a certain amount of change of structure must be peimanent.