174 Fig. 62. or more nuclei, of large size MALIGNANT TUMOUES. this—the removal hoing specially ample and free, with a margin, as in the case of malignant tumours, so as to guard, as far as possible, against any radicle being left beliind. IV. Tlie Malignant Tumours. "We now take leave of analogy of structure with benignity of cha- racter, and come to heterologous formations, truly malignant. These change altogether the original texture ; invade the surrounding parte, converting them into a similar structure with themselves; and extend not only by continuity, but re- motely, by the lymphatics ; the lymphatic ganglia enlarging, • not so as to constitute a mere V;;". hypertrophy, but a production '■'■^ of the same kind as the ori- !^ ginal tumour ; and the system 1^ is involved in a cachexy, too often insuperable, whereby re- production of the disease is rendered in the highest degree probable, at one or at many sites. Malignant tumours gene- rally abound in cell-formations, and in blood-vessels ; hence in all probability their rapid growth and quick disintegration. The cells are commonly contained within the meshes of a fibrous structure; which is sometimes however in very small quantity, as in the softer varie- ties of medullary tumour. The ^^.^^ cells present a high degree of ^ development; containing one as compared with those of normal cells ; and these again containing nu- cleoli. Following Mr. Paget, a safe guide in such matters, we may take the corpuscles found in scirrhus as the typical " cancer-cells." In shape they are various; usually a large majority are broadly oval, or nearly round; in some specimens, indeed, all may have these forms; but, in other specimens, though these prevail, yet many cells have one or more angles, or out-drawn processes ; and some are pyi-iform, some fusiform, some reniform, some nearly lanceolate. In size the cells range from -j-^xyjj of an inch to -^-^ of an inch in diameter. Their medium and most frequent sizes are from i-aW xoVir ■> ^^^^ smaller dimensions are usually Fig. 59. Simple and compoimd cancer cells from cancerous duodenum.—Bennett. Fig. 60. Cancer cells in progress towards full development. Fig. 61. The same acted on by acetic acid. Fig. 62. Corpuscles and gruiuiles ft"om tlie same tumour, in progress towards decay.