WOUNDS OF THE PLEURA. 968 the ordinary liemostatics, ligature and i)tcssure, will not be found to fail. The most serious cases of injury of the intercostal arteries, are when tho, wound is an oblique and punctured one; or when, from Iracture of the ujjper libs near their angles, the upper intercostal arteries have been wounded, and when, without any external manifestation of hemorrhage, copious bleeding gradually accumulates in the thoracic cavity. Wlien, again, the bleeding occurs externally, but the vessel cannot ha seen, the surgeon should bear in mind that the flow of bright arterial blood may be from the substance of the lungs. The mere fact, however, that the blood is frothy, should not lead to the decided conclusion that the som'ce is from a wound of the lung ; for, in either case, the blood may be mixed with air. Entrance of air by the wound, and accumulation of it within the chest, are to be avoided when the wound is small, and unattended by laceration, or copious and unarrested bleeding, by its early and accurate closure. Otherwise, the condition of pneumo-thorax is established ; and if the air enters more fi-eely than it escapes, the lung becomes compressed and collapsed. When, however, the opening in the thoracic parietes is considerable, and does not admit of being closed, as in gunshot wounds, we are able to observe the natural progress of events. Thus, the air both entering and escaping freely, while at the same time the lung is not wounded, immediate collapse of this organ upon the affected side does not either usually or necessarily ensue. It in fact remains passive; the chest walls moving, and giving to it sometimes even the appearance of expansion cUiring expiration and contraction during inspiration. In other cases, when tlie patient coughs, and thus closes the glottis during expiration, the forcible inflation of the lung upon the wounded side, by contraction of the sound side of the chest, really produces an expansion of the lung during expiration; and that to such an extent, that if a considerable quantity of air has entered the thoracic cavity through the wound, the portion of the lung corresponding to the opening in the parietes may even become forcibly protruded, constituting a traumatic hernia of th.e lung. Under any circumstances, when the function of the lung upon the injured side is much embarrassed, the breathing is conse- quently rendered imperfect; and the sound lung, having suddenly a great amount of additional duty thrown upon it, labours in its fmic- tion, becomes dangerously congested, possibly apoplectic, or attacked by the inflammatory process. These immediate dangers having been sur- passed, others remain. The wound, suppurating, may lead to serious affection of the pleura upon the injured side, by extension of the inflam- matory process ; and this has to be guarded against by antiphlogistic regimen, in the first instance, followed, if need be, by venesection and antimony. In most cases, however, a putrescent sero-purulent fluid collects in the thoracic cavity, attended Avith a typhoid condition of system requiring the free use of stimulants instead of evacuants and sedatives. 2, Wounds of the Pleural Cavity and Lung.—Here the dangers are from hemorrhage, pneumo-thorax, and emj^hysema, and, at a later period, from the occurrence of tlie inflammatory process. 1'hcre is now a tliird outlet for the bleeding j by the bronchial tubes, as well as into the pleural