CHAPTER LX. VENEREAL DISEASES. The history of the venereal disease is involved in some obscurity. How- ever, it seems extremely prohable—if not, indeed, quite certain—that alfections of the genital organs, dependent on licentious venereal inter- course, have existed from the earliest ages ; that they have prevailed in various degrees of frequency and intensity, at different times and places; that they were not directly imported from America to Europe, by Col- umbus' followers, in the end of the fifteenth century ; but that, between the years .1493 and 1495—at the time of the siege of Naples—they experienced an aggravation in Europe, and consequently attracted much more prominently the attention of the profession. They are usually spoken of under the general term of " the Venereal Disease and this again is divided into Gonorrhoea, Chancres, and SyphiHs; all the result of the application of a simple or specific source of irritation, engendered by ilhcit intercourse—or at least communicated thereby; the first an inflammatory affection of the urethra ; the second consisting of sores, some of which constitute a merely local disease, implicating nothing farther than the first gland in the nearest lymphatic chain ; the last a contamination of the whole system, preceded by the formation of an ulcer on some part of the penis, or other portion of the body. By some, it is still maintained that the poisons are the same; that what produces gonorrhoea is capable of exciting chancres and sypliilis, and vice versa. The weight of authority, however, preponder- ates largely in favour of an opposite opinion ; viz., that gonorrhoea is due to no specific or constant cause—any irritant, chemical, vital, or animal, being capable of producing it;—that the soft chancre is a painful, destruc- tive, but only local affection; and that syphilis is due to a pecuhar specific virus by which alone can the disease be propagated. Gonorrhoea. An acute inflammatory process seizes on the lining membrane of the anterior part of the urethra; mostly caused by the appHcation of gonorrhoeal matter, from a second party ; and this appHcation usually made during sexual intercourse. There is usually an interval of uncer- tain extent between the date of exposure to the source of contagion and the appearance of the purulent discharge, which may show itself -withui not many hours after connection, or not till after many days have elapsed. About the fifth day may be taken as the average period of accession. Heat and itching are felt in the glaus, which seems fuller and more deeply coloured than usual; the urethral orifice is xmeasy, red,