846 TUMOUllS OF THE NECK. also be i-cmonxbored that a clu-onic glandular abscess in this i-egioii, lying bonoath the deep fascia in contact Avith the carotid artery, at or near its bifurcation, naay bo mistaken for an aneurism, and that such faulty diagnosis has occurred in the hands of men of the greatest talent and practical sagacity. The careful consideration of the antecedent liig. tory of the case is alone likely to save the surgeon from such a grave error, as a resort to ligature of the carotid artery would be in such cir- cumstances. Tumours of the Neck. Solid tumours, when of such a nature as not to be amenable to dis- cussion, require early removal, otherwise each day will but add to the difficulty and danger of the operation; and when at last matters are found to brook no further delay, it is not impossible but the hazard may be found so much increased as to render any attempt at extirpation quite unwarrantable. In considering the propriety of undertaking operative measures on account of any tumour of the neck, its relations to surrounding parte should be carefully considered along with its essential nature. The great practical rule always to be remembered is, that tumours imderlying the sterno-mastoid, and, still more, the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, do not admit of operative interference. Such tumoui's are generally malignant ; and although they may externally seem unattached, yet when the fascia is divided, and the superficial portion of the mass laid bare, it may be found to include the carotid artery, internal jugular, and vagus nerve, in its textures—nay, it may be abready attached to the vertebrfe or pharynx. Such obstacles to the removal of a tumour, how- ever, have not daunted soine operators. No doubt the carotid artery and jugular vein may, if divided, be secured by ligature; but as hitherto the removal of all such deep-seated growths, even at an early period, has been followed by fatal consequences, there can be no great inducement to follow such an example. Cases, however, of fibrous tumours, situated beneath the deep fascia of the neck, and deeply fiu'rowed by the tense sterno-mastoid, have occurred, where the operation of excision has been successfully undertaken, the tumour proving to be quite unconnected with any important parts. In connection mth this subject, it is well to remember, that in cases of tumour underlying the deep and strong cervical fascia in the interval between the muscles, it may seem to be less deeply seated than it is really; and that, consequently, much caution is always expedient in effecting its removal, it being probable that the common sheath of the large vessels will have to be exposed—perhaps to some extent. The dissection should therefore be made through an ample external incision, and the textures divided towards or upon Ihe tumoiu's, while the deeper attachments should not be touched until the whole surface towards the margin has been fully exposed on every side. Broncliocele, or Goitre. The term denotes a tumour due to enlargement of the tliyroid gla