342 CITKONIC SYNOVIAL DISEASE. Tiaiure of the parts implicated, it is not improbaljle that such hopes may bo disappointed. As formerly observed, punilent formations not unfrequently form in the larger joints, in the latter stage of pyaemia. Such formations, how- ever, are altogether different from ordinary abscess ; not the disease, but only a symptom of one infinitely more formidable, under -which latter the system has rapidly given way, and hopelessly. The complication by articular abscess does not cause, but probably accelerates dissolution— already very near. There is seldom time or opportunity afforded, there- fore, for treatment of the local malady ; even should this be deemed ex- pedient. But if there should, general principles are still to be enforced; a free and dependent incision is made. Chronic Synovial Disease. This may be simple in its nature—chronic synovitis ; or connected with and marked by the scrofulous or other cachexies—scrofulous, or gelatinous, and fimbriated degeneration of the synovial membrane. 1. Simple Chronic Synovitis.—It may be original or secondary. The inflammatory process may have been chronic from the first; or originally acute, and subsequently assuming the chronic form. The pain, heat, etc., are comparatively slight. Swelling is the prominent symptom. And now the peculiarities of bulging, dependent on the structure of the joint, come to be distinctly seen—a 'circumstance diagnostic between the chi'onic and acute forms of synovitis. For the superimposed soft parts sympathize but little, a,nd consequently cause little or no obscuration of the synovial bulge. The membrane is thickened, dull in hue, increased in vascularity; and gradually changes its smooth internal aspect into a soft, pulpy, or villous surface. The cavity contains more or less of a serous fluid ; either pure, or mingled with a small proportion of flocculent secretion. This has accumulated slowly ; the parts have gradually ac- commodated themselves to its presence ; and the process of distension is consequently attended with but little uneasiness. Sometimes the process of accumulation is peculiarly indolent and painless ; and yet tolerably rapid in its rise. The superficial soft parts are wholly uninvolved; the whole disease seeming to be the product of a suddenly occurring passive congestion of the synovial membrane, and limited to that texture. The fluid is entirely serous ; and the form of the swelling is very decidedly influenced by the natural configuration of the joint. This condition is termed Hydrops Artictdi. The knee is its most frequent seat. It is most apt to occur at or beyond adult age; and in those who have suffered from mercury. Chronic synovitis, though not in itself urgent in its nature, is never- theless fraught with danger by continuance. For, at any time, a slight exciting cause may suffice for the induction of acute inflammatory acces- sion. Even supposing that this do not occur, structure is certain ultimately to be seriously changed by persistence of the present affection, chronic though it be; and that not only in the texture originally in- volved, but in others to which the disease may gradually extend—the