741 RIIINOLITHES—EPISTAXIS. and may become dangerous by its tendency to ulcerate and bleed. Cure lias been obtained by destructive application of the actual cautery, to the diseased tissue.* If this is to be employed, the galvanic cautery is certainly better suited for the purpose, than the haphazard applica- tion of tlie ordinary redhot iron. BhinoUthes. Ehinolithes, or calculi of the nasal fossae, are composed of mucus, )hosphate of Hme, and the carbonates of hme and magnesia; and are lost frequently found in the inferior meatus. In volume they vary from pea to a pigeon's egg; in colour black, grey, or white ; of ^ rough sur- ll'ace; and often containing a foreign body, or the root of an incisor tooth, a nucleus. Sometimes they create but little disturbance ; in other ;es chronic inflammatory disease is lit up; in some suppuration occurs, Lth profuse fretid discharge ; and the septum may ultimately gave way )y ulceration, the whole organ becoming seriously deformed. The eye loo may sympathize ; and that seriously. Treatment is by extraction of [he offending substance; and this is to be effected either by forceps or )y scoop, as may seem most convenient; antiphlogistics being afterwards [mployed to subdue excitement. ■]- Epistaxis. By this term is understood, an inordinate hemorrhage from one or oth nostrils. It may be the immediate result of an operation for poly- ; it may follow external injury, with or without fracture of the nasal ones; it may be one of the untoward results of medullary formation, ithin the nasal cavity, or connected with it; it may be a critical deple- jn, or natural occurrence—as, e. g., in the course of typhus fever. It may ^company a depraved state of the general system and blood, as in scar- lous cases, or scorbutus ; or it may be the consequence of a passively Ingested state of the Schneiderian membrane, as in cases of disease of le heart. The common bleedings of the nose, in adolescents, caused by lethora, and tending to relieve the system from that unsafe condition, rcely come under the designation of epistaxis ; in these usually the ig is not inordinate, is in all respects safe and beneficial, and linly requires the adoption of no m.eans for its arrest. Our first duty when called to a case of alarming hemorrhage from nose, is not at once to attempt to check it; but to determine whether eh an attempt be advisable or not. K the bleeding be habitual, in a Dust and plethoric patient, not very far advanced in years—if it be at critical in its history, as connected with an inflammatory attack ad- icing ia some adjacent part—if we are told that the patient has been bject to giddiness, or other affections of the head—we are not to inter- |e, unless evident signs exist that a greater amount of blood has already pved than the system can well bear, and that further loss would pro- DttWin Quarterly Journal, Feb. 1847, p. 31. 1+ Demarquay, Annales dc la CMnugie, July 1845 ; and Eanking's Retrospect, ii. p. 100: