480 PUNCTURED WOUKDS. tion. The wound is partly incised, partly contused ; but it partak(;H much more of the former than of the latter cliaracter; and is to be treated accordingly—by close apposition, and Avith a view to adhesion, IV. Punctured Wounds. These are inflicted by the i)enetration of a sharp and pointed instru- ment, which bruises and tears as well as cuts. This cla.ss of wound, consequently, is of a compound nature. When of any considerable ex- tent, the injury is always serious. A long track of superficial Avound, involving little more than the integument and areolar tissue, is compara- tively trivial; when, however, the direction is not along the surface, but towards the interior, there is always reason for apprehension. Tlie danger is twofold :—First, from injury done to important parts ; as arteries, veins, nerves, canals, cavities, joints. Secondly, from inflam- matory change occiming in the deep part of the wound, the purulent secretion being confined, diffuse infiltration being consequently favoured, and much damage resulting to both part and system. The form of the wound renders the former danger probable. Its nature disjjoses to the latter; for, being in part both contused and lacerated, a certain amount of suppuration is sure to result; especially in those cases in Avhich blood has been infiltrated into the areolar tissue, in consequence of the form of the wound preventing its free exit. A third danger may be stated; from the chance of a part of the weapon breaking off", and re- maining lodged in the depths of the wound; rendering inflammatory accession there, and that of an intense character, inevitable. Treatment.—At one time it was the invariable custom of the sur- geon, so soon as satisfied that a wound was of the punctiu-ed kind, to ' dilate it freely; so as to give it an undoubted title to the appellation of incised. By others, tents or tubes were kept in the wound ; and while active general antiphlogistics Avere required to moderate the ii-ritation thus induced, it was thought that the patient was really benefited by \ such procedures. Such unnecessary severity, however, has noAv been justly abandoned. Dilatation may be required; but often it is neither necessary nor expedient, in the first instance. The use of tents and tubes can under no circumstances be necessary. A large number of punctured wounds partake of the incised character, more largely than of the bruised and lacerated; and are to be treated accordingly. By in- quiry into the history of the case, examination of the inflicting weapo" and the gentlest possible examination Avith the finger, if need be, it ascertained that no foreign matter has lodged. Apposition is th effected, gently and accurately; by attention to position, and by the use pads of lint and a bandage to support the track of the wound, and keep i Avails in apposition. The part is kept at rest; and the system is place under the antiphlogistic regimen. We hope for adhesion, and frequent! are not disappointed. Yet it is not unlikely to fail, for the reaso" already stated. When it does, transition is made to Avai'm Avater-dress ing, and other means suitable for mitigating the coming inflammatoi attack. If this prove moderate, (he discharge have free exit, and n