CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. 952 ment, are those of severe spinal concussion or compression; and the subsequent dangers are also those that may he expected to follow such injury. By repose upon a firm mattress in the recumbent posture, perfect rest of the injured part is secured, with so mucli adjustment as tliis position, aided by pillows, may serve to secure. The treatment other- wise depends upon the severity, persistence, and modification of the symptoms of concussion which are present. Lcderal Curvature of the Spine. Lateral curvature of the spine is usually contrasted with antero- posterior or acute angular ciu'vature ; the latter the result of inflamma- tory destruction of the bodies of one, two, or three of the vertebrae; the former afiecting several or all the vertebraa, and originally unconnected with inflammatory structural change. In the one form of disease there is mere change of form; in the other, there is inflammatory change and disintegration of bone, with or without the occurrence of curvature. It is right to remember, however, that in some cases the antero-posterior curve, when involving several vertebrae, is reaUy of the same nature as the lateral distortion, and originally unconnected with inflammatory disease. Lateral curvature may arise from different causes. And it is impor- tant to classify the cases accordingly ; that the suitable treatment may be afforded to each. Peculiar avocations are not unfrequently the cause. Those, for example, which entail a habitual use of the right arm, much disproportioned to that of the left; as in blacksmiths and dragoons. The muscles of the right side become largely developed, and powerful; and the trapezius and rhomboids, thus changed, acting on the spinal column so as to overpower their fellows of the opposite side, have the effect of gradually inducing distortion—it may be to a considerable ex- tent. In nursery-maids, who carry children on one arm, a similar change is induced by the undue weight given to the one shoulder. Of course, this form of curvature is most hkely to occur during adolescence. The remedy is simple ; discontinuance of the excessive use of the affected side, with iacreased employment of the other. The displacement, if recent and slight, can thus be perfectly removed. Deformity in one of the lower extremities, by which it is rendered shorter than its fellow, as in morbus coxarius or ill-united fracture— unless atoned for by suitable mechanical contrivance—will certainly cause more or less compensating curvature of the vertebral column; also a rigid and contracted state of the sterno-mastoid muscle of one side, producing the condition called Torticollis, is very apt to cause spinal curvature, as has already been noticed. In the latter case, the remedy is simple, if soon enough adopted; by division of the offending muscle. Such a condition must, however, be carefully distinguished from curvature of the cei'vical vertebrae, the result of rheumatic or other inflammatory disease affecting the bodies of the bones, chiefly on one side, and thus producing a contraction of the sterno-mastoid commensurate and secon- dary to the spinal chaiige. Deformity of one side of the thorax, resulting from injiu-y or