416 brasdor's operation. Tlie old operation, hy direct incision, has been recently revived by- Mr. Syme, and with a certain amount of success ; incising the sac, turn- ing out the contents, and tying the artery above and below tlie aneur- ismal opening, as in the case of accidental aneurism. The soundness of such practice seems to depend upon the settlement of this question—Are the coats of the vessel necessarily in their maximum amount of athero- matous degeneration at that point, or are tliey quite as likely to be as sound there as at the point of Hunterian selection ? Evidence as to tins grave matter is now desired, through pathological research and observa- tion. Should it prove favourable, then such a method of operation Avould certainly be preferred in certain localities ; in axillary aneurism, for example, tying the affected vessel in preference to even the outer third of the subclavian. The operation of Brasdor is the reverse of that of Hunter; the appU- cation of a ligature, not on the cardiac, but on the distal side of the tumour—in its near proximity. This metliod of applyuig the ligature, first suggested by Desault, was recommended in his lectures on theoretical grounds by Brasdor, and performed for the fii'st time in a case of aneurism of the common femoral by Deschamps. Obstruction occurs at the point tied; coagulation and remora of the arterial contents take place up to the nearest collateral branch ; and, if there be no vessel given off between the tumour and the point of deligation, the former will obviously he included within the range of delayed and coagulating blood—a state favourable for originating and advancing the process of cure. If, how- ever, any branch of considerable size do interfere, it is equally plain that the effect of deligation may be to cause an increased turmoil at and within the tumour, and to aggravate the disease accordingly. Also much difficulty may be experienced in cutting down upon the vessel It may have been already obliterated; it may be much displaced from its nor- mal relative position ; in the great majority of cases, as formerly stated, it is certain to be somewhat diminished in size; the surrounding parts may have been the seat of a chronic form and low grade of the inflam- matory process, and the vessel may be intimately blended with condensed . and infiltrated structure. This mode of operation, then, applied generally to aneurism, is : obviously inferior to the Hunterian. Yet its employment has occasion- • ally been deemed expedient. In an anuerism situated so close to the : trunk of the body as to preclude the application of ligature on its cardiac • side—instead of abandoning all surgical interference, and resorting merely to medical treatment in the hope of facilitating the accession of spon- • taneous cure, thus, as it were, leaving the patient to his fate—some have * even recently urged the propriety of resorting to the distal operation, if f circumstances seem otherwise favourable ; and if the patient, after having heard an honest explanation of the risk, express himself Avilling and anxious that the attempt should be made. In aneurism, for example, of the common carotid at its origin, where experience has amply proved I that we need not attempt the Hunterian operation, by ligature of the • anonyma—that being certain to fail—Brasdor's operation, they say, is • not unlikely to succeed ; inasmuch as there is a long space of the carotid from which no branch is normally given off, and consequently no vessel ig likely to intervene between the tumour and the distal ligatui-e. Th'^