438 SUrrUKATIVE rilLEBITIS. Another risk is Ly softening of the clot; this melting down, as it were, into a puriform fluid—if not sequestrated from tlie course of tlie venous circulation by newly added coagula—mingles with the onward current of the blood, enters the general circulation, and may give rise to the fatal complication of pyajmia. II. SuFPURATiVE Phlebitis.—This is often of traumatic origin. It may occur in one of two forms; Limited or Diffuse; the former com- paratively safe, so long as the character of limitation is retained; the latter invariably fraught with the utmost danger. 1. LimiteO,—The morbid process commencing of a minor grade, the same results ensue as in obstructive phlebitis. Coats are thickened; contents are solidified; cir- culation is arrested at that point. Then suppuration takes place; and the pus mingles with the coagulum, which becomes softened and broken up. How the pus is formed is a matter somewhat in dispute. Formerly it was supposed to be a secretion from the hning membrane of the vein; but latterly it has been thought that such a non-vascular tissue is in- capable of such rapid and profuse secretion, and that the pus therefore comes from without, by imphcation of the external coats and surround- ing areolar tissue; the non-vascular serous coat becoming disintegrated, and ulceratively crumbling away, while the others furnish the inflamma- tory secretions. However formed, the pus constitutes an abscess of the venous tube ; the soft parts sympatliizing in the ordinary way. Above and below the suppurated part of the vein, the incorporation of coats with contents is not disturbed. Dykes, composed of dense and adherent coagulum, remain ; presenting a salutary barrier to the irruption of pus into the open portion of the vessel, and thence into the general circular tion. The constitutional symptoms are of the inflammatory type; more marked than in the simple obstructive form. 2. Diffuse.—Here all gives way before acute and spreading suppu- ration. There is no bulging tumour; no indication of matter accumu- lating and gradually approaching the surface. All is rapidly and diffusely infiltrated. Tlie morbid condition is very similar to that of phlegmonous erysipelas. The oiiter coats of the vein and the surround- ing areolar tissue are infiltrated by unhealthy suppuration; and the inner coat of the vein, perishing, lays the vessel's tube open to pus from without and softened coagulum from within, which, unless confined by fibrinous dykes on the cardiac aspect, as most probably will not be the case in this asthenic form of disease, mingles with the circulation, and must do evil there. Constitutional symptoms, preceded by rigors, set in of the most urgent kind; first irritative, then typhoid, and tenduig to rapid and fatal j)rostration. The disease may have been from the first of this kind ; then tlie symptoms, too, from the very commencement, are urgent. Or the limited form may have degenerated into the diffuse; the protective dykes having stood for a time, but at length giving way before disrup- tive inflammatory progress. In the latter circumstances, the occurrence of change from the limited to the diffuse is marked ; locally, by disper- sion of the soft swelling; constitutionally, by intense shiverings, fol- lowed immediately by formidable constitutional aggra^'■ation. In whichever way the difl'use form supervene, in the greater iium-