421 TREATMENT BY PRESSURE, roiiis' compressor, in which the eh^stic element is introduced, according to the plan of my pupil Mr. Brims. But even these instruments are not to be looked upon as perfect. No doubt they are doomed to give place, and that perhaps ere long, to some plan yet more simple. And probably that will be the use of animal prcsdure; the fingers aiid thumbs of steady assistants being employed, who are got in sufficient numbers to maintain not only an absolutely constant, but a sufficiently continuous pressure on the vessel, with that accui-acy and elasticity which the intelligent and living organ- ism alone can supply. Sometimes but a few houi's of such pressure suffices to initiate the process of cure. When, however, such relays of assistants cannot be obtaiiied, the method more recently employed in Dublin and elsewhere may be satisfactorily adopted. This consists in applying a leaden weight varying from four to eight and a half pounds over the course of the femoral artery ; and according to Mr. Cusack seven and a half pounds is the average weight required to command the circu- lation through this vessel. The weight may be kept in its place either by means of a strap loosely encircling the limb, or by means of a leather or pasteboard tube, which is retained by straps, and is of size sufficient to contain and support loosely the leaden weight, which should be of an oval form. By some, again, the weight is perforated and allowed to slide loosely upon the rod of the Carte's apparatus, its ordi- nary compressing pad having been removed. But pressure is not trusted to alone. Some preparatory treatment is necessary, as before the operation by ligature. And, throughout the whole period of treatment, absolute repose "with recumbency is maintained; as well as antiphlogistic regimen, the administration of opiates, and all other means likely to favour the desired beneficial change. Also, it may be well that the limb below the compressed point should be uniformly and equably supported by bandaging, lest congestion and oedema supervene; and this support may from time to time be cauti- ously extended to that part of the limb which includes the aneur- ismal tumour. Or such direct pressure, added to the indirect, may be accomphshed in another and better way (as recommended by Messrs. Ernest Hart and Shaw); viz., by change of position in the limb ; flexing the leg upon the thigh, for example, in the case of popliteal aneurism ; and increasing or lessening the degree of the flexion and pressure, as circumstances may seem to require, by a band which attaches the heel to a waistbelt. Let no haste be indulged in. The process is ordinarily gradual, not sudden; interrupted, not continuously progressive. The pressui-e requires to be neither great nor constant; for we do not desire ob- struction, even temporary, of the arterial tube there; it is sufficient to moderate, not essential to arrest the flow. And only by a constant remembrance that such are the principles of cure by this means, will the treatment be so leisurely and prudently conducted, as to ensure avoidance of the disasters to which compression is otherwise liable. The contemplated advantage of such a mode of treatment, when properly conducted, is the sense of absolute safety in the means em- ployed, even if abortive ; subsequent recourse to the ligature, if need