ENTROPION. GGO wish to save the oyehall from serious injury. In the temporary form, it will be sufficient to oppose inversion by the application of contractile collodion, or retracting plasters, frequently renewed, until the cause oi displacement has been removed by treatment directed towards subjug- tion of the inflammatory process and dispersion of its swelling, other instances, subcutaneous tenotomy of the orbicularis may be p tised with success. If the integument be redundant, a portion may V pinched up and retained by being drawn through an elongated loop o elastic steel wire, or held by a minute pair of spring wire forceps; or more permanent effect may be produced by the removal of an ellipti portion of the integument, together with the subjacent portion of m' lar fibres. Care is necessary in determining how much is to be t away, so as to insure rectification of the position of the eyehd ; while we avoid removing an unnecessary amount, and so causing an opposi condition of the parts—ectro2non. A horizontal fold is pinched up b suitable forceps, or by the fingers, and is removed by curved scisso This wound, to be effectual, should usually include all the skin about a line above the tarsal margin, to within the same distance of t" margin of the eyebrow. The gaping raw surface appears nearly circt After bleeding has ceased, the edges are united by sutures, and adhesio" follows. Escharotics may be employed for the same purpose ; but the are inferior to cutting instruments, being possessed of no exactitude to the amount of texture to be destroyed. Sulphuric acid is usuf recommended for this purpose; when used, it is applied to the exte" surface of the lid, above the margin of the tarsal cartilage, by m" of a wooden lucifer match soaked in the monohydrated acid. The ap cation is momentary, but very painful. A slough forms of a bl charred aspect; and the contraction which follows its separation e a cure. The eye, however, must be carefully guarded from the during its application to the lid. It should only be preferred in where the patient will not submit to an operation by sharp instrumen' When the disease is dependent on a perverted state of the ci margin and tarsal cartilage, various methods may be adopted. The and their bulbs may be removed, as for trichiasis ; care being taken. leave the puncta lachrymalia intact. Or, by operations such as t. following, an attempt may be made, retaining the eyelashes, to hbera and restore them to their normal position. The iii-st expedient w proposed by Mr, Streatfield. " A horn spatula is introduced below t lid, thus rendering its surface tense. An incision is made parallel the ciliary margin, over the convex aspect of the cartilage, so as to ads of the removal by two incisions of a narrow wedge-shaped slice of f tarsal cartilage, leaving a groove extending longitudinally from one e to the other of the cartilage. The incurvation of the cartilage is tl compensated for, the free margin of the lid everted, and, by the introd- tion of a few points of fine silver wire suture, the womid unites by i first intension ; or, the inverted lid is separated from the globe of ? eye by means of the finger or a sharp hook ; and then with a pair; strong scissors, two perpendicular incisions are made through the cartilage, each about a quarter of an inch in length, the one upon temporal, tho other upon tho nasal side, avoiding the punctum, and