CHAPTER XXIL EFFECTS OF COLD. Frost Bite—Tlie effect of intense cold applied to a part, so as greatly to diminish vital power, and not unfrequently to produce local death, more especially when heat or other stimulus is rashly used—we have already considered under the head of mortification. The term Gliilhlcdn or Pernio is applied to a less evil; the effect of cold, as affecting the texture more superficially. The parts most Uable so to suffer, are those which not only are habitually exposed to great and sudden alternations of heat and cold, hut are also natm^ally of comparatively weak circulation, and consequently easily debilitated; as the fiingers and hands; the toes, feet, heels, and ankles; the tips of the nose and ear. And these are most especially liable, when extreme circulation in the individual is naturally imperfect; from dyspepsia, or other disease, or from origmal conformation. Like frost-bite, chil- blain is usually not a direct but a secondary effect of cold; caused by premature restoration of heat and circulation. Eeaction is excessive, with diminished power of control. Yet a high degree of the inflamma- tory process does not ensue ; otherwise gangrene woidd inevitably result, and the case be termed one of frost-bite. The debilitated textures either become congested, or a chronic inflammatory process is estabhshed. An unpleasant sensation of heat is complained of, often attended or followed by an intolerable itching. The part swells, and becomes of a dark venous red hue. !N"o further progress may be made, the part remain- ing in this congested state for a long period ; not advancmg to higher morbid results, and but little disposed to recede. But, very frequently, vesicles form; and these do not dry and desquamate in the ordinary manner ; but, having given way, disclose a painful ulcer with a smooth surface and thick white edges, emitting a slimy discharge, slow to heal, and prone to assume either the irritable or indolent characters; often at first irritable, and secondarily indolent. Or, instead of vesication, the surface seems to crack; and the fissures degenerate into ulcers of a simi- lar kind. Usually, the ulceration is but superficial; occasionally, how- ever, where actual frost-bite has complicated the chilblain, it extends deeply, involving tendons, and even deeper parts. Prevention is better tlian cure; by avoiding exposure to extreme cold, more especially in the parts most liable to suffer. Using for the purposes of ordinary ablution lukewarm water; neither cold nor hot; always drying the skin thoroughly before exposing it to the air ; and when exposure has been incurred, taking care that reaction is gradual and safe, using, for this purpose, tlie means recommended in tlie case of threatened frost-bite. In cliildren, tightly fitting shoes, stoclcings, and