STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. 1053 invariably be found more or less deranged ; and in the occasional use of a short bougie, of metal or caoutchouc, passed just within the sphincter, ;iud retained for a ^e^y minutes on each occasion. An obstinate case may- render division of the sphincter expedient; and in such circumstances the subcutaneous operation may be preferred. Belladonna may be used, in the form of ointment. Simple organic stricture may be congenital, and escape detection for many years; more usually it is the result of a chronic rectitis, as already stated The constriction depends partly on condensation and thickening of the entire coats of the bowel; but mainly on organised product in the submucous areolar tissue. The ordinary site is about two inches from the orifice ; and it is seldom indeed that this form of stricture is found beyond reach of the finger. The leading symptom is difficulty in defsecation, with shmy discharge; the faeces passing in a flattened and attenuated form, like tape, or sometimes like small rounded pellets, when solid ; and when fluid, being liable to forcible ejection as if from a syringe. Derangement of the digestive organs, with impairment of the general health, is induced; the abdomen becomes swoln, perhaps tympanitic ; and the urinary organs are sympathetically involved. Above the stricture, dilatation takes place, and there ulceration is apt to occur in the mucous membrane ; greatly aggravating the distressing symptoms, and, in the aged, not unlikely to degenerate into malignancy. From the obstructed state of the bowels, enteritic symptoms may perhaps arise j but, independently of sud- den or casual aggravations, life is ultimately endangered by advancing emaciation and general disorder. Treatment consists in maintaining a Fig. 320. gently open state of the bowels, mitigating the painful symptoms in the bowel and neighbourhood by suitable remedies, and gradually obtainino- dilatation of the former at the contracted part by a cautious use of bouo-ies • not failing to remember that the cure is not by mechanical dilatation^ nor by inflammatory access, but by gradual absorption of the submucous abnormal product. The best form of this instrument is that made of ela,stic material, pliable, smooth, yet dense enough to resist circular com- pression. Having been introduced gently, it is withdrawn at once. The Fig. 320. Rectum opened lateraUy ; shewing stricture of the bowel at the ordinarv site. ^