958 LUMBAR AND PSOAS ABSCESS. sinus leading from it gradually contract, with or without dischai-ge of fragments of dead bone, and a cure by cicatricial consolidation gradually ensues, Treatment consists in affording absolute rest to the part, by confine- ment to the recumbent, or better still, to the prone posture. In fact the prone couch, employed constantly, day and night, will be found in most cases a great assistance in treatment; becoming, after a time, not only not irksome, but absolutely agreeable to the patient; especially when so managed, in the case of children, as to avoid, as far as possible even the very appearance of restraint. In all cases, mechanical adjust ment of the distorted spine by force, or by the use of apparatus, is manifestly at variance with both surgery and sense. At the same time every attention must be paid to the general health, with long continued administration of cod-liver oil. In the strumous cases, especially in children, there is no advantage to be obtained from the use of active counter-irritation, which sometimes might even threaten to accelerate the fatal issue by exhaustion. In such patients, we are to content our- selves with rest and general management, with a gloomy prognosis. In adults, the actual cautery is only serviceable at the commencement of the disease. When pain and other symptoms indicate the presence of acute inflammatory change, and when suppuration has occurred, its em- ployment only hurries on the fatal issue. Caries of the two upper cervical vertebrse and occipital condyles, is more common in adults than in children. It commences in the same mannner, and is of the same nature, as the disease just described. In speaking of affections of the neck, we have already considered its symp- toms, progress, and treatment. Lumbar, Psoas, and Iliac Abscess. By Lumbar Abscess is understood a chronic collection of matter pointing somewhere in the loins, usually to one side of the spiual column. It sometimes originates wholly in the soft parts. More fre- quently it is the result of caries of the dorsal vertebrae. A¥hen this is the case, it is preceded by the symptoms of Pott's disease of the spine, with or without the existence of the characteristic acute angular curva- ture. It tends most commonly to form in those patients who have early and long been confined to the recumbent posture. When the collection of matter is connected with disease of the lower dorsal or lumbar ver- tebrae—or when its source is even higher, in patients who have been able to move about throughout the antecedent progress of the disease—it usually points in the groin, having descended along the course of the psoas muscle on one or both sides. The affection is then termed Psoas Abscess ; and it, too, may occasionally be found unconnected with disease of bone. When the matter, situated in the lumbar region, or in the groin above Poupart's ligament {Iliac abscess), makes its way to the surface, it has to perforate both muscular texture and dense fasciae; the aperture of communication between the deeper collection and the subcutaneous abscess is usually, therefore, comparatively small; from which cii'cum- stance, either after, but more commonly before evacuation, the swelhiig