644 AFFECTIONS OF THE CEANIUM. this, tlmn to constitute a disease in itself. And the predisposing vices of system are—scrofula in the young, and syiiliilis, or mercurio-syphiliH, in the adult. Treatment, accordingly, is chiefly constitutional. Ix)cally, the diseased structure, if exposed, may be removed by the gouge, or by escharotics—chloride of zinc, or red oxide of mercury. But such opera- tive interference is rarely needed ; as Nature is provident in this matter, and herself effects the necessary clearance ; the useless parts coming away spontaneously, as small sequestra. And such spontaneous evolution of the disease may be very materially assisted, by employing counter-irriUition over the surrounding surface, and administering internally iodide of potassium and cod-Hver oil. If the whole thickness of the cranium be involved, there is of course the additional danger of dura-matral involve- ment ; and precaution requires to be exercised accordingly. Sometimes, unfortunately, a triumvirate of scrofula, syphihs, and mercurialism reigns in the system of the miserable patient; and then, as can readily be un-i derstood, the local affection proves particularly intractable. Necrosis may involve the whole thickness of the skull (Fig. 234,; p. 616), or affect the outer or inner tables separately; the result o£i injury, or commencing idiopathically—usually the former. Then, z&\ already stated, there is risk to life by purulent accumulation between theij bone and dura mater ; and, if no external aperture already exist—as bj fracture—the use of the trephine may be demanded. The opportunitie for such operative interference are rare, however, as contrasted with brilliant successes of Pott and others in former times ; and we shoulc be very sure of our diagnosis before resorting to a measure which thd experience of Hving surgeons renders of very doubtful expediency. Exfoliation, or death of the external portion, is more frequent complete necrosis ; the result either of external injury, or of chror idiopathic pericranitis. The usual course of superficial necrosis is foi| lowed, here as elsewhere. Ordinarily, we wait patiently spontaneo^ separation, and then remove the sequestrum. Sometimes, however, whe detachment is tedious, acceleration may be effected by the application i escharotics. And sometimes it is necessary to interfere and forcibly eleva the dead portion; which, though separated from the hard textures, yet confined by soft granulating structures around; or which, ori^ constituting a portion of the internal table, only communicates with surface through an aperture in the external table. In no form of necrosis of the cranium does the ordinary formation i cortical and substitute bone occur. And how provident such an arrang ment is, at once becomes apparent, when we consider what would be inevitable consequence of new bone bulging inwards on the dura mat If the sequestrum have been superficial, healing is effected by a depress^ cicatrix, as after simple ulcer of bone. When the whole thickness 11 perished, atonement is made for the deficiency, as after the operation i trephining. As in the case of ulceration, many examples of exfohation of f cranium are dependent on the mercurio-syphilitic vice of system; s| require constitutional treatment accordingly. In connection Avith the traumatic form, it is well to remember detachmejit of the periosteum—even rudely and with some bruisingij