VARIETIES IN LITHOTOMY. 1101 some thcan dangerous. The urethra will most probably be found at fault —obstructed in some part of its course by former stricture, or by recent swelling ; and the catheter or bougie has to be used accordingly. After due clearance of this canal, tlio perineal fistula will probably close. If not, it is to be treated as obstinate fistulto usually are j by application of a hot wire, at long intervals. Rectal Fistula sometimes results, by wound of the bowel at the time of the operation; or it may be caused more remotely by ulceration. The aperture may close, with the rest of the wound. But not improbably it remains open ; fjeces finding their way upwards into the track of the general wound, and urine passing into the rectum. Such a casualty is obviated by care, during the operation, in interposing the left fore-finger between the knife and the bowel, and always using the former most cautiously. Treatment consists in dividing the coats of the bowel up to the aperture, as in fistula in ano ; but this is not done at once ; au opportunity is first afforded for spontaneous closure. Such are the more important and ordinary dangers and difficulties which attend this operation. We are constantly liable to meet with others, however, which can scarcely be brought under any categorical arrangement; and yet for them the surgeon must be at all times pre- pared. The operation of lithotomy, in itself difficult, beset with many dan- gers, and implicating important parts, cannot be expected to prove very highly successful, even in the most skilful hands. The average propor- tion of deaths, hitherto—in the general practice of surgery—may per- haps be stated at one in five or six.* But as our science and art advance, it is to be hoped that the result will rise proportionally. Some indi- vidual operators have attained to pre-eminent success in this department; a pre-eminence apparently due, partly to operative dexterity and skill, partly to careful and judicious treatment both before and after the opera- tion, partly to a careful selection of cases. The age of the patient has much to do with the prognosis. In childhood, recovery is the rule, death the exception. And the hale old man is more favourably situated than the robust and young adult. As a general rule, however, the chances of recovery diminish with increase of age—as well as with in- crease of size in the stone.f Varieties in Lithotomy. In young children, the operation may be done with a common scalpel. And it is essential to remember that in them the bladder rises compara- tively high. The rectum is then the predominant viscus of the pelvis ; and great care must be taken accordingly not to injure it by the knife. The patient may be exempted from deligation ; held firmly on the table or upon an assistant's knee. The Bilateral Operation.—When the stone is known or suspected to be of large size—too large to pass through the ordinary single wound of the prostate, but not too large to pass through the outlet of the pelvis * In, a recent table the average is stated as 1 in 6.62. Lancet, No. 1534, p. 71. t Vide Monthly Journal, Nov. 1847, pp- 325 and 326.