653 HORDEOLUM. dition of the general system ; and to tluit the treatment mnst be mainly directed. Not imfrequently, the constitutional vice will be found of the scrofulous character. If pain, heat, i-edness, and other ordinary charac- teristics of the inflammatory process exist at all prominently, blood is to be taken sparingly from the part, by scarification of the conjunctiva, or by leeches at the inner canthus. Tor a few days afterwards, fomenta- tions, medicated or not, are to be applied. Then stimulants are used; such as solutions of zinc, or nitrate of silver; the ung : nitratis hydrar- cryri diluted; or an ointment containing the iodide of mercury. In obstinate cases, counter-irritation is sometimes useful; and this is best effected by the application of blisters beliind the ears. In children, the state of the gums and teeth must be looked to. In most cases, the ap- plication of nitrate of silver to the external surface of the margin of the lids, and the smearing on of oxide of zinc ointment within the line of the eyelashes, with cleanliness and good food, is all that is required to iirrest the affection at its commencement. An advanced form of tliis chronic affection of the eyelids is some- times termed Lippitudo. The ciliary margins are red, tliickened, everted, and denuded of hair; and the eye seems to be surrounded by an angry red circle. The general expression is consequently very unpleasing; and the patient's discomfort is also great. Local and general alteratives are pre-eminently required ; but they often fail to prove quite satisfac- tory. Stimulants applied to the parts are useful; such as pencilling the lids with a solution of nitrate of silver, and the like. In such cases, where the puncta are everted, and Stillicidiiim lachry- marum exists, the slitting up of the lachrymal canaliculus, in the lower hd, as far as the sac, should be had recourse to; after which the parts ! become gradually restored to their normal condition, and require no i apphcation of any kind. Not unfrequently, ophthalmia tarsi is but a part of a more general I affection of the eye, of a strumous or gouty character. Hordeolurn, mid other Swellings. By Hordeolum, or Stye, is meant a circumscribed inflammatory swel- ling, which may either remain of an indolent and indm-ated character, •n- advance to suppuration. In the latter case, discharge of matter takes place, and discussion slowly follows. Very frequently the affection ori- ^.^inates in a Meibomian follicle, and resembles an ordinary pimple. The follicle is obstructed, and its contents accumulate ; an inflammatory pro- is then kindled in the perverted part, suppuration takes place, and 0 enlarged follicle becomes the seat of a small acute abscess. This ■ ly be recognised to be the course of the affection, by everting the lid 'luring the early stage, when on the inner side of the cartilage the yellow line of the distended foUicle will be seen. By puncturing this, a single 'irop of matter escapes, the irritation subsides, and all the tardy progress and pam of the stye, when left to itself, will be averted. Here, too, the general health will be found amiss; and pm-gatives, alteratives, with regulation of diet, will probably be required. Wliilo e swelling is nascent, fomentation and water-dressing are suitable.