THE MERCUKIAL TllEATMENT. 1188 tlie remedy may be be given in various different forms, simple or com- bined : the choice being directed by the rapidity of effect desired, the avoidance of gastro-intcstinal irritation, the idiosyncrasies of the patient, and, to a certain extent, by tlie stage at which the disease has arrived. In the latter plan of introducmg the remedy into the sj^stem, two different modes may be adopted—inunction, and the vapour bath. By most practitioners the administration of mercurials by the mouth, instead of by cutaneous absorption, is preferred; because by the former the desired degree of physiological effect is more certainly attained and i*egulated, and because the remedy can be continued with less trouble, less annoyance from filth, and with less obstruction to the every-day life of the patient. The common forms of mercurials in use are calomel, Plummcr's pill, blue pill, mercurial ointment and soap pill, grey powder— the protoiodide, biniodide, and bichloride of mercury. These may either be administered alone, or in combination with each other, or with some tonic adjuvant; or with a corrigent, in the shape of opium, hyoscyamus, or belladonna, should griping or purging attend upon the use of the simple remedy. The blue pill, the protoiodide, or the bichloride, will usually, however, be preferred to any of the others, having less tendency to induce sudden salivation or disagreeable effects upon the system gene- rally. In cases of severe nyctalcopic pains, where rest has been denied for nights together—and in cases of iritis, choroiditis, or retinitis—calomel covered with a suitably corrigent quantity of opium or morphia will generally be selected. In young children, again, grey powder will be found more convenient, as it can be administered in articles of food without the knowledge of the patient. The internal administration, it is usually acknowledged, should cer- tainly be continued, if employed at all, until all the syphilitic symptoms upon the surface cease. Opinious differ, however, very much as to the length of time after that effect has been attained, during which the use of the remedy should be prolonged. By Eicord, who prefers the proto- iodide of mercury, the dose of one grain every evening after food is at first taken. When this causes griping, a half-grain dose night and morning may be substituted; or an opiate is given with the pill at night If at the end of the first week no physiological effects manifest themselves, the dose is increased; and thus the treatment is continued till the gums become tender. That point being attained, the effect is diminished if need be, or continued, but on no accomit permitted to increase. K sudden irritation of the gums or system is produced, the effects must be allowed to subside before the remedy is again commenced. He does not however discontinue the mercurial treatment, when all the cuta- neous symptoms have disappeared; for this he believes exposes his patient to the return of other symptoms of the diathesis. Neither does he adopt the rule of Dupuytren, to continue the treatment for as much .longer. He finds, so far as mercurial treatment is concerned, that the daily dose or doses which suffice to influence the symptoms, and to produce a gentle physiological effect after they have ceased, must be continued for six months. After this, the iodide of potassium, as a preventive to the more distant affections of the diathesis, should be employed for three months. And by means of such a practical standard