1041 FISTULA IN ANO. rhoids ; or aii extension of tlio inflammatoiy process from a contiguous part. In acute cases, the symptoms are very severe. The part is somewhat swoln, and most exquisitely painful; the sphincter and levator ani act spasmodically, and each movement aggravates pain to torture ; intense burning heat is complained of; a gelatinous discharge like currant jelly passes away, with painful tenesmus, when the patient responds to the frequently repeated calls to stool; or, in intense cases, the heat is at first dry as well as burning ; the constitution suffers severely by fever. The ui'inary organs sympathize j there is painful micturition ; and not unfre- quently strangury, or even actual retention, occurs. The progress and results vary. Eesolution may take place, with copious mucous discharge —perhaps with hemorrhage. Or the discharge becomes purulent, coming from the mucous coat; and resolution is both slow and incomplete. Or ulceration may take place ; superficial and broad, limited to the mucous lining; or cu'cumscribed and perforating, causing an aperture into the areolar tissue without, where fresh abscess forms, and fistula results, or sloughing even may occur. Or, the affection proving of a minor but per- sistent nature, plastic product takes place in all the coats, but more especi- ally beneath the mucous ; and simple organic stricture is established. Such being the risks of an advanced or obstinate inflammatory process in the rectum, treatment comes to be regarded as important; early and effectual, to anticipate evil. In the first instance, the cause is to be ascertained—and, if possible, removed; foreign bodies, for example, will be taken away, and ascarides expelled. The recumbent posture is enjoined, and blood taken by leeching. No purgatives are given—but gentle enemata, if necessary. To allay spasm, and to soothe the sympathetic irritation under which the urinary organs gene- rally suffer, opium is useful; in ordinary doses by the mouth ; and largely applied to the part in the form of inunction, enema, or supposi- tory—with or without belladonna. Fomentation can scarcely be applied too hot or too sedulously. In idiopathic cases, accompanied by dysen- teric symptoms, ipecacuan, in doses ranging from five grains to a scruple, given at bedtime, and followed by large doses of morphia or Battley's solution, will often act like a charm. Fistula in Am. By this is understood a fistula, or sinus, by the side of the rectum, opening externally on the nates by one or many apertures; sometimes without any communication with the bowel, and then termed Blind External fistula; occasionally communicating with the bowel, without an external opening—Blind Internal fistula; usually having one internal aperture communicating with the external apertures, and then said to be Complete fistula. In the complete form, which is by far the most frequent, there is discharge of purulent matter by the fistulous tract; flatus also escapes, and the thinner faeculent matters. There is heat and much discomfort, often pain, increased by spasms of the sphincter; not unfrequently aggravations take place by recurrence of in- flammatory attacks ; and usually the general health is more or less under- mined. Healing is prevented by at least three ciixumstances; the fistulous 3x