SYPHILITIC FEVER. 1166 any cutaneous aflfection. The deranged state of system included under the term chloro-ancemia is generally indicated by a sallow appearance of the countenance, more or less emaciation, a sense of malaise, lassitude, muscular debility and headach, along with palpitation and disturbance of vision, sometimes with bruit de souffle accompanying the first sound of the heart, audible both in the cardiac region and along the course of the blood-vessels in the neck, and sometimes with oedema of the lower extremities, and a tendency to epistaxis. That tliis condition is really due to a deranged state of the blood, and therefore accompanied by a general disorder of the blood-forming glands, is proved by the analysis of that fluid made by M. Grassl* From this it appears that the propor- tion of red blood-corpuscles is diminished, while the white corpuscles and albumen are relatively increased. This condition is only a tempo- rary one, however ; usually passing off within a brief period, and in most instances not again appearing. SypMlitic Fever.—Although this symptom is recognised by most experienced authorities, it has been denied by others. It certainly is not of constant occurrence, but is frequently met with in patients who have not been subjected to treatment, usually commencing about ten days or a fortnight before the first manifestation of the cutaneous eruptions. When these appear, the febrile symptoms usually, though not constantly, pass off. The febrile reaction is generally ushered in by a shivering fit. Only one such attack may occur ; sometimes, however, the fever assumes a regular or irregular periodicity, and the regularity may be so complete, as to render it hable to be mistaken for a quotidian or tertian ague. It is usually after such disturbance that manifest gastro-hepatic derangement occurs, attended by diminution of the appetite for food, a foul tongue, a sense of nausea, and even diarrhoea. Headach is also a prominent symptom j sometimes affecting the occipital and cervical regions, sometimes the forehead; sometimes diffused over the whole cra- nium, at other times apparently of a neuralgic character, and affecting the supra-orbital or infra-orbital branches of the fifth nerve, on one or both sides. The osteocopic pains, which are so troublesome a feature of the early stages of syphilis, affect usually the articular ends of the bones. These, Hke the headach, are generally most severe at night, when the patient is warm in bed ; subsiding towards morning, and absent duxing the day ; and the parts, though rarely manifesting any further indication of the inflammatory process, are usually tender on pressure or movement. Pain is also sometimes complained of when the shafts of the bones, espe- cially of the lower extremities, are firmly manipulated; and recently the existence of sternal pain has been noted as an early and well-marked symptom. Syphilitic Affections of the Cutaneous Surface. No one form of cutaneous affection is specially diagnostic of syi^hihs. Very various forms of eruption, as we shall see immediately, may occur during the progress of the infection ; nay, nearly every form of skin erup- tion may exist, at the same time, upon the surface of the body. The usual course of events, however, is for the eruptive affections to manifest * Eicord, Le9onsur la Chancre, 2d edit., p. 184.