346 FIMBRIATED SYNOVIAL DISEASE. for example, or that with a greater or less proportion of the unguentum rargyri. The whole articulation is then surrounded by long bands of adhesive plaster ; drawn with moderate and uniform tightness, so as to support, and firmly yet vmiformly compress the parts, without producing absolute pain or uneasiness. Above all, splints are applied, to secure total immunity of motion ; and they may be of leather, of wire, of paste- board, or of wood—the first usually the most suitable. When this dressing has become loose, from subsidence of the swelling—as usually happens in a few days, when first employed, progress thereafter becoming more gradual—it is reapplied, as often as may be necessary. But should fresh excitement occur in the joint, from any accidental cause, this system of dressing must be discontinued, until such excitement has been subdued by the usual means ; and when pressure is resumed, it should at first be very moderate. During treatment, the limb must be kept, or gradually brought into the most advantageous position for future usefulness ; particularly if from the nature, duration, and extent of the disease, there is reason to fear ultimate impairment of the joint's motion. Thus, by steady exten- sion with splints, the knee-joint may be brought into nearly a straight position, so that it shall be serviceable in progression; and the elbow may be bent so as to be convenient for prehension. By prudent yet persevering friction, and occasional passive motion, these desirable changes may be greatly facilitated. But all such alterations of stiffened limbs must be proceeded with very cautiously; otherwise, they may occasion undue excitement, and consequent renewal of the disease. The Fimbriated Synovial Membrane.—This affection does not always require surgical interference; indeed, in its slighter forms, it may be considered as a mere variety of the normal condition. According to Mr. Eainey, those parts of a joint, theca, or bursa, least exposed to pressure, are provided with a peculiar disposition of the synovial ap- paratus. Loops of capillaries, of various degrees of complexity, project into the joint, covered by synovial membrane, disposed in the form of "sacculi" or villi. "From the sacculi enclosing the capillaries, numer- ous other sacculi, into which no capillaries enter, proceed : these are of various forms and sizes, but generally they are attached to the primitive sacculus by an extremely long and slender filament of fibrous tissue, re- sembling the petiole of a leaf, the secondary sacculus resembling its expansion. Sometimes there are several series of th-ese sacculi attached one series to another, exhibiting an arborescent appearance ; but in every instance the secondary sacculi are extra-vascular."* These fringes of synovial membrane, though long known to ana- tomists, have received too little attention in connection with morbid conditions. It is nearly certain that the disease now under considera- tion consists in the mere hypertrophy of these; and in some cases they appear to become the seat of abnormal fibro-cartilaginous or bony tissue. According to Mr. Eainey {loc. cil), it is by the detachment of them when thus transformed, from rupture of their narrow pedicles, that many of the loose bodies in joints, hereafter to be noticed, are produced. * Monthly Jour. May 1849, p. 747 ; Quain and Sharpey's Anat. Introd. p. cclxxiii. .