1155 PHAGEDENIC AND SLOUGHING SOEES. As the disease advances unchecked, constitutional disturbance in- creases proportionally ; and this, becoming decidedly typhoid, may prove fatal Or it may be assisted by hemorrhage. Moderate and sponta- neous loss of blood, liowever, may have an opposite effect, in the less urgent cases ; occurring in quantity sufficient merely to affect the part; and not to such an extent as to depress the system. In most cases, a fatal issue may be avoided; but, in many, serious mutilation is inevi- table. Such destructive results are best marked in the case of chronic serpiginous ulceration—specially liable to occur as a complication of the specific bubo of the soft chancre—extending down the thigh over the anterior and lateral surface of the abdomen and flank, and advancing at one part while perhaps it heals at another. The edges of this serpiginous variety are for the most part thin, livid, and oedematous, and so exten- sively undermined that they fall down upon the excavated surface, and conceal the margin where the ulceration is extending. This undermined edge can sometimes be raised on a probe, and folded back upon the sound skin ; usually presenting a very irregular margin, perforated here and there by the ulceration from beneath, and liable, under a sudden exacerbation, to perish piecemeal in the form of a slough. The disease, fortunately, is comparatively rare as an epidemic ; and, when it occurs as such, is chiefly found in maritime towns, where by sailors and the lowest class of prostitutes sexual vice is extravagantly perpetrated.* To change the character of chronic phagedsena, no local application is so powerful as the fluid nitrate of mercury, diluted, so as to have an alterative rather than an escharotic effect; and a strong solution of sul- phate of copper has also beneficial influence, applied to the surface by means of a hair pencil once in two or three days. The lotion formed of nitric acid, of chlorinated soda, or Condy's fluid sufficiently diluted, has a material influence in checking progress, in diminishing foetor, and acting as a corrective. But nothing is at once so efficient, and yet so comparatively painless in its application, as the solution of the tartarized iron—of the strength of half an ounce of the salt to eight ounces of water. When the presence of indurated glands in the groin indicate that the sore has been originally of the indurated species, the use of the more powerful caustics will not be followed by the same satisfactory effects as in cases of phagedsenic soft chancres. The primse vise are attended to ; regimen is antiphlogistic j warm bathing is useful; strict rest is enjoined; and iron tonics are administered frequently, in such doses as the stomach wiU bear. Acute phagedjena, the sloughing phagedsena, and the sloughing sore, * " Most of the young creatures who are brought from that genteel place, Swan- alley, afflicted with phagedsenic ulceration, have had very little wholesome food ; they are generally kept by Jews and Jewesses, who give them plenty of gin, though but little proper nourishment; they are half-starved, and, more or less, in a conti- nued state of excitement and intoxication, having connection with Lascars, and other dirty foreign seamen, as many times in the day as there are hours. In this manner, their constitutions must soon get into a very disadvantageous state for the favourable progress of any disease whatever ; and we cannot wonder that their im- paired and imperfectly developed frames, their course of life, and uncleanliness, should promote phagedpcnic ulceration, and give it an unusually severe character." —S. COOT'KR.