CHAPTER XL AFFECTIONS OF THE INTEGUMENT, Erythema. By this term is meant an inflammatory process, of a low grade, and tending to spread by continuity, occurring in tlie mere surface of the in- tegument ; chiefly resident in the rete vasculosum cutis. The Si/mpfoms are heat, pain, and tingling in the part; a bright red blush; sometimes marked by an abrupt and distinct border, sometimes gradually lost by diffusion; more or less dryness, by interruption to normal exhalation; a very sHght tumescence of the red surface, scarcely appreciable by the eye, yet capable of being distinctly felt by the finger lightly aj)plied; increase in susceptibility of external impressions in general; and tenderness on pressure, which produces transient whiteness, with slight as well as temporary depression. These symptoms, having continued for a day or two, may simply decline ; the part becoming gra- dually less swoln, red, tender, and painful, and resuming its wonted function. Numerous scales of cuticle become detached, and fall away; and the result is usually termed Eesolution, by desquamation. Or, less frequently, vesication occurs ; the vesicles forming slowly, and to no great extent; fiUed with a watery straw-coloured serum; either simply drying, or bursting and then crusting over; the uneasy feelings, there- after, gradually subsiding; and desquamation again constituting the last part of the process of cure. The constitutional symptoms may precede or accompany. Sometimes they are sthenic, and of the inflammatoiy type; slight and transient; the consequence of the local disorder. Some- times they are of the form of constitutional irritation ; preceding rather • than accompanying; and oftener the cause than the effect of the local 1 ailment. The Cause may be either local or constitutional; external or internal , Often it is external, and local; a puncture of the finger, for example, in i dissecting, nursing, washing; probably with a state of system not ill- - disposed towards the assumption of morbid change. The injured part i undergoes the inflammatory process ; and this, instead of remaining of a i circumscribed character, spreads by continuity. The constitutional dis- order is then of secondary occurrence; shght, of the inflammatory type, and soon passing away. Or the cause may be internal, and constitutional The primoB vias are sadly disordered; there is much bilious derangement, and serious febrile disturbance; during the progress of this febrile condition, an ery- thema breaks out on some part of the surface, spreading more or less;; and, on its appearance, the general disorder undergoes a marked diminu-