ABSCESS OF THE CORNKA. 685 Abscess of the Cornea. Matter, as vro have seen, may form 'between tlie layers of the cornea ; ;i result of comeitis. If it collect at the lower part, the accumulation usually assumes a crescentic form; resembling the white semilunar mark at the root of the nail; and hence such an appearance has been termed Oni/.r. But it may be produced elsewhere; in the form of dots or points, which either may remain separate, or may unite with each other hv increase and extension until the whole cornea becomes involved, and yellow creamy opacity obscures the view of the iris. The fluid seems ,1 be pm-ulent. It may, however, be a less advanced inflammatory de- velopment of the corneal structures. Antiphlogistics, if inadvisable in the acutely-progressive keratitis, -re still more injurious now that it has terminated in suppuration. Iron .ouics, good food, belladonna lotion, and atropine to dilate the pupils, should be employed, while counter-irritation should be repeated so as ) keep up a decided effect. In many cases, absorption of the inflam- matory product and partial restoration of the cornea will occur. Mer- curials do no good. Opiates, especially hyoscyamus internally, with elladonna or chloroform liniment applied to the temple, will usually be quired to soothe pain. Failing absorption, one of tliree events may ccur. The small collection may spontaneously discharge itself inter- aUy, through the posterior elastic lamina, into the aqueous humour, ormiag an hyjjopion ; or it may escape externally, when an ulcer will be reduced; or first the one and then the other of these results may ensue. en such a perforation occurs, the aqueous humour of course escapes, e iris prolapses ; and when the aperture cicatrizes, the iiis is retained in he cicatrix. An artificial opening may be made for its external evacua- on; but in the greater number of cases, the artificial opening is with- eld, in the hope that disappearance by absorption may take place ; d the frequency with which this result does occur, has led to a uspicion that the fluid is not truly purulent. If, however, the fluid e of considerable quantity, causing tension in the part, and painful ptoms of an aggravated character, the abscess may be benefic- ly opened with the point of an extraction knife. The matter is dis- harged, and an ulcer remains, which heals readily. In some cases when he pain is excruciating, and uninfluenced by treatment, and the puru- ent collection marginal and extending, not only may the collection of atter be advantageously evacuated by puncture, but the aqueous humour ay also be permitted to escape, the puncture being carried more deeply. (VTiere perforation spontaneously occurs, the pain and acute symptoms uhside; and a like result generally follows this safe imitation of the atural process. "When the abscess is central, however, such puncture ould he avoided. Ulcer of the Cornea. Ulcers may be caused by paralysis of the fifth nerve, by inanition, or y exhausting disease elsewliere ; but are commonly the result of keratitis. eir origin may be from without, when the superficial layers of the oraea are chiefly affected; and then the commencement is with super-