97 TREATMENT OF SINUS. passed forcibly beneath sound fascia, or through Lntcrmuscular tissue previously unbroken; and, on withdrawal of the probe, the knife has followed in the artificial track, making a cruel wound where no wound was requii'ed. Treatment of Sinus.—We are first to inquire whether there exist a cause whereby complete closure of the abscess has been prevented. Such will not imfi-equently be found. It may consist of foreign matter lodged in the part; introduced from without—and perhaps the cause of the original abscess, as well as of this subsequent degeneration ; or it may be a decayed portion of the frame itself—as dead portions of bone, tendon, or fascia; or it may be formed by perversion of a normal secretion—as salivary, irrinary, and intestinal concretions, escaped from their original site. If lodgment of such matters have induced the original inflamma- tory disturbance, it is not unlikely that they may escape along with the fijst contents of the abscess, when this is freely opened, whether artifi- cially or by Nature. For such is the mode which she adopts for their extrusion ; matter is formed around them, and with this they are floated out, as it were, through the evacuating aperture. But the extrusion may either fail altogether, or be but imperfectly performed; and any foreign body, remaining impacted in the part, will not fail to prevent entire con- traction of the open abscess; so establishing the condition of sinus. When such palpable cause can be found, accounting for the origin and continuance of this morbid state, it is in the first instance to be removed. In efifecting this, by probe, forceps, or scoop, some little injury is neces- sarily inflicted on the parietes of the canal; they bleed, are painful, and inflame ; and the inflammatory process may be in such degree as to pro- mote active granulation. After extraction of the foreign matter, there- fore, it is well to wait a little j for this act may of itseK prove sufiicient to establish a cure. If not, stimulating injection may afford the aid required, in the way formerly mentioned. Still failing, pressure is had recourse to ; not carelessly applied, but with a little management, suited to the end to be obtained. In the first place, we presume that the extent and form of the sinus, or sinuses, have been accurately ascertained. Over the track is applied a well- fitting firm compress ; retained by bandaging, so as to make direct and tolerably severe pressure on the whole of the secreting surface—severe because intended to irritate the pyogenic membrane. The desired in- flammatory result having been obtained, pressure is removed, until the destructive process subside into that of repair. Then it is reapplied and continued, but with much less intensity; the object being merely to afford support to the granulating surface, and prevent accumulative retention of purulent fluid. Should pressure fail—as it may do, the part being so dull as not sufl&ciently to obey the stimulus—then a more severe remedy awaits us ; incision. Again supposing the probe to have been carefuUy and skilfully employed, it is followed by a probe-pointed bistoury ; whereby the sinus is to be laid open. Usually it is superficial, and consequently not in the near neighbourhood of important parts ; hence such wounds, even when extensive, are seldom attended with troublesome hemorrhage. Should blood-vessels, or other important textures, lie in the way, they are of II