TREATMENT OF SCROFULA. 207 Wcord; but thoir reputation lias still to be made. Conium is by many- asserted to be most useful, more especially during the progress of ulcera- tion; exhibited in the form of tincture. Cod-liver oil is invaluable. Benefit may be to some extent due to the proportion of iodine it contains. But besides—in scrofula, it has been said that " the nitrogenized elements of nutrition are in excess ; the evacuations even become albuminous, and are glairy like white of egg j gradually the albuminous principle of the blood becomes predominant; at the same time the fatty or carbonized principle disappears, and emaciation takes place ; at length albumen is deposited in the textures, constituting tubercular deposits. The whole of this process is evidently one of perverted nutrition j and that this is owing to the absence of the carbonized or oleaginous elements, and an excess of the nitrogenized or albuminous, must be evident. The indication of cure then, under such circumstances, must be to introduce into the system the first named principle, namely, fluid fat, or oil, in order that it may com- bine with the excess of albumen, and constitute a healthy blastema for the support of nutrition."* By whatever theory its action is explained, there is no denying the fact, that this medicine is of much virtue in scrofulous disease; alleviating the symptoms, fattening the patient, and improving the general tone of system. To all ages it is suitable, but especially to the young; given in such doses as the stomach will bear, and generally found to sit most lightly when taken shortly after meals. Sometimes it causes nausea, with loss of appetite; and then it must be discontinued, at least for a time ; the syrup of the iodide of iron, with cream, glycerine, or some other substitute, being given meanwhile. The local treatment varies, according to the stage of advancement. "While the tubercle is yet recent, and the enlargement external, chronic, and indolent, it is usually our object to effect discussion. The prepara- tions of iodine are used both externally and internally, with this view, as in the case of chronic abscess; and the form of ointment, applied by friction, is not objectionable here, inasmuch as there is less risk of over-stimulation being thereby induced. Discussion having failed, sup- puration is to be sought for rather than dreaded; and, if possible, it is made to occur within the tuberculated part, in order that full disinte- gration and removal of the morbid product may ensue. But, in scrofulous patients, small abscesses not unfrequently form, unconnected with tubercular change. These are amenable to ordinary rules of treatment; and when they are situated in a part habitually exposed, as the face or neck, a small opening should be very early made, so as to limit suppuration, favour contraction, and avoid the deformity of a large, irregular, and depressed cicatrix. Usually, suppuration is secondary to the tuberculous formation; the abscess is of a chronic nature even from the first, and approaches the surface slowly, with a broad front, enlarging almost equally in all direc- tions. If stm anxious to avoid an unseemly mark, an early and minute opening may be made ; but the result is lilcely to be only partially suc- cessful ^ It is better practice to delay evacuation—meanwhile, perhaps, stimulating the part by blisters—until the skin has been thinned, and * Bennett, on Cod Liver Oil, 1841. See, also, by same author, Eemarks on the treatment of Phthisis.—Monthly Journal, March 1850, p. 236, d seq.