LITHUllIA. 10C4 moat serious ; they denote a sthenic state of system, more frequently than the opposite condition. A trifling disordei- of digestion, as by casual error in diet, may cause a tolerably copious sediment; tlie pro- gi-ess of hectic, and the decline of inflammatory fever, are accompanied by plentiful deposit of red powder—termed lateritious, from its resem- blance to brick-dust. The gouty diathesis is marked by uric deposit. Habitual indulgence in much animal food, with deficiency of excrciise, and neglect to maintain a clean and efficient state of the skin, will not fail to establish it. It is obviously connected with climate—at least with locality ; the inhabitants of certain places suffering much more than others. It is also connected with age; prevailing most in childhood, and between the ages of forty and sixty. It is hereditary. It may follow injury of the kidney or its neighbourhood; congestion being pro- duced in the secreting organ. It would seem to depend proximately, either on an excess of uric acid being generated in the system—by decay of the effete organism, or by mal-digestion of food; or on the presence of a free acid—the muriatic, acetic, or lactic—which, combining with the base, frees the uric acid, and so leads to its precipitation. Or the causes may be stated in another way, as by Dr. G. Bird : 1. Waste of tissues more rapid than the supply; as in fever, rheumatism, etc. 2. Supply of nitrogen in the food, greater than is required for the re- paration of tissues; as by excessive indulgence in animal food, and by too little exercise. 3. Digestion insufficient to assimilate an ordinary and normal supply of food; as in dyspepsia. 4. Obstruction to the cutaneous outlet for nitrogenized excretion; by skin diseases, or other cause. 5. Congestion of the kidneys; following injury of the organs, or disease wherein they are affected by sympathy. Plainly, the treatment must vary according to the cause. In the fevers already mentioned, the deposit ceases as the constitutional symp- toms subside. In other cases, the treatment may be said to be twofold. By th.e exhibition of alkalies, with which the uric acid combines, soluble salts are formed, while at the same time—mainly perhaps by the vehicle in which the alkali is given—the aqueous portion of the urine is in- creased. And by attention to regimen, exercise, and skin—going more deeply into the matter—^we seek to rectify the depraved state of the digestive organs, on which the evil in the great majority of cases primarily depends. Both methods are of service; but the latter is obviously the more important. They are usually combined. Magnesia, soda, and potass may be given. The first may accumulate in the intestines ; and on this account is seldom prescribed, at least for any length of time. The phosphate of soda is both safe and useful. The cai-bonate is grate- ful, and quite efficient. But potass is usually preferred ; its m-ate being more soluble than that of soda. The bicarbonate is usually given, in half drachm doses; largely diluted; and it may be pleasantly combined with a few grains of citric acid. The best period for administration, probably, is about two hours after the principal meals—when alkalies are most wanted to neutralize the free acid of indigestion; and when at the same time digestion is so far advanced as to render it unlikely that this process shall be interfered with by the alkali. There are also the borate, citrate, and tartrate of potass—all available.