ADENITIS. 449 ■Resolution may occur; the process stopping short of suppuration ; and the part gradually recovering from the inflammatory change. Or the affection either originally or secondarily of a chronic form, may cease ; and yet resolution may not ensue; the part remaining indurated, and ahsorption taking place very tardily if at all. Or the process, acute, proceeds to suppuration, which is indicated by the ordinary signs ; some- times assuming the character of abscess, or of a chain of abscesses ; more frequently, perhaps, the matter is diffusely infiltrated, the general symp- toms becoming aggravated in consequence. Treatment is in the first instance antiphlogistic, but under the same restrictions as in the case of phlebitis. In addition to the ordinary means, of leecliing, rest, regimen, purging, etc., much relief is often obtained from the assiduous application of a hot and weak decoction of acetate of lead and opium (prepared by boiling) to the part affected. When sup- puration occurs, whether diffuse or limited, the matter should be evacu- ated by early and free incision. In the chronic form, threatening to leave induration, bhstering is advisable. In acute and aggravated examples, the same principles must guide as in the analogous case of phlebitis ; support of the constitution, mitigation of the symptoms, and hope in the system's effort at revulsion and recovery. In those cases in which the constitu- tional disorder is from the first asthenic, active antiphlogistics are never expedient. Not unfrequently, erysipelas, phlebitis, or even both, co-exist. Such addition renders the prognosis unfavourable ; and demands modification of treatment, to suit the circumstances of complication. Inflammatory swelling of the lymphatic ganglia—Adenitis — as already stated, attends the spread of angeioleucitis. But, besides, it often occurs independently of such preliminary disease; the result of irri- tation, either direct, or conveyed from a distant part, and connected or not with absorption of deleterious matter. Simple strain, or ulcer, or woimd of the foot, for example—as well as direct injury of the part itself—may induce acute inflammatory swelling of the inguinal glands ; and the same parts are quite as frequently affected in an inflammatory process, more troublesome if not more intense, from ulceration of the penis of a specific kind, accompanied by absorption of chancrous virus. In Adenitis the swelling is rapid, prominent, and very painful; at- tended with more or less constitutional disturbance, of the inflammatory type. The bulk mainly depends on infiltration of the parenchyma, or ordinary areolar tissue of the gland ; in wliich the inflammatory process would seem chiefly to reside. The conglomerated tubes themselves undergo change, such as usually results from acute inflammatory affection of that tissue; alteration of the coats, and of the secretion, sometimes coagu- lation and obstruction, which, if extensive and continued, may lead to im- portant oedema of the parts beneath. The infiltration of the parenchyma may be simple and plastic; soon disappearing, by absorption, on subsidence 0 the disease. Or suppuration takes place; and abscess forms, either in the substance of the glancl, or in the areolar tissue on its exterior. Or the ew product, continuing plastic, does not resolve on subsidence of the 2 G