763 SINUS OF THE CHEEK. so as to avoid injiuy to the portio dura nerve and the tomporo-maxillary artery, which Ue respectively to its anterior and inner aspects. Malig- nant formations, however, unless superficial, sliould uniformly he let alone; for in thoir case reproduction is certain, if any portion of the original growth, however sliglit, he permitted to remain ; and the extensive connection of tlie lymphatics in this region always excites suspicions of some deeper seated malignant disease. Enlargement of a single lym- phatic gland in tliis situation may simulate a tumour; hut its individual characters, its antecedents, and its accompaniments, will usually indicate sufficiently its nature and treatment. Sinus of the Qheek. Patients frequently present themselves under the following circum- stances. They are adolescents, or recently adult; and are more frequently female than male. Many months previously, an .abscess formed on the lower part of the cheek, over or beneath the body of the lower jaw; evacuation took place; a more or less copious discharge has continued ever since; and though many and various remedial means have been employed, cicatrization, or even marked amendment, has never been ohtained. There is a weak sinuous ulcer, with a pouting external surface; and the surrounding integuments are swoln and discoloured by passive congestion ; or, if the discharge is small in quantity, there is a puckered and retracted attempt at a cicatrix. In the great majority of such cases, if not in all, the exciting and retaining cause is to be found within the moutL Opposite, or nearly opposite, the affection of the cheek, a decayed tooth or stump, or a discoloured tooth with a dead fang, will he found, probably imbedded in a diseased gum. And on removal of these sources of irritation—and not until then—will the sinus and ulcer be brought to heal Without extraction of the offending tooth or teetb, the most energetic and sustained practice may be put in force against the cheek, without success. After extraction, heahng may occur even without any remedial means having been applied directly to the part. Salivai'y Fistula. In consequence of wound, abscess, or ulceration, the duct of the parotid gland may open externally on the cheek. And by outward discharge ■hrough the fistulous aperture, not only are deformity and inconvenience ccasioned, but also a serious loss is sustained of secretion valuable in the ^ rocesses of mastication and digestion. The principles on which a cure to be attempted are very simple ; namely, the estabhshment of an in- mal opening, by which the sahva may be poured into the mouth, and aved; and the shuttmg up of the external aperture whence this fluid as previously i-un to waste. To effect this in practice is, however, no "iy matter. Dilatation of the duct between the fistulous opening and i papillary aperture of the duct, opposite the second molar in the pper jaw, may sometunes suffice to effect the first of these indications, domg this, a foreign body, such as a barley corn, a bit of fish-bone, the hair of a tooth-brush, may perhaps be detected lying in the