39 THE CHRONIC INFLAMMATORY TROCESS. to indicate the peculiaiities of symptoms and results connected with the chronic form. Sijmptoms of the Chronic form.—The disease being both mild and gradual, the symptoms are comparatively little developed, and hence sometimes obscure. Eedness, swelling, pain, heat, are slight; and of the two last, sometimes there is almost nothing. Swelling, however, though at first sHght and slowly induced, ultimately becomes a prominent and most important feature. It is considerable in extent—for it has been of long continuance, and steadily, though slowly, increasing; dense and firui in character—consisting cliiefly of fibrinous and plastic results from the first, or the serous product, if present, having become absorbed ; and lasting—the new formations tending to permanency of stay by organiza- tion. There is seldom any notable degree of tension ; for, the increased cell-formations having taken place gradually, the parts have duly accom- modated themselves to their reception. Suppuration, ulceration, and gangrene, if attained to, are, like the process which preceded them, slow and gradual in their advance to completion j attended by the ordinary symptoms of such results, in a mitigated form. Eapid and tense swelling, with softening of texture, we saw to be characteristic of the acute form ; gradual enlargement, with induration, is characteristic of the chronic. The function of the part, however, is generally not less involved in the chronic than in the acute form, at least when a considerable part of an organ is affected. The constitutional symptoms are proportionally mild. Febrile dis- turbance may be so slight, as scarcely to be appreciated by either the patient or his attendant; and, when perceived, it may be both so obscm'ely marked and so transient, as to baffle or deceive in the effort of tracing it to its cause. The most prominent symptoms are :—want of refreshing sleep ; loss of appetite ; general emaciation ; change of colour, in the general surface, to a pale or dirty yellow; occasional flushes ; sensa- tion of cold, and frequent inclinations to sMver; impairment of strength, and a general feeling of uneasiness; the patient feels that he is ill, yet scarcely knows how or where. In the severer forms, the febrile condition is more marked, and partakes more or less of the inflammatory type :— headache, heat, frequent and hard pulse, dry skin, scanty urine, thirst, restlessness. Yet, the local disease remaining chronic, the fever never attains to the form of the truly inflammatory; it is less sthenic, less marked, less progressive, less continued. The tendency to remission, sometimes almost complete, is one of its most distinctive chai-acters; the period of exacerbation is evening, or the early part of the night: morn- ing that of remission, with or without perspiration. Sometimes the local disease itself deceptively assumes someAvhat of the remittent character ; seeming to have abated, or even ceased, during several days ; wlnle all the time it was steadily though stealtliily holding its ground— if not advancing. _ It should never be forgotten, that however slight and apparently trivial the constitutional symptoms of a chronic inflammatory process may be, yet, by their mere persistence, they are likely to exhaust the frame, and threaten even a fatal termination. The Results of the Chronic Inflammatory process are thus seen to