TREATMENT OF STRICTURE. 1209 ulceration—at the time perhaps widening the canal—is likely ultimately to lead to renewed and probably aggravated contraction, by puckering of the cicatrix. Besides, ulceration, to prove effectual on the submucous formation—the true cause of the stricture—must first penetrate and de- stroy the mucous membrane ; an event never desirable ; 3. In bad cases, the knife may be necessary to divide the contracted part; not, however, as a sole means of cure ; but materially to assist the bougie in afterwards establishing the normal condition of the part. To obtain the curative result, in ordinary cases, cautious management of the metallic bougie is now universally acknowledged to be the most suitable means. But, in the first instance, exploration is necessary ; to ascertain whether a stricture really exists or not j as also its nature, site, and extent. A metallic instrument should always be used for this purpose. Formerly one of wax was preferred, as less formidable to the patient, and because it was beKeved that its softened extremity would mould itself against the stricture, so as to produce an accurate image of the state of the urethra at the constricted part. The most con- venient kind of bougie is that manufactured of Berlin silver; the larger sizes hoUow, and consequently light, firmer than silver, yet possessing a smooth surface, and not subject to become roughened from rust as steel would be. The curve should be gradiial and slight—a segment of a large circle; and the set of instruments are arranged in a gradually ascending scale, from the smallest wire-like form and probe-pointed ex- tremity, to what is Kkely to fill the average canal in its normal state. The selected instrument is oiled, or smeared with cold cream. For pur- poses of exploration a large instrument is obviously not suitable ; neither is one of small size—for it is liable to catch a lacuna, and so to simulate stricture where there is none; or, passing through a stricture of no great tightness, it may lead to the belief that the canal is clear, while contrac- tion really does exist. One of the medium size is selected; and, having been warmed suitably, by the hand, is introduced cautiously. If obstructed, it is gently withdrawn a little, and again guided on; a fold of the urethra may have been in the way. If, however, still opposed, the existence of stricture may be fairly presumed ; and its site is noted, by observing the extent to which the instrument has passed, and by manipulating the course of the urethra. An instrument one or two sizes smaller is then taken and passed along the canal to the site of the stricture, where careful efforts are made to insinuate it along the contracted channel. Should it still prove too large, another and another, if need be, is employed, till the instrument is found which can be passed both through the stricture and onwards into the bladder. Having succeeded in this, some surgeons recommend that the instrument should be retained from a minute to half an hour, or more, according as the patient's feelings may indicate. This is not, however, usually desirable or safe ; and certainly, if sickness occur, or if much pain be felt, and on the increase, or if the patient express a decided wish for removal of the instrument, stating his belief that it is " hurting " him— it shoidd be withdrawn ; remembering that our object in the use of the bougie is not mechanically to stretch the canal, but to excite absorption of the morbid product in the submucous tissue. To attain as great an