535 MODE OF UNION. it may be couveiuoutly divided into the following stages:—1. Blood is extravasatod at the site of fracture; and, accumulating, distends the surrounding parts into a kind of pouch in which the fractured ends are laid ; and the cavity of this pouch is occupied by the extravasated blood, partly fluid, partly coagulated. The surrounding parts arc condensed ; and, obeying the stimulus of the injury and displacement, become more energetic in their circulation, in order to supply the unusual demand which is now beginning to be made on them, 2. The extravasated blood is absorbed; and the ends of the fractured bone also undergo alterations ; being deprived of their earthy matter to a great extent, by conversion into granulation tissue, and so prepared for their new circumstances. Plastic matter is formed from the walls of the pouch, from the ends of the bones, and from the periosteum which invests them; and this assumes the position which the extravasated blood occupied; the latter undergoing gradual absorption. This granulation tissue exists abundantly between the fractured ends of the bone, and in their interior. At the same time, a similar, though less copious change, is taking place in the soft tissues exterior to the pouch, whereby they are still further condensed. 3. After eight or ten days, the new plastic material passes into the transition state of fibrous tissue, fibro-cartilage, or even true cartilage. 4. The organized and transitional mass contracts, by interstitial absorption, increases in density, and gradually passes, by ossification of its connective tissue, into the condition of bone. 5. Ossification advances, from the periphery, commencing from the parent bone. Nodules of new osseous matter form on it, where in contact with the ruptured periosteum, by ossification of the granulation tissue ; and these ossified granulations seem to constitute the nucleus or base of the new bony structure which speedily surrounds the seat of fracture, Tor from these nuclei it is that the ossifi- cation advances, and a case of bone forms on the exterior of the new product; advancing from each fragment, and meeting near the centre of the space. Where the original periosteum is deficient, there is no corre- sponding hiatus in the new bone, as in the case of necrosis; for, as the ordinary soft tissues are not in a state of suppuration, the process of ossification is permitted to go on undisturbed. As ossification advances, the mass contracts more and more; ultimately forming a firm osseous ferrule, by which the fractured ends are tightly clasped, and the continuity of the bone apparently restored. This ossified mass is termed the Fro- vmonal Callus. And the period of its formation averages from four to six weeks. At the end of this time, the bone feels firm; for the fractured ends are tightly held together by the ferrule. Ossification between the ends of the fractured bone, in the case of a large bone such as the femur, IS not, however, yet accomplished. 6, The Definitive callus is that which 18 formed between the ends of the bone, and which constitutes the final medium of their incorporation. Its organization and ossification are effected by a more slow and gradual process than that of the provisional callus. By the definitive and permanent callus the ends are firmly fused together, and the fracture truly united; the medullary canal being obli- terated for the time being. In proportion as construction of the definitive jallus advances, the provisional gradually diminishes by absorption ; the latter being merely subservient to the former. The provisional callus,