1259 AFFECTIONS OF THE VULVA. circumstances, treatment consists in making a freo incision, evacuating the blood and coagula, and restraining hemorrhage by pressure; with or without stuffing of the woimd. In the case of accidental wound, risk by hemorrhage is great. If the tumour is small, it may cause no uneasiness ; and requires no treatment, except the use of cooling and discutient lotions, with rest. Wart^ Excrescences of the Vulva May be situated on the labia, nymphaa, or vestibulum ; or all these parts may be aifected at the same time. The growths may be of considerable size; and when numerous they distend the vulva. They may be of syphilitic origin, but frequently arise from other and simple causes. They are the source of much pain, irritation, and annoyance; and may produce a quantity of muco-purulent discharge, especially if seated on the mucous membrane. If small and recent, the application of nitrate of silver may disperse them j or they may be powdered with calomel and chalk. The larger may be removed by strong caustics, as potass, or the acids j but in most cases it is better to cut them off by scissors—subse- quent hemorrhage being checked by cold and styptics. The bulky growths, as already stated, may require a regular dissection for their removal. Occasionally the whole labia, nymphas, and clitoris become so hyper- trophied, in connection with venereal disease, as to require excision. In such cases, they generally assume the most irregular forms; sometimes presenting large or small openings, or honey-comb-like irregularities, without ulceration. Oozing Tumour of tJie Labium Is a rare disease. One or both labia may be affected. The part—hard, sulcated, and discharging a watery acrid fluid—is the seat of much pain and itching; and the neighbouring parts are irritated. Local treatment by caustics, iodine, astringent lotions, etc., combined with the use of laxative and alterative medicine, may be effectual in cuiing the com- plaint ; if not, the affected textures must be removed by the knife. But after all this, the disease is apt to recur. Pruritus of the Vulva Is a frequent accompaniment of pregnancy, and of disease in the rectum or vagina—especially leucorrhcea. It is more common in advanced life than in youth ; and is a cause of very great suffering. To some women it renders Hfe absolutely miserable. The skin of the parts is generally dry, and often has a rough and cracked appearance; sometimes it is indurated, and more than usually callous in ordinary sensation. Not unfrequently, there is a rush of small, inflaming, and excessively irritable papulse over the affected parts ; or there may be spots of clironic eczema, especially on the labia, or aphthous incrustation of the nymphte and vestibule. If there is any marked exciting cause, its removal will do much