TREATMENT OF STRICTUllE. bougie, of modiuui size, at tlio onlinary intervals, and retaining contact Avitli the stricture for some time ; expecting that, in this "way, "^"^^^^^^^^^^^^==5;-^ the desired diminution of abnormal product by absorption may advance, But, if excitement occur, tlie case be- comes urgent by retention of urine ; and then we are ^ forced to relieve the bladder. Then there are only three ways of affording relief; the stricture must be got through, or the urethra must be opened behind the constric- tion, or tho bladder must be punctured. A firm instrument, of suitable size, is patiently and gently used—remembering that by the inflammatory process the parts have had their lacera- bility much increased. For this purpose the steel probe-pointed catheter, recommended by Dr. P. H. Watson, will be found far more trustworthy than the small-sized silver instruments, whether uniform or probe-pointed, in common use. "With the aid of the hot bath, opiates, or, best of all, chloroform, we may succeed. But, if baffled in. this legitimate use of the instru- ment, we are not warranted in having recourse to force. It is better to cut than to bruise and tear ; it is better to make a clean woimd, through which urine may discharge itself inno- cuously, than to leave a bruised and torn sinus, in which infiltration can hardly fail to occur, with all its lamentable results. The patient, under chloroform, is put into the posi- tion suitable for Lithotomy, and the stricture staff of Mr. Syme having been carried down to the site of the obstruction, an incision is made in the central raph6, as formerly described, so as to expose the end of the staff sufficiently to enable the surgeon to introduce liis finger; by its aid he will then fre- quently succeed in passing the grooved instrument through the stricture, and thus secure the accurate division of the constricted portion of the canal. Should he fail in carrying on the staff, the incision in the mesial line should be extended backwards, cutting as deeply as the level of the urethra; and thus in most cases the canal will be at once opened, the dis- tended pouch which exists behind the stricture readily per- mitting the knife to enter it. Now the staff may be at once passed onwards to reach the finger which supports the sur- face of the stricture posteriorly. But should the surgeon fail in this, a grooved probe may be insinuated from behind ; and in the event of this not succeeding, an incision should be carried through the indurated tissue to the requisite depth in the course of the urethra, in the hope of opening the con- stricted portion of the canal. When the stricture is at the bulb, the urethra may very readily be opened in the mem- branous part, by passing the fore-finger of the left hand up the rectum, feeling for the tip of the prostate, and, in front of it, tho distended urethra. Then carrying a long straight bis- Fig. 341. Prohn -pointed Catheter.—P. H. Watson. 4 I