423 TREATMENT BY GALVANISM. Tu tying an aneurismal aiiory, no skill in ili(3 operation can alto- aethev avert risk—Of phlebitis ; lor tlie vein usually is in close apposi- tion with the artery, and must be exposed to the risk of injury.—Of ./iuu'rene; for impression on the limb's circulation is inevitably both and'sudden.—Of hemorrhage, above all; for the arteiy tied may be at the point of deligation more or less altered in structure, and conse- quently liable to the unfiivourable results of the consequent inflammatory chajigo. Pressure, unskilfully and rashly applied, is at least equally capable of causing these risks. But pressure, employed according to the principles now enjoined, in its modern revival, escapes them all. Let it be tried, therefore, in all cases suited to its use ; with such care in the usuig, in regard to both method and time, as shall, in the event of failure, leave no obstacle or drawback to the subsequent employment of liga- ture. Other methods of Cure. Cold has been applied continuously to the tumour; in the hope that contraction of the cyst and solidification of its contents might be thus favoured. The contemplated advantages, however, are not obtained; and danger by sloughing is probable. The insertion of a seton has been tried; and there is no need to repeat the experiment. The certainty of danger is not compensated by the probable advantage. TJie application of galvanism., by acupuncture, has produced good results in certain cases. This, method of cure was first proposed by Mr. B. PliiUips in 1832. Afterwards, it has been successfully prosecuted by MM. Petrequin, Ciniselli, Abeille, and others. The object is to produce at once both coagulation of the aneurismal contents, and plastic disturb- ance in the sac. The galvanism is passed through the tumour by means of needles, which are partly covered with a layer of giim-lac varnish, in order to protect the ordinary tissues which they have to traverse. The needles having been lodged in the tumour, and retardation of the aneur- ismal circulation having been effected by temporary pressure above, the galvanic current is set on, of such strength as the patient is able to bear; anaesthesia being employed or not, as circumstances may seem to require. " To succeed in coagulating the blood, it is necessary to introduce the needles at opposite points, so that they may correspond with each other —^to place them in an oblique or perpendicular direction to that of the blood, in order to oppose a barrier to its course—to cross them, in order to render their influence more active—and to multiply them in large aneurisms, so that a certain number of clots may be early produced, suf- ficient to act as a frame-work for the whole coagulum. It is also advan- tageous to change the direction of the currents many times, so that the galvanic fluid may act in every way, so as to produce a multitude of filaments that will extend as a meshwork through the sanguineous mass. In difficult cases it is necessary to continue the galvanic action a long time, better to insure success, even repeatmg the electric applications at successive sittings."* * Britlsli and Foreign Review, No. xlviii. p. 419 ; Monthly Journal, Aug. 184G, P- ir.o ; Nov. 1816, p. 374 ; Ibid. Jan. 1848, p. 521 ; Ibid. May 1848, Retro- spect, p. 89.