ULCEK OF THE COKNEA. G86 ficial abrasion, somotiiues extensive; or a phlyctenula forms, and super ficial ulceration follows. In some cases the ulcer, commencing at one spoi at the edge of the cornea, gradually extends in a crescentic form round the cornea ; the central portion, remaiiiing attached only by the poste- rior elastic lamina, and having become opaque, either separates in the forrii of a slough, or, evacuation of the aqueous humour occurring at one or more points along the line of ulceration, it recovers its vitality, but remains more or less permanently opaque. The origin of the ulcer may be from within ; matter collects between the true corneal layers, and is discharged externally, leaving an ulcerated aperture; or foreign matter has lodged in the cornea, and is extruded by suppuration and ulceration. In either of these latter cases, the ulcer is deeply seated, and more serious, because more likely to perforate, than when superficial and limited. The ulcer here, as elsewhere, presents different characters, under diffe- rent cii-cumstances. Sometimes it is acute; the inflammatory attack is still in progress, loss of substance is advancing, and there is no attempt at repair. In this state, the ulcer looks as if a portion of the comeaL substance had been chipped out mechanically ; the edges are abrupt, on they may be thickened and swolu. Yery frequently, a delicate plexus; of vessels is found leading to the ulcer. The pain, lachrymation, andu photophobia, are most distressing. Or the ulcer degenerates into thei irntable form; the loss of substance growing neither larger nor less the margins and surface shewing an angry and vascular appearaa often pulpy, as if covered with a layer of wetted chalk; and the syni' toms all undergoing intense aggravation. Or the sore may be of liealthy and healing disposition. Then the edges are less abrupt, and if bevelled off; the chasm is diminishing; a white haziness sirrrouni the margins, and invests the surface; and the painful symptoms are very much diminished. In a patient whose vigour though temporaril; depressed is unabated, or whose health and strength are maintained b; appropriate treatment, this healing process is followed by a very slighi depression, corresponding to the amount of corneal textiu-e destroyed but in all cases where the ulcer has been both deep and wide, the cicai remains white and more or less deeply and permanently excavated. Tin ulcer, however, may stop short in the progress towards cicatrization, am assume the indolent character; becoming stationary, and causing com' paratively little inconvenience. This last phase, however, is certainl; not the one of most frequent occurrence. In the case of the acute ulcer, it is obvious that the only suitable treal ment is to put the organ at rest, and to employ soothing measiu-es such a£ we have already described in speaking of keratitis; with at the sann time the use of a diet suited to support the system, and to remove th( debility which is always present in such cases. And this is to be con- tinued until the inflammatory process is subdued, and symptoms of repaii succeed those of destruction of texture. When the ulceration is very acut( —spreading rapidly and deeply, attended with great pain, wliich is aug mented at night, and occupies the frontal, temporal, and nasal regions- puncturing the corneal margin, either through the ulcer, or elsewhere, a- may be most convenient, will put the parts at rest, and tend to restore r more healthy action to the ulcerating tissue. In many cases the apph