915 FKACTUBE OF THE ACROMION. in voluntaiy motion; by carrying the forearm behind the patient's back, the deformity of the projecting scapula will be recognised ; and as the arm is moved backwards and forwards, crepitus can be distinctly felt by the hand placed flatly on the part. In treatment, it is sufficient to re- stram motion, either by wearing the arm in a sling, having a broad flannel bandage passed firmly round the chest, including the fractured Ijojie or by including both the arm and shoulder in a starch bandage. Fracture of the Acromion. The acromion process can only be detached from the spine of the I scapula by direct violence. The line of fracture is generally posterior ! to the acromio-clavicular articulation ; but sometimes into, and occasion- I aUy external to that joint. The injury is a rare one. The symptoms are nearly the same as those of fracture of the clavicle. There is pain, swelling, and loss of power, more especially in attempting to elevate the arm outwards ; and a depression can be felt at the in- jured part, as the spine of the scapula is traced outwards, in conse- quence of the fractured portion being drawn downwards to a greater or less extent on the head of the humerus, by the action of the deltoid muscle. The degree of this displacement depends apparently upon the extent to which the periosteum surrounding the bone has suf- fered from the injury. By some the clavicle is represented as drawn iownwards and forwards on the coracoid process by the subclavius, and )y the action of the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles overcoming hat of the trapezius and sterno-mastoid ; but such a result could only )ccur in cases where great comminution and laceration at or internal to he acromio-clavicular articulation had taken place. Crepitus is not felt fbn rotating the limb, when the acromion is displaced, until the arm has ■been raised, and the fractured portions brought into apposition. In treatment, it is sufficient to raise the arm fully by means of a sling, and HO prevent motion by suitable bandaging to the trunk. No pad should iSbe placed in the axilla ; otherwise the hiatus between the fractured jl)ortions -^vill probably be increased. Or, if employed at all, the pad )j|hould be a cushion of the wedge shape, with the narrow end upwards, K^eparating the elbow from the side, and thus relaxing the deltoid (Del- ^l^ech). Union is generally by ligament; sometimes the surfaces remain d|bumated at the line of fracture. I Fracture of the Coracoid Process. •\» This, also the result of direct violence, may be occasioned by gunshot yyry> and is most commonly observed as a minor complication of more irious lesion of the upper part of the chest and shoulder. The fractured (lorticn is rotated by the action of the coraco-brachialis, pectoralis minor, f tid biceps muscles ; but cannot bo displaced downwards, as it is firmly i^und throughout its whole extent by the coraco-clavicular ligaments to le clavicle. The presence of pain, crepitus, swelling, and preternatural Lohility of the part, with some loss of power in the limb, will suffi- ; Jontly indicate the presence of the injury. Treatment consists in the