570 AFFECTIONS OF TENJJON. jiuy is a subcutaneous one, either the extremities of the tendon do not unite, no sufliciont medium being produced ; or eacli portion unites sepa- rately to the slieath ; and thus the function of the extremity of the tendon is lost. Tliis fact is of importance both in prognosis and in practice; rendering the division by tenotomy of a tendon within it sheath inexpedient; and intimating that all attempts to produce union, should function be found to be destroyed, will prove quite nugatory. Displacement of Tendon. Tendon may be simply displaced, and so give rise to pain, swelling, and want of power in the limb. The tendon of the biceps flexor cubiti, for example, may be tilted out of the bicipital groove, and rest on th' minor tubercle. The accident is somewhat obscure, the change of rela- tive position being but slight. When detected, replacement is easih made. Hypertrophy and Tumour of Tendon. Hypertrophy.—Tendons are liable, in the elderly, to become affected by simple enlargement; causing not merely deformity, but also pain, de- bility, and general loss of function in the part. The tendon most fre- quently observed to be thus affected is the Tendo A chillis near the heel. Treatment is by rest, discutients, counter-irritation, and relaxation of the muscle or muscles implicated. To fulfil the last indication, for instance, in the case of the Tendo Acliillis, it is well to wallc but little, and with th* heel of the shoe somewhat raised. Often a gouty diathesis exists, and requires to be attended to in the ordinary way. Tumour.—There seems no good reason theoretically why tumour.- should not commence their development from the connective tissue o tendon, as well as in other fibrous tissue. Such, however, is un doubtedly in practice a very uncommon occurrence. Mr. Syme* haf narrated a case of this kind in a young female, affecting one of th( tendons upon the flexor aspect of the fore-arm, and simulating a neu romatous affection of the median nerve. On removal the tumour wa; found to be of a medullary nature. * Observations in Clinical Sm'gery, p. 200.