ULCERS OF THE LIP. 768 remain till union is complete, unless tliey seem to create irritation. After tlie removal of the needle a strip of plaster, applied from cheek to cheek across the lip, may sometimes bo found advantageous. To assist the sutures in their work of coaptation, pressure may bo made on each cheek, bulging the lip forward, by means of a kind of truss made for the purpose. However carefully applied, and apparently useful when adjusted, yet in a restless, fractious child, in whom its use might seem most requisite, it will be found certainly displaced within a few hours, and either require constant readjustment, or, if left displaced, will positively drag upon the lip, and tend to do more harm than good. If the fissure extends into the nose, and the ala nasi on that side is flattened, the mucous membrane reflected from the lip upon the gums should be divided, and the cheek and ala sufficiently dissected from the superior maxilla, to admit of such a degree of sUding of the cheek as will elevate the nose and diminish its gaping aperture. In double harelip, there is a fissure extending from each nostril, and usually complete. The intermediate portion of lip may be fully deve- loped, i»r it may be short and deficient. In the one case, two hues of wound are necessary—the ordinary operation being applied to each fissure ; in the other, a single approximation will sufiice—as is suffi- ciently illustrated in the diagram (Fig. 276). Complicated Harelip.—CompKcation attends on the double form more frequently than on the single. The hard and soft palates may be cleft. Or the gum is in an abnormal state j projecting forwards between the fissures, attached to the columna and anterior extremity of t" septum of the nose and central palatine arch. This central alveo' prominence bears the two central incisors, and constitutes the analogue of the intermaxillary bones which are normally present as a separate structure in some of the lower animals. The abnormal state of the palate makes no difference in the operation on the lip ; except to expedite its performance, in the hope that the traction so exerted may have some good efi'ect, in favouring diminution of the palatine chasm during pro- gressive development of the parts. In the case where an intermaxillary bone exists, after dissecting up the portion of lip developed in connec- tion with it, and continuous with the columna, the narrow neck of attach- ment of the intermaxillary bone is then divided by means of bone-pHers and its removal having been thus effected as a preliminary proceedingj the hareHp is afterwards dealt with in the ordinary way. In some fe cases, repression of the prominence may be efiected, by adapting i; spring instrument calculated to exert the necessary amount of pres. sure; or a /\ shaped portion of the palatal arch having been cut awa; with pliers, the bone is forcibly retained on the same level as th rest of the alveolar arch by means of wire sutures. This of course mus be performed at an early period of life; but the union of the labw fissures may be delayed as long as is deemed expedient. Ulcers of the Lips. The lips are liable to ulceration of the ordinary kind; induced exposure to weather, irritation of tartar or decayed teeth, gastric <