490 11 ABIES. Rabies in the Dug.—Tliis disease is said to be of two forms. " The first is characterised by augmented activity of the sensorial and locomotive functions, continued and peculiar barking, and a strong dis. position to bite (the Rasende Wutli or raging rabies of Hertwig). ITig affection commences Avith some alteration in the peculiar habits and dis- position of the animal, who, as the case may be, is more irritable, more tractable, more lively, or more sluggish than usual; or these several con- ditions may alternate in one and the same animal An early symptom' consists in an inclination to lick, or carry in the mouth, various inedible substances, especially such as are cold. The animal after a time gets restless ; snaps in the air, as if at flies, frequently leaves the house, but soon returns; and is obedient and seems attached to his master. Ac- cording to Blaine, constipation constantly exists. There is usually com- plete loss of appetite ; but the animal seems to suffer from thirst, drinking eagerly, until, as indeed usually occurs, the mouth and tongue become swoln. The eyes are red, and become dull, haggard, and half closed, the skin of the forehead being also wrinkled, which gives the animal a peculiar aspect. The nose, tongue, and throat, now usually beconu swoln; and the coat becomes rough and staring. According to Hert wig, the mouth is generally very dry; but Blaine has constantly obser\ a flow of thin saliva. After some time, the gait becomes unsteady and, staggering, and finally the extremities are paralyzed. The tail, in this form of the disease, is not drawn between the legs; and the head k i carried erect; the nose being poiuted upwards. A disposition to bite,t sooner or later, invariably occurs ; it is not, however, permanent, buti recurs periodically; is directed against both inanimate and animate ob-i jects; most especially against the cat, less so towards other animals, and, least of all towards man. When the animal bites, he does not previouslj-j bark or fly at the object of his attack, but approaches in a quiet or ever', friendly manner, and makes a sudden snap. " The second form of the disease is distinguished by inactivity anc depression (the Stille Wuth, still or cahn rabies); there is no dispositioi to bite—probably from the lower jaw being paralyzed; nor is there anj inclination for change of place manifested. The first symptoms arc , unusual quietness and apparent depression of spirits. The voice i i peculiarly altered, as it is also in the foregoing variety, but there is mucl less disposition to bark. The mouth is open, the lower jaw hangs as i i paralyzed, and is raised only under the influence of strong excitement there is a constant flow of slaver from the mouth. The animal eithe does not drink at all, or does so with difiiculty; but manifests no fea of water, and, on the contrary, willingly immerses the nose in that flniJ The tongue is almost constantly protruded from the mouth."* Th' animal rarely survives beyond the sixth day ; never beyond the teiitb Thus we see that the insanity and alleged dread of water of the dog ar but vulgar errors, in connection with this disease ; some animals, iudeeil trained to certain duties—as pointers—have performed these Avhile li the rabid state, quite as efficiently as when unaffected. The most invan able symptom is the rough harsh short bark, suddenly changed into short howl; very peculiar, and quite characteristic. * British and Foreign Mediciil Keview, No. 25, p. 50.