737 rOLYPUS OF THE NOSE. operative interference is required. It is sufficient to attend to regimen, and to the state of the general system, so as to jDrevent, if possible, further growth ; and direct treatment, in the form of astringent and jimulating lotions or ointments, may be applied to the organ itself, with view towards restoring it to a normal state. But when the growth ttauis to the magnitude of a pear or egg, and several such masses hang n pendulous clusters over the mouth and chin, they prove so serious an nconvenience, obstructing vision, and interfering with eating, drinking, peaking, and breathing, as to require surgical interference. In such cir- umstances, the redundant growth should be carefully pared away. A Inger having been placed in the nostril, so as to distend the part, and acihtate dissection—wliile the risk of cutting through the cartilage is voided—the knife and catch-forceps, if need be, are carefully used, so as ■o remove the whole of the morbidly altered structures. The bleeding is ostly venous, and though considerable, is easily checked by cold or pres- are. Sometimes the parts are so dense as to jDreclude the use of liga- [ue to the arterial points ; in which case, if pressure fail, the needle and ivisted thread may be emjDloyed. Cicatrization is usually rapid; and, when jmpleted, satisfactory. Apparent reproduction may, however, take place, y the surrounding integument, formerly unaffected, becoming similarly seased; the cicatrix itself usually remains firm and depressed. Morbid ExjKinsion of the Nose.—Sometimes the extremity of the *gan becomes developed altogether out of proportion to the rest of the atures, and thus constitutes a deformity of a more or less rounded form, which all the tissues, and not merely the skin, appear to have become orbidly developed. In such cases the removal of a wedge-shaped por- on of the extremity of the nose, including the growth, has recently :en practised by Mr. Syme with satisfactory results, more particularly regards the improved personal appearance of the patient. After the dge-shaped portion has been taken away, silver wire sutures are intro- ced, and the part heals readily by the first intention.* Polypus of the Nose. Nasal polypi are of various kinds ; simple-mucous, and cysto-mucous ; brous j and meduUary. The first are, fortunately, of most frequent jcurrence j and usually are found to be developed from the investing pmbrane of the superior turbinated bones. The symptoms of the common mucous polypus are sufficiently charac- istic. The patient feels that something unusual, and apparently fleshy, joccupying the nostril; calls to blow the nose are unusually fi.-equent, ''. can be but imperfectly obeyed—passage of air through that nostril ag found to be much obstructed ; there is a preternatural amount of pcous discharge from the part; on attempting to blow the nose, a great n;ion of the mucous secretion is thrown into the pharynx ; there is a stant feeling as if there existed " a cold in the headvery frequently, tre is lachrymation, the extremity of the nasal duct being compressed I the growtli, or tlie lining membrane of the duct being sympathiziugly plved in congestion; and these uncomfortable circumstances are all ■* Syme's Observations in Clinical Surgery, p. 203. 3 B