POKCELLANOUS CHANGE, EBUllNATION. Porcellcmous Change, Ehurnation. This may follow on destructive disintegration of cartilage ; one mode of reparation being by the aid of dense osseous formation, assuming a vitreous polish, as formerly explained. Eut more frequently it follows on the foregoing allection—atrophy, constituting a part of the changes result- infT from chronic rheumatic arthritis. The bone is exposed, by the orradual removal of the superimposed cartilage ; and then, the absorbent process usually ceasing, a restorative is begun. New cartilage cannot be produced, but a very efficient substitute may; a texture not soft, elastic, and finely lubricated; but dense, smooth, and of the finest polish. In some cases, the open texture of the exposed bone is retained; as if this had merely become condensed and polished on its very surface, by dint of pressure and friction, while the open cancelli, possessing a honey- comb appearance, become occupied with tough, fibrous, or ligamentous texture, presenting at times a tufted or villous appearance ; but more frequently the existence of a new osseous product is plainly evinced, by closure of the cancelli ; the glistening surface in the macerated bone then presents a compact and unbroken aspect, and sometimes this new deposit of bone is of very considerable thickness. Yery frequently the opposing porcellanous surfaces—as of the tibia and femur—fit into each other by grooves and ridges ; and thus, motion becomes not only crank but limited. The formation of new osseous matter exterior to the joint is also not uncommon ; another serious obstacle to function. In some instances, the porcellanous change is effected by direct calcification of the articular cartilage, in which change of structure has been obviously going on for some time. This porcellanous material has little resemblance to true bone ; and by some it is spoken of as an unorganized amorphous secretion of phosphate of Hme. But the new formation is found to contain a proportion of calcareous matters not much different from that of ordinary bone ; and more careful investigation has shewn it to be perfectly organized—the only difference being that the bony tissue has become at that part per- fectly calcified, requiring maceration in a dilute mineral acid to enable its structural elements to be properly shewn. The symptoms are similar to those of the most usual cause—chronic rheumatic arthritis. Chronic Rheumatic Arthritis. This composite disease, for an accurate knowledge of which we are in- debted to Haygarth, Sir B. Brodie, Cruveilhier, E. W. Smith, Canton, and most of all to Dr. Adams of the Richmond Hospital, Dublin, may origi- nate either from a local and accidental cause, such as a sprain or bruise, or may commence spontaneously. In the latter instance, both the luxurious class of the community, and the hard-worked labourer, especially the aged paupers of our workhouses, are liable to suffer. In such circum- stances, pre-existent acute rheumatism, exposure to cold, and the existence of causes of general depression, have been blamed as its source. Thus commencing, attended by rheumatic symptoms throughout, tending to changes of a more decided and advanced kind in the osseous than in any other texture imphcated during the progress of the disease, yielding to