CHAPTER XXIV. DISIOCATIOK Dislocation, or Luxation, denotes displacement of a joint, the bones remaining entire. Some joints are more liable than others to such in- jury ; first, those of the ball and socket construction, as the shoulder and hip ; next, the ginglymoid, as the elbow. And, again, the articu- lations most exposed to external violence are necessarily the most liable to displacement. Dislocations may occur at any age; but are most frequent during the middle period of life. In advanced years, fracture is more common. In early adolescence the accident is rare ; and yet examples are not wanting. Even at five years of age, dislocation of the hip has happened in an ordinary way.* Congenital Luxations are by no means rare ; and are of different kinds. 1. Obstetrical; the result of accident by force in delivery. 2. Spontaneoibs; caused by articular disease in utero. 3. Functional; by functional disorder of the muscles, dependent on derangement of the nervous system in utero. As in clubfoot. 4. Original; by arrest of development ; the articulating apparatus being incomplete.t The Causes of ordinary luxation are, first. Predisposing. Peculiarity of construction and site, as just stated, may be said to be of this class. Also, weakness of surrounding muscles plainly favours the occurrence. The muscles afford much support, cA'^en in the dead body, to the joints; and any articulation, which lacks that accustomed aid, will be especially liable to dislocation. The joints of atrophied and paralysed limbs, con- sequently, are in especial danger. Undue elongation of the proper arti- culating apparatus also predisposes; whether this be the result of external violence—as in the case of over-extension—or of chronic dis- ease. Accumulation of fluid in a joint predisposes, particularly in those of ball and socket construction ; inasmuch as the ligamentous tissues by which the articulating ends are kept in apposition are thereby stretched. Destructive disease of joints manifestly tends to their displacement, as formerly stated ; only a slight force being sufiicient, when the retentive structure has almost all fallen before ulceration. One act of dislocation predisposes to another. A joint, once luxated, is especially liable to re- displacement ; for the muscles have been weakened, the articulating apparatus has been stretched and elongated, and the latter, too, may be yet deficient at the part where the end of the bone formerly escaped. The Exciting causes are, like those of fracture, external violence and muscular action. A blow or fall, as was staled, may occasion fracture, * Lancet, No. 1280, p. 285. + British and Foreign Eeview, No. xlii., p. 393.