795 IIYPERTllOl'IIY OF THE TONGUE. tongup, when tlio disease is situated in its posterior parts. J3y an in- cision carried along the haso of the jaw from angle to angle, a flap of integumental texture is marked out and dissected downwards, the tloor'of the mouth is opened by carrying the Icnife along the inside of the base of the jaw, the tongue is draAvn downwards through this incision by a volsella, and dissected off from its lateral and hyoid attach- ments, and the vessels are tied as divided. The flap is then replaced and retained by sutures, and the patient is fed, till he can swallow, by passing tlic feeding tube. Mr. Syme has, in two cases, removed the entire tongue by a straight incision from the middle of the lower lip to the hyoid bone, dissecting back the integu- ments, dividing the lower jaw at its sym- [ihysis, detaching the tongue on each side from tiie base of the jaw, and lastly cutting through its hyoid attachments. His example lias been followed by Drs. Fiddes of Jamaica, and Paul of Elgin, and by Mr. Nunnelly of Leeds. The e.craseur, and deligation by means of whip-cord, have also been employed to remove the whole organ, with or without preliminary dissection of superficial parts.* The result of experience in the partial and (Complete removal of the tongue has not been of a kind to encourage any hope of affording permanent rehef ; operations there- fore should only be undertaken as a means of palliation, and this can be effected most satisfactorily by a partial removal when the disease is situated on the tip or edge of the organ, due care being taken that the whole of the ihseased part, with a border of apparently sound texture, is included by the incisions. Persons of advanced years should be very careful to avoid all con- tinued irritation of the tongue, as by tartar, false teeth, etc., lest trouble- some and ultimately malignant ulceration be induced. Hypertrophy or Prolajjsus of the Tongue. In young persons the tongue is occasionally the seat of simple hronic enlargement; and this is probably always congenital. The ormal texture is expanded; and the papiUse greatly enlarged. Much convenience necessarily results ; even at an early period of the case, e growth progresses with the development of the child, and is aterially accelerated by dentition and febrile disturbance of the system. Itimately the tongue protrudes; assumes a more globular form; has brownish irregular surface, and is fissured beneath by ulceration occa- * Mirault, Gazette Med. de Paris, vol. ii. p. 507, 1834 ; Amott, Med. Cliirarg. Tans., vol. xxii., 1839. Fig. 288. Excavated malignant ulcer of the root of the tongue. CEdema glottidis as supervened secondarily. Fig. 288.