1078 VESICAL CALCULUS. Smart exercise is also of service. In tlie first instance, antiphlogistics are not demanded; they are held in readiness for the threatening of inflammatory accession. Not the least important part of the treatment is the adoption and maintenance of such means as are best suited for over- coming the diathesis on which the existence of the stone depends. Should there be reason to apprehend arrest in the ureter, witli complete or even great obstruction, diuretics and diluents will of course be refrained from ; but laxatives, such as castor-oil combined with opium, or cannabis Indica, will afford relief When, however, the vomiting precludes us from such a mode of administration, either opiate enemata may be given, or chloro- form administered by inhalation, and its effects maintained so long as the attack lasts. The warm bath, and even venesection, may sometimes be found advantageous. When the descent of the calculus has been com- pleted, and the bladder is reached, diluents will be found useful in favour- ing complete expulsion of the foreign body. When a large stone lodges in the kidney, and its presence can be made out with tolerable certainty, nephrotomy has been proposed ; cutting into the gland from behind, and extracting the stone. This is not warrant- able, however, except in those cases in which nature has effected the greater part of the procedure ; when suppuration has taken place; when the textures intervening between the stone and the sui'face are matted together and consolidated ; when the stone has become superficial; and when, in short, there is no risk of any mistake in diagnosis, or of inflict- ing a fatal injury. Then the pointing abscess may be opened, or the aperture already existing may be enlarged, and the stone may be seized and removed. Such cases, however, are very rare, as can readily he understood. Vesical Calculus. As already stated, vesical calculus may originate in the bladder, formed on a nucleus there. More frequently, it may be said to be a continuation of the renal concretion. On descent having been completed, the sufferings which accompanied it generally cease; the patient enjoys a period of comfort; and he is apt to imagine himself rid of the malady. Uneasiness, however, returns; and in no long time the symptoms of stone in the bladder become marked and characteristic. The water is passed with unusual frequency, and with more or less pain. Desire to evacuate the bladder is not only frequent but sudden and irresistible; and the eva- cuation does not bring relief On the contrary, the pain, which existed daring micturition, is aggravated when the bladder is empty, and when spasmodic contraction of the middle coat expels the last few drops of urine, and brings the morbidly-sensitive mucous membrane into direct and rough contact with the calculus. The pain is referred cliiefly to the point of the penis, with a sensation as if something lodged there; aud, in consequence, tlie prepuce and end of the glans are Liable to be pinched and pulled by the patient involuntarily. This especially takes place in children ; and in them it is common to observe the forefinger and thumb pale and sodden in their points like those of a washerwoman. We may find elongation and oedema of the prepuce, from the same cause, A slight change of posture may induce the desire for micturition. It is