ItENAL CALCULUS. 1076 tliat the irritation of tlie calcnlus reacts unfavourably on the kidney, caus- ing continuance or even increase of depraved secretion. Mere sand may remain in the tuhuli; but calculi lodge in the infundibula; and thence may descend to the pelvis of the kidney. And if a calculus continue m any of these cavities for some time, a peculiarity of shape is acquired— diagnostic of such formations—dependent on the form of the cavity; in fact, the stone—though usually small, oval, and smooth, of a reddish- brown colour and granular surface, like uric calculi in general—sometimes enlarges to a considerable size, forming an accurate cast of the pelvis and infmidibula, or assuming the form and appearance of a piece of rough branching coral. This happens when the calculus continues to be renal; more frequently, however, it descends by the ureter to the bladder; thence to be expelled by the urethra, or to enlarge into a vesical calculus. If it remain in the Icidney, serious changes take place in that organ. Tlie cavity or cavities are completely occupied; then, the size increasing, encroachment by pressure is made on the texture of the gland, until tliis may come to consist of little more than a mere cyst, within which the large stone is contained. Sometimes active inflammatory change occui's; the kidney suppurates ; the matter, obeying the general rule of seeking the external surface, may point posteriorly ; and, evacuation having taken place, the stone may be felt by the probe or finger. The symptoms of stone in the kidney are generally as follows ;—A dull aching, with a sensation of weight, is felt in the loins ; with a sharp pricking feeling in the region of the kidney. Sometimes there is pain in the scrobiculus cordis ; sometimes there are fits of vomiting • generally the stomach is irritable. The urine, from time to time, shews an admix- ture of blood; and, along with this, the discharge of small fibrinous clots is apt to occiu", especially after exercise; which, when rude and violent, aggravates aU the symptoms. There is frequent desire to make water, with pain referred to the orifice of the urethra, and to the testicle upon the affected side, which is sometimes tender upon pressure and retracted. Numbness, pain, and cramp in the corresponding thigh are very common. Febrile aggravations are liable to occur, the kidney becoming the subject of intercurrent seizures of an inflammatory nature. Purulent matter may descend from the pelvis, and be voided with the lu'ine; and by continu- ance of such discharge, by the htematuria, by the pain and general disorder, serious exhaustion may ensue. Generally, irritation descends; and the bladder ultimately sympathises more or less, by functional or organic dis- order. Large calculi, occupying the whole gland, may sometimes be felt by external manipulation ; and, in the open suppurated conchtion, a very accurate diagnosis may be arrived at, as already stated. Generally the stone, at no long period after its first formation, descends by the ureter; tliis movement being induced by its own weight, and by the flow of urine. Sometimes, however, it is arrested in the passage; an event towards wHch the irregular and oval form of the calculus is mani- festly favourable. The ureter may be, in consequence, either Avholly or partially obstructed. Usually the form of the calculus is such as to favour the urine's escape by its side; but still even such partial obstnic- tion, if long continued, may lead to very serious results ; dilatation of the ureter above, of the kidney's pelvis, and of the infundibula; absorption