279 CHANGE OF STRUCTURE. m PI M these, as well as tlie canals, come to be occupied by inflammatory cellular product. The process abiding in the minor degree, tliis inflammatory product .passes transitionally into osseous tissue. Tlie bone is enlarged, but still porous and spongy in texture. (Fig. 107.) As the process falls away and becomes more chronic, organization and transition of this new and adventitious medullary tissue advance more thoroughly; and to enlargement are added both condensation and indu- ration of texture. The Haversian canals become narrowed, and may be ultimately obliterated; section of the bone presenting a dense ivory appearance (Fig. 109). The medullary canal in the long bones, too, is often similarly encroached upon. And in consequence of this excess of earthy matter, it is important to bear in mind that the bone—now less vascular—is impaii-ed in vital power; and thcKefore less likely to control a reaccession of the inflammatory process. Liability, therefore, to the destructive results of the inflammatory process—to suppuration, ulceration, and necrosis—is in- creased. This state of condensation may persist, but little changed. Or, by fatty degeneration, reconversion into ad- ventitious medullary tissue, and reabsorption of what is new, after long time the Haversian canals may again widen, and the cancelU regain their normal size. When the original process has comj)letely subsided, we are not to expect the same rapid and satisfactory dis- appearance of structural change, as in similar afl'ections of the soft parts. Yet absorption is not idle. The redun- dancy of bone diminishes more or less. And, if inflam- matory relapse do not occur, and the soiu'ce of irritation does not remain persistent, after some time both enlarge- ment and condensation may be considerably modified, and normal texture greatly restored, more especially if the natural resolutive effort be judiciously seconded by appro- priate treatment. Such resolution, however, can only be hoped for at a long distant date ; and under any cu'cum stances is seldom if ever altogether complete. The progress of simple change of structure in bone is indicated by symptoms in the main very similar to those of subacute or chronic periostitis. In fact, in all these cases the periosteum, on which the bone is so dependent for its sources of vascular nutrition, is always con- sentaneously affected, in greater or lesser degree, according to the site and intensity of the afi"ection of the osseous texture of which it forms the investment. The pain is more severe than in simple periostitis, and has marked nocturnal exacerbations; it is more deeply seated, and not so much aggravated by pressure. The soft parts are early and much involved; hut, at first at least, in a minor degree. In the deeper areolar tissue, exterior to the periosteum, and intermuscular, there is much fibrinous inflammatory product; clogging the muscles, impeding motion, and a firm, deep, inelastic swelling. In the superficial areolar Utiiiiil,,! Pig. lor. affording fig. 107. Porous enlargement of the tibia ; tlie result of ostitis.