133 MORTIFICATION. diac aspect of the sphacelus, and sloping downwards. Wlien gangrene is less extensive, the process of separation is still the same ; ulceration, on every"aspect of the slougli, until tlie dead portion is fairly separated from the living. On its separation, ulceration, still advancing, may be found beneath. °* But usually it is not so ; the appearances are rather those of a healthy granulating sore. The inflammatory advance is seldom greater than what'' is merely sufficient to secure disintegration and removal of that layer of living texture which is in contact with the dead part, for the purpose of separating and throwing off the latter ; and, at every point where separation has been effected, ulceration usually ceases; gi^dng place to granulation, which then slowly effects a closure -of the breach. Ulceration is the agent which makes the furrow ; repair by granulation follows closely on its heel. And so it is in regard to dead bone; the line of separation is scarcely visible between the dead and living, when already preparations for the substitute bone have been bewun. Constitutional Symptoms of Mortification. During the early period of the inflammatory process, the constitu- tional symptoms are usually those of Inflammatory Fever; but so soon as gangrene has commenced, these symptoms pass more or less rapidly from the inflammatory type, to the Typhoid form of Constitutional Irrita- tion. The disorder has been so well described by Mr. Travers, in his work on Inflammation, as to render a transference of the passage entire more than excusable. " The pulse is increased in frequency, and dimi- nished in diameter and force ; in many cases irregular, and in some in- termitting. A pecuHar anxiety of expression appears in the physiognomy, and a remarkable livor overspreads the face, the features of which, the nose and lips especially, are contracted and pinched. The anxiety is soon exchanged for a hebetude of expression, as if the patient were imder the influence of alcohol or opium ; involuntary movements and tremors affect the hands and fingers, and frequent sighings are observed, which are broken by occasional hiccup. The inclination for food fails totally, the surface of the tongue is coated with a brown fui*, harsh and dry, leaving the edge and tip free, but without moisture. As the case advances, the entire tongue, fauces, and lips, become dry to incrustation, so as to require constant moistening ; but with small quantities of fluid,, for swallowing is slow, and attended with difficulty. The skin, which in the onset was dry, opens to a copious but clammy perspiration over the whole surface. It parts sensibly with its temperature, and feels cold as well as damp. The mind, at first irritable—then, after the total subsi- dence of pain, stupid—wavers, and becomes subject to illusions, chiefly of a passive and transient kind ; expressed by half sentences, with a thick and broken articulation, and accompanied with startings and momentary gleams of insane excitement. In traumatic gangrene—the age and constitution being previously in full vigour—this low delirium is exchanged for fits of active and wild frenzy, accompanied with loud cries and vehement efforts, requiring a powerful and continual restraint; and this continues, with occasional intervals from exhaustion, for hours together; and subsides, often suddenly, in prolonged coma aud apo-