439 SUPPUllATIVE I'lILEBlTlS. ber of cases it proves fiital; not by extension to the heart, as has been fth-eady stated; but by the typhoid symptoms consequent to, and doubt- less dependent on, not merely extensive and rapid disintegration of in- filtrated tissue, but also the direct and copious admixture of noxious fluids with the circulating blood. In short, the condition of pyaemia is established ; and the iatal issue is usually accelerated by the formation o£ purulent depots—their most frequent site being in the lungs. In the treatment, our chief object is to prevent suppuration if pos- giljle—Avhen the case is seen early enough to admit of this. If the symptoms do not at once display the asthenic characters, blood may be taken from the part by leeches or pancturing. Absolute repose is maintained; of the whole body, and more especially of the part. Hot fomentation is dihgently used; medicated by a weak solution of acetate of lead with opium. Should we succeed thus, in either preventing sup- puration altogether, or in confining it to the limited form, the event is fortunate; the constitutional disturbance is sHght, life is not perilled, and the local change can be easily recovered from. Should we fail, however, as is not unlikely; should suppuration not only occur, but become plainly of the diffuse form—then blind adherence to antiphlo- gistic treatment Were but infatuation. Low symptoms are already setting in; the system already has begun to yield. The whole plan of treat- ment must be at once changed ; prostrating remedies being desisted from, and stimulants held in readiness for free yet cautious and skilful use. Our duty then is to support the system, by prudent stimulation ; and soothing symptoms by opiates and otherwise, as circumstances may seem to require. BHsters, applied in narrow strips over the inflamed vein, are highly extolled by some, and reprobated by others. In this country, the pre- ponderating opinion seems not in their favour. In obstructive phlebitis they are more suitable; should chronic inflammatory disease prove obstinate. For they may have a favourable effect in arresting this ; at the same time promoting absorption of the consolidated contents. In hmited suppuration of a vein, the same treatment is to be fol- lowed as in ordinary acute abscess. A free and early incision is made ; followed by fomentation, poultice, and rest, l^o un-^vonted hemorrhage occurs; the venous canal being obstructed on each aspect of the suppurated part. The cavity granulates, and closes in the ordinary way. Should incision be delayed, there is danger of the protective dykes yielding before .the pressure of accumulating pus, and of the case being thus unfortunately converted from the limited form into the diffuse; from a comparatively trifling affection into one which most frequently terminates in death. Seeing the importance of fibrinous dykes, it has been proposed arti- ficially to induce their formation in urgent cases of phlebitis, by applying potass, or other caustic, to a portion of vein on the cardiac aspect of the affected part. The attempt has foiled, however, as might have been ex- pected ; the phlebitis induced proving not obstructive, but suppurative ; the original disease not becoming limited, but extending and still diffuse. _ Such being the dangers of phlebitis, it surely follows that the excit- ing causes of that disease, in the traumatic form, should be most carefully avoided ; in other words, that we slum interlerenco witli the venous