820 CESOPIIAGOTOMY. by tlieir presence life is endangered, or sup]inration m threatened, and when they are so firmly impacted as to be unremovable by other means. Verduc in his Surgical Pathology was the fi.rst to broach the idea of this procedure; and although learnedly discussed by others, it was first prac- tised by Goursauld, a surgeon in Limousin, in 1738. Since his time the operation has been occasionally resorted to by others; the infrequency of its performance being due, not to any objection to its validity as an operative procedure, but to the rarity of cases requiring its performance. When the foreign body forms a distinct prominence in the neck, its situation will form a guide in regard to the site of the incision and the further dissection. Cases, however, have occurred (Arnott, Syme) where no such prominence was appreciable either by sight or touch. In such circumstances, a flexible bougie should be passed before commencing, so as to determine by measurement externally the level at which the foreign body lies. The incision most suitable, and which is usually resoi-ted to, should be made along the inner side of the left sterno-mastoid muscle, with its centre midway between the level of the larynx and sternum ; the skin, platysma, and fascia, having been divided, the outer margin of the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles is separated from the inner margin of the omohyoid; the surgeon feeling for the pulsation of the carotid artery, has the vessels and their sheath drawn to the outer side by means of a blunt hook, while the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, "svith the thyroid gland, larynx, and trachea, are kept towards the inner side; he now carefully makes his way towards the anterior surface of the cervical vertebrae; and in effecting this, the superior and inferior thy- roid arteries and veins, and the recurrent nerve, should be avoided. A full-sized probang, or elastic bougie, or a pair of curved oesophagus- forceps, or a lithotomy-staff, should now be passed down the pharynx, so that the walls of the oesophagus may be made to project through the wound in the neck ; a longitudinal incision is then made in its coai^;, and the finger passed through the opening into the canal, while thei guiding instrument is withdrawn, and the foreign body sought for. When detected, forceps are introduced, by which it is seized and extracted. After the operation, the patient must be fed for some days by means ofi the stomach-tube, passed from either the mouth or wound, as may be. thought best. By some it has been recommended that the oesoph opening should be united by sutures, but this is quite unnecessary; an no sutures or plasters should be employed in the outer wound. ffisophagotomy, as described, has by some been recommended for the removal of foreign bodies lodged within the thoracic portion of the oeso- phagus. There could be no objection to this, if they were situated so af •to be within reach of the finger ; but for a mere chance venture al foreign bodies arrested close to the diaphragm, or with the Adew o: employing propulsive efforts more efficiently, the procedure has by n( means received the sanction of the profession. By some, also, the op ration has been proposed as a means of feeding a patient suffering fro obstruction of the pharynx by stricture, either simple or malignant, an which, by producing complete dysphagia, threatens inanition.