1367 AMPUTATION OF THE FOOT. that of the great toe as well; the solution of continuity being assisted by the surgeon forcibly depressing the toes and metatarsal range, so as to render the joints more open. The projection backwards of the trian- gular base of the metatarsal bone of the second toe in the mortice joint between the first and third cuneiform bones, and the presence of the strong plantar ligaments which pass from the first cuneiform to the second and third metatarsal bones, must be recollected by the operator. The portion of the ai'ticulation between the second metatarsal and second cuneiform is easily opened, by a transverse incision about a quarter of an inch behind the general line of the articulations ; but the resistance of the plantar ligaments is best overcome by passing the point of the knife, edge forwards, into the interspace between the first and second, and afterwards between the second and third, at an angle of 460, so as to lodge the back of the point upon the upper surface of the tendon of the peroneus longus, and thus effect division of the ligament with- out injury to the soft parts in the sole, when the handle of the knife is raised to the perpendicular position. Should anchylosis have taken place Fig. 383. the pliers or saw are to be employed; dividing the bone on a Kne with the general range of articulation. Disjunction having been completed by the point of the knife, the blade may be laid on behind, and a sufficient flap made from the sole of the foot—longer on the inner than on the outer aspect. Or the flap may be fashioned, and dissected up, perhaps more accurately, by cutting from without inwards. This plantar flap requires to extend as far forward as the extremities of the metatarsal bones. The bleeding vessels having been secured, the flaps are adjusted by suture and strap ; the line of union corresponding to the dorsum of the foot. Wliere the tissues of the sole are destroyed, and only a short plantar flap can be obtained, a commensurately large flap must be mapped out from the textures of the dorsum. In operating on the left foot, the dorsal incision is begun over the articulation of the metatarsal bone of the gi-eat toe with the internal cuneiform bone, and terminates behind the prominent head of the meta- tarsal bone of the little toe ; in other respects, the operation is the same. When the projecting cuneiform bone comes in the way of the union of the angle of the two flaps, it may be removed by the saw and pliers, as recommended by Mr. Hey. Fig. 383. Amputation of the foot.—Chopart's.