I CHAPTER XXXIIL AFFECTIONS OF THE OEBIT, AND ITS CONTENTS. I. Affections op the Orbit. The Inflammatory Process, affecting the orbit, is usually the result of injury, when primary. Som times it is of a secondary character, and unconnected with violence don to the part; an extension of the process from a neighbouring par from the eye-ball, or from the scalp. Most frequently it follows injury. And the affection is visually intense ; suppuration being certainly an soon attained. Pain is great and increasing; tension is great, for sweUin is hindered by the unyielding process of the periosteal lining of the orV —termed orbital hgament or fascia—which confines the orbital conten in front; vision is more or less impaired by compression of the eye-h and this organ, according to the amount of deep swelling, is more or protruded; the eyelids are red and oedematous, the conjunctiva tumi its submucous texture infiltrated with amber-coloured serous fluid; flammatory fever is intense, and the cerebral functions are often j^ro nently disordered. In some cases, the morbid condition is only part c an intracranial inflammatory afiection—symptomatic of its advanc stage and the occurrence of suppuration. Treatment comprises the ordinary antiphlogistic indications. Whei a wound exists, careful examination is expedient, to ascertain whether c not any foreign substance—as straw, wood, iron—has penetrated lodged ; and if such an obvious exciting cause of the inflammatory p cess be detected, it is forthwith removed. Leeches are appHed in numbe in some cases, general blood-letting may also be found advisable ; and tl" antiphlogistic accessaries to blood-letting—aconite or antimony, p tives, quietude, etc., will not be neglected; vomiting being avoided, f( obvious reasons. The part is diKgently fomented; and so soon as indi^^' tions exist—however faint—of matter having formed—or even Avhen tl tension is great, an evacuating incision is practised; it being obvious, of the greatest importance to penetrate the orbital hgament at an ear. jDeriod of the suppuration. On evacuation of matter, the symptoms a speedily mitigated; the tension, throbbing, and intense pain aim immediately. If incision be delayed, spontaneous evacuation takes pla but not till after much suffering, considerable destruction of textw and dangerous impairment of function in the eyeball. Such incisio should always, if possible, be made through the conjunctiva, and n through the toxtiu-es of the lid ; as the puckering, which would aim'