1353 AMPUTATION OF THE FINGERS. do"vvnwards and outwards, a sufficient flap is formed on tlie palmar aspect. Previously to disarticulation, the surgeon lays hold of the part on its dorsal and palmar aspects ; in making the flap, his hold is lateral. Or the procedure may be reversed. The hand being placed in a state of supination, transfixion is made in front of the joint; by cutting downwards and outwards, the flap is made in the first instance; and then, by a sweep of the knife, disarticulation is effected, and the integu- ments on the dorsal aspect are divided. Usually, no hemostatics are required. The flap is turned over the joint, and is retained in its place by a single point of suture, or by bandage or strap alone. Such amputations are, however, rarely required ; the conditions demanding operative interference in the fingers being usually of such a kind as either necessitate amputation of the whole finger, or are better reme- died by cutting two rounded flaps from without inwards—the one upon the flexor, the other upon the extensor aspect—and dividing the bone Pig. 376. with pliers. In using this instrument care is taken to place its smooth side always where the stump is to be ; otherwise spHntering and irre- gularity are apt to occur, and to be followed by necrosis. In the middle, ring, and little fingers, amputation through the middle phalanx should not as a rule be preferred to amputation of the whole digit; as half a finger among the others has a very unseemly appearance, and does not afford a commensurately increased degree of usefulness to the hand. An exception to this rule, however, should be made in cases of injury involving all the fingers ; as in such circumstances any portion, how- ever small, more particularly of the fingers towards the volar aspect of the hand, should be retained. The Proximal phalanx, if not wholly involved in injury or disease should not be entirely sacrificed in the case of working men, , when the forefinger is the injured digit, or when the other fingers upon the radial side of the partially injured one have required complete amputation. When the operation is required, it may be performed according to any Fig. 376. Amputation of the finger, at the distal articulation.