THE HEALTHY HEALING SORE. 109 and bogumiug to drain away, renewal is had recourse to. For not only is the "condition filthy, and as such affecting injuriously not only the patient but those around; but, besides, the discharge, becoming subject to chemical change, grows irritant, and may induce degeneration in the sore, of an inflammatory type. There is then a necessity for change. But, until such necessity occur, let no change be made; inasmuch as it cannot be effected, however delicately, without some injury bemg done to the tender surface by admission of atmospheric influence, as well as by rude mechanical contact. And by the oft repetition of this, again in- flammatory degeneration may be induced. The " nimia diligentia " of surgery is fraught with manifold injury; and is an error against which the junior practitioner should especially guard. In practical surgery, nothing, however simple in itself it may appear, should be done without a good and substantial reason for its use. Another error, at least equally pernicious with too frequent dressing, is an affected nicety in making the change of application ; not only wiping away the redundancy of discharge, but insisting on perfect cleanness of the surface of the sore itself, till it look pretty and red ; washing, spong- ing, rubbing, irrigating; thwarting iN'ature in one of her most beneficial acts ; taking away, clumsily and rudely, the best protection of the tender surface; and invoking inflammatory accession, or tendency thereto, with consequent degeneration of the sore. At each dressing, gently wipe away pus from the surrounding integument, but do not interfere with that which covers and protects the granulations; our dressing is subsidiary to this, and ought not to supersede it. The means whereby the cleansing is effected are also a matter of some moment. Usually, it is by a sponge. But this is likely to prove injurious ; especially in the wards of an hospital. A sponge is a thing of some value, in the eyes of a patient or nurse ; and not to be Hghtly parted with. It is used not for one patient only, but for many, or alL It becomes soaked with discharge, of various kinds ; it is hastily and im- perfectly cleansed, after each employment; and, ere its daily course is run, can hardly fail to have been the means of conveying noxious matter to previously healthy sores ; inducing their degeneration, and perhaps exciting the serious complication of erysipelas. Instead of sponge there- fore, especially in hospital practice, let fine tow, lint, or soft linen rag be used as the cleaning agent; a thing of no value ; and which, consequently, may be burnt as soon as used, and have no opportunity of carrying con- tamination. And, generally speaking, the basin of cold water, usually in attendance during the dressing, may be well dispensed with too. Dry and gentle wiping of the surrounding skin, leaving the actual sore un- touched, is aU that is required. More is not only unnecessary, but toler- ably certain to prove injurious ; it belongs to the " nimia diligentia." But our attention must not be entirely engrossed with the part. In all kinds of ulcers, the state of the system must be constantly regarded. As this deteriorates, so will the sore ; and vice versa. Indeed, a glance at the character of a sore is one of the best means for ascertaining the condition of the system; the ulcer telling as truthfully as the tongue, pulse, or countenance. In the treatment of the simple healthy sore, it is plainly our duty, therefore, to rectify error in the system, if such exist,