982 TUMOUKS OF THE BREAST, slightly altered. And there is some reason to believe that these cysts may sometimes originate in partial lacteal dilatation. The existence of a cystic element in such a tumour is rendered probable, by the irregular outline of the swelling, the more or less perfect sense of fluctua- tion experienced at the most prominent parts, and sometimes by the bluish translucency of the skin where tensely stretched. When the cysts are simple, serous, and uncomplicated by any suspicious solid structitre, by puncturing the sac, and afterwards applying a blister, or injecting iodine, the tumour may diminish, consolidate, and gradually disappear. Eut when the whole gland is involved, especially if the growth is painful and large, extirpation should be at once had recourse to ; not only because other treatment will prove unsuccessful, but because such tumours are well known to be pecuharly prone to develope malignant characters, more especially when irritated. True Hydatids are also found in the gland. "When single, they may be got rid of by puncture and injection. When numerous, ablation of the part is ex- pedient. The Malignant Tumours of the mamma are unfortunately of proverbial frequency; more especially carcinoma or scirrhu.s. The general characters of this tumour are not departed from; the chief peculiarity being in the nipple, which, early involved, is remarkably retracted, hardened, and shrivelled in appearance. The glands of the axilla, too, are liable to be soon affected. The disease is recognised by the age of the patient, usually between forty and fifty ; by the hardness of the tumour, like cartilage or wood ; by the lancinating character of the pain, the rate and mode of growth, the involvement of the skin and retraction of the nipple, the implication of the pectoral muscle and axilla, and the cachectic state of the system as evidenced by the counte- nance and general appearance. The only cure is by extirpation ; but it is only a small number, of the many cases which present themselves to the surgeon, which warrant operation; and it may be well to repeat here, that if the skin be diffusely brawny, or so much involved that it cannot be wholly removed, if the nipple be much retracted, if there be a marked depression over the tumour, indicating usually adhesion of this to the pectoral muscle or to the ribs, if the pulse is persistently above 100, if there be complaint of general rheumatic pains, or if other ominous signs exist of some obscure yet serious disorder proceeding within, and if there be glands so affected and attached that they cannot be taken away —these, being all singly most unfavourable, and betokening relapse, do most certainly, when coming together, contra-indicate all operative inter- ference. There are cases, however, where, althougli the prognosis is unfavour- able, the operation may be undertaken ; as, for example, when the glands are affected, but only those close to the margin of the tumour, and quite within reach ;—or when the cancer is in the open condition, but the glands as yet unaffected. Also, when the horribly foetid ichorous dis- charge and the severe pain of an advanced and hopeless cancer make the patient's life perfectly unsupportable, while the general strength con- tinues good, if the patient demands the possible rehef which operation may afford, in preference to the miserable progress of the disease, if left alone, the practitioner is quite justified in resorting to operative inter-