156 TUMOUliS. guarantee that tlicy shall not be reproduced, in tlie same or another site; in one sense they are not thoinsolves a local disease, but rathei- the local indications of a disease which has a constitutional seat and origin. Of the simple or non-malignant tumours, take the adipose or the fibrous as examples ; of the malignant, the scirrhous or the medullary. "With respect to structure, malignant tumours are in general heter- ologous, differing essentially from all the known tissues of the body; while the non-malignant are more commonly analogous, or similar to some of these tissues. The latter may present the appearance of fib- rous tissue, fat, cartilage, bone, blood-vessels, etc. ; and the difierent varieties of non-malignant tumours are in fact designated from the tissue which they resemble. On the other hand, the truly malignant growths, while presenting considerable varieties, have also general resemblances to each other, so strong as to entitle them, in the opinion of the best observers, to be considered as varieties of one disease, and as depending on the constitutional affection ordinarily described as Cancer. As a middle class between the Simple and Malignant tumours, may be placed what are ordinarily termed the Recurrents, as first named by Mr. Syme, and specially described by Mr. Paget, Dr. Bennett, and others ; growths apparently simple in their characters, both natural and micro- scopic, but which nevertheless are prone to recur even after complete removal. The great majority of tumours are enveloped by a c]jst. In some— those commonly called Encysted—it is the original and essential part of the structure ; by secretion from which the contents of the tumour are produced ; and in extirpation the whole of this cyst must be either removed or destroyed, otherwise reproduction is certain. In others, as the adipose, the cyst, or capsule—as perhaps it might be more pro- perly called—is constituted secondarily, and consists merely of ordi- nary areolar tissue condensed into a membranous appearance by the pressure of the enlarging tumour; it adheres loosely to the growth, and is to be regarded as no part of its structure ; and when the tumour is removed, this cyst or capsule may remain, without any chance of re- production. Certain tumours of a suspicious character, and yet not of avowed malignancy—as some examples of the cystic sarcoma—are enve- loped in a stout cyst which is truly part of their structure, having become secondarily, if not originally, incorporated with it; and this cyst must be taken wholly away, if we wish the operation to be satisfactory and complete. The malignant tumours usiially are limited by no cyst; it is their nature to invade and involve neighbouring texture, not to condense and push it aside. Sometimes, however, a fibrous expansion for a time resists the invasion, and, while so successful, assumes the place and character of an ordinary cyst. That too, in extirpation, must be taken away, even though as yet not fully incorporated with the diseased struc- ture. Some tumours, though homologous and non-malignant, have no limit- ing capsule, but are continuous with the primary structures from Avhich they spring ; growths of rather than in them. Such often receive the dis- tinctive term of outgroivih ; and familiar examples are found in polypi of the mucous surface, and fibrous growths from the Avails of the Avoml).