1312 FRA.CTURES OF THE FEMOK. before the long splint is applied. In all cases wlien the straight position is employed, a stoiit liat board of wood should be placed beneath the mattress to prevent it from sinking, and thus rendering tlie displacement greater than it would otherwise be. But, in some cases, the double- inclined plane may be preferable—Maclntyre's splint, simplified and improved by Listen ; the displacement of tlie upper fragment being thus humoured, while the lower part of the limb is brouglit up to it. Some have advised that the trunk should also be somewhat elevated ; to relax the muscles of the minor trochanter. But this can only inci'ease the sinking of the pelvis, with the consequent risk of further deformity from increased displacement of the upper end of the bone. Whatever plan is pursued, the great and important indication is to keep the limb as steady and as nearly straight as possible, and to prevent eversion of the foot. In children, a starched apparatus, with a leather splint moulded to the hip and outer aspect of the thigh, will generally serve better to keep the parts in position than any more formal apparatus. In such cases, it is well to varnish the bandaging; and so to prevent the neces- sity for frequent renewal of dressings on the score of cleanliness. VI. Fracture of the Shaft near its Middle.—Here the signs of the injury are self-evident—pain, powerlessness, mobility, crepitus. Dis- placement is usually great, and the deformity well marked. The upper fragment, at the seat of fracture, lies in front; both fragments together form an angle outwards, and the foot and limb below the seat of injuiy are rotated outwards, the foot lying on its fibular side. The fracture is usually a comminuted one, or oblique ; rendering it therefore difficult to bring the broken surfaces into such apposition as shall prevent displace- ment and shortening of the Limb ensuing, however careful the treatment. The retentive apparatus should consist of the long sphnt. Malgaigne, however, recommends the double-inclined plane; the latter bent to a tolerably acute angle, so as to make the weight of the pelvis and trunk a means of eifecting the requisite extension. In ill-adjusted cases, not only is deformity great by shortening, ever- siou of the foot, and angulation at the part; the knee is apt to become weak and loose ; the Hgament of the patella, from relaxation of the quad- riceps, proving altogether inert. YII. Fracture above the Condyles.—This is usually the result 6i direct violence. The line of fracture is nearly transverse. Sometimes there is no appreciable displacement, and then the crepitus is with difficulty detected ; sometimes the displacement is lateral, but more commonly the upper fragment projects forwards, pushing the patella before it. The lower fragment has been represented as passing back- wards, by the action of the popliteus and gastrocnemius. This, however, is a mistake ; apparently originating with Boyer, and diHgently copied from him by more modern writers. The lower fragment really retains its place, and only seems to project towards the popliteal space, because of the displacement of the upper fragment, which may be so considerable as to penetrate muscles and skin, and so render the case compound. Effusion into the Imee-joint is a constant accompaniment of this fracture ; and may prove a serious inconvenience ; not only from the acute symptoms which may attend upon it during treatment, but by afterwards