CHRONIC OKCHITIS. 1227 to obviate the tendency to fungous protrusion which the substance of the testicle may manifest. Chronic Orchitis, and Ftmgus of the Testicle. Chronic orchitis may be the result of an acute attack, imperfectly resolved ; or—as more frequently happens—the affection may be chronic from the first; it also may be either primary or secondary—that is, occurring as an independent affection, or as a consequence of gonorrhoea. Very frequently, it depends on strictiu-e of the urethra ; not unfrequently it is of syphilitic origin. The body of the testicle is completely involved, as well as the epididymis—though the latter is usually first affected. The SAvelling, at first irregular, extends from the lower part of the epididymis, and involves the whole organ in a firm, inelastic, uniform tumour, usually of an oval form, and seldom exceeding twice or three times the bulk of the healthy gland. The attendant uneasiness is slight; and after some time, the characteristic sensibility of the organ under pressure is in a great measure lost. The enlargement is found to depend in part on the formation of a yellow, cheesy, fibrinous, or purulent product; condensed, non-vascular —intra-tubular, as well as in the interposed areolar tissue. On making a section of the tumour, after removal, the product and its peculiar cha- racters are very apparent. Slow softening of this may take place ; matter is formed; the swelling increases, with subacute exacerbation; the integument thins, and gives way; and through the opening the tubular structiire protrudes, in the form of a hard, firm, light-coloured, comparatively painless, and slowly increasing fungus. The softening, in such a case, is but partial, and the amount of suppuration sliglit. Not unfrequently, opening and protrusion take place apparently without the intervention of any such affection; the tunica albuginea gives way, under gradual increase of product; the tunica vaginalis becomes adherent at this point; and then the integument soon yields also. If the opening be small, the protrusion may be proportionally trifling. But, sometimes, almost the whole of the organ projects; its surface studded with granulations, from which a copious thin secretion is discharged. Chronic orchitis requires the ordinary discussive means for its arrest and removal; and abstraction of the cause, when practicable, is not to be omitted. Simple enlargements of the testicle always lead to a suspicion of stricture in the urethra; and that canal is examined accordingly. If the stricture be found, it must be removed, before any amendment can be expected from treatment directed towards the testicle. When syphilis is the originating cause—indicated by the history of the case, moderate size, and slow progress of the tumour, the concurrence of other syphilitic signs, and sometimes by nocturnal exacerbations of pain in the testicle and loins—that taint must be combated by the appropriate means ; and cautious mercurialism may be required. The enlarged testicle, mean- while, may be treated most advantageously by being surrounded by a gum and mercurial plaster ; thereafter, producing steady encircling pres- sure, either by a narrow bandage, or by strips of adhesive plaster.