175 CANCER CELLS. found in the cancers of quickest growth. In structure and general aspect they most neai-ly resemble the secreting gland-cells. Exannned imme- diately after removal, and without addition of water, they appear clear and neai-ly pellucid; hut changes quickly ensue, which water accelerates, and which bring them to the characters more generally ascribed to cancer-cells. They become ne- bulous, or dimly granular, or dotted, as if contahiing minute molecules ; and they look no longer quite colourless, but very lightly greyish or yellowish. The cell-wall is, if it can be seen at all, particularly thin and deli- cate ; but it is often impossible to discern any. The nuclei are more constant in their appearances than the cells, and even more characteristic. They are always comparatively large, having an average long diameter of about 2 5^0 0 of an inch, and varying from this size much less than the cells do from theirs. They are regular, oval, or nearly round, clear, weU-defined, scarcely altered by commencing decomposition, or by water, or any mode- rately diluted test substance. A certain number of free nuclei are usually Fiff. 63. Fig. 64. found. Each nucleus has one, two, or rarely more, nucleoli, which, like itseh^ are large in comparison with the ordinary proportion between nucleoli and cells, and one peculiarly bright and well defined. These structures are apt to degenerate; and are to be found so changed, more or less, in. most tumom^s; withered, or containing fatty matter, or broken down with nuclei lying loose in the debris. Erom such " typical cells" the minute structure of the varieties of cancer differ, more or less, as will afterwards be stated. The cells of mahgnant growths are in such numbers that they com- municate a yellowish creamy character to the viscid fluid, which can be squeezed or scraped in considerable abundance from the surface of a sec- tion. Tliis creamy fluid is very characteristic, in general, of such tumours ; and distingaiishes them especially from the fibrous growths, which are dry in section, and yield only a minute quantity of serum or blood on pressure. All malignant tumours resemble one another in most of their essen- tial characteristics ; and yet they differ so far as to warrant a classifica- tion. Practically, it seems convenient to arrange the varieties as follows : 1. Scirrhus, Carcinoma, or hard cancer; 2. Epithelioma ; 3. Medullary or soft cancer; 4. Melanotic, or black cancer; 5. Colloid cancer; G. Eun- gus haimatodes. Fig. 63. Cancer cells, with their stroma.—Paget. Fig. 64. Cliaractevistic caiicc.r-cells of scirrlins.—Pap.kt.