354 RESULTS OF DISEASE OF CARTILAGE. Fig. 152. great, while suppuration has not taken place and an abscess not formed, as to make the nicasuremont of the joint greater than that of the corresponding sound one—and it comes on at a period long subsequent to the feeling of uneasiness in -the part. In chronic degeneration of the synovial membrane, on the other hand, the swelling is early, slow, and somewhat uniform; elastic, doughy, and superficial—not deep and obscurely fluctuating, like that which attends on affection of the harder tissue. The latter swelling, too, is intolerant of pressure, pain being thereby much increased; while the other, on the contrary, so long as suppuration is not impending, is caj)able of bearing manipulation with comparative impunity. When swelling has become fully established, the disease is no longer hmited to the cartilage ; it has involved all textures. Pus accumulates ; change of structure takes place in the synovial membrane and textures exterior ; the ligamentous apparatus relaxes, and the joint becomes pre- ternaturally loose; and, if moved freely, grating of the articular osseous surfaces is felt, and intense suffering occasioned to the patient; ultimately the capsule gives way, and the fluid escapes from, the joint, frequently by a small aperture, but collecting in quan- tity external to the joint, makes its way to the surface, and is thence discharged. In consequence of this increased laxity, the joint, which previously may have assumed the position of semiflexion, may become wholly luxated ; the flexor muscles having then to encounter but little opposition to their displacing force; and ordinarily there is also more or less rotation, or other displacement ; one muscle, or set of muscles, exerting a supremacy of power. Thus, in such afi'ection of the knee, the bones of the leg are dislocated backwards mto the popliteal space ; and at the same time the head of the tibia is usually rotated outwards, by the preponderating action of the biceps flexor cruris. Such important local changes are not unattended with sympathy of the system. At first the constitutional symptoms may be but shght; little more than general discomfort, or slight feverish ness, being com- plained of But when pain becomes undoubted and steadily crescent, inflammatory fever is declared with more or less intensity; usually, accompanied by involuntary startings of the aff"ected hmb—especially during sleep—by the jarring and motion of which the pain is fearfully aggravated, and the inflammatory process hurried on in its destructiAc tendency. Ultimately, in the open, lax, discharging, perhaps dislocated state of the part, hectic is inevitable. The results are various. Eesolution may occur, at an early period oi the process ; the disease having given way to rest and counter-irritation, without any morbid products having been poured out, and with only shght and superficial destruction. Or disintegration, having occurred, Fig. 152. Luxation of hip, in consequence of niorhn.s coxariu.i.