TORSION. 224 should be cut away, the other being left pendent from the wound ; iu order that separation and discharge of the noose, Avith its enclosed slough, may be Avatched and made certain. By some, both ends are cut away ; in the belief that adhesion in thus favoured, throughout the line of wound—as doubtless it is ; and in the hope that the noose will become encysted, and give no further annoy- ance—as certainly it will not. Adhesion under such circumstances is somewhat of a misfortune. For the noose and its contained slough are to all intents and purposes foreign matter; as such, their presence will be resented by the surrounding living textures ; and, as such, they will be extruded by suppuration. Sooner or later—often after cure has ap- parently been completed—deep abscess forms ; painfully and slowly having approached the surface, pus is discharged—and with it, its cause, the noose. Not until this latter has been put forth, will the pain and discharge cease. Or, before this, the arterial coats may have been too far encroached on by the pent-up collection ; they have become ulcerated, perhaps at a part where the canal is yet free ; and secondary bleeding ensues, 8. Torsion.—This is an imitation of the means whereby the lower animals, in parturition, by gnawing and twisting the umbilical cord, in- stinctively arrest its hemorrhage ; and an adaptation of the general fact, that torn arteries, more readily and effectually than the cut, undergo b Pig. 100. natural hemostatics. The arterial orifice is pulled outwards, by forceps, to the extent of half an inch or so. The base of this isolated part is then seized transversely by other forceps, which hold it secui'ely ; and by which at the point grasped the internal and middle coats are divided. While this instrument is steadily held, the extremity of the vessel is, by means of the evellent forceps, twisted several times upon itself. It is then left pendent in the wound. This method is only applicable to arteries of the middle class. The small vessels cannot be so treated easily; the large cannot be so treated with safety. In every wound, therefore, wherein the three classes of vessels are implicated, some ligatures must at all events be applied; and it is not easy to see what disadvantage can accrue from deligation being extended to all. Application of a hgature can be effected in fully as short a time as torsion; and when applied, the ligature is undoubtedly a . more certain hemostatic. The twisted portion of the vessel must slough and separate ; the noose of a ligature is not more truly, or to a greater extent, a foreign body. Torsion, therefore, is never superior to ligature; and it is doubtful whether, under any circumstances, it may be consi- ■ Fig. 100. Torsion forceps ; a, the points accnratcly and sharply serrated, so as to > bite deeply into the arterial coats ; b, the slide which, when slnit, secures the vessel in the embrace of the instrument.