739 TREATMENT OF POLYPUS. often also at an early period of the case—pain is complained of in the head, especially in the forehead. In the minor cases, it is essential that diagnosis he accurate. Symp- toms are not trusted to alone. The speculum or finger must he employed, so as to explore the nasal cavity ; enahling us to ascertain whether the obstruction depends on nascent polypus or not. For the disease is apt 0 be simulated. There may he merely a general congestion of the lining emhrane. Or there may he a bulging of the septum to one side, with ,r without congestion of the membrane on the convexity of the bulge, here may be abscess forming between the septum and its investing emhrane. Or there may be a hypertrophied condition of the spongy one. Any of these circumstances may produce more or less occlusion f the nostril, increase of secretion, snuffling of speech, and to some ixtent the symptoms of polypus. By use of the speculum, or the intro- .uction of the finger well-oiled, if the opening of the nostrils will admit the true condition of parts may easily be determined. If there is no polypus, no operative interference is required. For ongestion, abstraction of blood and astringent lotions are sufficient, with inic treatment constitutionally. Abscess of the septum may be pre- ented by leeching; when matter forms it requires evacuation. Displace- ent of the septum, and enlargement of bone, call for no interference. Eemoval of the common polypus is effected by steady and continuous ling in one direction, by means of ^all-bladed but strong, well- iated, and toothed, slightly curved forceps; and in using them, care ould be taken to apply the forcej^s as closely as possible to the neck of .e tumour, so as to insure removal of the entire mass j while gentleness used, so as to avoid, as far as possible, any unnecessary tearing of the ■binated bones. The size of the polypus can be approximately esti- ated, by the degree of interruption to forcible expiration through the stril. When this is complete, the presence of a polypus occuj)ying .e posterior nares may be certainly diagnosed : and our efforts at reliev- g the patient should not stop at removing what can be seen of the lypus—^in fact, we must persevere until he can blow freely through e nostril. In removing the polypi, when situated posteriorly, the eatest assistance may be obtained by passing two fingers of the left .nd behind the soft palate upwards, to the opening of the posterior es, so as to secure accurate seizure of the growth by the blades of the ps before proceeding to twist it away. In other cases, when the lypous mass is large, and can be seen in the fauces projecting the soft [late before it, removal of the mass will be expedited by seizing it by ■ns of a volsella, so as to strain upon the growth when the neck is d away. As the mucous polypi are generally numerous, the smaller [es may elude detection when the larger are removed, and being left nd, may then develope themselves quickly in the absence of the sure which formerly interfered with their growth. Hence an apparent 'reduction of the disease may occur, and require at the end of months, a year, a repetition of the operation. Of this the patient may be Avarned,' prevent disappointment. After clearance of the nostril has been cted, the cavity may be plugged with lint; to arrest bleeding, and vent the access of cold air to the raw surface.