AFFECTIONS OF THE TYMPANUM. 835 some intorforonco with heai-iiig, usually worse in damp, and improving in di-y Aveathor. Sometimes tinnitus is present, sometimes not. On desiring him to swallow, or to attempt forcible inflation of the cavity of the tympanum, on air enters the cavity; while by using the Eusta- chian catheter and the otoscope, a gurgling or bubbling sound is pro- duced by the passage of air into the fluid, and its displacement from the cavity. Such cases are frequently found to be associated with enlarged ton- sils, or with a congested and thickened condition of the mucous mem- brane of the fauces. The disease is thus apparently an extension of a chronic affection of the pharyngeal mucous membrane and its glandular structures. The treatment should, therefore, consist not merely in employing gentle counter-irritation, such as friction with a liniment composed of tinctiu-e of soap and tincture of cantharides, behind the ear, but in the apphcation to the throat of such agents, more particularly nitrate of silver or tincture of iodine, as are calculated to restore the mucous membrane of the fauces to a healthy state. Should enlarged tonsils exist, they should always be removed as an essential preliminary. Constitutionally, tonics, and alteratives, such as iron, cod-liver oil, iodine, and Donovan's solution, shoiild be administered according to the state of the patient's system. Thickening of the mucous membrane of the tympanum may exist without perforation of the membrana tymj)ani; but dissection proves this to be rare. As an accompaniment of such perforation, or as a result of the same inflammatory process which produced it, a tliickening of the mucous membrane, resembling the flabby granulations of a weak ulcer, may be seen by means of the speculum; and when the perforation is large, and the granulations prominent, this may by a careless or inex- perienced observer be mistaken for a polypus of the external auditory canal. In such circumstances, should we be sure that no disease exists in the bone forming the walls of the tympanum, nitrate of silver in sub- stance, in powder, or in solution, may be applied through the aperture in the membrane. By some a solution of caustic potash has been recom- mended in the treatment of this affection, on the ground, probably, that it has been found of use in (the not in the least analogous condition) granular conjunctiva. When disease of the bone exists, the less meddling, . beyond keeping the meatus clean and the perforation of the membrane unobstructed, the safer and better for the patient. There seems no suf- ficient means of diagnosis to justify a resort to any treatment, in cases presumed to be of the nature of thickening of the mucous membrane of the tympanic cavity, when no aperture exists in the membrana tym- pani. No doubt a congested, opaque, thickened, pinlcy membrana tym- pani, an obstructed Eustachian tube, and a nondescript sound when the otoscope and Eustachian catheter are employed, as of something entcr- tS^ ^^^^ '^^^^^ neither the full free thud of a healthy ear, nor the mucous rale of a tympanic cavity containing fluid—have been mentioned as symptomatic of this state of matters. These symptoms appear to us hardly definite enough; implying as they do "absolute certamty on tlio part of the observer, before he comes to any conclusion Whatever, that his Eustachian cathctor is really in the canal—of which