6'J 8 iKins. enlarged lymphatics leading from the site of the indurated chancre i^ the trunk, three forms of the disease in tlie iris have been recogiii8e( i The fird or serous, implicating the surface of the iris only, and accoin panying the cxanthematous syphilitic eruptions, is attended with con siderable muddiness of the aquooiis humour, Avhich becomes of a pal yellow tint from admixture with the colouring matter of the blood, an tones the hue of the discoloured iris of a more or less buff or rusl\ tint, but admits of the fibrous structure of the iris being recogniscil thi-ough it. The cornea is usually, especially in its loAver half, dotted over with minute pin-point marking, of a saffron hue. In the secov - form of syphilitic iiitis, usually accompanied by the scaly eruption upojj the surface, the texture of the iris seems as if infiltrated and thickened, and its colour in the part affected is of a coppery hue; the thickenin often affecting principally that part close to the pupil, and forming a of discoloured texture. The fibrinous product of the inflammatory cess is sometimes produced in considerable quantity ; commencing as fine filmy layer, but gradually increasing by fresh additions to its The third form of syphilitic iritis is usually met with during tlie secondary and early tertiary symptoms, and is associated with the pust crustaceous eruptions. Here fibrinous nodules of a brownish-ruddy varying in number and size, stud the surface of the iris, or occupy t pupillary margin, sometimes forming close to the point of junction o: the iris, cornea, and sclerotic. As they enlarge they soften, the cen becomes more and more yellow in tint, sometimes very closely rese bling a pustule in appearance, and, giving way, a yellow creamy fl- gravitates to the bottom of the aqueous humour, thus producing Hi pion; or, should the pustule be situated at the junction of the com and sclerotic and iris, the pus may escape externally. In some cases t' pus is mixed with blood ; or blood may be extravasated from the engorg vessels of the iris, at an early period of any of these unhealthy forms o iritis—constituting inflammatory Hypooema. In all cases of syphilitic iritis the vascular zone in the sclerotic well marked, no general sclerotic congestion having occurred. intolerance of light is slightly developed, and sometimes quite absent the impairment of vision is always decided. The pain has general!, marked exacerbations, usually occurring at night. There is nothing characteristic in the form of the pupil, as to make it distinctive as means of diagnosis. Our prognosis in such cases depends entirely npo the degree of structural change produced by the inflammatory pr< The second and third forms, occurring in cachectic patients, are alway followed by more or less permanent deterioration of vision. Sypliiliti iritis* occiirs sometimes in children and infants, as a part of tlio many festation of the constitutional disease transmitted to them. It is liowevei rare, as a symptom of syphilis in children, compared with its frequenc)! in adults. Indeed, the local symptoms are seldom well marked, am hence its infrequency is apparently greater than it really is ; for tli sclerotic congestion is never characteristic, and the distinctions ju, described as occurring in adults cannot be made out in the case o infants. "When the disease docs occur in them, however, the qiiantit. * Hutchison, OpIitliMlmic TTos].itiil rji'iiort.s, l.st vol. 1S58.