TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. 474 the use of sutures is never expedient—Avith sucli exception as has already been stated; it is Avorse than folly to drag and retain parts in contact which cannot adhere, and which must inflame and separate. Wo never atteuipt to make the coaptation complete; we would not liavc it so, were it in our power. The parts are simply replaced, and retained, as nearly as possible in their natural situation, by careful attention to position. In some cases, a strip or two of plaster may be useful; as when a flap is loose, and threatens to be pendulous. Then the watci- dressing is applied; at first cold, to suppress ooziug; afterwards tepid, to prove comfortable to the part, and yet not to favour return of bleed- ing. As the inflammatory process sets -in, after some hours, it is gi'a- dually made hot, and frequently renewed; in order to moderate the process, relax the part, and favour secretion. As the inflammatory pro- cess subsides—usually in a day or two—the temperature is diminished, until the dressing is simply protective and detergent; to continue a high temperature then, would be to encourage the uutowardly relaxing and congestive effects formerly spoken of Should the granulating sore begin to evince symptoms of deficient power, the dressing is medicated, stimulantly, in the ordinary way. Uniform support by bandaging, when suitable to the form of the part, is usually expedient in these cases, from a comparatively early period. It must always, however, be employed with caution. If pres- sure be had recoiu?se to unnecessarily, if it be partially and unequally applied, if it be of undue severity, or if its use be unnecessarily pro- longed, inflammatory mischief cannot fail to ensue—in any wound. In some cases, the inflammatory process, j)roving excessive, may cause sloughing around the wound ; thereby uutowardly enlarging its extent, and protracting the cure. To avert this, more active antiphlogistics may sometimes be required; abstraction of blood from the part, and, it may be, from the system also ; along with other ordinary antiphlogistic means. Constitutional treatment, so long as the inflammatory stage persists, is antiphlogistic ; proportioned in severity to the amount and kind of the affection. Towards the latter part of the cure, when suppuration is profuse, and contraction sIoav, a generous regimen becomes expedient; and even powerful tonics and stimuli may be required. Sometimes the case may be so managed, that adhesion is ingi'afted on granulation. Eor example, in deep suppurating wounds (as after ampu- tation), Avhich, by fulness of their edges, admit of complete and easy approximation, water-dressing may be discontinued under certain circum- stances, and plasters applied in the same manner as recommended for adhesion. This fortunate period is, when the inflammatory process has receded so far as to be merely sufficient for the formation of healthy granulations. At this time, the discharge is in A'^ery small quantity; and the divided surfaces are almost as prone to coalesce, firmly and per- manently, as in the glazed condition, formerly spoken of, Avhich occurs ' soon after cessation of the immediate hemorrhage. Consequently, Avhen the Avatclifal surgeon seizes upon this opportunity, and, discontinuing his second intcntioji treatment, places and retains the parts in close and accurate apposition, it is more than probable that cohesion Avill then