OHAPTEE LXVII. INJUEIES or THE LOWER EXTEEMITIES. Fractures. Fractures of the Pelvis. The "bones of the pelvis give way only under great and crusliing force ; a heavy weight, for example, passing over or falling on the part. There is but little apparent displacement, so that the precise extent of injury can seldom be made out except an opportunity for dissection of the parts occur. The great risk is from injury done to the important parts within. The bladder may be torn, or it may be punctured by a spiculum, as formerly noticed; a portion of bowel may be ruptured ; the anterior branches of the sacral plexus may be torn, or stretched injuriously, over the displaced surface of the sacro-ihac synchondrosis ; or great extrava- sation of blood may occur. From such lesions of structure, immediate danger to life results. A risk somewhat more remote follows mere bruise of the interior; the inflammatory process being hghted up within, and advancing both rapidly and untowardly. Or instead of union, abscess may form at the site of fracture. 1, A waggon-wheel, rolling over the pelvis, may detach the Crest of the Hium from the body of the bone. The upper fragment is dis- placed inwards; and replacement may be effected by the fingers, ere swelling has occurred. TJie anterior superior iliac sj)ine may be de- tached by direct violence; the displacement is usually inwards and downwards. 2. From a heavy and high fall, fracture of the Sacrum may result. The fracture, when longitudinal, is not accompanied by displacement; when, however, it is transverse or oblique, the coccygeal fragment is moved inwards. 3. A kick or fall may cause fi-acture of the Coccyx, and there may be considerable displacement inwards ; frac- ture may also be occasioned by passage of the foetal head from the pelvic outlet. By means of the finger in the rectum, accurate read- ju.stment may be eifected j and it is very obvious that, in the after treatment, both purgation and constipation are to be avoided. 4. The Os Pubis may give way in its horizontal, or in its descending i-amus. These two fractures either occur together, or the former is complicated by a solution of continuity in the ascending ramus of the ischium. 5. The ascending ramus of the Ischium is as frequently broken as any other part of the pelvis. In the two last mentioned injuries, the hno of fracture may involve the pubes and ischium on both sides; or the sacro-iliac synchondrosis upon the opposite side, or even upon both