IDIOPATHIC ANEURISM. 391 Fig. 169. bUud sac, where blood stagnates, or whence rather it will regurgitate. Or the dissection may be complete ; there being a second aperture of com- munication with the artery, at the extremity of the hiatus, through which the stray current of blood again joins the main stream. Such dissections may be of slight extent, or they may occupy several inches of the vessel. The variety is of comparatively rare occurrence; and is seldom found affecting any artery except the aorta. It is useful to remember that the aneurism is sometimes connected with the artery by means of a nar- row neck of considerable extent, in- stead of the abnormal cavity being bluffly set upon the normal tube. The fundus of the pulsating tumour may consequently project several inches from its arterial origin ; and, in certain situations, as at the root of the neck, diagnosis is thence ren- dered obscure. An aneurism there may seem to be of the innominata, or of the first third of the subclavian, while in truth it is of the aorta. Such a tumour is said to be Pedun- culated. Aneurism is also said to be either Limited or Diffuse. In the one case it is bound within the limits of a proper cystj in the other, having either burst tlirough this, or been originally devoid of it, blood is widely diffused by infiltration into the surrounding tissues. The idiopathic aneurism is at first invariably limited; but it may be- come diffuse by giving way of the cyst, from disintegration or lacera- tion. The occurrence is always secondary. Iii trdumatic or accidental aneurism, on the contrary—dependent on Isesion not originated by disease in the arterial tissue—the form may be diffuse or not at first, according to circumstances. If the escape of blood be sudden, great, and violent, no distinct restraining cyst can form; infiltration is wide and free ; and the diffuse variety may be said to be at onde established ; or rather, perhaps, the case might be termed one of internal hemorrhage, with infiltration— likely to choke circulation of the limb, and threaten mortification. Or the escape of blood from the wound being less intense and copious, a cyst forms by condensation ; which subsequently may give way, however, under some fresh exciting cause; and then, as in the idiopathic form, the "diffuse" condition is secondary—sometimes for weal, more fre- quently for woe. Fig. 169. Anourism, of a double cyst. The first had given way ; tlie tumour tlioii became dilFuse ; but the second cyst formed, of uon-arteruil tissue.—Sir C. Bell.