441 TREATMENT OF VAKIX. ami tends to exacerbation at each menstrual period. The congestion of the pelvic viscera and efferent veins, affording a reniora to free circulation through the external iliac veins, probably serves to explain this undoubted correlation of varix with the commencement and progress of menstruation. As already stated, a predisposing cause is also probably in operation in many cases ; namely, venous degeneration—in some respects analogous to the chronic change favourable to dilatotion of the arterial tissue. The parts of the venous system most frequently affected are—the superficial veins of the lower limbs, and of the abdominal parietes; the veins of the spermatic cord; and the lower hemorrhoidal veins, at the verge of the anus. Sometimes varix occurs in the upper extremities, in consequence of sudden and violent muscular exertion, which may have caused partial laceration of the venous coats, at one or more points, after- wards followed by obstruction. Treatment.—A spontaneous cure may result, by the accession of plastic inflammatory change in the affected veins; their canals becoming consolidated, and constituting a hard indolent swelling, which, by absorption, ultimately disappears ; and the blood finding another outlet, by a collateral route. Like the spontaneous cure of aneurism, however, this is not sufficiently frequent to allow of its being trusted to in practice. Cure must be sought, not merely hoped for. It may be palKative or radical. 1. Palliative.—Bearing in mind what was formerly stated regarding the propriety of not unnecessarily interfering with the venous tissue by operation, and also remembering that varix is in many cases rather a deformity and inconvenience than a disease of itself dangerous to life, it will be readily understood how this mode of treatment should be regarded as the more generally applicable. It consists in removal or modification of the cause, and in affording support to the dilated vessels. The rectum is emptied, and kept habitually clear, by suitable laxatives ; and if other compressing agents are in force, they too must be removed, so far as may lie in our power. In the case of pregnancy, we patiently wait for the natural relief by parturition. If hepatic derangement be indicated, the suitable remedies must be employed. All external liga- tures on the limb—as garters—must be removed. All menstrual irregularities should be attended to ; and, if painful, the patient should maintaia the recumbent posture during the menstrual access. The erect posture should not, when varix is fully developed, be long maintained at any one time. And uniform support of the affected part is to be afforded, by bandaging or a laced stocking—or by what is better than either, in most cases, an elastic stocking ; well fitted, and tight enough to diminish the venous calibre and volume of blood; not only preventing increase of the disorder, but giving an opportunity for con- traction and partial recovery, should sufficient tone remain; yet slack enough to admit of motion, and free circulation of the limb. It the patient do not grudge the leisure and confinement, more active measures may be adopted. Maintaining the recumbent posture, pressure may be ajjplied with more intensity, and without chance of interruption ; a« by Iho starclied bandage, or by encasing the limb in a mould of gyp- sum. After the perseverance of a week or two, the dressings may bo