1202 TBEATMENT OF INFANTILE SYPHILIS. throat, and nostrils—seem to be best; while sulphate of copper lotion, or black-wash, two grains to the ounce, form suitable dressings for the ulcers upon the surface. The treatment of the child should never be commenced until the symptoms are distinctly present, and should be continued, in regard to mercurials, as lung as any symptom of syphilis remains. If commenced within the first ten or twenty days after birth, it is rare to find it necessary to continue the remedy longer than three months. If Iodide of Potassium or Iodine in any form is employed, it is best given in the form of baths, or fomentations applied to the surface. Acquired Syphilis, as abeady stated, is supposed to be capable of development in a variety of ways. But in all cases, however much facts and inferences may be disputed, it is satisfactory to know that the initial lesion is invariably an indurated chancre, and never a secondary affection; and, further, that it always occurs at the point exposed to the influence of the syphilitic infection—be that point the mouth and lips, the arm, or other part of the cutaneous surface. As to the facts, and inferences from them, which are supposed to establish beyond doubt the various alleged modes of the transmission of secondary syphilitic lesions, not only to infants, but from them to other children, and even to adults—they have always appeared to be so defective in complete- ness, and in absence of all risk of error, as to prevent any absolute belief in their conclusiveness. One may, indeed, appear sceptical, by thus expressing a want of faith in what has been written and observed with so much honesty; especially as a positive assertion always out- weighs a mere negative in experience; but, while bound to express the absence of conviction, in regard to the facts of this subject, we are most willing to recommend adoption of the rules which have been deemed suitable to prevent communication of the secondary symptoms of the disease in all of the ways above mentioned. 1. A diseased nurse should never be employed for a healthy child, nor a diseased child suckled by a woman who has not previously had syphihs. In examining a nurse for the purpose of determining that she is not syphilitic, the condition of the cervical glands, scalp, chest, and breasts, taken into account with the health of her child—excluding all risk of imposition as to the child being her own—should afford sufficient guarantee as to her soundness. 2. The friends, followers, or husband of the nurse, should be kept away from her while she is nursing. 3. When vaccine matter is taken for the purpose of preservation, and employment in the vaccination of other children, the health of the child as well as that of its parents should be considered ; and the source from which every charge is obtained should be carefully noted, so that after reference may be made in any case of doubt. 4. The vaccine matter should consist of the pure lymph, without admixture vdth blood or curdy matter, and should be taken only when the vaccine vesicle is at its fully formed stage—when, in fact, its nature is rendered indubitable. Treatment of acquired syphilis in infants, is in all respects that of the congenital form of the disease.