147 TREATMENT OF MOKTIFICATION. is to moderate this; and at the same time to sustain constitutional j)ower. Applying poultice, water-dressing, pencilHng with nitrate of silver, or other soothing applications ; with careful regulation of diet, and administration of suitable remedies internally. In the chronic gangrene of old people, the Gangrcena senilis, we may have two varieties, as already shewn ; death direct, from diminished vascular supply; or death indirect, weakened power being overcome by inflammatory accession. In the former case, cautious general support is expedient by ordinary diet, cautiously regulated and watched ; enough to maintain and increase general power, yet cautious, to avoid the induction of an inflammatory process, which we know the part is imable to bear. The part itself may be covered with tepid-water dressing, or any other bland protective appHcation. In the second, or inflammatory form—much the more frequent—our object should be to subdue the inflammatory process; yet without im- pairing, and on the contrary rather adding to, the general power of system. The best local apphcation with this view, is the nitrate of silver ; pencilled over the red, painful, and swoln parts, so as merely to blacken, and obtain the simply sedative and antiphlogistic result; cover- ing the part, afterwards, with a light poultice, or water-dressing. The patient should be kept in the recumbent posture, with the part somewhat elevated. The diet must be non-stimulant ; otherwise inflammatory pro- gress, already beyond the power of the part to bear, will be further increased. At the same time, it must not be truly antiphlogistic, or starving; otherwise, both general and local power, already weak, will be still fiu'ther impaired; and the existing inflammatory process, even with- out increase, will be rendered more and more destructive. It will consist then, of simple farinaceous food, with the weaker forms of soup, or beef-tea —perhaps an egg, or fish. No wine, or other stimulants. The continued use of opiates is highly expedient. Great pain and general irritation attend the progress of the disease. The former is in part alleviated by the nitrate of silver. Both will be much assuaged by opium; which further, according to some, would seem to exert a beneficial tonic efiect on the capillaries ; thereby tending to increase vital power, in circum- stances where it is much required. Under such treatment, we expect, and often not in vain, that pain, redness, and swelling, shall cease; as also the advance of mortification. A healthy line of demarcation is established; the dead parts are thrown off; the patient rallies greatly in his system; and, in short, recovery is obtained, though not of course without more or less mutilation. But such was not the practice, and such were not the results, of former times. The practitioner took but a one-sided view of the case; observing deficient power alone, and overlooking the inflammatio debilis. His patient was Hterally crammed with diet, of the most rich and stimu- lant kind. If in the better ranks of life, his table was made to groan daily, under the most sumptuous viands; and yet the generous food seemed only to feed the disease. The dusky redness spread more and more; and both part and frame sank under it. The error was at length perceived; and an opposite extreme was gone into. Antiphlogistics were plied actively, as if the inflammatory process were of the ordinary sthenic