FIBKOUS TUMOUKS OF THE UTEKUS. 1003 near to the mucous surface it is sometimes spontaneously discharged in another way, as has been observed to occur even in the case of large sweUings; and not unfrequently this result has followed the irritation and pressure caused by the efforts of delivery, on the tissues interposed between tlie cavity of tlie uterus and the tumour. By ulceration or sloughing an opening is formed in these textures, and the substance of the'tumom' is exposed; disorganization ensues in the loose areolar tissue connecting the tumour to the uterus ; contractions of the hypertrophied uterine tissue supervene ; and expulsion of the tumour, in mass, or more gradually in parts, is the fortunate result. This may be called sponta- neous enucleation ; a process which has been imitated by art in some cases. If the tumour becomes polypoid, dilating the cervix or lying in the vagina, it may be treated as an ordinary uterine polypus. But it is to be remarked that more danger of uterine phlebitis attends the removal of this form of tumour, than of the ordinary uterine growth. The symptoms attending the presence of these tumours are neither constant nor diagnostic. Physical examination alone can detect their presence and decide upon their nature. They are generally accompanied by feelings of weight, pain, or uneasiness in the hypogastrium—pain in the back, in the side, or in the thighs—disorders of the functions of urination and defsecation, etc. ; but sometimes no symptoms at all exist. Often there is an increased amount of vaginal secretion and discharge, which may be checked by a mild astringent injection. Menorrhagia not unfrequently occurs, and may require the ordinary treatment, if severe ; it is generally a sign of proximity of the tumour to the macous mem- brane. Occasionally, but rarely, there is amenorrhoea. "When these tumours have attained to even a very moderate development, the use of the uterine sound will usually shew a proportionate elongation of the long axis of the cavity; and in a still earher stage, by dilating the cervix uteri by means of a sponge-tent, the presence of the fibrous tumour may be recognised in the thickness of the uterine wall. If the tumours become congested and inflamed, ordinary antiphlogistic treatment is necessary—especial attention being paid to maintenance of the recum- bent position. If the tumours are large, prominent, heavy, or movable, an abdominal bandage or binder may be useful to support and fix them, and to afford the patient a feeling of security. Nothing can be done in the way of discussing these growths ; although discutient remedies, as iodine used externally and internally, counter-irri- tants, rest, the occasional local abstraction of small quantities of blood by leeching or cupping, have often a beneficial effect in removing disagree- able symptoms, and sometimes seem to arrest growth, or even to cause a diminution in size—probably by removing the surrounding swelling and engorgement. In some cases these tumours have been removed along with the uterus and ovaries, by an operation similar to that for the removal of the ovarian cystic tumour, and with such a fair measure of success as to justify a similar proceeding. When the tumour protrudes towards the uteiine cavity, and dilatation of the cervix occurs, with pains re- sembling labour, spontaneous enucleation has sometimes been induced l)y the administration of the ergot of rye, assisted in some cases by the finger of the surgeon. Sometimes incision of the texture of the