411 TKEi\.T3yrENT AFTER LIGATURE. of the general circulation; this being obviously favourable to advance- ment of the process of cure. And about the usual time of the ligature's coming away, all moral and physical causes likely to accelerate circulation suddenly and much should be especially avoided. Eegimen is strictly antiphlogistic. The limb is placed and retained in a relaxed and com- lortablo posture. No severe pressure is applied to the tumour, under auy circumstances, lest suppuration or gangrene be induced; and no pressure in any degree need be employed, unless pulsation return in ex- cess, as already stated; or unless, at a later period, diminution of the tumour become slow and unsatisfactory. Nor should manipulation of the tumour be frequently and roughly practised ; otherwise suppuration of the cyst is not unlikely. It is no doubt essential to watcli the condi- tion of the swelling ; and it is satisfactory to know that pulsation is absent, that solidification continues complete, and that diminution ad- vances favourably; but such knowledge can be readily enough obtained •without much handling. All needless gratification of mere curiosity should be rigidly abstained from by the surgeon, and strictly prohibited on the part of others. Stimulant frictions, or more direct applications of heat, may perhaps be thought of immediately after the operation ; the temperature of the limb having fallen considerably below the normal standard. There can be no worse practice. At this time, vital power in the limb is very low ; and if the stimulation induce any considerable amount of vascular disturbance, as is most lil^ely, gangrene is almost sure to follow. Either let the limb alone altogether, or swathe it gently in a layer of fine cotton wadding. The temperature, as already stated, is best regulated under nature's spontaneous effort j and vital power, along with circulation, is gradually restored. After dehgation of the large arteries near the trunk of the body, free venesection, perhaps repeated, may be advisable ; with a view to save the important organs within the great cavities, from the evil effects of sanguineous determination caused by sudden interruption of the main current. After ligature of the common carotid, for example, the lungs are in danger by congestion, which may induce an apoplectic state of that tissue, or pass on into pneumonia; casualties, tending to a fatal result, which can in such circumstances best be obviated by loss of blood.* At one time it was a question as to what period of the case was most favourable for operation; and in general it was held that some considerable delay was advisable, in order to permit the collateral circu- lation to have become fully established. But it is now well understood, and generally admitted, that so soon as there is aneurism there is suffi- ciency of collateral circulation ; more likely to prove excessive, and cause trouble and anxiety by undue return of pulsation—than to be deficient, and induce gangrene directly by failure of arterial supply. Clarigrone is certainly one of the dangers of the operation ; but in the majority of cases in which it has occurred, it has probably been not the direct but the indirect consequence ; not by insufficiency of arterial supply, but by induction of inflammatory mischief; not by the fault of tne operation, but by that of the attendants in the subsequent treatment. * London and Edinburgh Monthly Journal, January 1842, p. 1.