1 G42 PERICRANITIS. part effectually, cither by escharotics or hy cxck'um—tlie latter metlio( the preferable ; for malignancy of action is otherwise apt to be assumed. Solid tumours, of various Icinds, are occasionally found in this locaUty ■ Of these, the most common is the adipose ; seldom of large size; an(j amenable to tlie ordinary treatment—excision. Of whatever nature th; tumour be, its removal should be early ; ere incorporation has taken plact either with the scalp above, or with the fibrous textures beneath. Erectile tumours very frequently occur in the scalp. They are bes: treated by deligation; with or without previous reflection of the integir mont, according as this happens to be involved or not in tlie morbii structm-e. The very large tumours of this class, sometimes met with the side of the head, need not be tied all at once, but may be dealt wii in portions; different parts being strangulated at different periods. M perience has proved that, in such cases, attempted excision is fraugi with the utmost danger to life, and that deligation of the main arteM trunk, or trunks, is an insufficient remedial means; cases may occ J hoAvever, in which, as part of the cure, the principal arteries may I obliterated as they enter the tumour; the twisted suture being employJ for this pu.rpose, as in the case of veins.* H Malignant tumours occasionally form in the scalp (Fig. 70, p. l7fB following the usual course; and amenable to the ordinary treatmeJ Benefit is to be expected only by free excision ; and that can be practi™ with expediency only at an early period. MedidJary tumours may mence in the soft tissues, and involve the hard secondarOy; fuU^H often, they originate in the bone. Malignant ulcer of the scalp is not imcommon ; beginning as a excrescence ; or the result either of an originally simple sore, or oj^| open and degenerate encysted tumoxir. In one case of this kind, 'w]^| lately came under our observation in a patient from Eskdale, Dr. lisle informs us that the disease had continued as a simple encyJ^H tumour for nearly thirty years before it ulcerated and became devel<^H into a fimgating medullary mass, the size of a small lemon. Early free removal is had recourse to; if the lymphatics as yet presenijj^ contra-indication. Pericranitis. \ The pericranium becomes the seat of an inflammatory process, .. or without external injury having been appHed. Acute, it may ble result of wound or bruise; following the ordinary course of such diJe in fibrous tissues. Or acute suppuration may extend from the surri > as in erysipelas of the phlegmonous form. The usual antiphlogistic. i- cations require to be fulfilled. Idiopathic pericranitis is more frequently chronic than acute 4 seldom occurs but in the adult, who is saturated witli the rheui *P diathesis, or who has sustained injury of the system by mercury syphilis—one or other, or both. The ordinary symptoms are pre ' pain, swelling, heat, tightness; and the nocturnal exacerbation peculiarly marked. The affection may resolve, leaving little • W structural change; or the resolution is incomplete, an enlargemc i?^ * Dr. Warrcii, American Journal of Medical Science, April 1846.