FKACTUEE OF THE IIUMEKUS. 919 tho ai-m. This position may be iiiaintaiued hy laying the arm on a pillow at right angles to tlie patient's body; or by the use of Tyrrell's rectangular splint, one linib of which rests against the side, while the arm is laid upon the other. Fractures of the Shaft of the Humerus. These occur most frequently below the middle of the bone, and are occasioned by direct violence, by falls on the elbow or hand, or by mus- cular contraction—as in epileptic seizures, in the endeavour to suj)port the body when falling, by seizing some object, in the effort to throw a stone, or in "turning over" an opponent's wrist. The fracture is usually transverse, but frequently oblique; in the former instance there is little displacement, and no deformity, owing to the uniform manner in which the biceps, triceps, and brachialis anticus muscles support the bone; in the latter, the direction of the obliquity, together with the site of the fracture, and the degree of violence by which the lesion has been occa- sioned, determine the direction and amount of displacement and distor- tion. The direction of the obliquity is usually from above downwards and outwards. When the fracture occurs at the insertion of the muscles into the bicipital ridges, both fragments at the seat of injury incline in- wards j below this point and above the insertion of the deltoid, the upper fragment is drawn inwards, and the lower very decidedly outwards and upwards. Eelow the insertion of the deltoid, the upper fragment retains its position, or projects outwards, while the lower, acted on by the weight of the forearm, projects forwards. The ordinary signs of fracture are readily recognised, more especially flexibility of the limb, mobility of the broken bone at the seat of the injury, and crepitus. In the prognosis and treatment of fractures of the shaft of this bone, the possibility of the occurrence of want of union between the fragments, of a considerable amount of deformity, and sometimes of very considerable inflammatory excitement, should not be forgotten. The treatment consists in applying splints to the inner and outer aspects of the limb, extending from the axilla and acromion, respectively, to the condyles of the humerus, and secured either by a roller or tie-bandage. The forearm should be flexed at a right angle, and supported in a sling, while by a cushion placed be- tween the arm and side, extending from the axilla to a little above the condyles, and a body bandage encircKng the arm and chest, the whole is rendered immovable. When the fracture is situated low down in the shaft, or there appears to be a probability of want of union resulting, rectangular splints, including both the arm and forearm, supported by a starch bandage, should be applied. When inflammatory symptoms occur, the hand and forearm should be supported by a roller bandage, and it is generally well to confine the patient to bed till all irritation has sub- sided. Various plans have been devised to maintain forcible extension; out they must be regarded as dangerous or unsatisfactory. Fracture of the Lower Extremity of the Humerus, Supra-condijloid Fracture.—Here the solution of continuity is generally oblique; sloping downwards from behind forwards. And the appearances simulate those of dislocation of both bones of the forearm backwards. The lower frag-