THE mDmiA.TED OK TRUE CHANCRE. 1152 for days, or it may be weeks ; then gradually the characters of the indurated chancre develope themselves, so that the sore, which at first was an undoubted soft non-infecting one, ultimately acquires all the charac- ters of the indurated and infecting chancre, and is followed by constitu- tional syphilis, with its usual results. The diagnosis of indurated chancre is not equally easy in all cases, or at every period in the history of the sore. Were we, in fact, confined in our determination of the specific characters of the sore to the ulcerated surface, and the state of its base, very great difficulties, indeed, would constantly arise. The glandular enlargements by which it is constantly accompanied, and the existence jof a. period of incubation ere the sore became developed, will, when taken with its local characters, usually suffice to determine the true nature of the sore, and enable us to arrive at a prognosis, with as little risk of error as can be expected in any disease. The prognosis, in a case of indurated chancre, should be, that con- stitutional symptoms are absolutely certain to occur in all cases, within six weeks from the commencement of the sore ; unless, indeed, treatment has been adopted of a kind to interrupt the ordinary evolution of the phenomena of the disease. These symptoms, at first quite superficial and general in their character, become, as the infection grows older, more localized, and more liable to affect subcutaneous parts and internal organs. Treatment.—No treatment which can be employed will altogether prevent the development of constitutional symptoms when the sore has once formed. Caustics may be used with the view of preventing the communication of the sore to others, but neither cauterization nor ex- cision can save the system. The virus, during its period of incubation, has been absorbed, and has acted upon the system; the first fruits of such constitlitional contamination being evidenced in the induration of the base of the sore, and the formation of the indurated glandular chains in the neighbouring lymphatics. ISTo doubt, both Eicord and Sigmund, in their vast clinical experience of chancres, have found that sores destroyed by the more powerful caustics, within from three to five days after their commencement, have not been followed by syphilitic symptoms. But this, which is undoubtedly a fact, can only apply to the soft chancre, which, from the rapidity with which it appears after exposure to infection, and the pain which attends upon it till it attains its period of decline, is sure not to be overlooked. The indurated chancre, on the contrary, having a long period of incubation, being usually a painless, unobserved affair, during its early stage, and not attracting attention until its size or situation make its presence sufficiently obvious, is not likely to afford an opportunity for such early ectrosis. It is so far well, therefore, that we find both expei-ience and analogy proving the complete uselessness of ectrotic treatment in the case of the indurated sore. Nay, further, ectrotic attempts sometimes only serve to excite additional destruction of tissue, with the development in the parts around, after the slough formed by the caustic has separated, of a fresh induration, which tends to render cicatrization of the sore a more tedious matter than otherwise it would have been. The best application which can be made to the sore is a weak astringent, such as the sulphate