327 OSTEOCYSTOMA. Fig. 138>. ribs. The interior of the tumour is the same as that of the preceding; the form is less regularly spheroidal, and the surface is more unequal. Treatment.—When enchondroma is very small and recent, there is some reason to beUeve that discutients, such as mercury and iodine, may not only check but gradually disperse the tumour. In the great majority of cases, however, this is in no degree amenable to absorption ; and therefore demands removal by the knife. The second variety, external to the bone, may sometimes be simply dissected away, the bone remaining entire ; but more commonly, like the first, requires ablation of that portion of bone from which it is produced. And if removal have been complete, reproduction need not be anticipated. Osteocystoma. Tills in some respects resembles chronic internal abscess; by the ancients supposed to be of a windy character, and hence, improperly, called Spina Ventosa. A membranous cyst forms in the interior of a bone, causing equable expansion of the laminae; and forming a cavity occupied by straw-coloured serous-looking contents, usually clear and glairy, sometimes, however, resem- bling lard in consistence. The parietes, as the cavity slowly enlarges, are more and more atten- uated; at some points they become membranous, and ultimately the membrane may give way. No great amount of osseous formation accom- panies the dilatation, as in chronic abscess ; and the morbid process is from the first non- inflammatory. The cavity is lined by a serous-looking membrane ; and sometimes membranous septa subdivide the space, as in compound serous cysts of the soft parts. The distinctive characters of the swelling thus are :—the contents seldom, if ever, truly purulent; the parietes little more than simply expanded, and consequently attenuated ; the formation neither preceded nor accompanied by inflammatory change; commencing in the cancellated interior, by non-inflammatory formation of a cyst, w^hich partakes largely of the serous character. Treatment is similar to that of the simple and compound cysts of the soft parts j puncture, satisfactory evacuation, external support, internal stimulation if necessary. Partial ablation of the external wall is some- times necessary ; and in cases of compound cysts, entire removal is essen- tial for cure. Even where the cyst is a simple one, amputation may be required. Eor example, the affection is not unfrequent in the phalanges of the fingers; and if one of those be wholly expanded into a large cyst. It IS prudent at once to amputate the whole or part of the finger, instead Fig. 138. Osteocystoma, of large size ; occupying lower end of femur. Prep, in university Museum.