812 STRICTURE OF THE CESOPIIAGUS. bone, with a bulbous extremity made of ivory—well oiled, is passed gently down to the obstruction; or a gum-elastic bougie may be used for the same purpose. One having been selected of such a size as wiU pass without the use of force, it is lodged in the contracted part, and retained there for some time—according to the sensations of the patient. After a day or two, the irritation caused by the former instrument having sub- sided, another, a size larger, is similarly employed. And thus, gradually, the normal calibre is restored. An instrument of full size should be passed occasionally, however, for some time afterwards, to obviate the tendency to recontraction which exists in all mucous canals so affected. Tlie object of the passing of instruments is, not to excite inflammatory softening or ulceration in the contracted part; for this would plainly tend to ultimate aggravation of the morbid state; but to excite absorp- tion of the submucous product, and a resolutory process, with discharge, in the membrane itself. At the same time, some benefit is also obtained by mechanical dilatation. When the stricture is situated below the level of the sternum, even more gentleness and care, if possible, are expedient in using the bougie than in the case of stricture of the pharynx, or of the cervical portion of the oesophagus; force being more likely to produce lesion of the mem- brane, and even to cause perforation of the tube. It has happened that the head of a probang, supposed to have passed on to the stomach after having overcome the stricture, has been found, after death—at no distant date, and not iinconnected with the event—to have lodged in the medi- astinum ! Another precaution is equally necessary in thoracic constric- tion ; namely, to beware that there is no error in our diagnosis ; to be certain that the contraction is really caused by structural change in the oesophagus itself, and not dependent on the pressure of an aneurismal or other tumour. The malignant stricture admits only of palliation. Great attention . is paid to the administration of nutritive and easily swallowed ingesta, , so as to husband the failing strength; while pain and discomfort are ! assuaged by opiates. After effecting our diagnosis, direct interference with i the part, by means of bougies, caustic, or otherwise, with dilatation in i view, cannot but do harm. Often, however, the pain of the ulcerated I surface may be relieved, by occasionally touching it with a solution of the nitrate of silver. The passage and permanent retention of a nasal I feeding tube has been recommended in these cases, ere the diminution of the calibre of the gullet has become so great as to prevent this being car- ried into effect. While in others, where the occlusion is complete, and i threatened inanition imminent, oesophagotomy or gastrostomy, according ; to the site of constriction, has been recommended as a means of prolong- ing a miserable existence. (4.) Spasm of the Pharynx and (Esojjhagus.—In yoimg and middle- -j aged patients of nervous temperament, prone to hysteria, with stomach and bowels disordered, spasm of the muscles of the phai'}aix and oeso- phagus is not an unfrequent occurrence ; causing the bolus hystericus, pam in the part, with an uneasy and apprehensive feeling of tightness, and materially interfering with deglutition. The attacks are occasional, sudden in accession, and gradual in remission. The treatment is mainly