CATARACT. 715 and fibres appear to be the seat of the breaking np of the tissue and fatty product which occasions the opacity. Cataracts then, practically speaking, had much better be described as implicating the cortical and the wiicFmr textures of the lens. The former is by far the more common form • in fact the pure nuclear cataract, without the pre-existence of j disease of the cortical texture, is very rare. The cataractous change has, jby microscopic examination, been proved to consist of breaking up of the I fibrous texture of the lens, and in the product in connection with it of ■fatty matter and eai'thy salts. The affection may occur at any age, and is attributable to defective nutrition from some cause which, in most cases, is inappreciable. Sometimes, however, the change is evidently ereditary, and due to a gouty diathesis ; and we also meet with it s an accompaniment of diabetes mellitus. It may be induced by xternal injury of the part. Sometimes it is a congenital defect. Most •equently it occurs in advanced years; one sign, among many, of the rame's gradual decay. The prominent symptom is impairment of vision. At first, objects ,re seen as if obscured by a gauze or mist; this obscuration gradually nereases; and ultimately vision is almost, but not entirely, lost. In he most advanced cases, the patient is still able to distinguish light from arkness. The iris is not necessarily impaired in its functions. Both yes are seldom equally affected at once ; but usually both are ultimately volved Sometimes uneasy sensations are complained of in the eye d forehead; more frequently the part is the seat of no abnormal sensa- ion. Sight is improved by a diminution of light; it is better at twi- ight than at noon, in a dull than in a bright day, and also better when he patient is seated with his back to the light, than when facing the dow; for the pupil, then dilating, permits the rays of light to pass to e retina through the margin of the lens, which is perhaps still unobscured. or a like reason, the use of atropine materially improves the sight. On oking into the eye, an opacity is discernible, occupying the pupil, and ituate immediately behind it. This opacity of cataract must, however, e carefully distinguished from the pale yellow tint which the lens pos- ies normally in adult life, and from the reflex lustre sometimes met th in disease of the retina and choroid. In examining the lens, great sistance is afforded, in the early stages of cataract, from the use of a con- ensing glass of an inch focus, held in front of the patient's eye, so as to ncentrate the rays of light admitted from a single window. Minute lots and streaks, which produce ever so little interception of the rays, iU thus be rendered apparent. To examine the whole extent of the nticular structure thoroughly, atropine should be appKed, to dilate the upil, so as to afford every facility for ascertaining the extent and cha- cter of the change. In proportion as sight is impaired, the opacity is und to have increased. When central or nuclear, it usually presents uniform cloudy appearance without striae; but these will very gene- lly be found in the cortical substance, co-existing with the nuclear flange. In the congenital form, the affection is mostly confined to the Jicleiis, but tbis is by no means the case in adults or elderly subjects. Tien the disease commences in the cortical portion, it may present a ilky appearance without any regular striro; the superficial cells and