CHAPTER XLVIII. .VFFECTIONS OF THE WEIST AND HAND. Ganglia and TJiecal Collections. Ganglia frequently form on the wrist and back of the hand. When troublesome as well as unseemly, they may be got rid of by pressure, or by puncture of the cyst, followed by blistering. Collections of glairy fluid often occur in the thecse of the flexor tendons in the lower part of the forearm, with or without loose bodies contained; forming a soft bulging swelling, which usually extends into the palm j more or less seriously interfering with the functions as well as with the symmetry of the limb. The double sac thus constituted has a middle contracted channel of communication beneath the annular liga- ment, and pressure on one or other of the prominences of the sac, by transposing the fluid and the melon-seed-like floating bodies usually contained in it, produces a peculiar churning sensation, which is quite pathognomonic. In these cases, it has latterly been the practice to make a free evacuating incision; afterwards completely dividing the annular ligament of the wrist sub-integumentally, by means of a probe-pointed bistoury introduced through the wound, in the belief both that thus tension during subsequent inflammatory accession wOl be avoided, and that cicatrization of the whole interior of the sac will be permitted to take place. According to M. Velpeau, it is both safe and eff'ectual to evacuate the contents by the trocar, and then to inject iodine—in cases where no extraneous bodies exist in the sac. Paronychia. No affection is more common than paronychia, or Whitlow ; more especially among washerwomen, cooks, nurses, field labourers, and others, whose fingers, by the nature of their avocations, are not only kept prone to the assumption of inflammatory disease, but also much exposed to the apphcation of its exciting causes. The whitlow varies both in site and intensity, ^ 1. There is a mild form, Hmited to the very surface. The finger, at its point, and perliaps in its whole extent, is intensely hot and painful, red, and somewhat swoln ; and vesications may be in process of forming. Treatment consists in leecliing, fomentation, and general antiphlogistics. ZT^. frequently practised—the part is rubbed lightly over With nitrate of silver, so as to blacken and desiccai?^ the surface. Keso-