AFFECTIONS OF THE CKA.NIUM. G43 bono remtuuing—reseiubling a diffiisod node, and sometimes involving the Avholo calvarium, Avhich, thus hypertroplucd, has been known in some instances to become enormously thickened. In some cases this thickening occurs upon the external siu'foce ; in others, upon the interior, and at the expense, therefore, of the important contents of the cranium. Ill examples of the latter class, the change being a slow one, the effects produced ai-e gi-adual, and time for accommodation is thus permitted; or again, the inflammatory process may prove destructive, and the bone suffers, to a greater or less extent, by ulceration and necrosis. Usually the periosteum of other parts of the skeleton is at the same time and similarly affected; and the bones most likely to suffer, along with the cranium, are the clavicles, sternum, tibiae, and ulnse. Treatment is mainly constitutional. The primje viae having been brought into a tolerably satisfactory condition, a sustained exhibition of tlie alteratives, iodine and cod-liver oil, well known to be suitable to such cases, is proceeded with. The iodide of potassium is found espe- cially beneficial Locally, leeches and fomentations may be required at first; then, counter-iiTitation. The inflammatory process having been checked, and its results only remaining, nothing is more efiectual than the endermic use of a strong solution of iodine, or the application of repeated blisters. Throughout the whole period of cure, the hair is kept either shaved or short. Atmospheric exposure is carefully avoided ; and regimen is rigidly non-stimulant. If matter form acutely, it must be evacuated, freely and early. But if a chronic fluctuating swelling exists, there is no advantage obtained by making an opening; as, by continued counter-iiTritation, absorption is almost certain to result. Even when rough and spongy bone can be plainly felt through the chronic collection of fluid, counter-irritation should still be persevered with—along with the internal use of iodide of potassium—when the afi'ection is dependent on a constitutional cause ; for, in such cases, discussion will probably follow patient perseverance, even under circumstances by no means promising. Should acute or subacute accession supervene, bowever, the abscess becoming tense and crescent, let incision be no longer delayed. In obstinate examples of pericranitis, causing mere change of struc- twe, with slight swelling but great pain, the general health is apt to give way greatly, from want of sleep, and consequent exhaustion. In such cases it is essential to give opiates ; and if the more proper altera- tives have proved ineffectual, mercury may be given in guarded doses, in ffQch cases, however, its good efiects may always be regarded with suspicion; being usually only temporary, and afterwards followed by a luoie serious reaccession of the disease. Affections of the Cranium. Ahscm and ulcer of the cranium occur from ordinary causes; and ate amenable to ordinary treatment. lie so-called caries of the skull is always preceded and accompanied ^th h^'^^*^-'^^ ^^cposit of a new and gelatinous material, accompanied tut osseous elements of the part. It seldom occurs a vice of system—seeming to bo rather a symptom and sign of