UTERINE POLYPUS. 1281 hemorrhage unconnected with labour. If violent, and proving dangerous, it may be commanded by the plug. If sligliter, it may be arrested by placing the patient in the horizontal posture, keeping her cool, applying cold locally over the vulva and hypogastrium, administering cold enemata, or, in some cases, cold and astringent vaginal injections, cautiously, and using internally the common astringent and refrigerant medicines. As in many other hemorrhages, opium is of service. Kemoval may be effected in various ways. The quickest, and in most cases the best plan, is the direct use of long scissors, slightly curved on the flat, through the speculum—or without it, using the finger, or fingers, as a guard. When the polypus is large, and can be well seized by a volsella, it may be dragged down to the vulva, and its stalk divided there by knife or scissors. If the gro-wth be very bulky, it may be necessary to enlarge the vaginal opening by incisions. When the stalk or base is large and broad, it is safer to cut near the tumour, rather than near its insertion ; on account of the danger of incisions implicating the uterine walls. If difficulty is felt as to the proper site of the incisions, it is preferable to use some of the slower, but in this instance safer methods of removal. And in aU cases it is to be remembered that it is not necessary to take away the whole pedicle; for the part left after separation of the polypus quickly disappears. After removal there is rarely any alarming hemorrhage ; but it must be carefully watched for, and early arrested, if need be. Small polypi may often be conveniently removed by torsion and avulsion, the operation being the same as for nasal polypus. A ligature of whip cord, or silver wire, may be thrown around the pedicle, by means of Gooch's well-known double canula, or by any of the numerous modifications of it, in the form of eeraseurs, which best suits the operator's fancy. In the former case, removal is a gradual process, occup)dng days ; in the latter, occupying but a few minutes. In cases where a great number of smaU polypi exist within the uterine and cervical cavities, the uterine scraper may be advantageously substituted for forceps. In the case of the fibrous polypus, direct use of the knife is perhaps, upon the whole, the safest method ; as most of the other modes are tedious, and on account of continuance of foetid discharges from the half separated and decaying polypus, as well as from the irritation of the ligature, there is risk of untoward inflammatory mischief being excited— perhaps pyjemia. SmaU, sessile, mucous polypi may be destroyed by nitrate of silver ; or a stronger caustic may be used, if necessary. Extirpation of the Cervix Uteri Is performed chiefly in cases of malignant disease still confined to this part, and when the peculiarities of its site, and its prominence into the vagina, render complete removal feasible. The operation is sufficiently simple ; the only point requiring particular care being to keep the incisions in the cervix below the peritoneal reflections—at the same time removing as much as can safely be done. 4 N