PARACENTESIS THORACIS. 973 l ib has wounded the lung, tho air, escaping from this organ during the inspiratory movement of the chest, is forced with each expiratory effort through the wound in the pleura costaUs, and thence into the areolar tissue ; and in tliis case not only may the emphysema distend the areolar tissue in tho immediate neighbourhood of tho injury, but even of the whole body—the palms of the hands and soles of the feet alone excepted. Such general diffusion, however, is rare, its extent being usually limited to the alfected side. The condition is recognised by the uniformly diffused but ill-defined character of the swelhng produced by the con- fined air; the surface of the skin presenting a white appearance and a duninished temperature, and crackhng and dimpling under the pressure of the finger, while the depressions left rapidly disappear. The treat- ment of the affection consists in the application of a compress over the site of the pleural aperture, and in the employment of punctures or limited incisions to afford relief to the tension and uneasiness induced. WTieu the emphysema is limited, nothing beyond the application of a binder round the chest is required, and the air spontaneously disappears within a brief period. Paracentesis Thoracis. An opening into the pleural cavity may be required, we have seen, on account of the accumulation of air or blood. It may also be needed in consequence of fluids having collected there—the result of dropsical effusion or of inflammatory disease—Hydro-thorax, Pleuritic effusion, and Empysema; affections which belong to the department of the Physician, and whose progress and consequences it is unnecessary to consider here. In all of them, when the intervention of Surgery is needed, the side is found dull on percussion, and swoln, and the ribs are unusually separate, the interspaces bulging ; there are dyspnoea, difficulty of lying on the sound side, and the other signs of pleural accumulation already noticed ; the side enlarges more and more, and even fluctuation may come to be discernible in the intercostal spaces ; and ultimately, in cases of em- pyasma, spontaneous evacuation may take place at the most prominent part, as in ordinary abscess. For the discharge of purtdent and sero-purulent fluids, an opening is made by means of a trocar and canula. This instrument may be employed, subintegumentally, as in the case of chronic abscess. Or, in some cases, the opening may requii-e to be made direct, by means of the bistoury, and left patulous and dependent. However made, the margins of the ribs should be carefuUy avoided—especially the lower border of the upper rib, beneath cover of whicli the superior and larger branch of the intercostal artery runs. In the direct punc- ture, it is well to make a preliminary incision through the skin and nmscular stratum, by means of a scalpel; merely completing per- foration by the trocar. As to the most eligible point for making such a wound, authorities greatly differ. The opening must be dependent, and sufficient in all respects for evacuation, and therefore should not he made higher than the fifth or sixth rib; and yet it must not be 80 placed as to endanger the diaphragm—which Avould be the case were the puncture made lower down than the ninth or tenth rib j