822 AFFECTIONS OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. Inflammatory and other Affections of the External Ear. These may be simple, the result of external injury, as by blows wounds, lacerations; requiring merely -warm and moist applications for their subjugation. A form of irritation alfecting the pinna is due to continuous pressure, as is seen in feeble bed-ridden patients. The mflam- matory process is here analogous to the irritation which precedes the formation of bed-sores, and requires a like relief from pressure to permit recovery. The inflammatory process may be of an erythematous, erysipelatous, eczematous, herpetic, impetiginous, bullous, or syphilitic character, requir- ing nothing locally special in its treatment. The results of chronic change or ulcerative contraction, by narrowing the meatus, sometimes require a resort, during treatment, to the use of aural tubes, to maintain the patency of the orifice of the canal The areolar tissue, perichondrium, and cartilage of the auricle, are sometimes the site of an inflammatory process, attended with a very great degree of pain, thickening of the alfected textures, and even the occurrence of suppuration. Leeching, hot fomentation, poultices, and opiates to lull the jjain, sliould be em- ployed in the acute form, folloAved by incision when matter is distinctly present. In the chronic variety, painting with the tincture of iodine, or the appKcation of mercurial ointment, will generally be found sufficient, without blistering, to restore the tissues to their normal condition. Where the perichondrial change seems of a gouty nature, colchicum and iodide of potassium may be advantageously administered internally. Calcareous degeneration of the cartilage of the helix, or anti-helix, some- times occurs. Tumours of the Auricle.—These are of four kinds—1, simj)le hyj)er- trophy; 2, cystic tumour and hematocele; 3, encysted tumours; 4, fibrous tumours ; 5, carcinomatous degeneration and ulceration. 1. Hypertrophy of the whole Auricle is an occasional, though rare occur- rence. Partial hypertrophy—affecting the lobule only—is more fi'e- quently met with ; and chiefly in women who wear ear-rings. If excess sive, and irksome to the patient from its unseemliness, the redundancy may be removed by the knife. This deformity, hoAvever, may be artifi- cially and intentionally produced ; as by those native Indians who wear a dagger suspended from the lobe of the ear. 2. Cystic Tumour and Hematocele.—The latter afi'ection is a remarkable condition, consisting of a sanguinolent serous fluid, contained in a cyst, t situated between the perichondrium and the cartilage of the auricle ; met with usually in the imbecile or insane, and liable to be supposed, without reason, due to injuries and blows—occurring accidentally, or inflicted upon them by their companions or keepers. The Simi)le Serous Gyst, containing clear, glairy, gummy fluid, is also met with, closely simu- lating, yet apparently unconnected mth, the hematocele just described. Puncture and the application of a blister is all that is required. 3. Encysted tumours sometimes occur singly, but much more commonly in clusters ; they are firmly adherent to surrounding parts, sometimes perforating the cartilage and adhering to the cutaneous textures on t other side. Their removal requiics a careful dissection; and though