50 CUPPING. ing blood from it. They are antiphlogistic by derivation. The same number, placed on the part, draw blood from the parts around to the source of the flow; and thereby may increase sanguineous determination, instead of relieving it. If direct application is to be employed, the quan- tity taken must be large; truly spoUative; as it were, emptying the part, notwithstanding its borrowed supply from the vicinity. Local bleeding, therefore, to be antiphlogistic, must either be small in amount and indirect in its extraction, or direct and copious. Let it be the latter, when a constitutional as well as local effect is both expedient and per- missible ; the former, invariably, when we are anxious to husband the general vital powers, and to attack only the local malady. The foregoing observations, of course, do not apply to abstraction of blood directly from the part by pimcture, scarification, or incision; these, however slight or few, cannot fail to rifle the part of its fluid contents—more or less; and, besides, they have other indications fully as important to fafiL Blood is withdrawn locally in various ways; by cupping, leeching, puncture, scarification, incision. Cupping.—This, when the means are at hand, and the nature of the part is suitable to their application, is perhaps the preferable mode; less tedious and annoying than leeching, and likely to prove also more effec- tual. Eapidity of abstraction we saw to be useful, in obtaining a sedative effect on the system. It is similarly useful when directed upon the part. Much blood may require to flow by the slow oozing of leech-bites, ere the spoHative and sedative result is obtained. Half the quantity, sud- denly removed by cupping, may prove equally or even more successful This little operation is performed in the following manner :—The surface is first hotly sponged; and then the cups, duly exhausted by a spirit-lamp, are fixed on the parts whence the blood is to be taken. This creates a determination to that portion of the surface ; at once facilitating abstraction of blood, and causing a derivation—itself favour- able to the inflaming texture. By heat and moisture, this determination to the surface is maintained throughout the operation. The cups having been removed, the scarificator is instantly applied to the red and swollen parts. The instrument is pressed lightly on ; and the range of the lan- cettes is so modified, that they shall not penetrate more deeply than the true skin ; otherwise the adipose tissue fills the wounds, and arrests the flow of blood. The scarificator, so soon as it has been discharged, is re- placed by a hot sponge ; and this again by the glass, fully exhausted; yet not too much so, otherwise marginal pressure may be so great as to obstruct the circulation of the part. The changes are made as rapidly as possible. The blood, as it escapes more or less freely, rises to fill the vacuum So soon as it begins to coagulate—or sooner, if the flow be tardy—the glass is removed and emptied ; and is then reapplied, freshly exhausted. On each re-application, it is well to shift the glass slightly from the former site; so that the pressure of its rim may not be injuri- ously concentrated on one and the same circle of integument During the intervals of reapphcation, a warm sponge covers the wounds; and, on leaving, is made to rub them somewhat roughly, in oi\ler to prevent the lodgment of coagula. Detachment of the glass is efl'ected carefully, by pressure of the finger at the uppermost part of the rim; the glass,