1225 OllCIilTIS. tend to propagate the iniiammatory process more rapidly backwards towiu-ds the prostate than Avould have occurred spontaneously, yet there seems no good reason, but rather the contrary, to blame injections— rightly used—as a cause of the swelling and irritation; for by their judicious use, at the proper time, along with the employment of acute anti-gonorrhaal remedies at an early period of the disease, the inflam- matory symptoms will disappear, discharge will cease, and the affection of the epididymis will be prevented. By some a large and pendulous scrotum has been believed to favour the occurrence of this affection; and the more dependent position of the left testicle has been sup- posed to favour a predisposition to its suffering more frequently than its fellow. Support of the testicles during the existence of a gonorrhoea or gleet is certainly a valuable precautionary measure; but not only are the testicles equally liable, apparently, to suffer from the inflammatory access, but an undescended testis in the abdomen, or inguinal canal, may become affected, while the pendulous organ on the other side remains undisturbed. These glands sometimes suffer together; in other cases consecutively; or the attack may pass backwards and forwards between the two. Pain and a sense of weight are felt in the cord and testicle, the skin reddens, and uneasiness is complained of in the groin and loins. Sometimes the attack is sudden, in other cases it is gradual in its access. These symptoms are usually preceded by a sense of uneasiness at the fundament, and frequent desire to make water. The swelling and pain increase, often becoming excruciating; and then sensation in the loins is as if the back were sawn across. Discharge from the urethra diminishes, and ceases—an example not of metastasis, but of the effect of counter- irritation. The scrotal swelling becomes tense, red, glistening, and in- tolerant of the slighest pressure; the cord, too, is swoln, red, and pain- ful. Pebrile disturbance is considerable; and vomiting is both a common and distressing symptom. Sometimes such pain is complained of in the lower part of the abdomen, as, along with the vomiting, to lead to a simulation of enteritis, of internal strangulation, or—when the affected testicle occupies the inguinal canal—of strangulated hernia; and for this the complaint has actually been mistaken. During the progress of gonorrhoeal epididymitis, seminal emissions are liable to occur, sometimes as a precursor of the attack, more usually during its progress. The seminal secretion is, in such circumstances, usually mingled with more or less blood and purulent matter. Treatment.—At the very outset of a case of epididymitis, a smart emetic will frequently serve to cut short the impending inflammatory access ; but when hardness of the epididymis and swelling of the cord, with effusion of fluid into the tunica vaginalis, have already occurred, this will no longer serve any good purpose. By many the restoration of discharge from the urethra is what is aimed at; and stimulating injections, the appHcation of gonorrhoeal matter, or of red oxide of mercury ointment smeared on.a bougie, or repetition of sexual intercourse with a subject likely to communicate a new irritation of the urethral mucous membrane, have not only been recommended but employed. Such expedients are here rncntioned only to reprobate their use, which is by no means Hkely