LOCAL SYMPTOMS. 7 Everj-- day's oxperienco illustrates this. In the detection of deep abscess, for example, tlie subcutaneous areolar tissue is found oedematous ; beneath tliis a firm hardness is felt; while Avithin this, again, is the soft site of suppu- ration. Hitherto we have been treating of in- flammatory change as occurring in vascular tissues. In these, disintegration of texture in the third stage is always accompanied with suppiu-ation. And in non-vascular tis- sues, as in articular cartilage and the cornea, we observe an advancing process, analogous in all respects to the inflammatory, so far as structural results are concerned, culminating in destruction of texture by change of cell-formation, with the production of cells structurally the same as those of pus. While asserting that inflammatory disintegration of texture is always accompanied with suppuration, it is right further to explain, that the converse by no means holds true. Suppuration is not always ac- companied with disintegration of texture. On mucous surfaces, for example, and on the walls of open abscesses, we often observe very copious formation of pus, wliile the inflammatory process has declined from the third stage—which originated the suppuration—and rests in the second. It has often been disputed whether the inflammatory change implies increase or diminution of vital strength in the part—an excitement or a debihty; and both extremes have been tenaciously held and argued. In the earher stages of the process the advocates of excitement, or increased vitahty, may still hold their ground, so far as increased formation of cell-structures can be taken as a test of such vital energy ; but when the third stage has been reached, evidence of vital depression in the part is plain and indisputable. Trom such depression the part recovers slowly ; and sometimes only in degree—often remaining, at least for a long time, both more prone to disease and less able to control it; a fact wliicli it is of much importance that both patient and practitioner should remember. Local Symptoms of the Inflammatory Process. The consecutive changes which we have endeavoured to describe are ordinarily accompanied and indicated by certain signs ; redness, swelling, heat, pain, increased sensibility, throbbing, and disorder of function. 1. Redness.—The more fully a part is injected with blood, the redder is its hue. An inflaming texture, as we have seen, has its amount of blood much increased; and its colour is necessarily heightened thereby. And not only are the vessels unusually gorged with blood; that blood is unusually red ; much of the liquor sanguinis having moved on from the field of actual or threatened stagnation, leaving the overdistendod vessels filled chiefly with an agglomeration of corpuscles. The cause of redness, then, is obvious.