THE OPHTHALMOSCOPE. 707 arrangement constitutes tlio opthalmoscope of Anagnostalds. The ob- server must recollect, in employing tliis instrument, that the optic nerve and retina are seen reversed. The patient should be examined by gas or lamp light, either in a small room for the purpose, with the walls blackened so that no cross liaht shall distract the observer, or, though less satisfactorily, in a room with the daylight excluded and a dark surface placed behind him. He hould be seated with the head supported, and upon a level a little below hat of the observer. The pupil should previously have been fully dilated ly means of atropine, and the light should be arranged so as to be situ- ted to one side, a little behind and upon the level of the patient's eye. B surgeon, seated in front, applies the back of the perforated mirror to .is own eye, and looks through the aperture while the reflection is cast pon the patient's eye; at the same time, steadying his left hand by lacing his ring and little finger upon the forehead, he keeps the upper d elevated by means of the middle finger, and supports, inclines, d focuses the magnifying lens by means of the fore finger and thumb, maintain this adjustment, requires some attention and care ; but when e art is once acquired it will be found easy of execution, and very uch more easily and quickly employed than any of the more cumbrous echanical appliances which have been invented to serve the same end. first, nothing but a ruddy glow is seen reflected from the interior of ,6 eye. When, however, the patient turns his eye diagonally across e surgeon, in the direction of his opposite cheek—with a Kttle careful cussing, effected either by advancing or withdi-awing the lens, or the .rgeon's head and the mirror—the optic entrance situated to the inner e of the axis of vision at once becomes obvious, presenting a creamy .t pinkish lustre as compared with the ruddy glow by which it is rounded—partly due to the capillary net-work of the retina itself, ily to the vascular choroid lying behind it, which the perfect trans- .rency of the healthy retina in no degree intercepts. From the centre the optic entrance is observed the emergence of the divisions of the [teria centralis retince; sweeping in two or more distinct branches wards and outwards, and downwards and outwards; giving off smaller gs, both peripherally and centripetally; but leaving the central axis the eye, or macula lutea, always free of visible vessels. These ries have their concomitant veins following nearly the same course, t are recognisable from them, when compared at their point of emer- ce, by the double outHne and paler tint presented by the arteries, en firm pressure is made upon the eye, a pulsation is produced in the arterial and venous vessels of the retina. When the focus is ;htly altered the choroidal vessels become apparent, ha2y, and indis- in young subjects—especially when of a dark complexion—from the mentary elements of this tunic modifying their outline ; the ruddy >ur derived from their closely-packed arrangement is, however, quite •ly recognised. In elderly persons, again, the outline of the vessels is e distinct; and the dusky colour of the pigment, occupying the 5es between them, makes their distribution and appearance more ly studied than in the young. In a state of health the media, consisting of the cornea, aqueous