THE SOFT NON-INFECTING CHANCRE. 1145 skiu luis been abraded by friction, by incision, by laceration, or by ulceration. 2d, That the secretion from the sore is non-putrescent; the mere appearance of the purulent fluid being unimportant, and the presence of its pus globules non-essential. The discharge from tlie sore is merely the veliicle in which tlie virus is contained. Zd, The sore must not be in a healing condition j its secretion then being simply healthy purulent fluid. In other cases, again, a sore forms slowly and insidiously, with but little pain, and having little tendency to suppurate, ulcerate, or slough; and, instead of being limited in its results by the local ulceration, or by its effects upon the neighbouring lymphatic glands, radiates its in- fluences throughout the whole system ; declaring itself by eruptions upon the surface ; and these constituting the Secondary or Constitutional symptoms. In some patients no further manifestations of the disease occur; in others, affections—of bone, skin, and mucous membrane— make their appearance at a still more remote date ; and .these are termed Tertiary symptoms. The appearance presented by these venereal ulcers, primary sores, or chancres, as they are usually^'caUed, axe of very different kinds. Modern investigation, however, has succeeded in arranging them tinder two heads : 1st, Those which are not; and 2d, Those which are followed by constitutional affections. Hence it has been inferred, that there are varieties in the originating virus—that there is in fact a plurality of poisons. At present, the question is still involved in some uncertainty. But for practical purposes, it is sufficient for us to know, that all ven- ereal sores are not ahke in their characters, progress, and results; that at least two different species exist, and can readily be discriminated; and that each of these requires totally distinct treatment. But, in the fii'st place, it is important to observe, that all sores of the penis are not venereal; and, further, that all sores of the penis, caused by impure sexual intercourse, are not necessarily the product of a specific virus. The penis is as liable as other parts to ordinary causes of the common inflammatory process ; and common sores (herpetic, eczematous, etc.) may result. Again, it is liable to be excoriated during coition ; and a sore may form in consequence, quite-unconnected with inoculation of any virus. I.—Tlie Simple, Soft, Non-infecting Chancre—the Chancre without Syphilis, Chancroid. If previous excoriation, or other breach of surface exist, the sore may declare itself at once; the incipient inflammatory process becoming apparent almost immediately after connection; and this is the most fre- quent succession of events. Occasionally, however, the virus finds its way through entire skin or mucous membrane. And a day or two, con- sequently, may be occupied by a period of incubation.* Then the * There seems good reason to suppose, that in general the virus begins to act from the very moment of its application ; and that the examples of apparently pro- tracted inciibation depend, chiefly, on the circumstance of the poison having been temporarily intercepted, as it were, by a hair, mucus, a sebaceous follicle, a hardened portion of cuticle, or other obstruction.