635 TREATMENT OF HERNIA CEREBRI. in tliis manner, without apparent and direct injury to the corebral func- tions •* but, sooner or later, the formidable constitutional initation svhich accompanies will prove fatal; and there is besides a risk of the iutlammatory process extending widely from the original site, and prov- [ncr fatal by affecting imporatnt parts at the base of the cranium. Prevention may be in our power. When the brain has been exposed 3y compound and comminuted fracture, and when there is a deficiency )f the cranium, by removal of the fragments, with or without use of the irephine—the occurrence of cerebral protrusion, in consequence of inflam- matory accession, is always to be apprehended. Therefore—1. No more )i the cranial walls should be removed than is absolutely necessary. 2. Ail sharp margins or spicula protruding towards the dura mater must e removed. 3. All injury of the dura mater must be most carefully voided. And two indications fall to be fulfilled. 1. To atone for ,8 cranial deficiency, by afi'ording uniform, steady, yet gentle support to ,ho part, by compress and bandage; renewing the dressing as often as leanliness and propriety of management require. 2. By antiphlogistics, meous and efficient, to prevent or control inflammatory accession. An attempt to cure comprises greater difficulty. The obvious indi- ations are, to restrain the inflammatory process; and to repress the ixuberant growth. Tlie former is to be fulfilled by antiphlogistic treat- ent; but this must be most warily conducted, inasmuch as by this ime there is no tolerance in the system of severe remedies of that cha- acter. To fulfil the second, three means have been considered effectual; iiessure, ablation, escharotics. Pressure used to be preferred; and if mployed at all, should be direct, accurate, steady, firm, but not severe— est symptoms of compressed brain be induced, with aggravation of the amniatory risk. Ablation of the cerebral protrusion is not expedient t first, and should only be resorted to when the protrusion is consider- Me, and when we hope to relieve tension by affording escape to the ammatory products which have collected within, and are retained by ihe protrusion acting like a plug. In such circumstances, the protruding ortion should be shaved smoothly off, by a knife, on a level with the ixanial aperture. The protrusion, when examined, will be found to consist of cerebral mbstance more or less disorganized; often mixed with grumous blood, d other inflammatory products. Sometimes it contains, or is based on, .n accumulation of pus, or other inflammatory result. Then enlarge- ent of the opening in the dura mater, or even in the brain substance, ay perhaps be found useful, as a means towards alleviation, if not of ■ore. It must be recollected, however, that this is not intended to »ncourage any foolhardy exploratory incisions, or punctures ; for in many the protrusion is obviously due, not to an abscess within the mem- 'lanes, but to accumulation of serum taking place within tlie ventricles, "d thus displacing the brain substance which lies nearest the opening the cranial parietes. The formation of a Hernia Cerebri is always a ost unfavourable sign ; and the ultimate issue is seldom but unfor- * It has been supposed tliat the lost portions of cerebral substance ai-e regenerated y a reparative effort on the part of the brain ; and that tlius the nou-iuipairmeut of «rebral fuuction may be accounted for.—Lancet, No. 1399, p. 760.