831 rEKFORATION OF THE MEMBRANA TYMPANI. noavly to, its normal condition. In cases of limited ulceration, cicatriza- tion usiially takes place spontaneously with occlusion of the opening ; but when the extent of texture destroyed is considerable, the margins of the ulcer cicatrize, leaving a more or less regularly-rounded aperture. When the antero-inferior portion of the membrane is alone affected, the handle of the malleus is uniniplicated ; but when the membrane has been more extensively destroyed, the manubrium stands out by itself with a fibrous shred on either side, extending from its apex to its base, marldng the level which the membrane once occupied. When due to injury recently inflicted, the rent, occupied by a clot of blood, may be easily recognised, after cleansing the canal and intro- ducing tlie speculum. When ulceration is the cause, it commences from without in most cases; the membrane is then usually collapsed and drawn in towards the promontory of the tympanum, and the edges of the opening have more or less of an irregular outline. When, again, the perforation has been produced by a bulging of the membrane with matter contained in the tympanum, there is none of that drawing inwards, and the membrane usually retains nearly its normal position. The fact that perforation has occurred may usually be suspected from the character of the discharge; consisting, not of flakes of altered cuticle —as we saw constituted the greater part of the more solid particles in a case of purely external inflammatory affection of the ear—^but of a foetid, ropy, or muco-purulent fluid, quite characteristic when floated in water. The existence of perforation is further Imown to the patient, by the fact that he can blow air through it with a hissing sound during forced in- flation of the tympanum ; and on examining the ear with the speculum, the opening may be so large as to be at once apparent, when cerumen, or accreted cuticle, has been washed away from the meatus ; or the aper- ture may be so smaU as not to be discernible till the patient inflates the tympanum, when bubbles of air and mucus escape from the orifice. Sometimes one of these bubbles, caught in the opening, receives a pulsa- tile impression from the impulse communicated to it by the vessels of the part. In some cases the entire destruction of the membrane, with the exception of a narrow ring, leads to the absence of it being overlooked; the iTiddy internal wall of the tympanum being mistaken for a congested, velvety, or granulating condition of the membrana tympani itself. When no other disease of the middle ear co-exists, the mere existence of per- foration of the membrana tympani is insufficient to produce deafness. When, however, the aperture is large, the risk of cold attacking the ow exposed surface of the mucous membrane of the tympanum, should borne in mind as a reason for arresting the progress of ulceration hen it is advancing ; trusting that cicatrization may occur. Failing t, measures should be employed to supply the want of natural pro- on which the membrana tympani naturally afforded to the parts 'thin. The treatment therefore consists essentially of two parts—of the cer itself—and of the deficiency produced by the destruction of the embrano. The treatment of the ulcer, we have already seen, consists in the