1072 URIC CALCULI. the kidney or mucous coat of the bladder, may afford a mass of fibrin which in like manner may originate the formation ; all the more readily' of course, if a gravelish tendency previously exist. As the stone en- larges, tlio original nucleus usually retains its central position; the stone moving loosely in the bladder, and receiving addition equally on all sides. Sometimes, however, the stone is found to occupy a steady position, even when not encysted; lying undisturbed behind an enlarged prostate, liv- ing one side in constant and immediate contact with the mucous mem- brane, and presenting only a part of its periphery to the source of additional deposit. In such cases, the nucleus will be found occupying a lateral position in the stone's section; enlargement having taken place almost exclusively on that aspect which looked into the free interior of the viscus. Stones vary in their nature according to the diathesis which prevails during their formation. The following are the varieties :— I. TJie Uric or Lithic Acid Calculus ; consisting chiefly of uric acid,| but often containing a greater or less proportion of urate of ammonia.! This is by far the most common class ; comprising probably about two- thirds of all calculi. The colour is brownish yellow, sometimes like that of pale mahogany; the surface is either quite smooth, or finely tuber- culated by crystals; a section shews aggregation of the particles in laminated concentric arrangement ; the form is generally oval, and at the same time flattened; and the size may vary from that of a pea to that of a large plum. The tests are—solubiHty in caustic potass; gradual consumption before the blow-pipe; digestion in nitric acid, and gentle evaporation, producing a scarlet residue, which becomes purple on the addition of ammonia. II. Urate of Ammonia Galculus.—This salt, as just stated, enters more or less into the construction of the uric calcuH. Sometimes, but I Pig. 326. Fig. 327. Fig- 328. rarely, it forms a concretion by itself. The surface is similar to that of the uric; more frequently tuberculated than smooth ; it is of a clay colour; the fracture is fine and earthy; and the layers are concentric This comparatively rare calculus is peculiar to children. The tests are Fig. 326. The triple phosphate surrounding a mulberry concretion. Fig. 327. Nucleus sun-oundcd by oxalate of lime; and this covered by concentric layers of urate of ammonia. From a child. Fig. 328. Oxalate of lime, or mulberry calculus.