1093 LITHOTOMY. about an inch in front of the anus, on the left side ; and is carried down- wards beyond the anus, passing about midway between that orifice and tlie tuberosity of the ischium, through the skin, fat, and superficial fascia. The forefinger of the left hand is then placed in the wound, and directed upwards and onwards ; with the double object of keeping the bowel out of harm's way, and dilating the space—pushing aside areolar tissue, but not teai'ing muscular fibre. With the knife's edge, the fibres of the transverse muscle of the perineum—if it exist—are divided, along with such fibres of the levator of the anus as resist the free onward passage of the finger. The groove of the staff is now sought for ; and the finger is moved freely, so as to dilate the outward wound sufficiently—a touch of the knife's point being applied, warily, to any resisting part. Behind the triangular ligament, and in front of the prostate, the finger nail is lodged in the groove ; and over it the knife's point is made to perforate. The knife, felt distinctly on the staff, is then pushed onwards in the groove, obliquely downwards and backwards ; so as to divide the portion of the urethra which intervenes between the point of the knife's entrance and the prostate gland, and also the anterior part of the prostatic portion of the urethra. In other words, space enough is made for introduction of the finger, which follows the knife ; and the base of the prostate gland in its outer part is left intact. The finger, introduced and moved freely, increases the space considerably. And this dilatation of the wound is preferable to extensive incision ; there being much risk in cutting through the reflection of the ileo-vesical fascia, wliich is situate at the base of the outer aspect of the prostate, and which serves as an important boundary between the deep and superficial areolar tissue. By leaving this entu'e, the principal danger by urinary infiltration is shunned. And by dilata- Fig. 334. Plan of the lateral operation of Lithotomy. The knife entering the urethra.. The mark in the prostate is not intended. The right hand, too, is in the reverse position of what it ought to be.