261 CARBUNCLE. In tlie milder cases, sloughing may be prevented by suitable treat- ment. Wlien this has not been employed early enough, the sloughs separate after a time and are discharged ; healing advances more or less rapidly, with marked contraction; the constitutional symptoms propor- tionally subside; and t]\o patient recovers, with a puckered cicatrix, shewing more or less loss of substance in the cutaneous and even in the subcutaneous tissues. Treatment.—This consists of free and early incision usually of the crucial form, throughout the whole extent of the diseased mass, making sure that the knife penetrates, at each extremity of the wound, not only tlie actually carbunculous part, but a margin of sound skin too; so as certainly to relieve tension. If done early, this has as its aim the pre- vention of sloughing altogether, or at least its reduction to a minimum. Pain and the sense of tightness are immediately relieved ; arid the disease, arrested in its liigher range, begins to resolve by suppuration. Should one crucial incision not prove sufficient, as is the case in large carbuncles, others should be made, where the tension continues and the disease is unchecked. Poultice is applied for a few days; then water-dressing. When slougliing has occurred to some extent, as shewn by the boggy fenestrated state of the skin, the treatment is still the same—incision and poultice. But the cure will not be so rapid or complete; and the cicatrix, tardily come, will shew loss of substance in all the textures aifected. In the more advanced and severe cases, when sloughing is great, and the constitutional symptoms formidable—more especially in the aged— something more is required. The bistoury should be followed by the potassa fusa, which is thrust freely into the diseased mass. By it, the dying parts are at once converted into a dead eschar; Jiealthy separation is accelerated; and injury of the system, from absorption of the delete- rious products of humid putrescence, is almost at once arrested. And, further to ensure fulfilment of the last indication, the slough, as it loosens, is to be carefully removed; by knife or scissors. The practice seems severe; but no other will prove, in all respects, successful. And the more advanced the case, the greater the necessity for its adoption. Less pain is occasioned than might be supposed; the greater part of the cau- terized tissues being already in a gangrenous state. Constitutional treatment is never thoroughly antiphlogistic. At the commencement, evacuants are often necessary. For the stomach and bowels—an emetic and purgation. For the liver—podophyUin. Then, occasional alteratives ; perhaps, the hydrargyrum c. creta. The diet of the patient should consist of nutritious but non-stimulant food; bread and niilk, beef-tea, and such like, until the local inflammatory symptoms begin to abate. Tonics and stimuli are not required at the first; but when the inflammatory symptoms are past, and a typhoid condition is imminent or actually present, bark, wine, ammonia, brandy, turpentine enemata, must be given, according to the features and exigencies of the case. So long as the power of swallowing remains, remedies are to be perseveringly administered; for, provided suitable local treatment nave been practised, patients often rally completely, even though previ- ously in extremis.