759 EXTIKPATION OF THE UPPER JAW. ust be with blood and saliva, will usually be followed by a complete pontaneous arrest. Should any arterial brancli be seen, it should be ied; but pei-sistont general oozing will either cease spontaneously, or be hacked by rinsing the mouth with cold water, or witli a weak solution f percbloride of iron or matico. "When the tumour is of large size, and the malai- bono is encroached pon, this must be taken away along with the maxilla. In such a case, fui-ther incision, along the zygoma, may be necessary to enable us to ach the confines of the tumour. If the tumour be small, one very limited incision from the nostril to he free margin of the Hp will usually suffice ; it being quite possible to xpose the parts sufficiently, by raising the lip, dividing the attachment f the ala of the nose, and dissecting up the cheek, while the skin of the 08 is retained entire. When the orbital plate is not involved, the malar d nasal processes are left intact, and the saw is carried transversely across e bone from below the malar prominence tiU it cuts into the nostril; then e alveolar process, hard and soft palate, and the muscular attachments of e maxillary tuberosity, only require division to effect the complete re- oval of the portion of bone engaged in the disease. Sometimes a portion f the tumour which the saw has cut through will be found in the upper art of the cavity of the antrum which remains ; this, if the tumour is on-malignant, will be found loose and can be removed by the fingers. If, owever, the tumour is of doubtful character, and the bone which remains as aiiy indication of implication in the disease, this should determine the mplete extirpation of what remains, of the maxillary bone on that side. In no circumstance can there be any propriety in resorting to the amsy operations which were performed by our forefathers in such es ;—commencing our operation by attacking the centre of the tumour, d endeavouring to limit our removal of parts by scooping out the dis- ed texture by means of a gouge or similar instrument. The principle ■ which the operation is to be undertaken is to go beyond the dis- e, and to cut through sound osseous tissue ; grubbing at such tumours 'y secures their extension, while their complete removal gives a per- anently satisfactory result. No doubt, should the surgeon be uncertain to the soHdity of the enlargement, an exploratory puncture should be ade in the direction of the antrum, previous to operation. For, exci- ri of the upper jaw is not required in the case of mere distension of the trum by accumulation of fluid. Or should we be in doubt whether it a tumour of the maxilla, or a polypus of the antrum, then exploration the tumour through an incision made down upon it should be resorted before proceeding to extirpate the bone. In cases, however, of fibrous lypus of the posterior nares, excision of a portion of the jaw may be uired as a preliminary measure, to enable the surgeon to reach the owth so as to effect its removal. In maldng a selection of the line of cision to be preferred, it must be borne in mind that those which in- Ive the middle of the face are less obvious afterwards than the incision m the malar bone to the angle of the mouth; partly because the rtrix produces less deformity in this situation, partly because we >id the division of the branches of the portio dura, which must be cut en the incision passes obliquely through the check.