CHAPTER XXXIX. AFFECTIONS OF THE TEETH. It is unnecessary here to enter fully on the various and important tojDics connected with the subject of this chapter, A few leading surgical points may be stated; reference being made, on other matters, to the various separate works which treat of Dentistry in detail. Fii-st, it is well that the student remember how affections of the teeth are not alone connected with the convenience, comfort, and good looks of a patient—but with his health and very existence. The causes—some- times remote, sometimes tolerably direct—of many affections implicating the general frame, as well as important parts of it, proceed entirely from the contents of the alveoli. Bad teeth " are frequently the cause—and the sole cause—of violent and continued headach; of glandular swellings in the neck, terminating in or combined with abscess ; of inflammation and enlargement of the tonsils, either chronic or acute ; of ulcerations of the tongue or Hps, often assuming a mahgnant action from continued irri- tation ; of painful feelings in the face, tic douloureux, pains in the tongue, jaws, etc.of abscess and sinus of the cheek; of enlargement and change of structure in the gum and alveolus, which may lead to dangerous tumour of the bone ; "of disordered stomach, from affection of the nerves, or from imperfect mastication ; and of continued constitutional irritation, which may give rise to serious constitutional disease." In early child- hood, again, the development of the teeth within their pulp cavities, and their eruption tlirough the gums, are attended with an amount of exces- sive irritability which, although in popular language said to be " only teething," may excite various forms of acute organic disease in near or distant organs ; and tliese, if neglected, may either prove directly fatal, or give rise to secondary results which induce this disastrous issue. It is "well, therefore—as an assistance in the diagnosis and prognosis of the diseases of infancy and cliildhood—to be acquainted with the order in which the development of the ''milk" or first teeth occurs. The two central incisors in the lower jaw are usually cut first. Next come the four upper incisors, then the two lateral inferior incisors, then the four anterior molars, then the canine, and lastly the posterior molars, constituting the complete "milk set" of twenty teeth. This process, commencing some time between the fifth and tenth months of infancy, usually lasts till the end of the second year before it is complete. During this period, and particularly the early part of it, not only docs the child suffer more or less from uneasiness of the mouth and gums, attended with feverish excitement, but affec- tions of the eyes, ears, scalp, membranes of the brain, larynx, bronchi,