442 liAJJlUAL UUilK OF VAUIX. undone; with tlie hope of finding not a mere temporary alleviation, but perliaps a permanent and effectual cure ; partly by obliteration, but mainly by restoration of the normal calibre and tone. It is no uncommon thing for Hfe to be brought into peril, or even lost, through a simple varix. Suppose, as often happens, that a patient in the lower ranks, much in the erect posture, and following a laborious avocation, has varix of the leg, with ulcer of the superimposed integu- ment. Suddenly, the vein may give way by ulceration; or a knife hatchet, or other tool, makes an accidental wound Profuse hemorrhage occurs ; much blood may be lost in a few minutes ; tlie patient faints; ineffectual means are taken by the bystanders to aiTest the bleeding; he recovers ; the hemorrhage returns ; and, by its repetition, he may be fatally exhausted ere surgical aid arrive. Many lives might be saved were it more generally known that, in all cases of venous hemorrhage, gentle but accurate and steady pressure of the finger or thumb, on the bleeding point, Avill effectually restrain the flow. 2. The Radical Cure.—This depends on effecting obliteration of the affected veins. They may be directly incised, and compressed. Sup- puration of the wound necessarily follows ; and if it heal kindly by granulation, obliteration of the venous cavities will doubtless be obtained. Or a portion of the vein may be excised ; and pressure may be applied to each cut extremity, so as to restram bleeding, and favour fibrinous occlusion. Or the vein may be cut down upon, and encircled by a tightly draAvn ligature; as if it were an artery. All these three modes are doubtless perfectly equal to the obtaining of the desired obliterative result; but experience has shewn that the inflammatory process seldom ceases short of phlebitis in its worst and most dangerous aspect. Many patients, endeavouring thus to free themselves from the inconvenience of a mere varix, have lost their hves. If incision be attempted at all, it ought not to be direct, but by the subcutaneous method of puncture; so as, if possible, to avoid suppura- tion in the wound. Pressure is required afterwards, to restrain the escape of blood and prevent infiltration of texture. It should not be severe ; a very moderate degree, if applied and maintained with accuracy, is sufficient to arrest venous flow ; and severity, coming after wound, is tolerably certain to induce what we wish to avoid. This method was at one time practised by Brodie, but mtli indifferent success. Now that the principles of subcutaneous section are better understood, the execu- tion might be more skilful, and the issue more prosperous. But still two difficulties must remain; first, the risk of inflammatory excess, and danger to life thereby; second, the chance of speedy healing of the wound, the vein at once uniting and resuming its unbroken flow, just as before the operation. Modern experience and opinion are now in favour of two other modes of treatment; cauterization, and application of the twisted suture. The most convenient mode of applying caustic, is in the form of what is termed Vienna paste; equal parts of quick hme and potassa fusa. An incision is made through the skin, over that part of the vein which we wish to obliterate; and a few minutes are permitted to pass unoccupied, that capillary oozing of blood may cease. Then, the surrounding textures