TUMOUES OF THE BLADDER, 1125 peritoneum, near its fundus ; the outer coat, less extensile than the rest, is most apt to tear; and, besides, the force is likely to jam this part of the bladder on the promontory of the sacrum. There is great pain m the region ; only a small quantity of urine comes by the urethra, and that is more or less mixed with blood j no tumour of distended bladder can be felt by the rectum or vagina; the catheter draws off but little fluid, and that is bloody ; by and by the ordinary signs of urinary infil- tration are declared. If the tear has been extra-peritoneal, on the anterior aspect of the bladder, there is hope in the treatment. The urine may, in its infiltra- tion, approach the surface in the hypogastric region in a somewhat limited way; timeous and free incision of the abdominal parietes may evacuate it, with sloughed areolar tissue ; and the patient may be saved —even with complete return of the urine to its natural channel.* When the injury affects that part of the bladder invested by peri- tonum, the urine passes at once into the peritoneal cavity ; and escape from death is hardly to be looked for. StiU there is room for treatment. The catheter is introduced ; no water will probably come, unless there has been penetration through the aperture in the bladder; but the in- strument should be retained, with its point just within the neck of the bladder, so as to afford an outlet to what may be afterwards secreted. Should the patient survive for a day or two, it is possible—as dissection has shewn—that by inflammatory agglutination of the abdominal con- tents, the general cavity of the abdominal peritoneum may be shut off from that of the pelvis ; the latter becoming coated with lymph, like an abscess, and the urine confined there. Under such circumstances it has been proposed to tap this cavity from the rectum, by means of the long and curved trocar.t Nature's effort to remedy the laceration is by con- traction of the viscus, and outward protrusion of the mucous coat into the wound. In the parturient female the distended bladder is apt to suffer. By instruments in extraction of the foetus, it may be torn ; by long-con- tinued pressure of the head of an impacted foetus, it may be induced to slough or ulcerate ; and vesico-vaginal fistula is the result—provided the patient recover. Tumours of the Bladder. Fortunately this is a rare affection. The interior of the viscus, how- ever, is occasionally the seat of tumours ; and these are of two kinds. Simple mucous polj^i may form there, in considerable numbers ; simu- lating the ordinary symptoms of stone. The sound finds no calculus, but may be felt impinging on a soft and movable substance, obviously extraneous to the bladder's coat. It has been proposed to deal with this by means of the lithontriptor j but the prospect of success does not seem very inviting. Malignant tumours may form; medullary ; growing from the coats of the viscus—usually near its neck, in apparent connection with the prostate—and occupying the cavity to a greater or less extent. Mictu- rition is frequent and painful; and the pain is greatest immediately * Syme, Contributions to Surgery, p. 332. f Lancet, No. 1386, p. 352.