162 THE PIBEOUS TUMOUR. any groat size lias been attained; when the morbid structure is yet loosely connected with the surrounding parts; Avhen no deep-seated and import- ant vessels, nerves, cavities, or canals, arc yet in close contact; and ere opportunity has been afforded for degenonition. 3. The Fibrous Tumour.—A great variety of tumours might with propriety be termed fibrous ; in fact fibrous tissue is an element of almost all growths; and many of them are entirely composed of it, constituting a mass of interwoven glistening Avhite fibres, of a most characteristic appear- ance. Sometimes, however, the sec- tion is pale and dense, without any fibrous appearance to the unaided eye. Fibrous tumours are common in the uterus, where they may attain the size of an adult head. There, too, they often present the character of out- Fig. 45. growths, as well as in the nose and pharynx—the firm, fibrous polypus. The tumours are sometimes called Desmoid, from the resemblance of their fibres to those of ligament (Sec/iog); to the structure of which indeed they approximate very closely, whether viewed by the unaided eye or by the microscope. The fibres are rendered more or less trans- parent by acetic acid, at the same time swelHng up and revealing nuclei, which are sometimes oval, and some- times elongated. ISTot unfre- quently, in the midst of the fibres are found small extra- vasations of blood, the origin of which is not well under- stood, as the vascularity of these tumours is very incon- siderable—except when un- dergoing the inflammatory process, and then they may become copiously supplied with blood. "By protracted boihng, fibrous tumours are Fig. 46. almost entirely resolved into gelatine. There are varieties. In the uterus, and elsewhere, they may contain earthy matter, even to a considerable extent; or the fibrous tissue may be mixed up with muscular ; not unfrequently, also, the section may present Fig. 45. Section of a desmoid fibrous tumour from the uterus after the addition of acetic acid, shewing the nuclei of the connective tissiie corirascles.—Bennett.' Fig. 46. Large fibrous tumour growing from the neck. Was successfully removed.