HOLLOW TUMOUKS. 167 gland. The tumour is superficial, loose, painless, hard, of slow growth and small size; its surfoce generally unequal. It has no tendency to degenerate; heing in feet but a mass of unorganized matter. Absorp- tion, however, is hopeless ; and removal may become expedient on account of tlie inconveniences attending its position. From the circumscribed form, small size, and slightness of adhesion, the dissection is easy; little more than simple incision is required. Calcareous formations are also found in the ovary, in the testicle, in congenital encysted tumours, and in the lung. And in the fibrous tumour earthy matter sometimes supplants portions of its characteristic tissue. 7. Osseous Tumours are most commonly found in connection with bone, but sometimes form in considerable numbers in fibrous structures, either normal or adventitious. They also occur in enchondroma. Or rather, the enchondroma, by ordinary transition, becomes developed into the osseous. The structure of such tumours closely resembles that of ordinary bone. And they present two varieties; the dense, shewing a section like the laminated portion of the centre of the femur, and most common in flat bones ; the open or cancellated, shewing canceUi with marrow, in the in- terior of thin laminse, and ordinarily found on the shafts of the long bones. The subject will be more fully discussed in connection with Diseases of Bone. 8. The Myeloid Tumour, under the microscope, is seen to be " chiefly composed of minute structures similar to those of foetal marrow or diploe " (Paget) ; although to the unaided eye there is no such resem- blance. On the contrary, the tumour is firm and somewhat elastic ; the section shewing a " uniform grayish or yellowish shining substance, blotched or sufl"used with deep crimson, or pink, or blood colour, but not, apparently, from the presence of blood in the part." Sometimes the tex- ture is permeated by spicula or bars of bone—constituting one of the varieties of osteosarcoma. Sometimes, on the contrary, the texture is here and there softened and almost liquefied. Sometimes there are cysts. They are lowly vascular, and grow slowly. Their ordinary site is in connection with the bones. Though non-malignant primarily and essentially, that they may and do degenerate I make little doubt. They are amenable to but one mode of treatment—extirpation. 9. The Yascular Tumour.—This, involving three varieties—the capillary, arterial, and venous, according as these different tissues happen to be mainly involved—will be considered in a future chapter, along with the other diseases of blood-vessels. II. Hollow Tumours, Non-Malignant. Ordinarily cysts are divided into two kinds—the Simple and the Proliferous; or those which do or do not possess the power of producing organised structure. It is generally believed that they may be produced in one of three ways :—1, By the enlargement of elementary cells into sacculi with power of secretion; 2, by the enlargement of natural ducts or sacculi, such as