Fig. 21. Abscess opened, from within outwards—Bubo. o« THE OPENING OF ABSCESS, any size licappen to lie between the abscess and its approach to the surface. In former times, maturation of an ahscesR was talked of, as an event always to ho waited for, and made to precede artificial evacuation. It Was held as almost a maxim in surgery, that ere a knife could witlx propriety enter the cavity of an abscess, this should have attained to a certain size, not inconsiderable, and have become quite superficial Such delay may be suitable enough in the case of suppurated areolar tissue, almost or actually subcutaneous ; yet time and pain might both be saved even here. And from what has just been stated, it is verj* obvious that in all cases where the abscess is either deeply seated, or in the vicinity of important parts, to practice delay is only to incur neglect and invite disaster. The general rule, therefore, undoubtedly is to make an early and fi-ee opening in acute abscess; time and texture are saved, and pain and peril avoided. And another rule, arising out of the preceding, is— that in a truly acute abscess, cure by absorption of pus is not to be cal- culated on in the treatment. People no doubt say that " abscesses are absorbed." So they are; but not abscesses which are acute and sthenic. Chronic abscesses disappear, often enough, with a whole skin; so do acute serous and lymphous collections, simulating abscess; but, as a general rule, genuine abscess, acute and sthenic, follows but one course, and that is pointing and discharge. In some cases, it is advisable to go a step further. When we are quite certain that matter must form in the inflaming part, and when we know that highly important textures are involved, it may be wise aud well to make a very early wound, down to the centre of the suppurat- ing texture ; not with the view of evacuating pus already formed, but in order to afford a ready and safe exit to the pus which we know is about to be secreted there. Thus, for example, urinous infiltration may be prevented in deep abscess of the perinseum. Under certain circumstances, however, we purposely delay evacu- ation ; that is, when our object is to obtain destruction of a part. In obstinate glandular enlargement, for example, which has resisted Fig. 21. discussion, we usually endeavour to obtain suppuration. Were we to open such an abscess early, the glandular tumour might after all remain entire and as obstinate as before; but in order to ensure its disintegration, we delay the opening, that the pressure of the pent-up matter may act destructively. Evidently, this exception corroborates the general rule, which is converse.