1250 I'lIYMOSIS. by scissors, upon tho dorsum ; or a V-shaped portion may be cut out, to make tho line of mucous membrane correspond more nearly to that by which the skin has been divided. The flaps of mucous mem- brane are then secured, by a fine suture, to tlie corresponding portion of the integument. This mode of procedure is best suited to those cases which are congenital, or where the contraction is due to the cicatrization of a cluster of venereal sores on the very verge of the prepuce. It is also advisable when, in any case, the end of a long prepuce is still occupied by an ulcerated surface. In such circumstances, however, preliminary in- jection of the interior of the foreskin should be employed by the surgeon, lest any of the matter lodging within should contaminate the cut surface. In order to efioct the division of both skin and mucous membrane by the same incision, various ingenious contrivances have been devised. The simplest consists in introducing a harelip pin—the point sheathed -with a bit of wax—between the prepuce and glans, and causing it to protrude through the skin on the dorsum at the ink line. Vidal de Cassis re- commends that the skin and mucous membrane at the orifice should be secured, drawn equally forwards, and held steady during section by means of two pairs of artery forceps. The forceps employed for com- pressing the prepuce, and guiding the line of incision, are sometimes made specially for the purpose, with fine projecting needle-points on one blade, which pass through the tissues of the foreskin, and are received into apertures in the other blade. "While, by others, the blades are made fenestrated, so that the sutures may be passed before the preputial tex- tures are divided. These last-mentioned contrivances, though certainly accelerating the operative manipulation, and giving a mechanical pre- cision to the procedure, are objectionable as requiring special instruments, when those ordinarily carried in the pocket-case amply suffice for accom- plisliing the object in view. 3. In cases of congenital phymosis in young children, instead of per- forming a partial or complete circumcision, or slitting up the whole thick- ness of the foreskin, section of the mucous membrane of the interior, and division of the cutaneous tissue at the mere opening of the prepuce, will suffice to permit retraction. This division may be efi'ected by either knife or scissors. In employing the former, a director is first introduced j upon it a tenotomy knife is carried as far back as the corona glajidis ; and the mucous membrane is divided from beliind forwards as the knife is withdrawn. When the scissors are used, the foreskin is forcibly re- tracted, so as to expose the opening in the prejDutial mucous membrane ; the blunt point of the scissors having been iiatroduced into tliis, the tight aperture is divided, further retraction is made, and section of the entire mucous membrane is effected bit by bit, from before backwards, until the glans is left completely denuded. Should adhesions exist be- tween the glans and prepuce, these should be broken down with the finger nail; and the sebaceous secretion which is usually found lodging in the furrow should be cleaned away. The exposed mucous siirfaces should then be well oiled, and the foreskin drawn forwards. During cicatrization, the prepuce must be daily retracted, else cicatricial contrac- tion may reproduce the deformity. 4. In some cases, in cliildren as well as in adults, lateral incision of