LOCAL BLEEDING. 49 And this may possibly have the effect of relieving the general circulation ; the sluices being afterwards slowly opened, so as to permit a gradual return of the pent-up fluid. On a small scale this plan is of common and successful use. By dry cupping, for example, a considerable quantity of blood may be detached, and imprisoned within the glasses, away from the inflaming part; as over the loins, in affection of the kidney; over the shoulder, in aflbction of the joint; between the shoulders, in affection of the head or chest. This may be effected on a larger scale in the inflammatory affections of internal organs by exhausting with an air-pump an air-tight tin case applied to the leg or arm, with which it is rendered continuous by means of caoutchouc webbing. 2. Local Bleeding.—^This operates beneficially on both part and system; on the former by removing, or at all events diminishing, its sanguineous engorgement; on the system, by producing more or less ot a sedative effect on the general circulation ; indeed it is very easy so to conduct a local abstraction of blood, as to make it equal in this respect to an ordinary venesection. And, further, it is to be borne in mind, how constitutionally important is the early use of such a remedial agent directly affecting the part; inasmuch as that part being the laboratory whence issues the inflammatory change of the blood, the sooner the inflammatory process is arrested in it, the less will be the probable amount of febrile disturbance in the system. Local is preferable to general blood-letting under the following cir- cumstances :—1. When the inflammatory process is situated in a com- paratively unimportant part. There is no reason why the system should suffer, when local remedies are perfectly adequate to subjugation of the local disease. 2, When the powers of the system have been low, pre- vious to the inflammatory accession. General bleeding being obviously from this cause inexpedient, and the local change having not advanced so far as to create even a temporary tolerance of it, we content ourselves with local depletion. 3. When the inflammatory process has been fully established, and is far advanced by continuance, even great loss of blood from the arm will probably fail to produce a remedial effect on the part. To practise it, would be to weaken the frame unnecessarily. Local bleeding, even repeated, will occasion less general exhaustion under such circumstances, while it is dealing successfully with the disease. 4. Either extreme of age forbids general bleeding ; unless in extreme circumstances. Indeed, in both the very young and very old, local bleeding, when at all considerable, is always in its effects tantamount, or nearly so, to general blood-letting ; and the latter will, in the majority of cases, prove not only unnecessary to the treatment, but absolutely in- tolerable to the system. Hence, in such patients, while general blood- letting is wholly proscribed, even local bleeding must be practised with caution and reserve. A general rule applicable to local bleeding has been much insisted on by M. Lisfranc, and not without good show of reason ; namely, that blood, when drawn with an antiphlogistic object, should not be taken immediately from the affected part, unless in largo quantity. A few leeches, placed in the near vicinity of an inflaming part, relieve by draw- B