711 AMAUROSIS. uac oMiia; and lience nuicli injustice has been done to a procedure which, len^ reserved for suitable cases, and those hitherto intractable, is :loubtedly of most signal benefit. It is, however, in acute and sub- itc cases, where tlie attack is recent, Avhere the vision is impaired but , it, destroyed, where the tension is great, where the pupillary discolora- ion is slight, where the anterior chamber still exists, and where the in- . rference with vision is apparently due rather to a muddy condition of lie media than to serious retinal and choroidal structural change, that ^)od results can be expected to accrue in the way of the restoration of ;ision. In other cases, again, manifestly and hopelessly blind, the opera- ion becomes suitable as a speedy and certain means of affording relief lom pain; while in some chronic cases, even where the cornea has lecome considerably opaque, where the perception of light is dim, but \here the patient has already lost an eye, it may be prudent to under- ake the operation as the only means we possess by which we can hope ,1 save what vision yet remains, and possibly to obtain some small .mount of improvement. These are not the only forms of pathological change met with in the t tina and choroid. But as the other affections are unattended with lainful or inflammatory symptoms, and we become acquainted with them ather in their results, and from their ophthalmoscopic manifestations, re prefer classifying them under the title of Amaurosis. But before laving the subject of inflammatory affection of the deeper seated textures [f the eyeball, of idiopathic origin, it is well to recollect that a snjopura- 've ophthalmitis, sometimes attended by very painful symptoms, though ore commonly causing but Httle pain, may occur as an accompaniment phlebitis, of pyjemia, or of puerperal fever. In such cases, the puru- !nt matter usually collects in connection with the choroid—between it d the retina. Unless the whole globe becomes converted into an scess, and is attended with suffering so severe as to render the patient .ore ahve to the pain in the eye than to its constitutional cause, or to s accompaniments in other parts of the body, there is no propriety in. ly interference with its progress. Should any operation be resorted to, is enough to make a free incision through the globe, for the removal the cornea, lens, and iris; the case, so far as the functions of the eye e concerned, being desperate. Amaurosis. By this term is understood impairment of vision, more or less com- pete, due to some change in the retina, optic nerve, or brain ; the bdia remaining transparent. The change may be either structural or pnctional. In the latter case, there is good hope of cure by suitable reatmentj in the former, even palliation is often hardly within our Wer. Tlie causes are :—change in the retina, choroid, optic nerve, or brain, the inflammatory process, acute or chronic ; compression of these parts any way—as by extravasated blood, inflammatory product, or forma- |>u of a tumour; a congested state of these parts induced by over ^ertion of the eye or brain, by irregularity of bowels, by habitual ex-