1340 FLAT-FOOT. to the sole of the foot. To the outer side of the leg-piece is attached a foot-piece, hy means of a steel joint. This steel joint, regulated by two pinch screws, admits of a flexion movement above with the leg-piece, of which the axis corresponds to that of the ankle-joint; and of a rota- tion movement below, where it is fixed to the foot-piece. This last part exactly corresponds in outline to the sole of the foot. In application, the foot-piece is first detached from the jointed part, and applied to the sole of the foot, retaining it there by means of a narrow roller. It is again jointed on to the leg splint, which in turn is fastened to the limb by means of the continuation of the same bandage. The degree of flexion and rotation of the ankle and foot is then arranged, and the desired position maintained by tightening up the pinch screws. By the period when the child commences to walk, if friction and galvanism have been diligently employed, the muscles should have become more fully developed, and not shrunken by the use of the apparatus. So soon as the child can support its weight upon its limbs, the splints should be taken off during the day, and applied only during the night; while friction, shampooing, galvanizing, and cold douching of the legs, should be daily employed. It will be obvious from this de- scription that the operative treatment is in reality a mere adjunct to the use of suitable apparatus, and to the employment of local treat- ment adapted to the condition of the muscles of the affected limbs. If, then, these essentials are neglected—and they are frequently very irksome to both the little patient and his friends, who should be taught to employ them aright—it need be no wonder that shrunken paralysed legs and feet are so frequently complained of as the price paid for greater symmetry of appearance. Indeed, by some, the results of tenotomy have been regarded as so unsatisfactory that it has either been altogether abandoned by them, or resorted to with depreciatory explanations. As a means of overcoming these deformities without tenotomy, and at the same time with the view of making the adjusting apparatus of such a kind as shall permit the patient to move about and exercise the limbs, a new method has been recommended by Mr. Barwell. Caoutchouc straps as springs, according to this method, are laid along the surface in the line of the enfeebled muscles and their tendons, and affixed to cutaneous origins and insertions by means of hooks catching on eyelet- holes set in strong adhesive plaster, which is applied longitudinally, circularly, or spirally to the parts. By this method the author represents that he has obtained a large success in the treatment of such deformities; but it must require a fiirther and more general trial, experimentally, before its superiority to tenotomy and the rigid apparatus properly employed can be admitted. Flat-foot. Young adolescents, of delicate health, and exposed to considerable exertion on the feet, are liable to serious lameness from sinking of the arch of the tarsus; apparently in consequence of relaxation of the con- necting ligaments. The arch of the foot is lost, the tibia projects in- wards, the foot turns out, the ankle is apt to swell, and progression is