1050 POLYPUS OF THE RECTUM, subsoquont plethora, may entail the most calamitous results. The ope- ration, if had recourse to at all, is not performed till after due preparation of the system. And the after treatment is conducted with much care and caution. Similar precaution is requisite in the case of females, from whom blood escapes in large quantity and periodically, because vicarious. Such rectal bleeding, however, is not always connected with piles. It xnay proceed from the lining membrane of the bowel, little if at all clianged —especially in cases of retroversion of the uterus. In advanced cases of bleeding piles, it is sometimes difficult to de- termine whether the bruit, palpitation, and other signs of diseased heart are primary or secondary, dependent on an organic cause, or merely on anaemia. Diagnosis, in this respect, requires much caution; and when in doubt, we may lean to the side of operation—ready with leeches, seton, or other compensating treatment, should troublesome consequences threaten. Polypus of the Rectum. Simple polypi are occasionally, yet seldom, found in the rectum; most commonly in children ; and then they may be mistaken for prolapsus. In the adult, the fundus may become hard, rough, and ulcerated, and prove troublesome by bleeding. There is frequent desire to go to stool, with discharge, uneasiness, and occasionally pain and swelling. At each evacuation, the growth is apt to be protruded, and usually requires re- placement. Treatment is removal, by scissors or ligature. Obviously, the preferable method is by deligation; but, after the ligature has been secured on the neck of attachment, the main body, if large, may be safely cut away, in order to prevent the foetid discharge with which so large a slough would certainly be attended. In some cases, they may be dealt with satisfactorily by means of the ecraseur. Prolapsus Ant. In consequence of relaxation, the rectum may become everted, on straining, and protrude beyond the anus ; and the protrusion may be either constant or occasional. Also, it may be either partial or complete; that is, the protrusion may consist of the entire bowel—or rather, as is by some supposed, of the sigmoid flexure of the colon ; or it may be merely a descent of the mucous coat alone—a frequent concomitant, as has already been observed, of internal hemorrhoids. This partial prolapsus may occur at any age ; and is probably most common in the middle aged; but the complete form is an affection almost peculiar to the two extremes of life; old age and childhood. The child is liable to irritation of tlie bowel, by ascarides, or by a perverted seci'ction from the general mucous coat; and the habitual straining, which results, tends to the change in question. In the old man, too, there is much straining; by reason of enlarged prostate, or debility of the muscular coat of the bladder. In the cliild there is much crying ; in the old man much coughing. Stone and stricture may induce prolapsus at any age. The tumour varies in size, from a mere annular border to the anus—