CHAPTER III. SUPPURATION. Pus (p. 31), it has been already stated, may be formed either in the paren- chyma of a part, or on its free siu-face (p. 32). The former condition is termed Abscess—of great frequency of occurrence, and of much import to the practical surgeon. Acide Abscess—Sthenic. "When suppuration follows the inflammatory process of an acute and sthenic kind, we find the morbid, state resolvable into tliree parts, as formerly stated (p. 33) ] capable of being represented by concentric rings. Within the central will be found the pus, extravasated blood, and broken-up original texture. Within the second is the fibrinous pro- duct, with more or less of the results of connective-tissue-proliferation advanced towards organization; limiting, or tending to limit, the sup- puration within the central space. The third or external circle represents the diffuse serous infiltration, which invariably surrounds, more or less, the central and more important changes. When this threefold state has continued for some time—and more especially when the duration is such as to warrant the appellation of chronic being given to the abscess—the limiting fibrinous matter becomes more and more condensed, its central aspect ultimately assuming a membranous appearance and a membranous function; having a smooth villous surface, somewhat like the mucous, from which the formation of pus continues as from a free surface. Hence it is termed the Pyogenic Membrane; endowed with very considerable capability of secretion, but as an absorbent surface comparatively feeble. In regard to this latter point, however, it may be iiseful to remember that the pus globule is of comparatively large size, not soluble in its own serum, and there- fore, unless it becomes disintegrated through fatty degeneration, incapable of ordinary absorption; the serous portion of pus may be taken up readily enough, but the solid part probably remains but little affected. And thus the apparent feebleness of absorbent power may depend, not so much on defect of either structure or function in the pyogenic membrane, as on the nature of the fluid containing organic structures on which it has to operate. Sudden suppression of purulent formation is always to be regarded as an untoward event. It is more liable to occur in the case of free and open suppuration, than in an unopened abscess. It may be the result of some accidental occurrence, the nature of which we may be unable at the time to ascertain ; or it may bo caused by injudicious stimulation applied to the part, reinducing the inflammatory crisis, and for a time at least arresting secretion—even of a morbid kind. The suppression, however