AFFECTIONS OF TENDON. 5G9 particularly required in tlie case of muscles forming a part of the parietes of the thorax or abdomen. Union is not by reproduction of muscle, but by dense ligamentous texture. For obvious reasons, use of the limb is to be very gradually resumed. Rupture of Tendon. Tendon is ruptured, under the same circumstances as muscular fibre. Tliis tissue is more resistful of violence than muscle, and consequently in the tearing away of fingers or other parts by extreme force, long [strings of tendon may be seen attached to the severed parts ; the mus- cular tissue having given way, perhaps high up in the remaining limb. The part most commonly affected by simple rupture, is the Tendo AchilUs. The symptoms and signs of the injury are similar to those of ruptured muscle, but of a major degree. The pain and swelling are greater; the sensation of injury, and of something having yielded, is more distinct ; and not nnfrequently the patient states that it is accom- panied by a tolerably distinct snap, or other sound, while he feels as though he had received a blow on the part with a stick, or been struck by a stone. The hiatus, at the part, is wider and more apparent; the lameness is more complete, and falling is more certain. Treatment is conducted as for ruptured muscles ; if possible witb more care to prevent motion and insure apposition ; and usually for a onger period. Reparation is by plastic production, which is at first re- tmdant in volume; but, becoming more and more dense, it ultimately ccupies the space to no undue extent; not constituting true tendon, but f a firm, fibrous character, very similar to ligament in appearance, and ivell suited to the discharge of its assumed functions. Tendon, when cut, reunites in the same manner as after rupture. If he injury has been inflicted by accident, it is usually compound ; the ound tends to inflame and suppurate ; and the cure is likely to prove edious, by granulation. When the division is by design, as for the cure f deformity, it is of the subcutaneous character; reunion is simple, and omparatively rapid. In the latter case, it is not essential that the divided extremities hould be in absolute contact; there is a power of eflicient reproduction, ven when a considerable space intervenes ; a circumstance of mucb im- 'OTtance in modern surgery—directed to the relief of deformity. Ununited Tendon. ^ A divided tendon sometimes fails to unite; leaving an unoccupied Foid between the separated extremities, and rendering the part almost or pite useless. To remedy this state, an incision may be made, in order P pare the retracted ends and unite them by suture. Or the process by jubcutaneous puncture may be employed, as for ununited fracture. Of |he two methods, the latter, on account of its comparative mildness, is yeatly to be preferred, in the first instance, at all events ; experience paving proved it to be quite successful When a tendon is divided within its sheath, and even when this in-