12 INFLAMMATOEY PAIN. fill than a similar affection of mucous membrane ; while an attack upon serous and fibrous tissues is more painful than either. Pain is not always inflammatory : it may be the attendant on spasm, or on simple irritation. The pain of spasm is intensely violent from the outset; and, though often abating mure or less during its stay, seldom advances to a higher degree than that with which it began. Inflamma- tory pain, on the contrary, usually commences with a slight amount, and steadily advances; hourly increasing, until either the disease is subdued or the part has perished by gangrene. Pain of spasm is often relieved by pressure; at all events is not aggravated by it. In the inflammatory, pressui'e, even sHght, is quite intolerable. In colic, a gratefid sensation may be produced by placing weight upon the belly, while in peritonitis the slightest touch is torture. In neuralgia—an example of Irritation—pain is severe at its first onset, like that of spasm; it remits much and variously during its course ; and often intermits wholly, during intervals more or less pro- longed. Inflammatory pain may remit, but only slightly; and it is never intermittent. It may disappear suddenly; but then it is not likely to return—the part having, in all probability, ceased to be amenable to further vital change. Such are characteristics of inflammatory pain. It usually commences in a comparatively slight form, and steadily increases; it is constant, until either the disease resolve or the part die; and it is invariably aggravated by pressure. Sudden disappearance always excites suspicion; for this is inconsis- tent with its ordinary character; which is, to grow steadily as the disease advances, and to subside as this recedes. In neuralgia, excruci- ating agony often ceases in an instant, for some hours is wholly absent, and then probably returns as violent as before. But it is not so with inflammatory pain. On its abrupt cessation, we do not dream of a mere remission of its cause; but suspect, and too often with truth, that the part is no longer capable of sensation, and has lapsed into gangrene. For example, a portion of bowel is acutely inflaming, connected with hernial protrusion or not; the pain is excruciating; on a sudden it ceases, and the patient gratefully expresses his relief, and thinks he is better, perhaps safe; the surgeon, on the contrary, is alarmed, and looks to the pulse, the surface, and the face; he finds them feeble, cold and clammy, and collapsed; the part has mortified. In the inflammatory process pain is sometimes absent, or, as it were, latent. An acute abscess may have formed in a limb previously paralytic, deprived of sensation as well as motion; and the patient's attention may have been scarcely attracted to the part, by the perception of aught unusual. Or injury of a limb has been accompanied with affection of the brain, inducing coma, perhaps long continued; and in the limb inflammatory change may be advancing destructively, yet without pain being either felt or evinced by the sufferer. In such cases, the surgeon has, as it were, to feel for his patient, and, in the absence of all expression of pain, be unusually attentive to the other s^miptoms of local disorder. Pain sometimes may be termed sympathetic; referred to a part at a