1167 SYPHILITIC ERUPTIONS. ' themselves consecutively ; those which appear first being usually more generally diffused, and implying less derangement in the nutrition of the cutaneous textures, than those which occur later, and wliich produce more serious lesions of structure. The best classification of cutaneous sypliilitles is that of Cazenave, who an-anges them in the order in which they naturally tend to manifest themselves. It is as follows :—1. Exanthematous ; 2. Papular ; 3. Squamous; 4. Vesicular; 5. Bullous ; 6. Pustular ; 7. Tubercular. Some authors speak of the primary and secondary syphilides. By the former are signified the condyloma, which we have already described ; shewing that, even according to those who claim for it a special power of communicating the disease, it never constitutes a true primary lesion— artificial inoculations practised with matter derived from a condylomatous surface, invariably producing the indurated chancre, and not a condyloma. Although the eruptions of the cutaneous surface never fail in any case—usually appearing about the sixth week after the commencement of the indurated chancre—there are determining causes which appear to possess the power of hurrying on their development. Such are the Ijonphatic temperament, privations, violent exercise, the excessive use of stimulants, especially of malt Kquors, and sudden alternations of tempera- ture. They also occur at an early period in young children, infants, and females ; in such cases condyloma usually being the form first developed. Certain general characters appertain to the Syphilodermata, no one of which possesses a special diagnostic value ; but when found com- bined in any case, they usually suffice, along with the patient's history, the other accompaniments, and the effects of treatment, to render diag- nosis a very simple matter. These characteristics are :—1. The coppery colour; 2. Generally rounded form; 3. Desquamative tendency; 4. Persistence ; 5. Poly- morphous character; 6. Absence of pruritus. Syphilitic Exanthemata. These are of two kinds, the Erythematous and Roseolar ; and one or other, or even both combined, generally form the earliest cutaneous manifestation of constitutional syphilis. The usual date of their acces- sion is from the tliirtieth to the sixtieth day ; it is uncommon during the period between the sixtieth and ninetieth ; seldom occurring durino' the fourth month, they are exceedingly rare in the fifth. The eruption consists of rose-coloured spots, which seem seated in the texture of the cutis vera, and are unaccompanied by any thickening, elevation, or desquamation of the surface. The eruption may either be a uniform flush (erythema), or a mottled discoloration (roseola). The abdomen, front and back of the chest, the shoulders and upper part of the thighs, are usually the parts where it is most pronounced. It is extremely rare to find the eruption accompanied by any febrile reaction, local uneasiness, or rapid and spontaneous disappearance ; a circumstance which serves to distinguish It from the infantile exanthems, and from the resinous eruptions usually produced by copaiba. When the syphilitic exanthems are expected and looked for, it will usually be found that they appear gradually ; although, from the effects of violent exercise or warm bathing, they are sometimes