964 DISEASE OF THE IIIBS. Dislocation of the Ribs. Post-mortem examination has shewn that the head of the rih may be displaced from its connection with the spinal column, without fracture. Such an accident must be a very rare one ; and displacement can only occur to a very slight extent. The injury cannot he distinguished from fracture during life, and requires the same treatment. The costal carti- lages are sometimes separated from the sternum, and the lower ones may become displaced from each other as well. ThLs is still more rare. The thoracic bandage, with pressure applied over the started cartilage, is all that need be emjjloyed. Fracture of the Sternum. The sternum is sometimes broken by direct violence, and displaced inwards. The junction of the upper portion with the central, or some part of the central portion, is the common site of this injury ; the xiphoid cartilage and its attachment rarely sustaining fracture or separation. The fracture is usually transverse; and the lower fragment, the more prominent—sometimes actually riding over the upper. The signs are plain; deformity by displacement being at once discernible, and crepitus being felt during the backward and forward movement of the lower fragment during each respiratory act. Treatment is as for broken ribs; and here assuredly without any compress over the broken bone. There is the same necessity for watchful anxiety as to the state of the thoracic contents as in cases of other thoracic injury. Caries and Necrosis of the Ribs and Sternum. These bones are liable to caries and necrosis, in connection witli injury, and as results of tertiary sypliilis. The ordinary local and con- stitutional treatment should be put in force; except in those cases of chronic caries in which the disease is slight, and has been of very long duration, in a feeble system. Then, operative interference is apt to prove injurious ; and it is well to be contented with mere palliation. In cases, too, where the affection of bone is secondary to suppurative disease of the chest, all active treatment of the affected bone should be abstained from. The external disease is but a symptom, and probably a sequence, of an internal and much more important disorder. When operation on a diseased rib is necessary, there need be no fear of injuring the pleura, or that bleeding from the intercostal vessels will render the operation hazardous or difficult; for the long-continued irrita- tion has produced such condensation and thickening of those parts which lie between the bone and the pleural cavity, as to afford ample space for manipulation. Trephining the sternum, recommended first by La Martiniere for the evacuation of purulent collection forming in the anterior mediastinum, is not likely to be required in the case of an abscess, while still confined to the posterior aspect of the bone; as the symptoms which iudicate^ its presence, must always be very dubious. When such an abscess points