254 VARIETIES OF ERYSIPELAS. in which tho symptoms of "biliary derangement not only precede local change, in a marlced form; but are, througliout tho whole progress of the case, of a very prominent character. Either simple or phlegmonous erysipelas may be so characterized; but the former by far the more fre- quently. In truth, the local disease is usually slight; seldom reaching suppuration ; and the constitutional symptoms also partake in but a slight degree of the inflammatory tyi^e. The more prominent general symptoms are;—headache, nausea, bilious vomiting, pain or weight at the epigastrium, thirst, loathing of food, eyes and face suffused, general hue yelloAv, sclerotics especially discoloured, foul dry tongue, and a bitter taste in the mouth, bowels constipated, urine scanty, and depositing a copious turbid sediment. Locally, the ordinary signs of the inflammatory process are but sKght; and redness is almost merged in the prevailing yellow discoloration of the integument. Treatment will be mainly of the constitutional kind ; emetics, pur- gatives, alteratives, diuretics, and diaphoretics, as circumstances require; and on these the practitioner is mainly to rely, for cure of the local as well as of the general symptoms. Iron will be given sparingly, and secondarily, if at all. Treatment of the part is but a secondary matter, and is gentle, in proportion to the disease for which it is demanded; fomentation, rest, bandaging. Erratic Erysipelas.—^The peculiarity of this form is its tendency to shift from one part to another. Not extending merely, and occupying a larger space, as simple erysipelas does ; nor leaving one part suddenly, to reappear at another, somewhat distant—as any form of the disease may do. But leaving one part for another; and yet maintaining the exten- sion continuous and unbroken. The inflammatory process is invariabiy slight; often little more than a mere erythema. Its occurrence is almost uniformly indicative of a feeble and impaired system. The constitutional symptoms are always antecedent, as well as attendant j of the asthenic kind ; and if not actually typhoid, tending manifestly to that character. Treatment, accordingly, has little to do with the affected part. Fomentation and rest suffice for that. And if the spreading be in an unfavourable direction, as towards the face or scalp, it may be diverted into another course, by the use of nitrate of silver as a hmiting agent. Or a bHster may be applied—to concentrate the inflammatory process. The system mainly occupies our regard. Alteratives, tonics, stimuli, are given as required. When sinking has fairly threatened, turpentine, given by both mouth and rectum, will be found an excellent remedy, in addi- tion to the ordinary means of support. Periodic Erysipelas.—By this term is understood a form of the disease, characterized by frequency, and sometimes by accuracy, of return; either reverting always to the same part, or selecting a variety of pai'ts for its seizure. Sometimes the season of the year, sometimes the occur- rence of menstrual function, seems to determine the period of return. The case is usually slight. Diu'ing the attack local treatment need be but gentle. Our object is not to cut short the disease, but only to smooth its course; and the safety of texture demands no energy of interference. Repellents are especially reprehensible. Iron internally is specially valuable, availing