TREATMENT OF FALSE JOINT. 551 for such cases as defy the use of milder measures ; besides it must bo loincinbered tliat when resorted to it has been found to fail. When .Muployed, the use of the bone-cutting pliers will be found more service- blo, as well as more satisfactory in the result, than the application of t he saw. When the principle of " subcutaneous incision " came into use, the Mea struck me that tliis important addition to sui-gery might be made vailable towards the remedy of ununited fracture; and accordingly I reposed that a strong narrow knife, passed obliquely down to the part, should have its edge freely moved about in aU directions, so as to cut up the ligamentous bond of union, as well as the dense investment of the ends of the bones; the knife being then carefully withdrawn, and the puncture covered by plaster or collodion. The parts will probably he reduced to a state very similar to what attends on ordinary fracture at the first. A pouch of blood will form; the blood will be absorbed ; plastic matter will take its place and become organized, while, at the < ime time, secretion and organization may advance from the ends of the one, and consolidation, as by regular callus, be completed. The connecting materials of the " false joint " are disrupted and ex- rited, not destroyed. They are valuable towards the formation of bone, when brought into and maintained in a state of moderate inllammatory cliange. My own experience,* speaks in favour of the practice. It is surely lietter than—though somewhat like—the practice of John Hunter, whose treatment of an ununited fracture of the humerus, Mr. Samuel Cooper teUs us, was as follows :—" There was an artificial joint, and he made an incision into it; and then having introduced a spatula, he irritated the whole surface of the artificial joint. This brought on considerable in- flammation, which ended in anchylosis, and the patient was cured." The subcutaneous puncture and the narrow knife, if they are likely to obtain the same ultimate result, are surely preferable to the incision and tlie spatula. Tailme of the method, in the hands of others, I am inchned to attribute to too great gentleness in the use of the knife's point between the bones. There it can scarcely be used too roughly, provided it is kept clear of the vascular and nervous trunks. Eubbing the ends of the bone rudely together, and then re-applying retentive apparatus as before, has hitherto given no encouraging success, where the careful use of absolute repose has been previously tried. Dr. Physick's seton is less formidable than the saw ; but chance of iailure with it is not slight j and in fractures of the lower extremity, indeed, its success may be regarded as only the exception to the '-,'oneral rule. Mr. Amesbury applied continuous and severe pressure * ^[onthly Journal of Medical Science, June 1848. In one instance, this method 'iccecded, quite beyond my expectation, in consolidating an nnnnited fracture of the humerus, which had sustained compound injury about ten months before. The lones overlapped, and could not be adjusted. Altogether the case was so very un- i'romisirig as led me to remark, while performing the subcutaneous puncture, that it a-s an unfair test of the practice ; and that, under such circumstances, a successful jwe could scarcely be expected. Yet, on the first undoing of the splints, five weeks tter the puncture, the parts were found quite firm.