804 SWALLOWING OF IRRITANTS. two tracheal rings gives way, and a like result ensues. Accouclieurs have, occasionally, opportunities of meeting with this lesion as a comi)li- cation of the maternal efforts during the pains of labour. By making many and early punctures in the aifected part—or by incision—we may give an outward escape to the air, and so avert threatened disaster. Hernia Bronclialis.—A rare affection, so called, has been observed in those who habitually strain the throat in loud and sustained calling. A fold of the lining membrane is protruded outwards between two tracheal cartilages; and thus a greater or less tumour, soft and compressible, is formed, according to the extent of protrusion. The only remedial means advisable are such outward applications as are likely, by affording exter- nal support, to oppose further enlargement. And the exciting cause— straining of the tliroat—is, of course, to be discontinued. Apoplexy of the larynx may occur ; blood being infiltrated copiously beneath the mucous membrane. Symptoms may be urgent, simulating croup or oedema glottidis, and so threatening asphyxia as to render relief by bronchotomy inevitable.* Tlie Accidental Swalloiving of Boiling Water, Acids, or other Irritant Fluids. It is common, among the poorer classes in some localities, to have but one vessel, a large kettle, to hold water for culinary purposes— sometimes cold, at other times hot, according to circumstances. A child, accustomed to have its thirst assuaged from such a source, is likely to help itself, when no one else is near; and, in doing so, may imhap- pily fill its mouth with Avater of a boiling temperature. Instantly an attempt is made by the little sufferer to eject the fluid ; and in the back- ward movement of the hot water, partial entrance into the open riraa glottidis is not unhkely to occur, during the expulsive paroxysm. The result is a scalding of the air passage, as well as of the pharynx and upper part of the oesophagus; and by swelling in the former situation, during the subsequent inflammatory process, the most serious results may ensue. Adults may swallow acids or other acrid fluids, either accident or intentionally. In the latter case, the air passage is seldom injured The determination to the act of swallowing shuts the glottis, and the fluid passes downwards in the gullet alone. But if a patient accidentally attempt to swallow a fluid of this kind, mistaking it for some other of a harmless nature, the expulsive effort is instantly made—as in tlic case of the" child with hot water ; the glottis is opened in the paroxysm, aiid the noxious fluid effects a partial entrance there. The treatment of such cases requires to be conducted mth an energy proportioned to the urgency of their nature. The inflammatory process cannot be prevented; but it should be our anxious endeavour to mo- derate and delay its onset, and to effect its speedy retrocession. The most active antijihlogistics are employed—immediately ; bleeding from both part and system ; outward fomentation ; antimony. It may be that by such means the progress of inflammatory tumescence may be * Montlily Journal, August 1847, p. 126.