1247 rl^IAPISM. mm of a wart; and frequently is surrounded by warty formations. It may s^^read rapidly. The afToction is of ;he nature of epithelioma. Cure is by excision, or by thorough destruction by tneaus of chloride of zinc paste ; and jertainty of success is to be hoped for 3nly at an early stage—when the disease is as yet limited to the integument, and when no great amount of even this tissue is involved. At a more advanced period, when the testicle is exposed, and pro- bably contaminated, a chance may yet be afforded by castration; provided the groins are free from secondary enlarge- ment, and the constitution is not much Fig. 346. broken down. Priapism. Permanent erection of the penis occurs in three forms. 1. From injury of the spine. This has been abeady noticed, as a distressing symptom of spinal fracture. 2. From vascular and nervous excitement, induced by excessive venereal stimulus. The turgescence may be such as temporarily to occlude the urethra, causing retention of urine; and this is to be treated by antiphlogistics and antispasmodics, as formerly noticed. 3. A more formidable variety may occur from the same cause as_^the preceding; dependent on extravasation of blood into the corpora cavernosa—a vessel of some size having given way. In a case of urgency, it may be necessary to evacuate the extravasated blood by incision; but, in general, it is better to treat the case according to the general principles applicable to bruise ; averting inflammatory access, and favouring absorption. If incision be made, there is great risk of trouble- some suppuration following; incapacitating the organ afterwards for normal erection. Sometimes chronic product, of a plastic kind, and probably of inflam- matory origin, takes place in the corpus cavernosum; producing thicken- ing, perhaps with enlargement of the part, and more or less obliteration of the erectile tissue. Erection, consequently, is imperfect and painful. Treatment will mainly consist of counter-irritation and sorbefacients to the part, with alteratives internally. Should stricture co-exist, that must be removed in the ordinary way,* Camphor and henbane, or belladonna pills, in which many believe, are usually of but little service in the inflammatory and spasmodic forms ; an opiate enema, and anti- monials, or an emetic, proving vastly more efficacious. Phymosis. Phymosis and Paraphymosis both depend on preternatural contrac- * II. J. Johnson, Lancet, No. 1473, p. 481. Fig. 346. An aggravated exami)le of chimney-sweepers' cancer ; much superficial texture destroyed.