FKACTURE OF THE SPINE. 947 trrows imbecile, as well as the body; and the patient dies, often with symptoms of slow compression. The sjjinal cord, in such circumstances, may be found more or less atfected with ramolUssement; sometimes, how- ever, it presents no organic lesion. Eut little benefit can be expected from treatment. Of heroic remedies there is no tolerance. Indeed, the prudent practitioner contents himself with enjoining gi'eat temperance in all things ; wliile by the employment of ordinary and simple means he seeks to palliate symptoms, and delay the fatal issue. In some cases the progress of the disease undergoes a temporary, in others and more rarely, a permanent arrest. Fracture of the Spine. Severe and direct violence is more likely to cause fracture than dislo- cation of the vertebrje ; these bones being so intimately connected to each other by their bodies and articulating processes. The sxnnous pro- cesses alone may be broken. There is then little, or more commonly no, displacement; the fracture is recognised by the mobility of the broken process; and the consequences of the injury, so far as the fracture is concerned, are unimportant. The occurrence of slight displacement in those cases, with the presence of symptoms of either concussion or com- pression of the cord, may excite some anxiety on the part of the surgeon as to whether more serious fracture of the vertebrae with displacement has not taken place; and there is no way by which this can positively be determined, till time be aiforded for the spontaneous disappearance of the paralysis, which will happen if due merely to concussion, or extravasation of blood external to the membranes. But fracture travers- ing the posterior arch of the bone, effecting a complete solution of con- tinuity in both posterior laminae, is liable to be attended by displacement forwards of the separated fragments upon the cord, and may give rise to more or less serious and persistent symptoms of compression or concussion. This accident is liable to be mistaken for the less for- midable one of fracture of the spinous process, as well as for the more serious one of fracture of the body of the vertebrse. The mode in which the accident has occurred—fracture of the posterior arch being most likely to be occasioned by blows iipon the corresponding spinous process— will serve to assist us in arriving at a conclusion in such cases of difficulty. If there is no displacement, the treatment consists merely of repose, with the employment of those measures already mentioned for the condition of concussion or compression of the cord, should such symptoms be present. If symptoms of compression exist, and are persistent, and apparently occasioned by displacement of the fractured bone, it has been suggested that operative interference should be resorted to, in order to elevate the depressed portion. This suggestion, apparently originating ■with Paulus ^gineta, was very reasonably and successfully adopted in 1762 by Louis, in a case of gunshot wound implicating the arch of ono of the vertebra}, the patient surviving, with partial paralysis. The younger Cline (1814), Tyrrell, and others have resorted to this procedure, cutting down upon the arch of the vertebra, sawing it through on each side, and removing it along with the spinous process. In the case of fracture of the bodies of the vertebraj—as when Cline operated—the proceeding