REMOVAL OF THE TONSIL, 80G It is sometimes a difficult matter to elfect this little operation satis- factorily upon a struggling and crying child. In such circumstances chlo- roforni should be administered ; when, keeping the mouth open, and the tongue depressed by means of a spatula held by an assistant, the requisite manojuvres can easily be eflected in a very few seconds. Or the mouth being forcibly opened, and the child held still, the tonsil- guillotine may be used ; an inge- nious instrument adapted for at once fixing and removing the pro- truding part. The bistoury, how- ever, and the hook-forceps—dating back as far as the time of Celsus —have this twofold advantage, that the instruments are the simplest pos- sible and always at hand. Scissors, although they might seem better suited to the removal of such parts, are rarely capable of effecting the complete division with a single stroke. In one instance, where a pair of double-action scissors were employed, not only was the section incom- plete, but the scissors and the tonsil had to be removed together by com- pleting the operation with the bistoury. ligature of the glandular projection has also been recommended, but it is difficult to understand how it could ever have been effected. Objections have been taken to such operations, on the ground that dryness of the fauces is apt to follow, with imperfect articulation ; and that sometimes also there has seemed to be a certain amount of sexual impotence induced. The experience of most surgeons does not tend tn sustain such allegations; at the same time there is no doubt that most cases of chronic enlargement of the tonsil, in adolescents, can be got rid of by local discutients and constitutional alteratives, and that therefore operative interference should not be urged upon the friends of patients, unless a fair trial of milder measures has failed; or unless the enlarge- ments are so great as to meet midway; or unless the patient's general health is suffering from the long-continued faucial irritation ; or unle?> the guttural tone of the patient's voice, his deafness, or the snoring a1 nigjit, interfere seriously with his comfort, or malce him a nuisance to hi^ family or associates. In all cases of secondary syphilitic enlargements of the tonsils, ; similar ablation of the projecting portion of both glands will be founi very materially to hasten the restoration of the throat to its health; condition. Fig. 291. Excision of tbe tonsils.