53 PURGATIVES. limiting the evil 8. Nor should they be applied, unless considered truly indispensable, where bandaging or other retentive means are of paramount importance ; as in fractures of the Hmbs. For, under such circumstances, the wounds are apt to inflame and ulcerate ; compeUing a discontinuance of the most important part of the apparatus, and per- haps at a critical time of the cure. Blood may also be taken from a part by Punctures; as in simple erysipelas. By Scarification; as in inflammatory affections of mucous membrane—^the eyelids for example. By Incision; as in phlegmonous erysipelas. But, in addition to abstraction of blood, these wounds per- form the more important ofiice of withdrawing the inflammatory serous and fibrinous product; thereby aff'ording most valuable relief to the part; not only removing what has already collected, but also affording a ready exit to what is forming ; and so saving the surrounding textures from destructive infiltration. Purgatives are generally an important item of the antiphlogistic catalogue ; and are used early. They disburden ; by clearing away accumulated matter from the intestinal canal; so overcoming one of the most prominent symptoms of the inflammatory disease—constipation. And likewise, by such clearance, they favour the action of other medi- cines. They deplete ; by causing an increase of mucous exhalation from the lining membrane of the bowels. They may exert a derivant effect in favour of the inflaming part, by bringing an unusual amount of blood to the intestinal canal. They are further of use by opposing assimilation, and thereby cutting off from the circulation its nutritious supply ; thus tending to maintain the wished-for depression of system. During de- cline of the inflammatory process, they may be still of use—if not contra- indicated by general debility—by favouring absorption in general, and consequently hastening the disappearance of redundant product. They are especially of service in affections of the head; having a marked derivant effect on the brain, as well as on the upper parts of the body in general. The pallor of the countenance which follows pur- gation is familiar to all; as also the lightness and giddiness of the head which are apt to ensue. On the other hand, there are cases in which purgatives cannot but prove injurioas; as in compound and comminuted fractures, where total absence of motion is by far the most important part of the treatment; in inflammatory affections of the bowels, abdo- minal cavity, or bladder—when, by determining blood to the affected part or its neighourhood, as well as by directly or indirectly stimulating its function, they are more calculated to cause aggravation than decline of the disease; and in injirries of the spine, when from the first there is intolerance of all spoliative remedies. Purgatives are given, at first, usually of a drastic and searching nature; afterwards simple, saline, and alterative ; their object being, first to evacuate thoroughly, as well as to promote copious secretion, especially from the liver; afterwards merely to keep up moderate exlialation from the mucous membrane. If need be, they may be assisted by enemata. Or these may sometimes occupy their place; when the stomach proves especially resentful of intrusion. In some cases Emetics are useful, at the outset; producing temporary