REMOVAL OF TUMOUES. 198 the growth first exposed ; and simple bisection of it may sometimes answer the same end. Also, when the knife has gone as deeply, or as near to important parts, as seems consistent with safety, the remainder of the tumour—if simple—may be treated by ligature ; as in the removal of central bronchocele, whose increase is interfering seriously with respira- tion. And if on separation of the ligature, a portion seem still to remain, this may be dealt with by caustic. In the case of hopeless tumours, which preclude all attempts at extirpation, by their extent, vascularity, and important connections— and which at the same time threaten death, while yet occult, by inter- ference with important functions—life may be prolonged and suffering alleviated, by division of external parts so as to relieve tension and permit freer outward growth. In large bronchocele, threatening asphyxia, for example, it may be expedient to divide the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscles, and perhaps also the cervical fascia, subintegumentally. Of late a comparatively bloodless method of removing tumours has been introduced by M. Chassaignac, by means of an instrument named the ecraseur. A loop of a fine steel chain, in short links, is cari'ied round the base of the tumoiu'—the body of this having, if need be, been previ- ously elevated by means of a hook or forceps, so as to admit of thorough in- clusion ; and by working the handle of the instrument at short intervals— a few seconds each—^the noose is tightened, so as not only to strangle the mass, but remove it absolutely. But little blood escapes, and the whole proceeding, though necessarily tedious, may be less formidable to some patients than the use of the knife ; the remaining wound, too, is likely to be of no great size. But it is a bruised wound, and therefore prone to inflam- matory accidents; and, as in the case of caustics, there must often be more or less uncertainty as to the exact amount of texture, normal and abnormal^ that is removed. In short, the process is less speedy and less certain than incision ; yet is a good substitute for this, in locahties where troublesome bleeding might otherwise be expected, and in the case of patients who might scarcely be brought to submit to any other mode of procedure. The operation is an extremely painful one, and requires the administration of chloroform.