FllACTURE OF THE PATELLA. 1314 internus, tend to displace the two halves of tlie hone in a lateral direction, to an extent equal to the thickness of the little finger (Vander Wiel). Whore, however, only a small poi'tion of the outer or inner side of the patella is broken off, it alone is displaced, the larger portion of the hone retaining its position. Bony union readily forms wliere there is no displacement. When, however, permanent separation exists, the luiion is effected by fibrous tissue alone. No complicated apparatus is neces- sary; it is sufficient to prevent motion, by a short sphnt under the ham, retained by bandaging; or displacement may be prevented by the application of lateral compresses retained by strips of adhesive plaster. Transverse fracture is common. It may be produced by falls upon the knee, or by violence acting directly upon the patella. When the patient sustains the fracture by falling upon the laiee, the articulation is not flexed at right angles as has commonly been stated; the limb has usually been straight, and in that position the patella has impinged upon some prominent surface, such as a stone or the edge or corner of a step. In such circumstances, too, the simple transverse fracture is rare ; a multiple or stellate fracture, by which the bone is broken into three or more principal fragments, being more common. The simple transverse fracture is, in point of fact, the result more frequently of muscular action than of direct injury—as when a person, in full exer- cise, endeavours suddenly to save himself from falling. In other words, when the knee is bent, and the quadriceps extensor mass of muscles acts violently, the patella is apt to be broken across, over the condyloid sur- face of the femur, just as a stick is broken over the knee (Sanson). The line of fracture is not always transverse; frequently it is more or less oblique, from above downwards, and from without inwards. When this line of fracture occupies the lower third of the bone, it is usually pro- duced by musctdar contraction when the knee is bent. When in the upper third, it follows from a like cause, when the joint is completely extended, Tlie displacement, when present, consists, in all cases, of a separation of the osseous fragments j and the degree varies considerably. The lower fragment remains in situ. The upper portion is retracted upwards on the thigh, by the extensor muscles—when the severance of fibrous as well as of osseous texture is complete ; and a wide hiatus is left between, especially when the knee is flexed, in which the condyloid surface of the femur may be plainly felt—and even seen. The hmb is powerless, more especially when descent in progression is attempted; the extensor muscles proving impotent. Treatment is usually simple ; position often being alone sufficient to effect reduction and retention. The limb is straightened and elevated, so as to relax the extensors on the thigh j a bandage is applied, fi"om the toes upwards, to prevent engorgement of the limb ; and, if co- aptation be not quite complete, the bandaging may be arranged in the form of the figure 8, at the knee, so as to force the fragments gently into apposition. The trunk is also elevated in a half-sitting posture. Accurate apposition and osseous reunion may be obtained; but the result is not always satisfactory ; the knee proving crank and limited in its movements, and recurrence of the fracture being by no means improbable, under the application of a comparatively slight cause. Short