DISLOCATION OF THE SHOULDEK. 932 being that one form of the dislocation forwards (intracoracoid) is really the most common; while " the dislocation into the axilla" may, with more propriety, be employed to designate all the forms of dislocation forwards. Malgaigne's nomenclature has the further advantage of being anatomically definite ; and this, by avoiding any possibility of mistake, renders it more accurate and easy of reference than any other. In the dislocation forwards, the head of the humerus has three ana- tomical positions. 1st, Suhcoracoid; 2d, Intracoracoid; Sd, Subclavi- cular (Malgaigne). To the last of these forms (subclavicular) the term " forwards" was alone applied by Sir A. Cooper; the others (suhcoracoid and intracoracoid) were by him undoubtedly included with the dislocation " downwards," or " into the axilla," to which, however, as described by him, their anatomical characters have no relation. In the dislocation doionioards, the head of the humerus has but one anatomical position— Subglenoid (Malgaigne). In the dislocation haclavards, the head of the bone has two positions—Subacromial and Subspinous. The relative frequency of these different forms is as follows:—ht, Intracoracoid, the common form; 2d, Subglenoid; 3d, Suhcoracoid, rare; 4^7^, Subclavicular, Subacromial, and Subspinous, all very rare. While then the intracoracoid and subglenoid forms of dislocation were included under the designation of dislocation downwards into the axilla, that form of displacement was naturally considered the most common. "We must now regard the intracoracoid dislocation, forwards, as certainly most frequent of all. In contemplating the mechanism of these displacements, it will simplify matters very much to take the three forms of dislocation forwards to- gether, and consider them simply as different degrees of the same injmy. When, then, the head of the humerus becomes displaced forwards, the capsule giving way in front beneath the tendon of the subscapularis muscle, that muscle is bulged forwards into the axilla by the head of the bone, the anatomical neck of which lies in contact with the axillary margin of the glenoid surface, constituting the subcoracoid dislocation of Malgaigne. If the supra and infra-spinati muscles or tendons remain untorn, and the greater tuberosity intact, the abduction of the ai-ra, with the elbow advanced and the inner condyle rotated forwards, is the posi- tion in which the arm will be placed. If, however, the arm has been forcibly adducted by the injury which has produced the dislocation, the head of the bone may occupy another position ; the lip of the glenoid surface now corresponding to a line in the axis of the neck of the humerus, lying posteriorly midway between the greater and lesser tuber- osity. The dislocation is now intracoracoid, the rounded head of the humerus lying to the inner side of the coracoid process. To permit this dislocation to form, the supra and infra-spinati muscles, or the greater tuberosity, must have sustained a solution of continuity. Here the rota- tion outwards, and abduction of the arm, are less marked than in the for- mer instance. In both of these dislocations, the elongation of the arm does not amount to more than half an inch ; the position of the head o the bone, the altered axis of the arm, the flattening of tlie upper delto^jj region, and the squared margin of the posterior acromial region, ^'^^"^ ^ ^ quite pathognomonic. When the dislocation becomes sid)clavicu(ar, i