CANCER OF TUE UTERUS. 1283 chloride of zinc lotion, of solutions of the pcrraanganato of potash and iron, or of the carbolate of lime, upon the recipients of the discharge, and as a lotion; used very gently internally, if there is little tendency to bleeding, A weak solution of the chloride of soda is also suitable for this purpose. In addition, all the general rules for the palliation of cancerous disease ai'e here applicable. Caulifloicer excrescence is also an unfrequent complaint. It consists in the projection of a malignant mass, which may be of various shapes, into the vagina. It springs from the cervix, and generally has a large base. It is covered by a number of small pedunculated bodies or granu- lations, which are often in bunches, and may give the general appearance of a head of cauliflower. It is of a bright red colour, and easily made to bleed. The general symptoms are those of ordinary cancer of the uterus, but less severe; the watery and bloody discharge is usually excessive in amount. On examination, a tumour is discovered, with the characters above stated; it is felt to be movable and polypoid ; and if the disease is in an early stage, the uterus also is not fixed. It is to be distinguished from the polypoid masses of encephaloid which some- times grow from the interior of the cervix, but along with which there is much diifused cancerous infiltration. If the excrescence be the sole discoverable malignant affection, and if there be every reason to think that it might be completely and favourably extirpated, the operation of excising the cervix should be at once performed. And during healing of the wound, care should be taken, by the use of caustics, to procure healthy cicatrization, and prevent, as long as msiy be, any tendency to repullulation of the growth. In numerous cases the oj)eration has been successful in procuring complete relief, and apparent cure—at least for a very considerable time. During the course of the disease, cold and astringent lotions are sometimes of service in checking the amount of discharge. Cancer of the Uterus occurs at all ages; but increases in frequency from the period of puberty till the end of menstrual life. It presents itself most frequently in the form of diffuse scirrhous formation, and more rarely encephaloid. The scirrhous formation generally commences in the neck, and spreads from thence; the encephaloid more frequently attacks other parts of the organ first, and sometimes forms projecting and polypoid masses in the vagina, or on the cervix and body of the uterus; it is softer to the touch, and probably gives rise to bleedings at an earlier period. "With encephaloid, too, there is more enlargement and hypertrophy of the non- cancerous parts of the organ, than with scirrhus. It sometimes but rarely happens that the vesico-vaginal or recto-vaginal septa are first affected with malignant product—the disease spreading from thence to the cervix uteri. At the outset, there is frequently much ill-defined derangement of the general health, which proves but little amenable to treatment, and often distracts the attention of patient and practitioner from the real seat of disease. And even when the malady has made some progress, but is still in an early stage, the distance of the severest pains from the womb, their lancinating and neuralgic character, and the small quantity,