92 OPENING BY CAUSTIC. Should the character of the granulations indicate debility, the application is to be medicated; variously, according to circumstances, as will be afterwards explained. Eeaccessions of the iuilammatory process may take place; these are to be carefully guarded against, and, when they occur, combated by the usual means. When the site of abscess is deep, care must also be taken that the superficial portion do not close prema- turely ; by occasionally interposing a slip of lint, or other dressing, so that the contraction may proceed uniformly, from the bottom upwards. Should the part become jjale and flabby, with secretion of tliin pus, and tendency of this to accumulate and remain in the cavity, general support of the part by bandaging is advisable. At the same time, the system shoidd be looked to; and will probably be found to require support likewise. In certain exceptional cases, caiistic is preferred to the knife. In a small chronic abscess, in which opening has been delayed, the integu- ments are attenuated to a considerable extent at the most superficial point. On discharge of the matter, they have not power sufficient to recover cohesion with the parts beneath; and perish sooner or later, either by ulceration or by sloughing. The use of caustic under .such circumstances not only opens the abscess, but, by at once destroying the feeble and thinned integument, expedites the healing process. Or, in addition to such a state of matters, obstinate glandular enlargement may exist; abscess having formed in the areolar tissue around it. Were evacuation to be performed by incision, this gland would con- tinue to project centrally from the wound, and thereby delay, or per- haps altogether prevent, cicatrization ; besides, when the pus contained within the gland is known to contain a specific poison, it is an object to get rid of that pus, perhaps also neutraliziag its effects by the action of the caustic, and so removing a serious obstacle to healing. Let the caustic which effects the integumental opening be thrust into the gland in one or more places, and the result is a suppuration wliich is innocuous. Also, if a patient decidedly object to the knife's use, from timidity or prejudice, and unwisely shun one pain to incur a greater, caustic may be employed. The best form is the potassa fasa, pressed firmly on the part till the abscess is entered; moved laterally, also, if need be, to destroy integument; or pushed deeply, to break up glandular enlargement. Oil or viaegar is then apphed, to neutrahze the redundant alkali; so saving the surrounding parts; and the whole is covered with a poultice. Chronic Abscess—Sthenic. Tire formation of chronic abscess is a comparatively slow process, in all respects; most liable to occur in those of feeble constitution; and produced by inflammatory disease which is either chronic, or subacute and transient. The attendant symptoms—redness, pain, swelling, tension, heat—are comparatively trifling; some of them may be altogether absent; and the progress, whether superficially or in any other direction, is slow. Indeed it is probable that in the truly chronic abscess, enlargement of the sac is not effected or attended by ulceration, but merely by displacement of surrounding parts ; unless, indeed, acute accession siipervene. There