AFFECTIONS OF MUCOUS MEMBEANE. 1178 wliicli they occur. Thus the roseolar aud erythematous eruptions on the skhi, are accompanied by tlie erythematous or congestive affections of mucous surfaces ; the papular of the skin, with the papular excoriations of mucous membranes ; the scaly affections of the cutaneous, with the greyish elevated pellicle of the mucous surfaces ; the pustulo-crustaceous of the integument, with the " excavated ulcer" of the mucous surface of the throat, as described by Mr. Hunter. These eruptive affections of the mucous membrane are commonly described as affecting the throat; but, in reality, all mucous membranes may suffer more or less ; the conjunctival certainly less commonly than any other. The cause, in all probability, of the affections of the throat having been more frequently observed than those of the vagina or interior of the prepuce, is merely that this part is more susceptible of irritation than the others. Hot fluids, pungent ingesta, smoking, exposure to cold, and gastric disorder, all tending very markedly to determi.ne simple in- flammatory change to that part—we may reasonably presume that they have a similar influence upon these specific inflammatory affections. Forms of Syphilitic Affections of Mucous Membrane. 1. Erythematous, or Roseolar Sore Throat, is a very early and evan- escent symptom of the syphilitic infection. As it frequently appears before the analogous cutaneous eruption has become distinctly developed, it is very liable to be overlooked, or, at all events, to have its syphilitic nature not recognised. The redness is usually of a dark rosy tint, and may be attended with some slight oedema of the bucco-pharyngeal mucous membrane. The congested portion may be generally diffused, or circum- scribed in patches. This affection may also be recognised upon the surface of the glans penis, or on the interior of the prepuce. The redness may either disappear, and the membrane be restored to its normal con- dition, or it may be transformed into the third form of syphilitic affection of mucous tissue, viz., the condylomatous condition. 2. The Superficial Papular Erosion occurs more frequently upon the surface of the vagina and cervix-uteri than elsewhere. It may, however, appear upon the balano-preputial mucous membrane. In its early stage, it resembles eczema closely. The surface of the papule, about the size of a pin-head, is slightly raised above the general level of surrounding parts ; the epithelial layer then desquamates, leaving the summit of the papule of a brighter colour than the rest of the part. Unlike eczema, there is usually no itchiness, and no generally inflamed base on which the papules are set; while it usually accompanies the papular or early tubercular eruption upon the cutaneous surface. 3. The White, Patchy, or Condylomatous Affection of Mucous Mem- branes.—The ulcerous excoriations of Mr. Hunter; Sibbens (?). The Yaws ? This condition may appear either as a result of the pre-existence of either of the two previously described forms of affection of the mucous membrane, or without any previous manifestation upon the part. Its proper period for development is during the occurrence of squamous or early tubercular eruptions upon the general surface ; of which, in