1218 TREATMENT OF STRICTURE. toury, with the cutting edge turned forwards, from a point half an inch in front of the anus, directly upwards in the middle line to the tip of the prostate, it is passed into tlie membranous portion of the urethra ; and as the blade is withdrawn, the external wound is enlarged to the desired extent. After this, the stricture may bo passed by the stall' and divided at the same time ; a catheter being then introduced into the bladder from the perineal wound, and retained for some days ; and so soon as possible thereafter a bougie of medium size should be pa.ssed along the canal from the orifice to the bladder. On cicatrization being nearly completed, the size of the catheter or bougie is gradually increased ; and instrumentation is continued, in the ordinary way, until full dilatation shall have been attained. Tliis is the treatment of extreme cases— complicated with the crisis of retention ; as also of cases of lacerated urethra, recent or of old standing, when the instrument cannot be passed into the bladder by reason of non-correspondence of the torn extremities of the canal—or at a later period when the urine is all passed by fistulse in perineo, and the anterior portion of the canal at the injured part appears to have become occluded. To such only is it apphcable. And of the skilful surgeon it is comparatively seldom required in cases of stricture. Incision has been practised from within the canal, by the employ- ment of lancetted catheters. But these are dangerous weapons, very obviously, in the hands of the inexperienced ; and the most skilful must have difficulty in using them with safety, in the case of stricture posterior to the scrotum. There can be no certainty of the incision being made in the true direction ; profuse bleeding may ensue ; the parts around and beyond the walls of the canal may be injured ; and then infiltration of urine can hardly fail to follow. These instruments are intended to act upon two different principles ; the one class cutting from before back- wards ; the other from behind forwards. Some of the former class have a small guiding director, which is passed through the stricture before the lancet blade, contained in the thick portion of the instrument, is pushed onwards to divide the contraction ; others have the lancet pro- truded at hap-hazard, trocar-lilce, from the end of the canula. The former may reasonably be supposed to merit more confidence than the latter; as they may be employed in light resihent strictures ; and the section of the constriction by them certainly ensures that what is cut serves to increase the calibre of the canal. The latter class of instruments are usually so balky, that any stricture wliich will admit their passage can have no need of treatment by incision. After the stricture has been divided by any of these weapons, a fuU-sized catheter is passed, and retained till the risk of extravasation is past. After this, dilatation by the occasional use of the bougie must be attended to, as these methods of division of stricture have no advantage over the external incision in this respect. An external wound, no doubt, is avoided; but the operation is less certainly efiTected, less safe, and more complicated than the metliod of Mr. Syme. Orificial stricture may be congenital. In the adult it is usually tight, callous, unyielding, sometimes admitting the most delicate probe with difficulty, and usually the result of the cicatricial contraction of a