282 ABSCESS OF BONE. to the second stage of tliu stlienic iuflamniatory process. Tlie suppu- rated space is usually lined by a distinct pyogenic membrane; and the pus is thick and creamy. The whole process has been plainly clironic as well as sthenic—a combination not usually found in other cii-cum- stances. The texture around becomes affected by ostitis, of a minor grade still chronic; causing gradual enlargement, and ultimate consolidation, of the whole bone at that part. The limiting dense bone serves both a good and an injurious end. It is plainly analogous to the limiting ring in abscess of the soft parts; but is not alike salutary. For while it divides the surrounding parts from the purulent result of the inflammatory process, it also prevents, from its density of nature, anything hke accommodating expansion before the accumulating pus ; increasing greatly the pain and constitutional affection, delaying or altogether preventing the spontaneous evacuation of the abscess, and tending to acute exacerbation of the original disorder. Unless relief be afforded, a more formidable inflammatory process may invade the whole affected part; osteo-myelitis; suppurative, diffuse, destructive, with proportional aggravation of local and constitutional dis- order. If inflammatory accession remain aloof, however, the limited form may endure for many months ; slowly enlarging, perhaps, and becoming more and more densely surrounded by new bone. If situated close to a joint, there is risk of its progress causing puru- lent irruption into the cavity ; intense synovitis resulting—usually destructive. The symptoms of this affection are very marked. Great pain, con- stant, and rather on the increase than other-wise, is felt in one fixed spot, of limited extent. At that point the skin may be red, but not tense ; and only slightly swoln, if at all. Some increase of pain results from firm pressure ; but such increase is infinitely below what would accrue from direct compression of a part primarily inflamed. The superficial bone and the soft textures above have become involved in a minor grade of the inflammatory process ; and it is from compression of these that aggravation of the pain occurs. As usual, nocturnal exacerbation is pre- sent. A sensation of weight and thi'obbiiig, as well as of pain, is complained of in the centre of the bone ; and to that spot, on which he can at once lay his finger, the patient unhesitatingly attributes all his afiliction. No I'lg- los. ordinary antiplologistic treatment, however active, afibrds relief. Constitutional disturbance is more of the irritative than of the inflammatory type ; sleep is almost wholly denied ; and not unfrequeutly delirium occurs. By continuance, the system is gradually exhausted; the fever changes into hectic ; and this may i^rove so urgent as to demand amputation. More than one mutilation has been performed above the knee, wliich should have never happened ; seeing that perforation of the Fig. 108. Limited internal abscess in lower part of tibia. Section of bone. Prep, in Royal College of Surgeons' Museimi, Edinbiu-gh.