CAUSES OF MORTIFICATION. 135 Caitses of Mortification. The cause of mortification may be broadly stated to be, Avhatever is opposed to vital power. But it will be convenient to examine this state- ment more in detail; considering separately those causes of local deatli which most frequently come under the notice of the surgeon. 1. The inflanwmiory process we have already seen to be a very fre-' quent cause of mortification; by intensity of tlie process; by want of vital power—in part, system, or both—to control tlie process; or by a conjunction of both circumstances. The gangrene may be said to be invariably humid; for not only is there no dissipation of the normal fluids of the part, but an absolute and decided increase of them by in- flammatory product. 2. Mechanical injury may occasion local death, either directly or indii-ectly. The violence may have been so great, as at once to crush and disorganize the part; instantly depriving it of life. Or, less intense, Fig. 35. it may have but lowered vitality by partial disruption of texture ; at the same time acting as a powerful excitant of the inflammatory process, and so rendering the occurrence of gangrene by inflammatory change all but inevitable. Both forms are sufficiently common; and both, but especially the latter, are prone to spread rapidly, greatly endangering life by poisoning of the system. The mortification is acute and humid. 3. PressiLre, gently applied, occasions absorption; a higher grade induces the inflammatory process in its minor grades; a higher causes suppuration and ulceration ; and a higher still occasions death of the part. The last result may be either direct or indirect; that is, with or without the intervention of inflammatory change. Pressure being con- siderable and constant, with a low power in both part and system, death of the former may be immediate ; as may often be observed, in the forma- tion of bed-sores. Or, as was stated of mechanical injury in general, pressure may excite the inflammatory process and lessen vital power simultaneously ; so rendering the part an easy prey to the former. 4. Heat, in like manner, may be so intense as at once to char the part; rendering it instantly dense, black, and brittle ; as in the severest class of burns. Or it may only diminish power, and excite inflammatory accession ; as in the more common examples of this form of injury. Acids, and other chemical destructives, act in a similar way. Fig. 35. Gangrene after compound fracttire ; still spreading ; no line of demarcntion.