858 FOREiaN BODIES IN THE WINDPIPE. Bromhotomy. Under this general term are comprehended the surgical wounds of the throat—Laryngotomy and Tracheotomy; made in a vertical direc- tion ; artificially opening the windpipe, with some important remedial object in view. But before treating of these operations, it may be well to consider briefly the various circumstances which may demand their performance. Foreign Bodies in the Windpipe. Foreign bodies, held in the mouth, are apt to pass into the windpipe, during sudden inspiration—as in speaking, crjdng, or laughing. During inspiration, the glottis is opened wide, and a foreign substance, even of considerable size, may pass readily inwards, For expiration, however, a comparatively narrow opening of the rima suffices ; an aperture quite insufficient for the outward escape of the intruding substance ; and, in- deed, such escape is still further opposed by the effort to produce it, which, impinging the foreign substance on the tracheal aspect of the rima, stimulates that part to spasmodic contraction. The foreign substance may remain loose within the windpipe ; mox- ing from part to part, according to the circumstances of displacement. Or it may lodge at a particular site :—1. In the larynx ; becoming entangled in the ventricles ; or being of such form and size as to be im- pacted in the general cavity. 2. It may be similarly fixed across the trachea ; pins, portions of glass, and other sharp substances, for example, have been thus impacted. 3. In either bronchus. And the right being the more directly continuous with the trachea, in that the impaction is most likely to occur. 4. Or the body, of small size, may gravitate stiU lower, and take up a lodgment in one or other of the bronchise. 6. Or giving rise to irritation, it may gradually become enclosed in an abscess-sac, and thus be separated, except by an aperture of communica- tion, from the air passages. 6. Or it may be impacted in the very rima glottidis. Thus :—a man much intoxicated, becomes abnost insensible^ and is sick. The contents of the stomach are lazily evacuated upwards j and a portion of the ingesta may enter the rima, and remain there, causing suffocation. A piece of potato-skin has thus proved fatal. Or, again, large substances, held in the mouth, and forced downwards in sudden inspii-ation, may prove too bulky to pass through the rima, and become impacted there ; inevitably causing suffocation, unless instant rehef be obtained, either at the hand of Surgery, or by the patient's own expulsive efforts. And in such a case, unless the tightness of impaction be great, success is more likely to follow the instinctive throes, than in the case of smaller bodies within the larynx ; spasm of the glottis being mechanically prevented, and consequently proving no obstruction. The symptoms denoting the occurrence of such accidents are, in general, tolerably clear. The history of the case is generally distinct. A patient, with a foreign body in his mouth, during an access of immo- derate laughter, or during the act of ordinary deglutition, is all at once seized with a violent paroxysmal cough, recurring at intervals, and not preceded or accomptmied by any signs of constitutional inflammatory