195 GENEEAL OBSERVATIONS. nature of a swelling ; whether it is a solid tumour, tcnso, and very elastic ; or a cystic formation, partly solid and partly fluid; or a mere accunuilation of purulent or puriform matter. It were a great mistake to plan and commence extensive inci- sions, for what requii-ed only a trifling puncture. And in order to guard against such an accident, the tlirust of an ex- ploratory trocar- or needle may sometimes he expedient; an ordinary trocai', of small size ; or a rather large needle, grooved on one side, so as to permit free lateral escape of fluid. But such exploration is hy no means so light a matter as some would seem to consider it. It is not warrantable to plunge a trocar into any and every tumour, of whose nature there may be some doubt. If it be an abscess, no harm ensues; the puncture is immediately enlarged, for the pur- pose of due evacuation. If it prove to be a solid growth, there still may be no harm ; provided patient and surgeon are prepared at once, or at all events within a day or two, to pro- ceed to extirpation. But much injury will not fail to result, if, after puncture, the tumour be left to itself for some con- siderable time ; and, more especially, if absurd attempts be made, by stimulation, to effect its removal by absorption. There is no more sure exciting cause of a tumour's degenera- tion, than the thrust of an exploratory trocar. On a section being made of the mass, after tdtimate removal, the origin of the structural change may not unfrequently be seen in the instrument's track. While, therefore, exploration is expe- dient to guard against error of diagnosis which otherwise might occur, and which might lead to serious error in practice —its use ought to be limited to very doubtful cases, in which other means of diagnosis, patiently and skilfully used, have failed to satisfy; and not even in such cases should it be had recourse to, unless early operation, if not immediate, have been determined on, in the event of the swelling being proved to be an undoubted and undiscussible tumour. As a general rule, the line of incision should be parallel to that of the adjacent muscular fibre; for then the wound '.vill be more easy of coaptation, and consequently more cap- able of adliesion. But to this there are exceptions. When important blood-vessels or nerves are concerned, we cut in the line of their course ; and so run less risk of injuring them. In the forehead and face, we often cut almost transversely to the line of muscular fibre; finding it to be of more im- portance, as regards both subsequent deformity and imme- 'bate coaptation, to be in the line of habitual integu- mental folds—the result of muscular action. It will be afterwards seen that, in the case of deep exostosis, it is also ^^s- si. ^■xpedient to place the wound not altogether in a line with muscular fibre. Fig. 81. Exploratory trocar and cainila ; of .sufficient length to reach suspccto.l collections in the deep cavities.