72 CONGESTION. possible. In rheumatic inflammatory affections, ojjium, mercury, antimony, are often secondary to colchicmn, salines, and other special opponents of diathesis. For the chronic embers of an acute inflammatory attack counter-irritation is very suitable; and this, sometimes preceded by moderate local depletion, and always accompanied by complete rest of the part, is specially effectual in the cure of perverted function which has been chronic from the first—more especially in the case of the hard textures and their coverings. Again, in certain very acute affections of soft parts, we trust largely to the lancet and bistoury; as in phlegmonous erysipelas and inflammatory affections after injury. And so might examples of the efficacy of special antiphlogistics, in opposing special forms of disease, be multipKed greatly. Treatment of the Asthenic Inflammatory Process. Here we enter upon a very different task. There is no tolerance of the true antiphlogistics—more especially of blood-letting and mercury. The paramount fact in the disease is the tendency to depression and debility of the system, with depraved condition of the blood; and the paramount indication is to counteract this state of things. Diet is as nourishing and copious as is compatible with digestion; and stimulants, cautiously dosed, are often most necessary to spur the else flagging powers of life. The blood is bettered by iron, given freely—usually in the form of the tincture of the sesquichloride—acting beneficially on the system, on the tone of the vessels, and on the kidneys. And opiates are often ad- visable, to allay irritation and procure sleep. For the part sedatives and relaxants are not suitable; but active measures, with the use of the knife, often become necessary when the suppurative stage has been reached—as will be more fully explained by-and-by. CONGESTION. Congestion is of two forms, the Active and Passive. Active Congestion.—This is but a part of the general inflammatory- process. It may be a mere preliminary to the more advanced stage; or it may persist as the minor grade, constituting a disease of itself. Its Causes are identical with those of the general inflammatory pro- cess. Whatever these may be, it is directly due to modification in the nutrition of the textures of the part affected, by which an increased amount of blood is admitted to the part, while at the same time the cir- culation is rendered sluggish. The Symptoms are such as have been already ascribed to the inflammatory process, when slightly developed, and stopping short of the suppurative crisis. Kedness is considerable; heat, swelling, and pain are well marked, yet not intense; and there is little tension. More or less febrile disturbance may attend The Results also resemble those of the general inflammatory process. Eesolution perhaps most frequently occurs, in the way formerly described. Or advance is made, and the miaior process becomes merged in the