120 THE IRRITABLE SOKE. opium—half a grain night and morning—are of service, iji maintaining energy of tlie capillary circulation, more especially wlien the patient is advanced in years. After cicatrization, local support, by bandaging or an elastic stocking, is not to ho omitted; otherwise relapse is but too probable, A small circular aperture appears near the centre of the cicatrix, as if made by a pin's point; this rapidly enlarges; and the sore may assume tlie characters either again of tlie indolent, or of some other variety. 6. The Irritable Sm'e. This sore is almost invariably superficial; not penetrating more deeply than the true skin, which texture may indeed be said to be its peculiar site—a circumstance which may in part account for its great sensibility. The surface is unequal; deeper at some points than others. It is void of true granulation—though sometimes undulatuig on the surface, like a bramble-berry ; and either of an angiy, dark-red, fleshy hue, or covered with a greyish film of tenacious fibrinous product. Some- times this covering only partially invests the sur- face ; which then shcAvs both the red and grey appearances. The edges are thin, serrated, and everted ; sometimes studded with brightly florid points, as if of arterial blood. The surroimding skin is shghtly swohi, and also of a dull red colour; being in a state of passive congestion; or under- going an inflammatory process of a low grade. Discharge is thin, acrid, bloody; often mingled with sohd matter—either recently formed, or the result of disintegration in the primary textures. Pain is constant; always considerable, often excessive. The slightest interference with the acutely sensitive surface is followed by a feeling of intense burning, and by a copious flow of blood, usually of a dark grumous character ; as if the injury were resented, in- stead of being merely acknowledged, as in the healthy sore. Generally, an irritable state of system precedes and accompanies this state of the part; and even when no such predisposition exists, that morbid condition of system is, sooner or later, tolerably certain to occur. Treatment.—^Tliis is partly, and often mainly, constitutional. The predisposing, if not the exciting cause, is in many ciises found in the system; and must be opposed by the suitable remedies. With this view, the primse vise and general secretions will especially claim our attentive regard. Often an improvement, both immediate and marked, follows the administration of a smart mercurial jjru'ge. Local management consists in rest, elevation, and relaxation of tlie part; and such apphcations as are considered to be most advisable in cases of irritation. Of these, none are so generally useful as the nitrate of silver ; apjilied lightly to the raw surface ; but with some intensity to the margins, so as to produce a slightly escharotic eflFect there, and bring tliem into a form more suitable for the commencement of cicatrization ; and pencilled, still shghtly. Fig. 30. The irritable ulcer ; dark ; almost pn.s.slng into the phagedenic.