CHAPTER IV. ULCEES. These are breaclies of continuity effected by ulceration; and may occur in any texture, though in some more readily than in others. At present, we have only to do with those which alfect the surface; chiefly situated in the skin, or in the areolar tissue beneath, and seldom implicating the deeper parts. They are every-day occurrences in the practice of surgery; and as such are apt to be regarded lightly by the student, or perhaps even by the junior practitioner. Eut all should be made early to know how egregiously they err, in such an estimate of what in truth constitute one of the most important classes of disease with which the surgeon has to do. The very frequency of their occurrence renders it eminently necessary that our art should be well prepared with efficient remedies ; more especially when it is remembered, that these accidents are most Hliely to befall those whose limbs are of greatest value. The rich man, even when otherwise unhealthy, is comparatively exempt from ulcer of the limbs. He is well fed, so far at least bb bulk is concerned. His time is very much in his own hands ; and he can take care of him- self, if he will. But the poor labourer is too often ill-fed, ill-clothed, hard-worked; all day in the erect posture, often wet and weary, and liable to external injury in the exercise of his calling. It is in such members of the community, that by far the greater number of ulcers are found; and usually of a formidable kind. Should the disease threaten in the rich man, he takes council forthwith; the suitable remedies are employed—of wliich perhaps rest and position are the most important; and, in a few days probably, the part is cicatrized. But the poor man cannot afford to do so. His limb is ulcerated no doubt; but as yet it is not very painful, and he works on; it gets worse, but the erect posture is still praticable, and it is maintained; and often only after the sore has both inflamed and sloughed, rendering motion and the erect posture at length impossible, does the sturdy-hearted peasant abandon his labour, and apply for relief In proportion to the reluctance of his apphcation, is his anxiety for cure. His children depend upon his exertions for food; and if the period of treatment prove protracted, pinching poverty will too surely be their lot. Thus a heavy responsibility may be abuost daily thrown on the practising surgeon; which he must be fully prepared to meet, else his portion cannot well be one of either happiness or contentment. And as the right imderstanding of a disease is, at least in one sense, half its cure, we proceed to the consideration of this subject in detail There is no more serious error than that of exclusively treating disease by name, and in the abstract; instead of inquiring carefully into the nature of each individual sample, and bringing forward remedies appropriate to each sign or symptom, as they occur. And there is every