UMBILICAL HERNIA. 1037 be made directly upwards, Poupart's ligament might be divided—an unnecessary act, that texture being unconnected with the constriction ; imd, besides, the spermatic cord in the uiale, and the round ligament in tlxe female, would then be endangered. II' the obturator artery arise by a common trunk with the epigastric, it is likely, passing downwards to its destination, to encircle the neck of the sac within the pelvis. And were the bistoury, which divides the higher stricture, to be used rashly —without the guard of the finger, and with any part of its blade thrust over the brim of the pelvis—this vessel would doubtless run no slight risk of being wounded. But, with ordinary precaution—the forefinger preceding the knife, and merely the bulbous point of the latter passing within the pelvic brim—the vessel is safe, whatever be its distribution. To make assurance doubly sure, on this point, it has been proposed to use a knife Avholly blunt in the edge. This pressed upon the tight resisting fibres may dilate or tear them, while the elastic artery escapes all injury. In the extra-peritoneal operation, a smaller wound suffices than in the ordinary method. It is placed on the inside of the tumour, at its upper part J and by means of it we may have it in our power to reheve the stricture without any interference with the hernial sac. Should this fail, and there be reason to suspect that the stricture is in the sac itself, it is necessary to enlarge the wound, disclosing the parts more thoroughly ; and then we may attempt relief by scratching through the faulty external fibres, as in inguinal hernia. Tailing tliis, the sac is opened, and the operation completed in the usual way. The after-treat- ment is as for the inguinal operation. It is in strangulated femoral hernia that we are most liable to be puzzled, as to the exact nature of the tumour. But the safe general rule, as formerly stated, is to operate when in doubt. Umbilical Hernia. This is common in infants; and in women who have borne many children, it is not unfrequent. In the former it very readily occurs; the exertion of crying forcing the bowel or omentum outwards, through the yet imconsolidated umbilicus j forming a soft, impulsive tumour ; at first of small size, not larger than a button—commonly called " a start- ing of the navel." In women, unless congenital, it is seldom a true um- bilical hernia ; protrusion having taken place near, not through, the navel, in consequence of a yielding of the abdominal parietes there, probably during parturition. Strangulation is comparatively unfrequent. In the adult, the tumour may attain to an enormous size. In the child, treatment is both simple and effective. The exciting causes—especially crying—are averted, as much as possible. And com- pression is made by means of a flat pad—such as a piece of cork, or metal, covered with wadding or soft leather—which is made to occupy the sur- face from which the protrusion escapes, and is retained in its place by the child's belly-band, by strips of adhesive plaster, or by means of a belt of elastic material. This simple contrivance is more eflectual than any truss or belt—being much less likely to slip ; and it has the equally