380 BURSITIS—ACUTE AND CHRONIC. means—as rest, leeches, fomentation, aconite, antimony—with a view to restrain the inflammatory process. If successful, the serous fluid soon disappears by absorption ; as acute dropsy usually does, on subsidence of the affection by which it was produced. If it linger, shght discutients will be sufficient to complete its dispersion. When, however, resolution has not been effected, and suppuration has occurred, we need have no hesitation in treating the case as an ordinary acute abscess ; by free, early, and direct incision. Temporary aggravation may follow infliction of the wound; but this is met in the ordinary way; and, on its subsidence, healthy gramilation will, under suitable treatment, advance towards satisfactory cicatrization—the cavity becoming obliterated. When the bursa is in connection with, or in the close vicinity of an important articulation, our antiphlogistic efforts must be doubly energetic and anxious ; to avert, if possible, involvement of the more important part. And when suppuration has occurred in such a bursa, incision should invariably be both early and free. Glironic Bursitis, a very common result of moderate and habitual pressure, produces a slowly increasing swelling, dull, and almost pain- less ; without either superficial oedema, or redness of integument. The contents are usually thin and clear, sometimes mixed with blood in a diffused or coagulated form. Treatment consists chiefly in abstraction of the cause, and in the employment of discutients ; as blisters ; mercurial plaster, or equal j^arts of the gum and mercurial plasters ; iodine, in form of ointment or of strong solution ; gentle support, by bandaging. Such means prove suc- cessful, when patiently and duly employed, in the great majority of cases. Should they fail, then the treatment may be as for hydrocele ; drawing off the fluid by a trocar, and injecting a small quantity of the solution of iodine. After evacuation of the contents in the superficial bursse, the application of a blister will usually prove sufficient to excite the neces- sary stimulation. Sometimes the cyst of the bursa becomes thick, indurated, and otherwise altered in struc- ture. In such cases, resolution is not complete; more or less hardness and swelling continue, in spite of the most active and persevering dis- cutient treatment. Unless the symptoms prove unusually troublesome, however, severer reme- dies—as by excision—are scarcely warrantable. Sometimes not only is the cyst much thick- ened, the interior is also filled by a plastic for- mation, more or less completely organized. Such a state is obviously not amenable to discussion; and may be safely treated by excision. Sometimes the cyst slowly suppurates. The chronic abscess may per- haps be discussed; more probably, it reaches the surfoce and is dis- charged. Even free incision may not be followed by satisfactory closure ; Fig. 165. Enlarged bursa over the patella; the result of pressure. Housemaid's knee.