127 PECULIAEITIES OF ULCERS. Such being the treatment most suitable to this class of sores, it is very obvious how important it must be, in all cases, to diagnose accu- rately between Avhat is really of this nature, and mere simulation of it by accidental sloughing in the simply inflamed ulcer; the one requiring a painful escharotic, \vith the treatment suitable to constitutional irritation; the other, merely continuance of bland poulticing, with moderate anti- phlogistics. It need scarcely be added, that in no instance of the genuine form is blood-letting advisable. As already seen, local loss of blood sometimes occurs in the progress of the disease ; occasionally for good, but perhaps more frequently for evil. In all circumstances, it is certainly an event of hazard; with a leaning to the side of evil, sufficient to forbid its rash institution by the practitioner. Mercury, too, is not to be thought of. As a general rule in slough- ing and phagedjBnic sores, more especially when of venereal origin, mer- curial medicines are always to be withheld; as certain to prove more or less pernicious—in many cases disastrously so. They aggravate the disease ; and, indeed, the supervention of constitutional disorder attend- ant on mercurial exhibition is often the cause of comparatively healthy sores degenerating into the sloughing or phagedenic forms. Peculiarities of Ulcers. 1. Many sores on the lower extremities are accompanied, or rather caused by, a varicose condition of the veins ; and by some the " Varicose Ulcer" is entered into the general classification. But, in truth, this term does not express any individual kind; but rather may comprehend every variety of sore. For all, or almost all, may be attended by, and partly result from, a varicose condition of the veins. The irritable is very com- mon, under such circumstances ; so is the inflamed. The indolent and weak, especially the former, are said by some to be the most frequent types of the varicose ulcer ; but, according to my experience, neither are more common than the irritable. Occasionally, the scrofulous is found complicated with varix. We may have even the sloughing and phage- dsenic; and, in that case, profuse venous hemorrhage is to be expected and guarded against. Perhaps the least frequent form is the healthy sore; as can be easily understood. Treatment will necessarily vary according to the character of the sore, independently of the varicose complication ; poulticing and rest to the inflamed, stimulants to the weak, nitrate of silver to the irritable, straps to the indolent, etc. But, besides it is of course essential to deal with the obvious predisposing cause, the varix. If this be great and of long standing, and have induced oft-repeated ulceration of a troublesome and grievous nature, the radical cure ought certainly to be attempted ; in the way which will be explained, when speaking of the treatment of that disease. But as this requires confinement for some time, and is not alto- gether void of danger, in the shghter and more ordinary cases the prudent surgeon contents himself with palliative management. That is, rest and recumbency during the ulcerating and healing processes; and uniform support, from bandaging or elastic stocking, both then and subsequently.