413 SECONDARY IIEMOrvRHAGE, etc. Practically, it is important to observe, that in this form of hloeding the flow is, in the great majority of cases, from the distal side of the lifrature. There, doubtless, the vital powers of the tissue are more depressed than on the opposite aspect; for the immediate effect of tightening the ligature will plainly be, to interfere with both nervous and vascular supply in that part of the arterial tissue. On both sides, ulceration must ensue ; to detach the noose and included external coat. And on that side where power is least, the morbid process will be most rapid and extensive ; while surrounding plastic change is most defective. On the distal side, the coats are Hkely to ulcerate more rapidly and widely than on the cardiac ; and while on the latter aspect the tube is shut, at and beyond the line of ulceration, on the former it may be open and ready to bleed. 3. Or hemorrhage may be altogether independent of the ligature's separation ; occurring either before or after that event ; more frequently after. Abscess forms in the tissues around ; it enlarges, and includes the vessel; plastic change is interrupted; by pressure of the abscess ulceration is effected in the arterial coats, from without; and the per- vious canal is opened—it may be above or below the ligature, according to circumstances. Were the practice followed, as advocated by some, of cutting off both ends of the ligature after its application, and were the wound to adhere completely in its external part by adhesion—it is plain that tliis casualty would be rendered very probable. The noose would act as a foreign substance ; after, as well as during and before its separation from the living arterial issue. It would become the cause and centre of an acute abscess. That abscess, cooped up and confined by closure of the external wound, would by extension implicate the vessel more and more, and too probably at length effect an ulcerated aperture into a pervious portion. By this time the external wound has again opened; or it may have been but partially shut; and the hemorrhage is free. Secondary bleeding by ulceration is often preceded by marked febrile accession—a circumstance of no little interest to the practitioner, as fore- warning him of the coming danger ; sometimes enabling him to avert it altogether ; in all cases preparing him to meet the emergency. Secre- tion is arrested, the pnlse becomes full and tlirobbing ; the head is pained, the face flushed. The patient is restless, anxious and alarmed ; and complains of a tightness about the chest. Then comes the hemor- rhage. " "When unexcited he lies pale and exsanguine, yet at the same time excessively irritable and anxious ; but whilst under the influence of the febrile paroxysm, his face is flushed, his skin hot and dry, his pulse tight and bounding, but affording a peculiar sensation resembling a double beat; and it is during a period of such exacerbation that each successive hemorrhage occurs."* Such fever is seldom absent when hemorrhage has taken place, and continues by repetition. But the first occurrence is sometimes preceded by no febrile state whatever : the flow coming without any warning ; perhaps seeming to be induced by some movement of the patient, in changing posture, in coughing, in straining while defecating, etc. The blooding may spontaneously cease. More frequently, however— and sometimes even when active and suitable treatment has been eni- * Porter.