1031 RADICAL CURE. sucIj methods of effecting a radical cure enable them to do without a truss, or to retain with a truss a hernial protrusion which previously was Ibuud to be unrestrainable, a very great boon will certainly have been conferred upon such sufferers. In the <)2)eration for strangulation, on account of oblique inguinal hernia, a simple straight incision is made along tlie neck of the tumour; beginning a little above the external abdominal ring, and extending downwards on the swelling, as far as may be deemed necessary. The textures are cut through in the order previously enumerated. Very frequentl}^ Especially in recent cases, the division of the intercolumnar fibres between the pillars of the external abdominal ring at once relaxes the constriction, and admits of the return of the hernial protrusion without opening the sac, should the other circumstances of the case make this desii'able. Bej'-ond this part, the mouth of the infundibuliform fascia forms the most common site of constriction, either external to or within the sac; but sometimes it is found in the conjoined muscular fibres or tendon. And in some cases a double strangulation occurs ; one at the Fig. 313. external opening, the other deeper. In any of the deep-seated sites of stricture, the incision for its relief should be made directly upwards, in order to avoid the epigastric artery, which courses behind and to the inside of the neck of the sac, as it passes from its origin from the external ihac at the middle of Poupart's ligament, upwards and inwards, to enter the sheath of the rectus muscle. The spermatic cord is usually behind, and to the inner side, and out of harm's way; but sometimes it is split up and scattered over the neck of the hernia—and then caution is re- quired, to avoid the spermatic artery and vas deferens. In operating in cases of strangulation, upon the congenital form of hernia, no peculiai- teature is observed m the procedure ; on opening the sac, liowever, the Fig 313. Plan of inguinal hernia ; on tlie right side oblique ; on the left direct a, ihe hernial sac ; h, the epigastric artery.—After Tikdemann.