THE WEAK SORE. 112 plain indication of debility there; and it need not surprise us to find that sores so produced invariably tend towards the weak character. Also, whenever the breach of surface has been originally caused by injury which entails debiUty of the surrounding parts, that debility is certain soon to shew itself in the sore ; as after iDruise and burn. Treatment—Prevention being better than cure, it will be our object to prevent decline from the healthy condition, if circumstances place this Avithin our power. The granulations getting pale, tall, and changed both in form and number, we abandon the simple water-dressing, and have recourse to stimulants ; gentle at first, lest over-excitement be induced. The piece of lint, instead of being steeped in plain tepid water, is satu- rated with a solution of a stimulant nature, and reapplied in the ordinary way. Sulphate of zinc, nitrate of silver, sulphate of copper, creasote, chloruret of soda, are some of the excitants more commonly employed. Of these, that which enjoys most general favour, and perhaps with justice, is the sulphate of zinc—in the form of lotion. This may consist of twelve grains of the sulphate of zinc, with two drachms of the compound spirit of lavender, and half a drachm of the spirit of rosemary, mixed Avith six ounces of water; but, of course, the flavouiing ingredients may be varied in their proportions, to suit convenience or fancy. If the lotion smart much on its first application, it is to be diluted Avith tepid water; gradually diminishing the amount of this, in projDortion as increase of stimulus is required. It is well, however, that we have a number of such remedies at our disposaL For any one of them, used for a cousiderable period, loses its efi"ect; and it is better, under such circumstances, to shift from one kind of lotion to another, than to increase the strength of the one originally employed. At the same time, moderate bandaging is applied; by its mechanical support favouring venous return and a normal state of general circulation in the part; affording also the salutary stimulus of uniform gentle pressure ; and preventing the occurrence of passive con- gestion—a sure forerunner, if not an attendant on debility. The fulfilment of such indications, by bandaging, carefully employed, is also plainly applicable to the treatment of the first class of sore, when it has been long open, and threatens in consequence to pass into the weak state. A bandage, with medicated water-dressing, and due attention to the system, will in many cases succeed in maintaining the healing characters of the first class; thereby much abbreviating the process of healing. Malgaigne has proposed a new method of stimulating a weak sore. A piece of iron, such as a cautery, is heated to a white heat, and then held at a comfortable distance from the sore ; gradually approximating it, as the patient's sensations will bear. I have sometimes found this produce a rapid and satisfactory amendment. Ointments were at one time much in vogue in the treatment of ulcers; but are now almost entirely superseded by the water-dressing, simple or medicated, which possesses all the good qualities of the other, without any of the actual and possible disadvantages. Should the judicious use of the stimulant lotions fail to repress the ten- dency to exuberance or granulation, they are to be for a short time superseded by the compress of dry lint and sheet-lead; and when the level has been thus