EXCITING CAUSES OF THE INFLAMMATORY PROCESS. 21 supply of this to any part competent to assimilate it, and so facilitate the induction of inflammatory change. But it is probable that it does not act so often, or so much, in this manner as is generally imagined. There can be no doubt, however, that local plethora—that is, determi- nation of blood to a part—however induced, predisposes and that strongly to the inflammatory process; whose first movement, as we have seen, "after the nervous impression, is this very sanguineous determina- tion. Increased and sustained use of a part—as of the eye, kidney, livei-—^in the very act of heightening its functional activity, brings to it a determination {i.e., an increased supply) of blood j and thus doubly predisposes to inflammatory access. Tliis is also well seen in the ten- dency to inflammatory affections in and near the junction of the epiphysis and shaft of the long bones during the period of adolescence, and in the uterus and ovaries in females during menstruation. It may be further observed, that local plethora, with the disposition to inflammatory dis- order which it engenders, has an important relation to age. In infancy and childliood, the brain is pecuHarly liable to suffer; in adolescence, towards puberty, the pulmonary organs; in the adult, the abdomen. 3. Debility, general and local. This is by far the most prolific class of predisposing causes. Vitality—or " vital power"—resides inhe- rently in the cell elements of the tissues which compose the system, whereby morbid change resulting from the application of an exciting cause is either resisted successfully and averted, or, when commenced, is controlled and modified. The greater the impairment of this vital power, the more prone are part and system to the occurrence of disease. Inflammatory disease thus often predisposes indirectly to inflammatory disease. A part inflamed, we formerly saw, has its vital power impaired, and may never wholly recover in this respect; long it remains weak, and consequently predisposed to recurrence of the disease ; sure to be overcome by even a shght exciting cause, whose stimulus it could pre- viously have borne with impunity. Bad food, air, and clothing; intem- perance ; the presence in the blood of poison—as the syphilitic ; excessive and habitual exertion of mind or body j excessive and habitual evacuations; previous disease, and often the treatment necessary for its removal— are other familiar examples of causes of debility, and consequently of predispositions to inflammatory change. Predisposing causes may be combined. An eye, for instance, may have a determination of blood towards it, at the same time that its nutri- tive activity has been exalted by unwonted exercise of function; by a previous inflammatory attack, too, the part may be weak; and by con- finement, bad air or food, sustained mental exercise, or all together, the frame may be debihtated. A part thus unfortunately situated can scarcely avoid becoming seriously inflamed, under the influence of renewed excitement. II. Exciting Causes.—Those which directly induce the morbid pro- cess. The more prominent may be shortly mentioned in detail. 1. Ordinary Irritants; as acids, alkalis, acrid salts, alcohol, turpentine ; acting by direct stimulus, on the elementary structures, and on the nerves and blood-vessels of the part. 2. Wounds, and other mechanical injuries,