SYPIIILIZATION. 1198 the general health. The explanation of these facts is, however, a very different matter, and one of acknowledged difficulty. Those even who adopt syphilization as their only plan of treatment, are l)y no means at one upon this subject. Auzias Turenne and Sperino attribute its good effects to " the absorption of the virus, and the saturation of the system with the poison"—the immunity ultimately reached from further inocu- lation indicating that this condition of system is attained. This, how- ever, is a most novel and untenable doctrine, either in general or special pathology. In the first place, it is founded upon the assumed identity of the virus of the soft and indurated chancres, else what good can accrue from the repeated inoculation of the soft chancre, in the way of producing systemic saturation, if the soft chancre be only a local affection ? In the second place, what facts or analogies can serve to prove that a large dose of a poison will diminish the effects of a lesser ? The alleged identity of the virus of the soft and indurated chancre is a most gratuitous assumption, and one which all our experimental research leads us to disbelieve and contradict. By Professor Tage of Christiania the cure of the syphilitic symptoms by syphilization is attributed to a depuratory action effected by the sores produced by successive inoculations ; and this view of the subject seems to be borne out by the fact, that the introduction of a seton, repeated blistering of the surface of the chest (Cullerier), the inunction of croton oil into the surface, or the application of antimonial ointment or plaster, have been found equally efficacious in promoting a cure. To the use of such measures Boeck objects; but not because he adopts the saturation theory; this he very reasonably rejects, as, if true, leading to but one logical conclusion, viz.—that it should make the syphilitic diathesis worse instead of better. He objects because the period when the com- pletion of the desired effect has been attained is not indicated, as in the so-called syphilization process, by a condition of immunity being reached. To ourselves the effect of the inoculation, as well as that of the seton, or of the pyogenic counter-irritants, seems due to the concentration upon one part of the surface of a suppurating condition which relieves the tendency to a general eruption, and, by effecting at an early period a prolonged sup- purative crisis, hurries the diathesis over that stage of its development. The only peculiarity in regard to the process of syphilization which remains as yet unexplained, is the cause of the immunity to further in- oculations which is attained after a time. From the fact that such im- munity is produced not generally, but first in one locality and then in another, it seems to be due merely to a diminution or loss of the reacting power of the cutaneous surface in response to stimulation. And from the fact that syphilization can be repeated, shoidd syphilitic relapse render it necessary, this immunity seems to be not only partial but temporary. Eecently a suspicion has been excited in the minds of some, that possibly syphilis requires no treatment; that, left to itself, the cuta- neous affection would disappear, and the results be even more favourable than the more systematic measures which have hitherto been regarded as essential in the disease. In taking a retrospective glance at the various methods of cure to