903 ONYCHIA. not be continuous, but sliould leave intact the folds of flexion of the phalangeal joints. In both of the more severe forms, extension to the palm, and even up the forearm along the course of the tendons, is by no means unfre- quent. The same pruiciples of treatment are to be fulfilled there as in the finger. But in incising, care must be taken to avoid, if possible-, wound of the palmar arch. As in most cases when the inflammatory process passes above the annular ligament, it follows the course of the deep flexor tendons, the incision to relieve tension should not only be carried through the fascia of the forearm, but by a little dissection that texture should be exposed, the superficial tendons held aside, and the suppurative collection reached on a deeper level. Sometimes the severe form of paronychia is limited to the distal joint of the finger. Then exfoliation of the corresponding phalanx is extremely probable. Eut, fortunately, the whole bone seldom comes away; a portion at the articulation remains; and, from this, regeneration may take place, with but little ultimate deformity. • Onychia, or Disease of the Matrix. This term denotes a diseased condition of the matrix of the nail; the result of a chronic inflammatory process, inducing a tedious and painful ulceration. The first indications are pain, swelling, and redness, around the root of the nail; and, on pressure being applied, an ichorous dis- charge oozes from beneath the cuticle at this part. The nail, situated upon a turgid finger or toe, separates more and more, and is ultimately detached; disclosing an angry nicer, of irregular margin, and smooth, glazed, tawny surface, surrounded by dusky redness, emitting a thin foetid discharge, and the seat of intense pain. Usually, an aborted reproduction of the nail protrudes from the proximal part of the sore. In cases of long standing the distal phalanx has its nutrition so modified, that its periosteal surface becomes spicular, closely resembling the appearance of a head of the Teasel. The indications of treatment are simple. To remove the stunted nail; to blister the whole circumference of the ungual phalanx, or by an escharotic—as the potassa fusa or nitric acid—to destroy the morbid texture of the matrix ; and, on separation of the slough, to make such appUcation to the sore as its varying state may seem to require. In lost all cases, however, local treatment is not alone sufiicient. The eneral health wiU be found greatly disordered. Alteratives and tonics necessary ; and, in some cases, when of syphilitic origin, a mild mer- 'al course is followed by the best efiects. Certain cases are very obstinate, and to such the term Onychia ligna has been applied; inappropriately, however, inasmuch as the ore, however unmanageable, possesses none of the characters of true alignancy. In such cases, the escharotic application must be made th unusual intensity, not only to the surface of the ulcerating matrix, ut fairly -within the cutaneous reflexion constituting the root or posterior art of the matrix ; or, under chloroform, the diseased parts may bo, in he first place, fairly exposed by means of the knife; and if, by this