529 FKACTURES. meiit when the ends of the broken bone have passed each otlier, or ride one over the other, is the action of those muscles which are implicated in the injury, and which tend to approximate the extremities of the broken bone. Sometimes, instead of riding, there is separation of the fragments from each other; as in transverse fracture of the patella. Most frequently, the fragments cross and overlap each other, with consequent shortening of the limb. Sometimes one fragment alone is displaced; as in fracture of the clavicle; the sternal portion remaining nearly in its proper place, while the lower passes downwards and forwards. In other cases, both suffer displacement; as in fracture of the humerus below its bicipital groove; the upper fragment passing in towards the chest; the lower being elevated, and displaced outwards, by the deltoid. One fragment usually is on a higher level than the other, seeming as if it had risen above its fellow; and hence we frequently speak of " the rising end of the bone." But this phrase, if not rightly understood, may lead to great practical error. The sternal end of the fractured clavicle seems to rise, but in truth is in its place ; while the lower fragment has fallen away. And in attempting readjustment in this fracture, we are not to repress the apparently " rising end;" but, leaving it alone, we bring up to its level the one which is truly displaced. On the other hand, the "rising end" is both real and apparent; as in fracture of the tibia, below its tubercle; and in fracture of the femur, below the trochanter minor. In each of these cases, the upper fragment is truly tilted forwards; and means for its reduction are undertaken "ivith propriety. By the displacement, neighbouring parts are hable to be compressed, torn, or other- wise injured ; and hence the most serious compKcations may ensue; unless such dis- placement be detected, understood, and speedily rectified. For example, the dis- placed fragments of a broken rib may punc- ture and irritate the pleura and lungs, ex- citing violent inflammatory access there. And displaced portions of a broken cranium may cause a like injury to the brain and its membranes, followed by results still more disastrous. Proneness to fracture varies with age. The bones of the old man are brittle, and give way under a degree of violence which would have little disturbed them in younger years. The bones of the child, on the contrary, are as Hkely to bend as to break; although, indeed, it is true that fracture takes place even in utero. Bending of the long bones, with partial {incomplete) fracture, from orce applied to their extremity, is by no means uncommon in the child ana adolescent. The bones of the fore-arm, for example, are not unfre- quently found more or less bent, from a fall saved on the hand. Con- f.tn?^' 8pi"<'. ^^aacted ; shewing an inevitable, formidable, and often '!*tai complication—injury to the spinal cord. 2 M Fig. 210.