1168 SYPHILITIC ERUPTIONS. rapidly developed. As they subside, the mottling of the skin loses its blight luie, becoming reddish, then yellow; sometimes almost violet in tint, and then giving rise to the " trout-back " appearance, by which term this form of eruption is recognised among soldiers (Hennen). The dis- coloration, in strict pathological language, now constitutes one form of macula. The usual concomitants of the syphilitic exanthems are scabs among the hair of the scalp, papular corona veneris, condylomata, scabs at the margins of the aloe nasi and at the commissures of the lips, enlargement of the cervical glands, rheumatic pains, and shedding of the hair. Syphilitic Papulce. Lichen Syphilitica. This consists of small miliary or lenticular elevations of the texture of the true skin, which may be either generally diffused over the surface, or restricted to one particular part, clustering in circles around a common centre. It may accompany or follow the exanthems, but is, compared to them, a rare form of eruption. When they first form, the papulae have usually a red rosy tint; but after desquamating, and for a time present- ing a glossy surface, they either disappear and leave behind a dark- coloured macula, to indicate their former site, or by coalescence or en- largement they sometimes become transformed into tubercles, or consti- tute an elevated surface with an irregular outline. This form of erup- tion may occur on any portion of the surface, and frequently spreads over the whole of the body, except the hairy scalp. The second month is its usual period for appearing; it accordingly frequently accompanies the exanthematous affection, and then usually appears on the forehead. It may be complicated with iritis. It is rarely evanescent; but, developing slowly, remains persistent for a long time. Although desquamation of the cuticle is common, suppuration or ulceration but rarely occurs. The affections with which it is liable to be confounded are—syphilitic tuber- cles, simple lichen, and acne. The tubercles do not belong to this early period, are of much larger size, involve the tissues more deeply, and tend to ulcerate. The ordinary lichen is always attended with febrile excitement, a violent prickly itching heat, and gastric derangement; and is very evanescent. Acne indurata, again, is recognised by its site, aaid by the absence of the general signs of the syphilitic infection. Squamous Eruptions. Pityriasis, Psoriasis, Lepra. By some the scaly eruptions are regarded as mere desquamative changes following upon an erythematous, papular, vesicular, or tubercular affection. Such changes may, no doubt, be frequently observed, but do not constitute mere terminations, but true transformations, of one form of eruption into another. Pityriasis is the form of scaly eruption which occurs most frequently upon the scalp, or other parts of the surface covered with hair. The patches are small, rounded, of a dusky red colour, and covered, particu- larly at the margin, with thin furfuraceous scales of epidermal tissue. These collect in large quantities, become detached in brushing or comb- ing the hair, and fall as dandruff.