1197 SYPI-IILIZATION. fii-st inoculated spots should be covered with a strip of adhesive plaster, until the pustules form, and the second inoculation is required. After this, either water-dressing or oxide of zinc ointment should be employed to prevent the formation of crusts, and to diminish the degree of irritation Avhich is otherwise sure to be produced. The effects, when regularly conducted, are so mild, that the process may be employed in children of tender age in the treatment of hereditary syphilis. While this syphilization-treatuient is continued, the diet is nourishing and generous; but no alcoholic stimulants or tobacco are allowed. The effects of the process are noticeable in the gradual disappearance of the existing eruption without any other manifesting itself, in the amendment of health and strength remarked by the patients, and in the improvement of the complexion and increase in weight which are observed to occur. AYhen the patient has previously been treated by means of mercurials, the inoculation has sometimes been found to fail until a preliminary course of iodide of potassium has been employed; and in these cases, too, the period required for the treatment is usually longer, and the risk of relapse greater. The average time which this process occupies is from five or six, to seven or eight months j and after this, should any relapse of the constitutional symptoms occur, repetition of the inoculation should at once be commenced. With reference to the selection of matter for the commencement of the process of syphihzation, Professor Boeck states that at first it was ob- tained from a soft chancre, and therefore admitted of inoculation being practised through a long series of generations, thus occupying a long period before the condition of immunity was obtained. Subsequently, however, Dr. Boeck has employed matter obtained from an indurated (?) chancre, which admits of inoculation through a much smaller number of generations. By its use he states that he has found the process rendered very much shorter; the symptoms disappearing much more rapidly, and the condition of immunity being reached at a much earlier period.* As to the satisfactory results which, according to Dr. Boeck's state- ment, issue from this method of treatment, we take no objection ; having, in fact, seen the salutary effects, described by Professor Boeck, to accrue from its employment, when no other curative agency interfered with the accuracy of the experiment; and when the symptoms—the in- durated chancre, the inguinal enlargement, the early constitutional changes, and the eruption upon the skin—were of so well marked a character as to make indubitable the effects of treatment in removing the existing symptoms, preventing the occurrence of others, and improving * As the result of the experiments upon syphilization made by Dr. Boeck, he con- clud&s—"The soft chancre and the indurated are the product of the same viins ; these two forms being due to the varying intensity in the vii-us. The soft chancre is the product of a more energetic virus, which, in vii-tue of its intensity, developes such a degree of inflammatory irritation in the parts around the sore, as to prevent the occun-ence of absorption. The indiu-ated chancre is the product of a virus less intense, which is not accompanied by a sufficient degree of the inflammatory process to prevent absorption. When the matter is very intense, the characteristic soft chancre is obtained; if it is less intense, the indurated chancre results; a pus of in- termediate intensity produces the intermediate forms of chancre."