10C8 Fig. 324. Crystals of the Ainmoniaco-magnesian pliosphate.—From Donn?. PIIOSPIIURIA. Colchicum, too, may be found useful. It is well to remember that, in treatment, the oxalic often changes into the uric diathesis ; indeed it is probable that these two morbid states readily jmss into each other—it costing the urea, as it were, but little effort to change into either the uric or the oxalic acids. When, under treatment, the uric dejjosit is observed to succeed the oxalic, the use of the acids must be abstained from, at least for a time. Tlie Phospliatio Dejwsit.—Normal urine contains a considerable pro- portion of phosphoric acid, the greater part of which is in combination with alkaline bases, and forms salts which are highly soluble. The phospates of lime and magnesia exist also in small but very variable quantity, and are held in solution, probably by the acid of the urine, along with some of its saline constituents. These earthy phosphates are in greatest quantity after a meal, in healthy persons ; and in various diseases, especially those attended with emaciation, appear to increase in Fig. 324. amount. They are precipitated, and form a slight cloudiness in the urine, on the addition of any caustic alkali or alkaline carbonate ; and when healthy urine passes into the state of decomposition, the earthy phosphates are also thrown down, owing to the evolution of carbonate of ammonia from decomposing urea. The precipitate may be either amor- phous or crystalline. The former generally consists of phosphate of lime ; the other of the triple phosphate of ammonia and magnesia. This last, in a nearly neutral urine, crystallizes in triangular prisms bevelled at one or both ends, exceedingly transparent and colourless, like the prisms of crystal used in optical experiments. These crystals are very fidable, and are consequently often observed irregularly splintered, or shivered into small fragments ; they are always perfectly colourless, and by this character are easily distinguished from uric acid. In a higldy alkaline urine (whether spontaneously alkaline or decomposed after emis- sion), the phosphate of ammonia and magnesia occurs under a variety of