697 IIUTIS. luiwover, wlieu a foreign body either is lodged in the iris, or lies in con- ict with it in the anterior or posterior chamber; or when a partially or aupletely dislocated lens compresses its textures against the cornea, or , veu rests against it, having fairly escaped into the anterior chamber; and if a wound exists in the cornea at the same time, through which the ujucous humour di-ains away, the evil is only exaggerated. Not only does he iris inflame, the pupil become occluded, the cornea hazy, the anterior 'lanibcr filled with pus, but the deeper structures are disorganized, and :iie rapid chemosis of the conjunctiva indicates the grave nature of the disease. All tliis, however, should have been anticipated and prevented \- the removal of the foreign body, if it is visible, or the extraction of the lens as speedily as possible, if it has been dislocated. If an open- ing exists, and is marginal, it should be extended by scissors—or by the ■econdary blunt-pointed cataract knife, if more room is needed—and then lie foreign body, secured by canula forceps, is extracted ; or it may be xed by means of a small spatula if it has subsided in the aqueous humour, d an incision made at a corresponding point to effect its removal In aking any new incision, care should be taken to avoid isolating unne- essarily any portion of the cornea between the wound and our section. the case of the dislocated lens, if entire, its extraction will be facili- ied by means of Graafe's spoon scoop. If much broken up, a linear in- ision and the introduction of a spoon scoop of smaller size, will afford iple space for the removal of the fragments. In all such cases, blood- etting, mercury, or other antiplilogistics, are worse than useless while a oreign body is present. After its removal, however, mercurials will rove of use in getting rid of any inflammatory products which may emain. Rheumatic and Qouty Iritis.—This may be either acute or cJironic, nd has always more or less of the characters of sclerotitis mixed up with It is usually, when acute, due to imprudent exposure to cold and amp. The vascular zone merges in general sclerotic congestion, and has equently a violet or purplish tint. The cornea is often more or less phcated at the same time. The changes in the iris are slightly marked, nd may easily be overlooked, till adhesion has occurred to the capsule f the lens. The vessels of the iris may, however, be recognised, running a radiating direction from the centre to the circumference. At an ly period, in most acute cases, the intolerance of light and copious chrymation are well marked, and the circum-orbital neuralgic pain is ery characteristic. In the chronic form, the risk of serious results is eiater than in the acute, from the almost total absence of any decided Tnptom, except impairment of vision, to attract attention to the real ature of the disease till disastrous changes have occurred. Si/pJnlitic and Scrofidojis Iritis may bo taken together, as struc- rally tliey very closely resemble each other; nay, in many cases, the -called scrofulous taint has had very just reason, from the aspect of the ild and the existence of pegged teeth, to be suspected as derived from syphilitic source, and to require the employment of remedies suited to s stage of advanced secondary or tertiary syphilis. In Syi^hilitic iritis, cognised to be such by the coexistence of some form of undoubted I'liiUtic eruption ou the skin, with an indolent mulLii)le chain of