104 PYMUIA. return, and not unlreqiiently at the same hours as in the first instance; the wound dries up, or the suppuration 'becomes greyish and foetid ; the surfaces of wounds assume a withered, flabby aspect; the bones become denuded, and ill-conditioned ulcers arise or extend. The patient seems as if exhausted by fatigue, and plunged into a kind of coma vigil, with occasional delirium, or into a deep stupor; the inspirations are made laboriously, and become more and more accelerated, so that thirty, forty, and fifty per minute are counted; the breath exhales a purulent odour ;* subcrepitating rales are heard in the chest, the air also not seeming to reach the minuter bronchial ramifications ; the skin becomes daily more earthy, yellowish, generally as if jaundiced ; articular pains, with swel- ling and intro-synovial effusion, manifest themselves successively in the various joints ; one or both of the calves may become the seat of-|- con- siderable swelling, attended with great suffering; and sometimes severe stitches in the side of the chest force cries from the patient. The tongue becomes dry; the lips and teeth are covered with a fuliginous paste; the belly is tender, the pulse tremulous and rapid, subsultus agitates the limbs, the eye looks dull, the cornea has lost its polish, the bladder is no longer emptied, partial paralyses may manifest themselves, the voice is lost, and the patient dies from the fourth to the eight day in a state of extreme emaciation, and after a prolonged struggle. These are the most common traits of purulent infection, but it is seldom that we find them all present." " Any wounded person having a suppu- ]'ating wound, in whom irregular shiverings, difficulty and frequency of respiration, a leaden or icteric colouring of the integuments, great pro- stration of strength, and sudden wasting, manifest themselves, is in our eyes, the subject of pyaemia. We would deliver the same opinion, if, ,in the absence of shiverings, the above-named symptoms were present, together with a drying of the wound, or a changed character in its dis- charges. The existence of an ascertained phlebitis allows of our pro- nouncing upon the invasion of pyaemia, the moment the local symptoms become complicated with shivering, prostration, yellow colouring of the integuments, and altered respiration. Arthritic pains and effusions, disorders of the nervous system, the typhoid appearance, induration, or abscess of the calves, etc., etc., add but additional degrees of certainty to our diagnosis."! After death, abscesses are found in the lungs, liver, spleen, brain, Iddneys, heart, pleura, joints, muscles, subcutaneous areolar tissue.ยง The lungs are by far the most frequent site; and there, in addition to suppuration, patches of less advanced inflammatory change may also be found. Of muscles, the sural mass, the deltoid, and the pectorals, are those most frequently involved. Wlierever situated, such abscesses are * This smell of the breath resembles that of hay, freshly mown, and of a sweet flavour. + In the original it is '* pen considerable ;" but, according to my experience, the " peu " should be an eiTor of the press. The swelling is often great. J British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review, October, 1849, pp. 354-56. ยง The following is M. Sedillot's statement of comparative frequency. In 100 cases of Pyemia, the lungs are aifected in 99 ; the liver and spleen, in 1 out of 12 ; the muscles, 1 in 15 ; the heart, 1 in 20.