CONDYLOMA. 11G2 cent. But the cliaracteristic bubo will here, too, preclude tlie careful observer from failing to recognise the syphilitic infection. By some, condylomata are supposed to be communicable—to consti- tute, in fact, a primary but peculiar form of syphilis ; by others, they are regarded as susceptible of communicating the regular indurated chancre to any healthy individual inoculated with the condylomatous secretion, or coming in contact with such a surface, as during coitus. In favour of the first of these views, the presence of symmetrical patches of condylo- mata, developed in parts naturally in constant contact, has been adduced as an argument. When these parts are on opposite halves of the surface, as in the case of the nates, the tendency to symmetrical development of eruptive affections, which owe their origin to a constitutional cause, should suffice in reply. When, however, they are upon contiguous sur- faces upon the same side of the body, as in the case of the scrotum and tbigh, the existence of the determining cause, viz., filth and moisture, acting most effectively upon the corresponding surfaces where the moist condylomatous patches already existing upon one side present these qualities in greatest perfection to the skin upon the other, symme- trical development of the eruption is only what should have been anti- cipated. Neither need it be matter of wonder that in females coming under treatment for syphilitic affections of the genitals and skin, the dis- ease of the vulva, on admission into the hospital, should be found to consist of nothing but condyloma without any trace of an indurated chancre. For while this is not by any means uniformly the case, the indurated chancre or its cicatrix being often easily detected, especially when it has existed elsewhere than upon the genital organs—the in- durated multiple bubo will always be found to exist, whether the chancre can be discovered or not. That it should not be detected in most of the cases, is due sometimes, it may be, to want of careful search; sometimes to looking for it on the vulva or genital organs only ; sometimes to ignorance of the frequent existence, especially in such a favourable locahty, of the transformation in situ of the indurated chancre into a condyloma, as has already been mentioned. In contradiction of the second of these views, viz., that the condyloma is capable of communicating syphilis by inoculation or by contact to a healthy individual, the liability to mistake as to the real source of the virus which has been employed should be borne in mind ; and the chance of the condyloma being an indurated chancre in process of transformation in situ, should be duly weighed ; while the possibility of the patient inoculated with the matter derived from the condyloma having the expe- riment vitiated, by the inoculated surface or the rest of his body being exposed to other sources of syphilitic contagion, should be carefully guarded against. At the same time it must be admitted that the facts adduced in favour of the inoculability of secondary lesions, and more particularly of condyloma, as competent to produce the indurated chancre, its accessory bubo, and a syphilitic systemic radiation, has within the last few years gained more ready belief than ever before. By some, the facts adduced in evidence are still explained away; by others tliey are too readily received without due allowance for inaccuracy or fallacy being attended to ; while others, whose experience in such affections has been