813 SACCULATED PHARYNX. constitutional; of an alterative, tonic, and antispasmodic cliai-acter. Locally, external counter-irritation of a slight grade, or opiate friction, or a belladonna plaster over the nape of the neclc, may be of service. Some- times even the passing of the probang will not convince the hysterical patient that the affection is merely nervous. Paralysis of the Pharyr\x and (Esophagus. This, occurring in the sequel of any disease, is usually of very un- favourable import; denoting affection of the brain, probably by effusion, which is Hkely to prove fatal. It may occur singly, however ; as after external injury of the head or neck; and then the prognosis may be somewhat more hopeful. The prominent symptom is simple dysphagia, which, although complete, is not attended by obstruction to the passage of instruments, or any other sign of stricture in the canaL Treatment is to be directed mainly to the head and neck, by counter-irritation and such internal remedies as may seem advisable ; while life is meanwhile sustained by supplying the patient with nutritious fluids, by means of a tube passed into the stomach. Galvanism and the use of strychnine are only to be employed when there is no indication of any advance in the process of cure. Sacculated Pharynx. Sometimes the lower part of the pharynx becomes dilated into a pouch, of greater or less size, situate immediately behind the oesophageal orifice. Food lodges there, sometimes for many hours, coming up again in a kind of rumination. Deglutition is difficult and imperfect ; often accompanied, especially when liquids are taken, with a churning noise. Frequently, too, there is a copious secretion of glairy mucus; sometimes accumulating spontaneously in the mouth, more commonly brought up by hawking. The affection plainly admits of no direct treatment; and care must be taken in using the probang—should that be thought neces- sary for an exact diagnosis, or employed in the belief that the case is one of tight stricture—lest it should enter the pouch, and be forced thence through the parietes. Tumours of the Pharynx and (Esophagus. Tumours occasionally, though rarely, form in the pharynx. They occasion dysphagia proportioned to their bulk. They may be simple, and of the polypous character ; and these may be removed by forceps, if "within reach. The double canula and ligature have been spoken of as means suited for their removal—obviously, however, quite inapplicable unless their root be within reach or sight; and then forceps would far more certainly and satisfactorily secure the same end. More commonly the tumour is medullary ; and then irremediable. Foreign Bodies in the Pharynx and (Esophagus. Articles of food, or any other substance which admits of being taken