61 HEAT AND MOISTURE. wise, the second or reactive effect of cold is inevitably produced. Pro- phylactically, it is its first or sedative effect which we desire to maintain. And when departing from this, its fitting time having elapsed, we should bewai-e of inducing the second effect, which, instead of opposing, favours the inflammatory onset. Wlien disease has fully subsided, and excess of product has greatly dis- appeared—the part still, however, remaining weak, lax, and swoln, with its blood-vessels in a congested condition—cold again may become service- able. But it is not applied with intensity; otherwise, vital power might be still further reduced. And it is accompanied by mechanical influ- ence ; in the form of douche; producing a general astringent effect on the part, stimulating absorption somewhat, and imparting tone to both blood-vessels and parenchyma. Cold thus is found to be of use at both extremes of the inflammatory process; just before its accession, and subsequently to thorough recession. But during its crescent course, it is usually unsuitable. To such general rules, however, we are free to admit that there are exceptions. When, for example, a texture of great deKcacy is under- going a minor and recent amount of the inflammatory process, and is threatened thereby with change of structure imperilling its function, we may feel called on to maintain the continuous application of cold, with a view to checking cell-proUferation at all hazards. Heat and Moisture, plainly less suitable than continuous cold during incubation, are ordinarily preferable during inflammatory progress. They are grateful to the feeUngs of the patient; and by soothing nervous ini- tability, allay the sensations of pain, heat, and tightness to some extent. They favour dilatation of the arteries, hasten on cell-proliferation, while at the same time they relax, and promote yielding of the parenchyma, to receive the inflammatory products accommodatingly. The vessels are reheved by the more extended congestion j and yet texture is not incom- moded ; there is no tension, and consequently no increase of throbbing and pain, with aggravation of the disorder. It is very obvious how thus heat and moisture tend to a favourable result during the crescent process ; but it is equally clear that, at a sub- sequent period, their use cannot be continued without disadvantage. For, the acute change over, and its results remaining, that which tends to maintain proliferation, as well as the dilated condition of the vessels, and relaxation of the surrounding parts, is opposed to resolution and positively mjurious. There is Uttle doubt that protracted inflammatory disease, with tedious and troublesome suppuration, is often attributable solely to mjudicious continuance of poultices and fomentation. The form of application may be either that of Epithem or Fomenta- tion. Ihe latter is more generally available. A piece of flannel, or sponge, wrung out of hot water, is applied as warm as can be conveni- ently borne, and replaced by a substitute so soon as the heat begins sensibly to abate. This is continued for half an hour, or more; and is repeated at longer or shorter intervals, as circumstances may seem to demand. It is well, sometimes, to medicate the fomentation. Chamomile flowers, with heads of poppy, for instance, may be put into a flannel bag ;