GLEET. 1134 of ui'ine by compression of the uretlira, and urinous abscess by opening internally. 7. Or prostatitis ensues; sometimes by contmuous extension of the inflammatory process along the membrane ; more frequently, per- haps, by metastasis. And in severe cases—either originally and innately so, or become urgent in consequence of either mal-practice, or imprudence on the part of the patient—abscess may form in the prostate ; usually superficial, as I'egards the urethra; temporarily causing retention of urine ; early emptying itself internally, and rendering urinous abscesa not improbable. 8. Or, the inflammatory process extends still further, and more untowardly—either by continuity, or by metastasis, and acute cystitis results; aggravating all the local symptoms, and by urgent disorder of the system bringing even life into peril. From the bladder—with or without abscess of that organ—inflammatory access has extended to the peritoneum, and proved fatal 9. Sub-acute rheumatism may supervene ; the joints of the limbs becoming painful and swoln, and the system suf- fering under inflammatory fever. The Icnee, ankle, and wrist joints are those most frequently and prominently involved. The supervention sometimes takes place during the acute stage, sometimes during the de- cline ; occasionally the rheumatic symptoms are coeval with recrudescence of the gonorrhoea. Or goifty symptoms may be excited, in those of the better ranks, and of advanced years. 10. Very often, in protracted cases, epididymitis is set up ; the inflammatory process seeming to creep along from the posterior part of the urethra to the vas deferens, and thence extending to the epididymis. The testis rarely becomes affected, the globus major being the site most commonly and decidedly affected. During the acute stage of such epididymitis, urethral discharge diminishes, and may wholly disappear; not necessarily proving a metastasis, but explicable quite on the principle of relief by counter-irritation. As the affection of the epididymis declines, discharge usually reappears. Orchitis may be caused at any period of the case, by a blow on the part, by imprudence in exercise, or from the unseasonable use of irritat- ing injections. The last named is, however, a rare cause of this compli- cation. The long delayed cure and commensurate extension of the inflanxmatory process to the prostatic part of the urethra may be said, in almost all cases, to be the determining cause. If spontaneous in its accession, it usually occurs in the chronic stage; usually about five or six weeks after the first appearance of discharge. Gonorrhoea is one of those affections wliich are capable of self-cure. The intensity of the symptoms gradually subsides ; the complications which may have occurred are recovered from; and the discharge becomes less copious, and somewhat restored to the mucous character. This state is termed a Gleet—embers of the previous burning. There is little or no pain, swelling, or redness ; thin discharge is the prominent symptom; with, perhaps, some trouble in micturition. In a patient who has suf- fered from previous attacks of urethritis, a greater or less degree of con- traction in the uretlira probably exists; but, in primary attacks, the gleet, unless of very long standing, need not be suspected of such com- plication. In any case it is not to be considered that the gonorrhea has finally ceased—becoming merged in an affection of a different name and kind ; for, from but a slight cause—as unusual exercise, imprudence in