100 DIFFUSE ABSCESS. judicious surgeon is often content to remain a passive though anxious spectator : he knows that the affair is much too delicate for the interfer- ence of his comparatively clumsy hand, and wisely does little more than await the far more dexterous working of Nature. The inexperienced and unskilful, on the contrary, is likely to deem it his duty to be then as well as at all other times busy; he plies sedatives, restoratives, tonics, stimulants; and, in consequence, the balance may be quickly turned— but not in favour of the patient. Wliat may be termed the general treatment of hectic, is conducted according to the principles formerly explained. The system is suc- coured by food and tonics ; mild opiates are given to procure sleep, and cabn restlessness and other nervous excitement; mineral acids to check profuse perspirations; astringents to check the tendency to diarrhoea; and stimulants, should sinking threaten to ensue. Never forgetting, in regard to the last mentioned class of remedies, that all depends on their mode of exhibition ; if in large doses, with long intervals between, the fatal issue is likely to be accelerated; it is from small doses only, oft repeated, and each carefully watched in its effects, that a fortunate event can be expected. Diffuse Abscess, or Purulent Infiltration—Asthenic. Abscess is said to be diffuse, when the suppuration is not surrounded and limited by plastic product; and when consequently the pus—in such circumstances of a thin, apparently unhealthy, and perhaps acrid nature —is always found irregularly infiltrated or diffused among the textures ; with a result most disastrous to the part, and oppressive to the system. Areolar tissue is broken up, disintegrated, killed : integument is under- mined, and subsequently sloughs; and the suppurated space is rapidly and greatly extended. For, the suppuration acts as a fresh exciting cause of an asthenic inflammatory process, similar to that from which itself sprung ; and so the process of suppuration and destruction may be prolonged almost indefinitely. This is bad enough, supposing the affection to be limited to the surface; but it is apt to extend in depth as well as superficially; and the deeply-seated result is all the more serious, in proportion to the greater importance of the parts implicated. The attendant constitutional symptoms are those of irritative fever, some- times typhoid. Treatment.—The local indications are—1. To arrest the inflammatory process, if possible, ere it has reached the suppurative crisis. This is difficult. For the disease is asthenic, and the progress is rapid essentially; else the surrounding and limiting circle of fibrin would not be deficient. The resolutive attempt is to be made, however, when circumstances per- mit, by antiphlogistics suitably employed. 2. When matter has formed (and too often it does form, in spite of our efforts to the contrary; and, more frequently still, it has formed before our attention is called to the part) our object is to evacuate what is already there, to arrest the inflam- matory process and thereby prevent further purulent formation, thus to save the surrounding parts from destruction, aud to grant an opportunity of escape to that portion of texture whicli may have already perished. All