243 ERYSIPELAS. tion. It is, as it were, an example of Nature's mode of relief, by counter- irritation and derivation. Or the patient is labouring under a low t vphoid fever ; and, during its progress, an erythema forms ; sometimes \vith relief—though not so marked as in the former example; sometimes soeming rather to embarrass the system still more, and increasing the tendency to prostration. Treatment varies, according as the erythema is reckoned the disease itself; or only a symptom of another disease, far more important. If the cause be local and external, with constitutional disorder slight and secondary, treatment is direct; as for the disease. The part is kept at , rest, and fomented ; or it is hghtly pencilled over, either with a solution 1 of iodine, or with the nitrate of' silver. The latter, either solid or in solution, is probably the preferable appHcation ; seeking only the first effect; blackening and non-vesicant. Antiphlogistic regimen is enjoined, a purge administered, and perhaps aconite or antimony, Eesolution is obtained. Ifj however, the cause be internal and constitutional, with the general symptoms formidable, and antecedent as well as concomitant, we seek no resolution. As small-pox and scarlatina have their eruptions, are relieved thereby, and become much aggravated by their repulsion; so fevers— simple, bilious, typhoid—sometimes have theirs; of an erythematous chai'acter. And the use of repellents is not more foolish in the one case than in the other. Our principal attention will be directed to the general disorder; contenting ourselves with palUation of that which is local. Occasional fomentation relieves the unpleasant feelings in the part; and, at the same time, rather encourages derivation than otherwise. Or the surface may simply be dusted with flour, starch, or oxide of zinc powder. When we are especially desirous that a spreading erythema shall be tm-ned aside from certain parts, the nitrate of silver, still used lightly, is of service j not applied to the erythematous part, but in its vicinity; not as a resolutive, but as a limiting agent. EEYSIPELAS. Erysipelas—of which disease Erythema may be considered as the lightest form—denotes the inflammatory process, resident in the super- ficial textures—skin, and subcutaneous areolar tissue; prone to spread, and partaking more or less of the asthenic type. We shall treat of three kinds—the Cutaneous, or Simple—the Cellulo-cutaneous, or Phlegmonous —and the Subcutaneous; with the following varieties—(Edematous, Bilious, Erratic, Periodic, and Hospital. Simple or Cutaneous Erysipelas. An inflammatory process pervades the entire true skin; and is more progressive than in erythema. The ordinary symptoms, therefore, of such change are more prominently developed. Eedness is greater ; often of a rosy hue ; and hence the vulgar name of the disease. SwelHng is