FiECAL FISTULA. 992 inflammatory process ensue, and the surrounding parts be implicated so as to establish either enteritis or peritonitis. And throughout the whole period of the instrument's use, the effects must be closely watched, lest at any time such accidents threaten to occur. By thus gradually divid- ing the septum—inducing ulceration of it by pressure, and regulating that pressure so that the inflammatory process it creates shall not go beyond ulceration in the part, nor extend thence to the neighbouring textures—by dilating and bringing forward the lower orifice, and by maintaining the external pressure at all times when the forceps and tent are not in use, we hope to restore the normal flow, and effect permanent closure of the aperture. But not only must this use of the forceps be cautiously conducted; it must also be warily begun. "Weeks or even months should elaj)se before it is employed. For, an early application is plainly in favour of the occurrence of the following risks : a fold of bowel interposed between the two orifices, on account of the septtmi not being yet fully developed, may be grasped by the instrument, and fatal enteritis may ensue; or the yet recent, tender, and imperfect adhesions of the bowel to the parietes may be broken up, the former may recede, fseculent extravasation then takes place, and life is soon ended miserably by peritonitis ; or, simply on account of the still unquiet parts having no tolerance of a newly-excited inflammatory process, immature use of the forceps may be speedily followed by enteritis; or the pressure may cause ulceration of an asthenic kind—not attended by plastic product around—the abdominal cavity may consequently become exposed, and fseculent extravasation into it may occur. The projecting septum, or eperon, may be repressed simply by the pressure of tents ; or the compressing forceps of Blandin, or the inge- nious though somewhat complicated instrument of Mr. Trant,* may be used instead of that of Dupuytren. Such pressm-e, causing replacement and absorption of the projecting obstacle, is obviously more safe than that which produces destructive ulceration. An artificial anus is sometimes established, designedly, by the suir geon ; when the natural anus is imperforate ; or when, from any cause, the rectum has become insuperably obstructed. These proceedings will be considered in connection with affections of the lower bowel Fcecal Fistula. When an artificial anus has contracted to a narrow sinus, with a papillary orifice through which intestinal contents occasionally escape, it is termed a Faecal Fistula. A similar state may also result from parietal abscess; whose cavity has opened, by ulceration, into a portion of adherent bowel, either before or after external evacuation. The opening of communication is usually small; the cavity of the abscess contracts; and the condition of fistula is soon established. The methods of treatment are simple. Accurate and firm pressure is applied to the part, so as to prevent fteculent escape, and favour con- * Dublin Med. Press, vol. xiii. p. 305 ; and Brit, and For. Med. Chir. 'Rex., Jan. 1847, p. 28.