496 HYDROPHOBIA. rience leads to the conclusion that, however administered, even in vei-v lai'ge doses, the remedies afford but very temporary alleviation. The hydrophobic symptoms have a close resemblance to those induced by over-doses of strychnia ; and aconite is reckoned the best antidote to this poison. To Aconite, Conium, Woorara, and Physostigma (Calal)ar bean) accordingly, the attention of the profession has lately been directed in connection with this disease. Dr. Sibson's experience of the use of woorara, in a case wliich occurred at St. Mary's Hospital, London, has not been of a kind to lead us to expect much from its re-employment Magendie observed, in experiments on animals, that nervous agency was remarkably subdued by injecting water into the veins, so as to induce ■ an artificial aqueous plethora ; and we have abeady seen that in hydro- phobia the general mass of blood is black and grumous, palpably defi- cient in serum. Injection of water into the veins, therefore, is feasible in theory; in practice, it has been to a certain extent successful. And further repetition is perhaps warrantable, with the hope of alleviation, at all events, if not of cure; the operation being, of course, carefully conducted. The hyperassthetic condition of the spinal cord has natu- \ rally been treated in various ways. Instant vesication over the upper ■! part of the spine, by ammonia, with subsequent endermic use of morphia or other sedatives, has in some instances afforded decided rehef; and may | be resorted to. A very powerful sedative of easy appUcation may be j employed; namely, ice, contained in the large intestine of an animal. ' apphed along the spine, and over the back of the head. The eSv require to be carefully watched, however, lest the sedative result provv excessive, and fatal prostration ensue; and, further to counteract tliis, support by nutrient enemata should be afforded at the same time; strnm lants also being employed, if required. Ice, too, may be kept in tlx mouth, as an additional sedative measure, and a paUiation of the ragi' tliirst; and ice, curiously enough, though closely connected in idea ■wit; water, is usually most grateful to the patient. The details of a case si treated in King's College, London, under Dr. Todd,* are such as to hoL out, in fiu'ther experience of the remedy, hope of palhation at all events From inhalation of chloroform a good deal was naturally expected ii this disease ; but, as yet, it too can be ranked only with the palliativr- It will always, however, ]3rove serviceable in enabhng the medi^ attendant to administer nutritious injections and medicines by means > the stomach pump, and has even in some cases admitted of the patiei while partially unconscious, drinking fluids without the induction i convulsions. During the administration of all remedies, it is obviously of muc importance to keep the patient carefully secluded from excitement b light, noise, or otherwise ; and to afford what nourishment is in oi j power. Lately it has been proposed to perform tracheotomy, in order avert asphyxia by spasmodic closure of the glottis ; but at the best, tli can only palliate. And it is to be remembered that death frequent takes place, not fi'om asphyxia, but during remission of the spasm, fw mere exhaustion, * Lancet, No. 960, p. 583.