FRAGILITAS OSSIUM. 314 This change may be regai-acd as constituting a distinct and special disease of itself (MoUities ossium); or only a.s a result of other diseases —and these various. It results from old standing chronic rheumatism, and from long confinement to bed, with inactivity of the extremities, from any cause. It is one of the many docays to whicli the frame is liable in consequence of the intemperate and long sustained use of alcohols ; and is specially apt to occur if the individual happen to be bedridden. It fre- quently complicates cancerous disease of the soft parts. It is no uncom- mon attendant on the cachexy which results—more especially in those of advanced life—from the sinister combination of mercurial and syphilitic influences. Scurvy, too, may cause it. And the soft and rickety bone, is very susceptible of fracture. The exciting cause of fracture need be but a slight one, A hasty or inadvertent step, turning in bed, rising from the seat or from the knees, a trij) on the carpet, or any sudden muscular exertion, may suffice. Treatment.—AU that can be done, in prophylaxis, is to guard against the occurrence of exciting causes; and, at the same time, we may en- deavour to prevent increase of the cachectic state, by such hygienic and therapeutic treatment of the system as circumstances may seem to require. When fracture has occurred, the jDart is to be arranged carefully, as in ordinary cases of that accident. It may be that re-union may not occur. And it is more than probable that, when it does take place, the process will prove very tedious, and the result imperfect. A second or third fracture may happen, during the treatment of the first (no less than 22 fractures occurred in a case of Tyrell's, and 31 in a case of Arnott's); the constitution may sufler and siiik, and perhaps so rapidly as not even to permit the more than doubtful chance of amputation. Yet it is plainly our duty to permit no anticipation of such untoward consequences to in- fluence the care and attention bestowed on our management of the case. Let our treatment be, if possible, more painstaking than in ordi- nary circumstances ; and it may be that our care is rewarded by a pros- perous conclusion. During the attempted cure much judgment is required, in both general and local management, more esjDecially in the aged. Locally, we wish by bandaging and splints to keep the fragments in close apj^osition, and absolutely immovable. Constitutionally, we are desirous of sup- porting the vis vitce; by generous food and other tonics, perhaps freely administered. But the following out of these indications, blindly and with rashness, is ahnost certain to induce chronic gangrene of the ex- tremities, analogous to one form of the gangrjena senilis. The bandage and splint must be only moderately tight; the diet must be nutritious, yet non-stimulant; the effects of both must be carefully Avatched; the water bed will, in many cases, be found signally useful; and shoidd gangrene appear, notwithstanding all our care, the fracture must for a time be comparatively disregarded, and our attention mainly directed to the mastery of the more serious malady, according to the principles formerly detailed. Ly some the internal administration of alum has been recommended, but without any such cogent theoretical reason, or good practical results, as to lead to its re-emi)loyment. When fracture has occurred in consequence of the cancerous diathesis,