1119 EETENTION OF UEINE. probably find no urine coming in obedience to his utmost efforts at ex- pulsion! The muscular fibre of the detrusor has been over-stretched, and, for the time, is paralyzed. The catheter cannot be used too soon ; and its introduclion is to be repeated from time to time, never allowing any considerable quantity of urine to collect; so that the normal dimen- sions of the bladder, and the wonted functions of its muscular coat, may be speedily restored. Shoukl the return of contractility be slow and imperfect, strychnine or uux vomica may be given, or galvanism may be employed. * In the case of spinal injury, the circumstances are very distressing; for, in addition to retention being ever liable to occur, there is phosphatic degeneration of the urine, with more or less change in the lining mem- brane of the bladder. The prominent symptoms of retention, however, are probably less urgent than in other cases ; there being usually dimi- nished sensation in the viscus, as well as impaired muscular power. Occasional rehef, too, may come, by partial escape of urine; for the abdominal parietes may act on the bladder when greatly distended and risen; taking on themselves, in some measure, the lost function of the detrusor. Also, as the bladder changes in its coats, the middle one, becoming hypertrophied, may acquire an increase of power, so as to effect a partial evacuation; and the muscular coat, which is not excited to con- traction so long as the mucous one is in a healthy condition, acquires a degree of abnormal contractility. In such cases, treatment is mainly spinal. The catheter is used from time to time; the usual means are taken to correct the depraved state of the uro-poietic system; and, dur- ing convalescence, recovery of power in the muscular coat may perhaps be promoted. In protracted fever, retention is not uncommon, often with incon- tinence. It is obviously of much importance to detect this condition, and by catheterism to prevent it; otherwise a most injurious influence will be exerted on the already oppressed system, by absorption of the mine confined within the bladder. In the aged, the detrusor, as other muscles, grows feeble; and by reason of this, retention may occur, Eelief is got by the catheter ; and something may be done in amending muscular energy—at least for a time. 10. Retention from Diseased Prostate; it may be, from either an acute: or a chronic enlargement of the gland. In gonorrhoea, the pros- tate is liable to the occurrence of acute swelling, with or without the formation of matter; and this may be to such an extent as to shut up the posterior part of the urethra. Treatment is by antiphlogistics ; withholding the catheter, if possible. If abscess have formed, it must be evacuated externally, by incision; as in the case of similar affection of the perineum. In chronic enlargement of the prostrate, peculiar to advanced years, rehef can be had only by the catheter. And an instru- ment must be employed of large curve, and at least two inches longer * Probably the most effectual way of applying this agent is to introduce a silver catheter into the bladder, and a female catheter into the rectam, with its point rest- ing on the recto-vesical parietes ; and to connect each of these catlioters with one of the poles of the electric machine.—Monthly Journal, Aug. 1850, p. 174.