485 TEEATMENT OF DISSECTION WOUNDS. state of tlie skin maintained ; above all, late hours, and every dissipation, should he most carefully avoided. Precautionary measures will of course he most attended to under cir- •cumstances of especial danger; as when the body is recent and deatli has proceeded from puerperal disease, particularly from affection of the serous membranes; and Avhen the dissector happens to be, from any cause, in indifferent health, and thereby predisposed to suffer. "When local symptoms have become established, the treatment is according to general principles. The pustule is opened, and covered by a poultice, or by warm water-dressing ; the part is diligently fomented ; and if augeioleucitis be threatened, the application of a warm and weak solution of the acetate of lead with opium will be found grateful. If erysipelas occur, or erythema prove troublesome, punctures by the lancet with the view of local depletion will be expedient. If erythema be but shght, hght application of the nitrate of silver will suffice. When abscess has formed, or when diffuse suppuration threatens, free incision cannot be too early practised at the affected parts; in the latter case, it is only by incisions, almost deserving the term heroic, that disaster can be averted. The wounds are treated by water-dressing ; and, at an early period, uniform and moderate support by bandaging should be afforded. 2. For the general symptoms.—In the first form—general derange- ment without local affection, and independent of wound—appKcation of the cause is plainly to be discontinued; that is, the dissecting room is to be left for a time, and . the free open air enjoyed, as much as cir- cumstances will permit. Also, the natural efforts towards extrusion of the deleterious matter are to be duly seconded ; by purging, diaphoretics, and diuretics ; but especially by the two first. There is a natural ten- dency to both diarrhoea and sweating ; and, by suitable means, these are to be regulated and maintained until elimination seem to have been complete. Afterwards, a tonic system of treatment is to be enjoined ; more especially generous diet, and exercise in the open country air. Town hfe, study, and dissection, need not be resumed, until conva- lescence is fully e'stabhshed. Usually, no long period of absence is re- quired. The constitutional symptoms of the second kind—those which attend on puncture, and the local accidents which result from it—are not so easily overcome. On their first accession, elimination is still to be attempted ; by pm-ging, full emesis, and diaphoresis; and these measures, at the same time, tend to moderate the febrile symptoms. During the short sthenic or inflammatory stage, gentle antiphlogistics are expedient; but general blood-letting, or other heroics, are seldom if ever warrantable. In the more urgent cases, calomel and opium, given so as to lay hold of the system, are sometimes beneficial. Wlien suppuration has been fairly estabhshed, and especially if it be of the diffuse character, support, iron, tonics, and stimuli, in their turn, are required ; as in other examples of extreme constitutional irritation. The more urgent cases are not unlikely to prove fatal. And those patients^ wlio escape with life, often retain but a shattered system ever alter. They arc liable to suppurations, ulcers, and glandular enlarge-