CONTUSED WOUNDS. 470 ami Avhen much bruising or tearing has occurred, there is depression of the nervous as well as of all other vital function, and consequently hut httlo sensation of pain. Were it to bo imagined tliat, hecauso a wound is neither painful nor inclined to bleed, it must be trivial, many and serious errors of diagnosis and prognosis would result. Adhesion is impossible; inflammatory advance to suppuration is certain. In the greater number of cases, the bruising and tearing are such as either to kill a portion of the implicated texture outright, or so fai" to diminish its vital power as to render its speedy demission of life inevitable. That dead part must be thrown off, according to the general law; and, however slight the slough may be, its detachment cannot be effected without suppuration and ulceration. In severe cases, there is a double risk comiected with the accession of gangrene. Not only will there be loss of substance by the immediate sloughing ; entaibng much suppuration, risk by hectic, and tedious cure. But, besides, the gan- grene may spread; either so as to invade and destroy a large extent of surface—enhancing the dangers just mentioned j or, involving the whole limb, it will tlirow the system into intense fever with prostration, and demand amputation—at the least. Treatment is twofold in its object; to limit the inflammatory accidents, and to favour granulation in the manner already described. The water-dressing is at first cool ; so as to arrest bleeding, and yet not increase the risk from sloughing by still farther depressing the vitality of the parts ; afterwards it is hot, and conducted in the usual way. Often a large, soft, simple poultice, frequently renewed, is found very soothing to the part, during the inflammatory stage. In severe cases, much judg- ment is required to regulate the antiphlogistic means ; and this is more especially necessary in regard to abstraction of blood, from the part and from the system. On the one hand, we miist be suflEiciently active, to check an untoward amount and intensity of the inflammatory process, and so to limit loss of substance and constitutional disorder from exten- sive sloughing. On the other hand, we must be careful not to lower the system too far; remembering that suj)puration, hectic, and it may he typhoid symptoms, are yet to come. Sutures are in no case neces- sary, and ought not to be applied ; sufiiciency of apposition is effected by replacement, attention to position, and the adhesive slips, if need be. During separation of the sloughs, hemorrhage may occur ; the process, therefore, has to be watched anxiously. Shoidd abscess form in the neighbourhood, or diffuse suppuration threaten, free incision should be practised early. It is to be remembered, however, that all wounds inflicted by a blunt instrument are not necessarily of this third class. In some ^s, they belong rather to the first; and require the same treatment. When an obtuse body, as a stick, stone, or bar of iron, is brought with smart violence in contact with integument placed over a resisting bone (aa on the cranium), an apparently incised wound is not unfrequently the result; the same in appearance and general cliaracter, as if inflicted leisiirely by a knife. No doubt, the parts must bo to a certain extent braised;.yet the bruise is not shewn at the time, and may never be evinced at all—healing taking place readily enough by tlic first inten-