83 ACUTE ABSCESS. induced, is liable to Lo followed by irritative fever; usually of a for- midable character, and with difficulty allayed. Or, on the other hand, the local residt may follow on the general. A patient labouring under a discharging woimd may become the subject of febrile accession, alto- gether independent of the previous affection; and, during persistence of such fever, the purulent as well as the other secretions will be either arrested or impau-ed. Whatever the cause of purulent suppression, there are few events that bring more serious and well-founded alarm to the practical sm-geon. As will be afterwards seen, it is often connected with the condition termed Pyajmia. The nsual com-se of an abscess is to enlarge, and to approach the sur- face. The purulent is a waste fluid—a destructive result of the inflam- matory process—containing only aplastic, or kakoplastic cell structures, in the sense of being incapable of advancing to higher organization—to all intents and purposes a foreign matter, and must be removed. We have just seen that it is little liable to absorption; the only other alternative of removal is by direct evacuation. In most cases, this should be the work of the surgeon. But Nature has a mode of her own, and is to a certain extent independent of his interference. In contact with acutely formed pus, the surrounding parts soften, and tend to disintegration, more or less ; which is aggravated by the pressure which the accumulat- ing fluid cannot fail to produce. Ordinarily, however, such destructive progress does not break through the limiting barrier of plastic matter, but continues to be surrounded by it, in more or less completeness. The work of destruction and the effort of repair abide in their original relation; but do not advance uniformly, and in all directions alike. The former tends to the surface; and unless thwarted by structural difficulties, reaches it by an aperture of discharge. This process is termed Pointing, and always occurs in the direction where there is least resistance to pressure. Its further explanation is difficult. And instead of attempting to assign any explicit reason for its " seeking the surface," it is probably better simply to announce such outward tendency of pus as a well known and admitted law. The pro- gress is various; sometimes rapid, sometimes protracted and tedious; depending on the intensity of the inflammatory process, on the rate of fluid accumulation, and also on the nature of the intervening parts. If these are of a fibrous structure, we know that they will long resist the advance of the abscess, and consequently retard the progress of the pent-up matter beneath — almost always injuriously. The ordinary areolar tissue, on the other hand, gives way readily and rapidly. Ulti- mately the skin alone resists. This becomes attenuated, stretched, and completely deprived of its support, for a certain sjDace—usually of no great extent; for the abscess enlarges in a conical form, its apex towards the surface. The stretched and undermined portion of skin may slough, and be quickly detached ; or becoming more and more attenuated, the scarf-skin in the centre of the pointing integument alone remains for a time entire, and at length peels off. The aperture formed in either of these ways admits of the pus being discharged. As the matter becomes superficial, its existence is indicated by what is termed Fluctuation. The fingers are applied over the part lightly;