925 FEACTUliE OF THE RADIUS. iVi^ni indirect violence, as by falls on tlie hand, or by twisting of the I'.irearm. And sometimes tho accident is the result of direct violence, or e\ eu of muscular action alone. The unnatural degree of pronation is \-ery marked and characteristic, the hand hanging awkwardly with the thumb directed doAvnwards. The upper fragment is displaced upwards and inwards, by the action of the biceps, and rotated into the position of complete supination when the seat of fracture lies between the insertion ^.t' the biceps and pronator radii teres; in all cases there is an apparent enlargement of the upper with a diminution of the lower half of tho lorearm. Tlie lower portion of the fractured bone is drawn towards the ulna, as well as completely pronated, by the action of the pronator quad- mtus. And the supinator radii longus assists powerfully, by tilting up the styloid process to which it is attached, in displacement towards the ulna. Sometimes the ends of both fragments are depressed towards the ulna; sometimes they incline either forwards or backwards, according to the direction of the violence at the seat of fracture. In treatment, the fVn-earm is flexed, and placed in the middle state between pronation and supination; the long s^jlints are applied on either aspect, extending lieyond the knuckles; the hand, bandaged separately to prevent conges- tion, is excluded from the retentive apparatus, and left pendent—so that 1 ly its weight it may counteract the displacing tendency of the long supi- nator, and separate the radius from the ulna at the point of fractui'e. Lonsdale suggests that in those cases where the fracture exists between the insertions of the biceps and pronator teres, the treatment should be conducted with the forearm placed in the position of complete supina- tion, so that the lower end of the radius may be brought into accurate relation with the supined upper fragment of the bone. The difficulty which interferes with this being satisfactorily carried out in practice, con- sists in the impossibility of maintaining the completely supined position (if the forearm, without the use of a rectangular wooden splint applied upon the anterior aspect of the arm and forearm. When the displace- ment, in cases of fracture in this situation, is well marked, the surgeon may lay his account with some deformity resulting from treatment, how- ever carefully this may be conducted. 3. At the Distal Extremity.—This, which is the common fracture of the bone, is produced by falls on the palm of the hand. The radius, being mainly concerned in the carpal articulation, sustains the shock of the fall, and the wrench of the anterior radio-carpal ligament. The line of fracture varies from half an inch to an inch above its articular surface, and is in most cases transverse, sometimes oblique from without inwards, and more rarely from before backwards and from below upwards. The upper fragment is not displaced, but retains the completely pronated position it occupied at the time of injury; causing an abnormal promi- nence on the palmar aspect, with a corresponding depression on the doi-sal. Tlie lower fragment is displaced backwards, and its articular surface rotated upwards and backwards, so as to cause a prominence continuous with the carpus on the posterior surface of the forearm. The hand, following the displacement of the lower fragment of tho ratlius backwards, leaves the styloid process of the ulna unusually pro- minent—as if dislocated inAvards and forwards. Tliis fracture has very