BUONCnOCELE. 848 borne in mind that, on deglutition being performed, a broncliocele will bo found to move upwards with the larynx, while an aneurism remains unafl'octed. The causes of the disease are scarcely yet evolved from obscurity. Where endemic, it seems certainly connected with habitual use of mi- Avholesome water as an article of food, and habitual exposure to a humid atmosphere; and this circumstance necessarily possesses an important bearing on the question of cure. There are cases, again, exposed to no tel- luric influence of an appreciable kind, where we have anajmia, palpitation, bronchocele, and exophthalmos combined. The source of this composite disease, quite as much as the mutual relation of the symptoms, has for many years been a subject of inquiry and discussion among physicians. By some the anasmia is considered as the startmg-point, by others the bronchocele, while by others a condition of the spinal nervous centres acting upon the sympathetic, and referred to some derangement of the uterine system, has been presumed to be at the foundation of this remark- able affection. Treatment—In reference to treatment, the examples of tliis disease may be conveniently divided into three classes; those which are merely deformities, unseemly, and somewhat troublesome by their bulk; those which bring life into peril, directly or indirectly, by interference with the brain and the air passages; and those which, by reason of their malig- nant character, as tumours, sooner or later are fatal. These last— fortunately rare—are generally hopeless throughout their entire course. But for the second class, the most determined remedial means may be with all propriety resorted to. For the first, heroics are not Avarrantable. And, fortunately, the majority of cases, in this country, demand only the milder form of treatment. Iodine has long been regarded as the most powerful remedy ; and justly. Internally, it is administered in the form of iodide of potassium—or combined, as with iron. Externally, it is applied in the form of solution, painted frequently on the SAvelling—oi ointment or liniment is rubbed in—moderate leeching having been pre- mised, in those cases in which continuance of nutritive excitement may seem to render such a measure expedient; our object being to arrest growth, as well as to discuss bulk abeady attained. At the same time, habitual exposure to a dry and otherwise salubrious atmosphere, witli habitual use of sound water—chalybeate if possible—are curative indi- cations by no means to be neglected. And such treatment will he carefully maintained, so as to prevent a tumour, originally of the fii-sl class, from becoming of the second, and seriously perilling life by inter- fering wdth both breathing and circulation. The antemic form of bronchocele, where we find the combination of anajmia, palpitation, bronchocele, and exophthalmos, may be found to ^ improve under the administration of belladonna, or henbane, with iron and valerian. In such cases, iodine, so far from proving of ser\dcc, will be found positively injurious. Central tumours, pressing on the windpipe, may be removed by ope- ration, when of no great size ; partly by excision, partly by deligation. By the scalpel the integuments and muscles are freely divided, and turned aside; the tumour is laterally separated from its connections, care hem:: I