799 SALIVARY CONCRETIONS. m-mipulated tbey possess the olusticity of fluid comlmied with the dou-hy characters of a Mty tumour, which condition they very closely resemble. If the cyst lies beneath the mucous membrane, the sac should bo opened towards the buccal cavity by a free incision, and the contents extruded by pressure ; and if the sac bulges more in the submaxillary legion, its removal should be undertaken by dissection from below the jaw, taldug care to avoid opening the cyst; for, should this occur, the complete extirpation of the tumour will be extremely difficult. Fatty tumours beneath the tongue simulate rauula so closely as to be with difficulty distinguished from it. The incision of the mucous membrane requisite for the treatment of either condition will solve the doubt; and by a suitable extension of the incisions in the floor of the mouth, the delicate and loose attachments will easily be separated so as to effect complete extirpation. Venous Ncevus sometimes occurs in this situation, and may readily be mistaken for ranula. K a puncture has been made into its structure, the copious hemorrhage which ensues should be arrested by carrying a double ligature through the textures in the floor of the mouth by means of a curved sewing-needle, so as to secure the wound within the circuit of the hgatures when tied separately. In one case of this kind the punc- ture was secured by including it in the grasp of a pair of artery forceps, and surrounding it with a ligature. Salivary Concretions. Calcareous concretions, composed of phosphate of lime agglutinated ■with a small quantity of animal matter, sometimes form in the extremities of the ducts, both of the parotid and of the submaxillary glands, but more frequently in connection with the latter ; they are usually oval in form, of a yellowish-white colour, and granulated surface, varying in size from that of a pin-head to that of a large filbert. When small they rarely occasion much inconvenience, but are hable, especially when they ob- struct the flow of saliva, to excite irritation both in and around the duct, attended with pain, swelling, thickening of the textures, and at times the formation of matter, both within and external to the canal. The accu- mulation of muco-purulent fluid in the submaxillary duct, obstructed by the calculus, may give rise to the formation of a ranula; in the parotid duct, to symptoms which may readily lead the patient and practitioner to sus- ect the existence of gum-boil, or abscess of the antrum ; or, in milder es, the uneasiness may be attributed to toothache, or facial rheumatism, r' neuralgia. By manipiilation, and use of the lohe introduced along the duct, the presence of he concretion can, in most cases, be very readily etected, Wlien of large size, they may become ly exposed, worldng their own way out by Fig. 290. Iceration. The operation for removal consists in making a suitable jDcision, through which the calculus is laid hold of by forceps and ex- racted. But when the foreign body is small in a large containing !ivity, it may retreat, and elude the attempt at seizure. In such a case, Fig. 290. Salivary calcuhis, of considerable size, removed by operation.