G72 OPHTHALMIA. It slowly increases; producing deformity by its prominence and bulk jt displacing and obstructing tlio puncta and lachrymal canals, \vheuce< troublesome laclirymation results ; preventing due closure of the eye-^ lids ; and ftivouring tlie occurrence of ophthalmia. This idiopathio affection is closely simulated by the warty outgrowth of weak granulal tions from the incision practised in the conjunctiva, in the operation fo< strabismus. In either affection, if discutients fail, excision is to be pi tised, by means of curved scissors, the growth being drawn outward by artery forceps. Sometimes the caruncle is the seat of tumour of a malignant, or a j least suspicious character. Then it usually presents the appearance cj epithelial cancer. In such a case only by early as well as free removfi can immunity from return be hoped for. Should the disease unforh^ nately retui-n after removal, and the ocular conjunctiva be implicat the globe as well as the diseased structure should be removed together.! IV. Affections op the Eyeball.* Ophthalmia. Ophthalmia is the general term, in which aU affections of the eyel of an inflammatory nature are cojj prehended ; and, according as i j suiDerficial or more deeply-se textures are involved, the opi almia is said to be External or | \ ternal. Fig. 246. / Affections of the Conjuvctiva The inflammatory process, i its grades, is very frequently fm established in the conjunctiva; the affection varies materially, only according to the intensitjlj the process itself, but also accor to the cause which induced it, and the state of the system in whic has occurred. Different varieties of the disease may in consequencil enumerated. Tlie most prominent of these are the Simple or Catart^ the Purulent, and the Phlyctenular. * In such a work as this, it is not to be expected that so wide a subject as the.. tions of the eyeball—so important, varied, and numerous—should be fully disc&j in all its details. The leading points only can be overtaken ; the student if refen-ed for further information to the many excellent monographs in tliis d(.j ment of Sm-gerj'. Fig. 246. Diagram showing the chai-acteristic vasculaiity of external aud inij ophthalmia, a, external; h, internal.—W. Jones.