258 BOIL. most probably burst under the ligature ; the tourniquet or other pressure was now applied, but in vain; for while it checked the bleeding, it ac- celerated the death of the limb, ■\vhich became frightfully swelled and horribly fetid. Incessant retchings soon came on, and with coma, in- voluntary stools and hiccup, closed the scene." * Or, instead of advancing to a fatal issue, recovery may take place. In this country, and at the present day, this is the general rule, under proper management; death, and even much local destruction, forraing the exception. Constitutional disorder gradually abates ; pain dimi- nishes ; and the inflammatory process producing gangrene is succeeded by that which is the herald of arrest. Slouglis separate ; and are neither renewed, nor supplanted by phagedtena. Discharge becomes less copious, thin, and fetid; more purulent, and laudable. Granulation and repair are established. But such amendment is not to be reposed in imphcitly. Anxious care is yet requisite ; for relapse is by no means mrfrequent. Treatment.—As in hospital erysipelas, prevention is our chief object; and is to be obtained by similar means. When the disease has occurred, the treatment is of that kind formerly recommended for sloughing phagedsena in general. Locally, escharotics, efficiently applied, and repeated if necessary, followed by poulticing or water-dressing, untO sloughs separate, and healthy granulations appear. Constitutionally, gentle yet effectual unloading of the primte vise ; calmatives ; anodynes; if need be, stimuli. Bleeding, or other powerful antiphlogistic remedies, are never warrantable; and mercury is to be avoided, as a poison. On arrest of the local disease, the constitutional disorder often voluntarily subsides. The chlorurets of lime or soda correct foetor. » FUEUNCULUS, OE BOIL. This is a limited inflammatory process, always of the sthenic type, affecting a small portion of skin, which may or may not be connected with a sebaceous or hair folHcle. The cutaneous texture becomes enor- mously thickened, and while some of the results of the rapid cell multi- plication die, and form a central core, this is accompanied and surrounded by laudable suppuration. It is not a mere pimple. For that is hut suppuration of the interior of an obstructed sebaceous follicle. Ifor is the term to be regarded as synonymous with carbimcle. For that consists structurally rather of a congeries of boils, is more extensive originally, liable to spread, and attended, both generally and locally by asthenic symptoms throughout; sometimes, nay frequently, bringing life iiit*^ serious peril. Whereas, the boil is not only sthenic in itself, but often rather indicative of a robust and plethoric system. At all events, the attendant constitutional disorder partakes, more or less, of the true in- flammatory type ; and requires to be treated accordingly. The affection is most frequent in the young ai-jd middle aged; and in those who, eating freely, are liable to stomachic and hepatic derange- ments. The most common site is where the skin is thickest, and per- haps most removed from ablution; on the back, shoulders, hips, back of * Henneu's Military Siu'gery, p. 220.