TREATMENT OF CHRONIC SYNOVITIS. 343 cartilages, and even the bones. In another point of view also, the affec- tion is important; Avhen we remember how much more difficult of satis- factory removal, are the results of chronic than of acute effusion. The prominent symptom, as already said, is the unequal, fluctuating swelling. There are also dull pain or uneasiness, some heat, and great limitation of motion ; the joint is more or less flexed, and the tendons of the flexor muscles gradually assume a rigid condition. The limb, by confinement, wastes; and its muscles become altered in structure as well as in bulk. "When the disease is extending to other tissues, and formidable though chronic change of structure is in progress, the swelling often loses its lax fluctuating character. The thinner portion of the synovial contents is probably being absorbed ; thickening of the synovial mem- brane is taking place. The swelling, consequently, becomes more solid and elastic, less fluctuating ; the joint is more painful, and more abridged in motion; and constitutional sympathy, before perhaps slight, now becomes considerable—'tending towards the hectic type. Chronic synovitis is seldom the result of external violence. More commonly, it follows exposure to cold; or it may be attributed by the patient to some slight twist or strain; and it most frequently occurs in those who have suffered by the venereal poison, by the mercurial, or by botL Eheumatism, too, is a fertile inducing cause. Treatment.—Moderate local depletion, by leeching, may sometimes be advisable at first; not so much on account of a remedial effect ex- pected from itself, but rather to pave the way for the use of counter- irritation, on which the main hope of cure has to i-est. The counter- irritants may be varied, according to circumstances ; blisters, in succession; croton oil embrocation ; tartar emetic ointment or solution; or an oint- ment of nitrate of silver, strong enough to produce a pustular effect by inunction—are some of the most common and suitable forms. "When the inflammatory process has fairly Ceased, and all is quiet, then attention may be mainly directed to discussion. With this view, suitable plasters may be applied; as the gum plaster, or the mercurial, or equal parts of both. Or pressure may be employed, either by simple bandaging, or by combination of this with plaster. The iodide of potassium may be used in the form of ointment, as well as given internally ; or a stron ^ solution of iodine, either aqueous or alcoholic, may be pencilled on the surface. But, still, let the effects of these remedies be carefully watched ; lest over-stimulation be induced. And throughout the whole treatment let the paramount indication be—rigid maintenance of absolute rest in the affected part, by splilits; at first lightly applied, so as merely to prevent motion; afterwards with tightness, in order by their pressure to as.sist in the favouring of absorption. In due time, by passive motion, cautiously increased, the joint's function is restored. Constitutional management is not to be disregarded. Invariably, wore or less disorder will be found in the system ; and rectification ot that IS essential to due advancement of the cure. If any peculiar cachexy exist, as is not unlikely, it must be met by the suitable remedies ; obstmate and liu-king venereal taint, by an alterative and cautious mer-