THE KECUERENT TUMOURS. 173 smaller cells are contained within a parent, attaclied by narrow pedmi- cles; often, as abeady stated, the cavity—or what was the cavity—is occupied by a thoroughly organized mass—the Cysto-sarcoma proliferum of some authors. Such cystic tumours are perhaps most common in connection with the mamma, testicle, and thyroid gland. They are of no certain shape, but approach more nearly and free;[uently to the globular than to any other form. The integuments are not implicated; yet usually shew more or less of discoloration, especially at the points where the cysts are placed. The feel is imequal; at the cysts there is fluctuation, more or less dis- tinct—the more distinct the larger the cyst and the more fluid the contents. Though primarily and essentially non-malignant, yet they are espe- cially Hable to degenerate ; perhaps in consequence of the independent secretive power which the cysts possess, and which may at any time take on a perverted and depraved character. Hence, there can be little doubt as to the propriety of early removal by operation. III. The Recurrent Tumours. A class of morbid formations, intermediate between the benign and malignant, and partaking of the characters of both, may be suitably intro- duced here. They have been appropriately termed Recurrent by Mr. Syme, on account of their prominent peculiarity in this respect. In all ordinary characters, they might be adjudged to the innocent class of tumours; but, in one particular, they closely resemble the malignant— proneness to reproduction after complete and even repeated removaL They ordinarily present the characters of fibro-cellular or fibrous tumours; and on that account were at first termed by Mr. Paget " Ee- current-fibroid." " But some have been cartilaginous, some glandular, some in the form of proUferous glandular cysts." In all yet observed, " their structures are imperfectly developed; resembling the embryonic or rudimental, rather than the perfect states of the several natural tissues"—(Paget). When handled they feel more soft and elastic than perfectly simple tumours of the same class ; they grow more rapidly too ; and, on each reproduction, the new tumour proves softer, as well as more quickly growing than its predecessor. Their likeness " to cancers in many of these points is evident. Put their unlikeness is as distinct. They rarely look Hke cancers to the naked eye, never to that assisted with the microscope; their homology with the natural structures, though in a rudimental and it may be deo-e- nerate^ state, is clear. They do not afi"ect the lymphatics ; their recur- rence is in loco ; and in the few cases in which, late in the disease, similar growths have occurred in the lungs, it may be suspected that the propa- gation was by direct carrying of germs with the blood from vessels into •which a tumour had grown. Moreover, after repeated recurrences, the patient commonly retains apparently good health, and shews none of that cachexia which would almost certainly exist in a patient who had sufl"ered repeated recurrences of cancer"—(Paget). Treatment can only be by excision ; and the peculiarity will consist in