AFFECTIONS OF THE TYMPANUM. 833 Acufc rnflammatory Affection of the Ti/mjjanim. This may bo produced by injury inflicted from without, as by lace- i-ation of the membrana tympani, in ill-directed efforts to remove foreign bocUes or polypi from the meatus, or by attempts to introduce the Eusta- chian catheter—or by the injection of stimulating lotions, either through the catheter or into the meatus, when perforation of the membrana tympani exists. More commonly, however, the inflammatory aflcction commences in the pharynx or posterior nares, constituting one form or other of acute cynanche, and extends along the Eustachian tube to the cavity of the tympanum. The most acute and destructive cases are those which come on after or in the progress of scarlatina. The symptoms at their commencement are those so constantly expe- rienced by every one who has suflPered from a smart attack of cynanche tonsillaris, or violent coryza, extending to the posterior nares, viz., a pain commencing in the throat, and shooting upwards and outwards towards one or other of the ears, attended with some dulness of hearing—im- proved temporarily, with a crackling sound, on blowing the nose. As the inflammatory process advances, the pain becomes greatly increased, acutely lancinating in its character, difl'used over the whole side of the head and neck, and accompanied by a sense of tlirobbing amounting almost to the feeling as though the head would burst; the attempt to swallow aggravates the pain, so that the patient cannot venture upon the effort; and the forcible manoeuvre to inflate the tympanum is both inef- fective and very painful. There is usually pain on pressure over the mastoid process, and above the tragus. On examining the meatus with the speculum, the canal is sometimes found tumid from sympathetic impli- cation. When, however, the symptoms have not run on so rapidly, and the canal is pervious, the membrana tympani is seen to be perfectly normal, except that its vessels are congested, and the ruddy glare of its turgid thickened mucous covering is visible through its outer layers; but as the products of the inflammatory process accumtdate withiu the tympanic cavity, even before bulging of the membrana occurs, this becomes manifestly thickened, and presents much the appearance of a cornea softened by advancing keratitis. In such circumstances the symp- toms usually indicate grave constitutional disturbance ; violent feverish excitement and restlessness occur, opiates scarcely lull the pain, and, in children, delirium, convulsions, and even death from coma, may ensue. More commonly, however, the inflanunatory process stops short of sup- puration, and the membrane is more or less completely restored to its normal state. Or, suppuration occurring, the abscess of the tympanic cavity is evacuated by the Eustachian tube, or by perforation of the mem- brana tympani, and escape of matter from the meatus. Disorganization the mucous membrane, necrosis of the ossicles, and even of a portion the osseous walls of the tympanic cavity and of the mastoid cells, with xtensive external abscess, have also been known to result. The suspicion these last cases, however, always is that the aflcction has been of nature of necrosis from the beginning, and not that the mucous mom- rane of the tympanum has not been its starting-point. Wlicn an ar has once suffered from such changes in its parts, permanent deafness 3 II