PTOSIS. 657 Lagoph tha Imos. Lagoplitlialmos, or ITaro-cye, means an inability to close the eyelids from diminution of their perpendicular diameter ; and the eye, being deprived of its natural protection, is exposed to the action of the air and other external irritants, which may cause an inflammatory affection of tlio conjunctiva, eventually terminating in opacity of the cornea. The disease affecting the lower lid often results from paralysis of the orbicu- laris muscle, caused by exposui-e to cold; more frequently it is caused by retraction or shortening of one or both lids, arising from cicatricial contraction follomng abscess, or caries of the orbital walls, or burns and other injuries. Sometimes it proceeds from cold, or other causes acting upon the facial nerve in its transit or distribution. The treatment varies according to the cause. When the affection arises from reflex paralysis, blisters, friction, electricity, and strychnine are appropriate ; when from retraction of the lid, subcutaneous division or excision of the cicatrix, where attached to the bone, may be of use ; or a flap, by plastic operation, may be turned in to occupy the gap left by free incision made to liberate the lid. When the cause is affection of the facial nerve, leeches, blisters, and stimulants in the course of the nerve are to be employed. When it is caused by cerebral congestion, antiphlogistic remedies are to be had recourse to. When the paralytic gaping of the lower lid is great, excision of a V shaped portion of its whole thickness, with accurate apposition of the cut margins, will sometimes be required to protect the eyeballs ; and when the upper lid is permanently elevated, Dieffenbach recommends the subcutaneous division of the levator palpebrse. Ptosis. Ptosis is a falling downwards of the upper eyelid ; producing no inconsiderable deformity, and seriously interfering with vision. It may constitute a disease of itself; or it may be bxit a symptom of serious affection of the brain, or of the third nerve—and is then accompanied Avith Luscitas and dilated pupil. When original, it may depend on debility of the elevating muscle, or on superfluity or thickening of the integument; or it may be connected with both of these circumstances. Redundancy of integument is easily got rid of, by removing a suffi- cient portion, either by knife or by scissors. Atony of the muscle may be overcome by stimulant frictions, the passing of electricity, or the endermic use of strychnine. Ordinary means having failed, an operation may be had recourse to. A large portion of integument is removed from the eyelid, and also from a corresponding portion of the eyebrow ; the two raw surfaces are then brought into apposition by suture j and when union has taken place, the lid will be elevated by the action of the occipito-frontalis muscle, to such an extent as to admit of useful vision. In the secondary form, dependent on affection of the brain, or of the ^V'^'^^' ^^^s* of course be directed to the part afl'octed, of Which the ptosis is a more symptom. In by far the greater number of such cases the disease will be found to be traceable to syphilis, from 2 u