ABSCESS OF THE DURA MATER. 614 We can also conceive it possible, that an injury may be sustained at a part of the cranium not connected with the course of the meningeal artery; that the symptoms of compression by extravasation may be both very urgent and very plain ; and that the surgeon, alter careful examina- tion and consideration of the case, may feel satisfied that the site of extravasation corresponds to the part struck. The trephine is applied. If blood be found at that part, exterior to the dura mater, the issue is most fortunate. But if no blood be found, two questions naturally arise : Are the membranes of the brain to be perforated 1 or is another part of the cranial contents to be exposed by reapplication of the tre- phine 1 The latter question is certainly to be answered in the negative; the former, in the affirmative, only when the dura mater is elevated through the trephine-hole, tense, comparatively non-pulsating, perhaps fluctuating, or otherwise affording tolerably distinct evidence of the sought-for blood being lodged beneath, and in an encysted condition. Compression by the Accumulation of Pus between tlie Cranium and Dura Mater. Such an occurrence may be preceded or not by sanguineous extrava- sation. There may be at first disruption of the dura mater from the internal surface of the cranium, with accumulation of blood between; perhaps to such an extent as to cause compression of the brain. This organ slowly recovers ; and the patient seems convalescent. But, aftw some interval, varying from days to weeks, the inflammatory process is kindled in the injured part; suppuration occurs, and the internal bruise degenerates into an unhealthy abscess. Or there may be no previous extravasation. The bone and dura mater sustain a shock by the injury, but undergo no disruption either of themselves or of their connections. There may be at first some symp- toms of concussion, and these pass away; but convalescence is interrupte by febrile disturbance of the system, followed by symptoms of compres sion. The inflammatory process has been established in the cranium, i the dura mater, or in both ; and abscess forms between. The inflam matory process may have originated in the membrane, or in the connec tions of this with the bone, or in the bone ; or it may have begun " the diploe, causing abscess there, and extending inwards; or the origi may have been exterior to the cranium, in the soft parts, secondaril involving the corresponding portion of the interior. If a portion of the cranium have been rudely stripped of its peri-, cranium, it may die ; but it does not necessarily do so—as was formerl" stated. Should necrosis take place, and involve the whole thickness o: the skull at that point, there is necessarily detachment of the dura mater, interposition of pus between it and the bone, consequent bulging inw of the membrane, and proportionate compression of the brain. But detachment of the pericranium, with advancing necrosis of th external part of the bone, does not necessarily imply a correspondin state of matters within. The issue may be, and often is, merely an ex ternal exfoliation. The dura mater is a more important and efficient membrane Ui