GKANULATION. 79 analogous to the ordinary function of normal nutrition. This occurs in wounds wliich do not obtain coaptation of their cut surfaces, and which nevertheless do not inflame and suppurate, but retain a circulation the same as in ordinary health. A plastic formation takes place on the sur- face, to a very limited extent; not for the piu'pose of repair, but rather to constitute a covering or protection from atmospheric influence, exposure to which might by its stimulus hurry on inflammatory change. The surface, thus coated, sometimes assumes the appearance of mucous mem- brane and distils a scanty serous secretion—usually, however, it is covered by a thick crust, or scab, wliich remains dry. Beneath this, and within the original textures, there advances a cellular development, as in ordinary nutrition, but at a more accelerated rate ; whereby the parts slowly and imperceptibly expand, so as to eff'ace the breach which had previously existed. There is no formation on the outside, for filling up the gap by new structure exterior to the old; all is done within the original struc- ture, and beneath the surface of the wound. This mode is common enough in the cold-blooded animals; and, while occasionally met with in all the lower animals, is of exceptional occurrence in the human subject. The preceding modes of cure are painless, or nearly so; efiected by simple organization of plastic material, either within or without the cut surface; the advanced inflammatory process is wholly absent; there is no formation of pus ; there is no waste of the plastic material, all is employed in the purposes of repair; a thin serous fluid exudes, and that in sparing quantity. Exclusion of atmospheric air, from the cut surface, is essential to them aU; in the two first, this is effected by accurate and constant coaptation of the wound; in the third, by a suitable invest- ment of the part, either of natural or artificial construction. 4. Healing hy Granulation, or "union by the second intention." This is the usual mode of healing* in ulcers ; and also in wounds of the Fig. 16. j,.g_ surface involving much loss of substance, and consequently followed by more or less advanced inflammatory change. The first and most essential Fig. 16. Fibro-pla.stic and fnsiform cells from recent formations on the pericar- aium. Similar cells are found in granulations.—Bennett. Fig. 17. Section of a granulating surface, representing capillary loops, surrounded by the corpuscular results of the hyperplasy of the connective tissue cells ; these superficially undergoing plastic changes, which result in the gradual transformation 0 the whole thickness of plastic material into a thin cicatricial pellicle of white nbrous tissue.—Paget.