SPERMATORllIICEA. 1243 in their hands ; throwing him overboard to despair when his pockets are emptied, and every resonrce of the art of terrorism has ceased to produce a golden result. In proof that such is really the case, many instances are observed where re-assurance of the patient, with exposure of the fraud, has often served without any treatment to cure both the emissions and the protean diseases they are supposed to produce. In other cases, however, some diseased condition of the gastro-hepatic system is apparently the source of the whole mischief; a decided bilious or oxaluric diathesis ex- isting. Li other instances, mere distension of the bladder during sleep occasions the evil; and in others, again, a hypera^sthetic condition of the spinal cord, analogous to what, at a higher point of the cerebro-spinal system, would induce epilepsy, is undoubtedly the determining cause of the association of conditions which produce the combined action result- ing in emission. In some of these cases, a phosphatic state of the urine is present. Other morbid states, more nearly situated, often serve to induce the frequent repetition of this discharge j such as hemorrhoids, fissure of the anus, or ascarides in the rectum. The principles of treatment are obvious. Chastity in thought, word, and deed; cold bathing, and a tonic system of treatment; regulation of the bowels, but avoidance of purgatives, or other sources of local irritation and general exhaustion; a hard bed, sleeping in any position but on the back; early rising, cheerful society, and healthful occupation of body and mind. The patient's food should be simple, nutritious, and non-stimu- lating. Even coffee and tea should be avoided; and ;_no meal should be taken late in the evening—or any fluid, for four hours at least before going to bed. In some cases nitric acid and quassia, or phosphoric acid with strychnine, do good; in others, alkalies, with belladonna or atropine, allay the irritation ; in others, ergot of rye, and counter-irritation over the lumbar region, or over the perineum and buttocks, will be found eminently satisfactory. Some laud very highly bromide of potassium and oxide of ziuc. Tincture of the muriate of iron is useful only in the anaemic. In mild cases, the occasional introduction of a common metallic bougie may succeed in removing the irritability ; rendering recourse to the more painful and hazardous cauterization unnecessary ; and cold enemata may be of service. Compression of the urethra, by a pad applied to the perineum, has also been found useful.* If the irritability continue obsti- nate, nitrate of silver may be applied to the posterior part of the urethra, by means of the porte-caustique of Lallemand. Tliis instrument consists of a straight or curved platina canula or tube, rather smaller than a middle-sized catheter, through wMch plays a caustic-holder; and in the further extremity of this there is a narrow groove, eleven lines in length, for the purpose of holding the caustic. After filling the groove with the nitrate of silver, by fusing it over a spirit lamp, it becomes so securely fixed, that there is no danger of it escaping. At the other end there is a sliding screw or stop, by which the action of the remedy may be limited to any extent less than the groove which contains it. * Banking's Eetrospcct, vol. ii. p. 118. Sec also, on tins subject, Lallemand, des pertes seminales involiintaires, Taris, 1842. Brit, and Foreign Eevicw, April 1843, p. 346. Phillips, Med. Gazette, Jan. 1843. Civiale, Memoire sur I'Emploi des Caustiques dans quclques Maladies de rUretro, Paris, 1842.