DISLOCATION OF THE FINGEES. 943 Dislocation of the Fingers. Ey falls sustained on the tips of the fingers, dislocation of the phal- anges is sometimes produced; and the displacement is usually on the orsal aspect. It is more common hetween the metacarpal hone and first ihalanx, and hetween the first and second phalanges, than between the ;econd and third. The nature of the injury is exceedingly plain; and B^placement is effected by extension and coaptation. To render extension fective, it may be necessary to affix a laque—a piece of tape, or the end !" a silk handkercliief, or a riband—to the distal phalanx, by means of the ove-hitch; and in combination with such extension force, pressure upon le projecting extremity of the displaced phalanx, so as to urge it back to its normal position, will always be found essential; indeed, in many nstances it will be found of itseK sufficient. Sometimes the handle of a :ey may be used advantageously as an instrument of reduction. Lewis' coped splint, Charriere's digit-forceps, or the Indian " puzzle," are well idapted to afford still more efficient purchase and extension power upon 18 end of the finger, should this be desired. The Indian puzzle consists ■ an elongated hollow cone, of about 16 or 18 inches in length, made of laited ash-splittings, each continuous from end to end. The open ex- lemity is about 3-4ths of an inch in diameter, and may easily be drawn iver the part like the finger of a glove, by two ears in which its mouth erminates. When applied, and traction made from the braided cord at 18 opposite end, it takes so firm a grasp of the whole surface, that the inger could more easily be torn off than it would sKp its hold. "WTien TO wish to remove it, we abandon traction from the end, and the two ars have only to be retracted, when it comes off as easily as it slipped n. The use of splints, for some days, is expedient in the after-treat- aent of these dislocations. Compound dislocations of the phalanges do not in themselves require putation. When, however, the soft parts are at the same time much acerated, and the tendinous textures exposed—still more, if torn—the nger which could be retained by attempts to save, would be incon- eniently in the way rather than of any service to the patient. Dislocation of the Tliumh. The first phalanx is not unfrequently dislocated backwards on the orsum of the metacarpal bone, and is reduced in general with difficulty, n account of the lateral ligaments, and heads of insertion of the short .exor with the sesamoid bones, which, embracing the neck of the meta- aipal bone, " like a button in its button hole," oppose its retrograde Wemcnt. Extension having been steadily maintained for some time, y any of the means already described for reducing dislocation of the 'nger-g, flexion is made towards the palm; and during this forced lovement, slowly yet determinedly performed, with pressure upon the isplaced phalanx from behind, reduction is usually accomplished. hoTild this not succeed, the thumb should be bent forcibly backwards ^ser), so as to tilt its articulating surface up to its proper level, whore should be secured by pressure with the finger or thumb of the other