AFFECTIONS OF THE LACHRYMAL SAC. 665 rurL,nng, with low diet, and hot fomontation, followed np by the supor- icial application of nitrate of silver, or tinctui-e of iodine, will ordinarily iitlice to obtain resolution. If the symptoms are more acute, then leeching must be had recourse to ; the leeches being applied over the part itself If suppuration should occur, a very early incision should be pmctised at the most prominent point of the swelling. Not unfrequently the sac is involved, and suppurates acutely. The Lachrymal Sac may itself be tlie primary scat of an acute inflam- matory process. Tliis may occur idiopathically in those of weak system; or in any one, after exposure to cold; or it may be superinduced upon rlu-ouic affection of the sac and nasal duct. A small, hard, circum- -cribed, and very painful swelling is formed below the tendon of the orbi- cularis muscle j the superimposed integuments soon become red; the ovelids are more or less oedematous : the corresponding side of the nos- tril is dry; and the system sympathises considerably. The swelling increases, often almost obscuruag the eye; and severe headach usually is complained of. The coui'se of the tears is obstructed, by the tumid 4ate of the duct's lining membrane—the inflammatory condition having •xtended to it—and they find their way over the cheek. Suppuration iccurs j and, sooner or later, the matter is discharged externally. Then d slow recovery may ensue ; the nasal duct becomes again open, the tears resume their proper course, the suppurated aperture granulates and heals. Or the obstruction in the nasal duct remains, the tears do not reach their wonted outlet, the aperture contracts but does not heal; and the condi- tion of fistula lachrymalis is established. In some cases the disease ob- 'ously commences in the periosteum or bone. Leeches over the inflamed sac, warm anodyne fomentations, and water-dressing—with a full dose of morphia at night, to allay pain and rocure rest—ought to be used early, to avert suppuration if possible, le occurrence of this is known not merely from the fluctuation of the elling, but from the escape of a mucopurulent fluid from one or both uncta, when firm pressure is made over the swoln sac. When matter as formed, it must be evacuated. This is usually done by introducing bistoury into the sac, below the tendon of the orbicularis, which ought, f possible, to be rendered prominent by drawing the lids outwards ; but he edematous swelhng of the lids and inner canthus usually prevents Ws being successfully effected. The opening is then made where the welling is greatest, and tends to point. A very much better plan, how- ver, is to open the sac, by slitting up the punctum and canaliculus of he lower lid upon the grooved probe; and if the swelling makes the troduction of this instrument impossible, the lower lid should be orcibly everted and the sac opened by an incision on the inner side of he lid, beneath the caruncle— carrying the knife in a direction down- ards and inwards. After evacuation, light water-dressing is applied ; nd the sac, after a time, may be occasionally syringed with warm water, r an astringent lotion, or a few drops of nitrate of silver solution, may e instilled into the eye every second or third day. The remedial agent ds it way to the sac through the canaliculus, and acts quite as efli- lently as the more troublesome and formidable use of the sjainge. Wo ope that the membrane of the duct will duly recover from its tumid