602 TREATMENT OF CONCUSSION. in the more skilful and competent hands of Nature. We content our selves with carefully excluding all source of excitement, either to tb( general circulation, or to the brain's function—more especially liglit and noise ; and cold is continuously applied to the shaven scalp, by wetted cloths, or by evaporating lotions. The head should at the same time be kept elevated. Such treatment is not calculated either to thwart oi' to prevent the normal amount and form of reaction ; while, at tlie 6am( time, it leans to the side of repression sufficiently, to guard against the excess of reaction which not improbably is speedily to threaten. It may happen that though the reactive effort is well begun, it ceases, flags, and retrogrades; a period of depression again sets in ; and thi.-^ relapse looks more formidable than did the first effect of the injury. Under such circumstances we are no longer inactive spectators ; but commence a cautious system of stimulation, as formerly explained. If. on the other hand—as more frequently happens—reaction threatens t< prove excessive, we interpose our repressing agency. We empty tin bowels by the exhibition of an aperient enema; and aid this, by tho more leisurely working of an internal purge. Seclusion from light and noise, elevation of the head, and continuous application of cold, are most carefully maintained. And if still the action is sthenic and in excess, we prepare to obtain a sedative result by blood-letting. In the third stage, when reaction is plainly in excess, and inflamma- tory symptoms are fast developing themselves, the treatment is decidedly and actively antiphlogistic. Quietude and seclusion are more strictly enforced than ever ; it being all-important to obtain rest of the orgar affected, as completely as circumstances will permit. Blood is taken fron^ both the system and the part; by venesection or arteriotomy, and by leeching. And such depletion is repeated as oft and as freely as circum- stances seem to demand.* Purgatives are actively administered ; and i' is well to remember that in inflammatory affections of the cranial con tents, especially powerful doses are required. Antimony, or aconite mai be given. But when the substance of the brain is plainly indicated eu the site of the crescent inflammatory process, we do not hesitate to placi the system rapidly under the influence of mercury; having full warran for this in the delicacy of structure and importance of function which ar involved. Calomel is given in small doses, frequently repeated; and usually, it is neither necessary nor expedient to combine it with opiim] Not necessary—for there is a sluggishness of action in the intestina canal, engendered by the disease, and consequently but little risk of tb mineral proving purgative; and not expedient—lest we endanger th production of narcotism, and consequent determination of blood to th part affected. Sometimes delirium, with convulsive movements, continues after ful bleeding, and is aggravated by its further repetition; the pulse an' other characteristics of nervous reaction being present. Such symptomf coming on soon after the injury, indicate that laceration of the base c * It is rare, however, now-a-days, to meet witli a case of injury of the hea admitting of such free abstraction of blood as used to be had recourse to in fomi( times, where day after day, even for a week together, venesection to the full extei was practised with apparent benefit.