VARIETIES OF CALCULI. 1074 mals, but rare in man. It is white, spherical, smooth, and very friable • and dissolves in muriatic acid, with effervescence. VITI. TliR Cystic Oxide Calculus is also rare ;* of a yellowish-white colour, semi-transparent, glistening, wax-like aspect; the surface smooth, but of a crystallized appearance ; not laminated in texture, but present- ing the appearance of a confusedly crystallized mass ; the fracture exhibits a peculiar shining lustre; small fragments are semi-transparent. Tlie blow-pipe elicits a peculiar odour, like that of sulphuret of carbon; and there is a ready solubility in alkalies and mineral acids. IX. TlieUi 'ic or Xantliic Oxide Calculus is still more rare than either of the preceding. The texture is compact, hard, and laminated; the sur- face is smooth, the shape ovoid, the colour cinnamon-brown. The tests are—consumption before the blow-pipe, leaving a white ash, and exhaling a peculiar foetid odour; solubility in acids and alkalies—more readily in the latter; the residue of solution in nitric acid, evaporated to dryness, of a bright lemon-yellow colour—whence the name. X. Tlie Litliate of Soda sometimes enters into the composition of calculi; but very rarely constitutes a calculus of itself. The mass is white, friable, and soft, like what is seen in the tophous concretions of gout, in the neighbourhood of joints. The tests are—solubility in caustic potash, with the aid of heat; in treatment with dilute sulphuric or mu- riatic acids, the soda is separated, while the uric acid remains and may be obtained by filtration and washing. XI. The Fibrinous Calculus, like the xanthic oxide, occurs with extreme rarity. And, perhaps, the term calculus is scarcely applicable to the almost solitary case on record; in which small concretions were passed, of the size of peas, yellow, like wax, and composed of fibrin— probably the result of a bloody clot, in either the kidney or bladder. Such formations, however, as already stated, may not unfrequently con- stitute nuclei of the ordinary calculi. XII. Tlie Alternating Calculus, though last in the arrangement, is not the least frequent in occurrence. Few large calculi, indeed, fail to present more or less of the alternating character ; the nucleus consisting of uric acid or oxalate of lime ; variously coated or alternated ; the last covering invariably phosphatic, and most frequently of the nature of fusible calculus. The mulberry or uric calculus, having formed, creates much irritation in the urinary organs, and causes changes also in the general system for the worse; the urinary secretion becomes more and more depraved; and at last that derangement is produced which is favour- able to the formation of the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate; this is deposited on the growing stone, and, uniting with phosphate of Kme now furnished by the diseased mucous membrane of the bladder, constitutes the fusible formation. Such are the varieties of Urinary Calculi. Those ordinarily occurring are, the uric, mulberry, phosphatic, and alternating. Forming in the kidney, and remaining there, a calculus is said to be Eenal; originating in the bladder, or growing there after descent from the kidney, it is said * I had occasion to remove a calculus of this nature, successfully, from a patient on whom Mr. Listen had removed a like stone fifteen years before.—Monthly Journal, 1849, pp. 791 and 886.