656 ANCIIYLOBLEPIIARON AND SYMBLEniAIlON, Intractable ulcers of the eyelids—not malignant—of tlie nature oi lupus, are best treated by regard to the state of the system, more espe- cially of the digestive organs ; and by occasionally touching the parts with the fluid nitrate of mercury, or nitric acid. Sometimes they are of a syphilitic character ; obviously rlcpuudent mainly, for cure, on consti- tutional treatniont. In children, secondary syphilitic ulceration of tho lids is frequently extensive, though not deep, and requires careful dress- ing with black or blue wash. In adults, the ulcers are usually rodent, and depend upon a more advanced stage of the disease. In such cii'- ciunstances, imless checked, hideous deformity, or even complete destruc- tion of the lids and globe, may result. AnchylohUpharon and Symhlepharon. By the term Anch.yloUex>haron is understood, union of the eyehds at their tarsal margins ; congenital; or accidental, the result of cicatrization after burn or scald. When congenital, the cohesion is seldom to a great extent; occupying only the angles. No interference may be deemed necessary. Wlien more extensive, causing not only an unseemly deformity, but lilcewise interfering with vision, separation of the pretematm'allyi united parts may be readily effected by incision. Afterwards, all neces- sary means should be taken to prevent reunion ; each lip of the wot being made to cicatrize separately, by granulation. AVben the closure complete—a circumstance of rare occurrence—a fold of the parts sho" be first raised from the ball, and cut through in a horizontal direction ^ through this aperture a director is carefully introduced ; and on it t subsequent division to the angles is safely effected. The accidental fo~ is amenable to similar treatment. But greater care is necessary, in th after management, to avoid reimion. This is prevented by the inter position of dressing, frequent movement of the parts—and, if necessa by forcible separation of the lids by plaster, and the application of som gently astringent lotion. By Symblepharon is meant adhesion of the eyelids to the eyeball seldom congenital; usually the result of cicatrization after injury, some cases, the cicatrix is dense and contracted ; admitting of no attemp at cure. In others, the adhesions are comparatively slight, and there i» sufficient laxity of texture. In these latter, the lids are to be Hberate" by careful dissection ; and all traces of cicatricial tissue are to be carefuU; dissected off the surface of the cornea. The after treatment is, in sue}, cases, the matter of greatest difficulty ; and reunion is much more liab to take place than in anchyloblepharon. It is best prevented by quent motion of the eye, by proper dressing, and by the occasional intrc duction of a probe to separate the new adhesions. The tcmpora" insertion of an artificial eye has been suggested, and the use of t flattened ring of silver has also been recommended, to maintain tl separation of the lid and globe at their cii-cumference, until cicatria tion is complete ; but even the most persevering exertions have oftd proved unsuccessful.