CE,our. 873 the tracliea may he more or less obstructed hy false membrane, and per- haps, indeed, pseudo-membranous formation may have extended through- out almost the Avholo broncliial ramifications. When the third stage of croup has set in, tracheotomy nmst prove only exceptionally a means of restoring the patient. In this disease, therefore, the practical inference from such considerations will bo, that in the first stage oiu* principal confidence must be placed in medical treatment. When, however, the second stage has set in, in spite of medical efforts to check the progress of the disease, the question arises, Shall we perform, or shall we not resort to tracheotomy ? This ques- tion has been very difi'erently answered by the experience of different surgeons. By some it is considered as a despe- rate attempt to save life, and therefore not justifiably under- taken so long as medical treatment holds out a shadow of a hope of checking the disease. By others, a great success in the employment of tracheotomy in cases of supposed croup has led them to resort to its performance in every case, whenever the respiration becomes seriously interfered with, whatever the stage of the disease—so long, in fact, as the httle patient is struggling inefi'ectually for breath and not actually moribund. To the latter class of practitioners we incline to belong, and hold that the surgeon should un- hesitatingly undertake the operation whenever the dyspnoea is urgent, sustained, and accompanied by drawing in of the lower part of the chest on inspiration, with recurring paroxysmal attacks, a rapid pulse, becoming feeble, a con- gested or a pallid and leaden aspect, with turgid veins and copious perspiration. If the operation is not performed under such circum- stances, death may ensue during the next paroxysm; or if it be de- delayed longer, the delay is sure to induce oedema of the lungs, to increase the likelihood, therefore, of congestion or actual stasis of the pulmonary circulation, to exhaust the heart by its inability to force onwards the blood accumulating on the right side, and lastly, still further to diminish the powers of life by the persisting dyspnoea, and the continuance of depressing treatment, so that the little chance becomes no chance at all when tracheotomy is performed at a later period. ]S"o doubt the tube and woimd in the trachea may be causes of bronchitis; but certainly impending asphyxia, oedema of the lung, and its consequences, and exhaustion of the patient, are far more likely to act injuriously in deter- mining not only bronchitis, but also collapse of the lung, if permitted to continue till a fatal issue is obviously threatened. No doubt, also, the false membrane may extend beyond the tracheal opening; that, however, does not preclude its exsputation, after tracheotomy, any more than before ; nay, it saves tlie patient from the risk of the shreds or casts becoming impacted in the glcjttis, and thus inducing instantaneous death. But experience proves furthermore that where it does not save the little patient from death, it alleviates his sufferings ; affording him respite from struggling ellbrts, at a small expense of tempoj-ary additional pain, while It stdls the hoarse cry and the barking cough wliich have, during tlio Fig- 297. Example of fiilse mcmbnino, in ciuuii. iLa evil eoust'.nieiiecs very aiii>an'iit, Fig. 297.