492 HYDROPHOBIA. 1. The wound usually heals up in the ordinary way; generally by granulation. But, after a time, pain and itching are felt in the cicatrix and its neighbourhood. The pain increases, and extends up the limb usually in the course of the nerves; unaccompanied by discoloration of the integument, except at the cicatrix, and not increased by pressure or: motion;—it is neuralgic. The cicatrix becomes swoln and discoloured and usually ulcerates, discharging a thin unhealthy pus. ITie general system shews disorder of a febrile character; and marked headache; supervenes ; with restlessness, disturbed dreamy sleep, increase of shoot- ing pains from the injured part, flying pains in other parts of the body, and other evident signs of much excitement of the whole nervous system, y There is great acuteness of the senses, and of the intellectual functions memory is strong, imagination vivid and fertile, the countenance animated;; the eyes sparkling and clear, but intolerant of light. This state, how-- ever, is apt to be succeeded hj dull despondency; the result, probably, J of mental depression and fear. The pulse is usually more frequent and. strong than in health; and yet not of the true inflammatory character. Then comes the dread of fluids ; completing the first stage ; the duration of which is short, never exceeding six days, and usually Hmited withiiii two or three. In some cases, the premonitory symptoms do not occuTf. or at least are marked most imj)erfectly. 2. The second stage commences with a dread of fluids. Frightful' agitation—accompanied with painful spasm of all the muscles of respira-: tion, especially in the neck, and convulsive difficulty of breathing—h produced by even the sight of liquids ; by hearing fluids in motion, oi poured from one vessel to another; by the sudden contact of even £ breath of cold air; and by the idea of drinking. The patient, usually is well aware of his state ; and, racked with a burning thir-st, may try t(. overcome this instinctive aversion. Summoning a tremendous courage, he may make a dash at fluid, and obtain a mouthful; but couATilsioa are sure to follow, most lOcely preventing deglutition of more than a fev drops. Sleep is now lost entirely; and the mind is strangely altered Despair has taken firm root; the patient considering his doom inevitable and wisliing to be relieved by death from his intense suffering ; yet ofter talking with volubility and assumed ease, on subjects indifferent or trifling: in the vain attempt to conceal his real condition. Sometimes, auxiet> is obscured by no attempted concealment; and occasional screams attes the horror and suffering. The general surface is extremely irritablt the slightest impression on it exciting paroxysms. And these are pi- duced, not only by the sight, hearing, and thought of fluids; but a.h by the sight or hearing of objects connected with them, as cups, te;i spoons, etc. This hydro];)hobia may remit for a time; in some fi' cases, an intermission has occurred, and swallowing of di-ink has ho accomplished with comparative ease; but the amendment is deceptivr and the paroxysms recur in a more intense and enduring form. Tbei is pain in the neck and throat; and pain in the epigastric and diaphrai matic regions; often occasional vomiting of dark, bilious matter. - thick tenacious sputum accumulates in the mouth and throat; oca sionally it is seen frothy on the lips, in consequence of the diflicu respiration ; and the attempts to dislodge it, by hawking and expcctor;