FKACTURES. 530 Pig. 211. tinuity is plainly uninterrupted, and bending is apparent; there is much pain, deformity, and loss of power, but no crepitus; the bending can be undone, by force suitably applied; and then, for the first time, crepitus will be perceived. A few of the osseous fibres had given way, on the convexity of the curve ; and these, not being brought into apposition, could give no crepitus. In straightening the bone, the fracture may be rendered complete ; or, at all events, the already ruptured fibres will be brought into contact; and in either case, crepitus is at once elicited. In other cases, bending is un- accompanied with any solution of continuity. For example, a child may receive a smart blow on the head ; depression of the cranium may be so occasioned, without any fracture; and the depressed portion, by the innate and gradual resilience of the osseous tissue at that age, ultimately re- sumes its normal relative position. Constitutional vice often predisposes to fracture. The cancerous diathesis does so, as we have already seen ; and, still more, that abnormal condition of the skeleton denoted by the term " fragilitas ossium." It is a common saying that the bones are more brittle in frost than at other times; but, probably, the greater frequency of fractures in the winter months can be more rationally accounted for, by the increased liability to fall, and by the hardness of the ground on which the falling body is received. The functions of certain bones predispose to their fracture ; the clavicle, supporting the shoulder, is rendered liable to fractiu'e by blows or falls on that part; and the radius is similarly circumstanced, when compared with its com- panion the ulna, in consequence of its special connection with the hand. Others, again, are rendered liable by the mere exposure of their posi- tion. The unprotected cranium, for example, is more liable to fracture than the comparatively well-cushioned scapula ; the clavicle is more i liable than the ribs ; and any of these is more liable than the spine. "While such circumstances may be said to be the predisposing causes » of fracture, the exciting causes are two ; external force and muscular action. Force may be applied directly; as by a blow, or by a heavy weight passing over the part. Or it may be indirect; as when the clavicle breaks from violence received on the shoulder; or the fibula, near its head, from a shock sustained on the foot. Again, fracture of a bone may be effected by muscular agency alone ; as when the patella, or olecranon, is snapt across, during an intense and sudden muscular effort; or, as is not uncommon, when the humerus gives way during the effort to throw a stone, or under attempted feats of strength. The Syvi2otoms of fracture are usually very plain. There is obvious deformity of the part at the seat of fracture, and distortion of the limb; while its muscular power is all but lost. A fractured arm, for example, is crooked, swoln, shortened, and twisted—in short, " out of draAving; and the patient is unable to move it, without the assistance of the corre- sponding member. Sometimes, as in the case of tlie patella, the part is Fir. 211. Partial fvactnrp, witli bpiidiiig of tlip fpnnir.