65 MERCUKY. cost of mercuiy, it has been proposed to give calomel in very minute doses, often repeated ; as the twelfth of a grain every hour ; absorption being supposed to take place very readily and fully from minute doses —as is exemplified in the internal use of arsenic. Such caution is much to be commended ; and such doses are quite allowable, in cases of no great urgency, either as regards intensity of disease or importance of tex- ture involved ; but the old-established and well-tried dose, as above stated, is more trustworthy in the true inflammatory emergency. Should calomel and opium be found to disagree, a convenient substitute may be found in the blue pUl, Plummer's pill, or hydrargyrum cum creta with opium or Dover's powder. When it is desirable to aff'ect the system with extreme rapidity, or when the ordinary mode of exhibition is pecu- Harly tardy, or resented by the stomach and bowels, the desired result may be accelerated by rubbing in or applying on lint a mercurial oint- ment or liniment on the abdomen, the inside of the thighs, in the axillae, or over the part affected. The mercurial vapour bath for local or general appHcation will be found very serviceable where warmth and moisture to create cutaneous determination are thought desirable. We cease to give mercury when the gums have been " touched," as the ordinary phrase is ; shewing the attainment to systemic seizure. We recognise that this result is about to be reached, from the foetor of the breath and the tumescence of the gums, behind the upper incisor teeth and molars, both upper and lower. Or we may often stop at a still earKer period; the symptoms which demanded it having satisfactorily given way. Should the disease, on the contrary, prove obstinate, even after affection of the mouth, the mercury may be cautiously continued, in diminished dose, so as to maintain ptyalism, until recedence or change in the symptoms occur; but, in no case is full, far less sustained, saliva- tion at all necessary. Before enjoining its administration, it is always well to inquire as to the existence or not of idiosyncrasy regarding it; whether the patient is easily affected, or otherwise; whether liable to the troublesome eczema mercuriale, or to the dangerous erethismus. In head cases we may often advantageously carry the use of the mer- curial as a purgative into its constitutional effect. In such circumstances, at all events, no opium must be given with it. Should mercury both gripe and threaten to purge, notwithstanding combination with opium or hyoscyamus, it is well that the doses be given in some bulky aromatic vehicle. In non-inflammatory cases—as certain forms of the venereal disease—such disagreeable tendencies are readily avoided by giving the mercury immediately after the ordinary meals. Locally, mercury is of use; in the form of plaster or ointment, applied to the part affected. But the proper time for its employment IS later than that of the internal exhibition. It is meet to oppose, not the disease itself, but rather the changes in texture which have resulted. All acuteness of disease must have been previously subdued by earHer and more appropriate remedies; and then mercurial inunction, by its local stimulant effect, rather than from systemic absorption, may rouse and regulate absorption, so that abnormal product may bo removed and the normal condition of texture restored. But, at an earHer period, the same