RUBEFACIENTS. G5 may be noticed as lamiliav examples. Of these, the mustard is jarobably the most frequently employed ; in the form of epithem—termed a sina- pism, or mustard poultice ; made by spreading, within the folds of fine flannel or mushn, a thick layer of smooth mustard paste, made with vinegar,* and warmed before application. It is kept on until redness is fully established in the skin; and, for this purpose, no definite period can be assigned, as the quahty of mustard varies materially, and there are many individual peculiarities in this respect. Some patients retain such appli- cations for several hours, with comparative impunity ; while to others even a brief contact is almost wholly intolerable. In children, the time of their appHcation should be invariably brief: otherwise, they are apt to vesicate, proving more than mere counter-irritants. Indeed they may induce even gangrene, when imprudently or negligently employed, espe- cially in the aged or where coma is present. An excellent rubefacient has been brought into use by Dr. Cor- rigan ; and may be termed a minor cautery. " A thick iron wire shank, of about two inches long, is inserted in a small wooden handle ; having on its extremity, which is sHghtly ciirved, a disc or button of iron, a quarter of an inch thick, and half an inch in diameter — the whole instrument being only about six inches in length. The face of the disc for application is quite flat." A small brass spirit-lamp having been lit, the button is held over the flame ; " keeping the fore- finger of the hand holding the instrument, at the distance of about half an inch from the button. As soon as the finger feels uncomfortably hot, the instrument is ready for use; and the time required for heating it to this degree is only about a quarter of a minute." Should no spirit-lamp be at hand boiling water answers quite as well Application is made as quickly as possible ; " the skin being tapped successively, at intervals of half an inch, over the whole part to which we wish to apply it; always taking care to bring the flat surface of the disc fairly in contact with the skin. In the course of a quarter of an hour, or sometimes of a very few minutes, the whole skin becomes of a bright patient feels a glow of heat over the part."t The simple counter-irritants are adapted to the milder and less ad- vanced examples of the inflammatory process. As already stated, slight afi'ections of the throat and air passages often yield readily to a sinapism; assisted, perhaps, only by a purge, a sweat, and temporary starvation. As a general rule, however, it is not the less to be inculcated—in regard to the higher grades of the inflammatory process—that even the simplest * The chemist says that vinegar is no good solvent of the principles of the mus- tard which by combination produce the essential oil on which its irritant eilect de- pends ; but experience assures us that it makes a most efficient sinapism. Perhaps the vinegar itself proves irritant. t Dublin Hospital Gazette, 1st March 1846. Fig. 14, Corrigan's small cautery, for rubefacient counter-irritation ; shewTi in the !Wt of use. Fig. 14. red, and the F