THE SUPPURATIVE STAGE. 6 matory afifcction of a serous menibrane, for instance, a large amount of liquid product often rapidly accumulates within its cavity, and so long as the disease persists, that fluid either remains stationary or receives an increase ; but so soon as the inflammatory process has fairly given way, and resolution is in progress, the accumulation plainly diminishes, almost pari passu; and in two days, or perhaps in but a few hours, it may have in great part disappeared. The inflammatory change of the blood is important. 1, The liquor sanguinis is increased in relative quantity, and its serum is said to con- tain an unusual amount of albumen. 2. The fibrin is increased in quantity ; both actually, and relatively to the red corpuscles. The pro- portion of serum is diminished. 3. The red corpuscles are relatively diminished in number ; and their tendency to aggregation is augmented. 4. The colourless or " lymph globules " seem to be frequently increa-sed in numbers ; but this change is by no means essentially connected with the inflammatory process, as some have supposed. This alteration of the blood—begun in the second, and completed in the third stage—is at first a local act, efl'ected in the part inflaming; but this laboratory, if continued in operation, may ultimately involve the whole circulating fluid in similar change. To recapitulate—The characteristics of the third stage are—Blood much altered; stagnant, or tending to stagnation. The capillaries over- distended ; the vascular tissue, generally, spongy, soft, and lacerable. The neighbouring collateral circulation unusually active. Coi^ious product of fibrinous serum; extravasation of blood, by lesion of the capillary coats ; absorption in abeyance ; nutrition and function wholly perverted. Struc- ture changed, softened, and enlarged. Suppuration in progress ; and part of the texture breaking up. Nothing healthy, or consistent with local health ; all essentially disease. This state is not established at once, so soon as the period of incuba- tion has passed away; but, as already stated, is approached by a process of transition more or less gradual. When somewhat tardy, its compoimd nature is the more distinct. Take, for illustration, the vaccine pustule ; the inflammatory process resulting from a poisoned wound, and gradually attaining to its consummation. The exciting cause is applied, and for a time seems to be inoperative; three days commonly elapse, without the appearance of change; and this is the period of incubation. On the fourth day, the papular condition is established ; commencing with simple turgescence, and steadily verging towards the second or plastic stage. During the four following days, the vesicle is formed ; at first containing a serous fluid, which afterwards becomes of a more lymphous character. On the ninth day, the pustular formation is attained ; the third or suppurative stage having been completed. This is the crisis. Soon thereafter, the signs of disorder ordinarily subside, and the part slowly recovers. During the morbid progress, advancement is usually at and from the irritated part as a centre; and, supposing a section made of the inflam- matory disc, the accompanying diagram may conveniently illustrate the state of the part; suppuration, actual or imminent, surrounded by fibrin- ous product, and that encircled by accumulation of serum.