TUMOURS OF THE EYEBALL. 72D there may be foreign mutter in the interior of the eye, Avithoiit any appai-ent solution of continuity in either the cornea or sclerotic. For, the elasticity of texture may at once close the chasm in the tunic, and conceal it from even minute inspection. In those cases where any con- siderable portion of the vitreous humour Avith the lens is lost, there is usually httle or no inflammatory disorder excited. Eut if the lens is dislocated, and retained ; if tlae iris is caught in the wound ; if a foreign (body has lodged; or if the wound is a puncture, and little of the con- jtents of the globe have escaped—then the occurrence of more or less j^iiflammatory mischief may be anticipated. , Entozoa.—The Filaria medinensis has been found beneath the con- uiicti\'a; the Filaria ociili humtmi in the lens. In the latter texture, Iso, have been found the Monostoma lentis and the Distoma oculi. The Jysticercus telce cellulosa has more than once occupied the anterior hamber; whence it may be removed by section of the cornea. By aeans of the ophthalmoscope, it has also been recognised in the vitreous umour. Tumours. IThe eyeball is liable to be the seat of three kinds of tumour ; two lese malignant—the medullary, and the melanotic. The third is 'ulous in its nature. The medullary and scrofulous products are , common at an early age, and seem usually to originate in connec- with the retina; gro-\ving from the bottom of the eye, occupying jhamber of the vitreous humour, and rapidly making way forwards, of vision is early, but not necessarily complete; the visual power le portion of the retina which is unimplicated in the disease remaining fected. The tumour in its first stage can be seen dimly, through the 1, of a yellowish or pinkish colour, with an almost metallic lustre; 8 as yet there is no external symptom, the pupil is natural, and ler pain nor superficial congestion is present. In infants and young Iren it is almost impossible to obtain any satisfactory information . the ophthalmoscope, unless the little patient is first chloroformed. 3n, however, this is effected, the retina is seen to be elevated from Eundus, not floating, sometimes lobulated, more vascular than in the aal state, of a yellowish tint, and devoid of choroidal vascularity, the growth advances, the pupil dilates and becomes fixed, the lens L pressure becomes opalescent, and is pushed forwards into the rior chamber. Now the sclerotic and conjunctiva become congested, cornea opaque, the eyeball enlarged; intense orbital pain sets in, 1 copious lachyramation; the patient becomes feverish, loses his stite and rest, and emaciation commences. The sclerotic begins to it Ige, usually at its upper part, above the corneal margia; an opening U ras, the contents of the globe escape, attended with more or less fi lapse of its tunics, and relief to the paiu and feverish excitement ■yn Jch were present. In the scrofulous form the enlargement may now ;. f side; the globe shrinking, until it becomes reduced to a mere button bdlwasted tunics at the bottom of the orbit. And in some cases this t '^phic retrogression takes place even without the globe giving way. ■s\'\the. medullary form, again, when the coats of the eye have yielded, ,1