1032 VENTllO-INGUINAL HERNIA. surgeon may liave his attention directed to the presence of the testis projecting into its posterior and lower part. It is otlierwise in the operation for the wfantile variety; for in cutting down, the surgeon may be much embarrassed by meeting fii-st with one serous sac—the tunica vaginalis—through wliich he must pass to reach the hernial sac, which lies beneath. In some instances there may be some thickness of areolar tissue, or even the elements of the cord interposed ; more usually, how- over, the two serous sacs are incorporated. It is to be remembered, that within the inguinal canal, a small stran- gulated hernia may exist with scarcely any perceptible swelling; a minute portion of bowel being tightly embraced by the margins of the superior abdominal ring. The symptoms are Klcely to be mainly those of enteritis, and attention may not be directed to the groin. In such circumstances the patient has great risk of perishing ; unless by sloughing and abscess outward discharge occur, with establishment of artificial anus. In all such cases where, besides the localised pain, the presence of a tumour, however small and indistinct, and the existence of urgent symptoms concur, an exploratory operation should be undertaken ; and in such circumstances the rehef of a strangulation has often afforded the best proof of the propriety of interference. Ventro-inguinal Hernia. This is also called the Direct (Cooper) or Internal (Hesselbach) in- guinal hernia. Descent is unconnected with the superior abdominal ring ; and takes place through the abdominal parietes, immediately or nearly opposite the external abdominal ring. The protrusion occurs in the triangular space (Hesselbach), bounded on the inner side by the outer margin of the rectus, externally by the epigastric vessels, and inferiorly by the inner haK of Poupart's ligament. This triangular space, however, is divided into two unequal halves by the remains of the obliterated hypogastric artery. The ordinary form of inferior direct inguinal hernia protrudes through the lower of these parts, which lies between the obli- terated hypogastric vessel and the margin of the rectus. The less common form, or superior direct inguinal hernia, protrudes through the portion of the triangle which lies between the epigastric artery and the hypogastric vessel, in the former, the protrusion, covered by the sac and transver- salis fascia, either lacerates or dilates the conjoined tendon, and passing through the external abdominal ring, with the cord to its outer side, ac- quires a covering from the intercolumnar fascia. In the latter, the pro- trusion passes close to the inner side of the epigastric vessels, beneath the margin of the internal oblique and transversalis. Here coming in contact vnth. the cord, it acquires a partial cremasteric covering, but still lias the cord to its outer side. This form of hernia would therefore have the same coverings, and somewhat the same aspect, as the oblique in- guinal hernia ; but would differ from it in having the epigastric vessels to the outer side of its neck, and the cord upon its outer instead of its posterior aspect. In making efforts at reduction, the same measures already described as suited to the oblique form of hernia are essential here. The direction