FEACTUKE OF THE ULNA. 921 of fracture, commencing about half an inch above the epitrochlea, runs in a line oblique to the shaft, and passing through the middle of the articu- latinfT surface of the trochlea, detaches the internal condyle. During flexion of the forearm there is little or no displacement; but, on extension, the ulna is carried upwai'ds and backwards, by the weight of the forearm, there beino- no longer any efficient support to the coronoid process. The signs jy-e crepitus, on direct lateral movement of the injured part; obvious displacement of the olecranon by rotation, backwards and outwards, in extension, and replacement of it by flexion of the forearm. In treat- ment, the hmb is arranged in a rectangular position, with a pad of lint in front—the whole being supported and maintained by a figure of 8 bandage. But after the first week or fortnight, it is expedient to undo the apparatus from time to time, and practise passive movement of the joint, lest anchylosis should occur. The Ejjitrochlea or Internal Epicondyle may be fractured in children or adolescents, the line of fracture in these cases being extra-articular. Granger (Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, 1818) ascribes it to muscular contraction, but probably it is always due to direct injury. The frag- ment may be carried downwards towards the forearm, or upwards and backwards towards the olecranon. In many instances, it undergoes no sensible displacement. Injury to the ulnar nerve may accompany this accident, followed by vesication of the Kttle and ring fijigers (Granger). The treatment should be that of flexion of the forearm at right angles, \nth the pad and bandage already described. 2. Of the External Condyle.—The course of fracture, commencing above the line of the capsule of the joint, passes obHquely through the articular surface, either separating the radial articulating facet, or impli- cating the trochlear surface which articulates with the ulna. The broken portion may pass upwards and backwards, or upwards and forwards. Sometimes while the articular portion, along with the radius, passes backwards, upwards, and inwards, the upper part of the broken fragment [trojects forwards and even outwards. Or, again, there may be little or 110 displacement in any position of the limb. But crepitus is to be felt; acre especially during rotatory movement of the hand and radius, or by izing the condyle and moving it backwards and forwards. Treatment s as in the prececUng cases, and a like early resort to passive motion ■hould be attended to. TIte External Epicondyle has been described by some writers as ustaining separation from the condyle. The small size of this process ;';arcely admits of its sufiering from muscular action, or from direct IIjury apart from the condyle; that is to say, without implicating the ticulation, and therefore being virtually a lesser example of fracture of le condyle. Fracture of tlie Ulna. 1. Of the Olecranon.—This is usually the result of direct injury, by fall on the elbow; occasionally it has been caused by muscular action 'ily, in violent and sudden extension of the hmb. The line of fracture ly coiTespond to the extremity, middle, or base of the process; the 'iddle hne of fracture being the most common. In the two first, th*