422 TREATMENT BY PRESSUKE. bo, being not procluaed. Shcnild pressure luil, deligation is at least as likely to prove successful as if no pj-evious treatment had been ,| omployed ; unless indeed its long cojitimmuee shall have so increased li the collateral circulation, that it has acciuireil a capacity sufficient to i maintain the aneurismal condition even after deligation has been pi-ac- tised. And this is no mere theoretical objection ; for before these days ■ of compression, such cases did now and then occur after the use of i the ligature, the aneurismal symptoms di]ninishing for a time and I again becoming as characteristic as ever when the circulation and I pulse in the extremity became restored. The disadvantages are, there- - fore, a protracted period of treatmentj sometimes a considerable amount i of pain, ultimate uncertainty of cure, and the possibility of its inter- - fering with an after resort to ligature. If improperly conducted, . compression is in every point of view certainly inferior to ligature well i and properly employed ; not only less certain of cure, but also even i more certain of danger at the selected part of the vessel. And itt need cause no surprise that unfortunate cases have occurred. But, when i well managed and employed with due selection, pressure bids fairr to supersede liagature, in many cases of external aneurism; more espe- ■ cially the popliteal. The leading points of the method may be again stated. Tlie pres- • sure is at some distance from the tumour ; moderate, and regidated: according to the feelings of the patient. It is not necessary, and iti is not our object, to obstruct, far less to obliterate the vessel at the com- pressed point. In other respects the same treatment is followed out,. regarding both part and system, as in favouring spontaneous cure without! any surgical interference. The first successful case of the modern use of pressure occm-red in i the practice of the late Mr. Todd of Dublin, in 1825. But the method i then fell again into disuse; until once more revived, in 1842, underj more favourable auspices, by Dr. Hutton of the same city. Mr. Cusaclr, Sir P. Crampton, Dr. BelHngham, and others, followed; also with suc- cess. Mr. Listen and the rest of the London School in due time became ; converts to the practice. And now ourselves have, for some time, been following in the wake ; while statistics from all quarters are bearu:g out not only the safety but the success of the practice. In 127 cases of popliteal aneurism treated by compression accordin. to the analysis of Broca, 116 were successful, and six died ; while of 18i^ cases recorded by Morris, in which ligature of the femoral was ijcrformed for the same condition, forty-six died, and in six which recovered amputation had to be resorted to. But to take a more special exi^erienco of these two methods of treat- ment, Dr. Belliugham states that in thirty-tAvo cases of popliteal aneurism in which comi^ression was employed, twenty-six were cured ; and of the remaining six, two died, in two amputation was performed, in one tin ligature was resorted to, and in one all treatment was discontinncil In Mr. Syme's experience, while he has tied the lemoral thirty-six tiun for popliteal aneurism, he has had a satisfactory result in every cas^c- And the statistics of Mr. Busk and of Dr. Toogood, although luore limited, has been equally satisfactory in favoiu- of the ligature. I.