971 H/EMATO-TIIOIIAX. substance, is only likely to create lurther mischief. When the lodgment has existed for some time, and a chronic purulent discharge continues to flow from the wound, careful exploration by means of a probe is then likely to tiiford more trustworthy information; and, if need be, dilata- tion of the wound, or even excision of a portion of rib, may be found necessary, for exploring the portion of the sinus interior to the thoracic cavity with the hnger, or for extracting the foreign body when recognised. When the foreign substance is metallic, it may become encysted; or, according to the observation of some surgeons, in a few rare cases, it may lie loose in the cavity, and move Avith every change in position of the patient's trunk. In such circumstances, no interference is either indicated by symptoms, or permissible in practice. Hcem ato-Tliorox. This term denotes an accumulation of blood in the pleural cavity, causing more or less compression of the corresponding lung, with the concomitants and consequences of this, already noticed. It may be pro- duced by spontaneous escape of blood, through rupture—as in aneurism ; much more frequently it is of traumatic origin—by wound of the lung, or of an intercostal artery. It may be either simple or compound ; the latter, if the result of a penetrating wound ; the former, if caused by puncture of the lung, or of an intercostal artery, in a case of fractured rib with much displacement of the sharp ends of the bone—the integu- ment remaining entire. According to the extent of accumulation, respira- tion is more or less oppressed; there is dulness on percussion over the dependent part of that side, and no respiratory murmur can be heard; on the opposite side, respiration is puerile ; the patient can Ke only on the affected side ; the countenance is anxious ; the general surface is cold and pale, and the face and neck are bedewed by a clammy sweat; there is also feeble pulse, with cold extremities, suppression of urine, and other signs of serious loss of blood. In cases of hsemato-thorax occurring some days after the infliction of the wound, the corresponding side, from the false ribs to the quadratus lumborum, has often been observed of a violet colour. The ordinary ecchymosis, however, which constantly forms in the immediate neighbourhood of the wound shortly after its infliction, must not be mistaken for this symptom, first described by Valentin. If the affection be not compound, and slight in other respects, treat- ment is analogous to that of sanguineous collections in the external parts of the body, following bruise. Incisions into the cavity of the thorax should be abstained from, though recommended by some in cases where the bleeding is presumed to come from a wound of the lung, as a means of checking the flow by causing coUapse of that organ. In most cases the blood gradually disappears by absorption. Bags filled with fragments of ice should be applied to the chest; the patient should be laid upon the injured side, and kept as still as possible, while nothing but cold fluids, and these in as small quantities and as little stimulating as pos- sible, should be given. Venesection may be advisable in some few cases, to arrest bleeding, and so to limit the accumulation ; diminishing also the amount of circulating fluid in the labouring sound lung, and