1)70 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE CHEST. life the quantity of the circuUitiiig fkiid, I am inclined strongly to believe that in sucli cases it has little, if any, eifect as an antiphlogistic; acting rather mechanically, by relieving the congestion of the uninjured side, through diminution of the q^uantity of the whole volume of blood. In such circumstances, stimulants will be found frequently to afford quite as efficient relief to the dyspnoea when it sets in ; and by the regulated use of ether, ammonia, and opiates, with digitalis, aconite, or antimony— should the state of the hardness of the pulse seem to need these—the congestion of the right side of the heart will usually be found speedily to pass off, the breathing becoming less rapid and oppressed. Hectic having threatened or set in, nourishing articles of diet, with a requisite allowance of stimulants, must be administered. Tlie local management is simple throughout. At first careful examination of the wound is made, in order that no foreign matter, or splinters of bone, within reach, may be permitted to remain. By some, immediate closure of the wound in the thoracic parietes is recommended; hoping thus to assist in checking the flow of blood, and to diminish the risk of pleurisy. Instead of such a happy effect following, however, putrescence of the blood effused witliin, and the induction of a typhoid state of system, are almost certain to ensue ; only to be relieved by again opening up the wound, or making a new one in a more dependent position, so as to evacuate the decomposing fluid collected within the chest. Then the part is covered by tepid Avater-dressing, retained by light bandaging. And the patient is laid, and directed to remain, on the wounded side, so as to favour outward escape of discharge ; wliile by this posture, also, adhesion is favoured between the corresponding wounded portions of the two pleuras, so as to shut off the injured part from the general costal cavity. When laceration exists, as in gunshot injuries, great watchfulness is necessary at the time of the seiDaration of sloughs, lest secondary hemorrhage occur. Small doses of aconite are of use in averting this; by subduing the febrile excitement of the circulation which usually precedes its occurrence. Lodgment of Foreign Bodies. These may be of various kinds ; e.g., a portion of a knife or poig- nard, or of an arrow or lance, a bullet, fragments of shattered ribs, portions of the patient's clothes, a button, money, or some object which occupied the patient's pocket; portions of lint, as compresses, or tents introduced into the wound, with the view of checking bleeding, or maintaining the patency of the aperture. These may either remain persistently, becoming encysted, and, although a source of more or less uneasiness, creating Httle or no inflammatory mischief; or they may excite suppuration, and be- come spontaneously extruded by the original wound, or by a fresh open- ing, or by being expectorated—the abscess having evacuated itself into the bronchi. When the case comes under treatment at a recent period after the infliction of the wound, and the lodgment of the foreign body, this should be extracted if within reach of the finger ; the Avound being dilated, if need be, for this purpose. If not, it had much better be left alone; as all poking with probes, or forceps, on the chance of finding a foreign