401 CAUSES OF ANEURISM. and bruit may be diminished; but, though diminished, they are still there. Do the same to another tumour, and pulsation is gone quite. 9. Perhaps the tissues are lax enough to permit our tracing the vessel's coiirse with the fingers. If the tumour be aneurisnial, it will be impossible to detach it from the artery; if non-aneurismal, the vessel will be found at all parts perfectly free. Even at the supposed neck of the aneurism, per- haps, the finger's point maybe inserted between the tumour and arterial tube. 10. In aneurism of the extremities, the limb beneath the tumour is shrunk, wasted, pained; j)erhaps oedematous. And these appearances are not so marked, if they exist at all, in the case of a tumour which merely simulates aneurism. Causes of Aneurism. The disease is more frequent in men than in women; and seldom occurs before the period of puberty. In the lower animals it is not common, except in the ass, in which animal it is connected with the presence of an entozoon—the strongylus armatus. These animals lie within the aneurismal sac; their tails being entangled in the fibrinous clots, while their heads are free, and exposed to the current of blood. 1. Predisjjosiug causes.-^Yov the formation of idiopathic aneurism, as has already been stated, the existence of atheromatous degeneration of the arterial coats is essential. The most frequent site of such degenera- tion, and consequently of aneurism, is at the turnings of the blood's cur- rent ; whether by the natural curves of the vessel, as at the arch of the aorta; or by the giving off of large branches, collaterally, or in bifurca- tion. At this point in the vessel the arrangement of the fibres of the middle coat is such as to leave a A shaped portion in the axilla of the vessel, with the fibrous textures much thinner than in any other portion of its walls. The period of life most favourable for the morbid change, as already stated, is between the ages of thirty and fifty. By previous degeneration the elasticity and tone of the vessel are greatly impaired at the part changed. At each impulse from the heart, the coats yield before the wave of blood; but, wanting resilience, they fail to recover themselves as before. And thus dilatation is established and increased; the dilata- tion in form and extent probably proportioned to the extent of arterial degeneration. The dilatation may proceed; itself forming an aneurism. Or the internal and middle coats give way; and then aneurism more rapidly advances, in the manner already detailed. When aneurism has been formed by dilatation only, communication between the cyst and artery is of course wide and free ; often of the same extent as the cyst itself. When it has resulted from giving way of the coats, the aperture is of more limited dimensions; usually of circular form, sometimes no larger than a quill; with margins well defined, smooth, and often of great density. Senile earthy degeneration may also induce aneurism ; but does so much less frequently than the atheromatous. The change, it is probable, occurs m the following way. Where the earthy formation is greatest, a narrowing of the arterial canal is occasioned. On the cardiac aspect of tnis constnction, dilatation occurs. This may itself prove aneurismal Or, as is more likely, the coats at this part yield either by laceration or by ulcera- lon; and then the aneurismal formation proceeds in the ordinary way. 2 D