481 POISONED WOUNDS. swelling or hardness form deeply, there is yet no demand for dilatation. The ordinary troatnrent for granulation is carried out; and by granula- tion the aperture in due time closes, the wound healing from the bottom like a sinus. Dilatation, however, may be most necessary under certain circum- stances. 1. Hemorrhage may be serious, from a divided or punctured artery; and pressure either may have failed, or may seem unsuitable. In the original state of the wound, dehgation is impracticable ; yet the ligature must be applied. Ey incision, accordingly, the bleeding point is to be exposed; so as to admit of deligation being easily and securely performed. 2. A portion of the weapon, which inflicted the wound, may remain firmly imbedded in the deepest part. It may be necessary to dilate, to a certain extent, so as to permit the application of forceps, or other instruments, for extraction. 3. When, by deeply-seated suppura- tion, diffuse infiltration is threatened (as indicated by deep pain and hard- ness, swelling of the whole of the textures related to the wound, redness of the integimients, and violent constitutional disturbance), free incision cannot be too early employed. Then dilatation is essential to save struc- ture, and to moderate serious disorder of the system. When fascia, or other tendinous texture, has been involved in difi"use suppuration, the case proves peculiarly troublesome, as can readily be imagined, and urgently demands local treatment. The knife must be used freely ; and for this purpose the probe-pointed bistoury will generally be found most suitable. The wo^^nd should at first be dilated only to the depth of the fascia, especially if it penetrate among important parts which must not be injured ; the finger is then introduced as a guide, and, feeling its way, the knife carried along its surface divides the tissues to the requi- site extent in a safe direction. V. Poisoned Wounds. By the experiments of Blake and others, it seems fully established that the virus, whatever its nature, pervades the system through the blood; thence re-acting injuriously on the nervous system, and inter- fering more or less with all the functions of life. The efi"ects are never instantaneous. A certain number of seconds (not less than nine) are requisite for absorption, even of the most deadly poisons. Some of the more intense, as that of the most venomous serpents, would seem also to have a direct influence on the nervous centres ; probably by contact of the poison with the nerves of the part injured. Certain it is, that the nearer the wounded part is to the brain, the more speedily are the unto- ward symptoms developed. But, even admitting that this direct nervous implication is true, it can only obtain to a comparatively slight extent; and we are still forced to hold that the main agent of diffusion through the system is the circulating blood. For it seems established, at least in the majority of cases, that the contact of poison wdth the surface of the body is not sufacient to give rise to general symptoms so long as its general diffusion throughout the body, by the circulation, is prevented. It does not follow that the virus, when so diffused, shall affect all parts, 2 I