STAPHYLOMA OF THE SCLEKOTIC. 694 activity of motion; this denotes tliat the iris lias participated in the morbid state. The conjunctiva, too, frequently sympathizes more or less • and by its large, florid, tortuous vessels, the sclerotic characters may he in part obscured. In the Chronic form, tlic affection is certainly most common in persons subject to gout and rheumatism. In such cases, the symptoms come on insidiously, the whole sclerotic seldom suifering at once; but, commencing in one part, the inflammatory process remains there for a time, subsiding to reappear elsewhere, or in the other eye. That portion of the iris corresponding to the sclerotic congestion is generally sluggish, or quite uninfluenced by atropine, Avhile the rest dilates readily. In some cases the iris is manifestly implicated in the inflammatory mischief, as a change in tint of the iris, adhesions to the capsule of the lens, and a delicate filmy pupillary formation of lympli will serve to indicate. Mr. Wilde has attributed these obstinate, partial, and erratic sclerotic, inflammatory conditions to an affection of the ciliary body. In the treatment of the Acute form, blood-letting used to be resorted to; cupping the temple and free leeching being recommended. A smart purgative, followed by the employment of opiates, especially at bed time, will be found productive of greater and more permanent relief. Li som cases calomel, given in two grain doses with half a grain or a grain opium, will be found quite necessary; but colchicum, Avith quinine and; salines, is more generally productive of relief. At the same time too rigi an antiphlogistic diet must not be employed. To relieve the seve frontal and temporal neuralgia, belladonna ointment, chloroform and o" tincture of aconite liniment, and veratrine ointment will, in the order given, be found to afford satisfactory results. BKsters do no good i the acute stage. Hot fomentations increase the pain, but dry heat som times relieves it. Atropine solution dropped into the eye should-b employed once or twice a day. In the Chronic form, a careful and unstimulating but nutritious diet should be given. Quinme or cincho: and soda, colchicum, iodide of potassium, guaiacum, will be found ver serviceable in different examples of this form of the disease ; and when the iris is affected, and vision much impaired, mercurials should at on be - given ; to be stopped, however, so soon as the breath is affected, an quinine and chlorate of potash substituted. Bhstering over the foreheac- and temple is a very useful agent; and atropine solution, employed froK the first, will prevent mischief being done by the formation of adhesions^ if the iris becomes imphcated. Staphyloma of the Sclerotic. This is much less frequent than staphyloma of the cornea. Generallyl it is the result of inflammatory affection of the choroid, and change o structure so induced. The sclerotic becomes attenuated and yielding n the intervals between the recti; the engorged choroid coat shines tlirougl it; and if the disease progresses, irregidar bulgings form, constitutin; several swellings of a -bluish or leaden hue. The external vessels ar^ usually enlarged and tortuous. The prominence may become so great a to demand surgical interference. When protrusion takes place fn"'