1195 SYPIIILIZATION. The Guaiacum, in tho form of powder, tincture, or decoction, is very useful in the early forms of syphilitic affections of the throat. Sypliilization. In 1844 M. Auzias Turenne occupied himself with experiments upon the communicahility of chancres to the lower animals. In the course of these experiments he found, that the first chancre was usually more rapidly developed, attained to a larger size, secreted more matter, was attended by a greater degree of irritation, and was more persistent than the second, the second again than the third, and so on, until a period was at length reached when the inoculation ceased altogether. This condition of apparent immunity to the further effects of the chancre poison was supposed to resemble the condition of system induced by vaccination, whereby an immunity to further vaccination is engendered. Hence, as all chancres were at that period supposed to be syphilitic in their nature, he called this condition of non-susceptibility to farther inoculation " syphilized," and the process by which it was at- tained " syphilization." In a coramunication to the Erench Academy in 1850, M. Auzias Turenne arrived at the following practical deductions from his experimental researches. 1. That syphilization may be em- ployed in healthy persons as a preventive measure against the invasion of syphilis, precisely as vaccination is practised to protect the person from variola. 2. That syphilization is capable of curing persons suffering from constitutional syphilis. These results he stated he had tested upon man, and found them confirmed. The former of the propositions, as might have been expected, met with a violent opposition and an indig- nant rejection by the Academy, and with it the curative inoculation shared the same fate. In the interval between 1850 and 1854, Sperino of Turin, Gam- berini of Bologna, and Gulligo of Florence, published reports of cases of syphilis in which the curative process of syphilization was put to the test of an extended experimental investigation, with a result completely in its favour. These statements were received with suspicion, and discre- dited in this country until a comparatively recent period, when a further statement was made in favour of this procedure by Dr. William Boeck, one of the professors in the University of Christiania. This was con- tained in a paper communicated to the Edinburgh Medico-Chirurgical Society on March 3, 1858. Notices, however, of Boeck's, Malmsten's, Carlsson's, Stenberg's, Faye's, and Daniellssen's experiments, had pre- viously reached this country from eye-witnesses of their practice, who had communicated their observations to the Edinburgh Med. Journal, Dublin Quarterly, British and Foreign Med. Chirurg. Eeview, and to the Medi- cal Times and Gazette. In 1851 Professor Boeck was travelling in the north of Italy, and heard much of the treatment of syphilis by syphilization, which had for the first time been put in practice on a large scale by Sperino, the surgeon-in-chief to the Syphilocome or venereal*hospital of Turin. Ee- tuming home, Boeck resolved to try this process, as a long experience had convinced him of the uncertainty of the plans of treatment usually