453 NEUIUTIS. witli other soft textiu-es, is very rarely affected by this result of the iuflamnuitory process. The pus may be intermingled with broken down nerve tissue, as in the more recent forms of softening; or limited, as in ordinary abscess, by its cyst, and by condensed tissue around. The abscess may be acute; following the ordinaiy course, and marked by symptoms of great intensity; or chronic—most insidious in its progress, and consequently of a highly dangerous character. Induration and enlargement of structure follow chronic inflammatory disease; and are usually the remote result of some injury done to the part. Disintegration of tissue is doubtless concerned in the process of softening; peculiar to acute inflammatory change, but not necessarily, in the cerebral substance at least, accompanied with suppuration. In progressive idcer of the surface, however, wherever situated, nervous trunks, though for a time resistful of the destructive process, ultimately give way before it. Sometimes ulcer seems specially to implicate the nerve, giving rise to most violent and painful symptoms ; when, for example, that tissue has become the seat of inflammatory afiection subse- quently to laceration, bruise, or other similar injury, or is implicated in an irritable ulceration of the surface. Sloughing is fortunately comparatively rare; yet may occur as in other parts. The nerves of a limb may be implicated in sloughing of the soft parts, as do the other component textures ; and sloughing of the protruded cerebral mass is also seen in hernia cerebri. The Causes of the inflammatory process in nerves are usually trau- matic ; puncture, section, laceration, bruise, inclusion by ligature. The idiopathic form is rare. From simple wound, a minor and somewhat chronic grade of the pro- cess usually results; producing bulbous expansion of the cut end of the nerve, by multijilication of the corpuscular elements of the connective tissue which is so thoroughly developed in the neurilemma; a condition termed Neuroraa, when the swelling is of considerable size, and the seat of abnormal sensations. A similar result usually follows injury by deli- gation. Puncture, laceration, and bruise, are more likely to be followed by the advanced stage of the inflammatory process ; producing softening and suppuration, ulceration, or even death of the part. The Symptoms which attend inflammatory changes in nervous trunks are, m the acute form :—great pain, rendered excruciating by pressure, . and shooting in the direction of the nerve or nerves affected; heat and throbbing j not unfrequently a tendency to jerking of the muscles im- plicated ; inflammatory fever of a marked and intense character ; and, in the more urgent cases, the nervous centres are apt to be involved in ob- vious derangement of function. When the nervous centres are affected, the symptoms usually indicate the existence of some serious structural change going on ; this may however be insidious, and the true nature of the disease may not be unmasked till hopeless change of structure has occurred, m most cases of a surgical kind implicating the brain or spinal cord. ITie symptoms are referrible to injury, are rapidly developed, and e nature of the affection is easily recognised. In chronic examples of iMlanimatory change in the nerve trunks, such as result in the formation