1357 AMPUTATION OF THE WRIST. hand—to the head of tho metacarpal bone at its articulation with tlie trapezium. Still further abducting the member, he severs the volar mass of muscles from the palm, divides the flexor tendon, and com- pletes the operation by disarticulation. Or the bistoury may be en- tered over the trape- zium, and carried down on the dorsum of the metacarpal bone ; hav- ing reached the distal extremity of this, it may be swerved to the inside; thence it may be made to transfix the ball of the thumb, Mg. 378. emerging where it first entered; and, by cutting outwards and downwards, the flap may be constructed. According to the other method, by placing the bistoury on the web between the thumb and forefinger, and passing it up to the articulation with the trapezium, the surgeon effects disarticulation there, and laying the blade behind the metacarpal bone, forms a suitable flap by bringing the knife down on the outer side. Or, transfixing at the articulation with the trapezium, he makes the flap in the first instance; afterwards effecting disarticulation, isolating the bone, and removing the member. Or the flap may be made by dissection upwards. Excision of the Metacarpal Bone of the Thumb in cases of disease may be practised by a straight incision made along the dorsum. The result has in several cases justified the adoption of this procedure, by affording a more useful hand than had the thumb been removed entire ;* a conclusion opposed to what obtains in regard to the fingers similarly circumstanced. Amputation of the Wrist. Hitherto, pressure on the wrist has sufficed temporarily to restrain hemorrhage. Now, compression of the brachial is expedient; and is best effected by the fijm and steady grasp of an assistant—on the lower part of the arm—the nerves being excluded from pressure as much as possible. Hitherto, also, a nari'ow, straight, sharp-pointed bistoury has been the preferable instrument for making the incisions. Now, a regular am- putating knife is required : an exaggeration of the former instrument, in a fixed wooden handle ; straight, sharp-pointed, and of fine edge and temper; light yet firm. The amputating case contains various sizes ; pro- portioned to the dimensions of the parts which may require their use. * Syme, Observations in Clinical Surgery, p. 38. Fig. 378. Amputation of the thumb and its metacarpal bone.