1359 AMrUTATION OF THE FOREARM. Fig. 380. Amputation of forearm. middle of the forearm, it is not easy to obtain a sufficiency of fleshy cover- ing for an operation by transfixion. Yet—when circumstances admit of it—the amputation may easily enough be performed there, by cutting from without inwards, and retaining nothing but skin and areolar tissue to constitute the flaps. The flaps, then, may be made either by transfixion, or by cutting from without inwards ; or by a combination of the two modes, the dorsal flap being made by dissection, the flexor by transfixion. Operating by transfixion, in the case of the left forearm, the surgeon with his left liand pinches up the cutaneous tissues on the dorsal aspect, and enters his knife horizontally over the ulna, bringing it out at a corresponding point over the radius, and making the flap, deliberately. The knife is again introduced, beneath the ulna, and pushed through on the palmar aspect of the bones ; not at the same point as the former transfixion, but about half an inch lower down; while the assistant, holding the limb. Pig. 380. extends the hand and fingers that the muscles may be cut short, and redundancy of muscle or tendon in the flap avoided. An assistant retracts the flaps; with a few circular sweeps of the knife the surgeon clears the bone of soft parts, at the very upper part of the wound; the interosseous space is freed, by the knife being passed between the bones; and the saw is then applied. The three principal vessels, at least, require ligature. The wound is then adjusted in the ordinary way. In most cases, it is easier of execution to make the posterior flap by external incision and dissection ; and, especially in primary amputations, to employ it as the principal covering for the bones ; cutting it, therefore, long and broad; and dividing the soft parts upon the flexor aspect, either by transfixion, or by cutting from without inwards, so as to leave as little muscle as possible in the composition of the stump. This pro- cedure win be found to afford every advantage possessed by Mr. Teale's method, and to have the additional recommendation of being more easily performed, as well as better suited than the rectangular flap for the dimi-