420 TREATMENT BY PRESSURE. Fig. 184. dej^ree of pressiiru is applioil to the vessel; at a point where its coats may bo expected to be sound, and consequently not prone to resent such pressure unto ward ly. This is maintained, so long as it can be conve- niently borne by the patient; but no longer. So soon as uneasy sensa- tions become at all intense, with perhaps swelling and numbness of the limb, and throbbing in the part, pressure is eitlier slackened or altogether removed. Afterwards, the parts having recovered, it is reapplied : again it is removed ; and thus, by occasional and modified use, the disasters formerly attendant on treatment by compression may be altogether avoided. At the same time, circulation in and near the aneurism is de- cidedly moderated, so as to favour solidification. The tumour is not only arrested in its growtli, but begins to diminish ; its pulsation is less, and its dimensions contract; some day, perhaps, it seems to enlarge, beats louder, and grows tender to the touch—this is the cystitis so favourable to agglutination, and a hopeful sign ; soon the tumour quiets down again, feels harder, and is less compressible ; ultimately, the pulsation wholly disappears, and induration is complete; absorption then ad- vances, and the obliterative cure is obtained, with or without a pervious condition of the vessel at the aneurismal point. Instead of employing a single instrument, and so confining the pres- sure to one point, it is better to use two or more compressors—when cir- cumstances will admit of this, as in the case of the femoral artery. One is slackened, the other screwed tight; alternately. And thus the pres- sure, being as it were diffused more widely, is more easily borne. Fur- ther, it is well also to diffuse the counter-pressure, by placing a splint of leather or j)asteboard between the skin and pad of the instrument; the former being first covered with soap plaster. Or the more elegant and efficient apparatus of Dr. Carte is employed ; the advantages of which are the accuracy of the pressure, and tlie elasti- city of the compressor. The artery is sufiiciently operated on ; while at the same time the part is comparatively absolved from irritation. Or the same indications may be still better fulfilled by a modification of Signo- Fig. 184. Dr. Carte's instriimeut for compressing tlie femoral at its upper part; e, the girth for encircling the pelvis ; d, iron rod rising out of it ; c, the working screw, with the compressor at its end ; b, the compressor ; a, the elastic apparatus, en- gendering tolerance of the pressure.