TREATMENT OF CHRONIC ABSCESS. 94 becomes brown, cracks, emits serum, and is somewhat painful; but such imeasmess, when merely iutegumental, is not to arrest the use of the remedy; for, usually, while such is the state of the surface, tlie soft tmnour beneath is found to be satisfactorily diniiiiishing. Often thick crusts of hardened cuticle form during the use of this application; becom- ing only partially detached. They should be removed from time to time, so as to expose the recent formation beneath to the thorough operation of the remedy. A sea-voyage, more especially when somewhat protracted and rough, has been found effectual in discussing small chronic abscesses; as in the neck, or groin. When a small chronic abscess is not stationary, but steadily enlarg- ing ; and more especially when it is situated in an important neighbour- hood—it should receive the same treatment as if it were acute. That is, free, early, and dependent incision; leaving the part to granulate and cicatrice. Many a chronic abscess, even of considerable size, may be got to disappear gradually by absorption, under the patient continuance of local and constitutional treatment. Cln'onic abscess, when large, and refusing to yield by absorption, may be treated in two ways. 1. It may be dealt with as if acute. But in this there is some danger. The extensive internal surface is certain to inflame, under the double stimulus of wound and admission of atmospheric influence ; and this inflammatory attack is apt to be of a violent and intractable nature. Acute ulceration takes place, with discharge of much unhealthy matter, usually more or less mixed with blood ; and there may also be difi'use suppuration extending into the tissues around. Constitutional irritation, of a grave kind, neces- sarily follows such local mischief. And, accordingly, after incision, the treatment should for some days be very soothing, watchful, and guarded, as regards both part and system ; that such disaster may if possible be avoided, or at all events limited to a moderate and tractable form. After the period of danger has passed, the ordinary treatment of a granulating wound is to be pursued; bearing in mind that consti- tutional support will be sooner required than in the after-management of acute abscess. But when, in the case of a large chronic abscess, the state of system is such as to indicate intolerance of inflammatory invasion, along with susceptibility to its attack—as is often the case—the other mode of treatment should certainly be attempted. 2. Our object is, by a subcutaneous and valvular form of wound, to prevent atmospheric contact vdih. the interior of the cyst. A puncture, merely through the skin, is made at the distance of an inch, or an inch and a half, from the point at which we intend to penetrate the cyst. Into this wound a finely-pointed long trocar and canula are inserted, and pushed gently along beneath the integument; until, having reached the point of puncture, an elevation of the handle plunges the instrument through the pyogenic membrane. Assured of the canula's extremity being fairly lodged in the cavity of the abscess, we cautiously mthdraw the trocar; and the pus escapes. This having been effected, the canida is then removed—the forefinger of the-left litind following closely on its re-