SECONDARY ABSCESS, this theory. 1. It is impossible to tell the difference betAvcen pus-cor- 103 well and recovered. But, unexpectedly, a shivering occurs, the pulse again rises, and the tongue fouls and dries as before; fever advances; and soon our attention is directed to painful swelling, either in the part originally alfected, or at some distance from it. In erysipelas of the face, it is in the loose texture of the eyelids that we may expect the swelling; in erysipelas of the thigh it is on the inside of the limb, or in the groin; in erysipelas of the arm, it is on the inside of this, or in the axilla. But a few hours before, all may have seemed quite healthy; now the bulge is considerable; it is full of pus, usually of a thin kind ; and the collection is rapidly on the increase; areolar tissue readily giving way before it, and skin becoming undermined ; for the disease is asthenic, and there is a want of limiting new matter. Such abscess may be single ; sometimes there is more than one. Most commonly, the plurality is not contemporaneous but successive. One is opened to-day ; another,shews itself on the morrow ; that, too, is dealt with, and a third appears. I have seen in one limb twelve such abscesses, in less than the same number of days. If neglected, they rapidly enlarge, ultimately giving way ; and serious constitutional irritation may follow. If opened early, suppuration usually ceases to extend, and the wound speedily contracts and heals. The cause of these formations it is not easy to determine. Often we have to blame—and that on good grounds—an accidental crowding of the ward, and an unhealthy season. Whatever the cause, the disease is both troublesome and formidable. With a view to prevention, the erysipelatous patient is tended carefully, during convalescence, and after; the state of the general secretions being specially regarded. Admission of pure air is most important; and, if need be, for the fulfilment of this indication, change of locality is enjoined. So soon as the swelling appears, opening should be in- stantly practised; and in the after-treatment, it is to be remembered that the part will soon shew an intolerance of fomentation, poultice, and other relaxing remedies. Constitutionally, there will be little need for antiplilogistics ; alteratives and tonics come in their stead. Since the chalybeate treatment of erysipelas has come into general use, such formations are both less frequent and less formidable. The tincture of the sesquichloride we believe to be the best preventive of the abscess, as well as the best tonic alterative when such suppiu'ation has occurred. Pycemia, or Purulent Poisoning. By this term is understood a peculiar and formidable constitutional disturbance, secondary to suppuration, and supposed to be dependent on the admixture of poisonous matter in the circulating blood—at all events connected with a specially depraved and unwholesome condition of that fluid. It changes colour, loses coagulating power, and the microscope detects an unusual quantity of white corpuscles. At one time it was very generally assumed that these were the corpuscles of pus, and that on the direct admixtiu'o of these with the blood the disease essentially depended—hence the name. But difficulties occur in connection Avith