FIBKOUS TUMOURS OF THE UTEIIUS. 1002 of pertbrmance. Tlio danger of some fluid from the cyst escaping, and finding its way into the peritoneal cavity, and the impossihility of clean- ing out the wound with the necessary care, are obvious objections to this mode of treatment. The statistics of ovarian operation give a mortality of about one death in every three cases, though some speak of a fatal result as occur- ring only in the proportion of one in seven. Its dangers, then, are very considerable. On the other hand, hopes of relief from ordinary treatment of the tumour cannot be sanguine. Most patients are carried off by the disease in less than foui' years. Very few have the good fortune to be ciu'ed, and only a small number live beyond the four years. But it will always be a difficult and anxious matter for the surgeon to propose that a woman suffering, it may be, very little from this disease, should subject herself to the risk of almost immediate death, in order to obtain the chance of getting rid of that which might possibly permit several years of comfortable existence. The question of the performance of this ope- ration, therefore, should not be decided so much upon general groimds, or on the statements of other operators, as by a careful consideration of all the circumstances in each particular case—favouring or forbidding its employment. The results as given by statistics are certainly not to be taken into account, as they seem to consist of the most heterogeneous materials ; containing, for example, cases where small non-adherent cysts in yoimg girls have been satisfactorily removed—cases where the bowels and the tumour were so inextricably incorporated, that large masses of the tumour had to be left behind—cases where the removal was practised carefully and skilfully—and cases where the iliac veins were torn, the bowel divided, and towels, placed in the cavity to check the bleeding, were left there, and the wound stitched up. Fibrous Tumours of the Uterus May be found in any part of the organ. They may be single, but more frequently there are several present together. They may vary in size, from a pea to a man's head. They rarely occur before the age of twenty, and are most frequently observed about the age of forty.* They do not prevent conception, but cause great risk of abortion during pregnancy, and in delivery may obstruct the advance of the child, also favom-ing hemorrhage and subsequent inflammatory accession. The tumours them- selves are liable to congestion, the inflammatory process, and suppura- tion; and in course of time, they may become calcified in whole or in part, forming the uterine calcidi of old authors. They may be developed in any part of the uterine wall; the nearer to the mucous membrane, the greater is the hypertrophy of the uterine tissue. When the tumour is situated near to the peritoneal or to the mucous surface of the uterus, it may be protruded from the wall of the organ in a polypoid form; and, the pedicle gradually'diminishing in size, the tumour may drop off into the peritoneal cavity in the one case, and in the other may be expelled per • vaginam. When the tumour is * Bayle states tliat in women above thirty-five years of age, fibrous tmuoiu-s are found in one out of every five.