CHAPTER XXVIL SUSPENDED ANIMATION. TfflS may result from a variety of causes; and according to tlie nature of these Avill the surgeon's duties vary, in his attempts at resuscitation. In the emergency, there is but little time for thought or deliberation, and it behoves the practitioner to be at all times ready, bearing about with him distinct ideas of the cause of threatened death, as well as of the most likely means to avert that calamity. 1. By Syncope ; from emotion, heat, bad air, or loss of blood. Tliis has been abeady considered, in its nature and treatment; the latter con- sisting mainly in attention to position, administering the ordinary stimuli, and, if need be, directly rousing the heart's action by epigastric friction or by galvanism, if an apparatus is at hand, or even by transfusion of blood, should hemorrhage be the cause. Eecumbency, with lowering of the head, and the admission of fresh, cool air, with cold water dashed on the ears and hands, usually suffices. 2. By Strangulation and Laryngeal obstruction. This acts destruc- tively to Hfe through the trachea, veins, and brain. By injury to the first, or by its occlusion, asphyxia is produced; by venous obstruction farther cerebral congestion results, and apoplexy may ensue; by concussion of the brain—in the case of a " drop "—more or less insensi- bility is at once established. And of these, the most important is the first. It is very seldom in hanging that displacement of the vertebrae takes place; only when the drop has been unusually great and violent. The symptoms of strangulation or laryngeal obstruction, as observed in animals, is as follows :—the lips and face become discoloured ; the mtiscles are convulsed; those of respiration act more and more feebly ; in less than two minutes they cease, the heart's action still maintaining the circulation for two or three minutes longer; and at length this, too, stops. Then death is complete, and recovery impossible. Treatment resolves itself into simple indications. When called to see a patient, who is found in an asphyxiated condition, make sure by digital examination of the throat that no foreign body is lodged, in the pharynx, larynx, or oesophagus. In cases of attempted suicide by hanging: 1. If the ligature is removed before the efforts of the diaphragm have ceased, ' all that you have to do is to watch the patient carefully; if natural respiration continue, leave him to himself; if it cease, supply the want by inflating the lungs artificially.' 2. And this applies to all cases of asphyxia—If the efforts of the diaphragm have already ceased, have recourse to artificial respiration without delay. There is no time to lose. In two or three minutes, after the last heave of the chest, the heart's action will have ceased, and then all hope is over. 3. In successful