303 NECROSIS. eoiTesponding to the opening in the periosteiun. In fracture, Mathout suppuration, ossification is begim by bone, is continued by periosteum, and where that is deficient is sustained by the surrounding parts,_ the connective tissue of which assumes periosteal character and function ; and consequently the incasement of bono, under such circumstances, is continuous But here there is no substitute for deficient periosteum; the surrounding soft parts have suppurated, and are themselves reduced to the condition of an aperture or canal for the discharge of matter. Tliis, however, is not a disadvantage. On the contrary, were deficiencies of periosteum invariably supplied by adventitious structure of similar capabUities, the cortical formation would also invariably be continuous ; purulent matter would be denied an out- let ; and all the pains and dangers of acutely accumu- lating, and deeply-seated pus, woidd inevitably ensue. As it is, deficiency of periosteum is not supplied ; and the cortical formation is at that point proportionally defective. A permanent aperture, termed Cloaca, results (Fig. 127); which communicates internally with the cavity which contains the sequestrum, and opens into the suppurated canal of the soft parts exteriorly, so proving of the greatest use in securing efficient discharge of purulent or other fluids. The external orifice of tliis discharging canal is usually callous, and of an elevated or pouting cha- racter. It is termed a Papilla; and in every case where necrosis is at all extensive, there are not one but several such purulent canals ; through the cloacse in connection with which, a probe may be made to impinge on the sequestrum. The position of these apertures, externally, in necrosis of the shafts of long bones, serves fre- quently, when several exist, to indicate the extent of the sequestrum; the most dependent being beyond the lower end of the sequestrum, the upper always a little below the upper extremity. Through these apertures, the condition of the dead portion may be from time to time ascertained; and so soon as it has become loose, it is through these apertures, enlarged if need be, that it is removed. When it has been discharged, the two portions of the new osseous formation coalesce; and so complete the construction of the dead bone's substitute. Hitherto the sequestrum, as a foreign substance, was interposed between; now the cortical frame, descending, comes ultimately to mingle the soft osseous granules of its internal aspect with those which are rising from the subjacent stratum of original bone. And so, somewhat as in chasm of the soft parts, the cavity, previously occupied by the sequestrum, is filled up; partly by continued formation of new matter, partly by mutual approach of the parts already formed. Suppuration ceases gradually; the cloacse, no longer useful, may slowly diminish, or even fill up—by new formation from their osseous margins, or by contraction of the cor- tical shell; the whole part becomes firmly consolidated ; and the inflam- Fig. 128. Necrosis of tibia. At a, the dead bone exposed. At h, h, the papilln? represented, rommunicating through cloacm with the sequestrum. Fig. 12S.