1039 OTHER VAKIETIES OF HERNIA. The other vaneties of Hernia. Ventral hernia is a protrusion at any part of tlie front and sides of the abdominal pariotes, except the navel and groins; the result of a giving way at some unusual point, in consequence of bruise, wound, abscess, or muscular rupture. Tliere are no peculiarities in the tumour ov its treatment; excepting that, as in most cases of the last mentioned variety of hernia, but few fascia3 need be expected to invest the sac. A Perineal hernia is said to exist, when bowel or omentum, with its sac, descends between the bladder and rectum, and presents itself as a swell- ing in the perineum. The term Vaginal is applied when, in the female, the tumour does not reach the perineum, but bulges into the vagina. Descent has also taken place through rupture at the fundus of the uterus. Tlie Diaphragmatic or Phrenic, and the Ischiatic forms of ; hernia—protrusions through the diaphragm and the ischiatic notch— i are fortunately rare. They do not admit of accurate diagnosis in life ; and are not amenable to surgical treatment, if strangulated—unless the history of the case hajDpen to be so unusually plain as to warrant in- cision. The Ohturatorial Hernia—projecting through the foramen ovale—may be both discovered and relieved. In one case, occurring in the practice of Roeser of Bartenstein, a painful elastic tumour over the foramen ovale was reduced by the simple taxis, with complete relief to all the symptoms of strangulated hernia. The Hernia Litrica, as noticed by M. Littre, is said to exist when the protruded viscus is a diverti- culum of bowel, not a portion of the normal caUbre of an intestine. The diverticulum may be congenital; a mere prolongation of bowel, con- sisting of all the normal coats. Or it may be of recent occurrence, formed by a protrusion of the mucous mem- brane of the intestine through its muscular coat, and consisting of the mucous and peritoneal coats alone. Both forms, the diverticuhm acqui- situm as well as the diverticulum congenitum, are liable to hernial pro- trusion ; the former found only at the crural aperture, and always of slow formation (Fig. 316). This form of diverticulum being made at the expense of the main bowel, the cahbre of the latter is narrowed thereby ; and the traction caused by hernial descent also changes the line of direction in the bowel, forming a sharp angle at the origin of the diverticulum. Above the narrowed and somewhat obstructed part, dila- tation takes place; and a train of unpleasant symptoms result, indepen- dently of strangulation—costiveness, cohcky pains, dyspepsia, flatulency, etc. The congenital form of diverticulum, on the other hand, may pro- trude without causing any such inconvenience. Strangulation occurring m either case is marked by the ordinary symptoms, follows the ordinary course, and requires the ordinary treatment. But, probably, the symp- toms will partake more sparingly of the signs of obstruction, than in ordinary cases—at least in the first instance. Fig. 317. Diverticuhim. Its protrusion constitutes the Hernia Litrica.