351 FORMS OF ULCERATION OF CARTILAGE. syniptonis, may be said practically to originate in one of two ways. It may folloAv on chronic scrofulous or gelatinous degeneration of the synovial membrane, or it may be the result of disease in the cancellated texture of the articulating extremities of the bones ; at first chronic, ulti- mately acute and rapid in its destructive progress. In the former case, there are at first the ordinary symptoms of the indolent scrofulous de- generation of the synovial membrane, specially characterized by swelling and stiffness of the articulation. When, however, the cartilage, as already described, becomes converted into a fibro-vascular granulation texture, like the synovial membrane, interposed between the bones, deep seated pain, especially severe at night, accompanied by spasmodic starting of the limb, supervenes. The swelling increases from effusion taking place into the joint; or, where the cavity of the joint has become obliterated by the previous gradual progress of the disease, from rapid cell formation. This change is attended by local inflammatory symptoms of an acute or sub- acute character. Su]3puration follows in one or more situations, and finds its way to the surface, often burrowing widely beneath the skin before it is evacuated. In the process of disorganization which follows, all the textures are more or less implicated, and with this the system suffers from fever of either an acute inflammatory or irritative type, which gradually, however, subsides into hectic. Should the articulating surfaces, during this change, have passed free of each other from spon- taneous displacement, the pain and irritation begin to abate; and the result, if the articulation is left to itself, will either be gradual exhaustion from hectic, or gradual diminution of the discharge, consolidation of the parts, and recovery of the patient with a shrunken, more or less useless, and distorted limb. When the morbid change in the cartilage is determined by disease commencing in the articulating extremities of the bones, the alteration in the affected cancelli is the same as already described as constituting the morbid anatomy of simple ostitis, scrofulous ostitis, and caries. When the cartilage, as well as the articular lamella on which it rests, has been destroyed by this ostitic change, the subjacent bone is exposed, and con- verted into medullary or granulation substance. Around this the cartilage is irregularly disintegrated, and through it a red papilla or vascular granur lation peeps, continuous with the surrounding cartilaginous structures, and with the transformed osseous substance beneath. The synovial mem- hrane, in the immediate vicinity, is often sympathetically involved, like I the conjunctiva around a cornea affected with acute ulcerative keratitis, and appears red, swoln, and pulpy—espe-cially in its plicse vasculosse ; and when the affection is progressing near the synovial margin, or the disease m the bone is rapidly and acutely advancing, the syno^^al membrane will I he observed plainly to be undergoing inflammatory change of structure. '] ilie parts most prone so to suffer from this form of disease of cartilage j are the inside of the head of the tibia and the corresponding points of I the condyles of the femur, the head of the humerus, and the acetabulum. ; Heahng of the ulcerating cartilage may occur in different ways, but in no case is there any reproduction of true cartilage. 1. In the super- cial and limited forms, the surface of the cartilage remains permanently I 'lepressed, and somewhat rough and villous; with the edges of the