DISLOCATIONS OF THE TARSUS. 1332 to be carefully adjusted, retention is to be maintained by the adaptation of suitable splints, and the case is to be treated as a compound dis- location of the ankle-joint. In cases where diffuse suppuration and slougliing have ensued in consequence of attempts to save everything without any operative interference, it may be necessary to resort to am- putation, either at the ankle or below the knee, according to the condition of the soft parts. In partial displacement, no operative interference is necessary ; but the parts, whether replacement be effected or not, require to be kept at rest by the use of suitable splints moulded to the leg and foot. In a case of partial dislocation, reduction was effected, upwards of a fortnight after the accident, by the help of chloroform, and subcutaneous section of resisting tendons. 2. The astragalus may be dislocated Daclcwards; becoming firmly wedged between the tendo AchiUis and the posterior surface of the tibia. The,bone is readily felt in its unnatural site; it is seen protuberant there ; and the end of the tibia is felt projecting in front. Eeduction, for obvious reasons, must be extremely difficult. In only one case, pro- bably, has the attempt ever proved successful, without chloroform—one which occurred to Mr. Listen.* 3. The astragalus has been displaced Ujpwards ; wedged between the tibia and fibula. But this accident is extremely rare. 4. Dislocation has taken place Outwards ; and it has also occurred Inwards. Such injuries are usually not only compound, but also compli- cated with fracture of one or other malleolus. They may be so severe as to demand immediate amputation at the ankle; or they may admit of replacement of the limb, in the hope of saving it, after the dislocated bone has been removed. II. TliG Os Calais and Astragalus, retaining their position, may be separated from the other bones of the Tarsus ; the anterior part of the foot becoming displaced inwards, as in Talipes Varus. Eeduction and retention are easy ; the former by extension and coaptation ; the latter by placing the limb on the double-inclined plane, and securing the foot firmly on the foot-board. III. The Cuneiform bones may sustain displacement. Of these, the internal is most likely to suffer. The bone projects inwards, and up- wards. Eeduction will be difficult; retention probably impossible. But, after a time, the limb may become little less useful than before, even though tbe dislocation remain unreduced. Dislocation of the Metatarsus. One or more of the metatarsal bones may be displaced upwards on the front of the tarsus ; the foot having undergone a severe wrench, as by a fall from horseback while the foot is retained in the stirrup. Under chloroform, the parts are easily reduced ; and no retentive means are necessary. Leecliing, with other antiphlogistics, wiU probably be re- quired, however ; such displacement not being likely to occur -without the infliction of much violence. * Lancet, Julj- 6, 1839.