MORBUS COXAllIUS. 1297 structioii of tho joint; iudicatod by tlie limb's shortening and distortion. By some, howevoi-, the symptomatic indications of the disease are pre- sumed to be related to three stages. The first stage corresponding to commencing ostitic change ; the second, to the inflammatory accession ; while, in tho third, the suppurative result and destruction of the articu- lation are included. The aifection is most common in the young, more especially between the ago of seven and the period of puberty, and in those of strumous habit. It may, or may not, be connected with some external injury as its exciting cause. The primary symptoms are deceptive. They are such as may attend on dentition in childhood, or on general disorder of health in adolescence; they may simulate rheumatism also , and they are every day mistaken for primary affection of the knee. Obscure pains are felt in the knee and thigh, and occasionally in the hip. The limb is weak, and its weak- ness is complained of—increasing with exercise; it is felt to be long as well as weak ; it is dragged, rather than moved, in walking ; in standing it is somewhat advanced, while but little weight is borne on it; and all these symptoms are most observable during fatigue consequent on exer- cise. An inspection, with the body naked from the waist, is essential. The knee, in which for some time great and almost constant pain has been complained of, may be quite of a normal appearance, and also tole- rant of manipulation. The affected limb is decidedly thinner, softer, and more shrunk in appearance than the sound one, and somewhat ad- vanced in position; the patient resting on the toes and ball of the foot, with the heel raised from the ground, and the whole limb rotated out- wards. To brmg the two heels together requires an effort, with suitable inclination of the pelvis ; and the effort usually causes aggravation of uneasiness. As in the analogous affection of the humerus the shoulder is flattened by wasting of the deltoid, so here is found a flattening of the hip by wasting of the glutei. The fold between the nates and thigh—deep and almost transverse in the normal state—is sloping, superficial, and sometimes almost effaced. Place the patient recumbent; straighten the spine, equalizing the position of the pelvis as much as possible—and elongation of the limb will be observed; the knees and heels by no means corresponding to each other. This elongation is only apparent, and is due to twisting of the si^ine and pelvis, so as to relax as much as possible the psoas and ihacus muscles, which tend to bear the articular surfaces against each other; as can easily be proved by measuring the sound and affected limbs, between two such fixed points as the anterior superior iliac spine, and the external malleolus. The foregoing symptoms, however, may almost all be found in the delicate adolescent, without disease of the hip. And a further examina- tion is necessary for diagnosis ; by jarring the joint suspected. Forcible abduction of the thigh causes pain in the hip; so does rotation inwards of the limb ; and a still more distinct sensation follows concussion, ap- plied either directly or indirectly—by striking the knee, or the sole of the foot, or the trochanter-major, smartly. There is also tenderness of the groin, and behind the trochanter. Thus far—the first stage—the disease is capable of complete cure ; the limb being left of its normal length, and restored to its normal form 4 0