689 OPACITIES OF THE COliNEA. changes. Cases, too, of Vcascular iiobula, like ground glass on the surface, occupying the upper half of the cornea, should always direct the atten- tion of the surgeon to the state of the conjunctiva of the upper lid ; as there the source of the change will probably be found in a granular condition, the appropriate treatment of which will in most instances admit of the cornea regaining in a very great measure its healthy state. Those cases, also, in which the changes in the cornea are a mere result of deeper seated mischief, as in glaucoma, must be recognised ; else the time when treatment of the disease could be employed with satisfactory results may be allowed to pass, and complete blindness be the result. In examining recruits, or soldiers for discharge as unfit for service, it should be remembered that there are forms of nebula, where the degree of opacity is slight, but where its general diffusion throughout the whole comea renders vision quite indistinct, from the amount of irregular re- ction which it produces. In treating opacities of the cornea, it is well to recollect that after the age of puberty any interference with an opacity which is unattended ith inflammatory symptoms is quite unnecessary. Washes, drops, 30wders, are unavailing ; and all that can be done is to prevent matters Decoming worse, by warding off inflammatory attacks, or checking these kvhen they occur. Even in adult life, the degree of opacity will always liminish to some extent spontaneously, leaving only the denser alterations |)f tissues as a permanent spot. And in early life, time and tonic treatment 11 do wonders in restoring an eye to some degree of usefulness, in s^hich the cornea has apparently undergone a well nigh hopeless amount deterioration from recent ulceration. If one eye is blind, while in le other the opacity is central and small, vision will be greatly improved |y habitual dilatation of the pupil by means of atropine ; if the opa- Ity be both central and large, the only hope of amendment is by the prmation of an artificial pupil. If the other eye, however, is sound, ich interference will only create a distressing confusion. Where vas- lar nebulae of both cornese deprive the patient of all sight, and when ler and milder plans of treatment have failed, it has been proposed to ^t up acute gonorrhoeal ophthalmia, as in the case of pterygium, or lus, in the hope that as the inflammatory process subsides, the cornea lay be restored in some measure to a useful condition. This desperate |d apparently doubtful remedy has, on trial in several cases, been lowed by such results as fully to justify its employment; enabling |.tients who had been virtually blind, to go about unassisted, to recog- se their friends, and even to read. It has been proposed to dissect off |acities of the cornea; but obviously success can never follow any such icedure; inasmuch as the loss of substance, caused by the dissection, 1st heal in the ordinary way, and, so healing, must produce at least equally opaque and extensive cicatrix. It is quite reasonable, how- -r, to operate in one class of cases; with a fair prospect of ultimate iiefit The opacity which follows injury of the cornea by sulphuric [d would seem, occasionally at least, to be a chemical incrustation on > cornea, rather than a vital change of and in its structure ; sulpho- ^teic acid is said to be produced, and adheres to the external layer of cornea; and this may be scraped away, ininiediatcly after receipt of 2 Y