404 SURGICAL TREATMENT. to interfere directly and boldly. In the time of CeLsus the tumour was opened by the knife ; and to restrain the friglitful liemorrhage, a heated cautery was thrust into the wound. Or, as practised by Eufus and An- tyllus, the aneurism was cut into and cleared out, the vessel having been previously secured by ligature above and below the aneurismal part. After introduction of the tourniquet by Morel in 1G74, the procedure became somewhat less formidable ; hemorrhage being restrained by pressure above until the artery had been secured, at least temporarily. Or, as was the case even so late as the days of Mr. Pott, finding these direct modes of operation very disastrous in their result, as might well have been anticipated, it was not unfrequently deemed expedient at once to amputate the limb above the aneurism—rather than encounter certainty of hemorrhage after deligation, and probabihty of bleeding along with certainty of exhausting suppuration after the cautery. But as the nature and treatment of disease became better understood, this department of practical surgery improved. About the middle of the eighteenth century, the operations for aneurism became less coarse in themselves, and more happy in their results. In 1740, Anel—doubtless having become aware that, for the establishment of cure, it is not essential that the sanguineous flow should be entirely arrested in the part—cut down above a traumatic aneurism at the bend of the arm, and, securing the artery immediately above the tumour, without opening the sac, effected a cure. It is to be remembered, however, that this was an example of accidental aneurism ; and that consequently the arterial coats, where tied, were not necessarily in a degenerated state, as they must ever be, more or less, in the imme- diate vicinity of aneurism wliich is idiopathic. For our illustrious countryman Jolin Hunter was reserved the merit of really improving the operation. He reasoning further on the fact, that complete arrest of the flow is not essential to cure, saw how this enabled him to seek a compara- tively healthy portion of the vessel on which to apply the Hgature ; one capable of plastic change, and not prone to ulceration. He saw that it was not imperatively incumbent on liim to tie the artery immediately above an idiopathic aneurism, where its coats may be expected to be specially diseased ; but that it was in his power to select a portion higher up— removed, perhaps, to the extent of several inches. Of this power of selection he did not fail to avail himself; and in 1785, in a case of popliteal aneurism, instead of securing the artery in the ham, he tied the femoral near the middle of its course. Although the practice proved at first unsuccessful—the mode of operation, not the rationale, being defec- tive—the soundness of the Hunterian theory stood unshaken ; and the subsequent experience of others, with operations better executed, obtained for it ample confirmation. The original want of practical success residted from the faulty mode in which the ligature was used. There existed in the profession an ex- cessive dread of injury to the arterial coats, by a small ligature tightly applied. It was feared that they would be cut through too soon, ere yet the canal had been consolidated ; and that the most serious hemorrhage would ensue. Accordingly, broad tapes were tied on ; and others were applied loosely, in reserve, to be tightened as circumstances might de- mand. In an over-anxiety to save the arterial issue, it was unduly de-