857 WOUNDS OF THE THROAT. tlie ordinary tost of tho tube being rightly placed will probably fail; air, in expiration, escaping by the tube in the oesophagus, as well as by the natural outlet. Throughout the whole cure, the state of respiration must be sedu- lously watched. And should threatening of suffocation intervene—as is not unlikely, due to some tracheal cause—and prove of such a nature as not to bo removed by freely opening up the wound, and throwing the head back over the pillow placed beliiiid the shoulders, tracheotomy is to be had recourse to unhesitatingly. Then the canula being retained in the tracheal wound, the transverse aperture may be broiight together, and treated so as to favour rapid union—there being no longer any risk from internal swelling or other change at that site. I have often thought, that in extensive transverse wounds of the neck, implicating the windpipe, however inflicted, tracheotomy may be regarded as expedient at an earlier period; that is, shortly after arrest of the hemorrhage, and partial approximation of the wound ; so soon, in fact, as the patient has rallied sufficiently to bear the immediate effects of the operation. For then we would have it in our power to place and maintain the whole track of the wound in perfect apposition, and perhaps to procure union almost by the first intention. So soon as the chasm had fairly closed, the canula might be withdrawn, and the ti-acheal opening cautiously and gradually shut. And thus, also, would we be more likely to avoid the occurrence of fistulous tendency in the suicidal wound; which, in the ordinary progress of cure, is not unlikely to prove troublesome. In performing the operation, it will be expedient to raise and steady the windpipe, by means of a hook fixed in the lower margin of the transverse wound. In those cases in wliich recovery has been delayed from the tedious heahng of the wound, there is a risk of the larynx becoming contracted in its caUbre, so as seriously to interfere with normal respiration; and all the more probably if a fistulous opening has become established by imperfect closure of the wound. Such cases are doubtless unpromising ; yet are capable of being brought to a prosperous issue. The contracted passage may be dilated by bougies passed from the mouth j and, the normal capacity of the larynx having been restored, the fistulous open- ing may be made raw, and approximated by suture. A successful case of this natm-o occurred in the practice of Mr. Liston.* This procedure IS, however, difficult, and may prove unsatisfactory. It should, there- fore, be the aim of the sui'geon to obtain early closure of the wound, and thus prevent the occurrence of laryngeal contraction. * Liston's Elements, p. 435. nous ; and he liad tlu-eatening of suffocation during his distin-hed sleep. These symp- toms were tlisregarded. He started up suddenly in the niglit, caught hold of the patient in the next bed, and fell down in a state of asphyxia, from which he could not be recovered. The cedematous swelling of the rima glottidis is remarkable ; beyond that, is seen the rounded opening betwixt the thyroid cartilage and the epi- glotti»-,which last is in a normal state."—Liston, Elements, p. 432.