FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 1308 there being no structure, after it has been produced, in which it may be sustained ; the synovial capsule is obviously barren in this respect. The fractured ends may be said to be steeped in an increased secretion of synovia. 3. Also the delinitivo callus, which, if uninterrupted, would alone achieve consolidation—as happens in other fractures—is ever liable to accident, by even slight movement x»f the parts. 4. The upper fragment, or head of the bone, nourished only through the round ligament—and vessels of the ligamentum reflexum, should any portion of it remain untorn—must bo of weak power, and ill able to execute the exalted nutritive action necessary for reparation. 5. The ago of the patient, and the atrophied condition of the bone itself, are obviously unfavourable to reunion. With such adverse complications, it is no wonder that examples of union in this fracture are most rare. And yet circumstances may occur, in vvliich that result may be attempted and expected, vnth. every reason- able prospect of success. When, for example, the patient is compara- tively young; when the shortening is slight, indicating but partial division of the periosteal investment; or when, besides this, there is absence of crepitus, indicating impaction ; when the patient joins heartily with the surgeon in the use of means calculated to maintain apposition, and to prevent all movement of the fragments ; and when neither become weary of the prolonged period of vigilance required for the definitive callus to consolidate. The ordinary result, however, is the formation of a false joint; the parts becoming accommodated to each other by absorp- tion, connected by new fibrous texture, and further restrained by a thickened state of the capsular ligament; the limb remaining deformed, shrunken, and comparatively powerless, yet admitting of tolerable useful- ness, with the aid of a stick or crutch. In the extremely old, fatal sinking is probable; under the shock of the injury, and the irritation of pain and confinement. In the last-named class of patients, the use of splints and bandaging for retention of the fragments is not expedient. Success cannot result; the annoyance will but aggravate the general disorder; and, not im- probably, sloughs will form at the points where the splint exerts its pressure. It is sufficient to arrange the limb comfortably on pillows, forming a double inclined plane, and by very gentle swathing or dehga- tion to restrain motion. In the more hopeful cases, the long splint is to be applied as in treatment of the following injury. II. Fracture external to the Ca^ysule, and above the Trochanter.— This is usually an impacted fracture ; the upper fragment being driven into the cancellated textures between the trochanters, and more or less firmly wedged there. In such circumstances, there is but little displace- ment ; crepitus, even, may be obscure ; and the power of the limb, both as to motion and the sustaining of Aveight, may be wonderfully preserved —continuity in the bone having been restored by the impaction, immedi- ately after it had been dissolved by the fracture. Not unfrequently, however, impaction is not so complete as this; and sometimes it neither does nor can occur, on account of comminution attending on the fracture ; and then the amount of displacement and shortening may be very considerable. This form of injury usually results from