TREATMENT OF COMPRESSION BY BLOOD. 612 does occur, to endeavour that it proceed slowly and calmly; or, if need be, by bleeding from the system, to reinduce the state of depression, and maintain it during a second period—the object being to afford time and opportunity for efHcient occlusion of the injured vessels by natural hemostatics. If too late, or otherwise unable, to prevent, we may yet hope to moderate and limit the extravasation. And this is to be effected by opposing reaction ; keeping the patient quiet, with the head elevated; applying cold to the head, face, and neck; interdicting all nuti-itive ingesta; taking blood from the system, as circumstances may require; and acting freely on the bowels by purgatives. Our object still is to have not only the general circulation quiet and gentle, but to have blood circulating within the cranium as sparingly and as calmly as is com- patible with such maintenance of the cerebral functions as is essential to life. Extravasation having ceased, we hope tliat in due time the symptoms of compression will begin to abate ; the brain accommodating itself to the compressing agent, and this latter beginning to diminish by absoip- tion. We ward off inflammatory symptoms, should they threaten ; andd maintain strict rest, quietude, and regimen; the last being very rigidly]! limited in regard to both fluids and solids, in order that there may be ad state of system not only unfavourable to inflammatory accession, but also favourable to absorption of the extravasated blood. Unfortunately, we have no direct means of assisting in the latter indication. "We lea too, from the observations of Mr. Prescott HcAvett and others, that sue! extravasations, occurring within the cavity of the arachnoid, tend to be transformed into false membranes, or to become encysted; and the membranous layers or cysts, remaining attached to the parietal arachnoid are permeated by an ample supply of blood-vessels. Hence they become permanent structures, and by their pressure produce changes in the for of the portion of brain with which tbey are in contact* A paramount indication undoubtedly is, removal of the compressi cause, the extravasation. This can be artificially effected only by oper tion ; by removing a portion of the cranium ; punctui'ing the membrane if need be; exposing the site of extravasation, and permitting—if M effecting—external discharge. "Were the operation of trephining capable always, or even often, of achieving this result, it would be held generally advisable in such cases. As it is, however, the profession much divided upon the question; some in favour of, others opposed the proceeding. Among the latter, we would beg to be enrolled; for the following reasons:—1. (Waiving the difficulties connected wit the diagnosis of extravasation as a cause of compression) It is difficult, not impossible, to determine at what part of the perixihery of the cranial cavity the extravasation has occurred; whether at the point struck, or fl the site of the contrecoup^ or at some other part—superiorly, or lateralllf or at the base. 2. It is equally difiicult, if not impossible, to determimj previous to the operation, at what part the extravasation has occurred i\ regards the diameter of the cranial cavity; whether between the menf branes on the surface of the brain, within its ventricles, or in its brokdj * Prescott Hewett, Med. Cliinu-g. Trans, vol. xxviii. p. 45. Lerich, Bull, de Soc. Anat. de Paris, t. x. p. 55. Quain, Trans. Path. Roo. T,ond. vol. vi. p. 8.