FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 1307 On oxaniiiiation—best conducted with the patient laid straight on liis hack—the following signs of the injuiy are observable :—There is always, ultimately, shortening of the limb, which may vary from half an inch to nearly two inches ; but immediately after the receipt of tlie accident there may be no apprecialDle shortening whatever, as just ex- plained. The toes are everted, and the eversion can be undone by the surgeon, though not without the infliction of mucli pain. Like the shortening, the eversion may at first bo but slight. In such cases impaction probably occurs, while the periosteal covering of the neck of the bone remains either in whole or in part untorn. The trochanter is higher and flatter than its fellow. Voluntary motion and power are greatly abridged ; forced motion is preternaturally extensive. On rota- tion of the limb, the hand placed over the trochanter, or on the groin, wiU usually perceive distinct crepitus; but only when extension has previously been made, so as to bring the fragments into apposition. The neck of the femur may, however, be fractured within the capsule, and no crepitus be distinguishable. In difficult cases, crepitus may usually be obtained by flexing the tliigh completely upon the abdomen, and effecting rotation and circumduction of the shaft of the bone. Such a procedure, however, is not to be unnecessarily resorted to ; being liable to lacerate the untorn periosteal tissues, which may still surround the neck of the bone. By gentle extension, the shortening may be undone, and the two heels brought together; but on ceasing to extend, muscular action soon restores the shortening as before, or may, by dis- engaging the broken surfaces from contact or impaction, suddenly render it much greater than at first. On rotating both thighs, the trochanters will be found " moving in the arcs of different circles; that on the injured side rolling on its own axis, while the healthy trochanter describes an arc of which the neck forms the radius." There is no great amount of swelling; as can readily be understood, when the nature of the injured parts is considered. It is possible that impaction may take place—the lower fragment being driven into the ujDper; in which case, shortening and eversion will be slight, and crepitus will be absent unless impaction be undone by extension. When inversion of the limb has been observed in cases of fracture of the neck of the femur, some have asserted that from this symptom alone the extra-capsular nature of the fracture might be diag- nosed. Inversion does, however, sometimes occur in intra-capsular fracture; and the only peculiarity observable in the dissection of these cases has been that the inferior fragment lay in front of the superior. Union of this fracture is quite possible, but very improbable— especially when the bones are not impacted. The following are the more important obstacles to such an occurrence :—1. There is an obvious difficulty in maintaining accurate apposition; restraining splints cannot be applied to the part itself, and it is difficult to maintain uniform ascendency over the retracting muscles. If the periosteal investment (ligamentum reflexum) remain partially entire, however, there may be little displacement, and proportionally slight shortening ; and, in such circumstances, a better issue may be looked for—as well as in the case of impaction. 2. There can be no provisional callus;