755 TUMOUKS OF THE UPPER JAW. ipected from spontaneous evacuation through tlie nasal aperture—as )metinie3 happens in the indolent collection of lluid. Polypus of the Antrum. The lining membrane of this cavity, like that of the nostrils, may Lve origin to polyi^ous formations. The occurrence of mucous polypi ere, however, is unknown. The fibrous polypus of the nostrils some- mes makes its way into the antrum, and developing itself in this ituation produces absorption of the anterior and external wall of the ivity. Here it may be felt through the mucous membrane of the outh, and has generally a rounded form, and possesses a doughy con- stency on manipulation. The medullary formation is not uncommon ; nstituting the origin of osteocephaloma, as affecting this bone. If indications exist of the presence of a fibrous polypus within the trum, it should be attacked by an incision through the mucous mem- ane, so as to expose the cavity from the mouth; without division the hp. The eradication of the morbid growth must be effected by zing and drawing firmly upon the tumour by means of strong volsella •ceps; while, by means of instruments introduced through the nose, origin should be simultaneously detached from that portion of the jal fossa from which it grows. Such cases, however, are rare. Tumours of the Superior Maxilla. Two forms of tumour are liable to occur in this bone; Osteosarcoma I Osteocephaloma. Tumours very different in themselves, and requir- very different treatment; the one capable of removal, at an advanced 3, and after a large or even enormous size has been attained : the Inot admitting of operative interference unless seen at an early of its development, and before it has extended beyond the limits upper maxilla, le osteosarcoma may reach a large size by external bulging, and by don of the bone; but, unless it degenerate in structure, though it roduce absorption of the osseous structures upon which it presses, ains limited within the confines of the superior maxilla; and con- itly, by removal of that bone alone, the whole of the diseased ion may be taken away. The swelling projects into the fauces, le mouth, and outwards on the cheek ; the main protuberance is in it named direction, interfering with articulation, mastication, and ; and the general health may be hale in all respects. When tion of the mucous membrane covering the tumour occurs, a thin discharge escapes by the mouth, seldom bloody, and seldom offen- The remedy is excision of the superior maxilla; and this, though re and somewhat difficult operation, may be fearlessly undertaken, ^ ' m the most advanced cases of this disease—^if genuine ; experience 1'' proved that the issue of such operations is almost invariably ■ 'ry. Such growths usually commence during adolescence from "Iveolar aspect of the maxilla, and extend upwards, occupying the *'*im, and latterly invading the orbital plate of the bone and its malax ■I