815 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE (ESOPHAGUS. call luoro urgeutly for our aid ; inasmuch as, unless removed forthwith, they threaten suffocation. The patient is seated firmly on a chair; the foro-finger is thrust determinedly into the fauces over the posterior molar teeth ; and its point is moved about in every direction, until either the foreign substance is discovered, or the surgeon is satisfied that there is no foreign body there. Mucli retching will be occasioned, in all probability, by which tlie foreign body may be dislodged and ejected ; but should this not occur, tliese efforts nuist be unheeded by the examiner, and endured by the patient; perquisition of the soft palate being got over as speedily as possible, the extremities of the nerves concerned in the production of vomiting being chiefly situated there. The presence and site of the im- pacted foreign body having been ascertained, it is seized by forceps, and gently ^Yithdra^vn. For pins and small bones in tlie arches of the velum, the ordinary dressing forceps, or merely the finger-nail, will suffice. For solid matter lodged lower down, longer forceps, gently curved at the ex- tremity, are more suitable. When the foreign body is lodged in the oesophagus, its existence in the upper part of the canal, if bulky, may be recognised by manipulation of the parts from without. Should this afford no evidence, its presence and situation are ascertained by the use of the bougie, probang, or bent forceps—passed carefully down, and moved gently. According to the nature of the substance and its site, either extraction or propulsion is practised. Extraction, if practicable, should be in all cases considered the preferable procedure, whatever the nature of the foreign body. If, however, the obstructing body be a piece of meat, or other bulky article of food, not likely to injure the canal in a forced passage, and capable of being subsequently digested in the stomach, it is the usual practice, especially when the foreign siabstance is situated Ioav down in the oesophagus, and beyond the reach of forceps, or when forceps are not at hand, to push it gently downwards by means of the probang. Though perfectly warrantable in such circumstances, and generally recommended when the foreign body can be displaced so easily, it is better, in the'first place, to attempt to effect its dislodgment and ejection by exciting efforts at vomiting. This can easily be produced, should the patient be unable to swallow an emetic, by tickling the fauces ; and there is never the slightest propriety in resorting, for this purpose, to the use of tobacco enemata, or the injection of a solution of tartar emetic into the veins. When, however, the circumstances are of an opposite character—as usually happens ; when we are satisfied that the oesophagus cannot fail to sustain fiirtlicr injury by attempts at propulsion, and that the stomach will be unable to make any satisfactory impression on the substance, should it be received there, and when we have the necessary instruments at hand, extraction should certainly be preferred. Long, curved forceps are the suitable instrument. For this purpose two pair of forceps are usually recommended ; one—the more generally useful—opening laterally (Fig. 293); the other (Fig. 294), o])ening in an antero-posterior direction. If introduced over the molar teeth, those with the blades opening laterally (Fig. 29.T) will generally be found quite eflicient in grasping a flat or narrow body, the axis of which is situated transversely across the canal.