SIMPLE ERYSIPELAS. 244 greater; appreciable by both eight and touch. Heat and pain are of a burning kind, and often intense. Palo dimples, by compression, are more distinct, and less transient; though still soon passing away, by reflux of circulating blood and displacement of serous product. At first, there is no actual tension; the swelling is slight, gradual, serous, and soft. Sometimes, however, when the process is especially acute—the case, perhaps, threatening to pass into the second form of the disease—swelling is fibrinous, considerable, and rapid ; and more or less tension occurs. Ordinarily, as the moderate process steadily advances, serous accumulation occurs superficially ; elevating the cuticle by vesica- tion—sometimes extensive and continuous, sometimes in the fom of numerous small blisters. On the cuticle giving way, spontaneously or by puncture, serous fluid escapes; usually with relief to the symptoms. But not unfrequently, similar serous accumulation occurs on the internal, as well as on the external aspect of the cutis, and occupies the subcu- taneous areolar tissue, which though originally free, now becomes in- volved in the morbid process ; and, if this accumulation be both copious and rapid, the swelling becomes tense as well as much increased, and the symptoms are aggravated accordingly. Very generally, a strong tendency is evinced by the mucous mem- branes of the respiratory and alimentary systems to sjnnpathise with the cutaneous surface. Not unfrequently, they seem to undergo, simultane- ously, a somewhat similar affection ; and this without metastasis. Like erythema, erysipelas may simply resolve. Or vesication occurs j either alone, or along with gradual accumulation of serum subcutaneously. The vesicles burst, or are artificially emptied ; the subcutaneous fluid is absorbed ; the symptoms abate; and the part quicldy regains its normal condition, by a process which may be stiU termed Eesolution—^by vesi- cation. Such recovery is not always uniform and general. It may be partial, and successive ; the part first attacked becoming first restored; while that more recently involved, in the line of extension, is yet ia the nascent and acute stage. Sometimes, however, the process does not recede, though vesication occur. The vesicle bursts, and the serum is discharged ; but simple de- siccation does not follow. A purulent discharge appears ; the inflamma- tory process having advanced to the third degree. And a similar forma- tion may occur on the internal aspect as well; either at the same time or subsequently ; causing subcutaneous abscess. Such abscess, however, is comparatively rare ; and only forms in the more intense, or neglected cases of simple erysipelas. It is neither early nor diffuse, as in the phlegmonous form ; but surrounded by more or less of the usual plastic product, and consequently amenable to ordinary treat- ment. Should incision be delayed, however, sloughing of integument is not unlikely to follow—the imperfect plastic limitation having given way, and so permitting an undermining of the tissue which has been itself acutely inflaming. But suppuration, in simple erysipelas, may be still more secondary. After the ordinary symptoms have satisfactorily subsided, and almost or altogether disappeared from the general surface affected, it may happen, in those especially of feeble constitution, that inflauimatory reaccession of a