BITES OF SEKPENTS. 487 Jiarmless in the lumian subject.* A ijerson bitten is apt to be much alarmed; and requires restoratives and re-assurance, accordingly. The part swells, and becomes painful and red ; undergoing a certain amount of the inflammatory process, but seldom attaining to the suppurative stage. The ordinary applications ai'e expedient; continuous cold, in the Pig. 205. first instance, to moderate and arrest the process, if possible ; failing which, fomentation and the other antiphlogistics. The virus is so weak as regards man, that precaution need hardly be taken against absorption, except in the very young and very old. The constitutional effects are shght, if any ; the local may be accounted for, almost, by the mechanical injury alone. * " Insects are the curse of tropical climates. The bete rouge lays the foundation of a tremendous ulcer. In a moment you are covered with ticks. Chigoes hury themselves in your flesh, and hatch a large colony of young chigoes in a few hours. They will not Live together ; but every chigoe sets up a separate ulcer, and has Ms own private portion of pus. Flies get entry into your mouth, into your eyes, into your nose; you eat flies, drink flies, and breathe flies. Lizards, cockroaches, and snakes get into the bed ; ants eat up the books ; scorpions sting you on the foot. Every- thing bites, stings, or bruises. Every second of youi- existence you are wounded by some piece of animal life that nobody has ever seen before, except Swammerdam and Meriam. An insect with eleven legs is swimming in your tea-cup ; a nondescript with nine wings is struggling in the small beer, or a caterpillar with several dozen eyes in his belly is hastening over the bread and butter ! All natui-e is alive ; and seems to be getting all her entomological hosts to eat you up, as you are standing, . out of your coat, waistcoat, and breeches. Such are the tropics. All this reconciles us to our dews, fogs, vapours, and di'izzles ; to our apothecaries rushing about mth gargles and tinctures; to our old British constitutional coughs, sore throats, and swelled faces, "—m Smith's Works, vol. ii. p. 147. Fig. 205. Head of the rattlesnake. From Cyclop, of Anat. and Physiology, a a. Poison gland, and its excretory duct; the latter cut open at its exti-emity ; e, ante- rior temporal muscle ; /, posterior temporal muscle ; g, digastiicus ; h, external pterygoid ; i, middle temporal; q, articulo-maxillary ligament, which joins the apo- neurotic capsule of the poison gland; r, the cervical angular muscle ; t, vertibro- mandibular muscle ; costo-mandibular muscle. Fig. 206. Poison fang magnified. From the same, ■p p, The pulp cavity of tooth*"*^ ' ^ ^' ^^"'^^ ^^^"^ 'ff'^^ifih the venom flows, tiiily on the outside of the