LITIIUIIIA. 1063 generally the form of rhombic prisms, but appears in various modifica- tions of tliis primary type ; the most usual is that in which the rhomboids or lozenges are very thick and rounded at the angles, so as to resemble, when placed upon their sides, thick cylinders, for which they may readily be mistaken, especially if grouped together in masses, as fre- quently occiu-s. The uric acid crystals are generally coloured, and have, under the microscope^ a peculiar deep amber tint, which is characteristic. AH tlie deposits of either free or combined uric acid are highly soluble in caustic potash ; in soda they are less so. The urate of ammonia, which forms the principal part of the amorphous deposit, is tolerably soluble in water at the temperature of the body ; and hence is seldom deposited except on cooling of the urine after excretion. In some cases, however, especially when the urine contains an excess of acid, the urate of ammonia is deposited within the bladder. The uric acid deposit, on the contrary, which is thrown down by the addition of almost any Fig. 322. acid to urine holding urate of ammonia in solution, is soluble only to a very slight extent in water, even with the aid of heat j and hence is a comparatively frequent deposit in the urine on emission, although much less common than the amorphous sediment as a result of cooling. Both deposits are decomposed by strong nitric acid with the aid of heat, and leave on evaporation a beautiful lake-coloured residue, which becomes purple in tint by the addition of ammonia (euroerythrin and pink pig- ment). Urine containing these sediments is usually rather high-coloured, of good or excessive specific gravity, highly acid, and often scanty. Not unfrequently the amorphous deposit is not the result of any derangement of the system, but merely arises from deficiency of drink or from copious perspiration. This is never the case with the uric acid or crystalline sediment. TJric deposits may attend the slightest derangement of health, or the Fig. 322. Crystals of uric acid.—From Donne.