36 ULCERATION. The mind is either greatly depressed, or excited by occasional deliriiun. The strength is much prostrated; hiccup sets in ; and then fatal collapse is imminent. IV.—Ulceration and Sloughing. Until lately, the Hunterian theory was generally received, that ulcera- tion, or the process whereby a breach of continuity is effected in a living solid, by the action of the part itself, was the exclusive work of the absorbents. Ulceration, however, may be more properly regarded as a molecular death; a gradual softening and disintegration of tissue; the dead frag- mentary detritus being separated and carried out of the system, mixed with the purulent, fibrinous, and serous products derived from the proli- feration of the connective tissue of the parts around, which are similarly, but less destructively, affected by the same inflammatory process. 1. We observe in every sore where ulceration is progressing, the minor stages of the inflammatory process ranged around in concentric series, with siippuration and softening occupying the central part; 2. Disintegration—or death and detachment in minute portions—com- mencing centrally; 3. Mixture with the pus formed in and around the dead and dying particles, and removal in one common discharge. "With this process, while in progress, absorption can have nothing to do. Ulceration may occur either in an unbroken part, or where there has been previously a breach of structure. The process is begun by inflam- matory change, which sooner or later reaches the suppurative result. It does not stop there, but advances a step fiirther. To the rapid prolifera- tion of the connective tissue-cells, with suppurative breaking up, is added molecular disintegration of the parts within which the pus corpuscles have formed. In fact, ulceration is only an aggravation and intensifica- tion of the rapid cell-formation with textural disruption and shedding of the corpuscles (pus) which in some degree accompanies acute suppuration. On an open surface, the debris mingles with the purulent discharge, and so escapes. On a surface previously unbroken, the discharge accu- mulates in the form of a pustule or abscess ; this breaks, its contents are evacuated, and the broken up surface is then disclosed beneath. The suppurated space of an acute and recent abscess extends by rapid pro- liferation of the connective tissue corpuscles; when opened, its walls constitute an ulcerated surface. So long as the high grade of the inflammatory process continues, ulcera- ation does not cease ; the greater the grade and extent of the former, and the less the amount of vital power in the part and system, Ihe more cer- tainly will the result of the inflammatory process be destructive, and there- fore the more rapid and extensive will be the progress of ulceration— ranging from the simjole or acitte to the phogedcenic or to the sloughing. On the other hand, ulceration of some portion of the part imdergoing the inflammatory process having once occurred, the morbid irritation may cease; and then the destructive result is followed by reparation. Now the connective tissue proliferates more slowly. While the superficial corpuscles, cut off from their nutriment, undergo fixtty degeneration, and are sheid as pus, those lying deeper, presenting the faintly granular appear-