1091 LITHOTOMY. carefully, v,^hile urine is escaping from the patient recumbent; repeating tliis search after injection of the bladder with tepid water. ^ Should such manipulation Ml to detect any lurking fragment, the patient may be relieved from treatment; much care being expedient for some con- siderable time, however, lest either renal or vesical disorder—especially the former—ensue. It is a question whether chloroform shonld be used or not in this operation; the objection being that the patient's feelings are useful to determine whether or not injury to the bladder's coats is avoided, and that in deep stnpor the urine is apt to dribble away involuntarily, perhaps emptying the bladder ere the operation is well begun. The former evil —the more serious—may be escaped by care and skill in handling the instruments, the latter by pressure of the fingers, or the use of a jugum penis. The advantages of ansesthesia are evident; especially in relaxing aU spasm, as weU as voluntary effort, which might impede manipulation. Lithotomy. This operation is very suitable to children. It is preferable to litho- " tripsy in adults when the stone is large, and when it consists of the oxalate of lime ; when the prostate is enlarged, and also when the bladder is intolerant of perquisition and distension. There are various modes of performance; the lateral and bilateral; the median ; the high operation, or supra-pubal; the recto-vesical. For ordinary cases, the lateral is much to be preferred. As early as the year 318 B.C., the ancients cut out stones, by incis- ing the perineum freely, the stone having been made prominent there by fingers introduced within the rectum ; and this operation—" cutting on the gripe"—continued in use till the sixteenth century. In 1525, Johannes de Eomanis, of Cremona, incised the bulb on a sound, pro- longing the wound into the membranous portion of the urethra ; the neck of the bladder he then dilated by male and female conductors, until the wound was deemed sufficiently wide for the introduction of forceps and removal of the stone. This operation—termed, from its complexity, the method by the " apparatus major," or the Marian method, from the name of an especially eloquent advocate of its superiority to all others— continued in vogue until 1697 ; productive, however, of only indifferent success. In that year, Fr^re Jacques appeared ; the advocate of inci- sion, as preferable to laceration ; at first cutting recklessly and ignorantly into the perineum, by an instrument very like a dagger; afterwards operating with a common scalpel, and incising the prostate and neck of the bladder with scientific precision—having specially studied anatomy tinder Duverney at Versailles, This was the foundation of the lateral method ; afterwards practised with much success by Eaw in Holland, and subsequently by Cheselden in this country—but not successfully by the latter surgeon, until he had recovered from mistakes into which he had been led, by the disreputably mysterious use which Eaw had made of the knowledge which he obtained from the honest Friar. We, shall describe the lateral operation as ordinarily performed by modern surgeons ; and more especially as we were taught it by the late