1096 LITHOTOMY. * Monthly Journal, Feb. 1848, p. 574. The stone may be encysted ; a part only projecting into the bladder. The forceps seizing the projection may bring the whole away ; if not it will be necessary—when the part is within reach of the finger's point to dilate the cyst's orifice slightly, by a probe-pointed bistoury. If the stone be firmly impacted, and not to be loosened safely by the bistoury's edge, the operator must have recourse to expectancy. The wound is occupied^ by a full-sized tube ; and, during the suppurative stage that follows, it is hoped that the textures may relax, and the stone be dis- engaged. Then it may be removed in the ordinary way, as has been experienced. Fortunately, however, such a complication is of rare occur- rence. On one occasion, in contending with an encysted or sacculated stone, it was found impossible to seize the stone otherwise than with the coats of the bladder in which it was held. Eetaining it thus by the forceps, bringing all down within reach of the finger, and with this pushing back the soft parts gently wliile the forceps yet kept their hold, the stone was extracted.* Should the calculus break and crumble under the forceps, the scoop will be found well adapted for removing the fragments. And in such cases, to make sure that nothing is left behind, it is well to wash out the bladder. This may be done in two ways; by means of an ordinary enema-syringe, the tube being introduced by the wound ; or, by means of a syringe and catheter—the latter introduced by the urethra—a powerful stream being made to issue by the wound, while the patient is placed in a sitting posture. The stone or stones—readily felt by the finger, forceps, or scoop— having been removed, the searcher is introduced—a metallic sound, with a large bulbous extremity; and by this each part of the bladder is care- fully explored, in order to make sure that no stone or other foreign body remains behind. It is also useful to examine the stones themselves; if one be removed, and found smooth, or hollowed, at one or more points, we may be tolerably certain that there is at least another in the bladder; if, on the contrary, a stone is found rough and unrubbed at all aspects, we may conclude that it is solitary. Then a gum-elastic tube is intro- duced, and retained by tapes fastened to a bandage round the belly; the tube being of length suflicient to admit of one extremity projecting from the outer wound, while the other is lodged in the bladder; and of dia- meter sufficient to afibrd a free escape to both blood and urine. The nates having been sponged and wiped, the patient is unbound and lifted into bed ; and is there placed with the shoulders elevated, so as to favour outward passage of mine, by sloping the track of the wound. The knees are elevated, and placed slightly apart—supported in the ham, if need be, by a pillow; and an oil-cloth and sponge are comfortably arranged for the reception of urine and protection of the bed-clothes. If much pain is complained ofj an anodyne is given ; and henbane is preferable to opium, being less likely to interfere unfavourably with secretion of urine. The regimen is antiphlogistic for some days; and plenty of diluents are given, so as to favour diuresis; barley water, for example, is taken ud libitum; and it may not be amiss to medicate it slightly