723 HYDEOPHTHALMIA. After removal of the lens, in any way, a convex glass requires to be adapted to the eye; in order fully to restore vision by compensating for the loss of adjusting power. Two pairs of glasses are usually required ; one for reading and working, the other for out-of-door use. This belongs to the department of the optician. Only let it be the surgeon's care not to permit the employment of spectacles, and resumption of the full exercise of the organ, until at least two months have elapsed after the operation—and more especially if that operation have been by extraction ; for not until then will the eye be safe from the risk of inflammatory accession. Operations on the. Opaque Capsule.—If after removal of the lens, by operation, the capsule become opaque, and, occupying the pupil, obstruct vision, or filmy threads stretch across its centre—these may be got rid of in one of two ways. They may be extracted through a small aper- ture in the cornea, by the canula forceps. Or they may be crucially divided by the needle, or by means of two needles ; and the flaps, or thread-like films, shrinking from the centre, then leave the pupil patent and sulficiently free to admit of distinct vision. The latter plan, by means of needles, is generally the best suited for selection ; but in rare cases, where a portion of the lens' substance re- mains persistently in the centre of the pupil, attached to shreds of cap- sule, the forceps alone afibrd a possibility of efiecting its removal Dislocation of the Lens.—This may occur as a result of injury, the lens either being displaced partially or completely. In the former in- stance, rupture of some part of the suspensory ligament seems to have ocsurred; in the latter, the capsule is completely torn, and the lens may then be seen as an opaque object lying in the anterior chamber, or beneath the conjunctiva, having emerged through an aperture in the sclerotic ; or it may even have escaped altogether, along with some portion of the vitreous humour. Such displacements, partial and complete, within the iobe, have been met with where they were not referrible to any external ijury. Violent sneezing or coughing has been supposed to have given ise to this result. In all such circumstances the lens must be considered a foreign body ; and when nearly in situ, or in front of the iris, or ubconjunctivally situated, should be removed. Affections of the Humours of the Eye, Bydrophthalmia.—Dropsy of the eye may depend on excess of the queous humour, of the vitreous humour, or of both. We have already seen this condition to be the result of inflammatory hanges in the sclerotic, choroid, iris, and ciliary body. In such cases he form of the globe may be changed—either regularly, the bluish-black clerotic projecting between the recti tendons—or partially, a cluster of ape-like prominences protruding from some part of the sclerotic margin, e symptoms are those already narrated as characteristic of glaucoma, cute and chronic. In the former, iridectomy is indicated ; in the latter, alUation alone is possible, by evacuation of the redundant fluid—through uncture of the cornea or of the sclerotic, or by incision of the former exture. Sometimes the progress of the disease may be delayed, if not