SIMPLE ERYSIPELAS. 245 more iutenso and circumscribed character occurs, either iu some ueighbour- ing locality, or at one or more points of the part originally attacked. In erysipelas of the face, for instance, the lower eyelids often thus suffer. The returned process is acute; suppuration is early and copious; and, in the course of but a few hours, a considerable abscess may have formed. It is imder such circumstances, that sloughing of the integument is most especially probable ; if aa evacuating incision be delayed. The ordinary exciting Cause of simple erysipelas is external injury ; often slight; applied duiing a disordered state of system, favourable to inflammatory accession. In most cases, therefore, constitutional symp- toms may be said to precede the local. But the antecedents are not inflammatory; they are either simply febrile, or, more frequently, those of stomachic and bihary derangement j foul tongue, bitter taste in the mouth, headache, tendency to shiver, thick turbid urine, sickness and bihous vomiting, etc. On occurrence of the local change, the general disorder, as usual, assumes more or less of the inflammatory type; then gradually subsiding, according as the local disease and its constitutional predisposing cause yield to suitable treatment. When the former is comparatively sHght, the antecedent constitutional disorder is often re- Heved by its appearance; and can scarcely be said, at all, to acquire the inflammatory type. In some few cases, the cause would seem to be chiefly local. Then there are no precursory general symptoms ; the constitutional disorder is secondary, and of the ordinary inflammatory character. The light and gentle modern treatment of wounds, being opposed to inflammatory accession, is beneficial; not only in favouring speedy reunion, but also by avoiding the risk of erysipelas. Often, the state of the atmosphere seems to exert a powerfully pre- disposing influence in favour of the accession of this disease. And, hence, we not unfrequently find it assuming an epidemic form during spring and autumn; when atmospheric vicissitudes most prevail. When such is the case, we also find the constitutional symptoms, whether pri- mary or secondary, tending to shew very plainly the asthenic character j more especially as the majority of those attacked are of already weakened Irames, by dissipation, poverty, or previous disease. Habitual exposure to heat, as in cooks and furnace-men, predisposes to erysipelas ; by occasioning frequent sanguineous determination to the surface. And frequent irritation of the sldn, by friction or otherwise, lias a similar effect; as in sailors, by the rubbing of hard canvas trousers, often satm-ated Avith the briny element of their vocation. Exposure to '•"Id, by its reactive effect, may predispose to erysipelas ; in those parts i liiefly impHcated—the hands and face; as in coachmen. But it is to remembered, that in such cases, as well as in those of habitual ex- I'osure to heat, other causes may be in operation, especially in the lower ranks ; namely, habits of intemperance. When erysipelas has once occurred, both part and patient remain liable to its return, from the application of a comparatively slight cause ; and are to be guarded accordingly. Many persons, particularly females, are the subjects of regular periodical attacks; usually slight. And, though very amenable to the usual treatment, these are not to be rashly