1274 INVERSION OF THE UTEUUS. irrigating tlioin iinincdiatoly and abunJantly witli dilute acetic acid strongly injected. Loucorrlioeal discharge may como from the os uteri, and be due to some diseased condition of the follicles of the cervical cavity or uterine interior j in some instances, again, prodnced by partial retention of the placental or other structure of an abortion, and in every case remaining so long as such causes continue to exist. The sponge-tent should be used in all cases when the cause of the discharge is with difficulty diagnosed; both for the purpose of accurate examination, and also in the way of treatment, by affording a free escape for the secretions. Injections of chloride of zinc, and the application of nitrate of silver to the cervical or uterine cavity, by means of a porte-caustique, will frequently be found useful Inversion of the Uterus Is the turning of the 'organ inside out; aiid it may happen in various degrees. It has been observed to occur idiopatliically even in the virgin; and in a minor degree is probably a not unfrequent concomitant of polypus springing from the body or fundus of the womb. But the great majority of cases occur soon after delivery, in consequence of improper treatment after the birth of the child ; and occasionally the acci- dent haj)pens spontaneously at this time. Into these details this is not the place to enter. It is sufficient to state that if the organ be not re- duced very soon after displacement has occurred, it will speedily become irreducible. If death do not quickly follow, the case becomes one of chronic inversion, which, inducing as it does large losses of blood, and exhausting discharge, with rectal and vesical irritation, is the cause of constitutional disorder so serious as to suggest the propriety of com- pletely removing the inverted organ. The statistics of the oj)eration are not sufficient to found a decided opinion upon; but they are encouraging, when we consider the gravity of the complaint. The surgeon has to decide whether his patient's best chance lies in toleratmg the disease and combating its effects, or in submitting to the risk of operation. On the one side, there is a grave disorder which frequently proves fatal, by exhausting the patient—if not more directly; and on the other, we have the favourable experience of numerous surgeons who have practised extir- pation of the part. It is sometimes difficult to diagnose this affection from polj^us ; but in general it can be made out with great certainty. In inversion, wo observe the absence of the body of the uterus from its natural position ; a state of matters as easy to determine in the thin and relaxed female, as it is difficult under the reverse condition. There is a tumour in the vagina, sensible or even tender, and the handling of which is liable to induce siclmess ; it is roughish on the surface, dark in colour, easily made to bleed, regularly rounded in form, and with the base larger than any other part; or only moderately constricted, by the cervix ; having little mobility; and occasionally, if prolapsed, showing the openings of the Fallopian tubes, into which a stilet may bo introduced. If the finger is passed above the inverted parts, it first reaches the cervix, en- circling the base of the tumour; and the finger or bougie introduced