ULCERATION. 37 ance of the so-called exudation corpuscles, and lying closely grouped togetlier, with a little interceUular substance interspersed, constitute the granulations which cover the surface of a healthy healing sore (Figs. 12 and 13). In other cases inflammatory change may remain, in a subdued form ; and then ulceration advances stealthily and slowly, and is said to be of the Chronic type. The more active the ulcerative process and its accompanying disin- tegration, tlie less laudable is the purulent discharge j thin, acrid, not unfrequently bloody—sometimes pultaceous, because more or less impreg- nated with the softened dehris of texture. When, on the contrary, in cases where a failure of the powers of life occurs, the affection not only subsides from the inflammatory standard, but becomes insufficient even for the work of repair, the discharge is almost entirely serous, contain- ing few or no corpuscular elements. Certain tissues are more prone to ulceration than others. Skin, mucous membrane, and areolar tissue, are peculiarly liable to fall before it; while the vascular, nervous, and fibrous tissues resist it stoutly. Often advantage is derived from this ; sometimes evil. The comparative immunity of the nervous and vascular tissues is plainly beneficial And, in like manner, it is often fortunate that important parts are protected by compact fibrous expansions, which are slow in being involved in and broken up by the cell proliferation of advancing suppuration. But when the purulent collection is bound down by a fibrous layer, then mischief is likely to accrue; inasmuch as the firm fibrous tissue remains unsoftened, and resists the natui-al tendency of the pus outwards—by the proliferating disruption of the ultimate corpuscles of intervening texture—and deep and important parts suffer the more by the continuance in them of the irritation with destructive results. The Causes of ulceration are the same as those of the inflammatory process. Whatever favours the occurrence and continuance of the highest (or destructive) grades of this, and whatever is unfavourable to due main- tenance of vital power in the part, whereby the morbid changes in the nutrition of the connective tissue cells might be resisted or controlled, is a cause of ulceration. Ulceration is often attended by marked constitutional symptoms. If acute, there is febrile disturbance of the inflammatory type. If chronic and tedious, with a profusion of discharge, hectic may ensue. If phagedenic, irritative fever exists ; often of a grave character. The sloughing sore is not unfrequently accompanied by typhoid symptoms. Loss of substance may be caused otherwise than by ulceration. It may be the result of mere absorption, interstitial or continuous ; it is then a gradual process, not necessarily dependent on inflammatory change, and unaccompanied by suppuration. In such cases cell-proliferation is either diminished below the natural standard, or where it occurs, fatty degenera- tion takes place, so that the ceU-membrane disappears, and rapid absorp- tion, with complete removal, ensues. Sloughing. Death of some portion of the part implicated in the inflammatory