DISSECTION WOUNDS. 482 in their functions, to an equal degree. On the contrary, it is found that certain tissues suffer in an especial manner ; the nervous, pre- eminently. AVTien a virus has been introduced into the system, and is not speedily thereafter extruded by elimination, it has been supposed that a process takes place in the blood, somewhat analogous to fermentation, and hence termed Zymosis; whereby the whole circulating fluid is deteriorated, and the poison at the same time multiplied, perhaps to a great extent. And, according to the poison, this process varies much as to the time which is requisite for its completion. Some poisons, of much virulence, produce their deleterious, and per- haps fatal, effects very speedily—so soon as introduced by the blood into the system; as happens in the bites of the most venomous snakes. Others, again, do not exhibit their results until the process of zymosis has been tardily completed ; as in hydrophobia. A third class of poisons—the syphilitic, for example—seem to have a doubly zymotic character. At first, the part is inoculated; and there the poison accumulates, by zymosis; forming the characteristic sore. Thence, too, the system becomes contaminated, through absorption; and in the blood, or organs by which it is prepared, a second, or general zymotic process is effected, whence the secondary symptoms are produced The local effect of some inoculated poisons is to produce an intense but asthenic inflammatory process in the injured parts; running rapidly on to diffuse infiltration of unhealthy pus, spreading fast and far, accom- panied with much swelling and livid discoloration, and often ending soon in gangrene. Often there is a further compHcation by inflammatory affection of the lymphatics and veins. And, altogether, a state of matters is established which was formerly not inaptly termed Cellulitis Venenata. Gangrene having ceased, and sloughs separated, a deep, troublesome, unhealthy sore remains. Poisoned Wounds hy Dissection. Here the deleterious virus may be animal; engendered in the body previous to death, and as yet not altered by decomposition ; as putrefac- tion advances, its virulence seems to be destroyed. This form is en- countered in the dissection of females who have died from puerperal disease, for example; and inoculation with such a poison is a very formidable accident. Or the virus is the result of ordinary putrescence; and the inoculation of this is an infinitely more common occurrence. In either case the injurious consequences are manifested both in the part and in the system. I. Local.—These, again, are either simple or severe. 1. Simple. A part is punctured, usually the finger ; by a scalpel, needle, hook, saw, or projection of bone. The more ragged the puncture, and the less the bleeding from it, the more likely is the virus to lay hold of the part and be absorbed. After some hours the inflammatory process sets in and a pustule forms at or near the puncture. The pustule gives way, discharg- ing a thin, unhealthy, puriforin fluid, and degenerates into an acute and