286 ABSCESS OP BONE. racter. According to the site, either tlie general surface is approached, and the cheesy debris, with minute fragments of bony spicula and pus, thence discharged; or a neighbouring articular cavity is opened into, and by such irruption grave inflammatory mischief is excited in it. The symptoms are, first, uneasiness and weight, rather than pain, deeply seated in the bone, increased somewhat by pressure and consider- ably by motion; and occurring in a patient of an obviously sti'umous habit. Enlargement of the bone then takes place at that part, with increase of the uneasy sensations; the superimposed soft parts become oedematous, and the skin assumes a bluish colour. On occurrence of the suppurative crisis, enlargement becomes more rapid ; pain increases, but yet is comparatively dull; shivering takes place, and the system there- after sympathises more or less. When the surface is approached, erysi- pelatous redness, fluctuation, and pointing may present themselves, unless incision be premised ; and, an opening having formed, the usual cha- racters of the scrofulous sore are exhibited, with the addition of this disease of bone at the bottom of the cavity. When, on the other hand, an. articulation is opened into, violent aggravation of both local and con- stitutional symptoms follows ; as will be afterwards described. Sometimes, but very rarely, the cheesy matter, instead of undergoing inflammatory degeneration, may become changed into a mass of earthy matter; as more frequently happens to tubercle in the lungs. Treatment should be mainly prophylactic. By rest, fomentation, and attention to the general health at first, it is our object to limit chronic inflammatory change, and prevent its suppuration. Leeching, or other antiphlogistics, injure the system; and counter-irritants, of any high grade, in addition to a similarly evil effect, often seem to hurry onward the local disease. The best remedies are general hygiene, with sea-air, cod-liver oil, and chalybeates ; the iodides, also, being sometimes well borne. When suppuration has occurred, we have little or no power of controlling the untoward progress. All that we can do is to evacuate matter by incision, so soon as its presence has been detected—seldom until it has appeared in some quantity in the soft tissues; mitigating, meanwhile, as we best may, both local and general symptoms, as they arise. When, under scrofulous disease, bone has been destroyed to any considerable extent, reproduction seldom if ever occurs. And hence, in scrofulous loss of substance, so common in the phalanges of the fingers in young people, shortening of the fingers inevitably results ; proportioned to the amount of bone destroyed. General Suppuration of Bone.—The abscess is neither external nor internal, but . both, pervading the whole bone, and invariably acute ; the result of intense general ostitis. The bone so aflPected dies, more or less extensively ; and is bathed in a profuse secretion of pus, Avhich not only burrows under the periosteum, but lodges also in the general soft parts, rapidly making its way to the surface. In fact, the case is one of acute necrosis. The ordinary symptoms are—shivering ; violent, deep-seated pain, constant, and increasing ; great SAvelling of the limb, obviously of in- flammatory origin ; redness of the integument, as if erysipelatous;