129 PECULIAEITIES OF ULCERS. part is studded with numerous small sores; and the skin and areolar tissue are at the same time hypertrophied. The sldn is hard too ; giving so far an indolent character to the ulceration. A thm, foetid, unhealthy discharge oozes away; and sometimes burrows deeply; but there is little inter-co'inmunication of the sores. From time to time fresh inflammatory attacks may occur, causing abscesses, with rapid extension of the sores, which are then prone to assume the characters of sloughing-phagedoena. By and by the nails drop off; and the matrix ulcerates. The phalanges become cai-ious ; and ultimately the metatarsal bones are similarly involved. The OS calcis often suffers at an early period. Pain is always consider- able ; and the system is weak and miserable. Sometimes the young are affected; more frequently those of middle life. The disease is but little amenable to treatment. In the less advanced cases, rest, bandaging, and the more powerful alteratives, both local and constitutional, may effect cicatrization. But the part is prone to relapse. In many cases, amputation is ultimately required, 6. The Vicarious Ulcer.—Sometimes sores may be said to be of this nature. In females, for example, ulcers may form on the leg, or else- where, obviously connected with the menstrual secretion ; becoming- active, enlarging, and emitting a profuse discharge—sometimes sangui- nolent—wliile the menstrual flux is, or should be, in progress ; contract- ing, becoming dtdl, comparatively dry, and perhaps partially cicatrizing, during the intervals. Sometimes, on the other hand, the conditions are precisely the reverse ; the sore healing, and remaining healed, so long as menstrual matters are normal, but continuing doggedly open during the period of amenorrhoea. Such sores, it is plain, can be attacked with safety and propriety only through the uterus. The functions of that organ must, in the first instance, be duly restored. Then, and not till then, need our attention be directed to the obtaining of cicatrization. "With the uterine system in error, all local applications will be of but little avail; whereas, uterine health having been restored, the sore will often heal, and that rapidly, without any local treatment whatever. 7. The Constitutional Ulcer.—When a sore has existed for many years ; almost stationary, or only varying with obvious changes in the system; tending to inflammatory extension, diuring constitutional disorder; contracting again, when this subsides ; yet never approacliing to complete cicatrization, without ill health ensuing ; and this again relieved by re- establishment of the sore :—when the gouty diathesis is strongly marked, and its alternations are plainly connected with an ulcer's varying state :— when the patient is advanced in years, has been in hot climates, and may without injustice be termed a hon-vivant:—when an obvious relation exists between the sore and an affection of some internal organ, such as Fig. 33. The foot so affected, a, the toes, much altered ; h, the outer side of the foot, in some parts shewing cicatrices ; c, the line of amputation, at the ankle ; d, the astragahis. The swelling is often much gi-cater than here represented. May this bo termed Podelkoina?—ttoSos eX/cos—ulcer of the foot. K d c b a Fig. 33.