980 CHRONIC ABSCESS OF THE MAMMA. Galactirrhcea.—By this term is understood a persistent and excessive secretion of milk ; whereby emaciation, debility, and even liectic, may be induced. To arrest and remove this condition, iodine given internally seems to possess almost a specific power ; suckling being of course de- sisted from, and the uterine functions restored. Chronic Abscess. Chronic abscess is not unfrequently found of a somewhat peculiar character in connection with this gland; it is usually single, varying in size from a pigeon's to a small hen's egg. The abscess-sac consists of a thin firm cyst, containing a thin, or sometimes a thick creamy-looking pus ; existing for months or years, and enlarging slowly if at all; situate sometimes deeply in the gland, more frequently beneath it; firm, be- cause tense, to the touch ; and sometimes closely simulating a solid tumour. To avoid such mistake, the gland should be carefully steadied with one hand, while the swelling is manipulated with the other. The smooth oval outline of the sac, the firm connection be- tween it and the surrounding parts, the existence of fluctuation, more or less obscurely perceived, and the absence of pain, should serve to distinguish it from either a fibrous tumour or scirrhus of the breast; with the latter of which, when the axillary glands are swoln, it is peculiarly liable to be confounded. If still in doubt, before condemning the patient to an operation, an exploratory puncture should be made with a trocar and canula, or by means of the knife. It may be treated either by sub- integumental or by direct puncture, or by injecting the tincture of iodine when the contents are thin and whey-like. ^^Hien opened, the cavity should be filled with lint till acute suppuration becomes esta- blished ; and after the local and constitutional disturbance has subsided, every care should be taken to prevent healing of the external aperture until the abscess-sac has completely cicatrized. Lacteal Tumour. One or more of the lacteal tubes are liable to distension, by occlusion of their orifices; giving rise to a swelling analogous to other cystic for- mations. The contents are miLcy or creamy during lactation; at other times serous and fluid, or caseous and solid—or partly so. The swelling has a fluctuating feeling on manipulation, and resembles, except that it is larger, a simple cyst, sometimes attaining to the size of a large apple or orange. In other cases it extends, radius-like, from the nipple outwards; and may even be of a conical form, the apex towards the centre. Treat- ment is by puncture, near the nipple; keeping the opening pervious. Should inflammatory change take place, inducing obliteration, the occur- rence need not be greatly deplored. Sometimes abscess forms; requir- ing the ordinary treatment. And sometimes this simple morbid con- dition proves the precursor of inveterate carcinoma in the gland.