742 EPISTAXIS. bably be attended with hazardous consequences. Then—but not till tlien—we endeavour to prevent continuance. The patient's head is elp. vated ; and cold is applied to the nose, forehead, and back of the neck All stimuli are forbidden, and absolute rest and quietude enjoined. This treatment failing, astringents may be taken into the nostril, and applied to the bleeding surface, by injection—as Ruspini's styptic, a solution of zinc, alum, or perchlorido of iron, or turpentine—dilute, or in the form o! snuff—powdered gall nuts, tannin, matico, etc. And this method of arre.-^i may be assisted by obstruction of the anterior nares; either by com- pression, or by stuffing the cavity firmly with lint, after the styptic has been sufficiently applied. Lately, it has been proposed to elevate tht arm, or arms, and to retain them raised above the head; and certainly this proceeding would seem occasionally to contribute, at least, towards the successful result; perhaps in consequence of greater power haixi'^ required to propel the arterial blood upwards in the arm, and less conse- quently being expended on the carotid circulation—as the originator ol the practice,* Dr. Negrier, imagines; or perhaps in consequence of thi- increased facility of venous return in the subclavian vein " hurrying the return-blood in the jugulars, and thus deriving from the bleeding vessels of the nose." When such means fail, and the continuance of the bleeding, with the actual loss of blood, or the feeble state of the patient, demands impera- tively that it shall be arrested, it is necessary to plug the nares, both anteriorly and posteriorly. A long stout ligature is passed through the nostrils into the mouth by means of a common probe, curved into a semi- circle, threaded with the cord, and passed along the nostril till it is felt in the fauces, whence it is withdrawn along with the ligature by means ol dressing forceps; or, as some prefer, by a flexible bougie, or by a loop ol wire or catgut, or by a springed instrument made for the express purpose, the ligature is conveyed into the mouth, and when laid hold of there, the instrument is again withdrawn through the nostril. To the middle of this ligature, a portion of sponge or a dossil of lint, about the size ol the distal phalanx of the thumb, is attached—that being usually of suffi- cient size to occlude the posterior opening of the nares ; and by pulling the nasal extremity of the ligature, the plug is firmly impacted; the extremity of the oral portion of the ligature remaining still pendent froE the mouth. The anterior nostril is then fiUed with bnt, pushed fimilj from the front. After three or four days have elapsed, the apparatus i; removed, gently. The anterior plug is withdrawn by means of forceps the posterior is extracted by pulling the oral extremity of the hgature— previous dislodgment, if need be, being efiected by the cautious pusluu! of a probe passed through the nostril. Sometimes it is necessary to pi"! both nostrils; but, generally, the hemorrhage proceeds from one only The posterior plug, if large enough, completely occupies the whole of th' posterior nares, so that only the anterior nostril requires fm-ther pluggtn? Constitutional treatment should not be forgotten; more especially ' there is reason to suppose that a hemorrhagic tendency exists in tn system. Solution of the pernitrate of iron, in frequently repeated doM- constitutes the most suitable medicine in such cases. * Arcliives Geiierales de Medecine, June 1842.