1356 AMPUTATION OF THE THUMB. wards, disarticulation is effected with the point of the knife. And then, the blade liaving been placed behind the base of the bone, a suit- able flap is formed oji the outer side, by bringing the blade downwards and outwards, till it emerges a little below the metacarpal articulation. Hemorrhage having been arrested, the flap is accurately adjusted to the raAv metacarpal surface, and retained in the usual way. Or the flap may be made in the first instance ; by transfixing at the carpal articulation, and carrying the knife downwards and outwards, as before ; or by marking out the flap with the knife's point, and dissect- ing it up—cutting from without inwards. The great objections to this plan of operation are, first, the interference it necessitates with the soft parts of the palm; and, second, the risk of sloughing of the narrow flap, so formed, which possesses little else than a cutaneous connection at its base. The fijigers are taken with the metacarpal bones; for the former be- come useless appendages, when deprived of their support. If in amputat- ing a-finger and its metacarpal bone, the corresponding carpal surface be found in a carious state, the diseased parts may be removed by means of a gouge ; and the progress of cure may prove most satisfactory. Disease or injury of all the metacarpal bones of the fingers, so long as the thumb is intact and a sufficiency of soft parts remain to form a stump, does not warrant removal of the whole hand. The result from amputation of the affected parts only, even when a thumb alone remains, is infinitely more serviceable than that which follows complete mutilation; and when a portion of one finger—it makes no matter which—with its metacarpal bone, is preserved, the claw-like member is capable of an education for various occupations, requiring the greatest skill and accuracy of manipulation. When the distal part, only, of a metacarpal bone is affected, disarti- culation at the carpus is not necessary ; but section of the bone is made in its shaft, by means of the cutting-pliers. The knife is entered on the dorsal aspect, at the point where section is to be made, and is carried down obliquely on either side, as in amputation of the fijiger only; but without passing the knife so deeply as to open the articulation. Then, by dissection, the diseased portion of the bone is isolated; care being taken to leave the palm entire. Amputation of the Tliumb. The phalanges of the thumb are removed in the same way as the phalanges of the fingers. But every effort should be made to avoid the necessity of resorting to such an operation. Amputation of the Phalanges, with the Metacarpal Bone, may be effected in the same way as removal of the forefinger and its metacarpal bone, or according to the second method for amputating the little finger and its metacarpal bone. In the execution of the former method, the fingers having been held out of the way, the surgeon, controlhng the thumb, enters his knife in the middle of the web extending between it and the forefinger. He then sweeps the blade downwards in a slightly curvilinear direction—first on tlie extensor, then on the flexor iispect of the