523 TKEATMENT OF BURNS AND SCALDS. available resoiirco of the system will by and by be called upon, during the protracted period of granulation and probable hectic—and that even at the time the system is not in a state favourable for the bearing of heroics. 6. Promote granulation. So soon as the inflammatory process has sufficiently subsided, water-dressing is applied; not hot, but tepid, as a mere detergent and protective ; and this is continued, so long as the gi-anulating surface remains of a healthy and vigorous character. Such period is but a short one, however; the sore soon assumes the weak character ; requiring medication of the dressings, by various stimulants j as the salts of zinc, copper, iron, silver, etc. At the same time, early support by bandaging is usually expedient. By some, a weak solution of the chloruret of soda is held in much repute as an application from the first; but this seems to be its proper place; and, in this place, I can testify from experience to its efi&cacy. If there is much foetor, a weak dilution of Condy's disinfecting fluid suits admirably. 7. Regulate the degree and direction of cicatricial contraction. And remember that centripetal movement of the old textures does not cease on cicatrization. The parts implicated in the injury, mediately and immediately, must be placed in their proper relative position ; and should be retained so, by suitable retentive means, during the whole period of cure. For example, in burns of the neck with loss of substance the head must be placed and kept erect by bandaging ; otherwise the chin will be drawn down upon the sternum, and frightful deformity will ensue by traction of the facial integument (Fig. 209). In less extensive injuries, on the face, arms, or other exposed parts, strips of adhesive plaster may be so arranged as to moderate the centripetal movement. This opposition, however, must never be carried so far as to peril the frame by hectic from tedious cure. "When orifices of canals are implicated—as the nares, urethra, rectum— they are to be kept distended by plugs or bougies, until the period of contraction has gone by -j in order that the normal calibre may be re- tained. When opposing surfaces are implicated, as in extensive burn or scald of the fingers, abnormal union is to be prevented by the daily and careful interposition of dressing; and it is well, at the same time, to maintaiu a considerable pressure at the points of commissure. 8. Retain the functions of joints. This is effected by passive and frequent motion. But, sometimes, the parts exterior to a joint are so wholly involved by the injury, as to render it obviously impossible to fulfil this indication. The joint must become stiff, by a kind of spurious anchylosis. And we have in these cases to content ourselves with securing such a position of the stiffening part, as shall afterwards prove most serviceable ; the elbow, hent at right angles, or something more ; the knee almost straight. 9, Maintain the potvers of the system. This is done by attention to air, exercise, and clothing ; by generous diet; by the use of tonics and stimuli; and of the latter, cantharides is often a most efficient form. A view towards this indication must always pervade our fulfilment of the fifth. 10. Remedy deformity. In spite of all efforts to moderate contraction, and to maintain due relation of position, deformity is of frequent occur- lence, wlien much loss of substance has l)cen sustained. A simple inci- ^on may sometimes suffice, Avhen the treatment has been negligent. Mere division of a tight cicatrix may permit the parts to be normally re-