CANCER OF THE LIP, 770 tlian deeply towards the chin, its removal cau best he effected by means of the bistoury. The including incisions are made by transfixion in tlie form of tlio letter V, the apex pointing downwards ; and tlie incision should be carried from the central point below upwards, first in one dhection and then in the other. Care is taken that the good general rule ia not transgressed, of taking away a border of apparently sound texture along with the diseased structure; the limits of the disease being recog- nised by the extent of indurated tissue as felt by the fingers and thumb, which grasp the parts during tlio operation so as to steady and stretch the lip before the knife. The Avound is approximated and secured, by twisted suture ; as for harelip. In not a few cases, however, almost the whole surface of the lip is involved, the disease at the same time extending deeply towards the chin. Under such circumstances, we have but one paramount indication to fulfil; namely, complete excision of the diseased part; and this is effected by the same plan of incision as just described. To effect approximation, however, both angles of the mouth must be extended outwards by in- cision, Avhen the V-shaped wound, with a little dissection of the mucons membrane, will be foimd to come together Avith some straining— harelip pins and interrupted wire sutures being used to maintain the parte in apposition. While common thread sutures are introduced betwee the mucous membrane and the sldn Avhere the two straight incisio' are brought towards the mesial line, and noAV constitute the free ma of the lip, one or tAvo sutures will still be required to attach the es tremities of the upper lip in their new relations with the tissues of cheek ; and then the operation is complete. When the parts are not sufficiently lax to admit of this be* effected, the loAver lip may be restored by the elevation of the jacent parts.* The operation is thus described by Mr. Syme, in case in which removal of the cancer and restoration of the lip was do Fig. 277. Fig. 27S. at the same time :—" Two incisions Avere made from the angles of tb mouth so as to meet at the chin, and remove the Avhole of tlie morbr part in a triangular form. The lines ah and he being supposed t represent these incisions, I cut from the point h outAvards and dow) wards, on each side, to d and e, in a straight direction, and then, AVitJi * See Blasius, Kluiisclicn Zuitsclirift, Hallo, 1836. DienViil.ach, llaiulbucli «1 ria.sticlioii Chinirgic, lierliii, 1838. SiTre, Traitc .sur I'Art Rcstaurer Ir.s Pfl'> jiiitcs dela Face, Paris, 1842. Symc, Monthly Journal, March 1847, p. <342.