PROLAPSUS OF THE UTEFvUS. 1275 between tlio cervix and the tumour quickly reaches the end of a cul-de- sac all round the latter. Farther, tlio history of the case is peculiar. The revei-so of almost all these points is prodicable of a polypus ; and some of them, it" certainly made out, are quite distinctive. '* Wlien inversion is partial and the result of polypus, it will probably disappear spontaneously on removal of the cause. In an ordinary case of chronic 2)ost partum invei-sion, an attempt should be made to reduce it by direct pressure ; the patient being anjesthetizod ; premising the use of warm baths, local bleedings, purgatives, etc. If this fail, and extir- pation of the organ is recommended, it is sufficiently easy of execution. The womb is drawn down between the labia by forceps, and a very tight ligatui-o is applied around it below the cervix, care being taken that no intestine has descended into the inverted organ. Or the mass may bo transfixed by a double ligature, and tied in two j^arts. Or a metallic ligature may be thrown around it j and by the aid of Gooch's double canula, or other similar instrument, this may be gradually tightened till it cuts its way through and separates the whole. It occasionally happens that the already existing constriction at the neck of -the womb is such as to cause slougliing without surgical assistance. Prolapsus of the Uterus May be partial or complete; the former terra indicating an abnormal approximation of the uterus to the os externum vaginse ; the latter denoting that the organ lies in part, or in whole, without the os exter- num, forming a tumour between the patient's thighs. The affection may occur at any age; but increases in frequency with the advance of life, as well as according to the number of labours. Small tumours in the uterus, or the pressure of large tumours upon it, monorrhagia and leucorrhoea, are local predisj)osing causes ; as also relaxation of the vagina, from whatever cause, and largeness of the pelvis. It is met with in every rank of life ; but when in a very aggravated state, is most fre- quent in the lower classes—especially in those unfortunate women whose avocations require much straining and effort; not only predisposing to the disease, but also aggravating it when it exists. It may occur at any stage of pregnancy, or through it all; and even during delivery at the full time—but this rarely. This condition is easily distinguished by finding the os and cervix, and ascertaining that the former leads into the cavity of the organ. Par- tial prolapsus is extremely frequent in its occurrence, is easily replaced in most cases, and seldom causes any serious disturbance. In complete prolapsus, also, the tumour is generally easy of replacement; sometimes, indeed, it resumes its natural position spontaneously, when the patient lies down. But in aggravated cases, replacement may be a matter of some difficulty from various causes. Of these, congestion and inflamma- tory change are the most important. In some cases, this latter has been so intense as to end in gangrene and separation of the parts ; resulting in either death or cure of the patient. When the prolapsus is large and of long standing, it may be quite impossible to replace it. The uterus, carrying with it the bladder and rectum, becomes swoln