60 LOCAL TREATMENT—COLD. to maintain it undisturbed, his efforts should be directed throughout the whole period of treatment. Thus he avails himself of an important advantage which he has over tlie physician. In surgical inflammatory affections, of external parts, this valuable indication may be often com- pletely fulfilled; while it can be effected but partially, if at all, in the case of an internal organ—as the heart, lungs, or kidney. Place an in- flaming joint in a state of rest, so soon as you are called; maintain its immtmity from motion undisturbed, by splints or othermse ; and you will not require to take largely from the remainder of the antiphlogistic cata- logue. Whereas, permit its play, voluntary and involuntary, to remain uncontrolled; and leeches, cuppings, blisters, time, may be all freely expended, without securing an equally satisfactory result. Position.—Not only should the part be put and kept at rest; it should also be placed and maintained in such a position as to favour the antiphlogistic result. The knee, for instance, is bent; so as to relax the muscles implicated; thereby relieving tension, and diminishing the risk of involuntary spasmodic movement. At the same time, the limb is elevated; in order to favour venous return, and retard the arterial influx. Oold.—With some it is still an unsettled point, whether heat or cold be the preferable application to an inflaming part; the question being usually left open, to be determined either by chance or by the feelings of the patient. Heat and cold are both valuable; but each has its appro- priate period for use; and either, employed out of its own proper time and place, will generally do harm Cold acts by producing contraction of the arterial trunks supplying the irritated part, as also by diminish- ing the vital changes in the cell elements of the part, so constituting the determining essentials of the inflammatory process. The virtue of cold is therefore chiefly as a prophylactic; diligently and carefully em- ployed during the period of incubation. Thus, after the infliction of an incised wound, we are anxiou.s to prevent inflammatory access, or at least to retard and limit its invasion; and, with this view, we have recourse to the continued apphcation of cold, in the manner formerly described. Should we succeed in averting the inflammatory process altogether, we gradually cease from the application. Should the inflammatory process fairly set in, notwithstanding our efforts to the contrary, it is equally our duty to desist; the time appropriate for cold has passed, and if its use be persevered in harm will follow. It then acts as an irritant, and by pro- moting contraction of the parenchyma, favours tension and consequent aggravation. And, during further progress of the disease, it must, by its directly sedative influence, depress vital power in the part; so favoming the destructive results—suppuration, ulceration, and gangrene. During the inflammatory progress, indeed, it may induce, or seem to induce, abatement of one symptom—the heat; it may also, by its sedative action, assuage the perverted function of the nerves; but, in all other respects, the part can scarcely fail to sustain injury by it. While diligent in its use, therefore, during incubation, we usually desist from it when the inflammatory process fairly begins to get the ascendency; the cessation not abrupt, however, but gradual; from cold to cool, from cool to tepid, from tepid to warm, from warm to hot j other-