1163 CONDYLOMA. most extended—although they have looked for such results, and even practised with more than doubtful propriety experiments for the purpose of deciding the point—have still to confess that while they would will- ingly give tlieir assent to such a doctrine, they have not as yet met with facts Avhich satisfy them as to its truth. Those pathologists and practitioners who have come to helieve in the communicability of secondary lesions, state—1. That the secondary affections whicli occur in young children, and are of hereditary origin, especially if tliey present the condjdomatous form, are most communi- cable ; particularly from a nursling to a nurse, and from the latter to one or more other children; or from one child to another, the vaccine vii'us forming the vehicle. 2. That the period of incubation in such cases is always a long one, extending in some instances to even forty-two days; the average of different experiments being from about twenty-two to twenty-six days. Fig. 340. 3, That the resulting lesion is always a papule which becomes ulcerated and presents the character of the indurated chancre, with its characteristic bubo, and is followed by the usual train of constitutional symptoms. In our own experience, while we have not felt justified in making experiments as some have done lo satisfy their curiosity in this par- ticular, we have had no such undoubted and otherwise inexplicable clinical facts as to lead us to accept the above propositions as absolutely proved. We see no reason, however, to doubt the good faith of those who have adduced such results; and would certainly counsel prudent adhesion to the side of safety in all manipulations in connection with secondary affections, especially when abraded and exposed surfaces exist, and should assuredly recommend that every precaution should be em- ployed in vaccination to avoid the possibility of using the virus from an unknown and possibly vitiated source. Further, we acknowledge that Fig. 340. Condylomata.—Acton.