FRACTURE OF THE LOWER JAW. 790 in a direction outwards; but in many cases there is no displacement Avliatevcr. Fractures of the ascending ramus and neck of tlie bone, if obscured by swelling, can easily bo detected by introducing the finger into the mouth, feeling for the styloid process, immediately in front of which the condyle of the ja^v will bo felt, and thus manipulating the parts while t]ie mouth is opened and closed. Should the condyloid fragment be dis- placed inwards, by the external pterygoid, its reduction may likewise ha effected in this manner, as was first distinctly pointed out by liibes, Eeduction is in most cases easily effected; and, usually, retention is not difficult. The fragments should be carefully adjusted in correspond- ence with the teeth in the upper jaw. Tlie jaws having been firmly closed, a pasteboard splint is adapted to the exterior surface; and the whole is retained by a four-tailed bandage. Some recommend that two wedges of cork, sloping gently backwards, with their upper and under surfaces gi-ooved for tlie reception of the upper and lower teeth, should be inserted on each side of the mouth, as a means of securing accurate apposition of tha fragments. They are mainly of use when fluid food cannot be introduced through the clenched teeth, or when, from deficiencies in the teeth, Fig. 287. the jaws cannot be satisfactorily locked against each other; and in such circumstances, gutta percha softened in hot water can generally be more readily modelled to serve the purpose than any other material. In cases of double fracture of the base of the jaw, if firm teeth occupy the verge of each fractured portion, it has been recommended to bind these together by wire, as a means of effecting better apposition. This is attended, however, with the risk of loosening the teeth so dehgated. Teeth quite detached should be removed at once; and so ought fragments of bone similarly circumstanced—in cases of comminution. For some time, usually between a month and six weeks, the patient must be content with such articles of food as require no mastication; and all movement of the fractured part must be avoided. It is rare to meet with deformity as a result of fracture of the jaw except in cases of very great comminution, loss of bone, or absence of all treatment; and want of union may be said practically not to occur. Li gunshot fractures of the lower jaAv, the copious foetid suppuration, floAnng into the mouth and SAvallowed by the patient, always induces great gastric disturbance, with more or less typhoid symptoms. Tliis may, indeed, be due to the occurrence of PyEemia; but by Dupuytren, in the latter years of his life, it was attributed to the swallo-\ving of the dis- i charge; and to remedy tlois he recommended free incision, removal of 1 the fragments, and resection of the bone beyond the injured part. Extreme comminution of the bone coidd alone justify the adoption of • such a severe measure. Fig. 287. Four-tailed bandage, applied to secure the lower jaw.