TUMOURS OF THE OEBIT. 648 Tunmirs of the Orlnt. Hard Tumours of tlic orbital pariotcs are uncommon. The deii ivory exostosis produces little inconvenience, is usually of inconsideraLL size, and requires no treatment. The cancellated exostosis—of a pedun- culated character, and larger dimensions—may incommode the eyeball. If so—the nature of the case being plain—an incision may be made oi: the origin of the growth ; its neck may be cut by the bone-pliers ; and. by careful dissection, the offending substance may then be removed. Soft Tumours are of more frequent occurrence. And they may hi practically divided into four classes. 1. The simple and sarcomatous amenable to excision, 2. The erectile; capable of cure, but not gein rally by direct operation. 3. The malignant; usually forbidding opera tion, and admitting only of palliation. 4, The chronic inflammator}- and syphilitic. 1. The simple tumours—simply sarcomatous, fibrous, fatty, cystic- may form in the orbital areolar tissue, unconnected with either the boji or its periosteum; and the growth may be either of idiopathic origin, c a remote consequence of slight injury. Enlargement is slo"\v, gradua comparatively painless, and unattended with inflammatory signs; n likely therefore to be mistaken for orbital abscess. As in the lat affection, however, outw^ard growth is prevented by the orbital ligamen compression of the eyeball follows ; and this organ may be more or 1 first displaced, and then protruded from its socket. At first, sight not lost, and scarcely even impaired; for stretching of the optic nerve gradual, and nervous as well as cerebral tissue has a very considera' power of accommodating itself to displacing agencies gradually appli Ultimately, however, the stretching and displacement are attended wi more or less impairment of vision. By careful inquiry into the history of the case, we satisfy ourselv'. that the tumour is of the simple kind—although of Avhat exact species, may not be easy to determine; for the tense orbital ligament, stretch over the swelling, obscures tactile examination. Generally, however, ^ are able to satisfy ourselves on another point; whether or not the tumo is movable—connected or not with the bone and periosteum—consequent removable or not, entire, by oj)eration. When convinced that the tumo is simple and movable, we do not hesitate to attempt its extirpation, wound is made of sufficient extent, in a Hne parallel to the fibres of i orbicularis muscle. By cautious dissection, the tumour is reached w exposed. It is then laid hold of by a volsella, or hooked forceps; ai evulsion outwards being steadily yet gently maintained, extirpation rendered both easy and safe. The point of the knife is moved v warily, when near or in contact with the orbital parietes; for these, ^ the pressure of the tumour, may have been much attenuated; and careless movement of the instrument might cause penetration. T eyeball and optic nerve are also carefully avoided. After removal the tumour, the former is carefully readjusted in its proper place; a restoration of its functions usually ensues. The wound is brought \ gether, and treated for adhesion. In some cases, by dividing the external commissure as far as 1