818 THE PASSING OF INSTRUMENTS. food ; or nutrient enemata may he resoi-ted to, should the dyspliagia be complete. It must not be imagined, bowcver, that foreign substances may be loft without risk to loosen themselves by suppuration, and so to facihtate if not cflect, their oAvn extrusion. The obstruction to deglutition, and impediment to brcatliing, are tliemselves circumstances sufficiently unto- ward to demand prompt interference. Tlie inflammatory process, too, which is sure to follow, is fraught with both disadvantage and danger; it may lay the foundation of a formidable organic stricture ; it may cause a troublesome abscess, resulting perhaps in a fistuloxis opening in the canal; or, in a low site, ulceration may open into the arch of the aorta, and prove speedily fatal. It is important to remember that very frequently the painful senaa- tion of a foreign body lodged in the pliarynx or oesophagus remains, for hours or even days, after the substance itself has been ejected, or has passed down into the stomach. When, therefore, we have made a care- ful examination of the parts, and satisfied ourselves that no foreign body is there, we treat such abnormal sensation by leeching, followed by coun- ter-irritation, or by anodyne embrocation. The ^passing of Instruments hy the Pharynx and (Esophagus. The surgeon is not unfrequently called upon to pass instruments into the pharynx and oesophagus ; curved forceps for the extraction of foreign bodies; probangs and bougies for the propidsion of impacted articles of food, or for the relief of simple stricture ; hollow tubes for the convey- ance of nourishment into the stomach, in cases of wound of the pharynx or oesophagus—as in cut throat; and the tube of the stomach-pump, in cases of poisoning. Tlie points to be attended to are ;—to use all gentle- ness, so as to avoid lesion of the lining membrane of the canal; and to take especial care, particularly when it is our object to throw in ingesta, the tube does not pass into the air passage. If the patient be sensible,' he is seated on a chair, with the head thi-own much back, so as to br the upper part of the ahmentary canal into as straight a line as possibl The mouth having been opened wide, and the tongue depressed with tb left fore-finger, the tube is moved rapidl}'- past the soft palate, so as tc avoid retching; and its extremity is then gently propelled, resting or the posterior part of the pharynx, and made to ghde, as it were, on th( anterior surfaces of the vertebras in its passage downwards. When th( instrument's point is opposite the rima glottidis, the patient may b( directed to make an effort to swallow; or, with the left hand, the siu^W may hook the root of the tongue and upper part of the larynx forwarda out of the way. As the tube passes into the oesophagus, a false senBd of obstruction is sometimes produced by its coming in contact with ihd ring of the cricoid cartilage ; to overcome this, all that is required is fcl pull the box of the larynx and upper part of the trachea gentl}' forwarAJ from the oesophagus; such'movement being plainly conducive to the frej passage of the instrument into and down the canal "Wixcn insensibihlf exists, the operation is in one way facilitated; inasmuch as there is nj resistance on the part of the patient. But, in such cases, it is plam thr