381 AFFECTIONS OF THEC^E, ail indolent purulent poucli remaining, filled only by ill-formed pus, and granulation proving deficient. Again, small adventitious bursJB not unfrequently open by suppura- tion ; and then remain open ; continuing to discharge a thin fluid, partly bursal, partly purulent, through an irritable sinus, vv^hich terminates in a more irritable ulcer, as in open Bunion. The best mode of getting rid of such troublesome affections is to insert a pointed piece of potassa fusa; applying it freely to the whole of the secreting surface. A slougli is formed, including the adventitious structure ; and, on its separation, healthy granulation and closure will ordinarily follow. Small adventitious bursee may be chronically enlarged, and be them- selves the seat of little pain or uneasiness ; while from a red, glazed, and intensely irritable state of superimposed skin, the patient may from time to time endure extreme sufiering—as in the slighter form of bunion. In such cases, total abstraction of pressure, and the application of nitrate of silver so as merely to blacken and desiccate, will generally su£&ce to re- store a state of indolence and quietude. Loose Bodies in Bursce. These bodies, resembling in size and form melon seeds, are sometimes found in bursse. Their existence in this situation is, however, rare as compared with their formation in the distended thecse of tendons. When the bursal swelling consists of two prominent parts, with a narrow channel of communication, these bodies produce a peculiar churning sensation, on pressure being made alternately on one swelling and on the other. "When this is not the case, their presence cannot usually be determined until the sac is punctured; when either they may escape along with the serosity, or the opening being too small for this, a few drops of serum only escape, and the swelling remains undiminished even on steady pressure. If troublesome, they may be removed. By direct incision, if the bursa be insulated and smaU; by subintegumental punc- ture, and extrusion, when the bursa is large, or connected with a joint. AFFECTIONS OF THEC^. 2Viecitis. The thecse of tendons may be acutely afi'ected by the inflammatory process ; in connection with rheumatism or gout, or in consequence of external violence. More frequently the process is chronic j the slow, and perhaps remote consequence of a blow or strain. A fluctuat- ing swening forms, with little pain; but with a marked feeling of nneasmess, as well as of weakness in the part; the play of muscles, pedeT^' sometimes of the neighbouring joint, being manifestly im- Treatment is by rest, pressure, and discutients. If the rheumatic or gouty diathesis be present, the ordinary remedies—as colchicum, iodide 01 potassmm, etc.—are of course to be employed.