CONSEQUENCES OF DISLOCATION. 558 formed there for its reception and play; partly by interstitial absorption, partly by new formation around. And tlie surface of this new aceta- bulum, or glenoid cavity—as the case may be—becomes invested Ijy dense ligamentous structure, well lubricated ; which forms an excell(;nt Fig. 224. imitation, both in appearance and in function, of the normal articular cartilage. Not unfrequently, however, porcellanous change takes the place of the membranous investment. The displaced head of the bone, too, itself undergoes alteration; parting with its cartilage, flattening, and suiting itself generally to its changed circumstances. At the same time, the original articulating surface, now left unoccupied, begins to change; but the change is slow and long deferred. After many months, nay after years of vacancy, the glenoid cavity has been found in such a state of suitableness, and so little altered from its original structure and dimen- sions, as to admit of replacement with complete restoration of function; and without any long time being required for re-estabHshment of the former freedom and extent of motion. In a macerated pelvis, evidently obtained from a patient who had lived long after the occurrence of dislo- cation, I have seen two acetabula in close apposition; the one original, the other of adventitious formation; and both apparently of almost equally efficient capabilities. After a time, however—various in different cases, yet never brief—the original articulating surface does change materially. Its cavity is filled up, and its investing cartilage disajipears;. its projections are rounded oif by absorption; it becomes incorporated with the surrounding soft parts; and these changes take place all the more speedily and eflfectually, if the new articulating sm-face be in its immediate vicinity, and encroach on its boundary. There seems good reason to believe, also, that the less the synovial capsule has been injured, and the more freely it continues its secretive power, the less speedy and complete are the obliterative changes in the original structure. Treatment.—The paramount indication is Reduction, and cannot be attempted too soon. It consists of extension, to move the bone from its Fig. 224. Old dislocation of tlic liip. A new acetabulum formed; wliile the original Is but little changed.—Sir A. Coopbr.