ARTIFICIAL PUPIL. 705 iih forceps, and a sufficient portion is drawn out, and clipped away ith curved scissors. Should no prolapse occur, pressure on the globe should not be made, but Tyrrell's blunt hook is introduced; and this, ving been entangled over the free margin of the pupil, is withdrawn ; ou°h the opening; the included portion of iris being either excised ah Scissors, or allowed to rub off with the friction of the lids, after liavin" become strangulated in the w-ound of the cornea. The excision th^ portion of the iris which has been drawn out is always preferable leaving it to become strangulated in the wound, because, Isf, It may ,.ip from the corneal aperture; and 2d, The inflammatory irritation xcited in the partially strangulated iris, may extend to the interior of he eye and destroy the globe. 3d, The presence of the smallest frag- •nt of iris in the wound prevents its accurate apposition and interrupts u.'atrization, and therefore may produce a fistulous aperture. When the pupil is adherent either to the capside of the lens, or to the rnca, a larger incision than in the former case should be made, near he junction of the cornea with the sclerotic, and through a clear portion ' the cornea. The aqueous humour escapes, a small sharp hook, or the inula forceps, is passed through the opening, and fixed in the iris, as ear the site of the old pupil as possible, and a portion is dragged out r the opening. When a sufficiency has been protruded, it should be xcised with the curved scissors; and the pupillary margin should, if lossible, be included in the excised part. This method of operating is so suitable in cases of occluded pupil, when the lens and its capsule either exempt from implication, or have been affected only within area of the pupil. Gorediahjsis, or separation of the iris from its ciliary attachment, buld only be preferred in cases where the cornea is wholly opaque, ccept a small part at its circumference. Such cases are very unfavour- ble for any operation, the eyeball being generally very seriously diseased, laving made an opening about two lines in length through the opaque of the cornea, a fine sharp hook or fine tooth forceps is introduced, lid fixed in the iris close to its ciliary border, and at a point correspond- [g to, but nearer the sclerotic than the clear portion of the cornea. Then withdrawn, the iris is torn away from its ciliary attachment till opening of sufficient size is obtained (Fig. 257, 4); and the portion of |e iris which is di-awn out of the anterior chamber should be excised, is operation is always a painful one ; the site of the pupil is the worst Msible, and the risk of copious intraocular hemorrhage is very great. The operation of Iriddesis, or ligature of the iris, was suggested by . Critchett, as suitable for all cases where it was desirable to displace natural pupil. By it the pupillary aperture becomes an elongated ■ It is suited to cases of central opacity, and of synechia anterior jich partially implicates the margin of the pupil; and also when the >ole pupil has been drawn aside, and vision obstructed by an opacity Mch overlies its new site. By means of this operation, the size of the Ipil can be regulated to a nicety ; and this is a great practical advantage Ined by its employment. In some cases, when the pupil is not too ply dragged upon, some degree of natural contraction and dilatation una. The operation is performed through the cornea.—A puncture ia 2 z