TITR OPENING OF ABSCESS. 89 Opening may also be prudently delayed, when the suppurated part is in itself unimportant, and when mucli active inflammatory progress exists around—lilcely to be aggravated by early wound ; as in some cases of acute bubo. Then it may be well to wait till the part has calmed down; as tooth-extraction is wisely postponed, until the fury of the gumboil shall have passed away. The opening may be effected either by knife or by potassa fusa. In the great majority of cases the former is preferred, as less painful; more expethtious ; entailing no loss of substance ; and less likely to excite and maintain inflammatory progress which might extend and aggravate the original mischief. The preferable form of cutting instrument is the bistoury, sharp-pointed, with a fine edge, and either curved or straight. The curved is used when an abscess is superficial and prominent; punc- turing the superimposed textures at their lowest and most dependent point, traversing the cavity of the abscess as far as may be deemed requisite for free evacuation, emerging from a puncture opposite to that whereby entrance was effected, and then by a rapid withdrawal of the instrument dividing the parts interposed between the points of entrance and exit. The straight bistoury, on the other hand, is used when the surface is flat and the abscess deep. The point is held perpendicular to the surface, and steadily advanced through the superimposed parts, imtil the cavity of the abscess is reached— as is indicated by absence of re- sistance, and the freedom of motion which the knife's point may be made to assume; then by a gentle sawing movement, the aperture is made sufiiciently wide ere the instrument is with- drawn. The bistoury should be held very loosely, and with readi- ness to let go on the instant, should the patient by an involun- i Fig. 22. tary start jerk forward the punc- tured part. Also, when the thickness to be cut through is either siderable, or pretematurally dense, sudden plunging of the knife shourd be guarded against; by employing steady and gradual, rather than great and sudden force; at the same time resting the back of the bistoury on a finger of the left hand laid flat on the integument; otherwise the cavity of the abscess may be completely transfixed, and important parts wounded on the opposite side. The opening should invariably be made dependent; that is, at the lowest part of the cavity; in order that it may afford a free and efficient Oram for the purulent fluid, and thereby not only prevent re-accumulation, but also favour contraction of the empty space. And in determining the pomt which IS most eligible with this view, we must of course always take mto consideration the posture which the patient is to occupy during Fig. 22. Abscess opened, from without inwards. con-