1020 THE OPEKATION. Fig. 311. inatted togethor. Any constriction wliich exists may be divided, or the intestine and omentum unravelled or separated ; and then, first the intestine, and afterwards the omentum, is lo be returned withiu tlie abdominal cavity. But if it be deemed expedient to open the sac, it sliould be pinched up by forceps; choosing a part wliero serum or fat interposes between it and the bowel—and that will generally be towards the fundus of small hernise. By the knife's edge, held horizontally, the raised fold is cut. Through this aperture, the serous fluid in the sac flows out; while this is occurring, a probe-pointed bistoury is inserted, and the sac divided towards its neck, so as to admit the point of the finger; and, on this, as tlie best director, further dilatation of the opening is made to such an extent as may be deemed Ji^^}^ advisable. However large the ''^X hernia, the opening of the sac need ^" not be of greater extent than what is merely sufficient for ascertaining the state of the contents, and per- mitting the finger to reach the site of the stricture. The point of the forefinger having been passed up to the abdominal aperture, the probe - pointed bistoury is slid flatly along it; and, by the point's edge, insinuated within, and then pressed upon the stricture, this is notched to the necessary extent. The knife is then withdrawn, and the finger pushed gently onward, so as to dilate the opening ; the knife beiug again introduced, if need be, to effect this more completely. Then the hernial contents, having been drawn gently downwards so as to expose the site of constriction, are replaced cautiously, if sound and reducible, portion by portion—the last protruded, first. Sometimes a considerable quantity of clear, bloody, or turbid serum escapes from the cavity of the abdomen. This usually indicates the existence of some peritoneal irritation; and the more complete the departure from the normal characters of healthy serosity which the fluid presents, the more unfavourable should be the prognosis. Recent and tender adhesions may be gently broken up with the finger, or touched with the edge of the knife ; but consolidated adhesions, if at all extensive, usually render the parts irreducible, as they do not admit of being interfered with. When there is any con- siderable portion of omentum in the sac, it should be carefully examined, to ascertain whether or not it conceals—perhaps strangles—a knuckle of intestine. If the sac be not adherent, it is replaced as well as its con- tents, but not along with them ; for reduction is found to be facilitated by an assistant's finger steadying and stretching the sac, while the con- tents are pushed upwards on its smooth and slippery surface. Eeduc- tion having been accomplished, the wound is brought together by Fig. 311. a a, The portion of bowel which has been protruded ; constricted, dark, and engorged. At b, the upper, or cardiac portion, dilated, and of dark colour. At f, the lower portion, comparatively empty, flaccid, and pale.