CHAPTEK XLIX. DISEASES OE THE AETICULATIONS OF THE SUPERIOE EXTEEMITY. Disease of the Shoulder-Joint. This joint is liable to the ordinary affections of such parts. But it is if perhaps especially liable to disorganizing disease, involving all textures ultimately, and usually originating in the cancellated tissue of the bead of the humerus. To this the term Omalgia was formerly applied; very inappropriately, because apparently inferring that the disorder was of the nature of irritation, or neuralgic, not structural and inflammatory. It may occur at any age; and very frequently its origin is connected^ with external injury. One of the first and most prominent symptoms) is wasting of the deltoid; ultimately giving the appearance of pronuTi nence to the acromion. The pain extends down the limb, and is moi severe at night. There are two parts—one anteriorly, beneath andl external to the coracoid process—the other posteriorly, at a correspond- ing point—to which the patient usually refers the pain in the articulatioi itself, and where the greatest aggravation of the suffering is produced b; pressure. The arm is incapable of exertion ; and pain in the joint is in- creased by motion, especially when the arm is raised. Bending tab place at the elbow; and the limb projects awkwardly from the body,; feeble and wasted, sometimes oedematous and congested, and apparent! increased in length. The flattening of the deltoid region, the approxi' mation of the tubercle of the humerus to the coracoid, and the abductioH' of the limb, all closely simulate luxation of the shoulder. And, at length, this result may actually occur; disorganization of the joinl having become complete. The constitution does not fail to suffer, in sympathy with the progress of this grave disorder. Swelling, as usui in primary affections of the hard tissues, is of secondary occurrence, an( is seldom very great; evacuation of the matter, by external opening^i being soon attained by Nature's own efibrt. Treatment is to be conducted on the general principles enunciated U) speaking of the treatment of diseases of joints generally. But, tru' caries having been established, with an open condition of the joint, Jt becomes very improbable that spontaneous cure will talce place; and usually the general health is then seriously and obviously on the de- cline. In such circumstances, the diseased parts must be removed hj operation—by resection of the joint, or by amputation of the Hinb. The former operation is obviously preferable, when not expressly contra- indicated.