624 FRACTURE WITH DISPLACEMENT. unfavourable character than the others; danger by inflammatory mischi. being greater and more probable. But the difference is, on the whol<; not so marked as between corresponding injuries of the bones of the extremities. It is possible that the existence of a communicating wound may prove even an advantage; by permitting outward escape of blood or of inflammatory products, and so saving the important internal parts. The treatment is prophylactic and expectant, according to the general principles already explained. There is as little necessity for immediate trephining, as in the case of mere fissure. If the injury have been sii tained at the lower and anterior angle of the parietal bone, and is speedi! followed by urgent compression, it may be advisable to apply the trephii in order to afford a freer vent for the meningeal hemorrhage. En usually, the aperture already existing is sufficient for an outward draij:. And again, should symptoms of compression by suppuration supervem at a more advanced period, operative interference may be necessary i effect a free evacuation. In general, however, there is no necessity f the use of the trephine. Fracture with Displacement. If the fractured portion, or portions, be displaced inwards, the brail is more or less incommoded, and symptoms of compression ensue ; pro portioned usually to the amount of depression, and to the relativJ importance of that part of the brain which is injured. The upper anterior surface of the brain, as formerly stated, may bear a very coi derable amount of compression with comparative impunity. The injury may occur without corresponding wound of the soft pa the whole vault having sometimes been so smashed within an ahnoa luiinjured scalp as to resemble a bag of broken fragments ; usuaUi however, the fracture is compound. The dangers are formidable. 1. By concussion, bruising, and lacer tion of the brain. 2. By extravasation of blood. 3. By the results (| the inflammatory process on the brain and its membranes. 4. By coi pression, caused by the displacement. The three first are to be opposed by fulfilment of the ordinary ind cations. The last is to be removed by operative interference. But ij regard to tliis the question at once arises :—Whether, in all cases depressed fracture, operative interference, for the purpose of replaci the depressed portion of bone, is necessarily demanded 1 Formerly, tl answer was in the affirmative ; at present, it is not so. Elevation of tl j depressed portion is had recourse to, with two remedial objects in viev to remove the cause of compression, and consequently the symptoms this, when they exist; and also to remove a likely exciting cause of i | fiammatory access from the portion of cerebral tissue and membranes act upon by the depressed bone. "When the symptoms of compression 8 j great and urgenl^ or, without increasing, shew no tendency to abate af waiting for a moderate period, there is no room for hesitation ; it is plan the duty of the surgeon at once to attempt removal of the cause; and fulH ment of the former of the two indications is sufficient warrant forrecoml to the operation. But if symptoms of compression either do not exist, J