DISLOCATION OF THE CLAVICLE. 929 padded with lint, placed on the dorsal and pahnar aspects. When the proximal phalanx is fractured, and it is found difficult or impossible to retain it in position hy means of splints, the worsted ball, large enough to occupy the palm of the hand aud grasp of the fingers, as already described for the treatment of fracture of the metacarpal bones, may be advantageously substituted. DISLOCATIONS. Dislocation of the Clavicle. 1. The Sternal Extremity may be displaced forwards, or upwards, or backwards, a. Forioards.—Dislocation forwards is by much the most j&equent, but compared with fracture of the clavicle is a rare injury. It is produced by violence acting indirectly, as by falls or blows on the shoulder. The displaced extremity is seen and felt plainly resting in front of the upper bone of the sternum, while the sterno-mastoid muscle stands out in bold relief, and the shoulder is depressed. The sterno-clavicular and costal ligaments are always torn, and the intra-arti- cular fibro-cartilage may either be displaced along with the clavicle or retain its attachment to the sternum. Replacement is easily effected by raising the shoulder, and by carrying it backwards so as to approximate the scapulse, while pressure is applied over the dislocated head of the bone. The difficulty in all these cases consists in keeping the bone reduced. Various devices have been suggested to attain this end; but a figure of 8 bandage to keep the shoulders moderately approximated, or a pad applied over the sternal end of the clavicle, and retained in position with a figure of 8 bandage, with, in either case, a shng to keep the elbow and forearm thoroughly supported, will be found quite as satisfactory and less irksome than any other. A Salmon-and-Ody spring truss, with the well padded head applied over the end of the bone, the counterpad resting behind be- tween the shoulders, and the spring passing below the armpit, may be tried where continuous repression seems necessary. The case of oblique frac- ture, extending from within outwards and from before backwards through the head of the clavicle, is liable to be mistaken for dislocation, b. Up- wards.—This is a very rare form of injury. In it the sternal extremity of the bone occupies the supra-sternal space, on a higher or lower level; sometimes close above the sternum, and in contact with the sternal portion of the opposite sterno-mastoid and sterno-hyoid muscles behind ; in other cases elevated as liigh as the level of the thyroid cartilage (Hamilton, uffalo). Depression of the shoulder, elevation of the sternal end of the one which lies in front of the trachea, and shortenmg of the distance be- een the acromion and sternum, serve to render the nature of the acci- ent sufficiently apparent. A sling to support the elbow and forearm, th a pad and figure of 8 bandage applied so as to control if possible e head of the clavicle, is all that can be employed, after replacement 18 been effected by elevating the shoulder and depressing the sternal xtremity by direct pressure with the fingers, c Backwards.—Disloca- lon backwards is also extremely rare. When the result of accident, it is 3 o