ABSORPTION OF TUMOURS. ins a time, the formation changes ; the morbid process is altered too ; and the nutrition is not merely exalted, but perverted. The tumour then increases, perhaps more rapidly than before; but there is more than mere increase, there is degeneracy to boot; the simple passes rapidly, and with marked indications, into the malignant form. All tumours are liable so to change ; but some more than others. Of the simple tumours, the cystic may be considered the most disiDosed to evil; while the fibrous evinces the least tendency to depart from its original nature. The exciting cause of change, when of the local kind, may be accidental injury; but much more frequently it is the repeated and ill-advised application of stimulus, wilfully, in the vain hope of discussing, by absorp- tion, what is not amenable to such mode of removal. Certain tumours may be made to disappear by ahsorption; and to these the cautious application of stimulus, with that end in •\T.ew, is a commendable and safe procedure ; but, unfortunately, these constitute but a small minority of true tumours. The simple glandular tumour may be discussed ; and so may some recent examples of the fibro-cellular. But all others resist discussion, and can be removed only by the knife. If the attempt to discuss be persevered in, nothing but evil results. 1. Their growth is accelerated. That is of itseK an evil. The simple tumour, as such, proves injurious chiefly by its bulk and position; by accelerated growth, that injury is obviously enhanced. At first the tumour, when small, could be removed by operation, vnth ease and safety; but, in con- sequence of the increased bulk, deeper and wider incisions become neces- sary, important parts are encroached on, and the operative procedure becomes one of difficulty and danger. 2. Adhesions are rendered more numerous and firm. A fatty tumour, for example, uninterfered with, long remains very loosely connected with its delicate investing capsule, even when of large size ; but after repeated stimulation the adhesions become so dense and general, as almost to incorporate the capsule with the tumour. At first, little more than a mere incision might have sufficed ; afterwards a painful, tedious, and careful dissection is required. Many a tumour has thus been not only brought into contact with impor- tant parts, but also rendered firmly adherent to them. 3. Degeneration is favoured ; nay, not merely favoured but directly produced, by the malapraxis, while neither tumour nor system had previously any disposi- tion towards such untoward change. Not unfrequently, however, disscusive treatment may be applied with the best success, not as itself a means of cure, but as an adjuvant and preliminary to operation. Thus, a malignant tumour may be of such enormous apparent dimensions as to render extirpation a proceeding of much danger, if not impossible ; and had we no means of diminisliing the bidk, and consequently limiting incision, we might be compelled to leave the patient a helpless victim of the disease. But we know that, in most cases, much of the bulk is not really due to the tumour itself, but consists of the common products of the inflammatory process in the areolar and other tissues exterior to it. By discussives, judiciously em- ployed, that outer swelling may be absorbed ; and the mass, then reduced to almost half its former size, may be dealt with by operation fearlessly. Let not the discussives, however, be pci-scvered witli or pushed so far as