NECKOSLS, 298 not bleed when touched, however rudely. Such signs are useful as not only auxiliary to diagnosis, but bearing strongly on the mode of dressing. However, it must also be well understood that a bone, stripped of peri- osteum, may at first shew all the usual indications of retained vitality, and yet whiten and die ; and also that an exposed portion of bone may become whitish, sonorous, and apparently non-vascular, shortly after in- fliction of the injury, and yet recover with the thinnest ])ossible exfolia- tion. In the latter class of cases, the process of renewed and increased vascularization, in a part previously exsanguine, may often be seen beautifully exemplified. 2. Tlie hone dies. The changes just detailed, indicating death of bone, occur sometimes very rapidly, and are completed in a few hours. In other cases, the event may be protracted for several days ; as if life were gradually and reluctantly relinquished. If previously, during the condition of simple ostitis, the periosteum were adherent, it is now com- pletely detached ; and purulent secretion is interposed between it and the bone. According to the rapidity with which the bone dies, the appearance of the dead part varies. If death be rapid, the bone has had no time to change its structure ; and consequently, as a sequestrum, it retains the character of normal bone. Its external surface is smooth and compact; and it looks like a portion mechanically removed from a sound skeleton. But if ostitis have existed in the part for some time previous to its death, then its appearance will vary, when dead, according to the duration and intensity of that affection. 3. Tlie dead portion is separated from the living. The death, or second stage, is often rapidly completed ; and is never long protracted. This, the third, on the contrary, is invariably tedious and slow. The mode of detachment is similar to that of sloughs in soft texture ; but very different as to the time employed. A slough separates in a few days ; while weeks or months may elapse, and detachment of the seques- trum may still be incomplete. The extent of the necrosed portion is indicated by its white, sonor- ous, insensible, and non-vascular characters; and these it retains through- out the whole process ; seeming as if it were a macerated portion of skeleton. The only change likely to occur is a darkening of its hue, by exposure to atmospheric influence when superficial, or to chemical action from contact with purulent secretion. But around this unchanging dead portion, and more especially in the parts immediately continuous, there is great activity. The colour is red or dark brown; evidently from in- creased and increasing vascularity. The slightest touch is painful, and followed by blood, of a florid arterial hue ; and the probe or finger plainly indicates a softening of that part, through removal of a large pro- portion of its earthy matter. In short, while the dead part is imder- going little or no change, unless perhaps a variation of hue, the living parts all around are busy carrying on an inflammatory process of a dege- nerative kind. The first change observable in the process of separation is, that the living bone along the line of junction Avith the dead has its periosteum thickened. If we strip this off at the margin, we see that the vessels entering the Haversian canals come out, not as mere threads,