HEMORRHOIDS. 1047 brane and protruding at the verge of the anus—or of the liemorrlioidal veins whicli are without the external sphincter, surrounded by hypertrophied areolar tissue, and covered partly by mucous membrane, partly by loose rugous integument. They may be undergoing the inflammatory process, or they may be indolent and quiet. At one or more points, ulceration may have exposed their interior, and they bleed; or they may be hlind, as the phrase is—emitting no blood. The varicose veins may have their nor- mal fluid contents : or these, coagulated, may have caused condensation of the tumour, more or less complete. The tumour may be single ; usually more than one exists. Treatment is either palliative or radical The latter consists in removing the morbid formation, by scissors or bistoury ; leaving the sore which remains to heal in the ordinary way. Palliation varies according to circumstances. If the part be inflaming, the recumbent posture, gentle laxatives, to avoid constipation or straining at stool, and hot bathing and poulticing are necessary. If it be in the indolent state, stimulants and astringents—iodine, gaDs, tannin, hellebore—are applied, with the view of puckering up the loose integument, obtaining discussion of the soHd abnormal textures, and restoring the normal condition of the veins. The bowels should at the same time be carefully regulated ; and, for this purpose, sulphur is a favourite medicine—usually combined, in the form of electuary, with pepper confection ; and sometimes, too, a proportion of copaiba is a good addition ; dosed so as to avoid over- action, while it insures a daily and sufiicient passage of a semi-fluid stool. By some, linseed oil taken internally is preferred as a sootliing and safe laxative. If any dyspeptic, or other disorder of the primae viae exist, that must be removed as speedily and thoroughly as possible. • Very often the Kver is to blame, and requires special treatment. Not unfrequently, a small, recent, tense pile presents itself, acutely inflamed, and exquisitely painful. A simple proceeding not oidy affords present relief but also may effect radical cure. With a lancet or bis- toury it is to be laid freely open, throughout its entire extent; the coagulated blood rolls out, a salutary loss of fluid blood takes place, and in subsequent healing of the wound consolidation is effected. Internal piles are of different kinds.—1. They may be of similar structure with the external; varicose veins, surrounded by hyper- trophied areolar tissue, and covered by mucous membrane more or less altered; open, or blind; inflaming, or indolent. 2. They may be genuine tumours, of the fibro-ceUular structure ; more or less pendulous in their form. 3. They more frequently are spongy vascular growths, with a broad base of attachment, the suiface resembling that of the strawberry. Internal hemorrhoids are most commonly of the last variety. If large and niunerous, they may constantly protrude more or less from the anus, or only become external when the patient occupies the erect posture or walks about; gradual dilatation of the sphincter from the pressure of the mass admitting of this. More frequently, they do not show them- selves externally, except when the bowels are moved ; and then the strain- ing causes them to become unusually turgid, and to descend. If not replaced, they may be constricted by the sphincter, inflame, and become