DISLOCATION OF THE ELBOW. 940 measurement of the forearm, from the external or internal condyle of the humerus to the styloid process of the radius or ulna, shews a sensible shortonins of the forearm, Avhile the distance between the acromion and external condyle remains unaltered. The transverse fold in the skm in front of the elboAv-joint fui-ther corresponds to a point above the pro- jection of the trochlea of the humerus, which, projecting forwards forms a hard swelling behind the tendon of the biceps and the brachi- alis anticus. The last-named muscle is usually only stretched over the end of the humerus; sometimes, however, it is torn; and the median nerve may also be extended over the projecting trochlea. Some writers speak of fracture of the coronoid process as a common accom- paniment. Reduction may be effected in two ways. a. By extemion from behind. —This is by some considered the preferable mode. The patient is placed with his back to the surgeon; and the shoulder having been fixed, ex- tension is made from the wrist, with the arm directed backwards at right angles to the trunk, so as to relax the triceps muscle. Very frequently, in recent cases, the operator thus succeeds, single-handed, with the left hand making counter-extension on the scapula. In difficult cases, ex- tension is intrusted to assistants, with or without pulleys, the patient being under chloroform, h. By forcibly bending the joint over the knee. —The patient having been seated on a chair, the surgeon places his knee in front of the elbow. Pressing the knee doAvn upon the upper part of the forearm, the coronoid process is separated from the humerus; and then, by forcible but gradual flexion, reduction is effected, c. By coaptation, either singly or in combination with extension. — This is effected by the surgeon holding the elbow embraced between his hands, the thumbs pressing back the end of the humerus, while with his fingers he urges the olecranon forwards ; an assistant may extend and then gradually flex the forearm, while the surgeon is occupied with the direct manipulation of the joint. 2. Laterally.—Both bones may be displaced laterally, as weU as backwards, in two ways; to the inside or to the outside. These in- juries are usually produced by falls upon the inner or outer side of the uj)per part of the forearm, and are occasioned partly by the direct force of the injury, partly by the twisting of the forearm. In neither of these displacements, when simple, do the articulating surfaces pass com- pletely clear of each other. In each, the extraordinary zig-zag line of the arm and forearm, with more or less twisting of the forearm inwards outwards, usually sufl&ces to indicate the nature of the accident, a. 0 wards, and outwards and backwards.—The olecranon process rests on lie back part of the external condyle ; and, when the dislocation is backwards and outwards, projects more posteriorly than in the simple lateral dislo- cation. The radius forms a protuberance on the outer side of the elbow, where its head may be felt plainly rotating. Tlie inner condyle projects very palpably, b. Inwards, and backwards and imcards.—The external condyle projects. The ulna is prominent internally and posteriorly; the ole- cranon resting on the inner side of the internal condyle, M'lule the head of the radius is placed either upon the trochlea or in the posterior fossa of the humerus. Reduction, in either case, is to be effected as in the