WOUNDS AND ULCERS OF THE TONGUE. cautery may bo applied. lu uniting the Avoiind, after bleeding 1ms ceased it is plain that we can avail ourselves with most advantage of the com- mon interrupted wire suture. In the slighter cases, the use of sutures may effect not only approximation but also a hemostatic result. Union rarely occurs by the first intention, but the sutures should be retained as tlie only means we can employ for securing coaptation of tlie parts during cicatrization. A very considerable degree of pain, swelHiig, and buccal irritation sometimes occurs for some days after the infliction of a wound of the tongue, which is best allayed by iced drinks, frequent wasliing of the mouth, and, aftei-wards, the employment of astringent and aromatic gargles. Ulcers of the Tongue. Ulcers of the tongue, nice those of the lips and cheeks, may be either simple or malignant. The former may depend on local irritation, as from tartar or decayed teeth ; or on gastric or biliary derangement; or on a general febrile condition ; or on a syphilitic state of system; or on the occurrence of mercurial poisoning. In the first of these cases, the ulcers are small, irritable, with a yellowish surface and red margin, and corre- spond to the existence of a tooth or teeth with sharp edge or encrustation of tartar ; in the second, they may consist of aphthous patches, or present the character of irritability already mentioned, and are situated generally around the margin and upon the under surface of the organ, which ia usually flabby, marked by the teeth, coated on the surface, and accom- panied by more or less foetor of the breath. In syphiUtic cases in the secondary stage, the ulcers consist either of whitish, oval, oblong, or crenelated elevations of the surface and margins of the organ, or of chaps and superficial excoriations, as if the epithelial surface had peeled off in patches ; in the tertiary stage, one or two deep and long ulcers occur, with hard margins and a sloughy-looking surface, implicating the deep textures of the part. In the mercurial eases, the whole organ is usually impK- cated, presenting a smooth, glossy, whitish aspect of surface, de'N'oid of papillee, with some hardening of its structures, and partial or complete alteration in its form. The constitutional ti'eatment of such different conditions, it is obvious, must vary accordingly. The preferable local applications are—nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper, either in sub- stance or in solution, and frequently applied; and, in obstinate cases, nitric acid or the fluid pernitrate of mercury, applied at long intervals. The malignant ulcers are attended with the usual characters of hard- ness, pain, excavation, and want of distinct definition, the margins being usually composed of projecting and hard granulating masses, implicating the textures of the tongue for some distance. Such ulcers are usually situated laterally, and frequently far back. They may be taken away by the partial or complete removal of the tongue. The former or partial operation is effected by excision with knife or scissors—after gi'asping the part and forcibly drawing it forwards by a sharp hook or volsclla—by ligature, by the ecraseur, by the galvano-caustic wire, or by means of . the actual cautery. The latter, or total extirpation of the orgau, may be effected as recommended by Eegnoli,* for the partial removal of the *ReOToli, Bullctine delle Scienze Mediclic, Jan. 1839, No. 131.