KADICAL CURE. 1027 requisite degrees of compression, without, however, endangering the cord, Mr. ^Vood has recently invented an oval horso-shoe-shaped pad. Tho two limbs correspond to the two pillars of the ring, and embrace the spine of the pubes and tho cord at their extremity. The rounded or oval upper part of the pad corresponds to the internal ring, while the pressure is so arranged by two C springs that the abdominal parietes at the inner and upper aspect of the internal ring obtain the chief support. " By the nse of this pad," says Mr. Wood, " we have the boundaries of the liernial canal and openings supported and compressed by a flat surface, tending to resist outward and lateral dilatation, in exactly the same manner as the fingers of the sm-geon. There is no dilating pressure on the axis of the canal whatever, and no invagination of the soft parts, as in the use of the convex truss pads. The whole of the canal is equably compressed, and the deep ring supported by the upper part of the truss."* In the adult so fortunate an issue as a radical cure by such means is not to be hoped for; the rings remain partially dilated, and predisposed to admit of re-descent, on the application of but a sKght exciting cause ; the truss usually, therefore, must be worn for life. Sometimes, however, though rarely, a slight protrusion, which as yet only bulges the parietes at the site of the deep ring, may disappear under the temporary use of a truss, and not again return. In the adult, various measures have been devised for restraining permanently the occurrence of protrusion and the descent of the hernia. Of these, two deserve mention :—1st, By the invagination of a plug of soft parts into the inguinal canal (Wtitzer, Eothemund, Sigmund, Syme, WeUs, Davies, etc.) 2d, By approximation of the textures surrounding the deep ring, and appression and closure of the tendinous boundaries of the hernial canal from one end to the other (Wood). The former methods consist essentially in invaginating a cutaneous mass, derived from the tissues of the scrotum by means of a wooden plug, retaining it there by means of a needle (Wiitzer) which passes through a channel in the plug and penetrates the integuments of the abdomen at a point as near the deep ring as possible; while, over this, attached to the handle of the plug and the projecting needle, is a wooden compressor by which the parts embraced between the plug and the surface are so squeezed as to render them adherent to each other by the inflammatory process thus excited. When this has been accomplished, the presence of the invaginating plug is no longer needed; it is therefore removed, and the parts supported and secured by means of a pad and spica bandage. Mr. Syme has simplified this procedure by substituting a piece of gum- elastic rectum bougie for the invaginating plug, and employing a double ligature which has been carried through the extremity of the plug as a means of retention. The ends of the thread are first introduced by means of a curved needle in a fixed handle—guided by the finger which has invaginated tho skin—through the tendinous textures of the internal ring upon tho inner and outer sides. By drawing upon the ends of the ligature, the plug succeeds the finger, and is retained by tying the ends * On Ruptiire, by John Wood, F.R.C.S.