1304 AFFECTIONS OF THE KNEE AND HAM. ing a large and wide semilunar flap, including tlie patella, on the front of the articulation. The patella in the former mode of incision is removed, in the latter it is retained; the crucial ligaments are then divided, and the condyles of the femur are cleared and cut away above the level of the central notch, by means of a saw with a movable back. The knife is now carried cautiously behind the head of the tibia, and a moderate slice of its articulating surface removed. The bleeding articular vessels hav- ing been tied, the incision is brought into accurate apposition, with the ends of the bone placed in contact; a padded splint is applied behind ; and a fracture-box, or a long splint, or sand-bags, or two side splints wrapped in a sheet and folded so as to come into firm contact with the inner and outer sides of the whole length of the limb, should be also adjusted. In the use of any of these, the apparatus must be so managed and contrived as to facilitate the dressing of the limb. The principal deformity which requires to be overcome is a tendency to rotation out- wards, and eversion of the femur. The process of consolidation is always tardy, occupying months, and often taxing the patience of both surgeon and patient. In carefully chosen cases, however, the results are often most encouraging, and quite repay any trouble or suffering which may have made the daily progress of the case trying to both parties concerned. i If the patella is found greatly diseased, its articulating surface and softened tissues should always be removed freely by means of a gouge. Housejnaid's Knee—that is, enlargement of the bursa over the patella —is extremely common in housemaids, shop-keepers, and others who habitually exert much pressure on this part. The affection is usually chronic ; sometimes, however, the case is acute, and apt then to be associated with an inflammatory process, not only within but external to the bursal sac, diffused along the surrounding areolar tissue. The ordinary treatment is required. Abscess of the Ham is by no means unfrequent; and may be con- nected with exfoliation from the posterior part of the femur. Such abscess usually points at the inner side, throiigh the vastus-internus. When the portion of dead bone is large, considerable difiiculty may be experienced in effecting its removal; and free incision may be necessary. In some cases where the disease is of long standing, the division of the new bone to reach the sequestrum may be a most tedious and arduous operation. It is well, in all cases of necrosis of the lower part of the femur, especially when the knee-joint has already begun to sympathize ^vith the morbid changes going on in the neighbouring parts, to make quite certain that the dead portion of bone is loose, before commencing any operation that involves cutting into the bone; for while success is likely to allay all further irritation, an inefl"ectual effort at the ^ removal has frequently determined acute suppuration within the articulation. In all cases, caution is obviously required, lest injury be done to the artery, vein, or nerve. Ganghonic and bursal enlargements form in the ham, producing more or less incoirvenience ; and these may be mistaken for aneurism. They are treated by repeated puncture by means of a trocar and canula,^ or by puncture followed by injection as in hydrocele, or by blistering applied over the surface as in the case of superficial cysts.