1334 RUPTURE OF THE TENDO ACIIILLIS. week or two, beyond that required in the case of fractuiu After con- solidation, extension is made gradually, lest tlie uniting medium be over- strained, and disruption of it ensue. The patient, when first allowed to move about, with a crutch or stick, is provided with a high-heeled shoo; and, every day or two, a thin slice is cut from this heel, so as to per- mit a gradual approach of the sole to full planting on the ground. Wound of the Tendon is managed in a similar way. Accidental wounds—as by a scythe, knife, or reaping-hook—are usually compound. And, in them, the cure may be facilitated by approximating the two por- tions of tendon by means of silver wire suture. Ununited Tendon.—Cases sometimes pre- sent themselves, in which rupture of this tnedon has not been repaired. The retracted portion has become rounded off; the calca- neous fragment is similarly changed ; and the space between is occupied by a mere shred of uniting material, quite inefficient for re- storing function to the muscles. The hiatus being considerable—perhaps to the extent of two inches, or. more—the limb is quite useless in progression. To remedy this state an inci- sion may be made, the rounded ends of the tendon may be cut off, and approximation may be effected by suture. But this is severe practice. I have applied, quite successfully, the princij)le of subcutaneous section; by a stout needle making raw the extremities of the tendon, and break- ing up the intervening space completely; so restoring the parts to a resemblance of their condition immediately after the original injury; applying the same simple, retentive, and approximating apparatus, as after recent rupture; and, after consolidation, employing the same caution in permitting resumed use of the limb. Laceration of the Muscle.—Instead of tendon giving way, the muscular fibres of the gastrocnemius, soleus, or plantaris graciHs, may yield. The laceration seldom implicates more than a few of the fibres; and the site of injury is usually where the muscular fibre ceases and tendon begins. The causes are the same as those of the former lesion; the symptoms are very similar, and the treatment consists in keeping the parts at rest, supported by a bandage. Fig. 362. Outline of limb, shewing the slipper and ligature useful for maintaining flexion in ruptured tendo Achillis. Fig. 362.