906 DEFORMITIES OF THE HAND. a much better organ of prehension, than any artificial substitute, however ingeniously constructed. Frequently, in consequence of whitlow, or inflammatory change trau- matically induced, it may be in our power to retain a finger, but not without complete anchylosis of all its articulations. And, under such cii'cumstances, it comes to be a question whether it were not better to amputate such a member at once, before anchylosis and cicatrization have occuiTed ; thereby not only shortening the cure, but aLso rendering the hand much more useful— especially in the case of the labouring man, by whom a stiff finger is felt to be constantly in the way. I believe that the question is to be answered in the affirmative—in favour of amputation. The thumb, how- ever, is in all circumstances to be preserved, if possible. Eigid or nol^ it proves extremely serviceable. Another question arises in the case of a hopelessly diseased metacar- pal bone, whose corresponding finger is perfectly sound. May the meta- carpal bone be removed alone, or must the finger be taken along with it? The latter is the preferable practice. The finger left without its metar- carpal bone is worse than useless. Two or even three metacarpal bones, when carious, may be removed, with their corresponding fingers. The operation is preferable to ampu- tation of the whole hand. For, the paramount general rule of saving as much as possible, should ever be respected in such cases. Some years ago, in amputating a metacarpal bone, its base was found carious, and also the corresponding portion of the carpal range. The latter diseased part was removed by means of a gouge; and a most satisfactory cure resulted. Hypertrophy of the Fingers. This rare departure from ordinary nature has been occasionally noticed in young people; affecting one or more fingers; originating from no assignable exciting cause ; consisting of true hypertrophy of aU the textures—bones, joints, tendons, skin, and nails; and accompanied mth more or less deformity, and loss of function. Firm and continued pres- sure may moderate the unnatural growth. If not, inconvenience may be mitigated by amputation—partial or complete. Congenital Deformities of the Hand. Supernumera7'y Fingers are usually attached, not by articidating appa- ratus, but by ordinary integumentary tissues. Their amputation is accordingly very easily effected, by knife and elliptical incision, or by curved scissors. Webbed Fingers are often hereditary; and in some parts of the country are held in esteem. Sometimes the adjoining fingers are fused together, the two nails uniting in one—their duality being marked ouly Fig. 304. Scrofulous necrosis of finger; macerated; after amputation.