1306 FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. sides, may give way by complete rupture, or by partial yielding. These fractures are especitilly liazardous, from the risk which displacement of the sharp fragments inwards entails upon the bladder. Sometimes tlie fragments at tlio seat of the fracture are driven through the peiiiieum, or into the rectum. The tuberosity of the ischium may be separately detached. Crepitus is readily felt by the finger in the rectum or vagina ; and by the same means readjustment of the fractured portions is to be effected. 6. The Acetabulum may be split; the accident is usually the result of violence acting directly upon the trochanter major; and intra-capsular fracture of the neck of the femur may be simulated. There may be no shortening of the limb ; but if the head of the bone has been forced into the pelvis, the shortening may vary from half an inch to an inch and a half. The limb may be either everted or inverted, according to the direction of the violence, and the mode in which impaction has taken place. Crepitus is felt by the finger in the rectum or vagina— when the pelvis is moved, not during mere rotation of the thigh. In treatment, little is to be done in the way of replacement ; the chief care must be directed towards avoidance of motion, and the averting of inflammatory accession. The application of a broad firm bandage sufiices in most cases to fulfil the former indication; in some, however, the long splint should be applied—not to eff'ect extension, but merely to ensure repose. The latter indication is fulfilled in the ordinary way. In all such cases, the catheter should be passed at once ; to deter- mine, by the presence of urine in the bladder, and by ascertaining whether it is clear or tinged with blood, whether any injury has been sustained by the vesical coats. Fractures of the Femur. I. Fracture of the Neck, icithin the Ca2)sule.—This accident is almost peculiar to advanced years; and occurs more frequently in women than in men. The external dense portion of the bone is atrophied, a mere thin shell enclosing the cancellous texture; the neck tends to become rectangular, instead of being oblique, in relation to the shaft of the bone; and there is, besides, the brittleness of the osseous texture peculiar to old age. The accident may be produced by direct violence, as by falls on the hip; more frequently it is the result of indirect violence, as by slip or stumble, of comparatively trivial amount. The upper fragment remains in situ; the loAver fragment is drawn upwards by the muscles of the hip, and rests above and on the brim of the acetabulum—further elevation being resisted by the capsidar ligament. Such displacement may not occur immediately, however; not until spastic action of the muscles takes jilace—perhaps, some hoiirs after receipt of the injury; and if the periosteal investment he not wholly torn through, the displacement after all may be but slight. When shortening, to a marked extent, occurs suddenly after some hours, there is reason to infer that the periosteal investment, at first but partially torn, has then given way entirely. Ey muscular action, also, the lower fragment is everted ; the muscles inserted into the tro- chanteric fossa, inter-trochanteric line, and trochanter minor, especially conducing to this change.