CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. 955 and clotliiiig ; regulation of the bowels ; exposure to good air ; cold bathing; judicious use of medicinal tonics; friction of the back, acting more especially on those muscles which seem most deficient; healthful exercise, both of tlie general body and of the muscles of the trunk—short of fotigue; and i-est in the recumbent posture upon a firm sofa when in-doors, reading or working—will suffice not only to prevent further progress of the disease, but to restore symmetry in most cases. When the curvature has already formed, all active exercise must be abandoned, and the patient must maintain the recumbent or prone position constantly, lying upon a firm mattress or sofa, without pillows to prop and support the back and head. In the course of time the curvature will materially dimi- nish. When this happens, the treatment already recommended for slight and commencing cases should be gradually adopted ; the exercise being frequently taken, but only for so brief a period as shall secure the patient from being fatigued, and the muscles of the spine from being wearied. To produce further improvement, and to enable milliners, dressmakers, governesses, and others in whom the disease is not far advanced, and whose circumstances do not admit of the complete repose from work which such treatment demands, to continue at their avocations uninterruptedly— various ingenious mechanical contrivances have been employed, and have received the sanction of men of note in the profession. The best of these consists of a light, well-padded metal girdle, resting on, and fixed round, the loins and pelvis ; from which a crutch is elevated to support the depressed shoulder, as also a metal bar moving as the radius of a circle; this bar is jointed centrally behind, and controls and tightens a broad elastic belt, firmly fixed in front, which is passed under the arm and round the projecting side of the thorax. Both good judgment and daily attention are required in the use of such an apparatus, if real good is to be secured from its employment. Myotomy has been practised, both in this and in other forms of spinal distortion; but with no good result. The experience of the profession is opposed to it. Rickets is certainly not the least common predisposing cause to spinal distortion. And the curvatures so occasioned are at once the most rapid and decided in their progress, and the least amenable to treatment. The pecuHar characteristic is indication of the rickety state, in the gene- ral appearance, and in the existence of distortion in other parts of the skeleton, as well as in the spinal column. The results of extreme spinal curvature, usually with rotation, are rapidly developed ; and, at the same time, the pelvis and lower limbs, as well as the clavicles and the superior extremities, are somewhat distorted. Usually, the direction of the spinal curvature is lateral; but it may be antero-posterior. The treatment—prophylactic and curative—is conducted on the ordinary therapeutic principles. Here mechanical aids, in the shape of stays and telts, are to be used warily, if at all, as the pressure of such an apparatus as that abeady described, certainly the least objectionable of any, is liable, if effectual in diminishing the curvature of the spine, to inflict commen- surate injury upon the form of the pelvis, which, in the case of the female --m whom the rickety curvature of the spine is most common—would be to mduce, or at least to increase, a more serious, if less obvioiis, defor- "iity than that from which the patient ostensibly suffers.