1374 AMPUTATION AT THE KNEE-JOINT. may improve the appearance of the stump, at tlic time of its formation ; but experience has shown that the procedure is not warrantable, on account of the risk of subsequent inflammatory seizure in the knee-joint. When a short stump is made, the patient usually rests on the knee, witli the log bent at right angles; and to the knee the artificial limb is adapted. When the stump is long, however, the motions of the knee- joint are retained, and the false limb is adapted to the leg immediately above the cicatrix. When stout muscular men sustain such injury of the leg as requires amputation below the knee, a redundancy of flesh cannot fail to be obtained in the flap, by the ordinary mode of operation. And, accord- ingly. Listen advised, in such cases, a modification of the circular amputation. " Supposing the left leg to be injured :—with a common amputating knife an anterior semilunar incision is made through the skin, commencing from the inner side of the tibia, about four fingers' breadth below its superior extremity, and passing over its anterior aspect. A similar semilunar incision is made at the posterior part of the leg, its extremities joining the horns of the previous incision. The integument is then reflected upwards to a sufiicient extent to cover the bones, and the operation is finished after the manner of the circular amputation." Amputation at the Knee-Joint. Latterly, this operation has also been revived; when injury or disease extend no higher than the condyles of the femur, and involve these only to a superficial extent. A semilunar incision is made on the front of the limb, passing beneath the patella ; the integuments are dis- sected up, and transfixion is made behind; by cutting downwards, g, very long flap is made from the back part of the leg ; and, the soft parts having been all detached, section of the bone is made through the con- dyles. Eleeding having been arrested, the flaps are approximated. The operation is easily enough accomplished, but experience seems to have unequivocally decided against its revival More recently, amputation by an anterior flap, according to the modified method of Mr. Teale, has been practised with satisfactory results—the patella being retained, and the bone divided through the cancellated tissue of the condyles. The soft parts which corresponded to the ligamentum patellae and tuberosity now cover the end of the femur, and aff'ord a surface which, like the textmes covering the os calcis, it is not unreasonable to expect, may be calculated efiiciently to support the weight of the trunk at least in part. Amputation of the Thigh. The patient is arranged as for amputation below the Imee, but with the pelvis resting on the edge of the table. The femoral is compressed by an assistant, as it passes over the horizontal ramus of the pubes. Or, in weakly antemic subjects, when the amputation is sufiiciently low down to admit of its use, the tourniquet may be applied to compress the femoral artery in Scarpa's space. The operation is by double flaps. Low down in the thigh, from the tendency to retract, especially on