1221 IIKINOUS ABSCESS. one of two ways; from Avitliout or from within. 1. An atscess may form exteriorly to the urinary passages—excited hy injury, by urethritis, by the irritation of stricture, or by the presence of a stone; and,- in its progress by eulai-gement, it may open into the urethra, or, when com- mencing in the prostatic tissues, into the bhxdder. Then, through the aperture by which the purulent contents escape, urine enters. Its sti- mulus, within the purulent cyst, necessarily kindles a fresh amount of inflammatory iniscliicf. If any obstruction exist in front to the free escape of urine, the distended sac may give way, and urinous infiltration takes pUxce into the surrounding tissues, which, unless relieved by timeous incision, are sure to slough. But if the abscess-sac continues entire, then the escaped urine remains limited within the original cavity, and the state of urinous abscess is estabhshed. The collection may assume quite a chronic character; but, in general, it extends more rapidly than an ordinary acute abscess—hastening to the surface, and discharging thin, dark-coloured, and foetid contents. 2. Sometimes, as already remarked, the affection originates in ulcer- ation of the lining membrane of the urethra. Acute ulceration, and also direct laceration, of the mucous membrane is liable to occur, as we have seen, in the case of retention of urine; then rapid escape of that fluid takes place, under powerful action of the hypertrophied muscle of the bladder; and the most formidable extravasation results. But, un- connected with any such crisis, a more gradual giving way may take place j the urine, escaping first in a few di'ops, may excite an inflamma- tory process; the abscess formed has all the ordinary chai'acters—the important Hmiting barrier of organized lymph not excepted; and, as it enlarges, these are not destroyed. Before the actual ulceration, too, it is probable that an inflammatory process has been slowly advancing in the tissue exterior; which has thus become in some measure consolidated, before any urine has had an opportunity of entrance. Or, as has already been stated, the commencement may not be by ulceration, but by wound or tear—inflicted by an unskilful use of cathe- ters, bougies, or other instruments. "When ulceration is the cause, it may be either immediately behind the stricture, or at some distance posteriorly. The ordinary site is in the perineum. There a hard swelling is discovered, on pressure; the ordinary symptoms of stricture undergo aggravation; shivering and febrile disturbance occur; and, perhaps, by the pressure of the abscess, retention of urine may be occasioned. Treatment consists in making a free external incision, for the evacuation of matter and urine; treating the cause, the stricture, either in tlie ordinary way by dilatation after- wards, or by dividing the stricture upon a grooved staff at the same time. Urmcmj Fistula. This may follow wound in the perineum, implicating the urethra. More frequently, it is the result of urinous abscess. The collection has opened spontaneously in the perineum, temporarily relieving the symp- toms, both of abscess and of stricture ; but, by persistence of the latter, the healing of the abscess is prevented; the irritation of the stricture