406 EFFECTS OF LIGATURE, dividing the artery between; a modification in the deligation of arteriee as old as iEtius, and strenuously advocated by Abernethy. Various points may be stated in favour of this mode of operation. The artery retracts freely, and thereby thickens its parietes, while it contracts its calibre ; the ligature is brought into close contact with healthy structures; and consequently there may be less chance of suppuration, ulceration, and hemorrhage. Besides, it has been thought important—especially in the case of the carotid—to avoid the double impulse which a single liga- ture has to sustain ; the one direct from the heart; the other dependent on the collateral circulation. Most certainly, if the ordinary operation have been improperly conducted; that is, if in our attempts to expose the vessel cleanly, it have been detached too extensively from its sur- rounding connections—thereby rendering the occurrence of either ulcera- tion or sloughing more than probable—let two ligatures be applied; one at each extremity of the separated portion. The main objection to di- viding the artery, is the risk incurred in such a procedure of wounding the accompanying vein or veins, or other textures of importance. The effects of the ligature, well applied, are as follows :—There is mechanical arrest of the arterial flow at the deligated point; throwing a stress on the collateral circulation ; and, by weakening the main current, on the distal aspect of the ligature, favouring fibrinous deposit within the aneurismal sac from the circulating blood, with gradual solidification of the tumour. The internal and middle coats of the artery should be at once cut cleanly through, as with a knife. They resile on each side of the ligature, and the noose of this embraces and puckers together only the external coat. The cut surfaces of the inner coat are kept in close contact; and, being cleanly incised, in close apposition, and free from compression by the ligature, they unite by adhesion. Plastic product takes place for this purpose—furnished mainly, it is probable, by the connective tissue of the external coat—extending to a little distance on each aspect of the ligature ; and by it, becoming fully organized, the arterial canal at that part is permanently and firmly closed. And this salutary process is facilitated by means of a coagulum, which commences to form almost immediately after the application of the ligature. On the cardiac aspect of the ligature the blood is at once thrown into a condition of comparative stillness, favourable for coagulation, whicli sometimes ex- tends up to the nearest collateral branch ; and the result usually is, the pro- duction of a slim and tapering clot—its base resting on the arterial tissue at the deligated point, its apex loose, and extending upwards a longer or shorter distance—non-adherent, in the first instance, to the coats of the vessel. This—slender though in most cases it is—will doubtless have the effect of removing the blood's impulse from the site of the new pro- duct, and so will facilitate completion of the process of occlusion. "Whence it is obvious how anatomical knowledge may often be of ser- vice, in directing selection of the site of deligation, to a point Avhcre no collateral branch is given oflF in the immediate and cardiac vicinitj'. Otherwise, there might be, instead of remora, an increased tumult of circulation at the part which is undergoing the process of obstruction. Plastic change is not limited to within the vessel. It occurs, and more extensively, on its exterior ; forming a dense swelling of some size,