277 ABSORPTION OF BONE. disintegration of the hone; occurring not continuously, hut at points, hatliing these in thin sero-purulent Huid. In such circumstances the symptoms are more pronounced ; the part more painful and swoln. And the affection is apt to he merged, hy aggravation, into a continuous and acute destruction of the hone. In other words, we believe that the " worm-eaten" change of bone, observed in macerated specimens of disease, may result either from absorp- tion or ulceration ; in the one case, chronic and not attended with suppura- tion ; in the other more or less acute and purulent; and that these two forms frequently occur together as gradations of the same inflammatory process. The Treatment of the former, when occurring by itself, consists in attention to the general health, rest, and counter-irritation—gentle, but pei-severingly maintained until the symptoms have satisfactorily disap- peared. And then a roborant and soothing plaster may be worn for some time with advantage ; as the emplastrum opiatum, spread on thick leather. Among medicines, colchicum, iodine, guiacum, mercury, quinine with opium in the rheumatic and gouty cases, and cod-liver oil and iodide of iron in strumous patients, are specially useful. 2. Continuous.—This is the result of pressure; sufficient to stimulate increased absorption, and to prevent normal formation of tissue ; but not of such a kind as to modify the condition of the nutrient centres to the requisite degree for rousing the inflammatory process. There is gradual loss of substance; and so a cavity may be formed in the bone, even to a large extent, slowly, and sometimes almost without pain. After death, it may present, on the surface acted on by the compressing agent, the same porous aspect as that of bone undergoing interstitial inflammatory change ; but pathologically it differs widely from this. There is no increased cell development, no formation of pus, no disintegrative crum- bling. The parts retain their vitaUty undiminished; but, having their nutrition impaired by the gradual aggressive pressure, are not replaced when removed in the ordinary process of decay. So soon, however, as the compression is removed, they again become restored, more or less completely, to their normal model. Examples of continuous absorption are afforded in the case of gra- dual compression of bone by aneurism, chronic abscess, solid or cystic tumours—slowly enlargmg. There is but one mode of treatment—removal of the cause ; as by opening the abscess, cure of the aneurism, evacuation of the cystic tumour. No doubt, could the solid tumour be similarly removed, the healthy but expanded and partially absorbed osseous tissue by which it is surrounded would return to its natural size, shape, and condition; but as this is impossible, the portion of bono implicated must be sacrificed in order to effect the removal of the tumour. liyioertrojphy of Bone. _ Bone is liable to simple enlargement, by excess of growth; slow, pamless, and independent of the inflammatory process. Long bones are thus increased in thickness ; and may be elongated also ; producing both