376 TOPHI. more important affection. Originating exteriorly to the joint, this sooner or Liter is involved—usually at a very early period ; and the case may then be considered as one truly of rheumatic synovitis. But the chronic form very often is not only originally, but permanently wholly exterior to the articulation. Or, if the latter do sympathize, it ig only in a very minor degree; not greater sympathy than the exterior often shews in the less serious inflammatory affections of the joint. The inflammatory process is ordinarily of a low grade, as well as chronic in its nature ; situated in the periosteal investment of the articulating extremities of the bones, in the fibrous tissues exterior to the joint, or in both. The progress, results, and treatment of this affection have already been considered. Tophi.—These are concretions connected with the extreme joints, more particularly of the fingers; sometimes within the articulation, more frequently exterior to it—at least in the first instance ; and are coin- posed of the urate of soda. They are undoubtedly connected with, and probably owe their origin to the gouty diathesis. They may remain in an inactive state, either stationary or gradually enlarging, for a long period. Or imperfect suppuration may occur on the surface ; opening the skin, and disclosing the concrete matter slo^v^ly disintegrating, and crumbling tardily away with thin puriform discharge. And this may be accompanied with some pain, and with redness and swelling of the ■ surrounding integument. Or chronic and imperfect suppuration and softening may pervade the whole mass, instead of being limited to the surface. This however is a comparatively harmless event; seeing that . the proper texture of the joint has been previously annihilated, by ■ gradual structural change—antecedent to the peculiar deposit, or at least i co-existent with it. What was the joint may be opened into; but the cir- - cumstance will not be marked by any of these serious consequences which would be certain to accrue, did any part of the synovial apparatus ? remain. ; Such concretions, when fairly formed, are plainly but little amenable pJ to local treatment. The great object is to prevent their formation) by rj constitutional management directed against their cause. Neuralgia of Joints. Examples of local irritation in joints are not unfrequent; in which I the inflammatory process is almost wholly in abeyance. The prominent ji characteristic is pain; unaccompanied by swelHng, or other indication ■ of structural change. The affection may be primary; constituting a j disease per se. Or it may be secondary ; merely a symptom of an earlier and more grave disorder. In the Icnee, for example, we may have ner- * vous pain, either as a symptom of morbus coxarius, or a truly neuralgic * affection of that part independent of disease elsewhere. Although, i indeed, the last observation must be made with some reservation; inas-« much as there are found but few cases of neuralgia, in that or any other j joint, which are not more or less connected with a perverted state as to > structure, function, or both, in some of the internal organs. Neuralgic affection of the joints is characterised by a class of synip- f