223 THE TYING OF ARTERIES. been fairly established, natural hemostatics are overborne, and copious reactionary liemorrhago, or " after bleeding," ensues. Wliat were before mere oozings, are noAV distinct and active streams, each demanding liga- t\ire; and rendering a painful undoing of the wound, for this purpose,, absolutely indispensable. To avoid this, such vessels should bo tied at the same time, and in the same way, as the larger trunks. Better apply one or two ligatures, even unnecessarily, than encounter the risk of re- actionary bleeding—perhaps seriously injurious ; and of fresh deligation— always troublesome and painful. In reference to this subject, it is well to remember that it is not an ordinary reaction with which we have to do ; but one whereby the wonted contents of the obstructed main vessels are thrown upon small collateral branches, which, in consequence, are unusually excited to hemorrhage. When an artery has been cut obliquely, as is likely to happen in amputation by flaps, especial care must be taken that the orifice is well pulled out from the surrounding textures, previously to deligation ; otherwise, the noose may be thrown upon the oblique arterial wound, ' instead of behind it; and the artery, thus left partially open, cannot fail to bleed. If an artery be not cut across but merely punctured, or a piece cut out of it, two hgatures are essential; one above, the other below the opening. One hgature, on the cardiac aspect, may arrest bleeding for a time; but, so soon as collateral circulation has become fully established, the distal orifice will bleed almost as profusely as did the other. There is no safety but in two ligatures. And the same rule holds good in regard to an artery, when cut across, whose distal orifice remains im- I bedded in living texture. For example, in amputation of the thigh, the i femoral artery requires but one ligature ; but if a mere wound be made I in the thigh, implicating that vessel, both distal and cardiac orifices must be secured; free dilatation of the wound, if necessary for tliis end, being imhesitatingly performed. Sometimes an arterial orifice is surrounded by textures so dense, as I to render the ordinary use of ligature impracticable. In such a case, if pressure fail, or seem unsuitable, we may be compelled to apply the liga- ture somewhat clumsily ; in order to avoid the gi-eater evil of unneces- sary loss of blood. A curved suture-needle is passed through the bleeding point; so as to transfix it, and yet include as little as possible of the surrounding parts ; and, around the needle's convexity, the liga- ture is secured—very tightly. The needle is then either withdrawn, or I permitted to remain for a time ; according as circumstances may seem to ( indicate. Or the needle may be carried through the textures so as to ; surround the bleeding point in the loop of the ligature which follows; K and on tying this, the vessel and the textures with which it is surrounded ' are so constricted as to prevent futher bleeding. When the bleeding points have been all secured, the ligatures then come to be arranged, with a view to dressing the wound. If this be left open to suppurate, and heal by granulation, both ends of each liga- ture are cut away close to the knot; the knot loosens in due time, and passes away with the discharge. If, however, we intend to bring the i wound together, and treat it for adhesion, one half only of the li^iture