997 OVARIAN DISEASE. uterus may be so fixed in the pelvis by compression between it and the tumour, or by adhesions, as to render the signs derivable from a vaginal examination also nugatory. The history of ovariotomy too truly shows that tlie diseases may be mistaken for one another, even by the most experienced and able physicians. The chief distinctive marks are the following:—A fibrous tumour is often observed first in the centre of the hypogastrium—an ovarian tumour generally at one side ; a fibrous tumour grows more slowly than an ovarian; it has no fluctuation, and is generally harder and much less movable than a diseased ovary; it is more frequently accompanied by menorrhagia and leucorrhoea; the uterus is generally somewhat prolapsed, especially if the tumour is not of great size ; the uterus feels heavy, and cannot be moved without moving the tumour; the cavity of the uterus is also often elongated; sometimes it is shortened ; frequently the shape and plurality of the tumours are distinctive. In illustration and proof of the great difiiculties which attend the diagnosis of ovarian disease, and of the errors liable to be made, even when the gro^vth is so developed as to appear to demand an operation, we may cite the following fact in regard to 162 cases in which incision of the ovary was attempted. In 60 of these there was either no ovarian disease at all, or its removal was found impracticable,* The management of ovarian dropsy is either palliative or radical. Besides the ordinary treatment for intercurrent inflammatory attacks —and for derangements of the functions of the stomach, bowels, kidneys, and bladder—the most important palhative measures are tapping and pressure. Recourse to the former has been recommended early in this affection ; but it is a very questionable proceeding, and one, besides, which we rarely have an opportunity of trying, as women seldom com- plain till the disease is far advanced. Tapping is not advisable, except under rare circumstances, till the accumulation has become intolerable to the patient, from its large size impeding respiration and progression, and causing much local pain and suffering; perhaps producing vomiting, or suppression of urine, by pres- sure on the stomach or kidneys. It is a very simple operation, and the danger supposed to attend it in ordinary cases has probably been exag- gerated, in the statistical tables of Southam, Stafford, Lee, Atlee, and others ; which, embracing all cases, do no doubt include many in which it was resorted to in despair, or as a mere temporary means of allevia- tion—the patient's strength being already worn out by the disease, or compromised by some other affection. The dangers chiefly to be appre- hended are—syncope, the lighting up of suppuration in the lining of the cyst or cysts, and the supervention of peritonitis. It is performed thus, whether operating for ovarian dropsy or for ascites :—The patient having been seated on the side of a bed, or on a chair, has the abdomen tightly girded by a sheet or flannel bandage; the ends of which are held by two assistants, directed to pull steadily and firmly as the fluid escapes—so as to maintain equable pressure on the abdominal contents, and obviate the sudden loss of sup- port to these, which might otherwise occur, and fi'om which serious * Lancet, Dec. 6, 1851.