1085 DISINTEGRATION. Having, by sounding, ascertained tlio existence of Vesical Calcnlus, the treatment of it naturally resolves itself into tlie following indications:— I. Assist Nature's of art to cxjM the offending body.—This, obvi- ously, is applicable only to calculi of small size; those, for example, which have recently descended from the kidney. Their natural pro- gress is outward, with the current of urine. And in females this is usually effected readily; the urethra being short, straight, capacious, with its current imjietuous ; and hence one reason why vesical calculus in the female is rare. In males, however, there are many obstacles. The urethra is both long and tortuous, it is comparatively narrow besides, and its current is proportionally defective in expulsive force ; spasm, too, is Hable to interfere. And yet, judiciously assisting Nature, small stones may be thus got rid of; by dilatation of the urethra, diluents, and forcible voidance of the urine. By the occasional introduction of bougies the urethra is brought to more than the normal dimensions, while its irritability is also diminished ;* and by the use of diluents the flow of bland mine is considerably increased. It is well, also, to accustom the bladder to considerable distension by its contents. Then, with the bladder full, and the urethra occupied by a full-sized bougie, the patient stands stooping ; and, the bougie having been suddenly withdra-\vn, evacuation is made in as full and forcible a stream as possible. In the case of enlarged prostate, the main obstacle to the escape of a small stone by the uretlu'a is at the lower or posterior part of the outlet ; it is well, therefore, under such circumstances, that the patient expel his urine in the prone positioiL The only objection to this mode of treatment, is the risk of arrest in the xu-ethra, inducing retention of urine with its many dangers. IT. Attempt Disintegmtion medicinally.—Attempts at expulsion having failed, or being deemed inadvisable, the following other modes of removal may be thought of; solution within the bladder, forcible abduction by the urethra, disintegration by mechanical means, excision. The fii'st of these indications may be attempted in two ways; by medicines given by the mouth ; and by injections into the bladder. Of the former class of remedies, the alkalies are the most prominent; especially the carbonates of soda and potass, given in small doses very copiously diluted—imitations of the natural waters of Vichy, of repute in calculous disorders. The oxalate of lime calculus resists their influence. But the uric formations may be benefited in two ways ; alkalies thus given tend to correct the diathesis whereby the calculus has arisen, and at the same time have undoubtedly a sedative and corrective efiect on the urinary orgnns—improving the secretion of the kidneys, and assuag- ing the irritability and disorder of the mucous coat of the bladder. They arrest the growth, and palliate the symptoms of stone ; and experience would seem to say, that a slow and uncertain diminution of the stone occurs during their sustained use. Farther, the voice of experience cer- tainly conveys the fact, that their continued use—provided it be in small doses, greatly diluted—has no injurious consequences either on the renal secretion or on the general health. * It ha.g been proposed to introduce belhadonna into the rectum, so that the neck of the- bladder may be relaxed and dilated—like the iris.