AFFECTIONS OF MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 1177 be discouraged; perfumed oil even tending to increase the risk of a pus- tular eruption becoming developed on the scalp. Shaving the head, which is so commonly recommended and practised, is not of the very- slightest advantage; except that the wig which it necessitates serves to conceal the thinness of the hairy covering. 2. Alopecia proper.—This form of falling out of the hair takes place either in large patches or sparsely, in those parts where the pustular and tubercular forms of eruption have occurred, followed by ulceration involv- ing the hair bulbs in the destructive process. In this case, a white, perfectly bald patch is left, and remains permanently devoid of hair, admitting of no remedial treatment except that which is calculated to arrest the progress of the pustular or tubercular eruption on which it depends. 3. Calvities implies complete baldness of the whole surface ; the skin assuming the glossy smoothness of ivory, from the disappearance of every vestige of hair, or even down, from its surface. This form is very rarely seen at the present day. When it occurs it accompanies the advanced period of the syphilitic infection, and is always incurable. Syphilitic onycliia presents two forms ; one accompanying the squa- mous eruption, and producing a nail thickened, furrowed, and sometimes distorted from its normal axis; the other commonly called onychia maligna, and usually accompanying the pustular crustaceous eruptions upon the surface. Here the nail is shed; and in its place, a thickened, curdy, or cuticular formation is developed from the ulcerating matrix and surface naturally covered by the nail. In the first form, painting the extremity of the finger with iodine will usually restore normal development of the part. In the second, nitrate of silver in solution, of the strength of forty grains to the ounce of water, may advantageously be painted from day to day over the raw tender surface and the site of the matrix; the part being wrapped, after each application, in cotton wool or dry lint. In obstinate blister will produce a more speedy change for the better in the condition of the part; after which a poultice, and then a solution of sulphate of copper, or of the permanganate of potash—or the red lotion—may be employed to hasten healthy granulation and healing. Diday recommends in cases of onychia, the use of an india-rubber finger stool filled with a mixture of gum and mercurial plaster, with olive oil in such quantity as to render it soft. In cases which resist this simpler treatment, and where the irritation is great, the nail, if it stiU remains, should be removed, and the matrix and ulcerated surface touched with caustic potash. In the first class, the constitutional treatment appropriate to secondary syphilis should be adopted; in the second, that for the transitional symptoms is to be employed. Secondary SypMliiic affections of Mucous Membrane. These, like the cutaneous affections, present different appearances according to the stage of advancement in the syphihtic infection j and, in a general way, they correspond to the eruptive affections upon the skin, and seem merely to bo modifications of these, produced by the nature of the surface upon which they appear, and the circumstances in