511 TETANUS. causing a ghastly suiile. Dryness and soreness of the mouth are felt; swallowing and mastication are difficult; the neck becomes more and tuoro rigid; and attempts to swallow—fluids especially—are apt to in- ince convulsive eftbrts, perhaps threatening suffocation. Ultimately, the jaw becomes firmly closed; the masseters and temporals feeling hard and bulgijig. All tlie muscles of the face are involved. The forehead is much wrinkled, both longitudinally and transversely ; and the eyebrows, by the action of each corrugator superciUi, are closely approximated, form- ing a sharp angular curve at their inner and highest part. The eyes, usually, are not fully opened ; the orbicularis and levator seeming almost to neutralize each other. The eyeballs are distorted, and fixed. The aostrils ai-e dilated. The angles of the mouth are drawn much backwards, and (the elevators predominating over the depressors) are somewhat elevated. The orbicularis oris binds the lips firmly on the teeth ; which however, are now ahvays more or less seen. The expression (Misus Sar- donicus) is indicative of much suffering, and quite peculiar to the disease ; it may indeed be said to be pathognomonic. The marked change of countenance has not been long assumed, when a distressing pain occurs at the lower part of the sternum, shooting backwards in the direction of the diaphragm; accompanied by spasms of that muscle, impeding and disturbing respiration. This is the first of the involuntary muscles which is affected. They now, however, become more and more involved. The spasms are more intense; sometimes remitting, even to a consider- able extent, but never undergoing complete intermission. Exacerbation is induced by the slightest external cause. In general, the whole body becomes fixed and rigid ; occasionally distorted by convulsive move- ments. The abdominal muscles are especially affected; the recti have sometimes been torn by the violence of contraction. The arms usually are the last disordered; and the fingers sometimes continue mobile to the last. The tongue, too, remains long free; when affected, it tends to protrude between the teeth—if the muscles of the jaw undergo temporary relaxation—only, however, to be bitten by them during the next access of spasm; then bloody saliva trickles from the grinning mouth, fearfully aggiavating the already horrible expression of countenance. The sphinc- ters are usually contracted. The bowels are obstinately constipated; partly from the cause just stated; but mainly from inherent derange- ment of the functions of the whole alimentary system. When movement is obtained, matters much changed from the normal state, and of remark- able fcetor, are passed in great abundance; shewing great derangement of the intestinal canal to be a marked and invariable symptom. And, as already stated, this derangement may also, with much probability, be considered as connected with the origin of the disease. There is diffi- culty in passing water, from spasm of the muscular fibres at the neck of the bladder, and in the perineum; occasionally there is marked relaxa- tion of these, during which the detrusor may squirt forth the urine with much force. Intense pain accompanies the spasmodic exacerbations; and there is generally a profuse perspiration from the whole surface, sometimes emitting a peculiar and pungent odour. The pulse at first may be both strong and full; Imt it soon falls from the sthenic type, oecommg rapid, weak, and indistinct. No delirium, or other apparent