MORTIFICATION FROM COLD. 138 tinuance of the cause, may be carried so far as altogether to annihilate vital power. The part, in truth, is frozen to death; becoming cold, in- sensible, shrivelled, and discoloured; by and , by undergoing obvious chemical change, and becoming detafhod by the ordinary process of seijaration. This is likely to occur only in very cold climates ; and even then, only when the individual is exposed to hardship and priva- tion. The parts most liable to be so ajffected, are those most remote from the centre of circulation, and consequently by nature less fully endowed by vital power;—and also those most habitually exposed to atmospheric inclemency—as the toes and feet, and the tips];of the nose and ears. Much more frequently the action is indirect. Cold is applied ; and the lowering result follows, as usual, to a greater or less extent. Then the cold is suddenly removed; or, very lilcely, warmth with the addi- tional stimulus of friction is applied. And the inevitable consequence is immature and excessive reaction in the tissues of the part, followed by dilatation of the blood-vessels, and the admission of blood rushing back ; thus hurrying on the inflammatory process in a part whose vital power has been enfeebled. The inflammatory onset is sudden and intense; power of resistance and control is low j gangrene is inevitable. It is not the patient who is simply exposed to diminished temperature, that suffers from chilblain—chronic inflammatory process in a debilitated part; or from frost-bite—the inflammatory process, more acute, having reached slough- ing. But it is the patient who, after exposure to cold, warms himself at the fire, or simply enters a heated room ; or who, not contented with abstracting cold, and applying heat, adds friction to the affected part. Illustrations of this are of constant occurrence; but there is one, on a large scale, which, though trite, is altogether so apposite and striking, that it may be well, by way of corroboration, briefly to notice it here. In his narrative, after the battle of Eylau, Baron Larrey says—" During three or four exceedingly cold days that preceded the battle, the mercury having fallen so low as fifteen degrees below zero of Eeaumur's thermo- meter, and until the second day after the battle, not a soldier complained of any symptom depending on freezing of the parts ; notwithstanding Fig. 37. Chronic gangi'ene of the feet, after exposure to cold. Separotiou con- siderably advanced.