572 TREATMENT OF HRUISE. mosis, and the inflcanimatoiy results, disappear ; aud the part is restored almost, to its normal condition. If an arterial branch have been ruptured, of considerable size, swell- ing forms rapidly; and is distinctly fluctuating and pulsating; consisting of escaped blood, yet in the fluid state; and either directly receiving its impulse from the still open vasculous communication, or from the im- pulse of an artery of some importance with which it lies in contact. After a time, partial coagulation takes place ; the clot being arranged at the circumference of the swelling, and the fluid portion occupying the centre. It is most important that this be distinguished from acute abscess ; for it requires very diflPerent treatment. There need be no dif- ficulty. The one is immediate, the other of secondary formation; the abscess is necessarily preceded and attended by all the usual symptoms of the inflammatory process, the other is not. The same process of de- cadence takes place, as in ordinary bruise; swelling ceases; discoloration becomes marked and varied; extravasation, both solid and fluid, is absorbed ; and, ultimately, the normal colour and form are both re- stored When an artery of some importance has given way, false aneurism may form, and follow the ordinary course. Or the vessel may speedily become obliterated, at the ruptured part, as in the more ordinary case just mentioned. The extravasation then gradually disappears, in the usual way. Hie indications oj treatment in bruise are, like those in sprain, to avert inflammatory accession, to promote absorption of extravasation and inflammatory product, and to restore function. Eest, fomentation, anti- phlogistics when required ; followed by friction, support, and gradual resumption of use. When the tendency to sanguineous extravasation is great and obvious, the application of cold, or immediate and uniform pressure, may be expedient, for a time, in order to restrain the accumula- tion. However great the extravasation may be, even though attended with pain and tension of the integument, incision should never be prac- tised, at least in the first instance. Many ounces of blood may be ab- sorbed in a short time, leaving the part but little injured by the temporarj^ malposition. But, should only the most careful puncture be made, in even slight cases, the atmospheric stimulus is almost certain to induce inflammatory excess; profuse and unhealthy suppuration ensues; in- cision is then required, in earnest, to save texture; the system is un- towardly involved; and the cure is both tedious and unsatisfactory. Keep the skin entire; leave the blood to Nature during the period of probable excitement; and afterwards contribute towards absorption, by friction, pressure, or other suitable stimuli. A solution of the muriate of ammonia often proves a grateful and efiicient sorbefacient, in such cases. Where, however, the swelling is rapidly increasing, where neither cold nor pressure prevent its continuance, where symptoms of internal hemorrhage begin to manifest themselves, then an incision may be made with every propriety, and the bleeding vessels secured either by ligature, or by pressure—now more accurately applied than it could have been before. Should suppuration take place in the infiltrated part, then free and