THE OPENING OF ABSCESS. 90 the cure; what is dependent in the erect posture, may not be so in the semi-erect or recumbent. Wlien abscess forms in the immediate vicinity of large and important blood-vessels, as in the neck, it may T)c alleged, in excuse for delay, tliat early incision cannot be made in such circumstances, without risk to the >''essels. It is not so. The abscess is a safe protection from the point of the bistoury; being usually interposed between this and the vessels— the latter on the fiu-ther aspect. They may be injured, it is true, by a reckless plunge of the knife, or by an imnecessarily extensive thrust: but such things are not contemplated in the hands of a duly qualified practitioner. Any considerable quantity of matter having formed, in immediate contact with the common sheath of the large blood-vessels of the neck, an incision may be made fearlessly down on the ordinary and normal site of these parts, without dread of hazard. In the case of an early incision, the abscess protects the vessels—^from the knife's point; when opening is delayed, the abscess may become their destroyer—^by its own agency. When the incision has been made through a considerable tliickness of parts, there is a chance of the line of woimd uniting prematurely; ere yet the cavity of the abscess has closed, or its interior ceased from purulent secretion. Ee-establishment of the abscess necessarily results. To avoid tliis, such premature union is to be prevented; by the lodg- ment of a foreign body in the track. However simple and slight such foreign matter be, it is sufificient to prevent adhesion. A thin slip of lint is gently inserted with a probe, and retained. AU stufiing and cram- ing of the wound is not only unnecessary, but injurious ; painful at the time, and sure to excite subsequently a grave amount of inflammatory accession, followed by new and more extensive suppui-ation. Squeezing of the part, after incision, is equally reprehensible. Much unnecessary pain is inflicted, and the inflammatory process is not only maintained but aggravated; a fresh exciting cause is applied. If the opening be dependent and free—as it should be—^the matter will find its way out readily enough. So soon as the knife is withdrawn, and the more immediate gush of pus removed, a soft warm poultice is applied; and into this the fluid continues gradually to ooze. But should the wound shew a tendency to bleed unduly, the poultice should not be applied until the flow of blood has ceased. When the contents of an abscess are of a flaky and semi-solid consistence, as often happens in patients of tubercuhu- tendency, the aperture should be especially free, so as to facilitate and insure an efiectual discharge. Poulticing is continued until the inflammatory process which attended on the suppuration, and which has been somewhat increased by addition of the fresh stimulus of incision, satisfactorily abates ; imtil the textures have been sufficiently relaxed, and purulent discharge fully established ; such discharge seeming often to have a resolutive efi'ect. But poulticing may be, and often is, overdone. If continued after decadence of the inflammatory attack, harm is done by over-relaxing texture, maintaining congestion, and consequently prolonging redundant discharge ; pus, too, may come to occupy infiltrated parenchyma, where but serum or lymph