ATROPHY OF BONE. 276 the very evil noAV contended with. By many the bicliloride is considered the preferable Ibriu in such cases ; given cautiously, in doses of a twelfth or sixteenth of a grain, thrice daily ; either simply in solution, or in pill with sarsaparilla and guaiac; its use to be discontinued, so soon as the symptoms have satisfactorily given way. The bin-iodide of mercury, too, is suitable. And the camphorated mercurial ointment, with extract of belladonna, or opium, forms an excellent local application in many of these cases. But, as a general rule, mercury in any form is never to be given in periostitis, especially so as to produce a constitutional effect, unless other and safer means have proved unavailing. That mineral, we well know, is as likely to cause as to cure. Neuralgia of the Periosteum. This membrane is sometimes the seat of neuralgic affection. It may follow amputation; it sometimes results from a comparatively trifling injury. The part affected is usually of no great extent. The skin is free from redness and swelling, but very sensitive; there may be no apparent change of structure in either periosteum or bone; but in the former texture severe pain is felt, varying and intermittent—in short, presenting all the usual neuralgic characters. East, endermic application of the nitrate of silver, or the subcutaneous injection of anodynes, and the inter- nal administration of iron, bark, or some other of the many constitutional remedies held available in neuralgia, constitute the treatment. This faihng, benefit may perhaps be obtained from the lodgment of a seton over the affected part. Neuralgia of Bone. Like the periosteum, bone is liable to be thus affected, llie symptoms and treatment are similar. Females are the ordinary patients ; hysterical, and of the neuralgic temperament. The head of the tibia is probably the part most frequently affected ; and, not uncommonly, some slight injury is assigned as the originating cause. If the pain should happen to be both great and fixed, limited abscess in the interior of the bone may be somewhat closely simulated. Diag- nosis mainly rests on the constitutional indications, the character of the pain, and the effect of tentative treatment. Atro2')liy of Bone. If normal interstitial absorption, in conjunction with deficient nutri- tion, affects the whole of a bone, the result is wasting or atrophy. Often it is an indirect and remote consequence of the inflammatory process. In what is ordinarily termed " white swelling" of the knee- jomt, for example, wasting of the bones of the Hmb, more especially of the femur, is almost an invariable concomitant of the confinement to a sedentary or recumbent posture. Sometimes, in such cases, the wasted bones become so soft as to bo readily cut with a knife. This state of matters is to be obviated by atttention to the general health ; but, chiefly, by cure of the articular disease, and consequent resumption of the wonted