296 NECKOSIS. only in failure and loss. Tlio system may be gradually worn out by the suppuration and its hectic. Or under the formidable irritative fever Avhich follows the open condition of the abscess, the patient may speedily succumb. Death of Bone, or Necrosis. This may be the immediate result of external injury, the bone at once parting with its vitality; as in extreme burns, in which all the component textures of the limb are instantly converted into an inanimate eschar. Much more frequently, it is the indirect result of injury ; the bone perishing by an overpowering inflammatory attack. When unac- companied by any other form of disease, it is said to be Simple ; Com- plicated, on the other hand, if combined with caries, or attendant on fracture, as not unfrequently happens. When consequent on Avound or other external injury, it is called Traiunatic; Idiopathic, when originat- ing without any appreciable exciting cause. Often in the young, a bone, with its periosteum, is seized upon by an acute and intense inflammatory process without any apparent reason, rapidly becomes the seat of sup- puration, and dies to a greater or less extent. Also, necrosis may be either Chronic or Acute. Or, rather, the ostitis, which leads to local death, may be either chronic or acute. For the major part of necrosis—that is, separation of the dead portion of bone, and formation of its substitute—is invariably chronic; at least occupying long time in its completion. The extent of necrosis is very various. A mere leaf or scale of bone may perish on the external surface ; and this is termed Exfoliation. A larger and considerable portion of the laminated texture may die ; or this may retain its vitality, while the cancellated interior perishes. The dead portions, or Sequestra, are called External and Internal accordingly; aiid like terms are applied to the necrosis. Or the whole thickness of the bone dies, in one continuous mass ; and the disease is then said to be General. This general necrosis varies much in its extent. Sometimes but a slight portion of a long bone so perishes and is thrown off; sometimes several inches ; sometimes nearly the whole. But it is seldom that the entire bone suffers. Usually the articulating extremities remain; the line of separation occurring there ; a fact which has been long recognized by the sui'geon, and that gladly, as compassing two good ends. First, the process of reproduc- tion or repair is thereby facilitated ; second, the joints are saved from purulent irruption, and from the inflammatory destruction which would necessarily follow. Wbile the cancellous tissue of bone is prone to caries, necrosis is of more frequent occurrence in the dense and compact portions of the skele- ton. And this in part accounts for the salutary fact just stated ; namely, that necrosis generally stops at the articulating ends of the bones. The articulating ends of the long bones are not exempt, hoAvever, either from involvement in general necrosis of the shaft, or from the Fig. 122. Sequestrum ; seen laterally ; the external portion smooth, the internal rouf;h and irregulai-.