1321 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. from direct blows or falls upon the hip or trochanter. It may take place at any time of life ; but most frequently affects the young or middle-aged adult. In youth it is rare—except in the congenital form; in old ago, fractui'O of the neck of the femur is much more likely to occur. I. Dislocation upwards and bacJcwards on tlie Dorsum of the Ilium.— This is by for the most frequent form of the injury; usually resulting from a fall under a heavy weight, when the body is bent forwards, the limb being adducted and rotated inwards. Forcible rotation of the limb inwards has sometimes sufficed for its production; and forcible flexion of the body upon the thigh, when fixed in a position of adduction and rotation inwards, favours its occurrence. The mechanism of the displace- ment varies with the degree of flexion. When the trunk and limb are nearly in the same straight line, the head of the bone is usually forced directly upwards and backwards through the tense upper part of the capsule. When, again, the limb and anterior surface of the trunk are flexed upon each other, the posterior and lower part of the capsule is torn over the head of, the bone, which passes out of the articulation in the direction of the dislocation into the sciatic notch, and secondarily assumes the position upon the dorsum ilii. This distinction is of im- portance in effecting reduction of the dislocation. Examination is best made in the erect posture. The limb, shortened from an inch and a half to two inches,* is rotated inwards, and at the same time adducted, so that the toes rest on the opposite instep, the knee being somewhat advanced and carried across the front of its fellow. Motion is much abridged, especially in an outward direction. The trochanter is pre- ternaturally near the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. There is a hollow in the groin, and a diminution of the normal promi- nence of the trochanteric region. The roundness of the gluteal space is at the same time enlarged, though less broad than on the sound side"; and on manipulating this swelling, the head of the bone may be felt rolling in its new site, during rotation of the knee inwards. Fracture of the neck of the femur, bruise of the hip, and morbus coxarius, are the conditions likely to be mistaken for this dislocation. It is hard, however, to see how, with a proper acquaintance, with the symptoms of dislocation, any mistake should occur. Diagnosis rests on the following points :—In dislocation, the motions of the limb, both voluntary and forced, are abridged; there is invariably adduction and inversion of the foot, and this adduction and inversion cannot be undone, until reduction has been effected ; the toes may be moved round forcibly, but the whole body turns with them; on extension being made, the normal length of the limb cannot be restored, until reduction has occurred; and then there will be no recurrence of the shortening, unless fracture of the brim or floor of the acetabulum co-exist, Eversion of the toes, so that the limb lies upon the outer side, can never exist in a dislocation upon the dorsum ilii. True crepitus is felt only in the case of fracture. The occurrence of dislocation is much more rare than that of fracture ; and, while dislocation may happen at any age, fracture within the capsule seldom if ever is found under the age of fifty. Fracture * According to Malgaigiie, the shortening never exceeds half an inch.