CHAPTER LVIL CALCULOUS DISEASE. Urinary Calculi. Healthy urine is a straw-coloured or amber-coloured fluid, retaining all its elements in solution, with the exception of an almost infinitesimal quantity of mucus, which may in most cases he seen to subside after an hour or two from the transparent fluid, forming a very sHght cloud at the bottom of the vessel. Li various states of disease, on the contrary, the solid matters contained in the urine are apt to be precipitated, either in consequence of simple diminution in the quantity of fluid in proportion to its saline constituents, or from more complicated changes in the consti- tution of the secretion. Such solid precipitates, especially if composed of saline or crystalline matters, may give rise to distressing symptoms by causing in the urinary passages the formation of gravel, and of stone or calculus; the first term being applied to the finely granular form of deposit, the two last to solid concretions of more considerable size, A stone, once formed, has always a tendency to increase in size by new accretions of foreign matter upon its surface ; and in consequence, calcuh, when they have acquired sufficient size to be detained within the bladder or kidney, generally give rise to symptoms of increasing severity, and may, sooner or later, require surgical interference for their removal. Hence the study of urinary deposits is important in a surgical point of view ; al- though the constitutional conditions which lead to them fall, for the most part, within the province of the physician, like the other derangements of the urinary secretion. These conditions are commonly called diatheses, and may be detected either by the occasional presence of gravelly deposit in the urine, or by such changes in its chemical constitution as are known to give a tendency to precipitation. The existence of any abnormal irritation in the urinary organs, therefore, should in all cases lead to an examination of the urine, and particularly to careful observation of its sediments, if present, with a view to ascertaining, correcting, and thus preventing, any tendency to the formation of calculus. The means necessary for the examination of urine in relation to surgical disease, are—a good microscope with a magnifying power of at least 200 diameters, a urinometer for testing specific gravitj^, test-tubes, test-papers, and a few simple chemicals which wiU be mentioned imme- diately. By the conjoint employment of the microscope and of chemical analysis, after the manner so fully described of late years by Dr. Goldmg Bird and others, it is now within the power of every practitioner to detect even the earliest traces of calculous tendency; and no one can be excused for overlooking derangements of the urme, which a few