91 POULTICING. was before—more especially if the iullammatory process happen to be of asthenic tendency. A part constantly sodden by a hot and moist poultice cannot be otherwise than congested. There is no doubt that many open abscesses, and many suppurating wounds, are kept from healing, and an exhausting or hectic effect produced on the system, by an undue continuance of poulticing. The first two or thi-ee days, after opening, usually suflace for subsidence of the major part of the inflammatory process ; and then the poultice is to be superseded by simple water-dressing, applied tepid ; not with an antiplilogistic view, but merely protective, soothing, and abster- gent. A piece of lint, doubled, steeped in tepid water, and gently squeezed, is placed softly over the suppurated part, and covered by a portion of oHed silk or gutta percha of larger dimensions ; the object of the latter being to secure the epithem in its place, to retain also its heat and moisture by prevention of evaporation, and to prevent soiling of the bed or body-clothes by oozing. This lint is removed as often as cleanli- ness and comfort demand; not oftener; " nimia diligentia" in such matters is but sorry surgery, as will be afterwards explained. The progress towards cure is usually as follows. After opening, inflammatory accession occurs in and around the abscess, by two exciting causes ; the injury inflicted by the knife, and the stimulus, not inconsiderable, caused by sudden contact of atmospheric air with the interior of the abscess—a part previously altogether unaccustomed to such influence. This fresh attack is usually subdued in a few days, by rest, fomentation, and poultice : but not before important change has been thereby efiected. It induces ulceration in the exposed surface of the abscess ; disintegrating the pyogenic membrane, when that exists. But the inflammatory axjcession being transient, so is the ulceration ; fibrinous formation continues, and through subsidence of the inflammatory process assumes the plastic form : a portion, upon the surface, still passes off in pus; but the remainder, adhering to the surrounding original texture, becomes organised, and converted into granulations. And these oc- cupy the place of the pyogenic membrane, or of the fibrinous matter which was being transformed thereto—for, in recent acute abscesses, time may not have been afforded for completion of the membranous change. In other words, a suppurating surface, with destructive tendency, is exchanged for what is granulating and reparative. Eut it is not by the formation of new matter that closure is prmcipally effected. The surrounding primary textures, which had been condensed and displaced during the formation and enlargement of the abscess, being now relieved, by a vital resiliency seek their normal condition. Tormerly they receded; now they practise a directly reverse movement—centri- petal. And thus by a simultaneous occurrence of this resilience of the original tissues, with the formation of a granulating surface, the cavity of the abscess partly collapses, partly contracts; and the granulating siufaces, where in contact, unite and coalesce. Cicatrization, by the formation of a marginal pellicle, advancing towards the centre, now closes the aperture by which the abscess had opened or been evacuated, and thus the last part of the process of cure is completed. During the progress of these events, water-dressing is applied, tepid.