TREATMENT OF COMPOUND FRACTURE. 547 always practised with an eye to the ulterior result—the coming period of suppuration and hectic. AVhen the bone is comminuted at the site of fracture, a question often arises as to the expediency of removing the fragments ; whether they are Ukely to die, and so to delay the cure, perhaps preventing union altofctlier; or whether they are likely to retain their vitality, and so botlx facilitate the cure and render it more satisfactory when it has occurred. If fragments are completely detached, they should certainly be removed at once; they are already foreign bodies. If they are well connected, not only by periosteum, but by the surrounding soft parts, they should be carefully replaced and retained in their proper position, with a view towards consolidation. If they are connected only by peri- osteum, they may be still left, with good hope of reunion, in the young and healthy; but in the old, and in the case of gunshot injury, they had better at once be taken away. If, at any time, their necrosis becomes certain, they are to receive the same treatment as dead portions of bone under ordinary circumstances ; spontaneous detachment is to be patiently awaited, and then the loose sequestrum is to be lifted away. Sometimes, when necrosis has been slight and gradual, and has occurred late in the cure, so much new bone may be formed as to enact the part of " sub- stitute bone," and may confine the sequestrum. In this case suppuration will continue, more or less profuse ; the fracture cannot unite ; and the whole frame is likely to give way, by hectic. StiU, amputation is not inevitable. Let the principles of treatment applicable to necrosis be carried out; let the new bone be divided, so as to expose the sequestrum and admit of its removal; then reapply retentive apparatus, and conduct the treatment in the ordinary way. When suppuration has become established, is moderate, and limited to the wound, continuance of simple water-dressing is sufficient. When, however, suppuration threatens to become diffuse, or abscess forms in the vicinity, free and early incision is to be had recourse to, with fomentation, and hot epithems, and especial quiet of the limb. In fact, the general principles of treatment suitable to abscess are to be enforced. No squeezing or pressure is at all warrantable, during the acute stage ; if the matter cannot otherwise be prevented from undue accumulation, a dependent counter-opening must be made unhesitatingly. Should gangrene invade, or plainly threaten to invade, the entire limb during the inflammatory stage, amputation, immediate and high, affords the only chance of safety. Later, when the frame is plainly unable to struggle longer, with a prospect of success, against the hectic cause, amputation is also demanded. A part must be sacrificed to save the whole. Hemorrhage is sometimes troublesome in compound fracture. It may occur at the time of injury ; an important artery having been punctured or torn. The bleeding point is to be sought for, and secured by ligature, as in ordinary arterial bleeding ; the wound being dilated, if need be— unless, indeed, the arterial lesion be so grave as to render amputation at once advisable. Or hemorrhage may take place during the progress of cure ; by ^' '^^ration, eitlier during separation of the sloughs or at a more remote