THE HEALTHY HEALING SOKE. 108 ing pellicle of the advauciug cicatrix; usually paler tlian the original skin. If the granulations are long uncovered, except by pus—whether on account of the large extent of granulating surface, or any other circumstance tending to protract cicatriijation—the almost inevitable result is a degeneration in the character of the ulcer ; which comes more or less to resemble the second class, whose characteristic is debility. This circumstance is very much affected by situation ; the nearer to the centre of circulation, the more rapid is cicatrization, and the less tendency to degenerate, A sore on ■ the leg is slower to heal, and more apt to become weak, than one in other respects similar but situate on the arm ; an ulcer of the trunk is more favourably disposed than either. Treatment.—This is simple, as is the nature of the sore. The part is placed and retained in a state of repose ; and in such a position as at once to relax the muscles impHcated, and favour venous return. Simple tepid water-dressing is applied; the j)ledget of lint not larger than is sufficient to invest the raw surface. Its object is simply protective; assisting the purulent secretion in this, until the cuticular formation is complete. When symptoms of debility ensue, it must cease to be simple, and become stimulant by medication. When the granulating space has been diminished to a mere spot, ad- ventitious protective aid is often well superseded by an effort of Nature ; the secretion coagulates, and forms a dense, blackish, impervious, callous crust, under which the healing process steadily advances. It may hap- pen, however, that even then discharge is redundant; and if such be the case, while the crust is on all sides adherent, the circumstances are un- favourable. The sore has, in truth, been converted into a superficial abscess ; and the confined matter, by pressure on the tender and recent surface, re-induces ulceration there. The part becomes hot, painful, red, and swoln; the crust is elevated and tense; and, on its separation, an ulcerating cavity is exposed. The possibility of such an occui'rence, therefore, is always to be borne in mind; and the part examined from day to day, A sHght touch of the crust will suffice to tell whether matter be accumulating beneath or not, and if it be, the crust must be gently removed, and water-dressing resumed. If there be no accumula- tion, H"ature's protection is left undisturbed; it ultimately separates of itself, and on its falling away a completed cicatrix is disclosed. The natural crust may be artificially imitated, if itself slow to form; by passing nitrate of silver lightly over the part, so as to coagulate the secretion, and then leaving this to harden and dry; or superadding, to become incorporated with the crust as it hardens, a small portion of fine lint or charpie. Or on a slight stroma of charpie a crust of coUodion may be formed. Or the water-dressing—simple or medicated, according to circum- stances—may be continued until the end of the cure. But then comes the question, not unimportant, how often is such dressing to be renewed ; the oiled-silk raised, the lint taken away, the redundant discharge gently removed, a fresh portion of lint laid on, and the oiled-silk re-adjusted; with a slight retentive bandaging if necessary 1 The answer to such (question is—As seldom as possible; as frequently as cleanliness demands, and no oftener. When discharge is seen soaking through the dressing.