325 OSTEOMA. thonglit necessary to remove the phalanx also, cither in whole or in ^'^^\ometimes, by external injury, an exostosis sustains fracture. An acute inflammatory process is then apt to be Hghted up ; the fractured portion dies ; and suppuration^ takes place around. Under such circumstances, incision is required; free enough to permit not only evacuation of the abscess, but also removal of the necrosed portion. rig. i36. Eepeated injury may fail to produce fracture, but may cause degenera- tion, even of this simple structure, into a soft and malignant growth ; de- manding ablation of a more extensive and formidable kind. This unto- ward change is more hkely to be simulated than real, however : as thus— After injury, the part becomes painful, tender, and manifestly of increased growth; while a most suspicious sense of elasticity is imparted to the examining hand; and at the same time the system is begun to sympatliize more or less. The lump looks medullary, and thoughts of amputation begin to suggest themselves. Instead of this, however, in addition to absolute rest, apply a few leeches with fomentation—and wait. Within a few days the unfavourable symptoms all disappear; and the swelKng recovers its usual bulk and innocence. What had happened was an elFusion of serous fluid between the surface of the exostosis and its investing capsule, the result of a simple inflammatory process there. Osfeo7na. Exostosis is a growth of bone from bone. Osteoma is an enlarge- ment of the bone itself; hypertrophy, accompanied with condensation of structure; and unassociated with the inflammatory process—therein differing from node. The enlargement is very gradual, and unattended by pain. External injury may be the remote apparent cause ; or no cause mjiy be assignable. In any part of the skeleton, it is comparatively rare; biit the long bones of the extremities, and the lower jaw, may be reckoned its usual sites. The size is seldom great. A section discloses density of structure; excepting perhaps a little portion of cancellous texture in the centre. This affection of bone is, originally, most simple ; and may long remain so. Yet it is liable to degenerate ; either in consequence of repeated injury, or on account of an evil disposition having crept into the general frame during the advance of years. I have seen a section of such a tumour, dense and osseous throughout, except just at the centre ; yhere an open space not larger than to enclose a small nut, instead of being occupied by cancellous texture—as it, no doubt, originally was— contained a distinctly cerebriform substance. Early treatment, therefore, is expedient. In the first place, arrest of growth and discussion are to be attempted by the ordinary means ; but fiuling discussion, if the affection only exists in one bone, and not in several, as is sometimes the case, extirpation may be had recourse to, by the knife and saw. Fig. 136. Exostosis of tlic distal phalanx of the great toe.