674 CONJUNCTIVITIS. The discaso may occur j?;er sg; or be but a part of a more general inflammatory attack; as in measles and coryza. The predisposing causes are numerous: over exertion of the organ in many ways ; derangement of the general health ; a glaring, sunny, oi dusty season. The exciting causes are equally numerous: exposure cold, heat, wind, light, or moisture; the application of chemical an nxechanical irritants, directly ; and the indirect influence of irritant cause;^ more remotely. The most obstinate forms of the disease are to b( expected, when the exciting cause is by a direct irritant which remaiii in constant operation; as when a particle of sand, dust, or glass, lodg( in the membrane, or when it is constantly rubbed or fretted by stra eyelashes, or by a foreign body lodged in a punctum, or by a Meibomia; follicle. In the treatment, our first care is to remove the cause. Then anti phlogistics are to be used; but these need be only of the mildest clas. If the cause—as a foreign substance lodged in the membrane—hav been removed at once, nothing may be required in addition to rest f both body and part, low diet, abstraction of light, and continuous appl cation of cold over the shut eyelids by means of wetted lint. Th inflammatory process may be entirely averted; or, if just begun, it ma very speedily resolve. If not, then, when the symptoms are very acut blood may be abstracted locally, by the application of two or tlu-e leeches at most, in the neighboiu'hood of the eye itself. Care should l taken that all the animals fasten near the inner angle only, immediately beneath the tendon of the orbicularis; for there less pain will 1 occasioned, more blood will be drawn, and less risk both of ecchymoi and of oedema wiU be incurred, than when they are applied along tl eyelids. Leeching is, however, rarely required, and warm fomentati of the lids with a weak belladonna lotion, mixed with an equal quantii of boiling water so as to make it of the required temperatui'e, usually sufiice to allay the painful symptoms. When copious mucc secretion agglutinates the lids, any simple ointment applied along margins wiU. prevent adhesion, and save both pain and trouble in rema ing the crusts. The process may simply and steadily resolve ; or may pass from tl acute to the chronic condition, and there tend to remain. It is to 1 borne in mind, that in all cases of this aff"ection, especially in young feeble individuals, the chronic state, differing little from that of m&j passive congestion, is very apt to be assumed at an early period—i the lapse of but a few days. Then, continuance of antiphlogistics wo' but aggravate the morbid condition. A change has to be made. Gen' stimulating collyria are employed, to restore tone to the vessels. So. tions of lead, alum, or of tannin, may be employed; but usually t occasional introduction of a few drops of a solution of nitrate of sil"V (of the strength of two grains of the salt to the ounce of distilled watel within the lids, will be found best suited to check the continual of the disease. In some cases the vinum opii wiU be foimd to ans'SPj better. During recovery, air and light should not be excluded ; a: while all glare is avoided, coverings to the eyes, preserves, etc., shou be forbidden. This stimulating plan of treatment, however, is q«i