9 OF THE INFLAMMATORY rROGESS. cheek is sometimes fixed there, with little or no alteration; but there is neither pain nor swelling j it is not conjoined with other signs; it is not inflammatory. Of change in the internal organs, under inflammatory influence, we cannot speak so confidently as of what is external and visible. Eut ob- serving the successive alterations in the retina and choroid, by means of the ophthalmoscope, we may reasonably infer that in the matter of injection or colour there is no difference between the deep-seated and superficial parts. 2. Swelling.—Unwonted accumulation of blood will alone occasion this; but it is also caused by the presence of an increased quantity of fluid in the intervascular spaces. In the earUest stage, the increase is chiefly serous. In the second stage, it contains fibrin in solution, and this is of high plasticity. In the third stage, the fibrinous product is con- tinued, but of impaired plasticity; with it is mixed blood, extravasated in mass, the result of vascular lesion ; and ultimately purulent formation is more or less advanced. So that, again referring to the diagram :— Centrally we have a soft fluctuating swelling, where there are blood and pus, and more or less of broken-down texture ; surrounding this, a dense and unyielding circle, somewhat diffuse, and usually less prominent than the centre—the result of plastic fibrinous accumulation ; and exteriorly to both, a soft pitting oedema, more or less extensive, according as the areolar tissue has been filled by the serous pro- duct. The combined result is softening of texture, and impairment of cohesion, as well as enlarge- ment of the part. Swelling, lilte redness, will not alone indi- cate the inflammatory process ; it must be con- joined with other symptoms. In simple oedema, there may be much swelling ; yet there is nothing inflammatory. It is also of gradual and recent formation; not suddenly developed as is the bulging of a hernia or dislocation, or the sanguineous infiltration immediately follow- ing a blow; nor of a tedious growth and ancient origin, as is the genuine tumour—^fatty, fibrous, or malignant. The tendency of swelling is beneficial or otherwise, according to the part affected. If this be internal, of dehcate texture, and important in function, swelling there may prove in the last degree injurious; as in the brain. Or a part, itself comparatively of little importance, may be in the immediate vicinity of one which is of the greatest; and enlargement of the former may re-act on the latter most injuriously. Swelling of the orbital areolar tissue will so affect the eyeball; and inflammatory tumour of submucous tissue may fatally occlude a mucous outlet—as the glottis. On the other hand, swelling is usually rather a fortunate occur- rence, and encouraged as such by the surgeon, if the part be situated externally—as the ordinary subcutaneous areolar tissue; or if it be neither itself of delicate texture, nor endowed with function essential to the animal economy, nor closely connected with one which is either or both—as the textures occupying the intermuscular spaces. Fig. 4. Example of inflammatory swelling. Tongue swoln, by glossitis.