1142 GONOKRHCEA IN THE FEMALE. Gonorrlicea in the Female. The female suffers comparatively little from Gonorrhoea. For a few clays only the acute symptoms persist; and the chronic stage is attended with hut little discomfort. The parts involved are the urethra, as in the male, the vulva and exterior of the vagina, and the os uteri; the last- mentioned part frequently becoming affected by superficial ulceration. Occasionally the vulvo-vaginal glands (Bartholin), upon one or both sides, are implicated, by an extension of the inflammatory affection of the mucous membrane along their ducts. In such cases, acute suppuration of the gland, and the formation of an ovoid or pyriform abscess of the labium, characterize this complication. Such an abscess may open externally; sometimes it undergoes a partial evacuation along the dilated duct; occasionally it opens in both directions, forming a vulvo-vaginal fistula. The inflammatory extension is sometimes inwards, affecting the uterine cavity, the fallopian tubes, and even the ovaries. The uterine cervical cavity is in some cases alone implicated ; and then an increased and altered secretion from the follicles of Naboth, hanging jelly-like fi'om the patulous os uteri, indicates this condition, when the parts are inspected by means of the speculum. Sometimes the inguinal glands enlarge sympathetically. The prominent symptoms are—discharge, painful micturition, pain and swelhng of the vulva, particularly of the labia minora, oedema of the prseputium clitoridis, uneasiness in sitting and walking ; at first, some constitutional disturbance ; often an aching in the back and loins. Treatment is simple. At the outset, an ectrotic result may be obtained; the vulva and vagina being pencilled over by nitrate of silver, which may also be applied to the urethra by means of a porte-caustique, or in solution by means of a syringe. In executing the last-named proceeding, care must be taken to confine the action of the nitrate to the urethra, compressing that canal at the neck of the bladder against the symphysis pubis by a finger introduced into the vagina. Failing an opportunity for the employment of this, duiing the short acute stage, recumbency is enjoined, with antiphlogistic regimen; the parts are diligently fomented; warm water injections are thrown up the vagina by means of a Higginson's syringe with a long gum-elastic tube; and oxide of zinc ointment, or a weak solution of acetate of lead and opium, is applied between the folds of the labia by means of lint. When the urethra is affected—and then only—copaiba may be ad- vantageously administered, and demulcents given freely. Afterwards injections are to be used, of greater strength than in the male—the pelvis being elevated during and for some time after injection, so as to prevent premature escape of the fluid ; and a piece of hnt, soalced in the stimulant solution, may be kept constantly apphed between the folds of the vulva. Of these, oak-bark decoction and alum will usually be found most suitable ; and a detergent injection either of warm water alone, or containing borax or soft soap, may be employed in the intervals between the use of the astringents. If this is not done, a curdy albuminous substance is apt to collect in the passages, creating in process of time great irritation. When the affection proves tedious, cotton wadding, powdered with calamine, oxide of zinc, or mag-