1341 CORNS AND BUNIONS. slow, awkward, difficult, and painful. The deformity affects both sexes, and all classes ; excited, in the poor, by overwork ; in the rich, by absurd eversion of the feet, and overtasking of the limbs, in attempts to impart poUte accomplishments to these organs. In most cases, a state of system very similar to the strumous Avill be found. By discontinuance of the exciting causes, by friction, by bandag- ing Olid the wearing of a robo- rant plaster on the part, and by general tonic treatment, relief is obtained. It is weU also to have the sole of the shoe, or boot, considerably thicker on the inner than on the outer side. And, if matters do not advance favourably, an apparatus may be worn, which wiU both support the ankle and invert the foot. Sometimes, the young patient, in the process of further development, recovers both symmetry and usefulness. In confirmed cases, both deformity and lameness are great. " The peronei and anterior muscles of the foot obtain a preponderance, and eversion of the foot becomes ultimately as considerable as in true Talipes Valgus. The preponderating muscles undergo structural shorten- ing ; the outer margin of the foot, and even sometimes the front of the foot generally, is raised from the ground; and locomotion is effected to a considerable extent on the heel. The gastrocnemii then waste, and the gait becomes very unsightly." Such cases are to be treated as ex- amples of Talipes. Tenotomy is required, with the subsequent use of rectifying apparatus. And the tendons which require division are—the tibialis anticus, all the peronei, the extensor proprius pollicis, and the extensor longus digitorum. Such cases occurring in the adult are not very hopeful subjects of treatment, however; and the division of the whole of the tendons on the dorsal, as well as on the external plantar aspect of the foot, is not likely to make the state of matters much better. Corns and Bunions. These painful affections are the result of pressure, exerted by ill-con- structed shoes and boots. They are more easily prevented than cured. 1. The shoe or boot should be large enough to contain the foot easily ; and an allowance should be made for the occasional swelling to whicli the part is liable by exercise, heat, and a dependent position. 2. The sole should be at least as broad as that of the foot. The outline of the foot—represented on a piece of paper, on which the patient leans in the erect posture—should be the measure of the sole of the boot or shoe. 3. The boot or shoe should be square, or, rather, rounded in front; not sharp, with the point nearly in a central position. The point, corre- sponding to the end of the great toe, should bo nearly in a line with the inside of the instep. And abundance of room should be given for each Fig. 367. Flat-foot.