CHAPTER LIX. AFrECTIONS OF THE PEOSTATE. Prostatitis. The prostate is liable to be affected by an acute inflammatory process, during the progress of virulent gonorrhoea. And tliis may also be excited by direct injury of the part—as by a blow on the perineum, or rash use of instruments introduced by the urethra; by excessive venereal indulgence; by imprudent exposure to cold and wet; by sympathetic influence from affections of the rectum ; by the internal use of cantha- rides, or other irritants. Heat and pain are complained of in the peri- neum, near the anus, and there is tenderness on pressure there j water is made frequently, and with pain; and pain is greatest as the accelerator muscles exert themselves to expel the last drops ; there is a sensation of weight in the rectum ; and that bowel is evacuated with both difficulty and pain ; the fijiger introduced into the bowel ascertains the prostate to be large, hot, and tender on pressure ; and an attempt to pass a catheter into the bladder is difficult and painful—the difficulty and pain occurring when the instrument's point has reached the prostatic region. Not improbably, the affection extends to the bladder, and then the ordinary symptoms of cystitis are added to those already described. Treatment is by rigid confinement to the recumbent posture, leeching of the perineum, hip-bath, fomentation, and opiate enemata or supposi- tories. Sometimes relief is obtained from large, warm, and emollient enemata, which may be supposed to act as a poultice applied directly to the part. Direct leeching has been proposed, by means of a tube, or speculum, introduced by the rectum; but it is probable that the irrita- tion attendant on the appKcation will more than counterbalance the benefit obtained by such abstraction of blood. Abscess of the Prostate. When the above symptoms sustain sudden aggravation, with rigor, increase of swelHng and tenderness in the perineum, greater difficulty of micturition, and greater swelling and tenderness on examination by the rectum, it may be presumed that matter is forming in the gland. Care- ful examination is made, in order to arrive at correct diagnosis ; and as soon aa fluctuation can be discovered, however obscurely, a direct incision is made by the perineum, to procure outward evacuation. If