1018 THE OPERATION, site of protrusion; or should the hernial contents have returned in mass without carrying the sac along with them, they will certainly be found close to the neck of it. They will easily bo recognised in most cases, forming a tense resisting swelling felt by the finger introduced through the abdominal opening into the ra\ity of the peritoneum, and can be brought down again into the sac by means of a pair of dressing forceps or a blunt hook.* Tlie operation for strangulated hernia is unhesitatingly to be had recourse to, so soon as the taxis, with such auxiliary means as seem advisable, has been fairly tried, without success. All experience proves that in regard to this operation error is more frequent on the side of delay than of precipitancy. Two circumstances demand its instant per- formance ; a conviction that by no other means, than by the edge of the knife directly applied, can the abdominal outlet be so enlarged as to relieve constriction and admit of replacement; also, a conviction that already inflammatory disease has advanced so far, that either ulceration or sloughing is inevitable in the protruded parts. In the one case, we operate to relieve the stricture and effect replacement, hoping to arrest the inflammatory process ; in the other, we operate to relieve the stric- ture, and, leaving the hernia unreduced, prevent fatal extravasation of intestinal contents within the abdomen—hoping also to limit the inflam- matory attack to the directly implicated parts. The danger of strangula- tion is twofold ; formidable disturbance of the system, and untoward inflammatory progress in the tumour. Both dangers advance, in most cases, with rapidity. And if we wish to meet them successfully, the measures of relief must be not only suitable but early ; in other words, time, all valuable, must not be wasted in ineffectual attempts at the taxis, when the case at all partakes of an acute character. When, also, the case is of the obscure nature already described—and it is difficult to say whether the hernia is to blame or not for occurrence and persistence of the untoward symptoms—let the operation for relief of stricture be per- formed. When the tumour itself is of an ambiguous character, when we are not certain whether it is a hernia or not, and yet the ordinary symp- toms of strangulated hernia are present—again let the surgeon operate. It is well he should approach error on the safer side. It has been proposed to relieve the stricture by means of subcuta- neous section. But this proceeding is obviously so beset with danger and uncertainty as to be quite inapplicable. The seat of stricture is exposed by careful and regular dissection; the incisions necessarily varying in their plan, according to the kind of tumour. In small hernise, they should correspond both to the fundus and the neck of the tumour ; iu large protrusions, an incision over the neck is alone required. Having cautiously divided the integuments and dif- ferent layers of fasciae which constitute the envelopes of the hernia, the sac is exposed in recent cases, clear and glistening, resembling very much the peritoneal coat of the bowel; so much so, in fact, that there may be some difficulty at first in feeling sure whether it is the sac or bowel. By pinching it up, so as to show bowel separate beneath; or by observing serum, fat, or a portion of omentum between, we arrive at a sure daag- * Monthly Journal, Retrospect, Feb. 1849, p. 35.