TREATMENT OF HEMORRHOIDS. 1049 ligature, drawn very tightly around tlie neck of attachment. But if the base be broad, and the form of the swelling irregular, it may be necessary to translix the base by means of a needle carrying a stout ligature; and, by tnng separately the halves of this, so to effect strangulation. The tighter the constriction, the more rapid and less painful is the cure. Deligation having been completed, the ends of the ligature are cut off close to each noose; and, by gentle manij)ulation, the strangled parts are replaced within the sphincter. If an external hemorrhoid, or loose fold of skin be found, it is removed by the sweep of a knife or scissors; and if an arterial t-\ng of any importance spring, it is at once secured by ligature. A full dose of morphia is given, to lull pain and prevent jnotion of the bowels. The bladder is watched ; and if strangury or threatened reten- tion occur, warm fomentation is to be sedulously applied to the hypogaS' trium, along with the internal administration of henbane and sweet spirits of nitre, in small and repeated doses. Should the patient, how- ever, not be relieved by these means, the catheter must be passed. By medicated poulticing, and the Avarm hip-bath, the pain in the anus may be somewhat assuaged. In a day or two, the sphacelated parts separate ; and the remaining sore is treated as its circumstances may demand. Foetor is subdued by the chlorides, and by frequent ablution. After cicatriza- tion nightly use of the tannin suppository is sometimes advisable, to pro- mote and insure complete restoration of the normal calibre and tone of the boweL In many cases anaesthesia may be used, without detriment to the facility or efi&ciency of the operation. And a subsequent minor use of chloroform is often of much service in assuaging the after pain. In the slighter cases, nitric acid has of late been employed with ad- vantage ; when the tumours are small, recent, and sessile. The parts having been made to protrude, the strong nitric acid is applied by means of a flat wooden spatula, so as to produce an eschar; and before being replaced within the sphincter, as in the case of deligation, the carbonate of soda must be freely applied so as to prevent diffusion of the escharotic. The eschar separates, removing the altered membrane ; the inflammatory change so excited, and the contraction which attends on cicatrization, sometimes suffice after a single application, but more usually repeti" tion is required. By the potassa fusa, too, hemorrhoids may be very efficiently destroyed ; the neighbouring parts being carefully protected by the use of vinegar. It should be recollected, however, that the appli- cation of the caustic is quite as painful as deligation, while the conse- quences often prove very much more tedious. Patients with greatly deranged livers are subject to general fulness in the lining membrane of the rectum, perhaps with one or more internal hemorrhoids, accompanied by a febrile state of system. In such cases, we are not to operate in any way, until the liver has been restored to a healthy or at least quiet state, and the general excitement has been cabned—otherwise the result might be serious, by aggravation of the in- ternal and constitutional disorder. In elderly, full-living patients, also, affected with disease of the heart, or shewing a tendency to affection of the head, bleeding piles, are not to be rashly interfered with; else the sudden cessation of discharge, and