679 STEUMOUS OPHTHALMIA. assertiou. Wlnle, then, I do not know of any symptom by wliicli we can distinguish the ordinary purulent from the gonorrhooal ophthalmia, it is well to remember that gonorrhoea! ophthalmia is rarely seen in females, and principally occurs in young males who are debilitated. In some cases the superficial conjunctivitis is apparently combined with a rheumatic affection of the Sclerotic and Iris. Treatment is in no way peculiar; proportioned in activity to that of the disorder, it is similar, in all respects, to that already recommended. Nitrate of silver in solution, with careful attention to cleanliness, and to the state of the cornea, constitute its essential indications. Strumous, Scrofulous, Phlyctenular Ophthalmia. This affection is essentially a disease of the cornea, of which the con- jimctival congestion is only symptomatic. In addition to the ordinary traits of the strumous cachexy, it is characterised by remarkable photo- phobia, or intolerance of light—often quite disproportioned to any ob- vious symptom ; by enlarged vessels collected into fasciculi, which stretch from the corneal margin, and terminate in one or more small whitish elevations (pustules or phlyctenulae) or in an ulcer; by exacerbations occurring in the morning, while there are remissions at night—the opposite of what obtains in other ophthalmice. This leash of vessels is of all the other signs most characteristic of the disease. Sometimes the rest of the cornea is quite clear ; but when there are several spots or ulcers, a general corneal change of structure is extremely apt to ensue ; and in such cases more or less sclerotic congestion surrounds the cornea. The conjunctival congestion is confined for the most part to the larger venous trunks. The affection seldom occurs after puberty; and prevails chiefly during childhood. At that age, the intolerance of light, with spasmodic closure of the eyelids and copious lachrymatioii, is certainly the most rominent symptom. The child keeps its hands pressed on the shut eyelids, and turns its face on the nurse's shoulder, or, if in bed, on the illow, even in comparative darkness. In cases of long continuance, the ;es of the lids become raw and excoriated; and from the spasm of the rbicularis palpebrarum, are kept in an almost inverted condition, so that •he eyelashes get under, and are there retained, augmenting the distress. e cheeks are scalded by the discharge which almost constantly w^ets lihem, and become covered with an angry eruption. The featiu-es are contorted; and a confirmed expression of pain and discontent is assumed, n attempting to open the lids, much suffering is occasioned; the lachry- ation increases, the lids become more inverted, and the eyeball is otated upwards and outwards so as to conceal the cornea. In sucb cir- 'umstances it will often be necessary, in order to obtain a good view of he eye, to separate the lids by means of the wire speculum. The treatment consists in constitutional management, suited to this particular cachexy, conjoined with measures calculated to soothe the •ocal irritation. This latter indication will best be fulfilled by bathing 'he eyes with warm water, medicated, if need be, with belladonna or ^jpmm. In some cases, smearing the lids with belladonna, or dropping solution of atropine into the eye, answers even better. Counter-irrita-