PLASTIC GROWTH. 29 with the Scamo rapidity as formation, and an oj^portunity is given for ohserving the process of organization which occurs in connection with it. The lymph in which these changes are going on, when examined under the microscope, is usually found to possess two distinct elements. There is a filamentous basis, composed of very delicate threads, crossing one another in all directions. These enclose or entangle the second element, namely numerous cells, and corpuscles, of various sizes ; some nucleated, others nuclei; and containing a greater or less amount of granules, and molecules, the results of cell-disintegration. If this new material is to he re-absorbed, it is gradually softened and dissolved; the cells either disappear, or burst and shrivel up ; and the whole mass becomes full of "granules of disintegration" (^Bennett), which, attaining the fluid form, are readily taken back into the blood. When, on the other hand, tissue is formed, the cells or corpuscles (fibro- plastic) become elongated and spindle-shaped; and at last assume the form and appearance of fibres, similar to those of white fibrous tissue, At the same time, the new matter becomes supplied with blood and blood-vessels by the process of Vascularization. Blood corpuscles are seen coursing each other through the cell-structures, in new blood- vessels ; coming from, and again returning by, the vessels of the adjacent original structure. According to some, these new vessels are, as it were, seK-formed in the plastic material Nucleated cells send out radiating Fig. 11. Fig. 12. processes, which elongate, communicate with each other, and finally abut upon the older and previous capillaries. These then unite ydih. the newly-formed vessels, which dilate, and begin to receive blood corpuscles from the older ones—^in turn transmitting the circulation to others formed in the same way in the lymph beyond them. It may happen that the hyperplastic product undergoes a higher organization than into fibro-plastic tissue, and is formed into texture Fig. 11. Proliferation of the connective tissue of the inflaming plenra.—Turner. Fig. 12. Loop of a new vessel in organizing plastic product,—Paget.