SYPHILITIC ERUPTIONS. 1169 Lcjpra and Psoriasis may occur upon any part of the surface. The patclies are larger than in pityi-iasis, still rounded (Lepra), and tend to extend marginally, the centre presenting a depressed red or coppery tint, with a white or silvery desquamating and sliglitly elevated border (Biott). When the patches remain discrete, the affection is commonly called Psoriasis Guttata; when they coalesce and form irregular curved outlines. Psoriasis Diffusa or Qyrata. After the eruption disappears, the cutaneous texture occupied by them presents white depressions, due to absorption following on the modification of its nutrition, and the removal of its pigment. When Lepra and Psoriasis occur upon the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, the appearance presented is very characteristic; a red blotch, pustule, vesicle, or bulla forms, and extends irregularly ; the scarf skin becomes detached, and a dark red, coppery, tender surface is ex- posed, which is made more obvious by being set in a border of under- mined cuticle. The exposed true skin is usually very tender, and becomes traversed by fissures, following the flexion lines of the parts. These bleed, and render a secretion, which may be either serous or purulent— possessing an offensive odour. Vesicular.—The vesicular form of eruption is not so rare a symptom of syphilis as some seem to imagine, and tends to appear before the sixth month of contagion. The vesicles occur over the back and front of the trunk, and upon the extremities. They may be small and acuminated (Eczema), or large and rounded (Herpes Syphilitica), scat- tered or arranged in groups. The herpetic vesicles contain a yellowish citrine-coloured fluid. When large and irregularly grouped upon a dark coppery surface, they resemble in character the herpes phlyctenodes. AVhen smaller, and aggregated upon a circular or ovoid surface, they resemble the herpes circmatus. In other cases, the centre of the vesicles becomes umbilicated; and when these are large, the eruption closely resembles, and has been mistaken for varicella. In other instances, the vesicles form upon the summit of a papule, which remains after the fluid has been absorbed, or has escaped by rupture of the vesicle. These eruptions, at a comparatively early period, usually terminate by forming thick, dark-coloured crusts, which are very persistent. When the scabs are removed, a superficial ulcerated surface is exposed; and when the crusts spontaneously separate, a depressed copper-coloured or dark pur- plish cicatrix remains for a long time, marking the site the eruption occupied. By degrees, however, the cicatrix becomes pearly white. The syphilitic nature of a vesicular eruption—besides the existence of general and special symptoms of the syphilitic infection—is distinguished by the absence of pain and acute symptoms, and by the dark colour of the areola and macula. Pustular : Acne, Impetigo, Ecthyma, Pustulo-crusfaceous Eruptions. If any credit can be attached to the account given by eye-witnesses of the form assumed by syphilis when it appeared in Italy in the fifteenth century, we should believe that pustular eruptions were then the usual type. Were this the case, it might be explained, either by the greater 4 p