BITES OF SERrENTS. 489 be made, aiid the flow of blood encouraged by every means in our power. Suction by the mouth is beneficial after either excision or incision; with the view of both preventing absorption, and favouring the flow of blood whereby the virus may be washed away. And, provided there is no breach of surface in the mucous membrane of the mouth, this may be had recourse to with perfect safety to the operator; experience having shewn that such virus does not act except on a wound or sore. But the application of a cupping-glass is at least equally efficient, and usually more convenient. It should be retained not only during tendency to bleed, with the view of encouraging escape of blood and all other fluids from the part—but for hours afterwards; experiment having clearly proved that, during its application, absorption takes place very slowly and imperfectly, if at all. Afterwards, it is well to apply the nitrate of silver freely to the part; for the same reasons as in the treatment of dissection wounds. Wlien dilfuse infiltration has begun—as it speedily will, if we have failed in timely and efiectual arrest of the vii-us—^free incision is requii'ed; in order to arrest progress, save texture, and mitigate the general symptoms which would otherwise ensue. Some authors recommend in the highest terms the use of a poultice made of Ipecacuau [powder. I The general treatment consists in the use of restoratives and sti- biuli, in the first instance; in order to avert death by the immediate Effects of the poison, and afibrd an opportunity for baffling its secondary Results also. Alcohol and ammonia are all-important here ; in full and epeated doses, till the shock is overcome. Afterwards we look for emedies to meet the peculiar state of system that remains ; and for this ;nd experience speaks strongly in favour of arsenic—the active principle f the famous Tanjore pill. The drug is given in large doses, and with punity—one grain of the arsenious acid, or two drachms of the iquor arsenicaHs; a tolerance of the remedy having been plainly engen- iered. Its use is continued until free purging is induced, perhaps proving of service by elimination ; and this may be farther contributed X) by emetics and diaphoretics, according as the rallied system will bear. Sometimes vomiting is spontaneous and excessive, tending to hasten exhaustion of the patient; under such circumstances, it is to be moderated jy opium, and the application of sinapisms to the epigastrium. Sina- )i8m3 along the spine, too, may be useful. The principal danger having 3een overcome, tonics, change of air, and generous diet are indicated. Many cases, as can be readily understood, prove fatal ere assistance 18 obtained. Others are seen too late for employment of the means raited to the prevention of absorption. In such, attention is directed to he constitutional treatment—in order to obtain time for and to assist m elimination—and to local management, by incision and other M to limit the inflammatory accidents in the part. wise, so Poisoned Wounds inflicted by the Bite of Diseased Animals. The most prominent feature of these is the fearful malady wliich ^Sa i'«s"lts from the bite of a rabid animal, and is termed Hydro-