CARIES. 289 many, there is much laxity hi the use of the term ; applying it indis- criminately to all breaches of continuity in hone, of whatever kind. We shall endeavour to define the state of matters to which we appre- hend that the term Caries is truly applicable, and shall use that word only to denote that condition ; remembering the just saying of Mr. Pott, how " clear and precise definitions of disease, and the application of such names to them as are expressive of their true nature, are of more consequence than they are generally imagined to be. Untrue and imperfect ones occasion false ideas, and false ideas are generally followed by erroneous practice." Caries, then, we consider to be an ulcerated condition of bone of a pecuhar kind ; practically consisting of three parts—1, The ulcerous, or molecularly disintegrating, and suppurating surface itself; consisting of fine, needle-like spicula, mixed up with the medullary substance, which presents the appearance of soft, weak granulations ; 2, A portion of bone next to this, opening up in texture, by absorption of the walls of the cancelli, and fusion of the cancelli mth each other ; 3, The bone beyond this again, firm and sound, or even unduly condensed ; undergoing the second stage of a sthenic inflammatory process, and evidencing its reparative energy by studding itself by firm osseous nodules. In dense bones, caries is preceded and accompanied by an opening up of the tissue, as formerly observed; cancellated texture seeming to be its proper nidus ; and in- flammatory transformation of laminated bone into a kind of cancellated tissue seeming to be an essential prelude to its accession, in those parts Fig. 113. where cancellous texture does not naturally exist. The margins of the cavity, consequently, have not the abrupt and firm character of the simple ulcer ; but are soft, spongy, and worm-eaten in appearance. The ulcer itself is sometimes of uniform level ; more frequently it IS unequal; deep at one point, and comparatively shallow at another. It has no adequate power of reparation. It is either open and uncovered, as if either inanimate or still undergoing disintegration —a probe passmg crumblingly into it, as into soft decayed woody fibre Or It IS mvested by tall, pale, fleshy granulations ; which seem altogether incapable of completing transition into bone. The ulcerative process IS rather chronic than acute. Sometimes the bone is extensively and rapidly destroyed; more commonly, destruction is slow and Gradual even when great. Not unfrequently only a slight extent of the bone's surtace is involved ; even in cases of old standing. The whole of a small Done, even the whole of a chain of small bones, or all the articulating "'^''^"'1'^'^ «f Caries in the metatarsal bone of the great toe. Two carious a«veVffmf' '""""'""'"'^ interstitial absorption ; as well ns by attempts at ropar- u