AFFECTIONS OF THE MEMBKANA TYMPANI. 828 bleeding has ceased and pain subsided—after the use of forceps or scissors —it is well to touch the root with nitrate of silver, Ijy means of a prob<; cither coated with the fused salt, or after being moistened dipped in the powder—so as to diminish the chance of reproduction. And if the morbid structure should not have been entirely removed, such cauteri- zation may require repetition from time to time. During the healin" process, relaxation of the membrane, with copious discharge, is apt to prove troublesome; demanding the daily and repeated use of gentl\- stimulating and astringent injections. Tungoid granulations, of a polypous character, as we have seen, not unfrequently spring from the membrane of the meatus, in cases of long- continued otorrho3a. They grow from the lower part of the tube, or from the membrana tympani itself; and when of large size may simulate poly- pus. They are got rid of by nitrate of silver, used escharotically, and by the subsequent employment of astringent injections. Exostosis of the Osseoics Meatus.—Tliis is a rare affection, but few- surgeons of extensive experience have not met with cases. The exostosis is of miniature size and pedunculated. It projects as a smooth, ivor^ or waxen, pea-like mass, towards the canal, occluding it more or h completely. The growth can easily be broken off with the point of at director, or curette, and may be extracted by the same instrument, ori, by means of polypus forceps. Encysted Tumours of the Meatus.—These present the usual charac-J ters, and by their growth dilate the canal, producing absorption some- times of its osseous walls, and even coming, by extension, to interfer with the base of the brain, or to project into the mastoid cells. When they occur, free incision and extraction of the sac should be practised. Medullary growths from the temporal bone sometimes manifest thenn selves through the meatus, before they make their way to the pharynge orbital, maxillary, or mastoid regions; they are preceded and attende by deafness, and severe pain of a neuralgic character; and are usuallylj accomj)anied by more or less discharge, and sometimes by hemorrhaged They admit of no interference fiu^ther than palliation of the pain bj opiates. Inflammatory Affections of the Membrana Tympani. Tlie dermal lamina of this membrane may be affected along with, or separately from, the rest of the skin of the external meatus. The fo: which the inflammatory process assunies may be desquamative, suppura- tive, or ulcerative, and the progress of the disease may be either acute oi chronic. When the membrane is implicated in the inflammatory affec- tions of the meatus, there is usually an increase of pain, and of inter- ference with hearing, with some tinnitus aurium on the affected side while the presence of thickened epithelial accumulation, vascular change spongy granulation, or of ulceration, can be determined by the speculum The treatment should be the same as already specified—suited to the inflammatory affections of the nicatus. In the chronic forms, it is o: importance that the speculum should bo employed in making all specie applications to the membrane. The fibrous layers of the membrana tympani are very prone to .m