ABSCESS OF THE DURA MATER. 615 the pericranium, as regards vascular nutrition of the bone. Detach the Jura mater, and the bone may hardly live ; strip off the pericranium, and eifoliation is by no means inevitable. If the injury have not only denuded the external table of its invest- ing membrane, but have also removed, at a corresponding point, the Jura mater, by disruption and consequent extravasation, necrosis of the portion of bone so circumstanced, necessarily involving accumulation of pus between the dura mater and cranium, is inevitable. Also, if the dura mater be alone detached, and subsequently suppurate, necrosis . if the entire thickness of the bone is still more than probable; though there may not be even an external wound. However occasioned, the symptoms of compression from this cause 'iffer very obviously from those produced by extravasation of blood, ihey are not of early occurrence ; days, and sometimes weeks, elapse lietween their accession and the infliction of the original injury. Whereas, compression by escape of blood is either immediate, or removed from the time of infliction only to the extent of a few hours, at the utmost. Also, m the case of abscess, the symptoms of compression are invariably pre- ceded by signs of the inflammatory process which causes the suppuration. As regards the result, the difference is still more striking. In compres- sion by blood, the extravasation may cease, the blood is absorbed, and the brain recovers. But, in compression by pus, the compressing agent is ever on the increase ; the abscess enlarges more and more ; and pus is but little amenable to absorption. The bone is exfoliating, and, if it were separate, the matter would doubtless find an outward escape ; but exfoliation is a tedious process j ere it has been accomplished, the mem- brane, growing more and more tense, and itself involved in structural '•hange, ulcerates, or sloughs ; purulent irruption takes place inwards ; ;md a more extensive, serious, and uncontrollable inflammatory accession necessarily ensues. Or, previous to the giving way of the dura mater, an equally fatal inflammatory extension inwards, by contiguity, may have occurred, diffuse arachnitis, accompanied by suppuration within the cavity of the membrane, having been set up at a comparatively early period. Or a sad complication may take place, by invasion of all the symptoms of pyaemia. Or, independently of any such aggravations, the primary evils 'jf fever and compression may prove fatal. The symptoms denoting formation of this dangerous abscess are two- fold; as affecting the system; and as affecting the part. A man receives an mjury of the head, without fracture of the cranium. He may undergo concussion, or compression by extravasation; one or other, or both; or he may not. If he does so suffer, he rallies ; and, for a time, seems ad- vancmg favourably towards complete recovery. J3ut, after some days, he hecomes restless, wakeful, and generally uneasy ; his pulse rises and gets •ard; his skin is hot and dry; and the other symptoms of inflammatory ever present themselves—moderate or intense, obscure or manifest, ac- 'Tding as the inflammatory process happens to be chronic or acute; very iwiuently it is the former. Pain is complained of in the head ; the eyes 'Change their expression ; and the cerebral functions begin to evince dis- ^^ruer. Kigor occurs, and is repeated. Suppuration is begun; and then uperveue, more or less rapidly, the symptoms of compression—coma and