849 BRONCIIOCELE. taken to secure each arterial orifice by ligature, so soon as divided, and eacli venous orifice—as far as possible—by pressure of the fingers of an assis- tant ; and having proceeded as far with the knife, in the work of detach- ment, as prudence will allow, the remainder of the connections are to be included tightly in ligature. A strong needle is passed beneath the base of the tumour, the double ligatuj-e is divided, and each portion is tied separately, so as to strangulate the mass. Tumours of the isthmus have been thus removed successfully ; and it is probable that the same prin- ciple of operation may sometimes be extended to other swellings not limited to that part of the gland. Large, solid bronchoceles, involving the whole gland, and of greatest bulk laterally, are not amenable to such radical cure. Their size, site, and attachments, preclude the use of ligature ; and attempted removal by the knife could scarcely fail to prove fatal by hemorrhage. The liga- ture of the thyroid arteries practised by Sir W. Blizard, and previously proposed by others, has sometimes been apparently successful in checking the development of the tumour. But in other cases, death has speedily resulted from the profuse suppuration and sloughing which has resulted from the operation. Of late an ingenious mode of procedure has beeji devised by M. Porta; founded on observing that the large arteries which supply the thyroid gland do not enter the interior of it, but break up into numerous small branches at the circumference, and that consequently hemorrhage need be dreaded only when the exterior part of the tumour is interfered with. Besides, the majority of simple bronchoceles he found to consist of numerous cellular or cj^stic develop- ments, Avhich push aside the proper texture of the gland, reducing that to the condition of a simple envelope, on dividing which the new pro- ducts are exposed, or may be extracted without difficulty, injuring only small vessels, and leaving behind a fleshy sac which collapses, "without farther trace of the tumour. Accordingly, the operation is performed thus:—the integuments of the neck, and subjacent parts, are divided by incision ; the tumour is cut into, avoiding the trunks of the thyroid arteries; if any of these spring, they are tied or twisted; the exposed cysts are removed by forceps, or the handle of the knife ; more solid structure, if it exist, is broken down and extruded by the same means ; and bleeding having been arrested, the wound is closed.* In hopeless cases life may be protracted, and great relief afforded, by subcutaneous section of one or both sterno-mastoid muscles, so as to diminish tension, favour outward gTowth, and relieve the trachea and jugular from compression. In some cases, also, protraction and palliation may bo obtained by tracheotomy ; when the circumstances of the case are such as to render the performance of that operation practicable. For the purely cystic bronchocele, simpler means may supersede the more formidable operation of M. Porta. Iodine may be injected as in hydrocele, and the result will usually prove equally satisfactory. By some the seton has been employed in the treatment of the cystic as ^ell as the solid form of the disease. The cyst having been punctured, and its contents evacuated, a few threads of silk may be passed through the substance of the swelling, and retained. It is probable • r>nt.. !i,nfl For. Mod. Cliir. IJcv,, Jan. "18.51, p. lOG. 3 I