484 TREATMENT OF DISSECTION WOUNDS. the same cause be still in operation, thi-ough imprudent continuance in the dissecting room. 2. Constitutional symptoms of the gravest kind attend on the severe local affection; sometimes antecedent, sometimes consequent; most frequently the former, and becoming aggravated as the local affection is developed. The first admonition of mischief, beyond sliglit itcli- ing tineasiness in the Avound, may be a sense of chilliness, or even sevei-e rigors, which is rapidly followed by febrile disturbance of a simple land. As the local changes form, the fever assumes the inflammatory type ; but that usually is of short duration ; and is merged in constitu- tional irritation of a very low kind, tending urgently towards typhoid prostration. In the minor local affection—pustule and erythema—the febrile disturbance is but slight and simple. But in the more severe form—consisting of angeioleucitis, glandular abscess, and diffuse sub- cutaneous infiltration, often complicated by erysipelas, and perhaps "with phlebitis—the general symptoms are from the first of a most alarming nature, and place life in imminent peril. In some few cases, the pre- cursory fever has been so intense, and yet of so low a type, as to carry off the patient even before full development of the local disorder ; as if by direct poisoning. Treatment. 1. For the local symptoms.—Prevention is in our power, and ought never to be neglected. A wound, scratch, or puncture, how- ever slight, having been received in the dissection of a body in which no disinfecting injection has been employed, the part should be imme- diately washed, and well sucked by the mouth; which latter operation has the doubly beneficial effect of both taking away virus, and prevent- ing the absorption of any small quantity which may for a time lurk in the part. At the same time, enlargement of the wound may be expe- dient. If it have been inflicted by the scalpel, and already shew an inclination to bleed {increased by suction), it need not be interfered with. But if it be a ragged scratch or puncture, from a pointed and edgeless substance, as a spiculum of bone, it is well to dilate it slightly by the point of a clean lancet or scalpel; so as to encourage the flow of blood, and thereby favour the washing away of deleterious matter. After, by washing, suction, and bleeding, a sufficient cleansing has been effected, the part should be lightly touched with the nitrate of silver ; with two objects in view. The nitrate is supposed capable of effecting decomposi- tion of any virus which may remain imbedded in the wounded part; and we know that it is most efficient in forming a protective crust, whereby the imbibition of other virus may be prevented. To fulfil more com- pletely the latter indication, however, a piece of plaster—or collodion— is laid over the part; and the whole is surrounded by some other en- velope. Then dissection may be continued in security. But a more important means of prevention exists, in regard to both the local and general symptoms ; namely, attention to the general health The robust student is seldom found to suffer; however many may be his dissection wounds, and however careless he may be of their local manage- ment. The stomach and bowels should be kept in a healthy state ; diet should be generous, yet temperate ; a sufficiency of out-of-door exercise should be taken daily; clothing should be warm, and a clean perspirable