1377 AMPUTATION AT THE HIP-JOINT. without requiring any direction, and without unnecessary delay. In the left thigh, the knife, at least half as long again as the diameter of the thigh at the groin, is entered about midway between the trochanter major and the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and is made to emerge on the inside of the thigh, after having passed in a some- what curved direction over the articulation; the assistant, who supports the limb, gently flexing and rotating the thigh inwards. By cutting downwards, while the assistant again extends the limb to make the tissues moderately tense, a suitable anterior flap is formed. The assistant^ then abducting the thigh, presses it backwards ; and by a determined sweep of the knife across the undivided adductor muscles, and over the head of the bone thus made prominent, the joint is cut into. With the point of the instrument, the round hgament is divided, and disarticula- tion effected. The blade of the knife is then placed behind the bone, and carried either perpendicularly backwards (Malgaigne), or downwards Fig. 390. and backwards, so as to form a posterior flap ; the assistant adducting the limb so as to prevent locking of the instrument by the trochanter major. Or the posterior flap may be formed by cutting from without inwards. However made, it is instantly covered by a sponge ; and the vessels there are rapidly secured. Afterwards, the assistant is relieved from his charge of the femoral. By some, the formation of lateral flaps is preferred. Not unfre- quently, in cases of injury, there may be no room for selection; the extent of the accidental wound precluding all attempts at regular opera- tion, and compelling the surgeon to shape his flaps according to what may be, perhaps, quite an original mode of procedure. In three cases in which Dr. Watson amputated at the hip-joint for injury, the flaps were obtained thus :—in one, from the inner side of the thigh altogether ; Fig. 390. Amputation at the Inp-joint. 4 T