1342 CORNS AND BUNIONS. toe to occupy its own place, without any crowding, or overlaying of its fellows. Corns consist of two parts—a thickening of the cuticle; and a hypertrophied and irritable condition of the corresponding papillie of tlie true skin. The inflammatory process may supervene. And then a small abscess may form ; very painful, because the matter is confined by the dense cuticle ; and frequently leading to smart erythema or erysipelas of the foot. Corns are also said to be Soft and Hard. The former situate on the outer points; the latter placed between the toes, where there is naturally considerable moisture. Another division of corns is into the Laminated and Fibrous. In the former, hypertrophied cuticle is arranged in a laminated form; and there is uniform enlargement of the papillte beneath. In the fibrous, the central papillae are much enlarged and project; each is surrounded by a sheath of epidermis ; and, conse- quently, while the circumference of the corn is laminated, the central por- tion presents a fibrous appearance. And, in ordinary language, these projecting papillae are termed the " roots of the corn." The indications of cure are simple. 1. To remove the cause; by wearing suitable boots and shoes, or by leaving the part altogether unfettered for a time. 2. By careful marginal dissection, and enucleation, without, however, wounding the vascular structures of the skin or com, to remove the hardened and hypertrophied cuticle ; and, by repetition, to prevent reproduction. 3. To remove the irritability, and to restore a nor- mal state of the cutis vera; by occasional application of the nitrate of silver. 4. If inflammatory change have occurred, poulticing, fomentation, and rest are suitable. And the subsequently open state of the parts is taken advantage of, so that a free and effectual use of the nitrate may be made. 5. Inveterate cases are palliated, by wearing roomy and soft shoes and boots j also protecting the corns, by means of thick plasters, which are excavated opposite the tender points. And into the excavations, it may be well to insert, occasionally, extract of belladonna, or some other anodyne substance. The soft corn should be treated, when free from fissuring or ulceration, by the application of the strong nitric acid. The cuticle' is thus converted into a hard horny pellicle, which in a few days may be removed by scraping. The caustic is then again applied, and the scraping repeated, until pain, produced by the application, indicates that the truly vascular structure of the papillae has been reached. Glacial acetic acid, and a solution of nitrate of silver (5i. to the Sl), may be used, but not so efficiently, to attain the same object. Bunions are formed thus :—1. Inordinate pressure has been habitu- ally made, by boot or shoe, on the ball of the great toe. The skin con- sequently becomes congested and tender; and the part is red and swohi. This is one form of the affection ; remediable by abstraction of the cause, by rest and fomentation, and by a subsequent light use of the nitrate of silver, or of a solution of iodine. 2. Or an adventitious bursa forms over ithe joint; and enlarges gradually. Occasionally, it may shew ah un- usual size, by reason of bursitis. The remedies for this form are- abstraction of the cause, discutient applications in the clironic stage, antiphlogistics in the acute. A tliin caoutchouc envelope is sometimes of service, by equalizing the pressure of the shoe. 3. Or, in consequence