TREATMENT OF STRICTURE. 1213 ness of having used an unusual and unwarrantable degree of force; an uncertainty as to the point having been in the true direction ; a Avant of the ordinary sensation of being grasped, as the pressure is continued; a sensation of something having suddenly yielded; when pressure is then continued, a feeling of roughness and rubbing on the instrument's point —and the bougie is then apt to advance, not smootldy, but per saltum ; a complaint from the patient of unusual pain—perhaps with a start, and then ftiintness ensuing; blood welling out, in greater or less quantity, by the side of the instrument. Very frequently, the patient decidedly corroborates oui- own apprehensions, by declaring his conviction that the normal canal has been departed from. Such things ought not to be ; the risk is great. And they need not be; for by avoidance of force, and by the exercise of ordinaiy caution and skill, all such accidents are rendered more than unlikely. The only circumstances in which force is at all excusable, are those of urgent re- tention. Then the bladder must be relieved, as we have seen. But, of aU the methods of affording relief, forcing the stricture is probably the ■worst. K there be time and indication, leeches, fomentation, hot-bath, sedatives, and antispasmodics are tried; and, failing these, the obstruc- tion is overcome by incision. The risks of false passage are :—1. Escape of urine, and consequent sloughing or abscess^ according to the extent and manner of the infiltra- tion. K the false passage be incomplete, opening into the urethra only on the distal side, urine does not enter so readily as when the perforation is complete—having both a distal and a proximal opening. The incom- plete form, consequently, is more likely to cause urinous abcess ; the complete, urinary infiltration. 2. Hemorrhage may be considerable. 3. Inflammatory accession may seriously affect the part, causing softening and ulceration; and healing cannot take place without contraction— worse, probably, than the original stricture. And, besides, during per- sistence of the inflammatory process, constitutional disturbance is likely to be severe, bearing hard on a system already weak. 4. Or, in the especially feeble, a formidable amount of constitutional irritation may occur, irrespective of local inflammatory change. A false passage having been formed, it is with difficulty avoided in subsequent introductions of the instrument. For some days, nothing should be passed along the canal; an opportunity being thus afforded for closure of the track; or, at least, for such diminution of it as may render entanglement of the instrument less likely. And when this is again used, it must be with a very lively caution ; the hand being alert, as it were, to notice the first and slightest deviation from the normal path. In some patients, there is an especial irritability, which tends to baulk the bougie; perineal spasm supervening on the introduction being attempted, and receiving obstructive aid, probably, from a turgescent state of the lining membrane. Such a difficulty may be partially or altogether avoided, by the exhibition of a moderate opiate, by the rectum or mouth, about half an hour before the attempt at introduction—or by the em- ployment of anaesthesia. Other patients are liable to suffer from agueish attacks, after the use of the bougie. Such are generally elderly persons,