TREATMENT OE NECllOSIS. 311 of separation has been accomplished, or ere the substitute bone has become sufficiently developed; attempted removal of the dead portion, when loose, by inadequate means ; and the leaving of it undisturbed, when loose, throwiu!:; on Nature the labour of extrusion as well as of separation. That the last is an undoubted error is very plain, when we consider that the sequestrum, when loose, is to all intents and purposes a foreign body, and as such will be regarded by the living parts ; creating much local disturbance, as well as serious inroad on the constitutional powers; both unnecessary. By some it has been urged, in defence, or at least in palliation of the indolent system of treatment, that there is a possibility of the dead por- tion disappearing; in one of two ways—either by absorption, or by solution in the purulent fluid in which it is soaked. That such hope is altogether futile, from either of these events, has been abundantly proveil A portion of bone, detached from the living, is plainly not amenable to absorption; unless, by solution, it be presented for absorp- tion in a fluid form. And direct experiments, more especially those of ]\Ir. GuUiver,* have shewn, that dead portions of bone are wholly in- soluble in the purulent or other fluids, to which in a living part they may be exposed. A portion of bone adjoining a sequestrum may be partially absorbed, or molecularly disintegrated; but dead bone itself is liable to neither absorption nor disintegration, nor to any vital process. Be- cause a large cavity is found in the interior of a bone, either altogether empty, or containing but a few minute sequestra, we are not thence to infer that the cancellous texture, originally occupying this space, has first necrosed and then been absorbed. It has parted with its vitality doubt- less ; not, however, in a continuous mass, but in molecules; not by necrosis, but by caries. And though the dead portions have been removed, they have not been taken back into the system, but thrown out through the external opening. At one time it was proposed to apply nitrous or other acids to the sequestrum, with a view to its becoming pliable through loss of its earthy matter, and so capable of being gently pulled away, at the cost of but httle pain or blood. The impossibility of confining the acid's action to the part to be destroyed, is an insuperable objection to the practice. AVhen the sequestrum has been removed by operation, the wound is stufi'ed moderately with dry lint; partly to arrest the bleeding, partly to ensure the wound's ultimate closure by a gradual filling up from the bottom. The antiphlogistic regimen is maintained for some days; as a certain amount of inflammatory accession is an inevitable result of the interference, however gently and skilfully conducted; and it being evi- dently of much importance to keep such affection within moderate limits. Otherwise, the act of removing one dead portion of bone might become the means of inducing the formation of a second sequestrum, perhaps more extensive. The limb is kept quiet, free from motion and the sup- port of weight; for, as yet, the substitute is hollow, imperfect, conse- quently weak, and prone on the application of either motion or weight to give way hy fracture or bending. Not till some considerable time has * Medico-Chinirgical Transactions, vol. xxi. London, 1838.