699 WIEATMENT OF IKITIS. 1 fibrinous product is usually very considerable. In scrofulous iriUs, pious purulent tubercular formations—terminating in Hyiwpion, and ion combined with Hijpomma—great obstinacy, a tendency to recur, ^,kI peruianent changes in the deeper seated textures of the eye, accom- . Kuiied with thinning of the sclerotic, and a disposition to enlargement ',[• the veins of the iiis and choroid—may bo said to characterize the sease. In GonorrJiceal Eheiimatism, if the eye is affected, the aqueous humour liocomes turbid, llocculent, and sometimes even occupied by a tufted white lymph, so that the pupil and iris are for the time concealed. In ^ach cases, however, our prognosis may be satisfactory, as under appro- priate treatment the lymph becomes absorbed and the eye restored to its healthy function. Treatment of Iritis.—In all cases, a broad prominent shade should be worn over both eyes, and if it admits of free ventilation so much the i letter. It must in no case consist of a patch closely covering in the ilected organ. If there is much pain, and much intolerance of light, a w leeches may be advantageously applied to the temple, over the nasal recess of the maxillary bone, close to the inner canthus ; but general lood-letting, cupping, or arteriotomy, is quite unnecessary. Iridectomy, r division of the ciliary ligament, where tension of the globe and symp- oms of choroido-iritis exist, will be found a powerful adjuvant to other reatment. If the pain occupies principally the temporal and supra- rbital regions, and is of a neuralgic character, the ajjplication of chloro- orm and oil, aconite, or atropine, diluted with soap liniment, to those arts, will give more permanent relief than leeching, especially in anemic atients ; and where there is much feverish excitement, a brisk purgative Ul prove very beneficial. Fomentation of the eye by means of bella- onna in solution, applied with a piece of sponge, often affords relief; r the continuous eye-douche syringe may be employed for this purpose, e solution being kept warm in a tin vessel surrounded by boiling water, t is a question with some surgeons whether Mydriatics, or remedies to ilate the pupil, should be used in the early stage of iritis. The object ith wliich they are employed is to attempt to dilate the pupil, and us prevent adhesions forming between its free margin and the capsule the lens. Now, no doubt, so long as the iris is inflamed it will not "late, and were the iris in all cases equally affected, then there would e no advantage in employing means to dilate it so long as it was in a ndition incapable of responding to them. Eut this is not the case ; e iris is seldom equally affected, especially in cases seen at an early riod of the attack; and therefore the solution of atropine should be ed from the commencement, and employed tlu'oughout; all the more at, when a non-acidulated and aqueous solution, it serves to soothe in, and to indicate, by the pupil beginning to dilate at that part which s been inilamed, that the inflammatory process is subsiding. When e ins is adhering, there is all the more urgent need for its employment, the hope that the adhesions, still soft and tending to become absorbed th naturally and from treatment, will yield to the dilatation of the s, and thus permit this membrane to acquire its natural mobility, use uf meicury iji iritis is at present a debated question. .Some