DISLOCATION ON THE PUBES. 1327 Fig. 361. Eeduction of dislocation on the pubes. limb projecting over the edge. Counter-extousion is effected in the ordi- nary way, by the perineal band—secured behind, and a little above the Fig. 361. level of the patient. Extension is made in a line behind the axis of the body, carrying the thigh downwards and backwards. After some time, the head of the bone is lifted over the margin of the acetabulum, by means of a towel placed over the upper part of the thigh. And rota- tion inwards is also likely to be of service. The method by manipulation may here be resorted to with the most satisfactory effects. The direction of the rotation and circumduction, and of the rocking movements, must be regulated by the relation of the head of the bone to the margin of the acetabulum, and to the site of original rupture in the capsular ligament. Anomalous dislocations of the Hip.—Besides the ordinary varieties of dislocation, the following have been observed :—1. As just mentioned, the head of the femur has been displaced, so as to rest on the anterior superior spinous process of the iHum—or rather on the space between the two spinous processes of that bone, the trochanter major lying on the dorsum ; such displacement having been determined by the direct effect of the force, and muscular action having, from some cause, failed to modify the movement in the usual way. 2. Or, in like manner, the head of the bone may rest on the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium, the trochanter major lodging in the acetabulum. 3. The head of the bone has been found resting on the tuberosity of the ischium, and also upon the spinous process of that bone. 4. The head of the bone may pass downwards and backwards into the lesser or lower sacro-sciatic notch. 5. The head of the bone may quit the acetabulum and pass directly downwards. 6. The head of the bone may be displaced into the peri- neum. Fracture of the neck or shaft of the femur sometimes complicates a dislocation of the head of the bone ; this, however, is a very unusual occurrence. Eeduction of the dislocation, in such circumstances, is not likely to be effected; as neither extension power nor manipulation can be brought to act upon the head and neck of the bone through the shaft. Dislocations of the Knee. Dislocations of the laiee-joint are caused only by great violence, and