182 TREATMENT OF SCIRRIIUS. has the effect of alleviating the symptoms, if not arresting the growth of the disease. Under its use I have repeatedly seen the angry cancer calm down, cease to extend, and even temporarily cicatrize. The appli- cation need not he continuous, or at all severe; only occasional, and regulated very much hy the feelings of the patient. Is there a specific for cancer ? is a question which we need not hesi- tate to answer with a decided negative. Many have been declared, and many have been tried as such ; yet all with one issue—failure. Some, comparatively harmless, failing in the main object, yet may have palliated suffering, and even somewhat delayed advancement. While others, of a stimulant nature, favoured the tumour's increase, bore further dow^n the system, and rendered death both more early and more wretched. The only chance of cure is by direct, early, and thorough removal of the morbid structure; and this may be effected either by caustic or by incision. The actual cautery has been employed with this view; but is now in most cases laid aside. Potential cauteries—potassa fusa, mineral acids, chloride of zinc, arsenic—have held their place longer, and with a better prospect of continuance of tenure. The best mode of applying them is with incision. The skin having been removed by Icnife or caustic if necessary, the chloride of zinc, or strong acid, as it may be, is applied freely, so as to produce a slough. Ere this has begun to separate, it is incised at various points so deeply as merely to exj)ose the living texture beneath ; and through these incisions the caustic is again applied, so as to produce a second slough, which, having been incised in its turn, becomes the medium of transmitting the third dose of caustic to a fresh layer of the diseased mass beneath; and so on, until there is reason to believe that the whole of this has been destroyed—converted into eschar. Separation of this is then awaited, and when it has taken place the remaining sore is treated according as its condition may require, with a view to healing. By some, cakes of saffron soaked in monohy- drated sulphuric acid (Velpeau), or charcoal powder, or sawdust, formed into a magma with the same agent (Eicord, Syme), have been applied with considerable success to effect the destruction of the cancerous mass. If employed, the parts around must be protected either with a thick layer of soap-plaster, or with a thick shield of gutta percha, moulded to the part, with an aperture corresponding to the size and site of the tumour to be destroyed. The advantages of tlais mode of removal are, that it is to some patients less formidable than the use of the knife; sometimes, too, it is compara- tively void of pain ; besides, there is no loss of blood, and the shock to the system is sometimes but slight—the patient walking about, and so maintaining the general health apparently unaffected ; and by the contrac- tion of the growing eschar, outlying points of the tumour—as glands— may be gradually drawn from their distant dangerous localities, to be acted on safely by the caustic in the latter stages of its use. The disad- vantages, on the other hand, are the uncertainty of the caustic's range, the prolongation of the act of removal, and the risk of causing an acute development of cancer in the connective tissue elements all around. Such cauterization, however, may very properly be had recoiu-se to when the patient refuses the knife, or when tlio bearings of the tumour or