1045 FISSURE OF THE ANUS. granulating surface may require. For obvious reasons, a close regard is paid to the system throughout. If fistula in ano co-exist with evident and advanced pulmonary phthisis, a question arises as to the propriety of operation. It may safely he answered in the negative. For, first, the operation wiU fail in its local effect; the wound, in all prohahility, will not heal. And secondly, supposing that it did heal, the result would probably be most injurious on the system ; the pulmonary disease advancing with fresh virulence, on the closing up of an outlet whence purulent and other products had long been habitually discharged. In any case, however, where the existence of the fistula is a source of great pain and irritation to the patient, the operation, as a measure of relief, may be justifiable. Fissure and Ulcer of the Anus. Fissures of the anus are extremely troublesome. They are most common in the adult; but no age is exempt; they have even been observed in children at the breast. A chap or crack, analogous to what is observed on the lip, forms within the verge of the anus, in the mucous coat of the bowel; and is the seat of acute lancinating pain, often of intense agony, more especially when the bowels are moved ; accompanied with spasm of the sphincter more or less prolonged; and simulating most of the signs of stricture of the bowel. The existence of the fissure may be obscured, in consequence of the obstacle which such spasm affords to ocular examination. In examining the patient, the anal orifice seems almost invisible, from the excessive contraction and retraction of its verge. The nates are at the same time contracted together, requiring to be forcibly separated by an assistant; and when the surgeon attempts to introduce the finger, the suffering occasioned may make the patient leap beyond his reach. In the female, pressure upon the posterior wall of the vagina, within the fourchette, will enable the surgeon to evert the orifice of the bowel, and see the surface of the crack or chap. In the male patient the eversion of the bowel is resisted, and a satisfactory inspection can rarely be effected by causing the patient to strain as if at stool. Sometimes the assistance of a specukim, therefore, may be required. But, in most cases, the sense of touch, and the feelings of the patient, will sufficiently disclose the site and extent of the fissure. Almost invariably, this affection is found connected with previous disorder of the primse vise—perhaps a long continued dyspepsia. And, in treatment, this circumstance has an important bearing. For, no local management can be expected to prove fully successful, unless the cause be taken away; that is, in most cases, the noxious matter lodg- ing in the bowels must be removed, and the functions of the mucous lining must also be amended. In such cases, a cautious dose of calo- mel ^vill probably be found the most suitable prescription at first; followed up, according to circumstances, by gentle aperients and altera- tives. The part may sometimes be benefited by being touched freely ■with nitrate of silver, or with the fluid nitrate of mercury ; but this is quite as painful as division of the base of the sac, and never so efficient. •Mere relief of pain and palliation of the affection may also be obtained by