CHAPTER XXVI. BEUISE. Bruise of tile living textures is caused hj the forcible application of an obtuse body ; as when a part is struck, or violently compressed or squeezed. The effect produced consists ia more or less injury done to the interior of the part, without solution of continuity in the integument. The degree of severity varies, from the slightest contusion, to instant and complete disorganization and death of the tissues. A spent cannon shot, for example, may, without breaking the skin, completely disorganize the part struck, reducing it at once to the condition of a jelly or pulp. Or, again, as happens frequently in contused wounds, the part may not be instantly deprived of life, but have its vitality so far weakened as readily to yield before subsequent inflammatory progress. In ordinary bruise, however, there is no sloughing, either primary or secondary. The subcutaneous tissues sustain a greater or less degree of dis- ruption ; attended by extravasation of blood, and consequent swelling. The discoloration, or eccliymnsis, as it is called, always assumes a most promi- nent place among the signs of the injury; the superficially infiltrated blood, as it undergoes absorbent change, causing a variation of hue — from the natural blood colour, somewhat intensified, to black or dark blue, thence to violet, from that to green, and afterwards to yellow. Ecchymosis, however, as a symptom of bruise, may be altogether absent; either from the coexistence of a wound by which the extravasated blood escapes externally, or by the extravasation taking place only in the deeper tissues which are shut off from commu- nication with the superficial areolar tissue by dense fascise. Or the ecchymosis may be tardy in appearing; the collection of blood being so deeply seated that the serum of coagulation, containing the colouring matter of the clot, may he even weeks before it shews upon the surface. Pain is felt at the time of the injury; usually of a dull, sickening kind ; but sometimes acute, when a sensitive part has been struck over resisting bone, as on the shm. After a time, the pain becomes aggravated, if any con- siderable degree of the inflammatory process supervene. And then, too, swelhng is increased, by the attendant inflammatory product. If the process prove slight, the swelling soon begins to subside from absorp- lon takmg place ; and gradually, extravasation with its attendant ecchy- Fig. 228. Bniiflc of the scrotum. Fig. 228.