610 COMriESSION BY BLOOD. Fig. 233. blood may amount to several ounces. It is well to remember, however, that to occasion such results, it is not essential that fracture of the super- imposed bone should take place. Mere concussion may suffice. If compound fracture exist, the blood is more likely to escape externally, than to accumulate, to any incon- venient amount, between the bone and membrane. As indications of the event :— In addition to the ordinary symp- toms of compression, we have the peculiar site and nature of the in-i jury, A smart blow has been received in the course of the me ningeal artery, or of the latei sinuses, or at the sites of contr coup; and is speedily followed bj urgent symptoms of compression. Such compression may be so grave as to cause death, by its dire effect. Or, farther escape of blood ceasing, the brain begins to accommc date itself to the amount of pressure already applied; at the same time the compressing agent is being gradually diminished in bulk by absoi tion of the extravasated blood ; and the patient slowly recovers. Or thk inflammatory process is kindled after a time ; and unhealthy suppuratioi ushered in by rigors, is apt to ensue; reinducing symptoms of cc pression, more urgent than before, after perhaps a considerable intei of consciousness. Treatment.—Were the circumstances of the case such as to leaT little doubt as to the occurrence of this form of extravasation, at an cessible and defined portion of the skull, we need have no hesitation- the symptoms of compression are urgent—in using the trephine; for tl purpose of exposing the supposed site of extravasation, and hoping II afford relief by evacuation. If the blood be still fluid, it would esca| at once; if coagulated, the solid portions might possibly be detached l| a probe—delicately used. Unfortunately, however, we cannot be certain, in almost any case, the exact site of the extravasation; and, consequently, both our oper tion and prognosis should, in such circumstances, be extremely guarde A concussing blow operates chiefly on two parts of the cranium; tj part struck, and the part immediately opposite; the one effect of termed the coup, the other the contrecoup. It not unfrequently happe<j that extravasation takes place in the latter situation; not at the struck. And should we find nothing to corroborate our diagnosis^ the first situation, we are certainly not warranted in making a sunL-.j attempt at the other; for the extravasation may be yet elsewhere, ir f site not ascertained—perhaps, indeed, inaccessible. If the symptoms of compression be not urgent, of course there is A Fig. 233. Extravasation of blood, separating tlie dura mater from the craniu j at the ordinary site ; by rupture of the middle meningeal artery, a.