1154 PHAGEDENIC AND SLOUGHING SOKES. original indurated chancre may be regarded as foreshadowing the con- secutive or constitutional symptoms which are certain to follow upon it When the indurated sore is slight, superficial, and tending to heal, a mild ti-am of constitutional symptoms without suppurative tendencies may he expected ; when, on the other hand, this form of chancre becomes phage- da^.nic, we may anticipate severe pustular and ulcerative affections of the skill and mucous membrane, affections of internal organs, and suppurative lesions of the bones.* Phagedena, occurring as a complication of either form of chancre, may be either acute or chronic. The latter is not in itself very for- midable—being usually the type assumed when the sore is of the in- durated class j commencing under cover of the prepuce, it may confine itself to the balano-preputial fold, and cease to extend after it has destroyed the frsenum. When, however, the soft chancre assumes this complication, the sore may burrow beneath the skin of the penis, producing much brawny thickening and swelling of the organ, with copious foetid dis- charge ; advancing unseen and unchecked, till much mischief may be done ; probably opening into the urethra, at one or more points ; at all events, laying the foundation of tedious sinus, with perhaps a perma- nently enfeebled and abnormal state of the organ. Sometimes, also, this form of sore attacks the posterior part of the dorsum of the penis, and burrows beneath the pubes, especially when commencing iu suppura- tion of the lymphatic vessels. (Figs. 31, 32. Pp. 123, 124.) Acute phagedasna, the sloughing sore, and the slougliing phagedaena, present the same characters here as elsewhere ; attacking the glans, pre- puce, and open bubo, indiscriminately ; and in a short time eflTecting the most destructive ravages. The accession and progress of the sore, or sores, are accompanied with marked constitutional disturbance, of the nature of irritative fever, tending manifestly to prostration. The sinister characters may declare themselves from the first; or, for a day or two, the sore may seem but a particularly foul and active sample of the soft chancre, attended with an unusual amount of constitutional dis- turbance ; and then, without any apparent ex- citing cause, rapid aggravation takes place, in both the local and constitutional symptoms; constituting what is ordinarily teimed the "black Hon." Sometimes such aggravation would seem to be accelerated, if not caused, by the administration of mercury, in the form of so-called "vegetable pills." It is important to discriminate between the sore originally of a bad kind, and that which, by such casualty as inattention to cleanhness, mere irritation by friction, or the injudicious employment of stimulating local applications, has become temporarily occupied by a slough; for the suitable treatment is very different. Active and painful local manage- ment, with constitutional remedies, is required in the one; rest and simple antiphlogistics are sufficient for the other. * Bassereau, Trait($ des Affections de la Peau Symptomatiques de la Syphilis, chap. vii. Fig. 339. Phagedajnic indurated chancre, chronic.