1010 INCARCERATED HERNIA. contents, contracts upon tlie remainder; and tlien there is found to be no room for replacement of the extruded parts, even were circumstances quite favourable for such reduction. Irreducible hernia) are predisposed to evil. Tlie patient usually suffers from flatulence, indigestion, and constipation. The peristaltic movement of the protruded bowels is imperfect, while the part is con- stantly exposed to causes of incarceration and strangulation. Such cases, therefore, require to be watched with unusual care. The bowels are to be carefully regulated; all excitants of intestinal disorder are to be avoided, as well as unnecessary abdominal exertion ; and, according to the size of the protruded contents of the sac, a hollow pad, or bag truss must be constantly worn, so as both to support the protruded parts, and prevent the occurrence of further protrusion. No direct interference is warrantable, with a view to remove the obstacles to reduction. But, should strangulation occur, the ordinary operation is to be performed, for relief of the constriction. Incarcerated Hernia.—This term denotes a temporary retention of the parts, previously reducible, in their abnormal position, without ob- struction to the faecal flow, and without the occurrence of inflammatory disease. No urgent symptoms call for reduction ; but when this is attempted, it is found to be imjDracticable under existing circumstances. There may be—1. An enlargement of the hernial contents. The gaseous matter may have become expanded ; the fluid and solid contents may have accumulated in unusual quantity ; or a portion of extruded omen- tum may have slowly expanded by serous or plastic accumulation within its areolar tissue, or by a more gradual change due to increased growth of adipose tissue; and the tumour—thus enlarged—becomes too bulky to repass the outlet. Or, 2. While possibly the tumour may be but little changed, the aperture through which it came may be temporarily contracted—preventing replacement, yet not causing constriction and strangulation ; and this state may be due to muscular spasm, or to swelling of the fibrous textures dependent on an advancing inflamma- tory process. Treatment is regulated by the cause. Gaseous contents may be diminished by the continued application of cold ; solid and fluid, as well as gaseous contents, may be favourably acted on by purgatives and ene- mata; a fatty omentum may be diminished by rest in the recumbent posture, with starvation and depletion, and the use of cathartics; and, then, the reduced tumour may be pushed back within the abdomea Spasm, should it exist, is overcome by the warm bath, opium, chloroform, or other antispasmodics; inflammatory change will subside under anti- phlogistics, followed by discutients; and through the cleared outlet a comparatively unchanged protrusion may again be returned. Until this desirable event can be achieved, the part ought to be supported by a bag truss or otherwise ; and every precaution should be taken to avert the occurrence of strangulation—to which such tumours are especially liable. Strangulated Hernia.—Strangulation is said to have taken place, when fsecal flow is mechanically arrested in the hernial tumour by tight- ness of constriction at the neck ; and when, usually from the same cause, circulation has been disturbed in the protruded parts, and the inflamma-