BADICAL CURE. 1035 or fatty tumours, may occur m this region, and if the j)resence of a soft elastic swelling -were alone regarded, niiglit occasion some difficnlty in diagnosis. A nnich more important and sometimes difficnlt matter for diagnostic acumen, is the determination of Avhether the hernia is a small ingiiinal one contained within the ingiunal canal, or a large crural rup- tiu'e which has evolved itself upwards and outwards along the line of Scarpa's fascia. The distinction must depend chiefly upon the position of the neck of the tumour with reference to Poupart's ligament and the spine of the pubes; the neck of the crural rupture lying below these points, the neck of the femoral above them. There are two peculiarities in applying the taxis to this hernia. The position of the patient is as for the inguinal; but with the limb on the affected side bent mucli upwards, and at the same time carried across its fellow, so as to relax the crural arch, on which, and not on Poupart's ligament, constriction depends. The pelvis, too, may be alternately raised and depressed. Also, as already stated, the fundus of the tumour must be drawn down and straightened on the neck before reductive pres- sure is attempted ; in other words, the tumour is first drawn downwards and inwards on the thigh, and then pushed upwards into the abdomen. After reduction, a well made truss is applied; the pad resting on the outside of and beneath the spine of the os pubis. For this purpose a small ovoid or triangular pad, fitting into the saphenous opening, should be employed; the central part flattened, the upper extremity broad and bluffly round, while the surface of the lower extremity or angle should be obliquely sloped away. The upper part rests on and compresses Poupart's ligament; the lower occupies the saph- enous opening, while the centre acts upon the crescentic margin of the fascia lata, which forms the anterior M^all of the crural canal (Wood). Radical Cure of Femoral Hernia.—Mr. Eedfern Davies of Birming- ham has employed a modification of Wiitzer's operation by cutaneous invagination in a case of femoral hernia, with the view of obtaining a radical cure. Others have recommended and employed wire setons introduced through the sac into the abdomen, and carried out through the textures above Poupart's ligament, in the hope of obtaining fibrinous product and adhesive results. Mr. Wood recommends a subcutaneous operation by means of wire, analogous to that employed by him in the cure of ingtiinal hernia. An incision about an inch in length having been made over the saphenous opening, the fascia is detached, and the finger carried up as high as the crural opening, pushing before it the coverings of the sac. The pulp of the forefinger is now pressed against the femoral vein, to keep it out of danger, while the needle is passed backwards so as to take up the pubic portion of the fascia lata internal to the line of the saphena vein, and is carried outwards through Poupart's ligament to the inner side of the invaginating finger; an assistant now draws the skin outwards, the needle is brought out upon tlie surface, and as it is withdrawn, the wire hooked through the eye is lodged in the needle-track. The unarmed needle is again passed; this time taking up the fascia over the pectineus, about three-fourths of an inch or an inch from the first puncture, and is carried onwards through the inner portion of Poupart's ligament, including a part of Gimbernat's—again