OTHER MODES OF TREA.TMENT. 424 Patiwits who are intolerant of pressure, and hostile to knife and liga- ture, have by this means some prospect of obtaining cure of aneurism. Watchfulness is necessary, however, lest an excess of effect be induced, and suppuration or even gangrene threaten. M. Bonnet states that in. twenty- three cases treated in this way, thirteen failed, and in nine a successful result was obtained. In seven of these, however, other methods of treat- ment, such as cold and compression, were likewise employed. Injections into the sac have been made trial of^ as of tannin, solution of tho per-chloride of iron, etc., with a similar object in view; as yet, however, with something considerably less than a successful issue. Manipulation of the aneurism has been proposed, in tumours in- accessible to the ligatui'e and unsuited for indirect pressure. The object is twofold : 1, by breaking up the clot to lodge a portion, perhaps, in the arterial aperture, and so to favour coagulation of the aneurismal contents ; 2, by exciting the aneurismal cyst, to induce the plastic process needful for agglutination. The risk is parallel: 1, lest fibrinous clots be forced into the arterial circulation, and produce embolism; 2, lest the cyst be ruptured, and the difiuse form of aneurism supervene—or lest the cyst, remaining entire, assume an excessive amount of the inflammatory process, running on to disastrous results. Obviously the method needs much caution in the using. Amputation—not unfrequently resorted to in this disease by the old surgeons—is still preferable to all other modes of treatment under certain circumstances. 1. Should bone have been hopelessly involved, during progress of the tumour. 2. When the diffuse form of aneurism has occurred to a great extent; so that absorption and consolidation cannot remedy the evil, and great as well as extensive suppuration must occur in the infiltrated tissues. Even supposing the aperture in the vessel to have been closed, such suppuration, and the hectic following, would be certain ultimately to demand amputation. And should the arterial aperture remain open, danger to life by hemorrhage would occur at an earlier period; with the first evacuation of purulent fluid 3. When disease of the vein co-exists ; impeding venous return. If by pressure or dehgation, in such a case, we at the same time impede arterial influx —although only imperfectly, or for a time—it will be difficult to avert the occurrence of gangrene, as a direct and almost immediate result. Amputation would then be demanded, on account of spreaduig gangrene; under circumstances which afford but slender hope of success. It were better to amputate at once, and anticipate the evil. 4. When a large aneurismal sac has suppurated, in a patient already weak. Suppuration of the entire cyst is one of the modes of spontaneous cure; and when surface is of no great extent, secretion not profuse, and the frame robust, the cavity usually fills up and consolidates. But if the surface be large, secretion great, and the system already worn, hectic is almost certain to occur ; of so formidable a nature as to demand sacrifice of the Umb, in order to save life. 5. When from any cause gangrene threatens ; of the limb ; not of the tumour only—for this latter, as formerly explained, may prove the means of a spontaneous cure. 6. It has been jiroposed as a modification of Brasdor's operation, in cases of axillary aneurism involving so much of tho subclavian as to prevent the pei-ibrmance of the Huntorian operation, tliat amputation at the shoulder-joint, beyond