1004 GASTROTOMY. uterus overlying the surface of the tumour towards the mucous surface, has been practised with the result of obtaining uterine contraction, and evolutiou of the growth tlirough the vagina—assisted, it may he, by powerful evulsion ou the part of the surgeon. Gastrostomy * In the case of insuperable obstruction of the pharynx, oesophagus, or cardia, it has been proposed to open the stomach by direct incision; at- taching the edges of the opening in the stomach to the integumental wound ; and thus constituting a permanent aperture, for the introduction of food, similar to what occurred accidentally in Alexis St. Martin. The operation is feasible in theory, and simple in performance. But its ex- tension to cases of hopeless malignant disease seems scarcely expedient.t Gastrotomy. When the bowels are obstructed from an internal cause, beyond reach from the outlet, a question arises as to the expediency of perform- ing gastrotomy, with a hope of relieving the obstruction. If that depend on fibrinous bands, or on intussusception, a simple manipulation might suffice to liberate the affected part. But the difficulty of diagnosis, and chance of failure, besides the danger of the operation, conspire to enforce great caution in resolving on such serious procedure. At the same time, when all ordinary means have failed, when several days have elapsed, and when the case is otherwise certainly hopeless, the doubtful chance of the operation may be afforded; more especially when pain, and other symptoms, point somewhat plainly to some part of the abdo- men as the probable site of obstruction. At that part the incisions are made; with the precautions aheady spoken of. It may be happily in our power simply to disentangle and relieve; or, at the worst, the dis- tended bowel may be evacuated by puncture, and an attempt made at estabhshing the condition of artificial anus. Of twenty-seven patients operated on, Mr. PhilHps mentions thirteen, whose lives have been thus preserved. J Affections of the Diajjhragm. Surgically, the diaphragm may be affected by j^enetrathig wound. This may prove formidable by hemorrhage, or by inflammatory accession, and has to be treated accordingly; or, these dangers avoided, a perma- nent aperture, an imperfect closure, or a weak cicatrix, may admit of protrusion of the abdominal contents at the injured point. Mr. Guthrie, in fact, regards this as an almost inevitable consequence; believing that cicatrization of a penetrating wound of the diaphragm never occurs. It may be so in large wounds, except, indeed, when adhesions form be- * From yaa-rr]p, stomacli; and a-rofia, mouth. t Sedilot, Gazette Medicale de Pai'is, Jan. 1847 ; and Monthly Journal, April 1848, Retrospect, p. 68. t Phillips, Med. Chir. Transact, vol. xxxi. Lond. 1848 ; also Brit, and For. Rev., April 1849, p. 433.