731 TREATMENT OF STRABISMUS. clean dissection of the sclerotic, for some little distance on either aspect of the tendon; so as to divide any hands of fibrous or areolar tissue, which might otherwise act retentivcly on the malposition of the eye. If the "lobe prove imsteady during the operation, it may be expedient to control its motions by means of a sharp, short, double hook, or artery forceps, inserted into the sclerotic conjunctiva near the corneal margin, on the outer side. The operation over, and all the instruments with- drawn, the patient is directed to look as he formerly squinted. If he find a difficulty in re-etfecting the displacement, the immediate result of the operation may be considered as fully attained. But, otherwise, it is necessary to make a more free division of the textures implicated; in all cases, however, taking care not to occasion an unseemly exophthalmos, by carrying such division to an undue extent. The retraction of the semilunar fold which follows this mode of operation, giving the eye an appearance of undue prominence, has led to what is called the subcon- junctival operation. This consists in making the incision with scissors parallel to the horizontal axis of the globe, below the level of the rectus tendon; ha^dng divided the areolar tissue beneath the conjunctiva, a director, or squint hook, is slipped upwards beneath the tendon, which IS divided by means of blunt-pointed iris scissors, or by the curved blunt- pointed bistoury which used to be employed for extending the corneal aperture in extraction, and in which the cutting edge is on the concavity. Yarious angular and curved knives, however, have been devised for this part of the operation. The difficulty with all of them consists in effecting complete division of the tendon. To secure this more thoroughly, Grafe has recommended that the incision should be made along the line of the tendon ; i.e., on the equator of the eye. The tendon, having been thus exposed, is to be drawn out through the wound, either with forceps, or by drawing the conjunctival margin of the incision downwards with the point of the squint hook ; the point of which, dipped beneath the lower margin of the tendon, is passed upwards till it reaches the tendon's upper margin, and shines through the conjunctiva; the point is now turned downwards, till it appears in the wound, and the tendon thus drawn out is then divided by means of scissors. A point or two of fine silk suture may be introduced, if required to approximate the edges of the conjunctival incision. Usually, however, all that is needed is to cover up the eye for a day or two ; and keep the patient on a re- stricted diet. Inflammatory consequences seldom occur. The wound usually unites by adhesion. In the ordinary operation, it more frequently heals by granulation, and then generally a fungous button-like growth forms ; which should be removed by fine curved scissors, and prevented &om again forming by the occasional instillation of a few drops of a weak solution of nitrate of silver. After a few days, the functions of the eye are to be resumed; and they should be so arranged as to give the organ a habitual movement in the direction opposite to that whereto it was formerly directed. Indeed, this exercise or training of the eye, subse- quently to the operation, is a very essential part of the treatment j and should be begun at an early period after the operation. Sometimes it is sufficient to operate on one eye only. At other times we are compelled to operate on the other eye as well. For, when both