WOUNDS OF THE ORBIT. G47 certainly ensue, would produce more or less serious deformity of the eyelids. Wounds of the Orbit These are usually of the punctured kind. As just stated, they are liable to prove the exciting cause of an intense inflammatory process, more especially when there is lodgment of foreign matter. And the probability of the latter circumstance must always be regarded in prac- tice; especially when occasioned by an explosion, as then gravel, or fragments of stone, of metal, or of wood, are liable to become lodged, and if left, are certain to occasion most disastrous inflammatory conse- quences. The wound having been ascertained to be clean and free, is carefully approximated; and cold is continuously applied, with much care, in order to avert the inflammatory process, if possible, and secure union by adliesion. When the wound is lacerated, the application of water-dressing will be found preferable to the use of poultices. If the inflammatory process supervene, antiplilogistic treatment must be early and active; a suppurating wound may be then inevitable j but we hope to avert deep and confined abscess, which is prone to form by extension of the inflammatory process beyond the wound's track. During the whole progress of such a case, the condition of the eye within the tumid eyehds should be ascertained ; and all collection of matter witliin the swoln eyelids should be prevented by frequent bathing with tepid water, or with a weak narcotic lotion. But such injuries acquire a stiU higher importance, in reference to the parietes of the orbit. A penetrating wound of the orbit—as by a cane, a fencing-foil, bayonet, pike, or pitchfork, a tobacco-pipe or a scissors' point—is not unlikely to produce fracture of the orbital plate; md the fragments of the broken bone, driven inwards, are certain to )enetrate or otherwise injure the brain or its membranes; endangering ife, perhaps immediately, by extravasation of blood—more probably by ;he results of inflammatory progress at a more remote period. Such ivounds, therefore, require to be treated with the greatest caution. The ixtent of injury done to the bone is ascertained as soon, as accurately, and ret as gently as possible. If loose fragments are found to exist, these it s well to remove; the external wound being dilated, if need be, for this )urpose. And when the spicula are certainly displaced inwards, in- uring the important parts in that direction, an attempt should be made 0 take them away, whether they seem detached or firm. The indication ' as paramount as in punctured fracture of any other portion of the ranium. This important part of the treatment having been satisfactorily ccomplished—by dilatation of the external wound, and the suitable use jf fingers, forceps, and probe—the patient is placed on his face, with 10 wound unapproximated, until bleeding cease ; internal extravasation f^mg thus rendered less likely to occur. Then the parts are brought >gether; and antiphlogistics are diligently employed, both locally and \ ;°^raUy, in order to avert, if possible, an untoward amount and extent ; f the inflammatory process.