236 ANEMIA. symptoms ; which may have seemed to the sulTerer by far the most im- portant and distressing part of the case. At the same time, the anaemic state, when it exists in an aggravated degree, is itself a matter of great importance. It forms a strong predis- posing cause of various diseases ; more interesting to the physician, per- haps, than to the surgeon. And the source of this increased tendency to certain morbid states of the system, is to be found in the altered state of the blood. When a single hemorrhage occurs, by accident or inten- tion, the only subsequent change to be discovered in the blood is a diminution of the number of red corpuscles. But if bleeding be long continued, or often repeated, the blood is found impoverished not only in the amount of its coloured globules, but also in that of solid matter in the liquor sanguinis. It has in fact become watery. The red glo- bules, the fibrin, and the albumen, are all in abnormally small propor- tions. It is this state of the blood which is characteristic of anaemia; and which renders the patient liable to passive dropsy, in any of the shut serous cavities, or in the general areolar tissue ; as well as to mor- bid congestions in the parenchymatous organs. And it is well kno^vn that these last may, under any accidental exciting influence, become the starting point for chronic inflammatory disease of a formidable kind. The inflammatory products, in such cu-cumstances, have a tendency to some low form of development. And hence, in the lungs and kidneys, their most frequent sites, we find the morbid process prone to tubercular and unhealthy fibrinous formation ; in the latter case producing a change of structure characteristic of some forms of Bright's disease. Besides, the state of anaemia predisposes strongly to attacks of epi- leptic convulsions, syncope, palpitation of the heart, asthma, hysteria, colic, partial paralysis, chorea, and a long list of other functional dis- eases ; or diseases of innervation. The constitutional symptoms of anaemia are a pale, waxy appearance of the countenance; pallor of the lips, and mucous membrane of the mouth ; weakness of sight, or even amaurosis; vertigo, or giddiness in the head; a weak, and easily excitable pulse ; dyspnoea after the least exertion; tendency to sickness and vomiting; irregularity of the bowels ; weakness of the limbs ; and a general feeling of excessive lassitude. In surgery, cure is obtained by direct interference ; namely, by put- ting an effectual stop to the sanguineous discharge. If a pile or polypus has been bleeding, it is tied, and taken away; if the blood has proceeded from an open ulcer, in any of the mucous passages, it is cauterized and healed up. At the same time, suitable medical treatment is employed to hasten and establish convalescence. The principal remedies, with this view, are bark and iron, as tonics ; and opium, as a sedative, in small doses ; or hyoscyamus, camphor, etc. On a well-managed generous diet, however, our chief reliance should be placed; as, after all, the best tonic and restorative.