3G0 HYPERTllOPIIY AND ATROPHY OF CARTILAGE. false articulation—inferior doubtless to the original, yet still capable of assuming at least some of its functions and utility 1 This has been practised by Mr. Barton, of America, with success ; sectioij of the neck of the femur having been performed for the relief of anchylosis of the hip-joint. Further experience would assuredly be required, however, ere such procediu-e could be said to be as expedient in practice as feasible in theory. Hy2-)ertro2Jhy and Atrophy of Cartilage. Articular cartilage, like cuticle and other non-vascular tissues, may become preternaturally developed, or diminished in bulk, either generally, or only at certain points. The parts most prone to undergo enlargement are those where pressure is habitually the least; as on the patella. The free surface is often less smooth and polished than in the normal state; dull, yellow, and almost villous in its aspect. When examined with the microscope, multiplication of the corpuscular elements of the cartilage will be found taking place, with amyloid degeneration even manifested by the application of iodine to the portion under examination. The affection may occur at any age. The symptoms are obscure; dull un- easiness, perhaps a very slight degree of swelling, impairment of motion, and a feeling of weakness in the part. The treatment will consist of rest, with the minor forms of counter-irritation ; and the iodide of potas- sium is likely to be of use, given both externally and internally. After- wards, friction, and support of the part by bandaging, or by an elastic close-fitting " cap," will be advisable. Atrophy of cartilage, again, occurs chiefly in the old, at the points habitually most compressed; and the aged who have led a laborious life, much in the erect posture, are the most prone to suffer. It is, in fact, one of the changes which, taken as a whole, has of late years received the name of Chronic Rheumatic Artlmtis. The joints of the lower extremity, especially the knee on its inner part, are the most frequently affected. Is is with difiiculty distinguished from the slighter forms ot destruction already described. At first the cartilage seems to be opened up in texture; afterwards the normal density is resumed, but with diminished bulk. The cartilage may be merely thinned, in stripes or patches, continuous or detached; or it may be wholly removed, exposing the subjacent bone. This latter tissue, however, usually remains entire; giving way neither by absorption nor by ulceration, but tending, on the contrary, towards a reparative effort. The symptoms are, like those of the opposite condition, obscure ; rigidity, creaking sensation and noise in attempted motion, rheumatic pains, tendency to occasional puffiness by superficial oedema, with inability long to maintain the erect posture, and still less to bear any considerable weight. The principal treatment will consist of kindness to old age ; local support by bandaging or " cap ;" and perhaps complete rest, with light counter-irritation, for a time, should : the symptoms prove unusually urgent, and the inflammatory process » threaten to supervene. Long conlinement and severe local remedies are inexpedient; for it is not to be expected that tlie atrophy will be so arrested; a,nd the general health would surely suflcr.