836 ABSCESS OF THE MASTOID CELLS, foot ho can liavo no positive assurance, unless, indeed, he is ahle to decide tlio matter al)sohitcly by means of rhinoscopy. Abscess of the Mastoid Cells. The inflammatory process may originate in the cancellated texture of that part of the temporal hone which constitutes the base of the mastoid process. It may be the result of external injury ; more frequently it occurs without any appreciable exciting cause, in systems of the strumous character; and is most especially liable to invade those, whose original cachexy of system has been further aggravated by the occurrence of syphilis. It is most frequently met with in the young. But very often this disease is but the extension of an originally external affection; namely, long-continued inflammatory change of the external meatus. If suppuration be attained to, in connection with periostitis or ostitis of the canal—as is extremely probable — caries may hardly fail to be esta- blished ; and will usually be complicated with the separation of portions of the osseous texture in the form of sequestra From the near connec- tion of the posterior surface of the cells with the dura mater of the cere- bellar cavity, it can easily be understood how readily, in adA'-anced cases, the latter texture may be involved. The lateral sinus, too, is in close contact; and, while perforation of this vessel may give rise to hemorrhage, the implication of its walls in the advancing inflammatory process may determine the occurrence of a tlirombosis which, breaking down, sets up pysemic symptoms and metastatic abscess. The symptoms are those already described as characteristic of the in- flammatory process affecting the cavity of the tympanum, wdth, however, more tenderness,' pufiiness, and even sometimes redness, over the base of the mastoid process. Supposing the affection to be acute, treatment in the first instance will be directed to averting suppuration, if possible ; an incision over tin' mastoid process should be made down to the bone, from base to apex. When no such antiphlogistic incision has been practised, and matter lias formed, an early and sufficient opening should at once be made so as 1^ limit the mischief. In any case there is great danger by extension. The internal ear having been involved, hopeless deafness wiU ensue : paralysis of that side of the face is not unlikely, from implication of tlic portio dura; nay, it is possible that the contents of the cranium nin\' bo attacked, as already stated, directly and imminently perilling exist- ence. Trephining of the mastoid cells over the base of the mastoid . process has therefore been recommended to give exit to the matter pent up within; and the proceeding does not seem at all imreasonable. theoretically considered. The cases requiring it must, however, be oi very rare occurrence, as the matter formed there would probably sei.'l< its way, ere any injury could be produced from pressure, into the tyni- i:)anic cavity, and then either escape by the Eustachian tube, or present itself invitingly through the bulging membrana tympani to the knife *' the surgeon. Independently of internal complications, life may ^" hazarded, when the suppuration is copious, by the hectic of a contnuicc and wasting discharge.