Fig. 159. The same isolated, and lusected. 3G4 ITS RESULTS, head approaching the trochanter, till at length it seems to he set on tlicre, without any intervening neck at all At the same time, the angle of insertion is changed ; the natural obliquity upwards becoming altered towards the rectangular position; and, ultimately, the head of the bone may even descend to form an angle of a kind precisely opposite to that which is normal. The degree of shortening may vary, from half an inch to two or even three inches; and the lameness is in proportion (Fig. 15.5). Practically, the occurrence of such change becomes of tlie greatest importance ; for, as we have said, this important affection of the hip is apt to occur in consequence of external violence. Suppose, for example, that an elderly man sustains contusion of the hip by a fall, and is taken up lame. Fracture of the neck of the femur is natu- rally suspected. But, on a very careful examination, the usual signs of this form of injury are found wholly wanting; and the surgeon is satisfied that the case is one of mere bruise. Treatment is conducted accordingly. Unaware of the probability of such change in the rela- tion of the bead and neck of the bone to the shaft, as has been now described, being likely to occur, the surgeon has not protected himself by his prognosis ; and never thought of forewarning the patient and his friends, that by the occurrence of such change the more prominent symptoms of fracture may by and by be closely simulated. After three or four weeks of confinement, on account of the results of the bruise— for, in the aged, such time is not unfrequently required for disappearance of the pain and lameness—the patient, getting up, attempts to walk ; and then, for the fii'st time, a shortening of the limb is noticed, which may amount to half an inch, or more. The surgeon is surprised, and the patient is mortified, perhaps indignant; being naturally led to suppose that his case has been mis- taken, and conse- quently misman- aged ; that what was called and trea- ted as a bruise, had been after all a frac- ture. Whereas, had not only the possi- bility but the pro- babihty of such change been known and remembered, all would have been Fig. 15S. \:^;r^P'-''''mi!ic!ji rightly understood and patiently submitted to. The feelings of the patient and his friends, and the reputation of the surgeon would have been alike saved. Nay, Fig. 158. Comparative view of this cause of shortening of the hip. Fig. 150.