CHAPTER LXV. OPERATIONS ON THE BLOOD-YESSELS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The Aorta. Compression of the Aorta may often be of service in cases of pelvic hemorrhage, amputation at the hip-joint, or amputation liigh in the thigh—assisting both Nature and the surgeon in their hemostatic means. And it can be readily effected by direct compression of the vessel against the vertebral column—a httle above, and to the left side of the umbihcus —when obesity, abdominal tumour, or intestinal distention, do not inter- fere. Although the thumbs of an assistant, or a small volume -wrapped in hnt, may suffice for this purpose, when a sudden exigency occurs, an instrument specially constructed is better suited to maintain continuous and accurate compression of the vessel during the performance of an operation. Eor this purpose, the compressor of Carte, a large Signoroni's tourniquet—or, better still, a semicircle of steel like Hoey's clamp, as recommended by Professor Lister—will be found most serviceable. The compression may be continued for a considerable period without bad consequences. On two occasions, Mr. Syme has employed continuous compression by means of the clamp during the operation of laying open an aneui-ism of the external iliac, and applying Ugatures to the arterial • apertures of communication. When applied, however, very considerable pain is experienced, unless the patient is under chloroform Deligation of the Aorta is very seldom required of the surgeon. Spontaneous obstruction of the vessel, doubtless, has occurred m a few cases, mthout serious consequences ensuing. But this event is whoUy different from the abrupt mechanical obstruction by ligatm-e; and, be- sides, the ligature cannot be applied without the infliction of a most hazardous wound. From the operation, a permanently successful residt cannot be ex- pected ; it must, we fear, be regarded as inevitably fatal. But circum- stances may occur, notwithstanding, to warrant its performance with the object of protracting existence for a few hours ; saving the patient, per- haps from death by the direct effect of hemorrhage, and affording an opportunity for the arrangement of momentous affairs ; yet without any expectation of ultimate recovery. Tlae vessel may be reached m one of two ways : directly, by incision through the abdomen, as m the cases operated on by Sir A. Cooper, and Mr. James of Exeter; or indirectly, on the outside of the peritoneum, by extension of such a wound as is suitable for deligation of the comnion iliac, as was executed by Miu-ray (Cape of Good Hope), Montciro (Rio Janeiro), and Mr. South. A^ eie