928 FRACTURE OF THE CARPAL AND METACARPAL IJONES. and then tlie fractm-e ia not only compound, but also generally accom- panied witli such injury to other parts as to call for amputation. The Metacarpal bones, however, may give way by force, either direct or indirect- most frequently the latter—as from the force of violent blows, deUvered in pugilistic encounters, reacting on the knuclcles. The metacarpal bone of the thumb may be broken from direct or indirect violence, but usually from falls upon the part when fully extended. The fracture generally occurs near the distal extremity of the bone. The digital fragment is always displaced towards the palm. The promi- nence of the knuckle is lost, and the fractured end of the bone forma instead a sharp projection on the back of the hand behind the general line of the knuckles. In the thumb the same displacement occurs, but some degree of lateral displacement may also exist. The deformity, pain, and powerlessness of the finger or thumb, with characteristic crepitus on adjustment and manipulation, are sufficiently indicative of the nature of the injury. Coaptation is effected by extension, and is secured in the case of the thumb by means of two splints—one on the posterior aspect, consisting of wood not broader than the part, and extending from the wrist to its extremity—and the other on the volar aspect, of pasteboard cut to the form of the thumb and volar mass of muscles. These spliats are padded, and retained by means of a narrow bandage applied as a roller from the distal extremity towards the palm, and then arranged as a spica bandage, to include the wrist and metacarpal portions of the splints. In the case of the metacarpal bones of the fingers, a splint on the dorsal aspect of the hand and fingers, with interosseous pads an'anged on each side of the fractured bone—and on the palmar, one large and suitable pad to occupy and maintain the hollow of the natural arch of the hand—may be emjiloyed. Without splints, a ball of worsted or cotton, or a pad of tow, large enough to occupy fuUy the grasp, is placed in the palm, with the fingers and thumb folded over it and retained in their position by means of a roller bandage or straps of adhesive plaster; and this plan will be found more comfortable, more easily applied, and equally efficient. In compound injuries of this part, amputation is to be had recourse to with reluctance. "When it is inevitable, let it be as partial and Hmited as possible, for the obvious reasons formerly stated when treating of am- putation on account of disease. Fracture of the Phalanges. Fractures of the phalanges are usually compound. But, whether compound or simple, their marks are so plain as to render nustake under any circumstances impossible. There is never any occasion for resortmg to amputation for a mere compound fractui-e of the distid phaknx; although, of course, if the soft parts are at the same time stripped off and the broken bone left projecting and uncovered, this sliould be done by dissecting back the soft parts as flaps, and cutting through the bone at a point where it will be efficiently covered. When preservation ot the injured part is deemed practicable and expedient, reduction is care- fully eff"ected ; and coaptation is maintained by slender splints of y^oo^,