40 THE ASTHENIC INFLAMMATORY PROCESS. be chiefly forniidal)le by long continuance of the disease, and by the insidious natui-e of its progress ; change of structure, all but irreparable, may have occurred, before the attention of either patient or practitioner has been directed to the part. Gradual alteration of structure is the most ordinary result; by interstitial prohferation of cell elements, wliich become more or less highly organized and persistent. Suppuration, ulcera- tion, gangrene, though comparatively rare, yet may and do occur. They can scarcely be avoided, if the chronic form of disease, after having for some time existed, suddenly becomes merged in an acute seizure. Another important division is into the Sthenic and Asthenic. The former follows the ordinary course of the inflammatory process, and shcAvs no tendency to spread diffusedly ; pus, when formed, is surrounded by the barrier plastic product ; and the constitutional disorder is of the Inflammatory type. Such is the inflammatory process which consti- tutes an ordinary acute abscess. The asthenic variety tends to spread rapidly ; the process of cell- proliferation is not of the plastic type ; suppurative cell-degeneration is soon attained, and the pus is not laudable; the parenchyma is open to infiltration, and becomes infiltrated ; destruction of texture follows ; and the attendant constitutional symptoms are those of Irritative fever, often of a low and grave kind. Such disease is well exemplified by difiuse cellulitis, and the worst forms of erysipelas. There is good reason to suspect that the blood is in a depraved state—^favourable rather to the destructive than to the constructive results of the inflammatory process •—previously to the inflammatory attack; and that this morbid condition of that most important fluid becomes further aggravated by the materials introduced into it during progress of the local disorder. Occasionally, the exciting cause is directly concerned in the unfavourable type ; as in the case of inoculation by poisonous matter, or infiltration of the textures with the urinary secretion. It hardly needs to be stated that the energetic treatment, often de- manded in the sthenic form, is in the asthenic wholly unsuitable. THE MANAGEMENT OE THE INFLAMMATOEY PROCESS. Prevention. Therapeutic means, applied immediately after removal of the exciting cause, may have the efi'ect of entirely frustrating its ordinary operation, and preventing inflammatory accession. For this purpose, the period of incubation must be diligently improved. To insure success, it is not only necessary, as can be readily understood, that the suitable means be early and sedulously employed, but also that the cause shall have been slight as well as transient; that its removal shall have been entire; and that the part have its vital power as yet unimpaired. The first effect of the stimulus we saw to be an impression both on the textures of the part as well as on the nervous system; and thus tending, in a twofold way, to a morbid result. The first object of preventive manage-