35G TREATMENT OF ADVANCING DISEASE OF CARTILAGE. time with some irritating ointment or lotion, or may Le touched occa- sionally by potass or other caustic. This last mode of refreshing tlie sore is probably the best; the iiaflammatory reaccessions, thereby induced in the surface, being of service, as well as the maintenance of sufficient purulent discharge ; it being generally our object, in these cases, not to obtain either counter-irritation or evacuation alone, but a combination of both. Also, let us at all times beware of placing the artificial sore too near the joint; otherwise we shall fail in counter-irritation, and apply a direct stimulus to the disease. And in cases which tend to retrograde after a temporaiy change for the better from the use of the cautery, the induction of cicatrization of the open issue may be attempted with advan- tage. Constitutional treatment is at the same time employed, according as circumstances may demand. When much pain and spasm exist, full opiates are indispensable ; and remedies may with great advantage be employed, especially in the early stage of the disease, adapted to influence the constitutional condition which predisposes to the diseases of the joint. Calomel and opium, colcliicum, and iodide of potassium, are serviceable in many rheumatic, gouty, and syphilitic cases; while cod-liver oil and iodide of iron may be given advantageously in the scrofulous form. In all, tonic remedies and a richly nutritious regimen will be required, after suppuration has taken place, and hectic become established. In the more favourable cases, such treatment is slowly followed by gi'adual amendment, even though considerable progress may have been made in the process of destruction; the pain abates, and ultimately ceases; the constitutional symptoms also disappear; swelling yet remains, but softer, indolent, and less painful on pressure. "WHien this state of quiescence has been reached, counter-irritation is to be desisted from. The issues are allowed to heal; the splints are retained, still to control motion; and pressure, by the method formerly mentioned, is had recourse to, to hasten absorption and consequent return to the nor- mal state. At first, however, pressure must be applied with especial caution, lest acute accession ensue; and if this threaten, the original treatment must be at once renewed. When not only the inflammatory process, but its products also, have been removed, motion is restored; but hardly till then; passive at first, gentle, and brief. A certain degrc" of uneasiness may always be expected on resumption of motion, however cautiously conducted ; but that is not to deter from perseverance in its use. Only when the sensation is that of imdoubted pain, deep and con- stant, not in any marked degree diminishing on cessation of the motion, are we warned of danger; and such warning we are never to neglect. The splints are resumed; along with leeches and counter-irritation, il need be ; and all movement is as scrupulously avoided as at first; other wise back will come the ravages of renewed disease, perhaps in an aggra- vated form. Such intercurrent inflammatory accessions are by no menw- unfrequent; and not always the result of malapraxis—sometimes super vening without any assignable cause. When we are satisfied that suppuration has fairly taken place, an< that destruction of cartilage as Avell as of other textures is advancm rapidly, we need not fear to carry out the general princi]iles of our ari by free evacuating incision. It is the only practice capable of aflordin