10 SWELLING. Kg. 5. Of this favourablG kind are very many of tho swellings with which the surgeon has to deal; as in erysipelas, phlegmon, fractures, bruise, etc. It is, there- fore, an error invariably to regard the amount of swelling as a certain index to the extent of mischief. On the contrary, it is often to be invited to the part, and, when there, pro- moted in its advancement. The production of plastic fibrin will after- wards be seen to be further advantageous, as constituting a most important limit to the central suppuration, when that occurs. From what has been said, it is already apparent how the tendency of swelling is prominently connected with the texture of the part; the less yielding, the less favour- ably disposed for the accumulation of inflam- matory product. The process advancing, so does production from the vascular contents; but should the texture refuse to accommodate this growing addition to its bulk, there arises, as it were, a struggle between the unloading vessels and the unyielding part, the issue of which is sure to be disastrous. It is the surgeon's office to watch this, and to maintain or restore harmony, if possible. Otherwise, pressure from the pent-up pro- duct re-acts disadvantageously on the blood- vessels and nerves of the part; tension is soon accompanied by throbbing, heat, and violent pain ; the morbid process has re- ceived a fresh impulse, and advances accordingly. Or the tightness of pressure thus caused may be so great as to arrest the entire circnlation of the part, already inclined to stagnation ; so rendering gangrene inevitable. Hence it is that rapid swelling in a loose texture tends usually to relief, as in the ordinary areolar tissue; while swelling in that Avhich is unyielding requires both constant and skilful care, and even then does injury. Acute inflammatory swelling in bone, or beneath a tightly spread fascia, or between bone and its fibrous periosteum, are occurrences in- variably severe, and prone to result in destruction of texture. Acute disease, with rapid accumulation in and beneath the sclerotic conjunc- tiva, is comparatively harmless ; wliile, beneath the retina, bound down by the unyielding sclerotic, the result must necessarily prove destructive. 3. Heat.—This is a symptom seldom absent, or devoid of prominence. And it is easy to imagine ho a? it should be so, when we remember that the source of such heat is to be found in the changes effected not only Fig. 5. Example of swelling in submucous tissue, producing a fatal result by oc- cluding tlie glottis. Acute oedema glottidis ; exposed from behind. Fig. 6. Example of intcrvascular inflammatory j)roduct. Plenty of this Avill account satisfactorily for swelling.—Bennett. Fig. 6.