C80 ' GRANULAR CONJUNCTIVA. tion to the temples or eyelids, by means of strong tincture of iodine solution of nitrate of silver, should be employed and repeated from time tfj time, as the skin will bear it. Actual blistering of the temples, or behind the ear, is apt to do too much, and irritate the cervical glands, Leechin". purgation, or the use of nitrate of silver, dropped into the eye, shouLi never be employed. Simple ointment smeared upon the lids and cheek - Avill relieve the excoriation. The constitutional treatment is most es.seij tial. Alterative laxatives, followed by henbane, to allay irritabilit\'. Cod-liver oil, or glycerine, as circumstances direct. But no medicin< seems to act so beneficially as quinine, which often displays a decided influence in allaying the morbid sensibility, relieving the intolerance oi light, and removing the inflammatory process. Preparations of iron, too. especially the tincture of the muriate, will be found invaluable ; but tli- dose must be such as to produce no irritation, and should be given alon- with a copious draught of water after meals. The child should have n solid, nutritious, but easily digested diet; and should not be confine: to the house, unless during cold and wet weather. In going out, tli( eyes should not be tied up, but freely exposed to air and light; th glare being relieved by a prominent, light, ventilating shade. A resi dence on the sea coast, with warm exposure, but without bathing in th sea, is also useful. In slight cases, a weak astringent lotion, contain tannin or lead, is all the treatment which is requisite. But lead sho never be emj)loyed where an ulcer of the cornea exists. Exanthematous Ojplithalmia. Accompanying or following measles, scarlatina, small-pox, eczei erysipelas, various affections of the eye may occur. But in all of then when the inflammatory symptoms assume any grave importance, this due to ulceration of the cornea. It is in scarlatina and small-pox the most disastrous results are met with ; sloughing of the entire come with disorganization of the eyeball sometimes talcing place. This is du^ not to any sj)ecialty in the inflammatory process, but to the debihty til constitution which accompanies and succeeds the attack. It was at on* time supposed that the specks upon the cornea which resulted in thesa cases were due to the occurrence of the eruption upon the cornea. Marson, in 1839, satisfactorily shewed that in the case of smaU-pox, aj all events, no pustules formed in this situation. The treatment of thesa cases should be that of acute ulceration of the cornea. Granular Conjunctiva. The granular condition, dependent on a hypertrophied state of thi papillae and mucous follicles of the palpebral conjunctiva, has beK already noticed—as constituting an important integral part of badl treated or neglected purulent conjunctivitis. But a similar change c structure may occur, quite independently of this latter disease. It ma be the result of a chronic inflammatory process resident in the palpobrf membrane ; and this will frequently be found to have been produce by the use of irritating applications, either by ignorant practitioners, f