1326 DISLOCATION ON THE PUBES. and tho apparatus arranged as before, extension is made directly up- wards, while the knee and foot are pressed down. If Ave attempt tlio reduction Ly manipulation, it is even more necessary here than in the former cases, to carry the limb only in those directions in which it is foimd to move easily'-, lest fracture of the neck of the bone should be pro- duced. The thigh is accordingly flexed in the abducted position ; and when it has assumed a rectangular position with the trunk, the knee is gradually rotated into the position of adduction, flexion being meanwhile continued; and when the further progress of the knee towards the ab- domen is stopped, the adduction is rendered complete, and the limb straightened. If the head of the bone threatens with every effort to glide away backwards into the sciatic notch, a slight rocking or rotatory movement of the knee, as the limb is being brought down, will usually coax it over the margin of the acetabulum. IV. Dislocation fonoards on the Puhes.—This accident happens when a person, while walking, puts his foot into some unexpected hollow; his body being at the moment bent backwards. I have seen the accident produced by direct violence ; the buffer of a railway carriage impinging against the posterior margin of the trochanter major. The head of the bone is forced upwards and forwards, on the horizontal ramus of the os pubis. The limb is shortened to the extent of an inch. The knee and foot are turned out- wards, and cannot be rotated inwards. The head of the bone may be distinctly felt and seen, forming a globular tumour, resting above the level of Poupart's ligament, on the outside of the femoral vessels ; and obedient to the motions of the thigh. The position of the head of the bone varies somewhat in different cases. I have seen it close to the anterior inferior ihac spine ; and in that case, where the injury was the result of direct violence, and remained unreduced, the patient, who had previously suffered from a femoral hernia, had the vessels tilted for- wards, and the crural canal supported from behind, so that he no longer required to wear a truss. This form of dislocation might, by an unwary practitioner, be more easily mistaken for a fracture of the neck of the femur, than any of the others already described. But the immobility of the limb, and the bulge produced by the head of the bone, somewhere in the line of Poupart's ligament, will usually serve to preclude the risk of any mistake. Simu- lation may also occur, in the case of mere sprain of the hip or thigh, -with globular extravasation of blood in the pubal region. The patient is placed flatly recumbent on a table, with the affected Fig. 360. Dislocation on the pubes.