713 AxMAUKOSIS. the retina presents a millfy tint with an undulating movement, the' retinal vessels coursing over the undulating surface. Again, surrounding the optic entrance, sometimes a laint smear of a blackish hue gradually shades into the healthy retinal tissue. Mingled with the white patches, black spots, punctuate, filiform, or aggregated in masses, are frequently seen. Eupture of a retinal or choroidal vessel with extravasation of blood is a very commonly observed phenomenon ; and when recent the blood will possess its bright red colour. The extravasated patch may be either internal to the retina, or between it and the choroid. The retinal texture in the latter case may be raised up, or it may give way, the blood escaping into the vitreous humour. Sometimes a large portion or even the whole of the retina is separated from the choroid in this way, and floats Hke a crumpled white sheet attached only by the optic entrance ; still, however, presenting its vessels ramifying over its irregular surface. When extravasations are of old standing, their real nature may easily be misinterpreted. A defined white patch of exposed sclerotic, or a pig- mentary stain of a brownish, yellowish streaky, or spotted aspect, alone marks the site. The entrance of the optic nerve presents very different appearances ven in a healthy state. When, however, we find it of extremely small ■ e, irregular in outHne, and of dark colour—or when it presents a cooped out or retracted aspect, the edge of the cup standing out in relief, d the vessels turning over the edge with a very abrupt curve—there he no doubt that its condition is abnormal, and that probably .trophy of its tubular structure has taken place to such an extent that ttle more than the fibrous tissue of the nerve remains. Should no such obvious signs of disease be present, we are compelled ext to presume that the cause exists somewhere behind the eyeball ; the optic nerve, in the brain, or in the parts around them. The ttack may in such cases have supervened upon some form of fever with ead symptoms, or have come on after an injury of the head. It may ccur also as the sequel of syphilis, appertaining to the tertiary period f the disease. In a scrofulous habit, tubercular meningitis may have een its forerunner. The presence of other lesions of the extracranial erves, the appearance of the patient, and the progress of the case, may hew a medullary or other tumour to be the cause of the annihilation of he vision of one or both eyes. Again, there are cases where no symp- oms exist which point to any cerebral or orbital disturbance, and Avhere he source of the malady must be sought elsewhere ; the impairment of unction being probably due to some reflex cause. Debility, dental irri- ation, gastro-hepatic derangement, uterine or prostatic irritation, afford Uustrations of causes of this form of the disease; The inordinate use of bacco sometimes produces a Hke result j and some poisons specially reduce amaurotic symptoms. As to these there is no uniformity. In most cases, whatever the ause, the symptoms, once well developed, gradually advance to com- >lete loss of sight; in others, independently of treatment, they reach a ertain point and then remain stationary. At other times, uninfluenced y treatment of any kind, they gradually wear away of their own accord. It must be sufficiently obvious after what has been said, indicating