DISLOCATION WITH FRACTURE. 938 margin of tlxo glenoid fossa; and the sharp edge of this, acting like a wedge, splits up the head of the bone, and detaches the greater tube- rosity, which is ibawn backwards by the muscles inserted into its upper margin. FradurG of the neck or shaft of the humerus may complicate a dislo- cation of the shoulder-joint. The dislocation first occurs, then the frac- ture. The line of fracture may be through the anatomical neck, splitting off the rounded head of the humerus, or through the surgical neck of the bono, or at some part of the shaft below tlie neck. The two first forms are the most common, and, in my own experience, fracture of the anato- mical neck has occurred more frequently as a compHcation of dislocation than fracture of the surgical neck of the bone. The fracture of the anatomical neck has to most authors seemed diificult of explanation ; hut if the position of this portion of the humerus upon the sharp anterior margin of the glenoid surface be the relation it occupies in the first or slighter degrees of dislocation forwards, beneath the sub-scapularis muscle, it need be no wonder that the articulating surface should be cut off, if a further force come into action, impinging the displaced head of the bone in an antero-posterior direction against the glenoid margin. In such cases the fractured head of the bone remains displaced, while the upper part of the shaft may either abide in contact with the head of the bone, or be restored to its ordinary site, in so far, at least, as its other and external relations are concerned. The symptoms present, when the shaft of the bone returns to itS' position, are those of fracture of the anatomical neck; but the displaced' head of the bone can be felt from the axilla when the arm is abducted from the side. When the upper part of the shaft remains displaced, and in contact with the head of the bone, the distortion of the dislocation is obvious; < but mobility and crepitus render the diagnosis doubtful. The displaced head of the bone, however, uninfluenced by rotation of the shaft, and the facility with which the deformity of the arm can be undone, wifl suffice to indicate the true nature of the injury. Fracture through the Surgical Neck, complicating dislocaiion of (he head of the humerus, presents all the characters of dislocation so far as the region of the deltoid and acromion is concerned; but the deformity of the arm is that of fracture, crepitus is markedly present, and the dis- placed head of the bone is readily recognised. Fracture of the shaft complicating dislocation may, except in so fer as treatment is concerned, be regarded as an independent injury. Treatment.—The great indication in these cases is to effect immediate reduction. In the last case (fracture of the shaft), by the firm appHca- tion of splints to support the broken bono and restore its continuity—the patient having been put deeply under the influence of chlorofonn—-this will be found easy of accomplishment, coaptative eflbrt being combined* with the usual extension and counter-extension. In the two former cases, when the line of fracture passes through the neck of the hone, splints are of no service, and extension and counter-extension of no avail; all must depend upon the employment of coaptative oflbrts when the muscular system has been fully relaxed by the administration of chloro-