PUSTULAR ERUPTIONS. 1171 fore somewhat cup-shaped, being formed by a series of eccentric or marginal additions, the central portion, which was first formed, being thinnest; the external rings, which sometimes overlap, and at other times lie within the ulcer, being thickest. On removing the scab, the ulcer usually shows an abrupt irregular outline, the surface, especially around the margin, presenting an ash-grey coating. Sometimes the central portion appears covered with a crop of weak flabby granulations. The cicatrix which results is usually of a dusky red or coppery tint, darker around its mar- gin than in the centre, gradually becoming of a dull white hue, but never exhibiting the regular punched out pit which is so characteristic of the earlier and less destructive form of ecthyma. This late variety of ecthyma, attended by deep seated ulceration, has very frequently been found to follow in the train of the phagedeenic indurated chancre ; and may be held as a touchstone of the cachectic state of the constitution, usually presaging serious mischief in the future, with, in all probability, tendency to the implication of internal organs in the tertiary period. Impetigo.—The pustules of syphilitic impetigo are variable in size, usually flat, the thickened and papularly elevated cutis being affected centrally by the ulceration; a crust forms of a granular aspect, and grejdsh or greenish-yellow colour, elevated above the surface, the centre and not the margin being most prominent. AVTien the crust is detached, or separates spontaneously, the ulcerated surface will be found to present different aspects, but has a special tendency to the formation of a central elevated granulating prominence. In cicatrizing, progress is usually made from the circumference towards the centre; sometimes, however, where tha ulcerous patch has formed from the coalescence of several impetiginous pustules, the cicatrization may begin from some of the central islands, and extend marginally. When patches of ecthyma or impetigo form by confluence, a large ulcerated surface becomes covered by a continuous crust, which continues to extend marginally; such eruption is usually denominated Pustulo-crustaceous, by French dermatologists. It only occurs in the more advanced or transitional secondary period, and always leaves an excavated cicatrix, marked and seamed as if the surface had been produced by a deep scald. Impetiginous eruptions most commonly occur upon the face, espe- cially the alse nasi, commissures of the lips and eyehds, the margins of the eyebrows, and among the beard or whiskers ; sometimes also upon the mens veneris and scrotum. When these impetiginous ulcers form upon the extremities, they have a greater tendency to extension than when upon the head, face, or scrotum. Acne.—In syphilitic acne the pustules are usually small, acuminated, seated upon a prominent papular base, have little tendency to extend, and are essentially chronic in their progress. The scabs which form are gene- rally small, dry, yellowish, or yellowish brown. On separating, a dry desquamating papule of a dusky or coppery tint remains, constituting when the syphilitic acne occurs upon the face or back, the most distinctive characteristic by which we recognise its difference from the simple form of acne. Besides tliis, however, we usually find other early symptoms of constitutional syphilis to aid us in arriving at a true diagnosis. When syphilitic acne occurs upon the extremities, where the simple form may