TREATMENT OF FRACTURE. 543 Prevention of o'edisplacement, or other evil consequences, is best achieved by duly carrying out the just principles of retention; keeping the fragments rightly adjusted, restraining motion, and taking care that bandaf^ing is never too tight at any part of the limb. The limb, it has been stated, is to be kept in a posture favourable to muscular relaxation, and consequently conducive to the feeling of comfort. Besides, it should be placed so as to favour venous return, while an opposite influence is exercised towards arterial influx; the forearm, for example, is sliuig, with the hand raised ; and the lower hmb is kept on the same level as the rest of the body, with the foot elevated. Undue motion and excess of the inflammatory process are the great opponents of union; and either is quite sufficient to prevent it wholly. Suppuration having occurred, the "pouch" becomes an abscess, incision is necessary, the case becomes compound, and cure may be indefinitely delayed. During the first few days, it is consequently our object to watch the indications of inflamma- tory change in the part; and to take every precautionary means in our power to prevent its excessive advancement. At the first, we have con- tributed much towards the object in view, by gently yet at once eflecting reduction, and maintaining it undisturbed ; the main cause of inflamma- tory excess has thus been taken away—and that timeously. Diet should be low, yet not strictly antiphlogistic ; unless suspicious symptoms arise. The bowels are regulated ; but purgatives are seldom expedient, the manifold motion of the whole body which they necessarily occasion tend- ing to injury. In hospitals, the fracture bed is useful, by permitting evacuation of the bowels without movement of the limb. If sensations of heat, pain, and throbbing occur in the part, with restlessness, flushing lof the face, and acceleration of pulse, blood may be taken from the arm, lin the robust and healthy; antimony or aconite is administered, and diet lis brought down to the strictly antipldogistic scale. And under such Icircumstances antiphlogistics will be especially active and early, in those leases in which fracture is in the near vicinity of important parts ; as in Ithe case of the ribs and calvarium. If there be much involuntary spasm lof the implicated muscles, jarring the fragments, opiates are useful. If Ithe signs of inflammatory excess are distinct and advancing, notwith- Istanding the ordinary precautions, the retentive apparatus must be un- jdone, and discontinued at the part; to admit of cold evaporating lotions, lor leeches and fomentation. But this casualty is of rare occurrence in jthe simple fracture, whose ordinary treatment is duly conducted. Should ihscess form, it must be treated in the ordinary way; by an early and lependent opening ; after which the further progress of the case is that 5f a compound fracture. After the first eight or ten days, the risk of inflammatory excess pay, under ordinary circumstances, be said to be past. Diet, accord- 'igly, IS gradually improved ; for it is essential to maintain considerable igour in the frame, in order to obtain a due and early completion of the 'ocess of union. And this ulterior necessity should never be lost sight m the earlier part of the case; more especially when antiphlogistics lave unfortunately become expedient. The retentive apparatus is undone and reapplied as seldom as pos- ' o»e ; and at each change, the condition of the fracture should be care-