BRONCITOCELE. 847 The swelling varies in size from a mere fulness of the neck, constituted by a slight exaggeration of the normally large thyroid gland of females, to a biilky, uniformly rounded, pendulous or lobulated tumour occupying the front of the ncclc from chin to sternum. This morbid growth may be of various kinds. 1. Mere hiqoertrophy is most common ; the enlargement being essentially chi'onic and very gradual; and ultimately making a transition into the state of simple tumour. The whole gland may be equally involved; or the isthmus alone may enlarge, while the lobes remain of a normal character; more frequently one or other lobe is the seat of the partial affection ; and sometimes both lobes are involved, while the central portion remains free. And indeed, the same remarks, as to the partial or general character of the swelling, apply to the other varieties of the affection. On manipulating the simple vascular-sarco- matous enlargement of the thyroid which constitutes the common goitre, it is felt to be of a soft elastic consistency, sometimes distinctly pulsating, and capable to some extent of being diminished on pressure. Its vascular element and the feeding thyroidal arteries are much enlarged, and are principally related to the tumour laterally and posteriorly. Any opera- tive procedure, therefore, which divides even the branches of these ves- sels, is attended with very active and profuse bleeding. This form of tumour on section presents a smooth glossy surface of a yellowish colour, and minutely-granular structure. 2. The swelling may be of a cystic nature; the stroma being analagous to the structure of simple tumom'; the cysts either numerous and small, or few and capacious, delicate, and fiUed with a glairy fluid—or large, and containing blood, sometimes pure and arterial, at other times dark, thick, and grumous. 3. The simple stroma may contain a greater or less amount of calcareous matter; giving much density to the tumour, which is seldom then of large size. 5, The tumour may be malignant. Carcinoma is rare. Cephaloma, which is not so, follows its ordinary course, and presents its usual characters. Bronchocele is, in certain localities, an endemic disorder. In the Tyrol, and in the valley of the Ehone, it is especially so ; and there almost invariably associated with the sad mental condition to which the term Cretinism has been applied. In this country, the disease is com- paratively rare, and happily such an unfortunate combination but seldom exists. In Derbyshire, Dumfriesshire, and some other counties, both in Scotland and England, however, it merits the appellation of endemic. The majority of the patients are female; and the ordinary period of invasion IS about the time of puberty. The most prominent symptom is incon- venience, with deformity, occasioned by the bulky swelling. Growth is gradual and painless—unless in the mahgnant variety. The indica- tions by touch vary according to the nature of the interior. As the tumour enlarges, headache and giddiness often occur, in consequence of venous return thence being interfered with ; and respiration also is more or less seriously impeded, by pressure on the windpipe—especially when the central portion of the gland is affected. Partial enlargement afTecting but one lobe—is apt to be mistaken for a separate tumour, or to simulate carotid aneurism, receiving a decided impulse from the adjacent vessel; and careful manipulation is necessary to arrive at a correct diagnosis. In addition to the ordinary diagnostics, it is to be