187 MEDULLARY CANCER. instances these nuclear developments invade only the submicons tissue ; iS oXl 1 muscular tissue is involved. They are, however, rarely "n^ected with any actual tumour. They produce usuaUy fatal results 1^:L^^S"^nciple of—-early a.^ free removal of the affected parts; ^d this may ^« " ^Ss a caustic as circumstances may determine. When the lymphatics are atf cted beyond the reach of either of these destroying agents, it is wise "in Lm all active interference ; imless, indeed, -th a view ^^^^^^ merely temporary and palliative rcsult^as m the case of the tongue The patient may esteem it a great boon to be rid, even for a time, ot the painful mass, with its foetid and loathsome discharge. 3 Medullary Cancer.—The Encephaloid, or Cerebriform Tumour, the Medullary Sarcoma, the Cephaloma. There are other synonyms, but these are the most frequently employed; terms originating m the likeness (to the naked eye) which the morbid product bears to the brain, in colour, texture, and consistence. The tumour may be from the first of this kind; or a growth, originally simple, may have degenerated and assumed the medullary character. And it is to be remembered, that Fig. 73. Fig. 74. when any tumour does degenerate into malignancy, it is generally the medullary structure and character which it assumes. This tumour is highly vascular; supplied and intersected by large veins; and also not without its arterial nourishment. In this respect, indeed, all the mahgnant formations differ prominently from the benign. And in regard to tumours in general, there is good reason to beheve, that the less the succulence and vascularity, not only the less rapid is the growth, but the less marked is the tendency to degenerate. Section of a medullary mass displays a consistence, colour, and general aspect of structure somewhat like that of brain ; its vascularity is shewn by the open mouths of large veins, and other arborescent vessels. Pressure gives a large amount of the characteristic " cancer-juice." The arrangement of the morbid mass is generally even and smooth. Micro- Fig. 73. Meilullai-y tumour licueath the niauima ; n, the tumour ; h, tho maunua. Fig. 74. Euc(![)haloi(l tumour ; of especially evil :iiicn ; at the lower part, bloody extravasation cxtcn.sivc.