MEDULLARY CANCER. 188 scopically, it is found to consist of cells similar to those of the hard cancer; but usually much more numerous, more loosely packed, and contained in a stroma more copious as well as less fibrous and firm. Hence the soft and yielding character of the growth. The cells may have every grade of development, from the earliest and youngest, to the retrograde condition. Sometimes the mass is found mainly to consist of cells remai'kably elongated and caudate. Sometimes it is surrounded by a cyst; if so, this is usually imperfect, at one or more points, and there the tumour has plainly increased more rapidly than elsewhere. More frequently there is no envelope; the sur- rounding textures having not been pushed aside, but involved in the structural change. It is not unusual, indeed, to find one or more dense fibrous bands intersecting the mass ; but these are not to be regarded as a part of the original tumour; they are accidental, and owe their exist- ence to the approach and union of two or more medullary masses, between which a part of the original textures, much condensed, still remains free from the medullary change. At first the mass is homogeneous. But after a time fatty degenerative softening occurs, at one or more points ; and there the consistence and colour resemble somewhat those of cream; not unfrequently, however, of a much darker hue, by admix- ture of blood. Blood also is often found in bulk, not fluid, but coagulated ; and sometimes it is infiltrated difiusely throughout the morbid structure— signs always of evil omen, indicative of much malignancy, and an almost certain return. In tumours of any considerable duration, cavities may always be expected, more or less numerous. They are of two kinds ; mere spaces, formed by softening of the medullary substance, and occupied by this softened matter variously mixed with blood; or true cysts, lined by a secreting membrane, and filled with blood or with dark fluid, or with soft medullary matter. When the latter are found, the probability is that the tumour has been originally of the simply cystic kind; that it has degenerated; and that these cysts are remains of the original and non- malignant structure, not yet annihilated. In other words, it is believed that cysts lined by a secreting membrane do not enter into the original structure of medullary cancer. So long as the tumour is invested by the integument, entire, it is said to be occult; when the skin has given way, and the morbid structure consequently comes to be exposed, it is said to be in the open state. This opening is efiected by ulceration of the skin, or other intervening texture, at the most prominent point of the swelling. In consequence of the elasticity of the morbid structure, a projection of the mass immediately takes place; and this is increased by rapid growth at this point, where resistance has been removed. A fungus is speedily established; of much the same texture as the general tumour; but softer, and darker in colour, in consequence of atmospheric influence and admixture with extravasated blood. The surrounding integuments are without reparative effort; ulceration extends in them; and a foetid, bloody, thin fluid is profusely discharged. Sometimes the fungus sloughs, or crumbles away by soften- ing and disintegration ; it is, however, quickly reproduced. Not unfre- quently, a blood-vessel, probably one of the largo veins, is opened into ;