745 ULCEKS OF THE NOSTKILS. when acute, tlie inflammatory process which causes it is usually the result of external violence. The chronic form may be independent of all ap]iarent exciting cause, occurring in a patient of broken-down system—probably a victiin of the morcurio-syphilitic taint. The bulging swelling is apt to resemble the growth of a tumour from the septum, and by its partial occlusion of the nostril simulates the symptoms of polypus. During the inflammatory period, leeches and fomentation, by means of cotton wadding soaked in warm water or oil, and inserted up the nostril, should he employed along with other suitable antiphlogistics, so as to prevent suppuration if possible. But Avhen matter has formed, an incision should he made so as to evacuate the purulent collection. Ulcers of the Nostrils. 1. Simple ulceration of the Schneiderian membrane is liable to occur cm the ordinary exciting causes of ulceration of mucous tissue; ex- osiu-e to cold, contact of acrid matter, irritation communicated from "seased teeth, etc. The treatment accordingly consists, first, in taking way the exciting cause—seclusion from atmospheric exposure, discon- inuance of snuff-taking, removal of diseased teeth or stumps in the upper aw j and then, according as the ulcer manifests the inflamed, irritable, r weak characters, the applications are bland and soothing, or nitrate of liver in substance or solution, or various gently stimulant lotions. 2. Mercurio-Syphilitic ulcers not unfrequently form in this situation; £ a secondary, or, more commonly, of a tertiary character. They are hstinate, and likely to resist all mere local treatment, because they sually accompany necrosis of the nasal bones, septum, or palate. The ore important remedial agents are those which afi"ect the system; espe- ially the iodide of potassium, and iron with cod-liver oil. 3. Ozcena.—By this term is understood an unhealthy ulceration of he h'ning membrane of the nose, with affection of the subjacent bone— aries, necrosis, or both combined. Discharge is profuse, and offensive; he ulceration tends rather to spread than to heal j portions of bone cm time to time come away; the nose sinks inwards, and is more or ss deformed; both articulation and respiration are interfered with ; and timately the general health may seriously give way. The nasal bones emselves may perish and exfoliate ; and then the deformity is not only eat but almost irremediable. The peculiarity of this ulcer is, that the Iceration is of a spreading character—simply acute, or slowly phage- asnic; and that the bones are more or less extensively involved. In e adult, some attribute this aff'ection not so much to syphilis as to the buse of mercury. In children, the affection would seem to be connected -th the stramous cachexy, or that form of it which is a manifestation ? hereditary syphilis. In some instances, the discharge comes appa- ntly from some of the sinuses of the nares; when from the antrum, e presence of a decayed tooth in the jaw, or of one lying loose in the avity of the antrum, may occasion this copious and foetid discharge—the resence of air helping to produce the decomposition of the pus which 80 offensive a feature in these cases. Tieatment is mainly constitutional; as in the simple mercurio-