iVN^EMIA. 235 tion can safely continue their functions, under the additional but com- pai-atively slight loss of blood caused necessarily by the operation. Many cases are on record where they have suddenly failed under such circum- stances. Nothing can be stated, absolutely, as to the amount of hemorrhage which is necessary to induce the fever of reaction; neither can any par- ticular period for its accession be specified. In these particulars, there is every possible vaiiation; according to age and constitution. The yoimg and the old, the weak of all ages, and generally those of a san- guineous temperament, feel most acutely all the different effects of profuse bleeding. The fever of reaction speedily disappears, if hemorrhage is quite arrested ; but if a drain of blood still continue, the fever certainly returns, though with less violence j and may be repeated again and again, till at last it subsides into a state of gradual sinking followed by death. This fever of reaction is characterized by extreme weakness, com- bined with great excitement of the circulation. The pulse is frequent, but soft and jerking; giving to the finger the sensation of a violent pro- pulsive stroke fi'om the excited heart, acting on the contents of an im- perfectly-filled vessel. There is generally a painful feeling of pulsation in all the large arteries, and especially in the aorta ; also headache or giddiness, sometimes low delirium, intolerance of light and sound, hur- ried breathing, and great feeling of anxiety in the chest. The Treatment of the constitutional effects of loss of blood is ex- tremely simple in its plan. The patient is to be placed in a large airy room, in a recumbent posture, without pillows under the head. Stimu- lants should be administered as circimistances may seem to require. And if transfusion is considered necessary, it should be performed -without delay (p. 226). If the convulsions and dehrium, which are often present, seem to be connected with congestion in the head, some simple derivatives and counter-irritants may be necessary; as dry-cupping to the nape of the neck, if depression of the pulse is not extreme j or the application of sinapisms, or even blisters, to various parts of the body. But, under all cu'cumstances, the use of stimulants is to be continued; forming, as it does, our chief indication. At the same time, the patient should be freely supplied with mild nourishment. And, as already stated, a prudent use of opium wiU be found of the greatest value (p. 226), Such medicines as camphor, musk, ether, etc., may also be useful j to aUay the nervous excitability of the heart. AncBrrda.—When loss of blood is not at once carried to such an extent as seriously to affect the system, but has been continued for a long time, or frequently repeated, it gives rise to a series of constitu- tional symptoms which are classed under the term Ancemia. These symptoms, although in themselves apparently of a serious and alarming nature, are chiefly interesting to the surgeon as indicating the effect of continued sanguineous discharge. He knows that by removing the cause of the hemoiThage, he will not only cure the original complaint, but also afford the only sure means of relief from these secondary constitutional