WOUNDS OF THE BRAIN. 632 Trepliining has also proved successful on account of neuralgia dc pendent on inward growth from the cranium.* In general, it is well to avoid applying the trephine in the direct course of the middle meningeal artery, or over the longitudinal sinus. Yet if it seem of decided importance that the instrument should bo applied at such localities, the risk of hemorrhage need not deter us. A compress of lint, directly and accurately applied, will readily restrain the venous bleeding ; and if a similar application fail to stanch the arterial flow, the osseous canal, in which the vessel is usually imbedded, may h; temporarily plugged, by the insertion of a small portion of wood or cork. Wounds of the Brain. The brain may sustain an incised wound, as by a sabre cut; a con-j tused and lacerated wound, as by depressed fracture; a punctured wound, as by the thrust of a bayonet, pike, or any other sharp-pointed weapon; or a gunshot wound—of the class " contused and lacerated,"—by the penetration of a bullet. The likelihood of disaster is grave and immi- nent j by extravasation of blood, in the first instance; by inflammatory accession and its results secondarily. Treatment requires to be propor-i tionally watchful and energetic. Incised wounds may simply penetrate, or partially detach a slice ofj the organ. Such a flap is not to be at once removed; but should replaced, along with the corresponding investing textures, in the hop that reunion may occur. Examples are not wanting of a fortunai result.t In contused and lacerated wounds, a certain amount of inflammato: access is inevitable. It is our business to moderate and control this, b; the ordinary means ; so preventing disorganization and protrusion of thi cerebral tissue at the injured part. In punctured woimds, inflammatory accession is not inevitable— unless foreign matter lodge ; yet it is very likely to occur. The anti- phlogistic precautions require to be very rigid. In gunshot wounds, danger by inflammatory accession is pre-eminent great. Not only is the wound of the contused and lacerated kind ; the: is also great probability of lodgment of the bullet, or portions of it, especial if it be a round ball and discharged from a musket; for with the presi rifled arm and the conical ball, it is rare indeed for any lodgment to effected, the ball usually perforating the skull, with an amount of inj which recent experience has shewn to be uniformly fatal. Along wi the missile, portions of the patient's cap, scalp, hair, and skull, are usual! carried along its track and lodge there. But lodgment, it is well to re collect, of extraneous materials, may be effected wdlhout the appearanc of any sufficient aperture of entrance. A fragment of a ball, cut off fror the general mass, may pass through a fissure which temporarily opens t give it entrance, and again rises to its former level. One such case cam under the writer's notice, where a small tuft of hair projecting from fissure of the skidl which could haixlly otherwise be detected, ind * Boston Med. and Surg. Journal, August 1846, p. 53. t Larrey, CJinique Chirurgicale. toni. i. p. 140.