TllEiVTMENT OF DISLOCATION. 503 at reduction, even the most strenuous, are likely to fail; and having failed, the patient is left in a much worse plight than before—the normal state not re-estahlislied, while the new adaptation is interfered with and ai-rested in its progress. Perhaps inllammatory mischief may be lighted up, and even, tliough rarely, abscess ensue; at all events, there is much painful swelling, the partially recovered power of motion is once more undone, and weeks or months may have again to elapse ere the part become so quiet and so useful as it was before the unfortunate attempt. Some joints are more favourably situated than others, in this respect. Hinge joints, as the elbow, are with difficulty reducible after three or four weeks have elapsed. On the other hand, a ball and socket joint, as the shoulder, may be practicable after many months; but this too has its intrinsic difficulties, due to the extreme mobility of the scapula, and the consequent inefficiency of all measures for coimter-extension. No definite rules can be laid down. All must be left to the desire of the patient, and the judgment and experience of the surgeon. It being always remembered, that (besides the obvious gains by chloroform) the principle of subcutaneous section, apphcable to the vicinity of joints, may enable us to overcome perhaps the most serious obstacles to reduction in cases of old standing—obstacles which are not capable of being in any other way relaxed; that the original articulating cavity, if not interfered with by the new formation, remains long available; and that, therefore, the period during which reduction may be attempted is to be regarded as considerably extended, beyond what the older authorities were willing to allow. There can seldom be much propriety, however, in resorting to such measures at the end of more than a year after the occurrence of the displacement; although a successful result from tenotomy is reported by Dieffenbach, in a case of dislocation of the shoulder, two years after the accident. In fractures, reduction is usually easy ; while retention is accom- plished not without care and trouble, and often with difficulty. Such matters are reversed in dislocation. Eeduction is difficult, retention easy and simple. It is usually sufficient to bind down the limb to the trunk or its pillow gently; so as to prevent any movement favourable to displacement And when the patient is discreet and trustworthy, even such dehgation may often be dispensed with after he has fully emerged from the chloroform. But in old dislocations of shallow joints, retention comes to be a very important indication. In the case of the shoulder- jomt, for example, it is often necessary to place a pad in the axilla, binding the arm firmly to the side ; else redisplacement will certainly and immediately occur. Where such facility of reproduction of the displacement exists, the presence of a partial fracture of the bones, implicated in the articulation, may be regarded as certain. Prevention of subsequent evil, too, is ordinarily accomplished without difficulty. For a day or two after reduction, the patient is kept quiet, and on low diet The part is fomented; and, if inflammatory accession occur, leeches are applied. Higher antiphlogistics are very seldom required. I'ain and swelling having subsided, motion is to be gradually and gently restored; assisted by moderate friction. If a muscle, as the del-