172 CYSTIC-SARCOMA. ployed to designate those cysts Irom wliose interior organized and vas- cularized product occurs of a more or less solid consistence, microscopi- cally shewing the characters of developing connective tissue—sometimes with an admixture of " glandular" substance. At first the cyst may contain fluid—serous or other; but on the development of tlie solid matter this is displaced and absorbed. The cyst may be entirely filled by its soM product, or only in part. In the former case, the gi-owth may eventually break through the wall of the cyst, and project exter- nally. Such cysts are seldom single, but occur in clusters; and arc most frequently found in or near glands. They are amenable to but one mode of treatment—Extirpation. Cystic-Sarcoma.—Cysts, of various kinds, are not seldom found dis- tributed tlirough solid stroma, of a simple or non-malignant character; and to this combmation of solid and hollow growths the old term " cystic- sarcoma" may still be conveniently applied, though scarcely, peihaps, consistent with scientific classification. The solid structm'e may resemble that of the glandular, fibro-cellular, or fibrous tumour. The cysts are not mere vacant spaces, caused by breaking down of the solid matter, as often happens in the mahgnant for- mations ; but are part of the original structure, lined with a distinct secreting membrane, and occupied by contents of various kinds. These are usually more or less fluid; sometimes a clear, glairy liquid; some- times a gelatinous, pale mass, of semi-solid consistence, elastic, and pro- jecting beyond the level of the cut cyst on a section being made ; some- times solid and fibrinous, organized imperfectly if at all; sometimes ot an atheromatous, or pappy consistence, as in many encysted tumours. Sometimes, but more rarely, a dark fluid, like printer's ink, is contained; sometimes, blood is mingled with the contents, .either in the soKd or ' the coagulated form; but such appearances are usually indicative of, an coeval with, degeneration of the tumour towards malignancy. Sometimes Fig. 57. rig- 58. the cysts are numerous and small; in other cases, they are few and of large size. Sometimes they are single in themselves; sometimes many Fig. 57. Example of cysto-sarcoma ; fi-om tlic breast. At a, the cysts many ; dis- tinctly lined by a secreting membrane, and filled witli a glairy fluid. At b, a section made on another plane ; cysts less numerous. Fig. .58. Cysto-sarcoma from tlie neiglibourliood of the mamma. One large vyst, a ; at b, the solid part of tlio tumour—a sinipk' stroma.