CHAPTER XLVIL AFFECTIONS OF THE BEND OF THE AEM. Venesection. This operation—at one time, it is to be feared, too frequently performed —is conducted thus. The patient having been placed erect, semi-erect, or recumbent, according as it is wished to witlidraw much blood or other- wise, a ligature—a riband, or bandage, or small tourniquet—is placed on the upper part of the arm, and secured with sufficient tightness to arrest the venous return, yet not so tightly as to interfere with the arterial injlux—as indicated by the pulse at the wrist. The veins at the bend of the arm, thus made tense and bulging, are scrutinized with a view to selection. A branch which is superficial, and large enough to emit freely, is to be preferred for obvious reasons. The rule usually given is to choose, if possible, the median cephalic, a careless manipulator being \ there less likely to interfere with the brachial artery, the lymphatics of the forearm, or the larger internal cutaneous nerve; so avoiding \ the risks of aneurism, diffuse inflammatory ) infiltration, and neuralgic pain. But i^ as not unfrequently happens, no vessel except the median basilic is found suitable, there the opera- tion should be performed ; care being of course taken merely to open, not to transfix the vein, s The arm is placed nearly in a middle postuie t between pronation and supination ; and precautions are taken to secure its being retained in that position unmoved. By the thumb of one hand the vein is steadied by pressure on its distal aspect, to prevent it rolling, and to control the flow of blood until the vessel to receive it has been placed in a convenient position. The lancet for the pur- pose—neither too spear-pointed, nor too rounded in its blade, should be held between the finger and thumb of the other hand, which is steadied by resting the little and ring fingers upon the inner side of the forearm. The point of the lancet is introduced obhquely across the track of the vessel till the blood appears, by a gentle movement it is carried onwards so as to secure a sufficient apertm-e being made m the vein, and the point of the instrument is then ciu:ved outwards so as Fig. 303. Ilhistration of venesection at the bend of the arm. Fig. 303.