REMOVAL OF THE LOWER JAW. 788 A tumour implicating the body of the bone only, ou one side, may be removed by a similar but less e.\t(nisivc incision ; section of the bone being made at tlie angle and symphysis. But the propriety of such a proceeding is very questionable, in cases of medullary tumour. For experience has shewn that, in such cases, return of the diseafie is very apt to take place in the truncated ramus. Should this occur, any difficulty which the absence of the base of the jaw might be supposed to occasion in enabling us to depress the bone, when dividing the attachment of the temporal muscle to the coronoid process, may easily be overcome by the use of a pair of "gripe " forceps, or even incisor tooth forceps, by wliich to grasp either the truncated ramus of the bone or its condyles. When the tumour occupies the ascending ramus of the bone between the angle and its condyle, if it is of a simple kind the removal of that portion of the jaw impUcated in the tumour is alone requisite ; and this operation can easily be performed without opening into the mouth. Should the tumour be of some size, it will be expedient to be provided with the gripe forceps, already mentioned, as enabling the operator to control the movements of the tumour, and expose its attachments iu effecting their division.* In cases of cystic tumoiu* occupying this por- tion of the bone, great care and attention will be requisite to avoid opening the cysts while the dissection, division of muscular attachments, and disarticulation, are being effected. The symphysis may be removed on account of tumour. A horizontal wound, made along the lower border of the bone, will sufficiently expose the tumour to enable the bone to be divided by the saw and pliers beyond the disease. After excision has been effected, some care of the tongue is necessary; lest after division of its anterior attachments it should be unduly retracted, and threaten asphyxia. To obviate this, the organ may be temporarily restrained, either by ligature or by forceps; this, however, is only necessary for a few hours, at the end of which the patient will usually be found to have sufficient control over the organ to prevent its being drawn backwards into the pharynx. Sometimes it is expedient to remove a portion of the jaw, on account of ulcer or tumour of the soft parts which has implicated the osseotiB tissue secondarily. One paramount indication must in all such cases be. fulfilled: to remove the whole of the morbid structure, and to cut wide. of the disease. During these operations on the mouth, it is plain, for reasons- formerly assigned, that chloroform must be used warily, and the patient allowed to emerge from deep stupor when blood is flowing into ™_ pharynx from the mouth. Ey incising the mucous membrane, however,' only at the close of the operation, and dividing the bone from the | base towards the alveolar mai'gin, by which the necessity for extractinc j teeth is avoided, bleeding into the mouth can only occur at or towardf i the completion of the operation; so that, except in disarticulating, tjinf , the vessels, and introducuig the sutures, the patient may be kept quit< I unconscious with perfect safety. * Syme, London and Edinburgli Medical Joimial, 1843, p. 964.