27 CONSTRUCTIVE RESULTS. II.—Constmctive Results. These attend on advance of the process ; and also persist, though to a diminished extent, during pai-t of its decline. They may be serous, lymphous, or both. 1. Of Senm containing more albumen, and of higher specific gravity than in health. This attends the whole range of the inflammatory pro- cess, and, separately distinguished, is usually placed cii'cumferentially. Occurring singly, it is the product of a minor degree of the change in the nutrition of the affected part; and, as already stated, may be con- sidered appropriate to the first stage. It is seldom, however, that pure serum is found in connection with the inflammatory process ; it almost always contains a greater or less admixture of fibrin. And this indeed constitutes a distinguishing mark between inflammatory serum, and that which is the product of congestion, or of mere dropsical effusion. This serous fluid is no doubt derived from the vessels, either directly or indirectly; directly, according to the doctrines of the Vienna school of pathology, in the form of effusion or exudation; indirectly, according to the doctrines of Virchow and his followers, by the demands of the connective tissue elements, which, abstracting that portion of the fluid constituents of the blood which forms their paUdum, undergo rapid nuclear proliferation, attain maturity, break up, become fluid, and thus yield the sero-fibrinous product, which differs in its constitution, and more particularly in the amount of fibrin present, according to the rapidity, the nature, the extent, and the situa- tion of the morbid process. (rt.) When the serum is produced in the interior of the part, it occupies the areolar tissue, and constitutes Acute (Edema. The swelling then varies according to the amount of product, and the nature of the recipient part; if the latter be unyielding, tension ensues, with increase of pain and acceleration of the process onwards. But usually the sur- rounding textures are accommodating ; the swelling is found soft when compared with that of fibrinous character ; and yielding before the finger by temporary displacement of the serum, the part is said to pit on pressure. The pitting, however, is much less distinct in the Acute than in the Chronic or Passive Oedema, to be afterwards described. (p.) The product may be from the surface of the part; whence it flows harmlessly away, like the ordinary secretion in health—as in the case of inflaming mucous membrane. Or it accumulates within an internal cavity, as in the case of the serous membranes ; then constituting Acute Dropsy of the part; the bulk, uneasiness, and disturbance to healthy function by pressure, varying according to the extent and rapidity of its formation. Acute production of serum, whether in the form of oedema or dropsy, usually disappears by absorption soon after decline of the morbid process which caused it: herein, again, practically most different from the results of Chronic Congestion. 2. Of Fibrinous and Plastic Results.—These may occur separately from any serous product; but more commonly with the serum, in the form