DISLOCATION ON THE DOESUM. 1322 Fig. 356. Dislocation on the dorsum ilii. external to the capsule is at once known, Ly the distinctness of the crepitus—when extension and rotation are made, and wlien the trochan- ter is pressed inwards. Bruise of the hip-joint is recognised Ly negative signs ; any local symptoms simulating dislocation disappearing under the use of chloroform. Morbus coxarius is recog- nised ^ by its history. When a patient is examined after a severe injury in a state of insensibility, the distinction between a recent traumatic and an old pathological or conge- nital dislocation is easily enough made out, by attending to the state of the muscles, and by observing the sole of the foot and shoe, to see whether or not the patient had walked normally before the accident. When efforts at reduction are effected by extension and counter-extension, they may be made with or without the aid of pulleys and their auxiliaries, according to the date of the injury, the robustness of the patient, and the other circumstances of the case. The patient is placed recumbent on his back; and extension is made obliquely across the opposite limb ; the thigh crossing its fellow a little above the knee. The laque, to which the pulleys are attached, is appHed either above the knee (English surgery), or at the ankle (French surgery), as may be preferred. Counter-exten- sion is made, by means of a strong belt—weU padded — j)assed beneath the perineum, and secured to a fixed point behind the patient. When extension has been maintained for some time, the limb is rotated outwards. It is seldom that we find it expedient to forego the use of chloro- form ; and when this is employed, in recent examples, success is almost sure to follow. In old standing cases, after six weeks have elapsed, the result is doubtful. With chloroform, no other mode of reduction need be tried than the simplest—that just stated. Other methods have, how- ever, been employed with good success, and are well suited for emer- gencies, when no efficient assistance or apj^aratus is available, (a.) (Colombat)—The patient having been placed erect—resting his weight on the sound limb, stooping over a firm table, and having his pelvis fixed securely thereon—the surgeon takes hold of the foot of the afi"ected limb with one hand, and, flexing the leg on the thigh, presses steadily downwards with the other hand, or with his own knee, on the popliteal space. After extension has thus been applied for some time, sudden rotation is made on the hip ; and the bone may, thus simply, move at once into the acetabulum, (b.) Since the days of Hippocrates, with more or less modification, forced flexion of the leg upon the thigh, and of the thigh upon the abdomen, combined with rotation inwards, followed by a movement of abduction or circumduction, terminating in extension of Fig. 356.