THE SEROUS STAGE. 3 the Vital Turgescence of some Physiologists. The part contains an increased amount of blood ; there is a marked tendency to increased pro- duct, partly serous, partly of a lymphous kind. The exciting cause having been removed, this condition may soon subside, and the part recover itself. Or, the exciting cause remaining, the disturbance may be sustained, yet without proceeding to a higher grade ; a salutary result being perhaps secured thereby—more especially when the j)roduct happens to be mainly on a free surface. For instance, it is by the continuance of such simple turgescence of the lachrymal gland that a grain of sand lodging in the conjunctiva is washed away. But, the irritant remaining—or being severe in its nature, though of brief application—there is neither abatement, nor simple maintenance of the changed condition, but advance; and tliis brings us to the second stage. II. The vascular commotion extends on the cardiac side of the affected part j the arterial trunks feeding it have partaken in the disorder, have begun to be enlarged, and to pulsate with unwonted energy. More and more blood is sent down to the part; the capillaries and minute arteries and veins yield more and more to their burden ; the tone in the vascular coats is becoming exhausted, and enlargement is about to be merged in over-distension. The circulation loses its acquired rapidity, and becomes slower even than in health; the red corpuscles are no longer limited to the central current, but encroach more and more on the lateral and clear " lymph spaces ;" while product is more copious than in the previous stage, and of a different kind. It consists chiefly of fibrinous fluid; in which structural elements are found of a plastic kind, along with multiphcation (or hyperplasy) of the elementary cells of the part. There is also an excess of chloride of sodium and of phosphates—a chemical change common indeed, more or less, to all inflammatory products. The natui'al function of the part is now becoming perverted : for ex- ample, secretion is not only increased, but changed in its character. Ey ac- cumulation of the lymphous product, the texture of the part is softened Fig. i. and enlarged. The " formative power," as it is termed, is disordered ; - the supply of plastic material is greater than can be usefully and normally appropriated by the implicated tissues. In other words, nutri- tion, or the normal and vital relation whicli subsists between the living Fig. 1. The ears of a rabbit—a, healthy ; h, the inflammatory process commenc- ing, shewing the dilated state of the vessels, and increased size of the part.—Paget.