62 NITRATE OF SILVER. and this may l)o used instead of tlie common flannel or sponge. Tiie patient may be inclined to place more faith in such an application, than in mere hot water; and, besides, positive benefit is also derivable from the anodyne qualities of the medication. When the inflammatory process is superficial, and attended witli much pain and increase of sensibility, warmth and moisture may be still fiu'ther medicated. Thus, in some forms of erythema, and especially in inflammatory affection of the superficial lymphatics and veins, much relief is obtained by keeping the part constantly moistened witli a boiled solu- tion of acetate of lead and opium; in the proportion of two grains of each to the ounce of water. Or a solution of belladonna may be em- ployed. The form of epithem is sometimes inapplicable ; the part being wholly intolerant of weight and pressure ; as in acute affections of the eye. But, when moderate weight is not objectionable, ■ and the continued applica- tion of heat and moisture is desired, the ordinary poultice is very grate- ful in many cases; made light and soft; free from grease, and all irritants, actual or possible; and renewed as often as maintenance of sufficient temperature requires. Nothing is more suitable for an inflamed ulcer, for a forming boil or abscess, for a recent cut in. erysipelas, or for a sloughing bruise. There are many cases, on the other hand, in which it may be well superseded, by a more elegant and convenient substitute —lint, folded double, or quadruple ; dipped in warm water; laid on the part; and covered by a larger piece of oiled silk or gutta-percha web, which retains the heat and moisture, and prevents soiling of bed and body linen. In ordinary inflaming wounds, for example, this is infinitely the preferable form of application ; more easily obtained and renewed than the common poultice; less odorous ; less heavy and cumbrous; less apt to irritate by degeneration. Or the texture which is now manufac- tured for the pu.rpose, and termed epithem or sjJOJigio-jnline, may be employed. Or in another way heat and moisture may be used ; in the form of steam, as recommended by Dr. Macartney. In inflammatory affections of the throat, glottis, and larynx, this will be found very ser- viceable. Nitrate of Silver has two modes of action ; according to the severity of its apphcation. 1. When passed lightly, in the solid form, over an inflaming part previously moistened, the surface, if subsequently ex- posed to atmospheric influence, becomes black, dry, and hardened; and the same result may be obtained by the use of a strong solution. At the same time, a mitigation of the ordinary s3anptoms of the inflamma- tory process is almost invariably evinced ; if the disease be neither very active nor advanced, and situated not deej)er than the true skin. In simple erythema of the fingers, for instance, often nothing more is re- quisite, except local rest and constitutional care, to achieve speedy and satisfactory resolution. The effect is plainly sedatiA^e and antiphlogistic ; acting directly on the part. In making the application, care should be taken to include not only the whole extent of the inflaming surface, but a margin of apparently sound tissue besides. Iodine, in solution, pencilled frequently on the part, exerts a some- what similar influence. But, on the whole, it is probably inferior to the