357 TKEATMENT OF DISEASE IN SUPPUEATING STAGE. degree the disaster already immediate rcliet; or of retrieving m any iucurred. In the open condition of the ulcerated joint, cure is hy no means hopeless. The probability is that motion Avill be permanently impaired to a certain extent; but wo have usually good hope of retaining the part; amputation, now-a-days, being not the rule but the exception, even, in this class of cases. After the estabhshment of the oj)eii state, not unfrequently the disease advances with increased virulence for a time, as formerly stated; and this exacerbation, expected, is to be met and sub- dued in the ordinary way. Afterwards, by rest, constitutional treatment, and, if necessary, counter-irritation—in addition to the evacuant remedy which has spontaneously formed—the quiet condition is attained. And then the treatment by compression will often be followed by the happiest results; subsidence of swelling, gradual disappearance of all uneasy sensa- tions, closure of the apertures, and diminution of the discharge. The compressing apparatus is aj)plied in the ordinary way, and does not requu'e unusual frequency of renewal; the discharge in the truly quiet condition of the joint—to which state alone such treatment is apphcable—being inconsiderable, and not tend- ing to accumulate injuriously beneath the dressing. Under such circumstances, however, it is expedient to extract all mercurial ingredients from the oint- ment and plaster, otherwise a constitutional influence I may be induced unnecessarily; the open state of the jpart being very favourable to absorption. After satisfactory amendment under the compressing plan, motion is to be cautiously attempted. In some cases, we may succeed in restoring it completely; in others, it is incomplete, partly from alteration in the joint itself, partly from structural change in the ligamentous and other apparatus exterior. In not a few cases, motion is scarcely if at all regained, true anchylosis having occurred. In some cases—but more particularly in the scrofulous destruction of cartilage and subjacent bone—there is no hope of cure, even by anchy- The disease will, as it were, accept of no compromise. If the losis. Jpart be accessible—as the elbow—it is to be removed by the knife, ere Hvet the system have been irretrievably involved in the downward pro- |gres3; if inaccessible,—or supposed to be so, as in some affections of the Jliip (unsuitable for resection)—we must be content to palliate what we {cannot cure. The constitutional symptoms are to be met by the ordinary linearis. Locally, neither counter-irritation nor depletion are to be thought «ot; but rest is all important. By the skilful adaptation of splints, so as p secure immunity from motion, yet without galhng the part or axinoy- •>'.^' the patient, and not interfering with facihty of dressing requisite for '-j^aminess, much comfort is obtained. Life is not only made infinitely l^^^'e tolerable, but maybe protracted for even a considerable period. ^ ' m the most hopeless cases, decided benefit will not fail to shew Fig. 154. Destruction of cartilage, in tlie knee-joint.