AMPUTATION AT THE HIP-JOINT. 137G division of tho muscular textures is so much sliorter as to render the effects of retraction less seriously felt. In transfixion, the flaps are ante- rior and posterior; transfixion is horizontal; and the operation is per- formed in the same way as the analogous procedure in the arm. For- merly it was recommended that the posterior flap should be considerably longer than that in front; to compensate for the greater displacement upwards, by contraction, to which the muscles on the posterior part of the thigh are liable—and also to neutralize the greater amount of per- manent atrophy by absorption, which the posterior flap invariably under- goes. ISTow, on the contrary, compensation is effected for both these conditions by making both a broad and long anterior flap. To effect this, the surgeon should not only grasp the parts in front of the thigh in his hand, before entering the knife, but the assistant who is to retract the flaps should press forwards with the palm of his hand as much of the tissues from the back of the thigh as possible, in order that they may be included in the anterior flap, and constitute a permanent covering for the end of the bone. Immediately after section by the saw, the muscles inserted into the trochanter-minor project the end of the bone forwards ; and, in consequence of this, protrusion at the upper angle of the wound would be apt to take place, were the flaps made laterally; while, as it is, the more the bone is bent forwards, the more completely is its extremity covered by the anterior flap. Amputation at the Hip-Joint. Amputation at the hip-joint is seldom required. The operation is one of great severity, and eminently perilous to life ; yet, when circum- stances are urgent and decided, we need not shrinlc from its performance. For mahgnant disease of the femur, the operation should never be urged upon the patient—as a general rule ; experience having shewn that, even although the operation itself may be temporarily successful, return of disease in the interior has carried off the sufferer. Still there are favourable cases, when the patient's general health remains good, and no local conditions forbid operation, where we should undoubtedly con- sent to his expressed wish. In many cases of injury high up in the thigh, by gunshot, railway accident, or compound fracture, the operation should be unhesitatingly undertaken ; not because it is less fatal under such circumstances, but because it affords the only, though that may be but a faint chance of recovery. The operation is certainly deprived of its horror and danger to a great extent, by the use of chloroform, and by the employment of the abdominal aortic compressor. If the latter is not at hand, a small book may be employed for the purpose, the compres- sion being effected by manual strength. The patient is placed on the table, with his pelvis projecting from the edge. Two assistants hold him steady by the shoulders to prevent the table tilting, or the patient slipping off. A steady assistant, con- ducting the compression, is ready to follow the knife with his fingers, during formation of the anterior flap, so that he may grasp the end of the vessel almost as soon as it is divided The chief assistant supports and controls the limb, ready to follow the movements of the operator's knife