1201 TREATMENT OF INFANTILE SYPHILIS. the mouth, imperfectly developed nails, " pegged teeth," and a tendency to " dotted" keratitis, frequently remain for life, to mark the cause of the constitutional condition of the individual, and to form a key to various other diseased states from which he may suffer. The treatment of congenital syphilis may often he preventive. Thus a man or woman, suffering from primary or constitutional syphilis in its secondary stage, should on no account be permitted to marry, until every manifestation of the disease is cured, and, at all events, a year from the period of invasion has been permitted to elapse. This, indeed, is not enough; for the disease has been known to remain latent for several years, and again break out—perhaps in the parent, but certainly in many cases in the offspring, while the parent manifests no trace of the evil. When, therefore, the treatment previously employed has been unsatis- factory, a thorough constitutional course of mercurials, or syphiHzation, should be had recourse to before marriage is sanctioned. Should marriage, however, have been contracted, or should the individual suffering from syphilitic disease be already married, means must be taken to prevent conception ; and although various expedients for avoiding the result, without renouncing the means, have been recommended, and even safely employed, nothing but the renunciation of all sexual intercourse can be certainly depended on. Should conception have taken place before the medical man is consulted, the rapid and forced administration of anti- syphilitic treatment is the only chance of saving the foetus, and of pro- tecting the mother against the risk of infection by absorption of the disease through her placental connection with the foetus. When the husband is the source of the contamination, he, too, should be subjected to a like process of treatment. Again, should one or more abortions have occurred in succession, followed by the birth of a living but syphilitic child, both parents should at once be subjected to treatment—if the father is the source of contami- nation ; the mother alone, if the father has never had any syphilitic manifestation. Curative treatment in the infant should be commenced at as early a period as possible. This may consist of either the exhibition of mer- cuiials, or the employment of syphilization. Iodide of Potassium in such cases is, in the early stage of the disease, a mere waste of time. In employing syphilization, the pain which attends upon the forma- tion of the ulcers may require the employment of opiates; but the process has no other peculiarity in its adaptation to even a child of the tender est age. When mercurials are employed, the endermic use of the remedy is to be preferred, as being less irritating and less liable to cause enteric complication. The appHcation of the blue mercurial ointment, spread on lint or leather, and kept constantly in contact with the abdomen by means of the binder, is all that is required. Local treatment should con- sist of great attention to cleanUness and the application of desiccants, such as.oxide of zinc powder, to which a small portion of calomel or a large proportion of grey powder may be advantageously added. Of lotions, the alum and oak bark for the oozy state of the sldn—the nitrate of silver, three grains to the ounce, for the affections of the mouth, 4 H