1056 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE RECTUM. syringe for giving enemata was recklessly used by ill-qualified adminiij- trators. The instrument's point, pushed rudely upwards, in a strai'/ht direction, is lilcely to lacerate the bowel. It mny pei-forate ; and then tlie injection, perhaps stimulant and acrid, finds its Avay into tlie areolar tissue causing extensive abscess, and sloughing, with violent constitutional dis- turbance. In such cases, the remedy is to make a free and early incision into the infiltrated parts. But the modern enema-syringe, intrusted only to trustworthy hands, is not likely to lead to any such casualty. Fceces and Foreign Bodies in the Redum. In the elderly of both sexes, but 'especially in the female, with whom irregularity of the bowels is more habitual, the faeces may accumulate within the sphincter, forming a tumour of large size, and occupying not only the whole rectum but also a portion of the sigmoid ilexure. The symptoms are most distressing; painful fulness in the part, bearing down, frequent desire to go to stool, thin and scanty fluid passed, the bladder irritable, sleep disturbed, the stomach disordered, and more or less fever induced. Without examination, the affection may be mistaken for diarrhoea or dysentery ; with an insufficient examination the internal swelHng may be supposed to be a malignant tumour. In cases of doubt, the finger's nail will bring away a sufficiency to test the nature of the concretion. In the milder cases, repeated injections of oil, followed by cathartic enemata, may suffice to clear the bowel. In the more con- firmed examples, it is necessary to introduce the finger or fingers, with a lithotomy scoop, so as to break down the mass; afterwards clearing all away by injection. And two or more such operations may be necessary, at different times; as the higher accumulations may descend only after removal of those which occupied the lower bowel. Afterwards it is obviously of much importance to secure regular and sufficient movement ; with a view to avoid re-accumulation. Foreign substances may lodge in the lower bowel; causing inflamma- tory accession, abscess, and ulceration there, if not removed timeously. They may be pushed upwards from without, by accident, or by mahcious design. Or they may be arrested by the sphincter in their progress downwards, having entered by the mouth ; as fish bones, bones of poultry or other small animals, kernels of fruit, etc. Or they may have formed within the alimentary canal; intestinal concretions. The smaller sub- stances are readily removed by finger and forceps. Large bodies require previous dilatation and lubrication of the bowel; and an exploratory use of the speculum may be useful. In extreme cases of impaction it may be necessary to divide, not only the sphincter, but even the lower part, of the bowel and integuments. In the case of rough or sharp substances, whose forcible extraction in the ordinary way might seriously injure the bowel, a speculum, or pair of large-sized lithotomy forceps, is first care- fully introduced past the foreign body, so as to sheathe and protect the mucous membrane. Imperforate Anus. Children are occasionally born with the anus closed. There are