24 llESOLUTION. cause, the part is prone to undergo inflammatory changes ; and these invariably tend to a speedy and destructive issue. All adventitious structures, also, being of low organization and vitally Aveak, soon yield before the inflammatory process. 4. Temj)erament of the patient. The sanguine temperament favours both rapidity and intensity; in the nervous, disease is readily induced, but is prone to assume the mild and chronic form ; the phlegmatic is unfavourable to occui-rence, rapidity, arid intensity. 5. Diathesis plainly modifies both occurrence and character ; as is exemplified in scrofulous and rheumatic affections. 6. Age. In childhood and infancy, the attack is botli likely and acute ; often its progress is fatally rapid. In adolescence, its general character is also acute; easily induced; but not so apt to end disastrously, there being usually enough of vital power to maintain control Then too, by reason of habitual activity in the nutritive function, the inflammatory process is usually attended by copious product of the more solid kind; either plastic or tubercular, according to the power and disposition of the system. In adult life, disease is probably less easily induced, but is generally acute, and is apt to prove formidable by intensity. Old age is more prone to passive congestion; and when the inflammatory process does occur, it is commonly languid and slow, and tends to an unfavourable result; both part and system being lowered in vital power. 7. As regards Sex; Females are constitutionally prone to inflammatory affections ; but males are more exposed to casual predis- posing and exciting causes ; the latter sex, too, may be considered as pre-eminently liable, to disease of an acute and sthenic type. 8. Habits of intemperance predispose to inflammatory disease; rapid, and acute, but often asthenic, and apt to end injuriously. Sedentary habits are also favourable to accession ; but usaally the disease is more under con- trol. Privation—involuntary or assumed—is unfavourable to accession; and the disease is usually chronic or asthenic. 9. Atmosphere and Sea- son are not only important predisposing causes, but also materially influ- ence progress and type. A foul atmosphere impairs the vital power, and so favours the onward progress to a rapid and unfavourable issue. In like manner, an unhealthy season fully vindicates its title to the name, by its subtle and sinister influence on inflammatory as well as other forms of disease; as the history of erysipelas, especially when epi- demic, abundantly testifies. EESULTS OF THE INFLAMMATOEY PEOCESS. Resohtion. This is the most favourable result, and that to which treatment is usually directed. But let it never be forgotten, that such treatment must be early as well as suitable and active; inasmuch as this result can only be hoped for while the process is yet short of the suppurative stage. That reached, true Eesolution—that is, complete restoration of the part, as regards both structure and function, to its original and normal state— is scarcely possible.