INCISED WOUNDS. 4G7 secoiul is to remove foreign matter Avhich may bo iirosont. Tho third is to arniuge and superintend the Avound ; so as to favour the mode of union whicli, imiler tho particuLir circumstances of the case, we consider most desirahlo. The treatment of wounds lias boon greatly simplified, and improved, of late yeai-s. In the beginning of the seventeenth century, Cajsar Magatus, an Italian surgeon, exerted himself in this way; and, about a century later, Eoccacini warmly supported the practice of his countryman, especially forbidding all greasy or oily applications. But neither of these surgeons seem to have had many followers. And it was not until the middle of the eighteenth century, that our own Percival Pott—abolishing the maxim, " Dolor medicina doloris explaining Nature's powers and mode of healing j adapting surgical treatment so as to assist these; dis- carding the painful and unnatural practices opposed to them, howsoever dignified and guarded by the cloak of antiquity; and so establishing a system at once more rational and less severe—achieved a most important reform in the practice of his profession. His immediate successor, the great John Hunter, by his valuable expositions of the natural processes in both health and disease, and more particularly of the doctrine of adhesion, confirmed the practical reforms of Pott, and stimulated the profession to cultivate and extend them. The gradual result has been, that, amongst other important improvements in surgery, the treatment of wounds has now become as efficient as it is simple and humane. Simplicity, however—which may usually be considered an index of the degree of perfection, in almost all surgical proceedings—is of but recent date. Not very long ago, the dressings of wounds, though stripped of pain and cruelty, were unnecessarily numerous and complex, and like- wise but ill calculated to forward the object for which they were em- ployed. A routine system had been so long followed, that practitioners seemed never to dream of another. All wounds "were put together without delay ; and their edges, having been squeezed into apposition, were retained so by various means, such as sutures, plasters, compresses, and bandages. They were carefully covered up, and concealed from view, for a certain number of days. Then, the envelopes of cotton and of flannel, the compress cloths, the pledgets of healing ointment, and plasters were taken away; loaded with putrid exhalations, and with a profusion of bloody, ill-digested, fojtid matter. A basin was forthwith held under the injured part, and the exposed and tender surface, having been deluged with water from a sponge, was well squeezed and wiped. Then came a re-application of retentive bandage, of the plaster, of the grease mixed Avith drying powder, all surmounted by some absorbent stuff, as^ charpie or tow, to soak up the discharge. This was not unac- companied with pain—often more complained of than that of the original "ijury or operation. The process was repeated day after day. The patient was kept in a state of constant excitement j and often, worn out hy suffering, discharge, and hectic fever, he fell a victim to the practice, ihe system was a bad one—the applications filthy and abominable— ne whole proceedings outraged Nature and common sense. Tho wound was, a.s It were, put into a forcing bed ; excited action, beyond what was .Tiired, was humed on, and the consequence was that speedy union