VELOSYNTIIESIS. 775 iced water, or fragments of ice may be permitted to melt in the mouth when the part becomes hot and uneasy, Not a little self-denial is necessary, on the part of the patient, to avoid the oft-occurring excitements to coughing, hawking, and swallowing, and especially speaking; compliance with which would have a manifestly unfavourable effect upon the woimd. Mr. Fergusson practises a pecuHar modification of the ordinary opera- tion. Believing that steadiness and quietude of the parts operated on are essential to success, his method is directed to obtain this by dividing tlio levator and circumflexus palati, as well as the ]r)alato-'pliarynrjaus and palafo-glossns, before they pass into the structure of the palate. The main opponents of approximation being the levatores palati and palato- pharymjei, ]\Ir. Fergusson effects the division of these muscles by an incision made by a curved lancet-shaped knife, commencing midway between the pharyngeal extremity of the Eustachian tube and the upper surface of the soft palate, and carried forwards parallel to the palatine flaps, as far as the posterior border of the hard palate. By this the levator and circumflexus palati muscles will be divided. Then putting the palate on the stretch Avith forceps, the jpalato-pliaryngeus, consti- tuting the posterior pillar of the fauces—and, if need be, the palato- (jlossus, constituting the anterior pillar of the fauces—on each side, is divided by means of curved blunt-pointed scissors. The rest of the operation needs no further description, as it is precisely the same as the ordinary one, consisting in the paring of the fissure and the introduction of sutures. Further experience of this operation has not led to its general adoption. Indeed, the whole secret of success seems to lie in the use of wire sutures, and in excluding the nasal mucous membrane from the loop of the suture ; while, in the after treatment, the maintenance of absolute silence must be enjoined, more especially after the sutures have been removed. By yet another method introduced by M. Cloquet, closure of the cleft may be effected. An olive-shaped cautery, heated to a cherry-red tint, is applied to the commissure of the split, at suitable intervals, till, after many burns, the space is gradually obliterated by cicatricial con- traction. A long period is necessarily occupied in the work ; but the means are neither painful nor hazardous, and the result though slow is sure.* Besides, as under chloroform this method is applicable to the case of children, it possesses the advantage of enabling us to cure the deformity while the patient is still of tender years, and before the naso- .guttural articulation becomes so habitual as to be irremediable. Ulceration and Exfoliation of the Palate. The lining membrane of both the hard and the soft palates is liable to ulceration, from ordinary or specific causes. The most intractable, and not least frequent examples, are those which are connected with the syphilitic taint of system. Here the ulcer affects all the textures of the ■^oft palate as well as the bone in the hard, producing perforation, exfoHatioji * Momoire sur une methoile d'appliqncr la cauterisation aiix divisions anormales Ipscortains organes, et speciakment h cellos dn voile dn palais ; par M, Jiilps Oloqiipt.