1059 OPERATION FOR ARTIFICIAL ANUS. tlio anus is inconveuieiitly situated, in one respect—the patient being the victim of discomfort to liimself as well as the source of annoyance to those around him. Tlie site has its advantages, however, too. The operation is easy, and its steps certain ; the anus, after a time, gets to possess something of a sphinctral power, from the muscular parietes; and the offensive escape of its contents may be guarded against by wearing a well-fitted ti-uss, the manipulation of which is easily within reach of the patient. The posterior operation, proposed by Callisen, and greatly improved by Amussat, is performed thus ; its object being to open the colon on its posterior part, where it is uncovered by peritoneum, and which bare space may be expected to be considerable when the bowel is much dis- tended by its contents :—The patient is laid on the side, with the trunk bent somewhat towards the right; and with a pillow also placed be- neath the abdomen, so as to make the left loin prominent. A trans- verse incision is made, commencing at the outer border of the common mass of the sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi, and extending about four inches in length in the adult, between the last false rib and the crest of the ilium, about two fingers' breadth above the latter; and if any considerable obesity exist, the posterior part of the wound is crossed by a second incision, parallel to the range of the spinous processes. The different layers of fat, fascia, and muscle, are carefully divided in succes- sion, on the outside of the border of the sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi; and portions of fat, coming much in the way, may require to be removed altogether. Intestine having been exposed, some doubt may be felt as to its being the colon or not; the bulging viscus at the bottom of the deep wound may be colon, or small intestine, or kidney. In regard to the last, manipulation and percussion will readily enough characterize intes- tine. And the great gut may be distinguished from the small, by atten- tion to the following circumstances :—the colon has its muscular fibres of greater development; the small intestines sustain a motion of alternate ascent and descent—communicated by the diaphragm, and corresponding to expiration and inspiration—while the colon is stationary, being fixed to the loins by areolar tissue ; also, if two portions of bowel present themselves, that may naturally be expected to be the colon which is on the outer aspect, at the external border of the quadratus lumborum. Having become satisfied that the colon is exposed at the bottom of the wound, it is transfixed by a needle and ligature—at two points, above and below—so that it may not shp from its present relation to the wound, after an opening has been made and the contents have begun to escape. The bowel, stretched by the two ligatures drawn outwards, is divided freely between. Air and fluid contents at once pass outwards ; but it may be necessary, by means of the finger, scoop, or forceps, to a.<?sist in extrusion of the sohd matters. The margins of the opening in the bowel are then secured by suture to the external wound, so that, by adhesion there, a permanent, safe, and efficient aperture may be con- -^tituted for ftccal escape.