12G8 IMPERFORATE VAGINA. may Le found terminating in a blind cul-de-sac, at no great distance from the orifice. In such a case, exploratory incision, such as has been recommended in obliterated vagina, is warrantable, in search of the uterus, in the adult; if, on careful examination, by the rectum and otherwise, there is a tolerable certainty of that organ being present, and that the menstrual evacuations are secreted and retained. A more frequent imperfection occurs at the orifice ; the other parts of the canal being well developed, and in a normal state. The mem- brane of the hymen may be excessive, and imperforate; or the vagina itself may be shut up, by a more solid and fleshy structure. If dis- covered in infancy, the thin membrane may be easily ruptured with a probe, and a sufficiently patent aperture provided for after exigencies. In most cases, however, interference is not required at this early age; the malformation may not be discovered until about the time of puberty ; and then, on account of non-appearance of the menstrual discharge, and the persistence of uneasy sensations in the pelvis and parts affected by retention of the secretion, attention is directed to the state of the genital organs. The obstructed fluid may be found bulging through a thin membranous septum; or there may, from the thickness of the struc- tures closing the canal, be no bulge or fluctuation. In the one case, simple division of the membrane sufiices to establish the normal state. In the other, careful incision is required, as in the case of imperforate anus; and the same necessity exists for afterwards maintaining the proper calibre of the part by suitable means. Immediately after inci- sion, it is well to insure thorough evacuation of the pent-up fluid, washing out the vagina with tepid water, by means of a syringe. In cases of this kind, the accumulated menstrual fluid may fill and dilate not .only the vagina, but also the uterus ; expanding the latter as in pregnancy, and causing even some of the equivocal symptoms of that state. The operation of evacuation is not without danger, espe- cially if performed in hospitals; the dangers being by purulent fever and phlebitis. The fluid evacuated is generally dark red, or mahogany coloured, very viscid and grumous ; but these characters vary. In a case recently under my care, the distension of the vulva resembled a child's head in size, while the uterus rose nearly to the umbilicus. The patient sought advice on account of the pain, and retention of lu-ine, which were present. On passing the catheter, the urethra, by being stretched over'the tumour, easily admitted the finger. I first tapped the vagina with a trocar and canula, and drew off a basonful of fluid; and then, waiting till the uterus had subsided, I freely incised the fleshy hymen in the middle line. The two sides of the incision were kept apart with oiled lint for a few days, and healed separately without bad results of any kind. Sometimes, adhesion of the nymphee takes place in children ; the opposed surfaces having become raw, on account of neglect of cleanli- ness, or in consequence of these parts suffering in sympathy with dis- order elsewhere, and a purulent discharge having become established. In general the cohesion is slight, and easily broken up by means of the flat end of a probe. For some days, interposition of dressing is neces- sary, to prevent reunion.