OXALURIA. 10G7 ill their angles. Occasionally the crystals arc " made itp of a square prism, Avith a four-sided pyramid at each end, forming a dodecahedron." Another form much more rare, and possibly not composed simply of oxalate of lime, is that of dumb-boll-shaped or oval crystals, often re- sembling " two kidneys Avith their concavities opposed," and possessing a beautiful radiating structure in some cases, while in others they appear homogeneous. The crystals are insoluble in alkalies or in vegetable acids ; soluble in muriatic or nitric acid ; and on being subjected to a red heat are decomposed, leaving carbonate of lime, which dissolves with effervescence on the addition of acids. In regard to the pathological or physiological origin of oxalate of hme, in the economy, many speculations exist; but none of them are sufficiently precise or well founded to claim attention in a practical work. It is very probable that this deposit has some relation to the decomposition of the tissues, and is formed at the expense of urea or uric acid. The attendant constitutional symptoms are occasionally slight; com- monly, however, they are sufficiently characteristic and distressing to require attention and treatment. The patient is languid, weak, and thin; often remarkably depressed in spirits ; usually pale, sometimes of a greenish hue in the face—more especially about the eyes and mouth ; pustular formations on the skin are common ; and so are scaly eruptions; the shghtest exertion induces great fatigue; the temper is irritable ; the mind broods over the ailment, and desponds of recovery ; dyspepsia is present—troublesome, by flatulence and palpitation, more especially after taking food; aching pain is complained of across the loins; and the sexual power is usually much impaired. Sometimes the symptoms of phthisis are simulated; sometimes those of heart disease. Not un- frequently, water is made with unusual frequency, and with heat and smarting. The ordinary causes of this affection are, over-exertion of mind or body, excess of venereal indulgence, habitual and gross errors of diet, exposure to cold, injuries done to the lower part of the spine. The oxalic acid would seem to be the product of faulty assimilation; and it readily meets with its base. According to some,,the acid may be intro- duced from without; it being supposed to be one of those substances which are capable of passing unchanged from the stomach to the kid- neys. According to this view, the taking of rhubarb, sorrel, tomata, etc., as articles of food, along with the use of hard water as drink, may be deemed very favourable for the establishment of the oxalate of lime deposit. The treatment resembles that for the phosphatic diathesis. The general functions are looked to ; but more especially those of the stomach and skin. Diet is light and nourishing. Malt liquor is forbidden ; and a sparing allowance of brandy and water, with meals, is found preferable to "wine. Sugar is abstained from. W^arm clothing must be worn ^ and by friction, exercise, and warm bathing, the pores are to be kept free. All sources of exhaustion, and all lands of depletion are to be avoided. Medicinally, the mineral acids arc found of much service ; especially the nitro-muriatic, exhibited in some bitter infusion. And of the tonics, zinc and iron are to be preferred; the sulphate of zinc more especially.