427 THExVTMENT OF TRAUMATIC ANEURISM. latter occurs to :i greater or less extent. The symptoms arc the same as in the ordinary tumour ; with the addition of varicose enlargement of the vein, and unusual activity of circulation Avithin it. A pe- culiar thrill and bruit are at the same time readily percep- tible by the finger and ear; compared by some to the noise of the fly-wheel of a musical box, by some to the purring of a cat, and by others to the pjg buzzing of a fly confined in a paper bag; once observed, easily remembered. In other words, the ancurismal bruit is unusually distinct and palpable (bruit de diable). Treatment is the same as for the ordinary form of traumatic aneurism. Sometimes it may be practicable to tie the artery above and below its aperture of communication, by lateral incision and dissection ; leaving the sac and dilated vein intact. A similar condition may be the result of disease without any injury. Suppose an artery and vein in juxta-position ; as the abdominal aorta and vena cava. An aneurism al pouch begins to form in the artery, and extends in the direction of the vein; the cyst becoming incorporated with the venous coats. Perforation occurs in both tissues; and an aperture, more or less free, is established between the two vessels, entail- ing a constant and free commixture of their contents. Such a condition of parts, so situated, is plainly irremediable. Spontaneous cure, by occlusion of the aperture and consolidation of the cyst, is possible, but not probable. Usually the result is fatal; by disorder of the general health, which the faulty circulation cannot fail to produce. Aneurismal Varix is a second variety j and may also occur at the bend of the arm. The ar- tery and vein communicate, as in the former case ; but without any cyst interposed, the artery playing directly into the venous cavity. The swelling is less, but more dif- Fig. 186. o J fused; the circulation is more plainly tumultuous ; thrill and bruit are more or less distinct, according to the size of the communicating aperture ; vari- cose distention of the vein is great. Painful sensations, with ^ some interstitial swelHng, at- »—^ tend on the first formation. ^ ~ But these subside gradually, and may at length almost wholly disappear ; the morbid state rcmaiuing Fig. 185. Varicose aneuri,sm. a, The artery; h, the vein ; c, the intermediate Cy8t.--SlR C. P,KI,T.. F'g. 180. Outline of varicose anouri.sm. Diagram. 187. Outline of aneiiri.sraal Varix. Diagram.