281 ABSCESS OF BONE. curred. The practice, under the circumstances, is to attempt discussion by the means formerly detailed as suitable for absorption of the chronic results of the inilanimatory process. The fluid is gradually taken back into the system ; the cavity proportionally contracts ; and the bone recovers its normal state. Failing in discussion, or from any cause acute accession having supervened, then direct, free, and early incision is to be practised unhesitatingly; as undoubtedly the less of two evils. Chi-onic collections of fluid on the surface of bone, between it and the periosteum, ai-e often connected with the syphilitic, or mcrcurio- syphihtic cachexy. These might seem to be peculiarly unpromising; but they are not. Even when the bone is obviously rough and spongy, having undergone irregular absorption of its calcareous elements by the gi-adual changes induced by the modification of the nutritive processes, incision is to be abstained from; and under full and sustained doses of iodide of potassium internally, with the external use of counter-irritants, rapid and permanent cure wiJl usually be obtained. Internal Abscess.—This may be either Difi'use or Limited. 1. Diffuse—Osteo-myelitis.—The inflammatory process has reached the sup- purative crisis in the lining membrane and medullary substance of the in- terior of a bone. The pent-up pus, so soon as formed, acts as a fresh source of irritation, the area of the disease extends its limits, and difluse suppura- tion of the whole soft tissues contained within the medullary canal usually takes place. At the same time a like process of suppurative cell-multiplica- tion occurs throughout the cancellated and laminated textures of the bone, and between the periosteum and bone, so that matter is sooner or later found beneath the periosteum, and ultimately also in the more superficial soft textures; but, as can be readily imagined, not till after some time, much agony, great swelling, and serious constitutional disturbance. The fate of bone, under such circumstances, is inevitably untoward. It must die; and in the case of the long bones usually extensively. The treatment is to make a free direct incision, so soon as the pre- sence of matter can be ascertained. The pus is discharged; further extension of mischief is probably prevented; and an opportunity is pro- cured, favoui-able for extrusion of dead parts, and for otherwise remedying the disaster already sustained. Constitutional antiphlogistics are at the same time employed; proportioned to the symptoms. If progress towards cure be slow, discharge copious, and the natural power of the system weak, hectic is not improbable; and the general remedies must change accordingly. Such diffuse osteo-myelitis occurring after amputa- tion, or the removal of an exostosis, or any operation or injury implicat- ing the medullary canals and sufi&cing to excite suppuration, has frequently been observed to determine the occurrence of pytemia, and a consequently fatal result. 2. Limited Internal Abscess.—The occurrence of this is more rare. The cancellous texture of the heads of the long bones—more especially of the tibia—^is the ordinary site. The patient is at or beyond the middle age; and generally has been much exposed to inclemency of weather. The abscess is minute, the su]ipuratcd part seldom exceeding the space of a shilling in extent; and it is surrounded and limited by dense firm bone—obviously the result of the usual plastic change peculiar