DISEASE OF THE VERTEBRiH. 957 tlie case in adults, iu children the accession is seldom really connected with any obvious exciting cause. In adidts, the disease occurring in the lumbar region, is sometimes referrible to venereal excesses. How- ever occasioned, it follows the ordinary course of caries elsewhere ; usually Hmited to two or three hones, aud their intervertebral cartilages ; some- times, indeed, though rai-ely, originating in the latter texture. It never mvolves any considerable number of the whole chain. Its most frequent site is in the dorsal region, and it occui'S most commonly in children imder ten years of age. Usually it is associated with, and probably dependent on, the strumous diathesis. Sometimes obscure spinal symp- toms precede the open development of the disease; such as pain, uneasiness, numbness, and weakness in the limbs; spasmodic twitch- iugs; a sense of tightness round the chest corresponding to the bones affected; obstinate bowels; alkaline urine, with trouble in discharging it. More commonly, in the part, which is usually slightly swoln over the affected vertebra, there is dull uneasiness, and ultimately pain, which is increased by pressure, and rendered intense by sharp percussion—or by motion, as when the patient attempts to stoop or turn in bed. The gait is tottering and uncertain ; for the limbs are shrunken, benumbed, and more or less rigid and tense; and at this stage the condition of the extremities is due not to mechanical pressure on the spinal cord, but to irritation of this organ, produced by the inflammatory process affecting the neighbouring bodies of the vertebree. The back, in walk- ing, is kept peculiarly stiff, so as to avoid movement of the diseased bones. AVhen the curvation is advanced, the patient usually, in walking, seeks to take as much weight off the spine as he can, by placing his hands upon the front of the thighs or knees. As matter forms, symptoms of paralysis gradually manifest themselves; affecting different parts, according to the site of the vertebral disease ; and motion is usually impaii-ed before sensation—as can readily be understood, on reference to the anatomical arrangement of the nerves given off from the spinal cord. If the patient's limbs are not paralysed, and he maintains the erect pos- tm-e, angular curvature, forwards, advances more and more. The matter, in which the carious mass is bathed, gradually accumulating, seeks an outlet, and points at some part of the surface—in the loins, when the disease is situated in the dorsal vertebrae—or at some more distant point, as in the groin, above or below Poupart's ligament—having made its way to this situation along the course of the psoas muscle, on one or both sides. As the matter makes progress, and is no longer confined and bound down close to the bone, the patient is usually much relieved, both as regards ease from pain, and by disappearance of the paralysis, should this have occurred. The ultimate result may be cure by anchy- losis ; the inflammatory softening of the bone stopping short of manifest suppuration. Tlie curve, however, remains permanent; in fact, rather increases during the process of consolidation and fusion, which results in the bodies of the affected vertebrae. Much more frequently, the issue IS fatal; either occun-ing rapidly, after suppuration has taken place, by the effects of pressure on the spinal cord; or more gradually, and not until the abscess has been evacuated, by hectic and exhaustion. Some- timus, but rarely, the suppuration diminishes, the abscess-sac and the