12G7 OTIIETl AFFECTIONS OF THE VAGINA, lias uiulortakon the troatmont of such cases, since ilio introduction of silver wire as the suture, that no one need fear to undertake the opera- tion, nor anticipate the occurrence of any difficulty which the most moderate manipulative skill will not suffice to overcome. The use of the actual cautery has accordingly, even in the smaller cases, been very generally abandoned. Stricture of the Vagina. This may be the result of previous inflammatory change, indurating the mucous and submucous tissues of a part of the vagina; or it may follow on the healing of a wound received during artificial delivery, or otherwise; or it may be consequent on ulceration, either of a specific character, or produced by a badly arranged pessary. Finally it may be the result of cancerous formation. Under ordinary circum- stances, it is amenable to the same treatment, by gradual dilatation, as contractions of other mucous canals. But the surgeon's aid is seldom called for, except during the crisis of parturition; the progress of the child having become obstructed, by an unyielding contraction of the vagina—usually situated at the upper part of the canal, and probably the result of a previous unfortunate labour. In such cases, sometimes, nothing is required beyond considerable patience on the part of the accoucheur ; in others, remedial means, such as are used in cases of rigid cervix uteri during labour, are often highly serviceable. In extreme cases the accoucheiu-'s finger or sponge-tents may effect the necessary enlarge- ment. These failing, the duty of the surgeon is, by a probe-pointed bistoury, introduced on the finger, to notch the contracted part at various points—chiefly in the direction of the sides of the pelvis, so as to avoid injury of the bladder or rectum; and then, by progress of the child's head, or by the finger of the operator, complete dilatation is effected. Ohliteration of the Vagina, To a greater or less extent, is occasionally met with ; arising from the same causes as stricture. Then much constitutional disorder must result, from arrest of the uterine discharges; and it is desirable to restore the canal, at least to such an extent as to admit of a due pei'- formance of the excretory functions of the organ. The knife, or the trocar, is used, guided in a proper direction by the finger in the rectum; and the bladder is carefully preserved, a catheter in its cavity being manipulated so as distinctly to point out its proximity. The passage made is kept dilated, by means of bougies. If the patient has ceased to menstruate, no operation may be required. Artificial obliteration of the vaginal orifice by operation, was recommended by Vidal de Cassis in severe and otherwise irremediable cases of vesico-vaginal fistula. Rut recent experience in the treatment of such cases with silver wire sutures proves that this occlusion of the vagina is unnecessary. Imperforate Vagina or Hymen. The vagina may seem well formed externally ; but on examination,