COMPEESSION OF THE BRAIN. GOG In compression—the injury being usually limited to but a part of the brain—the heart's action may, at first, be little if at all affected; the skin, consequently, may retain its natural warmth and hue, and the pulse its fulness. In concussion immediately fatal, death takes place by syncope. In compression, the fatal result is due to coma. The essential peculiarity of the latter is, " that respiration takes place imperfectly, and ultimately is suspended, probably by reason of the defect of sensation. The circulation, and sometimes the animal heat, not only continue entire up to the moment when the last breath is drawn, but even survive the respiration for a short time; during which time, of course, venous blood moves along the arteries ; but the venous blood, according to the general law established in the physiology of respiration, soon ceases to make its way through the capillaries of the lungs, and the circulation is therefore soon brought to a stand .... We know from physiology, that the part, of the nervous system which must be specially affected in these cases, when the failure of respiration is the inmiediate cause of death, must br at the sides of the medulla oblongata; but the part visibly injured '" often considerably distant from this."* Pressure may be made on the brain in various ways. By extrav tion of blood ; in its substance, on its surface, or between the membran By formation and accumulation of pus, or other products of the inflam matory process—either cerebral or intra-membranous. By fracture q the cranium, with depression of the broken part or parts. By lodg ment of foreign bodies in the brain, or on its surface. By the forma tion of adventitious growth, in connection with either the cranium o its contents ; exostosis, osteosarcoma, or osteocephaloma of the cranium i tubercular, or other tumour of the brain or its membranes. It is pro bable that compression is also occasioned by mere congestion ; a sta' of over-distension of the blood-vessels, with accumulation of serou product. It is highly important to bear in remembrance, that symptoms p cisely similar to those ordinarily produced by compression of the br"* may be, and frequently are, induced by other circumstances, when apparent pressure is in operation. Certain poisons, for example, hay; this effect. But—what is of more consequence in a surgical point c view—such a train of symptoms almost invariably attends on disor zation of the cerebral tissue by inflammatory change ; and that, when the inflammatory products seem to be of such a nature as not t occasion pressure in any great degree. In surgery, we have chiefly to do with those examples which induced—First, by external violence, producing depressed fracture, ( extravasation of blood ; or Second, those Avhich are a more or less dista result of injury inflicted on the head—viz. inflammatory change; sero and fibrinous accumulation, and suppuration. Symptoms of Compression.—In all these conditions, the most chara; teristic symptoms are found affecting the respiration and the puis Breathing is slow, labouring, and loudly stertorous; in concussion i was gentle and sighing. A peculiar whiffing, by the mouth, is not u. frequent during expiration—as is observed in smoking, or in the ordin~" * Alison, Outlines of Pathology, p. 8.