ABSCESS OF THE BRAIN. 618 readily be understood, the latter site of reap plication is preferable. And as already stated, a large size of trephine should be employed at first, to anticipate the necessity of such repetition. Only in very extreme cases should the site of contrecoup be trephined. Having failed in the indi- cated spot, we proceed to other explorations with great uncertainty,. Fortunately, however, it is comparatively seldom that the site of abscess^ is elsewhere than at the injured part, when such requirements for the performance of the operation are satisfactorily recognised before proceed-., ing to perforate the skull. But, if the case be under our cognizance from the first, we have a t higher aim than the mere exercise of our art by operation ; seeking to: j prevent the formation of abscess, not to attempt its cure. The patient, who has sustained an injury of the head, of any severity, is carefully i watched throughout the whole period of convalescence ; and the first- symptoms of inflammatory accession within the cranium are met by active and sustained antiphlogistics—more especially blood-letting, quietude avoidance of all stimuli of both part and system, low diet, purgatives, anc perhaps calomel; assisted, if need be, after a time, by counter-irritatioik In spite, however, of every care and any treatment, experience has unfoM tunately proved, only too surely, that where the inflammatory procesi commences in the bone or dura mater at the seat of injury, the affectioj generally runs its fatal course unchecked by treatment. "When suppuration has taken place either in the substance of the braij or on its surface, the case is obviously not amenable under ordinary cix cumstances to direct surgical interference, and may generally be said tj prove fatal. Still in any case where it has been deemed expedient tj perforate the cranium and divide the dura mater in search of pus, if should have any good reason for thinking that an abscess lay close beneatj there could be no possible objection to making an incision into the cei; bral substance, as was on one occasion practised with success by Dupi tren in apparently hopeless circumstances.* Cure is then beyond o| reach; but perhaps prevention was not. And the latter indicatiq should sufiiciently occupy our regard in the previous treatment of injury. *■ H When a severe scalp wound has been sustained, with bruising (j fissure of the bone, it is not uncommon for the character of the woi to degenerate as in the case of dura-matral abscess, with some constiti^ tional disturbance of an unpleasant character. But neither the mei ingitic symptoms, nor those of compression, appear. Suppuration li^ taken place in the diploe. If fissure exist—perhaps extending on through the external table—pus will be found oozing outwards. !•> largement of the chink is necessary, however, for more free evacuatic If there have been no previous solution of continuity, and such syniptci be present as to render our diagnosis certain, the trephine may be u^i for removal of a portion of the external table. * Bless, par ai-mes de Guerre, torn. ii. p. 146.