AFFECTIONS OF THE INTERNAL EAR. 842 anchylosis of the stapes to the fenestra ovalis, ossification of the fenestra rotunda, the existence of exostoses or tumours pressing upon the fenestne, or upon the auditory nerve, and lastly, ntropliy of tlic nerve, or of its dis- tribution. Our knowledge of these conditions is chiefly due to the pains- taking devotion of Mr. Toyiibee to the subject; but our acquaintance with them has not added much to our diagnosis of their existence, and still less to the range of treatment. They are of importance, however, as demonstratmg the absurdity of a long-continued treatment of cases Avhere symptoms are wanting to indicate the existence of the diflFerent forms of disease already described; which, till recently, were confounded with each other, and with the very vague disease, nervous deafness, wliich, indeed, was intended to include all cases of an obscure and intractable kind. Practically, perhaps, such is still the case. Nervous deafness is presumed to be due to some diseased condition of the auditory nerve or of its organ of distribution; but the cases in which the ner^'-ous apparatus is really at fault should still further be limited to those examples, where not only no appreciable organic change in the organ of hearing can be observed during Ufe, but also where the deafness is so absolute that sound is not even recognised by communication through the bones of the head. The treatment of such cases mainly consists in attention to the state of the general health, an entire absence of anything like severe measures, with the employment of gentle counter-irritation, and the use of remedies suited to control the syphilitic, gouty, or strumous diathesis, if present. Organic Change in the Brain is not an unfrequent cause of deafness ; and seldom admits of successful treatment. Hopes of amendment will mainly rest on counter - irritation, and on mercurialism moderately employed. Functional Disorder of the Nerve is fortunately a more frequent, as well as more hopeful cause; variously induced—as by blows, falls, loud noises, disorder of the general health, etc. Besides obviating the induc- ing cause, employing counter-irritation, and perhaps venturing on mer^ cuiialism, benefit may be obtained from the endermic use of strychnine —as in the analogous case of functional amaurosis. Or some advise a few di'ops of an alcoholic solution of strychnine to be dropped into the ear, or to be injected through the Eustachian catheter, from time to time- This has also been of late years recommended in the treatment of dis- tressing tinnitus aurium by Kramer, who attributes this symptom not to any morbid condition of the auditory nerve, but to irritation acting upon the chorda tympani. Determination of Blood to the Head, in consequence of suppression of normal or habitual discharge, or however induced, is not unlikely to pro- duce a certain degree of deafness, along with noises and other unpleasant sensations in the head. Treatment is by leeching or cupping, purging, and other means ordinarily found available to overcome local plethora. Otalgia. earache ; a neuralgic affection, unconnected, This constitutes true directly, with the inflamnuitoi-y pi-ocoss. Vcjy frequently it is con