TREATMENT OF MORTIFICATION. 144 affected, cannot be too soon performed. It it be but the effects of bruise, reapplication of retentive means, avoiding undue pressure or constriction, ai'c all that the circumstances require. In the acute inflammatory forvi^ removal of the cause is to be attempted, by antiphlogistics. And, prevention being better than cure, it will of course be advisable to have recourse to these early and efficiently; so as to arrest the inflammatory progress timeously, and save the vitality of the part. But let not the chance of immunity from gangrene be purchased at too high a cost. Copious general blood-letting, with other spoliative and depressmg remedies, may make much impression on the inflammatory process; and so limit at least the occurrence of gangrene, at the time. But the process of separating the dead parts, followed by attempts at repair, has to come, with its exhausting discharge; the powers of the system are certain to be severely tried ; and if they have been at the outset imprudently exhausted, they cannot fail to sink when they are most reqiiired. Besides, bleeding may not secure even the temporary benefit; on the contrary, general and local power may be so weakened thereby, as to render these textures an easier prey than they otherwise would have been. Often antiphlogistics are thus used, with a blind and rash impro- vidence. The cure is protracted and embarrassed ; the system is enfeebled, and perhaps for ever broken ; or even the issue may be fatal; Cases of threatened gangrene, after severe bruise, laceration, fractiu-e, etc., afford abundant illustration of this practical point. The ulterior result must always be regarded, along with the present; and both provided for. We are to prevent or limit gangrene if we can : yet using antiphlogistics so as to make sure of leaving power enough of system, for defence from hectic and exhaustion during the suppurative stage. Also let it be borne in mind, that it is only before, and at the very commencement of gangrene, that antiphlogistics can ever be actively employed. When mortification has been fau'ly established, the symp- toms change, and require a corresponding alteration of treatment; in- flammatory fever, sthenic, is superseded by asthenic constitutional irrita- tion. And further, when gangrene is both certain to occur, and to prove extensive, the symptoms corresponding to that result are often fore- shadowed in the characters of the preceding inflammatory attack both locally and generally ; modifying these in so marked a manner, as at once to enlighten the experienced practitioner regarding the impending issue. In such a state, not unfrequently connected with a previously debihtated power of system, antiphlogistics, at however early a period employed, must invariably be used with the greatest caution and forbearance. On the other hand, if the inflammatory attack be intense, hmited, seated in an important part, with both local and general symptoms plainly sthenic in character, and occurring in a robust unbroken fi'ame—we may bleed copiously and fearlessly ; employing also the other suitable antiphlogistics with energy. For, in these circumstances, such are the only true preven- tives of gangrene. Constitutional remedies, foolishly held as specifics, and termed Antiseptics, were at one time much in vogue ; and may not yet liave fallen altogether into desuetude. Of these, the most prominent was bark ;