70 STIMULANTS AND SOKBEFACIENTS. regulated, as to both extent and depth, Wlien applied with any degi-ee of intensity, the pain is great, as can readily he conceived—unless anaesthesia be employed; nor is the patient's alarm and apprehension at all trifling. But one advantage certainly attends its extreme apphcation ; viz., that, after combustion is over, the pain very rapidly subsides. The part seems to be Idlled so thoroughly, throughout the whole thickness of the true skin, that it is incapable of further sensibility. The surrounding skin may be protected, during combustion, by wetted lint; but it seldom altogether escapes injury; and is usually the seat of tingling pain, by and by aggravated by inflammatory accession. The apphcation of cold water, immediately after the burning, is most grateful. By this means, very ef&cient and very varied counter-irritation may be effected. And it was long considered a potent remedy, in chronic affections of deep-seated joints; both of inflammatory, and of neuralgic origin. Indeed, it is not easy to understand, how latterly it should have become so much neglected ; unless it be from requiring a special apparatus for the application, and from the not unnatural disinclination, which most jDeople possess, towards so deliberate and undisguised an apphcation of fire to the most sensitive portion of their frame. When employing any form of the actual cautery, in cases however suitable, let it be borne in mind that such an application may prove in itself an untoward influence on both part and system; and its effects ought always to be carefully watched, with this fact in our remembrance. For example, it is a good rule in practical surgery, after having failed with this most powerful agent to arrest the progress of destruction in a joint, not at once to proceed to amputation, even should the hectic seem urgent; but to attempt to obtain cicatrization as soon as possible, and wait a little. Perhaps the hectic, as well as the local disorder, may happily decline ; a fresh opportunity for other practice may be afforded ; and, after all, the limb may be saved. In other words, it is just possible that the cautery, not the disease, may have been the cause of the con- stitutional urgency. Stimulants and Sortefacienis.—These, being latest of application, come naturally last in the order of enumeration. Let us suppose that an intense inflammatory attack has been first broken, by blood-letting and other sedatives and evacuants, and that its subsequent chronic Hngerings have been effectually overcome by judicious counter-irritation. The part is found free from perverted function, chronic as well as acute, but still labouring under some change of structure, from which it is unable effectually to clear itself; or, the task seeming onerous, it is, as it were, loath to begin. It is then that this last class of remedies proves highly advantageous; restoring tone to the textures, vessels, and nerves of the part, rousing the sluggish circulation to normal vigour, and hastening the progress of absorption. If the inflammatory process have been but transient, such adventitious aid will probably not be requhed. The part, freed from function of a perverted kind, at once resumes that of the normal standard; becomes its own physician ; works its own cm-e. But in all cases where the process has been continued, inevitably causing con- siderable structural change, not merely is such extraneous assistance expedient; it is only by a patient continuance of its use that local health