rEOLIFEROUS CYSTS. 169 though usually slow, may ultimately attain to groat size. Treatment varies according to circumstances; sometimes we are content with tap- ping and palliation ; sometimes we tap and inject; sometimes we ven- ture on extirpation of the entire mass. 2, The Cutaneous—sometimes termed par excellence '^Encysted tumours"—ai-e either lined with cutaneous structure, or from a simple cyst there is secreted more or less of the usual products of skin. Some- times they are deep-seated, as in the ovary ; more frequently they are superficial—subcutaneous. Sometimes they are congenital, as in the lower part of the forehead. Much more frequently they form after birth. The most frequent site is on the surface of the body, more especially on the head and face; and then the cyst is often merely an enlargement of original texture. For there seems no reason to doubt the origin ot many of these Wens from obstruction or imperfect congenital development of an ordinary sebaceous follicle, and consequent dilatation by accumula- tion of its contents. Were the swelling rapid and inflammatory, a pimple or boil would form. But the growth is very gradual, and wholly non-inflammatory. The sebaceous secretion accumulates, and distends the follicle; the parietes of which are not merely expanded, but receive support by nu- trition, and by condensation of the surround- ing parts. The obstructed orifice may for some considerable time remain apparent as a black central point; afterwards wholly dis- appearing, and the tumour becoming enveloped by smooth, tight, and thin integument, without breach or depression. The scalp and eyebrows are the parts most frequently affected. In the former situation, they seldom occur singly, but in numbers; and vary in size from a pea to an orange. In the latter—as well as in the eyelids—where the simple serous cysts, however, are more coni- Fig. 54. The cyst, if un- mon—they are sometimes found single ; and seldom exceeding the dimensions of a pea or bean, irritated by pressure, friction, or other stimuli, is but loosely "adherent to the surrounding parts ; dehcate in the eyelids j strong and thick m the eyebrow and scalp. After repeated or habitual excitement it becomes mtimately incorporated with the parts exterior; and can be separated from them only by regular dissection. The contents are various; at first sebaceous, being merely an accumulation of the ordi- nary secretion, somewhat perverted ; afterwards, and usually soon charges occur. Sometimes, the contents are of semifluid consistence iiice Honey, and are termed meliceritous; sometimes like pap, atheroma' tous ; sometimes fatty, steatomotous ; sometimes they have a fibrinous appearance ; sometimes, in consequence of the cyst having assumed the mtlamm^atory process, they are of a pimilent character. By persistence sccKUon'^ ^" cutaneous tumour. The interior filled with solid epidemic