PARACENTESIS THORACIS, 974 tlioiigli this part, it is to he roniemhered, when paracentesis is required, is usually displaced downwards very considerably by the accumulation, and is further protected by the patient being directed to inspire during the act of puncture. The space between the fifth and sixth ribs is frequently chosen, midway between the spine and sternum. Some prefer that be- tween the sixth and seventh ; others operate between the seventh and eighth. Some have gone as high as between the fourth and fifth ribs, having observed that natural pointing not unfrcquently takes place there. Of late, the space between the sixth and seventh, or that between the seventh and eighth has been opened, by cautious dissection and the thrust of a small trocar, at the most dependent part—^below the lower angle of the scapula. Upon the whole, puncture between the fifth and eighth ribs upon the right ride, and the sixth and ninth upon the left, midway between the spine and sternum, seems the site most appropriate. The patient having been placed with the side prominent and dependent, and arrangements made for turning him on his face, should oppressed respiration ensue, a small trocar and canula are introduced directly into the thoracic cavity; and the trocar being withdrawn, the fluid flows in a steady stream through the canula ; the utmost care being taken to prevent entrance of air into the pleural cavity. To render this, if possible, more secure, the trocar and canula may be included within a closed bladder emptied of air and containing water, the fundus of which is provided with a stopcock which can be opened in a dependent position below water, when the trocar has been withdrawn from the canula; others employ syringes with valves adapted to a drainage, or stopcock- trocar, by means of which the cavity of the thorax is pumped empty. Enough having been removed, as the canula is withdrawn the greatest care must be taken to avoid the entrance of air; the patient is exhorted to shallow breathing; and the wound is instantly shut up, the puncture being treated so as to secure immediate union. Subsequently, the operation may be repeated, if necessary. Eelief is certain, for the time ; and, in not a few cases, this adaptation of surgery to medicine seems to have been instrumental towards a permanent cure. In the case of empyjema acutely formed, or ensuing upon a wound situated too high to dford an efficient drain to the fluid, a direct opening by incision should be made; and if permanency seem preferable to closure and re-opening, as will usually be the case, this is secured by interposing a bit of lint between the edges of the wound. To favour discharge, the patient remains recumbent on the affected side ; and in some cases where the empytema has gone on for months discharging, and the side has contracted so that the ribs are imbricated over each other, removal of a portion of bone may be required to afi"ord a sufiicieutly free opening for escape of the matter collecting within. Wounds of the Heart These may be inflicted by cutting or pointed weapons, varying much in size, or may result from gunshot injury. They generally prove fatal; but are not necessarily so, either immediately or ultimately, the patient in a few exceptional cases living for days, ^vceks, or even years after the