TREATMENT OF GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 60G ever, an exploratory instrument sliould be wished, a common whalebone probang, terminating in an ivory, olivary extremity, will be found more safe than the common silver gunshot probe. When the foreign body is felt plainly in the track of the wound, it is to be removed at once, by the finger or suitable forceps; the wound being dilated if need be. If superficially lodged beneath the integument, it is to be cut down upon and taken away. But if found deep and firmly impacted, it is well to wait for the suppurative stage ; and during the relaxation of texture which then occm-s, to make the attempt at removal—at a time when the foreign body itself, in obedience to the general law, has begun to seek the surface. In regard to bullets deeply lodged, it ought also to be remem- bered that they may become encysted and quiescent, giving little or no uneasiness, and may remain so for years ; or that, at some future period, they may approach the surface, and ultimately, as it were, invite their own removal. The bullet forceps, in common use before the Crimean war, were the most unserviceable implements ever contrived for any purpose. The best instruments for the extraction of bullets are, when near the siu-face, a pair of stout dressing forceps—or, better, a pair of incisor tooth forceps. These last cut into the lead, and give a purchase upon the ball which even its impaction in bone can- not resist. When balls are lodged beyond reach of the finger they can scarcely be de- tected in the early stage of the wound; and forceps for their removal through the track of the wound at any period are not usually required. In such circumstances, however, a pair of long uterine polypus forceps, or a pair of Tiemann's (of New York) bullet forceps will be found far more serviceable than any others. These last forceps are long and slender in the shanks, and terminate in long teeth set outwards like the in- cisors of a mouse, so that they seize and bite into a leaden ball when only a small portion of its circumference lies exposed to their grasp. When closed, the teeth protect each other; and the instrument passes along much like a probe. They are, of course, of no use in the removal of iron projectiles, or pieces of bone. The bullet scoop with sliding rod, Fig. 207. Tiemann's ball-forceps, described in the text. Fig. 208. Old-fashioned ball-forceps ; in the act of removing the foreign body. Fig. 207. Fig. 20S.