143 TREATMENT OF MORTIFICATION. any other than a small discoloured spot on the end of one of the little toes. It generally makes its first appearance on the inside, or at the ex- tremity of one of the smaller toes, by a small, hlack, or bluish spot: from this spot the cuticle is always found to be detached, and the skin under it to be of a dark red colour. Its progress, in different subjects, and under different circumstances, is different; in some it is slow and long in passing from toe to toe, and from thence to the foot and ankle ; in others its progress is rapid, and horribly painful. It generally begins on the inside of each small toe, before it is visible either on its under or upper part; and when it makes its attack on the foot, the upper part of it first shews its distempered state, by tumefaction, change of colour, and sometimes by vesication ; but, whatever, it is, one of the first marks of it is a separation or detachment of the cuticle." The constitutional symptoms are such as characterize gangrene in general; that is, constitutional irritation, tending towards typhoid col- lapse j but chronic in its nature, like the local afi'ection. The Progress of mortification is sometimes slow ; making but little advance in days and even weeks—as in the senile, and other chronic forms. Sometimes it is fearfully rapid j as in the acute and traumatic ; spreading, within a few hours, over a whole limb. When arrest has occurred, Nature begins her process of separation ; as formerly described. A sthenic inflammatory process is established in the living margin ; suppuration and ulceration supervene there ; and this destructive process is in its turn followed by granulation, and effort towards repair. At the same time, the symptoms of constitutional irrita- tion gradually subside; and a sthenic and normal state of system is restored. Prognosis varies, according to the extent of the mortification, the nature of the part in which it has occiuTed, and the condition of the system during and before its accession. The larger the gangrened part, the greater its importance as a portion of the general economy, and the lower the constitutional powers, the greater is the danger to Hfe. Treatment of Mortification. The treatment of mortification resolves itself into five principal indi- cations. Eemove, or mitigate the cause ; wait for the line of demarca- tion ; assist IS^ature, in her efforts towards detachment; promote and regulate the healing process; and maintain due power of system, throughout invasion, arrest, and cure. But, in the first place, let diagnosis be accurate; be sure that it is a case of gangrene. In mere bruise, there is discoloration of a livid hue ; and dark-coloured serous vesicles form, somewhat resembling phlyctense. But the points of difference, formerly noticed, are sufaciently plain. And it is well that such is the case ; inasmuch as error of diagnosis would in- fallibly lead to serious error of practice. On undoing a fractured limb, for example, after the first application of retentive apparatus, it is not uncommon to find it bwoln, discoloured, and studded by dark vesications. If this be gangrene; amputation, at some distance above the parts so