TREATMENT OF GONORRHGEA. 1137 power. If it do occur, it may be regarded as an untoward event; sure to be followed either by aggravation of the original disorder, or by implication of the prostate, bladder, or testicle, in the inflammatory pro- cess. Strong injection, therefore, is not only not suitable but dangerous, No doubt, it may temporarily arrest the discharge, but only because such exacerbation of the inflammatory process has taken place as checks all secretion; pain, swelling, and redness are greater than before; and discharge soon reappears in increased quantity. The inflammatory crisis having passed over, the sternness of the antiphlogistic treatment is gradually departed from. And certain reme- dies are given, which by experience are found to exert a specific influence on the urethral mucous surface; coj)aiba and cubebs ; the former the more suitable at first; given in cautious doses, lest a deleterious ainount of stimulus be imparted to the membrane. These remedies act on the part; as is shown by experiment. If a patient with fistula in perineo have contracted gonorrhoea, and if the whole urine be permitted to pass through the fistula, no benefit will accrue from any dosing with cubebs or copaiba. But when, by shutting up the abnormal aperture, tem- porarily, the urine is made to pass over the whole urethra, amendment is at once observed. The same efi'ect will also be attained by injecting the anterior part of the canal with the urine passed by the fistula. As the case becomes chronic, antiphlogistics are gradually abandoned. And, for the state of congestion which remains in the membrane, the direct apphcation of gentle stimuli is found useful Pressure liaay be applied, by a compress over the corpus spongiosum ; but this is found irksome and difficult of management. The method of injection is pre- ferable. A vulcanite or glass syringe with a bulbous point, and long narrow nozzle, is employed ; by means of which—inserted fully into the urethra—application of the injected fiuid may be made accurately to the whole diseased surface. Backward extension to the bladder need not be apprehended, as the injection, however forcibly employed, cannot penetrate further than the bulb. The fluid injected is at first weak ; and its strength is gradually increased, according to circumstances. In nothing is there more room for variety. Some use an infusion of green tea, or other vegetable astringent. Sulphate of zinc is perhaps most commonly employed; or the acetate of zinc; or sulphate of copper ; or the salts of iron j or the nitrate of silver ; or alum ; or the chloride of zinc ; or strychnine. A favourite injection is the acetate of zinc, with a proportion of opium. By some, the presence of some powder in a state of fine division, and suspended in a mild mucilaginous or weak astrin- gent and opiate solution, is considered preferable; affording, as it is supposed to do, a coating to the congested and tender surface, and thus keeping the irritated parts from being in actual contact. Acetate of lead and sulphate of zinc mixed together in an opiate solution is the most commonly employed, and is, on the whole, the most serviceable. Bismuth, oxide of zinc, oxide of silver, calamine powder, or carbonate of lead, may be similarly employed, suspended in mucilage, or glycerine and water. Urine is passed before injecting, so that the fluid may act directly upon the membrane ; and with the patient recumbent, the in- jectidn should be managed, by compressing the orifice of the urethra 4 D