1323 DISLOCATION INTO THE ISCHIATIC NOTCH. tlio limb, has been recommended, and has apparently been found very successful. With this proceeding the names of Richard Wiseman, Boulton, Turner, and Anderson* in our own country ; and those of Physic, Nathan Smith senior and junior, among our American brethren, deserve special notice. (c.) By some the following procedure is found satisfactory. I have, on tAvo occasions, resorted to its use with an immediately successful result. Tlie patient, lying upon his back, has his nates brought close to the side of the bed; an assistant fixes the pelvis; and the surgeon, sitting upon the edge of the bed with his back turned to the patient, takes the leg on the aflfected side over his shoulder, and, steadying the foot and leg with both hands, suddenly assumes the upright posture. (d.) It has been proposed to effect reduction by the operator placing liis heel upon the tuber ischii, and making extension with his hands. After reduction, the patient is placed gently in bed; and no reten- tive means are necessary, unless he be careless, or violent — through chloroform, dehrium, or otherwise. Then it is well to secure the two limbs together, by bandaging, at the knees and ankles ; pads being inter- posed at these points. To relieve the uneasiness which exists for some time, hot fomentation should be diligently applied to the part. If, as rarely happens, the upper edge of the acetabulum have been broken, retention is effected with difficulty; and it is necessary to maintain permanent extension of the limb, by means of a long splint with perineal band, as in the case of fracture. IL Dislocation backwards, into the Ischiatic Notch.—In point of frequency, this form may be placed next in order. It may be the primary form of displacement backwards, the head of the bone afterwards reaching the dorsum ilii; in other cases, again, the bone assumes this position, when efforts are made to reduce the dislocation backwards upon the dorsum of the ilium. " The head of the thigh-bone is placed on the pyriformis muscle ; between the edge of the bone which forms the upper part of the ischiatic notch, and the sacro-sciatic ligaments; behind the acetabulum, and a httle above the level of the middle of that cavity." t The accident results from the application of force, while the body is bent forward on the thigh, and the knee is pressed inwards. The signs bear a general resemblance to those of the preceding injury, but occur in a minor degree. Hence the lesion is very liable to be overlooked and mistaken for bruise of the joint. The shortening is from half an inch to an inch. The foot is inverted, and the great toe rests on the ball of the great toe of the opposite foot. The trochanter is behind its usual place, and is slightly inclined towards the acetabulum. The head of the bone can seldom be felt distinctly. The joint is preternaturally fixed ; flexion and rotation, in any considerable degree, being quite impracticable. The * Works of Hippocrates, Sycl. Edit. vol. ii. p. 643 ; Eight Cliii-urgical Treatises, by Richard "Wiseman, London, 1676, book vii. c. viii.; A system of Rational and Practical Surgery, by Richard Boulton, p. 346, London, 1713; The Art of Surgery, by Daniel Turner, London, 1742, vol ii. p. 339; Anderson (of Leith) Med. Commentaries, Edinburgh, 1776, vol. ii. p. 261-4; Physic Dorscy's Surgery, 1813, vi. p. 242; Trans. N. Y. S. Med. Soc. 1854, p. 55 ; Buff. Med. Jour. vol. xiii. p. 515. t A.STLEY CooT'ER on Dislocations.