CHAPTER L. INJUETES OF THE SUPEEIOR EXTREMITY. Feactuees. Fracture of the Clavicle. The clavicle is frequently broken; and usually by violence applied to the acromial extremity, as by falls on the shoulder. The fracture is generally oblique, and near the centre of the bone. The limb is power- less, the part at the seat of fracture is pained and deformed, attempted movement aggravates the pain, and the shoulder is both sunk and drawn towards the sternum. On elevating and depressing the shoulder by moving the elbow, while the hand is placed over the clavicle, crepitus will be experienced. In children, owing to the incompleteness of the separation at the time of injury, and the lightness of the arm, displacement sometimes does not occur for some days; the existence of fracture in such cases is therefore easily overlooked. Displacement is caused by depression of the outer fragment; whereby the sternal portion is made very prominent, causing palpable deformity, and seeming to be out of place, though truly remaining nearly in situ —^the action of the pectoral and sterno-mastoid muscles attached to the rnal fragment nearly neutralizing each other, and any degree of ele- ation being further prevented by the costo-clavicular ligament. The •romial portion is dragged downwards by the weight of the arm; and brwards and inwards by the action of the pectoralis minor and subcla- *us—the attachment of these muscles to the ribs being then the fixed oint. Fracture may also occur at, or external to, the coraco-clavicular gaments. In the former instance, the attachment of the conoid and ipezoid ligaments prevents the separation of the bone at the seat of acture. But in the latter, rotation of the scapula, duo to the M^eight of he arm, still displaces the external fragment so that at the seat of frac- Je it may form a right angle with the sternal one. Fracture at or temal to the costo-clavicular or rhomboid ligament sometimes happens, _t is usually attended by no displacement; there may, however, be a ight projection forwards, as if sub-luxation had occurred. The indications of treatment are plain ; the same in all cases, but un- rtunately not very easily carried into practical effect. They are to ise the acromial portion to the same level with the sternal; to retain there ; and at the same time to keep the shoulder removed from the •mum, so as to prevent displacement inwards of the external portion, any and complicated moans have been devised for this end. The 3 N