SIMPLE ERYSIPELAS. 246 aborted ; tlieir occurrence and ordinary course sometimes seeming to be a natural relief froni more serious impending disorder of the system. Prognosis varies, according to circumstances. The more extensive the erysipelas, the more grave are the constitutional symptoms, and the more serious is the case. If situate on the face, head, trunk, or genitals, it is more dangerous than on the extremities. If constitutional symptoms are both antecedent and concomitant, and of a marked asthenic type, the case is one of danger. In early childhood and advanced age, when the balance of life is very delicate, and easily turned, erysipelas may operate much to the patient's disadvantage, and even terminate fatally. Previous habits of intemperance, atmospheric influence of a sinister kind, and exhaustion by former disease, engender intolerance of erysipelas, even when apparently slight; and cloud the prospect of speedy and satisfac- tory cure. Treatment.—^This must not be abortive or ectrotic ; whether the dis- ease be of local or constitutional origin. If the former, sudden arrest is apt to be followed by speedy appearance of the inflammatory process in another part; it may be in the integument, or it may be in the lining membrane of an important internal cavity. Metastasis occurs, and often unfavourably. If the latter, natural relief to an oppressed system is thwarted; and constitutional disorder is not only not relieved, as it should have been, but becomes perhaps seriously aggravated. Treatment, then, will not consist of direct repellents j but of such local means as favour gradual resolution; invariably accompanied, and if possible pre- ceded, by search for and removal of the apparent cause. In most cases, as abeady stated, the predisposing cause is derange- ment of the prima3 vite. If an emetic be not otherwise contra-indicated, it is an excellent commencement of practice j unloading the stomach, promoting the flow of bile, and usually inducing profuse perspiration from the general surface. It is followed by a purge, usually of a mer- curial kind ; performing the same good ofiice for the bowels which the emetic has done for the stomach. The antiphlogistic regimen is enjoined; and if the constitutional symptoms be sthenic and intlammatory, the sim- pler antiphlogistic remedies may be given—as weak doses, in aqueous solution, of aconite or belladonna; or small doses of antimony with Mindererus' spirit. Soon, however, these will be well superseded by the chalybeate treatment ; and in many cases, indeed, this may be begun almost from* the very first. The tincture of the sesquichloride of iron is given, in full and sustained doses : 20-30 drops every two hours, for an adult; 15-20, for an adolescent j 3 for a child of one month : the dose of course watched, and varied according to the result. At first it may seem to act unpleasantly as a stimulant, causing tightness in the forehead with increase of other feverish sensations ; but these usually disappear with the occurrence of sweating and diuresis. The iron may generally be continued, in greater or less amount, throughout the entire course of the disease, and for some little time afterwards; apparently with the effect of obtaining a more speedy and satisfactory cure than otherwise would have been the case, and to a large extent preventing those troublesome secondary abscesses to which allusion has been made. Indeed, since fully adopting the chaly-