256 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. apartments, perhaps after long and rough carriage, with bad food, mental depression, and insufficient attention to dressing and cleanliness—foul degeneration of sores became not uncommon. And Hospital gangrene came forth in all its virulence ; as the graphic pages of Hennen, Black- adder, and Boggie, sufficiently testify. At present it makes its appearance, occasionally, in the Surgical Hospital of this city; in a slight form. In truth, we believe that few Hospitals grow old without contracting a tendency to the generation of this trouble, more or less; and that no Hospital, unless thoroughly ven- tilated at all times, and thorouglxly cleaned and purified very frequently, can ever expect to remain altogether free from it, more particularly at unhealthy seasons of the year. The disease is an example of Sloughing-phagedjena. It may be pro- duced by direct contact; or, more indirectly, by infection. Or it may occur independently of either; from crowding, evil dressing, bad venti- lation, and otherwise noxious atmospheric influence. Mercurialism is also favourable to its accession. It may attack a wound already existing, or appear in a part previously sound and whole. On an unbroken surface, the first appearance is usually either a pustule or vesicle; small, dark, and accompanied with sharp stinging pain. On giving way of the cuticle, a slough is formed, and this con- tinues to extend in both surface and depth. After a time, the slough begins to separate but without arrest of destruction in the part; this being contmued by acute phagedasna, often "svith greater and more unre- mitting pain than before. Then sloughing appears. And so the work of local death advances ; invariably accompanied with profuse, foetid, and thin discharge. Sometimes the progress is so rapid, as to cover a large space within a few hours ; in other cases, the advance is reckoned more conveniently by days. The ulcerous cavity is generally of a circular form; as if scooped out by an instrument. The edges are jagged, everted, and well defined; often studded with red points of a pecuhar appearance. The lymphatic glands are apt to become affected, at an early period; they enlarge, suppurate, and open ; and the ulcer is prone to assume the same condition as the original sore. The surroxmding parts are swoln, red, tense, painful, and of a dark livid hue. And tliia inflammatory process is apt not to remain limited, as a mere antecedent to local death ; but to spread, adding the serious complication of erysi- pelas to the original malady. Thus hospital-erysipelas and hospital-sore may be found to co-exist. "When a wound is attacked—as is most frequently the mode of accession—pain becomes very acute—the patient complaining as if stung there by an insect. Discharge is diminished; or may be, for a time, altogether arrested. Then the granulating surface rapidly changes, assuming a dirty white colour; and sometimes becoming spongily elevated and crepitant, by air, the product of putrescence. The sur- rounding skin swells, and is of a purplish hue. Slough forms, eitlier in one continuous mass, or in detached portions. The dead matter begins to separate, but not by a healthy process; the edges harden, become everted, remain of a dirty wMte appearance, and pour out much foetid discharge—very diff'erent from the healthy pus which escaped but n few