534 MODE OF UNION. It is obviously of much importance that such examination should be made at as early a period as possible; before reaction has taken place, and spastic rigidity of the implicated muscles has set in, which Avill cer- tainly oppose to some extent the requii-ed extension and coaptation (if antesthesia be not employed); and before concealment of the relative position of parts has taken place, either by extravasation of blood, or by accumulation of the products of the inflammatory process. The Prognosis varies, 1, according to the age of the patient. In the young the process of reparation is usually both more rapid and efficient than in advanced years; also the general health is less liable to suffer from serious complication, and from the confinement which treatment may require. 2. According to the situation of the injury. Fracture of a long bone, near its middle, is less important than a similar injury which implicates the articulating end. Fracture of a slight and super- ficial bone, as the clavicle, is less hkely to prove troublesome than similar injury of one which is large and thickly covered, as the femur. Fracture of the neck of the femur, within the capsular ligament, is but little capable of satisfactory union ; while a more severe amount of injury, immediately exterior, through the trochanters, unites readily. Fracture of the scapula is seldom troublesome, either at the time oj" subsequently; fracture of the bones in two parts of a limb constitutes a very serious form of injury, as recovery without deformity is almost impossible; frac- tures of the cranium, pelvis, and spine, are invariably fraught with danger, not fr'om the injury done to the bone, but on account of the important parts contained within, which are Hkewise concerned in the injury. 3. According to the nature of the fracture and the degree of displacement. The Compound is obviously more hazardous than the Simple; the Com- minuted, and the Fracture with Wound, or otherwise complicated, are more likely to prove troublesome than the fracture which is in all respects Simple. A fracture which is transverse and unaccompanied by displacement, is the simplest of all. Where the fracture is very obhque, and there is any great degree of displacement, the fi-agments can scarcely be so thoroughly kept reduced by treatment, however ably conducted, as to restore the parts to their original symmetry. 4. According to the state of system. The patient in ordinary health is more Hkely to advance favourably, than one who is either debilitated by privation or disease, or plethoric and prone to undue excitement. Also the patient aflfccted by any constitutional vice, which favours the occurrence of fracture, is obvi- ously situated unfavourably as to cure. It will be often found stated, on hardly sufficient grounds, that the pregnant female has a slower union of fracture than would otherwise happen; it having been supposed, theoretically, that the nutritive powers of the system are almost wholly devoted to the exalted uterine function. The mode of union, or reparative process, is a subject of much im- portance ; on the right understanding of which the indications of treat- ment depend. It is found to differ, 1, according as it occurs in the lower animals, under experiment; 2, according as it occurs in man, with the bones not fairly adjusted and retained; 3, according as it occurs in man, with the fragments accurately arranged and kept immobile. I" the first of these conditions—following the observations of Dupuytrcn—