1184 CONSTITUTIONAL TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS. tinction which we have drawn between the indurated chancre and all other sores upon the genitals, else a constant confusion will be produced in reconciling our statements with the accounts of the older authors or even with the writings upon this subject of no more distant date than thirty years ago. Till within comparatively a recent period, mercury was considered a specific—indispensable as well as infallible—for the venereal disease in all its forms. We have seen that in the non-specific diseases —gonorrhoea, and its consequences—warts, herpes eczema—and in the soft non-infecting chancre—not only is mercury useless, but even inju- rious, both to the constitution and to the local disease. But, excluding these affections, its influence upon the syphilitic diathesis has been very variously estimated. By the old school of practitioners, it was be- lieved that mercury possessed a specific and antagonistic influence upon the virus ; that the two poisons meeting in the circulation, the mercury, if only of sufficient quantity, exercised a destructive influence on its antagonist. These authors were of opinion that their favourite mineral acted in one of two ways. 1. That it united with the poison chemi- cally, and decomposed it. 2. That it carried it out of the constitution by evacuation. "With such a theoretical explanation of its action, it is obvious that the influence of the remedy would be entirely in proportion to the quantity given of the mineral. Mercury accordingly was pushed in practice to profuse salivation; either in the belief that such was necessary for satisfactory elimination, or because this was regarded as the only sure sign that the mineral had been sufficiently introduced into the system, to exert its chemical action upon the poison concealed in the tissues of the body. The effects of the mercury were therefore measured, not by the disappearance or improvement in the manifest symptoms, but by the number of pounds of saliva which were spat in twenty-four hours; while this state of poisoning was to be continued for " about six and thirty days," and " a small dose of mercury must after this be continued for six and thirty days more, to keep up a gentle salivation." Young gen- tlemen, in such circumstances, could not undergo treatment at home ; and houses for the purpose were therefore provided, where the mercurial courses might be duly performed; and where the patients might remaiu until so far restored as to be fit to return to their business and homes. In hospitals, agaia, the "foul wards" might well receive their name. The stench and filth of such resorts of poverty and wretchedness, where many patients, all salivated, with loose teeth, swoln and ulcerated tongues, and an insupportably foetid breath, were crowded together, and where inunction, inhalation, and mercurial vapour baths, were being constantly carried on, may be better imagined than described. It need be no won- der that patients died suddenly after undergoing such treatment (?) It need be no wonder that constitutions were ruined, and cachexia iuduced. It need be no wonder that our graveyards are rich in specimens of bones, such as no collector of the present day can obtain in any dissecting room. It need be no wonder that such a reign of mercury was in all respects most disastrous. Nov can it be a matter of surprise, that many jjreferred death to such a mode of cure. The wonder is, that Ulric de Hutten, after eleven such salivations, was left with sufficient bodily and mental activity to become the zealous apostle of an anti-mercurial treatment.