TREATMENT OF FRACTURE. 641' Mnliod to-day, the limb may have shrunk by to-morrow, so that the Mavatxis has ceased to be retentive. But when the time for inflamma- toij swelling lias gone by, and when further decrease of the more or 1,>>^ swohi limb is improbable—then the permanent, fixed, and unyield- ia-- nature of the application ceases to be detrimental, and becomes most saUitary. If used sooner—and by many it is now used in most cases of simple fracture of the limbs from the very first—it ought not to be in- mass, but after bisection; so that the apparatus then comes to resemble t^vo neatly and closely fitting splints of the ordinary kind. And in ,M\ler still further to obviate the chance of strangulation, the splinted liiab may be incased in a sleeve or stocking of elastic material, instead nf the ordinary bandaging. An equally immovable and tight fitting " case" may be made for the fractured limb, by imbedding the whole in plaster of Paris ; or In- filling the interstices of a flannel bandage, as it is applied, with the gypsum powder, which is afterwards moistened with water, and the limb kept steady till the plaster has "set." But such a dressing though ry easily effected, and very certain in action as regards due retention ^ I the fragments, is not always safe as regards the risk of inflammatory accident; and if not cold, is as least comfortless. But further still, when required to be removed, it becomes not only an arduous task to the surgeon, but sometimes a painful one to the patient. In the case of an obstinately " rising end" of a bone, it may come [ • be a question whether or not pressure should be employed, as by com- press and bandaging, to force it into normal position. In general this [uestion is to be answered in the negative. The pressure, unless very -■vere, is not likely to succeed ; even when severe it may fail; and it is ipt to occasion ulceration or sloughiug of the integuments, or abscess more deeply seated—events all most unfavourable to the process of cure. It is better, by attention to position, to relax the muscles which are caus- ing displacement; and to bring the other fragment higher in its level, until a smooth and continuous adjustment shall have been thus attained. ^[ost certainly, when the rising of the end is only apparent, and not real, ia the case of the clavicle, nothing can be more unwarrantable than application of pressure to the part which is in truth not displaced. In such circumstances, however, Malgaigne has recommended the em- nloyment of sharp needle points, which, attached to the splint behind by I metal arc, can be screwed down through the superimposed soft parts, ' as to force back the rising end of the bone and retain it in its normal ~<ition. According to those who have resorted to this method, the f;dles cause no pain or inflammatory irritation, and never occasion ppuration. Occasionally it is found very difficult, notwithstanding every care, keep the bones in apposition; muscular action being constantly at lit. Under such circumstances, it has been proposed, and not un- •wonably, to have recourse to tenotomy. For example, in fractures ■t the leg, which may not otherwise be kept duly arranged, subcuta- ■ ' oug division of the tendo Achillis may be practised; with immediate ''I decided advantage as regards the fracture, and with impimity as ;'Wfls any ulterior rosult.