CHAPTEE XXXIV. AFrECTIONS OF THE N"OSE. "ifounds of the nose, dividing the ala, and penetrating into the nasal Mvity, however produced—whether by accident or in the performance of peratious, or as a punishment, according to the custom of some half- ivihsed nations—heal perfectly ; and, if the edges of the wound have en brought into accurate apposition by means of sutures, with but little I any scar. Should such wounds have been permitted to cicatrize with- it apposition, so that a sht remains, the margins of the cleft should be iiioyed with the bistoury, and sutures introduced to bring the edges !i contact. When the nose has been detached from surrounding parts \cept by a narrow neck of sound texture, it usually retains its vitahty, md will adhere if suitably treated. It is scarcely necessary to refute he fabulous accounts which once obtained credit, of noses bitten off or )tberwise completely severed, being capable of uniting if placed in care- iil contact Avith the bleeding surface from which they had been removed. Fracture of the Nasal Bones. Eracture of the nasal bones is always the result of external violence, lirectly applied. The injury may be either simple or comminuted; and he latter form is of frequent occurrence. It may also be either simple T compound; and the latter form may be constituted by wound of the II tegument, or by laceration of the mucous membrane, or by a combi- i ition of both conditions. There may be no deformity present, the nes resuming spontaneously their normal position. When, however, lisplacement remains, then deformity is the prominent feature of the iijury. When comminution exists, the slightest manipulation suffices detect crepitus ; but this is frequently simulated and accompanied by he emphysematous crepitation of the areolar tissue of the cheeks and yelids, which is usually produced by the efforts of the patient to blow IS nose, when the blood comes trickling down the nostril from the derated mucous membrane. There is always more or less swelling and -coloration, wliich may obscure the displacement of the bones. When 13 is the case, careful manipulation should be employed to determine 10 existence of the fracture. Pteplacement is easily effected, by passing the closed blades of a pair ^ small dressing forceps, or the ordinary polypus-forceps, or a director, "lale catlieter, or such like instrument, into the upper part of the ' 'stril, 80 that the broken bones may be forcibly elevated to their normal ■ el, at the same time modelling the fragments into their proper place