SECONDAEY HEMORRHAGE. 228 large, pressure will probably suffice. If not, then the vessel may be exposed, by direct incision, at the bleeding point; and a ligature placed above and below the aperture. Should the attempt to secure the distal portion of tlie vessel fail, the cardiac ligature, with exact and moderate pressure on the wound, may be alone trusted to ; and in all probabihty it will prove successful. If the sloughing be general and the vessel large— and if from any cause it cannot be tied at the bleeding point—then the main artery leading to the seat of hemorrhage may be secured, by inci- sion on the cardiac aspect, as the only means in our power of control- ling the bleeding. 3. Or an artery which has been secured by pressure and natural hemostatics, at the time of injury, bleeds within a few days ; and there is neither ulceration nor sloughing in the wound. This is found filled with coagulum ; and is lined with a fibrinous inflammatory product. In such circumstances, the wound is dilated by direct incision ; and, the bleeding point having been exposed, the vessel is secured by ligature; this being double—above and below the bleeding point—in all cases where the artery may bleed again from the distal side. Sometimes de- tection of the vessel is facilitated, in a deep wound, by the circumstance of its orifice being surrounded by a greenish-yellow discoloration. 4. Or a vessel, which at the time of injury was tied, bleeds in con- sequence of ulceration of an asthenic kind, at the time of the ligature's separation ; as after deligation on account of aneurism. In this case, some considerable time usually has elapsed ; eight, ten, or twenty days. The parts implicated have become infiltrated, and are changed both in structure and in relative position. Besides they may be the seat of asthenic ulceration ; and, for the time, incapable of healthy efforts of repair. In such circumstances, detection and isolation of the bleeding orifice will be difficult; but when found, although the prospect of obhterative changes by deligation may not be promising (theoretically), experience has proved that the vessel may bear the ligature, and that a repetition of the hemorrhage when it separates is by no means inevitable. Notwith- standing, instead of a direct ligature, it is still very generally considered better to tie the main artery, at some distance, on the cardiac side ; main- taining exact, continuous, and moderate pressure on the original wound. . In resorting to this plan of treatment, however, the surgeon should make • sure that the bleeding reaUy comes from the vessel on the cardiac aspect ; of the ligature ; for in many cases it has been found that the bleeding is i due to regurgitant hemorrhage from the distal portion of the vessel. Jn i any case, the general means suitable for the restraint of secondary hemor- rhage are not to be neglected. Of late, there has been a good deal of discussion as to the proper treatment of secondary hemorrhage after arterial wound. But the sound practical conclusion seems to be this. It is always desirable to tie the. vessel above and below the bleeding point, by direct incision ; and that should always be done when practicable. But when, from any cause, direct deligation has been rendered imiDracticable, inexpedient, or both, then cardiac deligation may be resorted to, as in the case of aneurism—• the point of deligation being always, if the bleeding comes from the proximal end, as near as possible to the site of bleeding—with pressure