108 SIMPLE CYSTS. the mucous or selDaceous; 3, hy enlargement of the interspaces of primary connective tissue, with strengthening and condensation of the walls. 1. The Simple Cysts j with fluid contents. Of these the most com- mon are the foUowinfr:— 1. The Serous.—The cyst usually consists of condensed fibrous tissue, lined with a tesselated epithelium ; the contents are serous, more or less normal in character. The formation may be single, or in num- bers ; the site anywhere; but specially in or near glands, and in the subcutaneous tissue of the neck—there sometimes termed " Hydrocele." When tense they may simulate soHd tumours ; generally, however, fluc- tuation is distinct; and the absence of all inflammatory accompaniments sufficiently distinguishes from abscess. The most ordinary treatment is by tapping and injection of iodine, as in the case of hydrocele of the tunica vaginahs. Sometimes, instead of injection, it is enough to puncture and break up the cyst by the point of a knife or needle. Sometimes, as in the eyelids, it may be well to use lunar caustic lightly to the interior after incision. 'V\Tien the cysts congregate in clusters, as in connection with the mamma, it may be neces- sary to dissect out the whole mass, including the gland. 2. Sanguineous Cysts difi'er from the preceding mainly as to their contents. These are blood, or bloody serum, and hence have been called " Hsematoceles." They are most common in the subcutaneous tissue of the neck and trunk ; and are best treated by incision—turning out the contents, and ensuring destructive suppuration of the cyst, with or with- out the use of caustic. If there happen to be a connection with erectile tissue, care must be taken lest hemorrhage ensue, either at the time of incision, or subsequently. 3. Mucous Cysts "are commonly derived either from cystic disease of the so-called mucous glands, or from dilatation of obstructed ducts or reservoirs" (Paget). The contents are of mucous character, pure or mixed. Treatment is as for the preceding ; making very sure of the cysts' destruction. 4. Synovial Cysts, adventitious formations in connection with joints and bursse (anywhere that undue pressure comes to be applied) are pro- bably due to the third mode of origin formerly noticed—an isolated hypertrophy in the connective tissue. They may inflame and suppurate; so working out their own cure. Or, in the quiet state, they may be made to disappear gradually under iodine or other discutients—removal of the cause (inordinate pressure) being of course not neglected. Or they may be punctured, emptied, and injected with iodine; or, after punc- ture, the contents may be squeezed into the surrounding areolar tissue,— a blister being afterwards appHed, if necessary, to expedite absorption. II. The Proliferous Cysts, of various contents, arc a more impor- tant class. We shall speak of three varieties—the Cystigerous, Cutane- ous, and Sarcomatous. 1. The Cystigerous—most frequently exemplified in tlie ovary. From the wall of the primary cyst, other cysts form, of various size and thickness, and with fluid contents sometimes glairy and clear, sometimes dark-coloured and turbid through admixture Avith pus or blootL Growth