1088 LITHOTRIPSY. as adapted to its use. The iudiscriniinate employment of the operation however, has been fully established as somewhat more fatal than the in' discriminate performance of Lithotomy. The cases favourable to Lithotripsy are of the following character: The urethra must be free from stricture; the prostate must not be large • the bladder must be comparatively free from irritability, not mucli dimi- nisbcd in capacity, and not sacculated; the kidneys must be organically sound. Otherwise, tlie instruments will not have room for safe and efficient play; the risk of cystitis will be great; aggravation of renal disease will be certain ; and fragments, being received into sacculi, will be placed temporarily beyond the reach of treatment, and will enlarge into fresh, calculi. The stone itself must be of no great size, and of no great toughness. The mulberry calculus is usually dense and firm enough to resist all the pressure which may be exerted safely; stones of large size—say of uric formation—are obviously not amenable to the grasp of tlie instrument; and, even if they were, the number of rough fragments, and the many seizures which would be required for their pulverization, would obviously tend to serious mischief in the bladder. Further, it were well that no great amount of viscid mucus were secreted from the bladder; for this, entangling part of the debris, is likely to retain more than one nucleus for tlie reproduction of stone. Such are the cases favourable for Lithotripsy j when the urethra and kidneys are organically sound, and the bladder and prostate are but little altered; the stone small and soft ; the system not irritable. At one time it was supposed that the operation should be limited to adults ; the parts of the child being too limited for free and safe use of the instruinents. Ex- perience has proved, however, that such objection does not hold good; and that with suitable instruments, carefully and skilfully used. Litho- tripsy is quite as apphcable to the adolescent as to the adult. Even in the favourable cases, Lithotripsy is not without its risks and disadvantages. In the hands of the most expert, the stone is not ahrays readily and at once caught; and perquisition may consequently be tedious and hurtful. The fragments must irritate the bladder more or less ; en- tailing at least some of the hazard which attends on spontaneous disrup- tion. Fragments passing by the urethra create much u-ritation there, and may induce serious inflammatory disease, extending to the bladder; or a fragment may be arrested in its outward passage, and cause perilous retention of urine. Small portions may remain behind, eluding the sound, and becoming sure nuclei for reproduction—loose in the bladder, entangled in adherent mucus, embraced by a fold of membrane, or em- bayed in a sacculated cavity. One operation is seldom sufficient; repe- tition is necessary, perhaps once and again; and, under tliis, serious constitutional disorder may arise, prominently connected with renal disease. It has been well remarked by Dr. Willis, that even the successful cases may present the following degenerate class of symptoms. Although the stone is gone, " the man is not quite well; irritability of bladder to a greater or less degree remains behind; this irritability increases; the constant services of the medical attendant again become necessary. The patient is next tormented with ceaseless pain in the region of the bladder, which by and by extends up the loins, and settles in the back. The