232 HEMORRHAGIC DIATHESIS. lating systems, every precaution will be adopted to prevent solution of continuity in any way—by wound, tear, or ulcer; more especially during early years. And at tlie same time, treatment will be adopted to oppose the diathesis and accomplish its removal. It resembles scrofula ; and tonics, such as used in tliat disease, will be of service; patiently perse- vered with. It also resembles scurvy ; citric acid is all-powerful in the one morbid state; it is likely not to be without its good effect in the other. Occasional, smart, purgative doses of sulphate of soda may prove beneficial, in two ways; as purgative and hydragogue, diminisliing the amount of serum in the blood ; as a chemical salt, seeming to have the efifect of increasing the blood's power of firm coagulation. In the crisis—wound and hemorrhage having occurred—our atten- tion will be directed to the fulfilling of two indications. 1. We endea- vour to increase the blood's power of coagulation; more especially its power of forming a dense coagulum. If possible, we would increase the proportion of fibrin. The rapid induction of an inflammatory process might effect this ; and the attempt has been made, but with indifferent success. In truth there is no time for such remedies of remote action; and therefore we must content ourselves with those which make the most of the blood such as it is. Acetate of lead and opium favour coagulation, and calm the circula- tion ; they are to be administered in full and sustained doses. The opium, besides, is supposed to have a tonic and astringent effect on the capillaries ; and is specially useful, as formerly stated, in sustaining Hfe under depression from loss of blood. Should these medicines be found to disagree, they may be superseded by the sulphate of alum and potass, in doses of fifteen or twenty grains ; or by gallic acid in doses of twelve grains frequently repeated; or by matico in infusion, or by turpentine as the stomach will bear. Hydragogues, by diminishing the amount of serum in the blood, may contribute to its coagulability. Sulphate of soda, in purgative doses, may not only act in this way; but besides, as already stated, it seems chemically to favour the formation of a dense and firm coagulum. For chemical reasons, however, the sulphate of soda cannot be given in con- junction with the acetate of lead. At first, we would give nothing in the shape of food or drink. But should our first effort fail, and the bleeding continue, as is not impro- bable, we would then administer nutritious yet non-stimulant food, in small quantities and frequently; as soup, animal jelly, etc. Avoiding aqueous fiuids ; plethora of thin blood being far from advantageous. Avoiding also wine, brandy, and all other stimuli, which are adverse to hemostatics—unless when driven to their use, at the eleventh hour, and almost in despair. In conducting the treatment, one circumstance should never be for- gotten ; namely, that the chance of success diminishes with the duration of the bleeding ; and that, therefore, the first few hours should be occu- pied by an especially zealous and sustained employment of the requisite means. After excessive loss of blood, the remainder of that fluid, ori- ginally poor in fibrin, becomes almost wholly defibrinized ; and conse- quently but little hope of arrest by firm coagulation can then be enter-