619 FKACTURES OF THE CRANIUM. The mischief may extend inwardly, and dura-matral abscess form, previously stated ; but, fortunately, such is by no means the invariable o.ult; and" is indeed little likely to take place, if suitable treatment uivo been adopted. If plilebitis occur in the diploe, the case becomes eminently seri- . ; partly on account of the direct effects of this disease giving rise, ,< it may, to intracranial suppuration; but mainly from the risk of luia. After injuries of the head, metastatic abscesses of the lungs, liver, • His cavities, joints, or areolar tissues frequently occur; and it is pro- ile that at least many of these cases are connected with phlebitis, or vith thrombosis of the veins, in the diploe. Fractures of the Cranium. In the child, much violence may be sustained by the cranium with mpuiiity. The osseous tissue is then elastic ; it yields to the force, and s temporarily depressed, but without solution of its continuity ; and iter a time, the depression is gradually effaced by a vital resilience, in- lependent of external aid. In the adult, and more especially the aged, he bone is of a much more brittle nature ; and while less force succeeds II effecting solution of continuity, more or less extensive, no instance i depression of the skuU has ever been known to exist without the ccim-ence of fracture. The skull may be merely fissured; or the injured part is broken into ^ments, implicating the whole thickness of the bone, with or VTithout session of these ; or the external table alone is broken; or the in- ual table exclusively suffers ; or both are penetrated by a sharp-pointed Lcipon, the internal sustaining the greater amount of injury. The frac- ;ire may be at any part of the periphery of the vault of the cranium, or nay traverse its base ; and, further, it maybe either simple or compound. Vli these forms of injury vary much in their effects ; in themselves, vever, they would be of little moment were it not for the important :'ts contained within, which must always sustain more or less injury ng with the bony case in which they are enclosed. The dangers attendant on the injury are various. 1, By concussion. '■ By extravasation of blood within the cranium. 3. By excessive -cape of blood externally from the wound. 4. By displacement of the Pictured poi-tions inwards, causing compression. 5. By inflammatory ';ce.ss, occurring in either the brain or its membranes. The treatment will comprise various indications calculated to oppose liose several results. Fractures of the cranium, whether simple or compound, unite only by I'jfinitive callus. In some cases, even long after the fracture, no union "■ hatever has occurred; and this is probably due to the absence of the •rovisional callus; a wise law of exclusion, however, seeing that were ^•h callus present in quantity, it could not fail seriously to interfere ■>'h the functions of the brain. Sometimes, however, a marginal for- ^ ition of new osseous matter along the line of fracture upon the inside the skull has been observed; and where the line of fracture has passed