809 PHARYNGEAL ABSCESS. all such risk can easily, however, bo avoided by laying the infant in the prono position over the nurse's Icnee, so soon as the incision has been made. If opening be delayed, not only are risk and inconvenience great by the largo size of the tumour; there is also the same danger from sudden spontaneous discharge, as in abscess of the tonsil; besides, the soft parts may become extensively undermined by burrowing of the matter; and, in the ultimate cicatrization of a largo cavity, contraction and stricture of the pharynx may residt. When abscess forms lower down, the situation is usually either at the upper part of the oesophagus, or immediately above the diaphragm; these being the situations where spicular foreign bodies are most apt to lodge, and, by puncture of the mucous membrane, to set up suppiu'ation in the parts around. In the former situation, more or less diffuse swelling of the neck will usually indicate what is taking place, while rigors generally accompany the formation of matter. In some instances the abscess opens into the oesophagus or pharynx—as is indicated by a copious discharge of pus tinged with blood. In other cases it burrows along the pharynx and oesophagus beneath the deep fescia of the neck, and unless evacuated, may give rise to very serious results by undermining the trachea, oesophagus, and the blood-vessels; or it may even extend into the mediastinum. Sometimes, again, it points acutely towards the surface; or, after a long period of suffer- ing and hectic, openings may form in different parts of the surface of the neck, and a communication become established between the pharynx or oesophagus and the cutaneous surface—constituting a fistula. Whenever, by local or constitutional symptoms, we apprehend that an abscess is forming in this situation, especially if it be due to the lodg- ment of a foreign body, we should not wait tiU the abscess points, but establish for it a free opening towards the surface. This, according to its situation, may be made either behind or in front of the great vessels. In the former case, an incision should be made upon the anterior aspect of the transverse processes and bodies of the vertebrse, from behind the margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle; after opening the deep fascia, the finger is used to push the vessels forwards out of the way; and then the collection of matter is safely reached. In the latter case, an incision should be made along the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid, as for CEsophagotomy or Hgature of the carotid; and after dividing the sterno- hyoid and thyroid muscles, the finger is again used as a guide in com- pleting the evacuating wound. When, again, the abscess in connection with the oesophagus forms in the posterior mediastinum, it may evacuate itseff into the canal; this, however, will in all probability only afford temporary relief, as each act of deglutition is likely to be attended by the escape of some portion of the fluid or solid food into the sac. This ■will bo followed by putrescence, further extension of the abscess, the occurrence of pleurisy, or even of a localized pneumonia in the neigh- bourhood of the abscess, and the supervention of pyaemia. In some few cases the abscess has made its way to the surface, and effected its evacu- ation by the side of the sternum, between the lower costal cartilages. Such cases rarely admit of any operative interference. Could we be ab- solutely certain of the existence of such communication between the abscess and the ccsophagus, the risk of extravasation of articles of food