1194 TREATMENT BY DECOCTIONS OF WOODS. and anything which depresses the system, debilitates the patient, destroys his sleep and takes away his appetite, should be avoided. But at the same time a general regulation of his life, simplicity in diet, abstinence from stimulants, and attention to the functions of the skin and bowels, with fresh air and such adjuncts as tend to keep up the spirits, and are calculated to prevent him from brooding over the condition of his health, may be regarded as essential to his satisfactory recovery. Tonics such as quinine, iron, and cod-liver oil, will frequently be resorted to, either singly or in combination with other drugs and remedial measures already mentioned. Zinc and arsenic may occasionally, though more rarely, exercise a beneficial influence upon the general health. Vegetable Decoctions.—" Decoctions of the woods," so long ago as the sixteenth century, were introduced into this country as remedies for syphilis, and said to be attended by quite as great success as mercury, both as preventive and curative agents. The anti-syphilitic woods in common use were sarzaparilla, sassafras, guaiacum, and mezereon. In addition to these, the saponaria rumex, stillingia, dulcamara, conium, podophyllum, and various other vegetable substances, have since acquired a more or less extended fame as possessed of anti-syphihtic virtues. The sarzaparilla, however, deserves most notice; as being still exten- sively employed both in this country and on the continent in the treat- ment of syphilis, and forming no unimportant part of the Zittman's decoction, and Lisbon diet drink (Decoc. Sarzae. Comp.)* The activity of this drug is, however, at best doubtful; at least in the form in which we meet with it in this country. Dr. Hancock, while he represents the sarza in the European market as practically useless, speaks of the Rio Negro sarzaparilla as affording an infusion which is emetic in large doses, while in less quantity it produces nausea, sweating, prostration, and torpor ; and he asserts that, when taken regularlj'-, it acts as a restorative and aphrodisiac, causing constitutional sores to heal, the body to become plump, the skin smooth, and the patient active. In Guiana it is regarded as a sovereign remedy for a species of strumous ulcer, and in all venereal complaints. In this city, it is looked upon in the light of a mere placebo; while in London and Dublin it is highly esteemed. Mr. Lawence, for example, has a very high opinion of it in cases of phagedsenic sores. The determination of its practical utiHty would be a matter of no small importance ; as in one London hospital some years ago the annual expenditure for this item alone amounted to £1500. * Zittman's decoction is of two kinds—the stronger and the weaker. The former is made as follows :—Kad. Sarzaparillae, § xii. ; Aquae, lb. xxiv. ; m. coque per horas dnas et adde Aluminis, §iss. ; Hydrarg. Chloridi, §ss. ; Antimonii Oxy. Sulphureti, 31. ; m. coque ad |, et adde Fol. Sennae, giii. ; Ead. GlycjTrhizae, §iss. ; Sem. anisi, §ss. ; Infunde per horam et cola. Sig.—HaK-a-pint to a pint morning and evening. The weaker decoction is made as follows :—Capiat residuum decocti fortioris et adde Radicis Sarzaparillae, § ii. ; Aquae, lbs. xxiv. ; Coque per horas duas et adde Cort. Canellae, Cort. Limonum, Sem. Cardamom! aa, 3 iii > infunde per horam et cola. Sig.—A pint at intervals during the day. | Lisbon Diet Drink.—^ Decoc. Sarzae, 9iv. ; Lign. Sarzapar. concisi, Ligni Guaiaci versati, GlycyrrhizaJ contusas aa, 3x. ; Cort. Kad. Mezerei, 3iv.; m. coque per partem horae quartam. Sig.—One to two wine glassfuls for a dose.