370 RULES FOR RESECTION. ing to the method practised for their excision, the success of the opera- tion is greatly dependent upon tlie occurrence of this result. "When suppuration becomes fairly established, and tlireatens to prove excessive means may be taken for its abatement. Then, the reparative stage hav- ing fairly commenced, by occasional passive motion the construction of ; a false joint is favoured : experience having shewn that motion, duly ■ employed, is not only capable of inducing the formation of a very usefiU hinge—at first flexible and weak, but gradually becoming firmer and of i greater power—but also, if a sufficiency of diseased bone has been i removed, and the patient is healthy, that there is no risk of re- • inducing disease, by inflammatory accession and its results. In the case < of the knee-joint, however, when anchylosis is desired, as obviously mr consistent with usefulness of the limb, from the very first our treatment by means of appropriate splints and apparatus is adapted to secure as complete immobility as possible. Mr. Syme, to whom the profession is much indebted for his success- - i ful exertions in this department of operative surgery, thus describes the; | condition of the limb, when a fortunate issue has ensued :—" It has been j proved by numerous facts, that while the joints beyond the disease remain 'j as useful as ever, the one which has undergone the operation regains such I a degree of mobility and subjection to the action of its muscles, as some- times to render it hardly distinguishable from a sound one, and in general >, prevents it from at all impeding the use of the arm by its stiff'ue?'!, ' There is no new joint, strictly speaking, formed; but a strong fibrt substance unites the extremities of the bones, and by its flexibihty alloAv- them to move within proper bounds; while the muscles cut across in the operation obtain new attachments, so as to perform their usual office." In determining on the operation of resection, it should invariably ; well considered whether there be a fair prospect of an issue in al respects prosperous ; and but little chance of amputation being ultimate demanded, by re-induction of the disease, probably of an aggravated ai acute form. Otherwise, it were better at once to have recourse to ti latter operation. A worn system, originally by no means strong, ma have power enough to bear up under either resection or amputation ; aiv yet may be certain to give way under a combination of the two. 1. Tli patient's age is an important point. For resection, he should be neitht very young nor very old. If very young, the section of the bone mad through the end of the shaft effects removal of the epiphysis, thi precluding to a great extent the further growth of the limb, and det> mining, especially in the lower extremity, its ultimate uselessn(- Besides, scrofula is likely to be much concerned in the disease- not of a quiet but of an acute kind, and as it were restlessly acti^ In the old, there may be want of restorative energy in the wouii The most favourable cases are those which occur during adolescent ' when the elasticity and vigour of youth are on our side; and wlu- consequently, special success may be expected. 2. The system slioii not be much exhausted; otherwise re-induction of disease is favoun by want of power both locally and generally. Besides, it n happen that suppuration in the wound proves excessive, uuaccoi panied by efficient effort at repair; and, in consequence, removal