1157 BUBO. 1. The Sympathetic Buho, or simple inflammatory affection of the glands which lie in connection with the part undergoing the inflammatory or ulcerative disease. This occurs in cases of acute gonorrhoea; and may also be excited by the soft or even the indurated chancre, acting as a simple source of lymphatic ii-ritation—especially when the parts are stimulated through exercise, debauchery in drink, or other folly of the patient. In some rare cases of gonorrhoea, it commences even before the discharge from the urethra has as yet set in. In such cases, where a previous painful experience has taught the patient, who has exposed himself to the risk of incurring such a consequence, what he may expect, he wiU frequently seek advice when as yet nothing but redness of the urethral orifice, and glandular swelling and tenderness exist, to indicate what is about to ensue. The swelling and tenderness at first are confined to the gland or glands, and, should resolution ensue, affect nothing else; but if suppuration occur, extension takes place to the surrounding parts, matting the glands together into an irregular mass, which occupies the fold of the groin along the line of Poiipart's ligament. When the abscess is evacuated, the pus that escapes has no virulent qualities, and gives no results on experimental inoculation; nor do the edges of the incision become chancrous ; nor is healing delayed if the opening is free, and if no sinus, by too long delay in affording an opening, has formed in surrounding parts. 2. jTJie Specific or Virulent Bubo may occur upon one or both sides of the trunk, according to the situation of the sore, and engages one or more sets of lymphatic vessels. It is due to absorption of the chancrous matter, from the surface of the soft chancre. The matter is conveyed by the lymphatic vessels, and deposited in the first gland in the neighbour- ing lymphatic chain. Here, and sometimes in the lymphatic vessels which communicate between the sore and the affected gland, suppuration is established ; and, whatever treatment may be employed, the inevitable result is the formation of an acute intra-glandular abscess, which, making its way through the capsule, either spontaneously opens after undermin ing the superimposed integument, or is evacuated by incision. In the former instance, several openings usually form, and sinuses are apt to burrow among surrounding parts. In all circumstances, the matter within the gland is chancrous in its properties, and will produce specific results upon inoculation, either in the patient himself, or in any one else. The edges of the opening, accordingly, which is made to evacuate this abscess, become inoculated, and the gaping aperture in the groin becomes a large soft chancre. Strangely enough, however, a second vinilent bubo never forms by absorption of the matter from this. In some rare cases, an abscess is produced both within and external to the affected gland; and the pus of the former is specific, while that of the latter is simple. These collections usually coalesce before an opening takes place; but the pus of the external one, when it is prematurely evacuated, will be found to possess different qualities from that formed within the gland, as may be proved by experimental inoculation. 3. The bubo which necessarily accompanies, and is pathognomonic of, the indurated chancre, is an early concomitant of this affection; and, by the time the induration of the chancre is recognised, will always ba