(EDEMA GLOTTIDIS. 870 paroxj'sm of dyspnoea is induced ; in the tumultuous disorder of respi- ration that ensues, it is not improbable tiiat the patient may drop asphyxiated ; and recovery from tliat state will be seriously affected by the cerebral change already in progress; In other cases, the fatal issue is more gradual; asphyxia steadily advancing, without paroxysmal aggra- vation. The causes of this affection may be idiopathic or traumatic. It may come on from an inflammatory seizure due to cold affecting the larynx, it may be an extension of a tonsillar affection—of a simple, or specific-inflammatory, or cancerous nature. It may also be induced by wounds, bruises, or fractures of the laryngeal apparatus; or by the sting of a bee or wasp, during deglutition, which has been hidden in a mouth- ful of fruit; and we have seen that the imbibition of caustic or boiling water has frequently caused it in an aggravated form. The suitable treatment is active throughout. At first ordinary anti- phlogistics are plied industriously ; blood-letting, antimony, calomel and opium. These may arrest the affection in its first stage. If not, let them be persevered with; for they may yet mitigate the swelling, pre- vent the occurrence of urgent symptoms, and procure a favourable resolu- tion from the second or characteristic stage, without life having been ever seriously endangered by threatened asphyxia. In this stage, however, be it remembered, blood-letting must be had recourse to with very consider- able caution; it being well known, from experience, that there is an in- tolerance of this remedy, heroically employed, in all cases in which respiration is seriously obstructed. Let mercury take the place of loss of blood; and by it, judiciously employed, let us hope to limit product and promote absorption successfully, and thus to make a satisfactory im- pression on the oedematous bulging. Not seldom, marked benefit will follow free scarification of the epiglottis and lips of the glottis, by means of a curved knife; the laryngoscope being used to guide its blade, or the tongue being fully depressed by the mouth-speculum, so as to ren- • der these parts accessible to such procediu-e. Should, however, resolu- tion fail to follow on the use of such means—the symptoms proving both crescent and grave—let bronchotomy be at once had recourse to; regarding the operation as truly a part of the remedial treatment, whereby the peril of extreme urgency may be avoided, not as a last resource. whereby a life half lost may only perhaps be regained. Tracheotomy is plainly to be preferred ; for thus only can we place the artificial opening beneath the seat of obstruction, so as to effectually avert the immediate danger by impending asphyxia ; and thus only can we fulfil the very important indication of placing the affected part in the state of* comparative quietude and repose, so suited for facilitating resolution and. recovery. The medical treatment is not interrupted meanwhile. In due time it tells favourably on the swelling. This begins to subside, and then the use of the tube may be begun to be discontinued, introducing it only occasionally. Ultimately the part recovers itself wholly as to swelling ; and then, the tube having been fully withdrawn, the wound is approximated and encouraged to heal. During the first hours of the tube's use, great care is necessary in keeping the apertui-e clear; viscid mucus is being copiously secreted ; the power of expectoration heiii,? very weak, occlusion of the artificial rinia is apt to ensue ; and such risk