TllEATMENT OF HYDROCELE. 123'i begin to feel pain in the testicle, shooting up the cord into the loins ; and a sensation of faintness Avill probably come upon him. It is time then to put liim to bed, Avith the scrotum supported. If the subsequent in- flammatory process threaten to Ijc excessive, fomentation is applied, and the tumid scrotum is supported by means of a silk liandkerchicf. Tlie serous product, in all cases, re-forms quickly, with heat and pain ; the re-accumulation seeming greater than the first. By and by, howevei-, recession gradually occurs ; the swelling subsides ; the pain ceases ; and, in eight or ten days, we may expect to find the parts restored, perman- ently, to their normal state. It has been proposed to retap, for evacua- tion of the acutely formed serum, and thus to abridge the period of cure ; but this seems to be unnecessary. It is very seldom that the operation fails. Should it do so, it is to be repeated, with a stronger stimulant. The quantity of tincture of iodine which should be injected varies with the size of the sac, from one to three drachms. Before injecting any stimulant, the surgeon should always be sure that the point of the canula is fuUy witliin the cavity of the tunica vaginalis; otherwise, injection of the areolar tissue of the scrotum may take place—a matter of some importance in the days when port wine was used, as such a mistake has been followed by sloughing, and severe constitiitional disturbance. A case of hydrocele presenting itself, injection cannot at once be determined on. It is first necessary to ascertain whether the testicle is sound or not; and this cannot be done until the serum has been dis- charged. If the organ be then found in its normal state, injection may at once be proceeded with. Otherwise, it must be delayed ; we are first to turn our attention to cure of the chronic enlargement; and, after that has been accomplished, the radical operation may then be undertaken. When the testicle is diseased, the accumulation of serum is but a symp- tom of this affection, and is to be treated accordingly. The palpable cause of the redundant secretion must be removed ; otherwise, reproduc- tion can scarcely fail to occur. For the radical cure, by injection, is not usually effected by glueing the serous surfaces together and obliterating the cavity of the tunica vaginaUs, as was at one time supposed. The inflammatory process seldom advances to plastic change ; and the cure is simply by restoring normal function in the membrane. This rule, how- ever, of abstaining from the employment of the radical cure may be departed from in some cases ; in them the injection proving a salutary stimulus for the enlarged gland, as well as for the distended serous sac. The painful operations by seton, caustic, and incision are now fallen mto complete desuetude. Of late, it has been proposed to operate by acupunc- ture ; making small openings with a needle, through which the serum may gradually escape, partly externally, but chiefly into the areolar tissue—thence to be absorbed. The mode is tedious and uncertain ; but being safe, and little painful, it may be had recourse to when the March 1832. His first publication on the subject was in the Transnctions of the Medical and Physical Society of Calcutta, 1834. Fide also Taper read before London Med. Chir. Society, Nov. 1841, published in the Lancet, Nov. 20, 1841 ; and Paper Lancet, in April 30, 1842.