TEEATME^^T OF DISEASE OF CAETILAGE. 355 may prove but slight and transient, and function may be restored ; tlie breach being closed in one or other of the ways already noticed. Or osseous reproduction may prove excessive, occasioning true anchylosis; the limb being retained, but permanently maimed in the function of its articulation. Or the inflammatory destruction of the osseous textures, attended by ulceration and articular caries, may ultimately become both so general and so great, and the constitutional sjanpathy so formidable, as to banish all hope of saving the part, even with impaired form and fimction; compelling us to direct our attention solely to the saving of life by excision or amputation. The joints most prone to suffer are the hip, shoulder, knee, ankle, and elbow; but any articulation may suffer from this form of disease, even the vertebral articulations and sacro-iliac syn- chondroses. The affection may be idiopathic. More frequently it is attributed to external injury; perhaps slight; probably neglected. Exposure to cold, too, is favour- able to its induction ; as are the rheumatic, gouty, mercurial, syphilitic, and scrofulous taints of system. The former causes are more frequent in the adult, the last at an early age and in adolescents. Treatment.—When the disease is only commencing, the hot douche Avill be found in many cases sufficient to cope with it suc- cessfully ; but in more severe and advanced cases the obtaining of complete immimity from all motion, by the adaptation of splints, pust be the paramount indication from the fjeginning to the end of the cure; and next Ln importance ranks counter-frritation on ;he surface. The vesicant form we found to pe most suitable for affections of the syno- vial membrane. In this disease, a higher l^ade, the pyogenic, is required Issues are ihe form generally in use; and they may i)e established by either the potential or the Actual cautery. The latter, as being more powerful, and not more painful, save in its first appHcation, is usually preferred; except in cases where <he destruction of the cartilage has commenced in disease of the synovial membrane, when it is certain to aggravate matters, and probably hurry on ^ippuration. The cure is generally tedious ; and, consequently, the coun- <f'.r-imtation and other means require to be patiently continued. For some <'me, often considerable, the irritation and discharge must be continued Bom the surface ; and this may be effected in one of two ways, either by yrmmg a succession of fresh issues, or by maintaining an open state of rT made. The latter method is most commonly followed : S effectual with the other, less troublesome to the surgeon, less f- nnu to the patient. The discharging surface is dressed from time to " clxarit!' '^^'''^'"^"g' swelling, deformity, lamenes.s ; the advanced stage of i Pig. 153. inor-