839 PUNCTURING THE TYMPANUM. presence of thickening or binding down of the textures contained in the tympanic cavity. The Eustachian catheter has also been employed for the less legiti- mate object of attempting to inject medicated vapour or fluid into the tympanic cavity. Puncturing the Tympanic Cavity. This is effected through the membrana tympani in cases of abscess of the middle ear. It may also be resorted to in cases of deafness, when no other cause than obstruction of the Eustachian tube can be discovered to account for the symptoms. By some it has also been resorted to where the membrane of the tympanum has become very much thickened and rigid, and where by the admission of the vibrations directly to the cavity of the middle ear, one cause of interruption to sound, it may be hoped, will be removed. To effect this little operation, several ingenious instruments have been contrived, the aim in the construction of which has been to remove a circidar portion of the membrane, so as, as much as possible, to inter- fere with contraction and heabng of the wound. Of these the most ingenious is that of Fabricci. " It consists of a canula, into which slides a spiral wu'e, somewhat resembling that of a cork-screw. It is to be used in the following manner :—Pass the canula with the spiral wire down upon the inferior part of the membrana tympani (so as not to inter- fere with the manubrium of the malleus), retain it there with the left hand, being careful not to press too firmly on the membrane ; then, with the right hand, take hold of the small handle which revolves the spiral wire, and turn it from right to left, being what is usually called turning the im'ong way. The instant at which the membrane is perforated is sensibly felt by the operator. The wire is now no longer to be turned ; hut by its handle the instrument is to be retained in its situation ; then gently revolve the canula, which has a cutting edge, from left to right, when a circular portion of the membrana tympani, con-esponding to the diameter of the canula, will be cut out, and at the same time drawn into the canula and held fast by the spiral wire." Or, instead of this instru- ment, a trocar, volute and sharp in the sides, may be employed ; turning it quickly in the membrane, so as to excise the punctured portion. These instruments are, however, unnecessary in practice. An angular incision, forming a triangular flap, should be cut with an iris knife inserted through the speculum, and union prevented by the occasional introduction of a probe coated with nitrate of silver. Otorrhoia. We have already seen how by this term is understood a puriform or purulent discharge from the external meatus; usually preceded by the ordinary signs of an attack of an acute or subacute inflammatory nature. Children are most liable to this affection; and especially those of stru- mous habit. Often it is one of the sequels of scarlatina. It must never be forgotten that the term Otorj-hooa, in truth, compi-ehends many morbid states; inflammatory afl'ection of the external ear, of the cavity of the