RESECTION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. 911 ployed, the operator commences his proceedings by feeling for the inner condyle ; and, placing the nail of the thumb a little to its outer side, so as to keep the uhiar nerve in safety close to the condyle, he introduces his kuife at the point marked by the nail, perpendicularly down to the bone, and then carries his incision across immediately above the olecranon to the outer condyle. The two perpendicular arms of the wound are then made, their extent being carried somewhat further downwards in the forearm than upwards over the humerus. The insertion of the triceps having been cut across, on bending the arm the olecranon is made ; prominent; and this, having been separated from its connection with I the soft parts, is removed by bone pHers, to the requisite extent. The joint can now be very readily dislocated by dividing the internal and external lateral ligaments ; the condyles of the humerus are isolated and sawn off; and the upper parts of the radius and ulna are also removed— the saw being preferred, to avoid bruising of the softened bone. Ee- moval of the olecranon by pliers is mainly to facilitate disarticulation. Should any suspicious portions appear at or near the cut surface, the gouge may be directed against them, or a fresh slice may be removed with the saw. Wlien the operation is practised for anchylosis, a larger extent of bone should be taken away than in cases of acute progressive disease, as the tendency in the chronic cases to the occurrence of a stiff joint is very much greater. In cases of anchylosis, also, after the pos- terior aspect of the joint has been exposed, exactly as described, the anchy- losed joint may either be forcibly broken up so as to effect disarticulation, or the dense osseous tissue may be cut nearly through with the saw; and after isolating the bone above and below, first the brachial, and then the radial and ulnar extremities are sawn off. In other cases, after the preliminary dissection has been carried so far as to disclose the external and internal supra-condyloid ridges, a spatula, or grooved steel director, may be carried across in front of the bumerus at the upper end of the incision, and the bone divided upon it by means of the saw. The use of such an instrument is not here to pro- tect the vessels, but to keep the skin safely out of harm's way in apply- ing the saw. The dissection having then been carried downwards in ■front of the articulation, the joint is now removed entire, the radius and Balna being divided below. I The vessels which require ligature are usually the recurrent ulnar and ■adial; but when the disease is acute, and suppuration is either immi- ■lent or taking place, the vascularity is always greater, and many more ■vessels may require to be tied. Bleeding having been arrested, the wound ■s brought together by sutures, the union of the transverse incision being ■peciaUy desired when the H incision has been employed. If it does ■lot take place, the ultimate mobility and appearance of the part are not ■i^hat they might otherwise have been. The limb is secured by a figure ■f 8 bandage, in a slightly bent posture. No splint is required. Sup- ■•uration and granulation occur; the wound slowly closes; and an ■rtificial joint by ligamentous structure is ultimately formed—usually of ■he greatest usefulness.