3 0 CHAPTEE XXXV. AFFECTIONS OF THE SUPEKIOE MAXILLA. Collection of Fluid in the Antrum. "he antriun is liable to become the seat of a cbronic collection of fluid, hereby its parietes are expanded and. attenuated, and its cavity much □larged. The condition is ordinarily termed abscess; but it seems very oubtful if this appellation be accurately applied. The fluid may be uriform, but is seldom purulent. It is more like what is usually found serous cysts; sometimes thin and serous, sometimes glairy, sometimes inguinolent, sometimes pariform, not unfrequently mingled -with more • less of solid curdy matter. Sometimes a permanent tooth (canine) is und loose in the cavity. The parietes of the cavity are not thickened fresh osseous formation, as in chronic abscess j on the contrary, they •6 simply expanded, becoming thin, and in some places perhaps defi- jent—the loss being supplied by membranous structure, contributed 'ohably by the periosteum. In short, the morbid condition more [sembles that of osteocystoma, than that of chronic abscess of bone. The symptoms of the afi'ection are—the existence of but slight easiness in the part throughout its slow progress; rounded swell- of the cheek, through which the thin osseous shell may be felt to ickle on pressm^e ; fluctiiation can be detected where the prominence is [eatest, if the parietes have become much attenuated; the palate may e considerably downwards; there is sometimes increased secretion m the corresponding nostril, which may consist merely of mucus or the fluid which escapes from the cavity of the antrum by its com- ication with the nostril; and, from the hanging and stiffness of the on that side, articulation may be interfered with. The change may attributed to a sHght and remote injury; or to the presence of de- ed teeth in the corresponding maxilla; but, very frequently, there is assignable exciting cause—unless frequent attacks of coryza, or a dency to congestive affections of the Schneiderian membrane, can be ted on as such. The treatment consists in evacuation; and the opening must be free dependent. An aperture sufficiently dependent may be formed in corresponding alveoli of the canine or first molar teeth; and some- es a communication is found already established there, on removal of decayed teeth or stumps. But such an opening is seldom if ever ciently free, when of spontaneous formation; indeed, sufiicient space ot readily obtained at this part, even by operation. And it is essen- that the opening shall be of some considerable size; otherwise the