550 TJiKATMKNT OK FALSK JOIN'J'. of motion is aLundantly favoured; and a limb so circumstanced is, ii' uu- supported by extrinsic aid, almost wholly useless as an organ either ol prehension or support. The occurrence is more frequent in military than in civil practice ; for two very obvious reasons. First, in tlie field, means for duly conducting the treatment of fracture are less available; secondly, the bruising inflicted by shot-wounds is inimical to satisfac- tory processes of cure, both in the soft and in the hard tissues. Treatment of False Joint.—To undo the apparatus of a fractured limb, and to find the solution of continuity in the bone still unrestored, at the end of four, five, six, seven, or eight weeks, is no demonstratioi of the expected union having altogether failed. It may be that the for- mation of new bone, though slow and imperfect, is yet in progi'css; and, if undisturbed by movement of the limb, this may be completed in no unreasonable time. Supposing then, that on removal of our splints, at the end of the accustomed period of probation, we find the broken ends still movable on each other, it is manifestly our duty to re-apply the retentive ap- paratus with still greater care than formerly, and to keep it so applied for a considerably greater period than was at first contemplated. Not until a reasonable period of probation—say four, five, or six months— for the construction of the essential part of the uniting process, shall 1 have passed away, does the surgeon abandon either the careful use of his simple retentive apparatus, or the hope of cure. In regard to this form of "ununited fracture," there need be no tvo opinions as to the right mode of treatment; namely, to put up the hmb afresh, to keep the parts immovable, and to maintain the general health and powers of system in as vigorous a condition as possible. The im-1 movable starch apparatus is here extremely suitable; which permits, at the same time, the general health to be attended to, by enabling the patient to move about. In the treatment of such cases, diet is generous; and even stimuli also may be necessary. But when, at the end of four, five, six months, or more, we find the limb still loose and movable at the site of fracture, it is a sign that the ordinary process of reunion has failed in all its parts. And the same conclusion is forced upon us in cases of an earlier date—six or eight weeks only, it may be, after the accident—when mobility is great, when a space defective in everything like restorative means can be felt between the ends of the bones, and when these can be plainly felt blunt, tapering, and rounded. In such cases it is, that difference of opinion prevails as to the best modes of treatment, and latitude exists as to their selection. It naturally occurs to one, that it would be desirable to restore som thing like the state of matters which occurs at the first, immediately after the injury has been received; so that we may start again in treat- ment de novo. Accordingly, among other plans, it has been proposed (Wlaite) to expose the part by incision, to saw ofi" the ends of the bon%, and then, closing the wound, to re-adjust all carefully. Tims is a recent fracture re-established no doubt, but now it is a compound one ; and, being so, it is by no means an improvement on tlie original casualty. Tlie proceeding is obviously—by bringing life into hazard—too severe, in the recent and otherwise minor cases, and should be regarded as reserved