400 DIAGNOSIS OF ANEURISM. swelling, not aneurismal, laid over the track of an artery, and receiving impulse from it, has a very distinct pulsation when the first mode of pressure is employed; but when raised, and held by the sides, pulsation "will be found either very faint or altogetlier absent. 3. Aneurisms of the large arteries have frequently a double impulse; the first corresponding to the diastole of the arteiy; the second taking place between it and the following diastole, and corresponding to the systole of the artery. Tumours which merely receive arterial pulsation exhibit only one impulsion, isochronous with the arterial diastole. 4. Pulsation of aneurism is felt from the first. Not so, in the case of swellings not aneurismal. At first these are small; and, not encroach- ing on the vessel, they receive from it no impulse. Only after some time do they enlarge to such an extent as to be in close contact with the artery; and then they receive its pulsation. 5. Aneurism has expansion co-incident with pulsation. The fingers placed firmly on the tumour diminish it more or less; pulsation is felt increasing in proportion to the pressure employed ; and at each impulse there is a palpable elevation of the hand, by expansion of the walls of the cyst. A swelling not aneurismal, on the contrary, may be elevated at each stroke of the vessel, as well as have its apparent impulse aug- mented by increase of pressure; but it has no expansion of its entire bulk at every point; it is simply raised—and, whether in systole or diastole, its dimensions are unaltered. There is one exceptional case, however, which may render diagnosis very difl&cult. K a chronic ab- cess, or other cyst, overlay an artery thus— then its pulsation will be equal in all direc- tions, each impulse will be accompanied with a sensation of expansion, and bruit may doubt- less be distinct. Extrication from error, how- ever, may still be within our power, by refe- rence to the fourth test; inasmuch as inquiry ft into the swelling's history will inform us, that when small and recent it shewed no sign at all aneurismal. This shuts out the idea of idiopathic aneurism in such a case ; but at the same time it is to be remembered that the abscess, by encroachment on the vessel, may havt ultimately perforated its walls, and so have been converted into a form of accidental aneurism, as formerly explained. 6. An aneurism ordinarily affords both thriU and bruit to touch and auscultation; and the latter, in the larger arteries, may be double, hko the impulse. Another tumour may possess the bruit, but has not both conjoined ; unless, indeed, it be the exceptional case just stated. 7. Pressure on the cardiac aspect of the aneurism diminishes it-s pulsation, bulk, and thrill; pressure on the distal aspect has a precisely contrary effect. Another tumour may have its apparent pulsation simi- larly affected ; but the pulsation only. 8. Change of relative position affects the aneurism but little. Pull it rudely aside, and, by impeding arterial flow, the pulsation, expansion, Fig. 172. Section of an abscess, or other cyst (&), overlaying an artery (a). The aneurismal state must be closely simulated under such circumstances. Fig. 172.