454 NEURALGIA. of neuroma, the pain may be equally severe, but is not so much aggra- vated by pressure; heat and the ordinary signs of the acute inflammar tory process are absent; and the system is not involved in inflammatory fever, but rather wasted by disorder of the adynamic type, resembling an ordinary hectic. If neuroma form and be superficial, the painful, hard swelling can be distuictly felt. Treatment is conducted according to ordinary antiphlogistic princi- ples ; activity being proportioned to the nature and urgency of the case. Gcbteris paribus, the nearer the part afl'ected is to the nervous centres, the more important is the case, and the greater the expediency of active measures for relief. Neuralgia. This denotes increased and perverted sensation in a nerve ; uncon- nected with the inflammatory process, or with change of structure, at the part where the pain is felt. The afiection is of two kinds ; entu-ely functional, being unconnected with organic lesion, at any part of the nerve's course, or at the nervous centres ; or, as more frequently happens, connected with organic change, acute or chronic—more frequently the latter—at some part of the nerve's course, or at the nervous centres. The one is an example of pure irritation, or functional nervous derange- ment ; the other may be termed—irritation, dependent on organic lesion at a distant part of the nervous tissue. The nerves most Uable to neur- algia are the fifth pair, and the sciatic; the former more especially. But all are apt to suffer. Neuralgia may be anywhere; in the head, face, arms, chest, abdomen, back, legs, or feet. The pain is intense, but intermittent; sudden in its onset, also abrupt in its decadence; shooting or plunging in its character, and often quite excruciating ; readily induced by the slightest external impression affect- ing the mere surface ; but seldom aggravated by firm pressure on the part; on the contrary often relieved thereby. Occasionally, dehrium seems to ensue from mere severity of suff"ering. Tic-douloureux in the face—affection of the fifth nerve—is a familiar example of the gravest form. I^ot unfrequently, the attacks are periodical and regular in their accession ; and muscular spasm is a common attendant on the paroxysm. Some neuralgic patients sufier especially in certain months of the year. Eheumatic pains not unfrequently follow the course of the nerves; dependent on affection of the fibrous neurilemma. But such pains are not truly neuralgic. They are less intense, less intermittent, less paroxysmal, and are associated with the ordinary rheumatic accompaniments. The Cause of Neuralgia is usually obscure. There may be no organic change in any part of the nervous tissue, as already stated; and the origin of the purely functional derangement may prove quite inscrutable. Or there may be disorder of some internal organ ; apparently connected with the neuralgia, in the relation of cause and effect; the latter disap- pearing when the former has been removed. A neuralgic pain of the leg or foot, for example, has often yielded to treatment directed to i-o- moval of noxious matter from the intestinal canal, with restoration of the normal secretions.