532 Fig. 212. DIAGNOSIS OF FRACTURE. fragment is driven into and lodged in the cancellous texture of the other, Dy the same violence which caused the fracture; and so the bone^ ^"^^ although really broken, seems rigidly firm There is usually besides but little deformity, and usually no distinct crepitus under ordinary manipulation. Examples of this form of injury are constantly, met with, iai fracture of the distal extremity of the radius, and at the trochanteric portion of the femur. Diagnosis.—The manipulations necessary to ascertain the nature of the accident, and which are especially directed towards detection of crepitus, are to be conducted with all gentleness ; so as not to produce unnecessary pain, or endanger further injury to the soft parts, with aggravation of subse- quent inflammatory accession ; and yet with deter- mination, sufficient for fully satisfying the examiner as to diagnosis. It is much better that one thorough examination shoidd be made at once, painful though it be, than that more gentle m.ovements and inquiries should be made with frequent repetition; delaying the means of cure. Also let it be borne in mind that, at whatever cost of suffer- ing to the patient, it is our paramount duty to make such a thorough examination ; for two reasons. In the first place, in order that the required repose and treatment of the part may be immediately insti- tuted ; in the second place, and mainly, that error of diagnosis may be avoided. For, suppose that in the hip insufficient examination has led to the latter event ; that a fracture is believed to exist, while in truth the injury is dislocation. The ordinary treatment for fracture is apphed, and continued for the usual period. On finally undoing the retentive apparatus, the true nature of the case may be for the first time disclosed; , too late to remedy the evil. The patient remains a cripple for life ; and . an untoward event has happened to the surgeon's Avelfare and reputation. . Anaesthesia is of great advantage here; especially in the yoimg, and i in those who from any cause are intolerant of manipulation. They are i saved aU suffering; and the surgeon, undistracted, and in quiet leisure, , deliberately satisfies himself as to the condition of every part—all the more readily and accurately because the muscles are rendered phant and unresisting. The required examination should always be conducted in an orderly manner, such as the following :—The clothes should first be carefully removed; stripping the uninjured limb first, so that the sleeve of the coat, or leg of the trowsers, may be taken off with as little pain to the patient, or injury to the limb, as possible. In many cases, it is better to rip up the seams rather than lift the limb or interfere with the parts, especially when the injury is probably severe ; as by too free motion many a simple fracture has been converted into a compound injiuy. Next, before proceeding to manipulate the injured part, its position, as spontaneously assumed, and any change in external form, length, or Fig. 212. Impacted fracture, throiigli the trochanters. The upper fragment is wedged into the lower.