LEECHES. 51 thus loosened by entrance of the atmospheric air, is slowly bent, as it were, downwards ; the Hnger, placed flatly, pressing firmly on its rising ed(?e, so as to sweep all the blood into its interior, leaving the bed and body clothes unsoiled. The number of the glasses, and their applica- tions, are varied according to the amount and rapidity of abstraction desired. The avemge product of a single glass, skilfully applied, may be held as ranging from four to six ounces. °If the glass be placed over a wound, or wounds, fed by a distinct arterial branch—such as the anterior branch of the temporal artery— the portion of the rim which overlays this vessel, on its cardiac aspect, is to be a little raised ; so as to permit free arterial influx, otherwise the bleeding will prove but scanty. Abstraction over, the parts are lightly and cleanly sponged, and covered by some simple dressing ; usually they heal readily, by adhesion. But it may be desirable that they should not do so ; the case may be such, as to render the early succession of counter-irritation advisable. The wounds are then treated so as to favour advance of the inflammatory process—irritated by a stimulant, or congested by a poultice—and the scarified part is thus speedily and easily converted into a suppurating issue. Much ingenuity has been expended in adapting apparatus to the performance of this operation ; but all modifications have, each in their turn, been found inferior to the ordinary mode. Success mainly de- pends on attention to three points—frequent change of the glasses, using the spirit-lamp with a large wick and a large flame, and a quick hori- zontal movement (not vertical) of the glass to the part. . Leeches can be used when and where cupping-glasses and scarificators cannot. Their application is best effected by confining them in a glass, or wire-gauze receptacle; which, inverted, is held steadily till they fasten on the part whence we wish the blood to come. They are thus pre- vented from sprawling abroad diffusedly, as their fancy would probably lead them. The part is previously made smooth by abrasion—if need be—and clean by ablution ; especially if foetid or otherwise noxious matter have been formerly applied. Appetite is increased in the animals by their being made dry ; both outside and in. On this account, they should be kept for some time out of water, and be gently rubbed with a soft towel before application. And it is well also to surround them with cambric, the unsubstantial network of which—aff"ording no firm surface for their tails to rest on—seems to irritate them into activity. If still slow to bite, they may be briefly immersed in warmish porter; and the part may be smeared, either with sweet cream, or with blood freshly drawn from a puncture. Wlien they have filled and let go, the part is diligently and hotly fomented, so as to encourage oozing from the aper- tures ; and by this the greater part of the bleeding will probably be taken. Each leech, or rather each leech-bite, may be rated at about an ounce and a half. Sometimes the hemorrhage is troublesome, by continuance, from one or more of the apertures. Let firm, direct, dry pressure be maintained, for a short time ; and this will probably be sufficient for its arrest. Or, along with pressure, matico may be applied—in leaf, or in powder, or in