TREATMENT OF DISLOCATION, 5G0 until the measures for counter-extension are efficiently provided for, tliere IS no use in proceeding with our eiibrts to effect reduction. A laque, or noDSe, is put upon tlie affected Umb; ;i damp bandage or towel having been previously wrapped tightly round the part, to prevent its excoriation. This laque usually consists of a stout band of worsted, secured by what is termed the clove hitch ; the advantage of which is, that while it holds a firm grasp, it cannot be tightened by pulling so as unduly to constrict the limb. To the laque the pulleys and rope are attaclied hy a hook ; the other hook is secured to a fixed point opposite the patient; and then the rope is steadily pulled, as the surgeon may direct. Instead of the laque, a circular collar of leather well padded on the inner aspect may be adapted to the part, and tightened by a screw ; but the former is more convenient, and fully as efficient. A question may arise as to the point of its application. If attached to the distal end of tlie hone affected (preferred by British surgeons)—as above the knee, in dislocation of the Fig. 226. hip—extending force is exerted more directly, and with greater power, on the displaced bone ; and, from bending of the leg being permitted, the desired rotatory movements of the head of the bone can be more' readily and powerfully performed. Yet it may be, that a near appli- cation of the noose may have the same effect as too early attempts at coaptation ; stimulating the implicated muscles to resistance of the ex- tending power—more especially if the patient should emerge from the deep stupor of chloroform; and, at any period, by compressing the muscles which we desire to extend, in some degree interfering with the efficiency of the extension. If attached to the distal extremity of the limb, on the contrary (preferred by French surgeons)—as above the ankle, in the example referred to—the extending force is indirect, and loses some- what of its power by transmission through the intervening knee-joint; Fig. 225. The clove-liitch ; sliewn on a coil of rope. Fig. 226. Mode of reducing dislocation shewn. At a, counter-extension made; at h, the hujuc attached to the thigh ; at c, tlie ijulleys.