TREATMENT OF NEURALGIA. 455 Sometimes the neuralgia seems dependent on an irritation, less formid- able than itselt; in a diiierent part of the same nervous expansion. Violent neuralgia of the infra-orbital nerve, for instance, is often assuaged, or perhaps cured, by removal of a decayed or otherwise altered tooth, -which may have been occasioning but little apparent disturbance in its own immediate vicinity. A spiculum of bone, or mere enlargement of an osseous canal, may 80 compress and irritate a passing nerve, as to induce neuralgia in its extreme expansions. And it is supposed, with probability, that similar results may follow compression of a nerve in an osseous canal in conse- quence of change in the accompanying blood-vessels—expansion by local determination—independently of any alteration in the osseous texture. Very frequently organic change, existing at some part of the nervous tissue, may reasonably be judged the cause of the neuralgia; a thickening or enlargement of the nerve, at some part; or a disorganization, or con- gestion, or inflammatory product, at some part of the nervous centre, near the origin of the nerve or nerves affected. In chronic disease of the upper part of the spinal cord, and lower and posterior part of tlie brain, there is no more frequent or distressing class of symptoms than plunging neuralgic pains, with muscular spasms, in the lower limbs. But, whatever the exciting cause, there seems to exist some predis- posing origin of neuralgia, which we cannot define ; a constitutional tendency to the disorder, which may, and does, of itself maintain the malady, after every appreciable cause has been sought for and removed ; and which doubtless is the sole origin, in those cases in which no ex- citing cause can be detected even after death. In the case of neuralgia apparently dependent on neuromata, for instance, these may be taken away by incision, and the wound treated most carefully j yet the same painfid feelings are very prone to return, before fresh neuromata have had time to form ; and may continue, even when careful manipula- tion satisfies the surgeon that additional neuromata have actually not been produced. Hysteria obviously predisposes to the disease, and may sometimes also prove its exciting cause. But in these cases, the pain is not so apt to follow the course of nerves, but rather to settle on the surface of a part, or even in an internal organ. The termination of the disease is not uniform. It may yield to treatment. Freq;iently it defies all remedies, and suddenly disappears spontaneously • the cause of decadence proving still more mysterious than that of accession. Or continued irritation may induce serious change in the nervous centres ; and the result may be apoplexy, or insanity. Or the irritation may simply exhaust the patient, by emaciation and hectic. Treatment—Our first and most obvious duty is, to anxiously seek lor and detect a cause, if possible; and, having found it, to eftect its removal, if this be in our poAver. Disorders of the uterus are to be remedied ; intestinal irritation, by lodgment of noxious matter, or other- ^'^iHc, IS to be suljdued ; dyspepsia is to be set right ; ofl'ending teeth or 3 umps are to be extracted ; neuromata, or painful subcutaneous tubercles,