730 STRABISMUS. vision, as mere disuse of the eye could not tally with the instantaneous improvement in such cases, which is found to follow the operation. Op examining a squinting eye with the ophthalmoscope, a contracted, oval dark-coloured optic entrance is generally recognised, which, being pro! bably a congenital malformation, may help to account for the occurrence of strabismus in dijfferent members of the same family. Other mon- marked structural lesions of the choroid and retina may however be present, and >vhen this is the case the source of the imperfection oi vision is all too obvious, and of course cannot be expected to be remedied by operation. Strabismus may be congenital, but usually makes its appearance about the third or fourth year. When temporary, it may be traceable to the cerebral excitement present during den- tition, to gastric and intestinal irritation, f febrile excitement, or to general debility; and by attention to th treatment of these affections the squint will disappear. Should it be slight in degree and variable in intensity, then by binding up the sound eye, and exercising the one which squints, advantage may be obtained. Where one eye is short-sighted (myopic) or hypermetropic, the adaptation of a concave or convex glass to suit the condition will usually reproduce parallelism of the optic axes. When no such condi- tions are present, or when in spite of their removal the squint remains; when there is no opacity of the cornea, and no serious structural lesion of the interior of the globe, as seen by the ophthalmoscope; when the brain, nerves, and orbit are sound; when the vision of the affected eye is only impaired, not destroyed—amounting, perhaps, only to a mere perception of light—then the operation for strabismus should be recommended, and resorted to as early as possible, so as to secure for the patient the ad- vantage of binocular vision, at a period when his education is only beginning. The oi)eration for strabismus consists in the division of the internal rectus muscle of the eye, or eyes, affected in the coiivergent form—of the external rectus in the divergent form. This operation, though probably resorted to in the last century, was first executed upon any definite" principle by Dieffenbach in 1839 ; and since that time has been recog- nised as one of the regular operations of surgery, requiring however surgical skill and careful diagnosis for its suitable and successful employ- ment. As performed by Dieffenbach, the operation was as follows:— A fold of conjunctiva, midway between the cornea and the semilunarr fold, about |-lh of an inch from the former, having been seized and ele- vated, by means of common dissecting forceps, is divided by a stroke of the scissors. By one or two touches of these, aided by the forceps, the subconjunctival areolar tissue is cut, and the tendon exposed—at that, point where it is inserted into the sclerotic. It may now either be gathered up by the forceps, or elevated on a blunt hook passed beneath,' and completely divided. And it is well to make, at the same time, Fig. 264. Plan of the eye, showing the line of incision in the conjunctira, in tl operation of Dieffenbach. Pig. 264.