896 LIGATURE OF THE ARTERIES OF THE FOREARM. At the middle of the arm, tlie incision is made along the inner border of the biceps muscle, which, overlapping the vessel, may require to be raised slightly. The median nerve is to be expected lying upon the artery; and while this nerve is displaced inwards, and the muscle held outwards, the artery may be separated from its veins and secured. It is right to remember, however, that, in this situation, the inferior profunda may be mistaken for the main trunk; and also that, if there be a high division of the humeral, one of the two vessels only may have been tied. Not until the surgeon has been fully satisfied on both of these points, should the operation be completed by approximation of the wound In the case of high division, the second trunk, if not close to the other, will be found either along the intermuscular septum, in a line Avith the inner condyle of the humerus ; or near its usual situation, but deeply placed, and covered by fibres of the brachialis anticus muscle—conditions which, along with other very common abnormal distributions, should serve as an additional reason for preferring the application of the Hgature in cases of wounds, or of false aneurism, to the part of the vessel actually implicated in the injury. In the lower part of the arm, the median nerve is to bo expected on the ulnar side of the artery; but it is seldom that we are called upon to operate in this situation, except for wound of that part of the vessel; which, however, is of rare occurrence, as the artery is so completely pro- tected by the prominence of the belly of the biceps muscle. At the bend of the arm, false aneurism of the brachial was prover- bially common, when blood-letting by venesection was more in vogua If prevention by methodical pressure have failed in recent cases, the sac is to be cut into, and the vessel secured by ligature above and below the aperture—a tourniquet having been applied above so as to control the circulation. Shoiild any difficulty arise in dissecting the vessel clear, at the point of communication with the probe or director intro^ duced at the aperture will serve to indicate the outline and direction ot the trunk. In tumours of old standing, deligation of the humeral, near its middle, is a simpler, and has in many cases proved an equally effectual procedure. It was this operation which was performed by Anel (1710). Varicose aneurism, occurring at tliis site, requires the same treatment as the ordinary form of tumour. For aaeurisvial varix, support by careful bandaging is usually sufiicient. Should an operation be deemed neces- sary, the vessel should be tied without opening the dilated veins. Deligation of the Arteries of the Forearm. Deligation here is never necessary except in the case of hemorrhage from wound of the arteries themselves ; and then it is sufficient to dilate- the existing apertures in the soft parts, and to secure the bleeding pointy or points, in the usual way. When ligature of both ulnar and ratlial has been practised, for secondary bleeding in the palm, hemorrhage has sometimes been reproduced, the conmiunication by means of the inter- osseous proving sufficient to maintain the bleeding. Then, instead of a threefold and difficult operation, it is infinitely belter, if a ligature on the Hunterian principle should ever bo employed for sndi a con.lii.ion, a ■