717 TKEATMENT OF CATARACT. Traumatic Cataract may "be occasioned by blows upon the eye, or 1)V wound of the globe, in which the capsule of the lens is torn or its >tmcturo injured. When it forms, the opacity is attended by swelling ,.f the lens, and gradual solution and absorption of its structures—due to the eflect of the aqueous humour upon them. Spurious Cataract is said to exist, when organised fibrinous product i iccupies the pupil. This is distinguished from true cataract by being of I yellow or whitish colour; and by the iris being adherent to the lens, besides being puckered, altered in hue, irregular in its pupillary margin, and perhaps bulged forwards into the anterior chamber, from the increased oration of fluid in the posterior chamber. Treatment.—Our art has as yet proved impotent, in attempting to stay the progress of advancing cataract; and, when it has fairly formed, 110 faith need be reposed in any attempts at simple discussion of the o]iaque structure. Amendment can only be obtained by operation. The obstructing body may be wholly extracted from the eye; or it may be pushed out of the axis of vision; or it may be broken up into fragments, which are expected to be afterwards absorbed; or it may be simj)ly drilled; or it may have its capsule opened, so as to admit the aqueous liumour, and thus favour absorption of the crystalline substance. Eefore any operation, however, is undertaken, certain preliminaries require to ■ determined. "VVe must first be satisfied that the eye is in other ■ spects sound; so that, when the obstruction to the passage of the rays of hght is removed, there may be a fair prospect of vision being restored. There must be no serious disease distroying the integrity of the retina, choroid, or vitreous humour; no ophthalmia, or affection of the eyelids. The iris should be stead}^, and healthy in colour, acting when light is admitted to the eye ; the pupil uuadherent; the anterior chamber neither rliminished by bulging forwards of the lens, nor unnaturally large in msequence of recession of the pupillary margin. The lens should be nxed, showing no oscillation when the globe is moved. The patient must be free from any marked constitutional ailment, especially of a gouty or rheumatic kind. The state of the atmosphere should be mild and favourable. While there is a tolerably useful amount of vision enjoyed by either eye, it is more prudent to refrain from operation ; the results of this being found most satisfactory in cases where vision is so impaired that the patient cannot read, recognise his friends, or go IVom place to place. One eye only should be operated on at a time. Fmally, by careful regimen, hygiene, and medicinal treatment if neces- iry, the system is brought into a favourable state, and rendered as little ^ possible susceptible of the inflammatory access. In the congenital variety an operation should be performed early; iherwise the unsteady rolling motion {Nystagmus) which the eyeball is ' prone to assume, will prove an impediment to subsequent interference, "d to the successful result of operation. Extraction.—In the operation by extraction, the opaque lens is •moved from the eye through an aperture in the cornea—an operation, "ecessarily comprehending a considerable extent of wound, and no slight "lount of injury done to the parts. If, however, inflammatory mischief ■'oes not-supervene, the result is most eminently satisfactory. Eut if