203 SCllOFULA.. commencement of tlio cheesy metamorphosis of the product. The change advances further and further outwards, till usually the whole formation is involved in it. The tuhercle never attains any considerable size. The large tuher- cular masses which are sometimes met with—as, for example, in the brain, of the size of a walnut, in the pleura like large yellow masses— are not simple tubercles. Every such tubercular mass consists of thou- sands of tubercles ; in fact, it is a nest of them, and enlarges, not by the growth of the original/ocz^s, but by the formation and addition of new mihary tubercles at its circumference. The cheesy transformation by which the tubercle is disintegrated, although the usual, is not the only termination of the product; in rare cases, by complete fatty metamorphosis, it becomes capable of reabsorp- tion. Again, many so-called tubercular infiltrations, or even tubercular knots and deposits, are undoubtedly nothing more than the inspissated results of a preliminary inflammatory process. Tubercular matter, con- stituting the curdy or flaky substance of chronic abscesses, or adhering to the remains of the vertebrae in Pott's disease, or occupying in part the sac of the pleura, are examples on the large scale of such an imperfect reabsorption of pus. In the history of pulmonary tuberculosis, this is what occurs :— shrivelled up cells, like those enclosed within the alveoli of the lungs, become inspissated in one alveolus after another, extending in gradual onward progress till a cheesy hepatization is produced, such as is usually described under the name of tubercular infiltration. The nature of tubercle cannot be studied after it has become cheesy, for from that time its history is identical with that of pus which is be- coming similarly affected. In the lymphatic glands, tubercles are always of an opaque yellowish colour, and disposed to soften; in the lungs, and other organs, they are sometimes pearly or semitransparent, and of considerably fijmer con- sistence. The masses enlarge, and become confluent; at the same time softening, and assuming a yellower appearance. Finally, a considerable portion breaks down into the flaky and curdy pus before mentioned, and is evacuated. When microscopically examined at an earlier period, what especially characterizes this formation is the abundance of nuclei, so that, when examined as it hes imbedded in the tissue by which it is surrounded, there seems to be nothing but nuclei. But upon isolating the consti- tuents of the mass, either very small cells provided with one nucleus, often so small that the cell-wall closely invests the nucleus, or larger cells with a multiple division of the nucleus, are observed. In the latter case, from twelve to twenty-four, or even thirty nuclei, may be contained m one cell; these nuclei are, however, always small, and have a homo- geneous shining aspect. Tliis structure, which in its development is comparatively most nearly related to pus, in so far as it possesses the smallest nuclei, and relatively the smallest cells, of any morbid formation—is distinguished from all tlic more highly organized forms of cancer, cancroid, and simple tumours, oy those containing voluminous, nay, often gigantic corpuscles, witli