758 EXTIRPATION OF THE UPPEll JAW. lion or " gripe" forceps are at liand, they command the maxilla more thoroughly, so as to enable the operator witli the sllghtcBt effort to remove 4 the bone; while complete separation may be assisted by cutting witli l], knife or scissors those soft parts wliich require division ; the ling,.- however, usually suffices for this purpose. Sometimes the palate boji, comes away with the maxilla, sometimes it remains and is of servic. afterwards when a false palate and teeth are fitted in. One or U vessels, branches of the internal maxillary, hanging in the deep woun will probably require ligature; and the facial vessels, which during tl. operation, if not tied at once, were restrained by the fingers of an d^- sistant, are also secured. The amount of deep bleeding in non-niali. nant cases is generally trivial—the vessels being torn, not cut, duru. evulsion of the tumour—and certainly never requires ligature of tn Fig. 273. carotid as a preliminary proceeding. The vacant space, having bee;> cleared of coagulum, is filled witb lint; and over this the flap is lai down. The incision is then brought together with great accm-acy, b. means of the wire suture, and one harelip suture may be employe , with advantage at the labial margin. Union by adliesion generall ' occurs in almost the entire extent of the facial wound. The dee cavity of course suppurates. The lint loosens, and is brought aTra) A less amount of dressing is daily renewed, medicated witli a "vreai solution of the chlorurets ; and cicatrization is obtained in due tim In some cases, a marked deficiency remains ; and tliis may be rcmedie by the skill of the dentist. Eut in other cases, the deficiency is wo: derfully atoned for; partly by the formation of new matter, partly b contraction and accommodation of the old. If after-bleeding ensue removal of the lint which acts as a poultice to the part, soaked as it no Fig. 273. Portrait after removal of the upper jaw, for osteosarcoma. An examp of how little deformity may in some cases remain.