462 THE SHOCK OF INJURY. functions may become wholly suspended, the heart's action may cease, and existence terminate. Sometimes such symptoms abate rapidly, reaction quickly commenc- ing and soon becoming completely established; sometimes they persist for hours, reaction proving both late and gradual; not un frequently reaction fails, sinking is again progressive, the syncope is complete, and life becomes extinct. Reaction—a more or less gradual return towards health—is usually preceded by a distinct rigor, and very often by full vomiting. The influence of the nervous system is restored, and the sanguiferous propor- tionally rallies. Sensation, motion, intelligence, gradually return. The patient becomes conscious of his state, and inclines to inquire into it; his manner grows less wild and agitated, his eye is steady and expressive, his countenance is less anxious, his features are more full and composed; secretion again becomes normal; the heart beats with gradually increas- ing power and regularity; the pulse • becomes stronger and equable, and is felt distinctly in the extremities; heat comes back to the surface, and i this parts with its pale anserine appearance. The patient recovers him- • self, in short; sits up ; and once more is an intelligent member of the ! world around him. This may be the result of Nature's eifort, alone and 1 unaided; or our art may assist in its induction. Whether its commencement be spontaneous or not, its progress t should always be watched most carefully. The action may advance • favourably to completion, and proceed no further than attainment to the ; even balance of health; little or no extrinsic aid being required, either • then or subsequently. Or it may overstep the bounds of health, and 1 pass into disease ; producing either irritative or inflammatory fever, ac- - cording as the excess is of a sthenic or asthenic character. Or the salu- - tary effort may be imperfect from the first, and asthenic throughout; ; partial restoration of pulse, consciousness, and general warmth, being quickly followed by relapse; a febrile accession occurs, but is of the typhoid character, tending to renewed prostration, collapse, and death. Again, in the case of lesion of certain internal organs, as the brain, pre- mature occurrence of simple reaction may prove calamitous by escape of blood from the injured part—unfavourable to persistence or resumption of healthy function. Even from an ordinary wound, the progress of re- action must be regarded; otherwise an inconvenient hemorrhage may ensue. But the shock of injury may be considered practically as of two kinds—mental and corporeal. In the former, the patient—to use an ordinary phrase—is more frightened than hurt. The wound in reaUty is but sUght, yet the attendant shock is great; it is however transient. Its origin was mental; alarm, being great and sudden, exercised a most powerfully depressing influence on the brain and general nervous system, which again lowered the circulation, and the combined result may have been a near approach to sjmcope. But so soon as the mind has been reassured—the injury having been seen and felt to be in truth trivial— depression passes away, and by reaction the balance of health is soon re-established. The practical importance of distinguishing between this and the more real shock may be thus illustrated.—Suppose a patient