1112 HiEMATUlilA. The renal source of the hcmorrliage is known, by the blood being diffused equably through tlie mine; by the expelled fluid contaiuiufr cylindrical portions of fibrin, like small worms, tlie result of coagula in the ureter—sometimes colourless, sometimes of a pale pink hue; by tlie appearance of blood being preceded and accompanied by pain and heat in the loins, and other renal symptoms;—and more especially when sucli symptoms are present on one side only. Treatment consists in such means as are best calculated to remove the cause ; in the case of external injury, rest, fomentation, low diet, leeching if necessary ; in the case of stone, the palliative or more thoroughly remedial measures, which wo have already seen to be suitable in this dis- ease ; in the idiopathic bleeding, connected with a generally relaxed state of system, and threatening exliaustion by continuance, such remedies as are useful for passive hemorrhage—more especially rest, local applica- tion of cold, and internal use of gallic acid. 2. From the Bladder.—This is the most frequent variety; as already seen, a very constant attendant on vesical calculus ; and then liable to be aggravated by circumstances. It may also proceed from a congested or inflamed state of the mucous membrane, unconnected with the presence of any foreign body. More or less, it is common in cystitis. From ulcera- tion of the mucous coat it cannot fail to occur. But perhaps the most frequent source, next to that of calculus, is enlarged and ulcerated pros- tate. And if this state co-exist with calculus, the loss of blood is likely to be both large and frequent. Malignant tumour of the bladder as it ulcerates, must furnish blood; and a large amount may flow from injury done to the coats of the viscus, by ill-managed catheters, bougies, or lithontriptors. "Worms lodge in the bladder; sometimes, though rarely; and they have been knoivu to occasion profuse and even fatal loss of blood. Vesical hemorrhage may be so profuse as to furnish blood tolerably pure from the urethra. And, in general, this variety of hsematuria may be known, by the blood not being mixed with the urine ; the latter fluid passes off first, tolerably pure; and the blood comes last, more or less changed by mixture with the residue of the urine. It is also known by the absence of renal symptoms j and by the presence of undoubted signs of stone in the bladder, or other disease of that viscus, or of affection of the prostate. In the case of direct injury done to the bladder by instru- ments, there need be no room for doubt. Treatment, varying according to the cause, is plain and obvious, and need not be particularized. Sometimes blood escapes in large quantity—in the case of stone, or enlarged prostate—and accumulates in the bladder; coagulating, and causing retention of urine. A hard tumour is felt in the hypogastrium ; the ordinary distressful signs of retention are aU present; on intx'oducing the catheter, only a small quantity of bloody urine passes off; the fibrin- ous clot may bo felt plainly enough, on moving the instrument's point; and, on withdrawing the catheter, this is found more or less obstructed by coagulum. If the symptoms be not urgent, we may content ourselves with occasional introduction of the catheter, to remove what loose fluid there is; the coagulum gradually dissolves in the urine, and comes aAvay. If urgency exist, however, it is advisable to inject a small qiuuitity of