G8 THE ACTUAL CAUTERY. for this purpose, of various dimensions. By absorbing no discharge, it greatly favours cleanliness and absence of unpleasant odour ; and, besides, remains long entire, and does not require the painful process of renewal. It is moved to a side once or twice a day, wiped and simply replaced. The necessity for discharge diminishing, the size of the seton-tape is made proportionally to decrease; ultimately the last tbin shred is altogether withdi'awn, and its track encouraged to close. Sometimes, in the case of large setons of old standing, a clump of red, vascular, angry-loolcing granulations form, at one or other extremity of the suppurating track; giving the patient much annoyance, by pain and irritation ; and sometimes_ emitting a considerable quantity of florid blood. They are easily got rid of, without removing the seton, by the stroke of a knife or scissors ; or by the appKcation of an escharotic, such as the potassa fusa. An Issue may be established either by the knife or by an escharotic. In tbe former case, it differs from the seton in being an open instead of a subintegumental wound. An incision is made ; and, to prevent its heal- ing, and to insure its degeneration into a suppurating sore, a foreign body, such as a pea, is placed between the margins, and retained by plaster or bandage ; the foreign matter of course varying in bulk, according to the extent of the wound, and the amount of discharge desired. When an escharotic is used, it may be either potential or actual; the former is the more generally employed; and the j)otassa fusa is, on the Avhole, most suitable. It may be rubbed steadily on the part, until destruction of texture is effected to the desired extent. Or a portion is laid on, and retained by plaster; which, at the same time^ is made to protect the surrounding integument which Ave wish to leave uninjured. Or a sHght incision is made; and into that is inserted a portion of paste, composed of equal parts of the potass and quick lime. In any way, an eschar or slough is formed; it separates, by the process of ulceration; and a suppurating sore is exposed, on its detachment. This sore may be kept discharging, by stimulating applications ; either constantly or occasionally employed. Or it may be permitted to heal of its own accord; reappHcation of the caustic, in the same or another part, being subsequently made, if necessar3^ During separation of the slough, a poultice is applied; afterwards, the water-dressing. If healing is to be opposed, some irritant is employed ; such as the Unguentum Tartratis Antimonii, or the Unguentum Sabinse. When we wish the evacuant effect chiefly, we keep the original issue permanently discharging: when we desire to mingle active counter-irrita- tion with copious evacuation, we prefer a succession of eschars—bringing repeated inflammatory accessions externally, as well as maintaining purulent discharge. The Actual Cautery stands highest in the list of evacuant counter- irritants. In former times, it was in much request by the practical surgeon ; forming an invariable part of his armamentarium in daily use; and, at the hospital visit, uniformly found glowing in the furnace, ready for its accustomed function. But, now-a-days, it is often supplanted, haj)pily and humanely, by milder and not less eff"ectual means. We should be very unwilling to depart in any way from the axiom, " Ad extremes morbos, extrema remedia." Let us act up to, and yet not exceed its rule.