556 DIAGNOSIS OF DISLOCATION. tempting motion, the bones are found entire in their continuity; the head moving obediently with the shaft. No crepitus is felt; but there may be a simulation—of a soft, sloppy, oozy character; Avholly distinct from the dry, rougli, crepitus of fracture, and never to be mistaken by an experienced hand or ear. Sometimes, however, there is an obscure and true crepitus on the sur- face of the part; from move- ment of osseous scales Avliich may have been torn off the muscular or tendinous inser- tions. Nerves may be com- pressed or torn across; and numbness, or complete local paralysis, will ensue. Compression is more frequent than lacei-ation; and, consequently, temporary numbness is more common than com- plete loss of power. Or, again, a certain nervous branch may be torn, while the principal nervous trunks are but temporarily inconvenienced; and while the limb gene- rally may recover its nervous influence, immediately on reduction, one part may remain deficient,"'either for a time or permanently. Thus, in dislocation of the shoulder, the circumflex nerve is apt to be seriously injured ; causing paralysis of the deltoid. On simple extension being made, the proper lengtli of the limb is not restored, as in fracture. This is effected only by energetic extension, producing reduc- tion ; and, M'hen effected, the limb remains of its due ^proportions ; there being no reproduction of displace- ment by muscular action, on mere cessation of exten- sion, as in fracture. Usually, also, there is an obvious change of relative position; affecting not only the part, but the whole limb. In the common dislocation of the hip, for example, not only is the trochanter major changed from its normal relative position, but also the toes and limb are turned remarkably inwards. And this change of relative position cannot be altered by gentle manipulation, as in fracture; but only after reduction; and then the restoration is permanent. It is obviously of the highest importance, that in suspected lux;ition our diagnosis should be prompt and accurate. An immediate and care- ful, determuied, yet gentle examination is therefore to be made; if pos- sible, before either inflammatory or bloody swelling has ensued. The sooner we determine the nature of the accident, and the sooner suitable Fig. 222. Dislocation of the shoulder. The flattening shewn at a. The right shoulder is normal. Fig. 223. Dislocation of the elbow ; shewing preternatural fulness in front, below the natural fold of flexure of the elbow.