96G HEKNIA OF THE LUNG. the parietes open to protrusion ; 3. Consecutive, following fracture of a rib, or perforation of the chest's wall by abscess; 4. Bjjontaneous, pro- trusion taking place through an intercostal space, during the exertion of coughing, or througli the natural apertures at the root of the neck beside the large blood-vessels. The intercostal spaces where this occurrence has most frequently been observed, are those between the seventh, the eighth, and ninth ribs, at their anterior extremity. When slowly formed, the protruded part acquires a sac from the pleura costalis ; and, from a small beginning, may come to be of great size—its dimensions greatest during forcible expiration. Auscultation reveals nothing in inspiration; but during forced expiration an intense vesicular murmm- is heard, similar to that of normal inspiration, and sometimes accompanied by a kind of crepitant rale. At the same time, too, an impulse is given to the hand, and the " vesicular rustling" may be felt as well as heard. In the traumatic form, reduction is to be effected, if, as will usually be the case, the portion of lung be recently protruded and in a fit state for replacement. Otherwise, it has been the usual practice to remove it by incision. K left to itself, the part becomes of a dark colour", which has been mistaken for sphacelation. But it is probably not of so serious a nature, as no real strangulation occurs; and on this account, especially if adherent to the margin of the wound, the protrusion had better be left alone. In the other forms, the protrusion is reduced, and a firm compress and bandage worn continuously to support the thoracic parietes at the weakened part. Bruise of the Thorax. This, when confined to the walls of the cavity, constitutes a very common, painful, but not serious injury, requiring only that as complete repose as is possible should be afforded to the injured side. This is best effected by means of the binder applied as for fracture of the ribs. Con- siderable anxiety in cases of such injury may, however, be excited in the mind of both practitioner and patient, by a doubt as to the presence of fracture of the ribs, or consecutive pleurisy. In some cases it is impos- sible to make a differential diagnosis between fracture of the ribs and bruise of the chest, especially when the injury has been a direct one, and inflicted posteriorly near the angle of the ribs ; fortunately, therefore, the treatment of both injuries is much the same. By a consideration of the state of the pulse, and by auscultation, all doubt as to the presence of pleurisy should be easily set at rest. Fortunately, at the present day, large depletory bleeding does not constitute an essential part of the treat- ment of pleurisy; as there can be no doubt that, in former times, many patients sufiering from nothing more than bruise of the thoracic walls, were most unnecessarily subjected to copious general blood-lettings. In young children, or sometimes even in adults, serious injuries may be inflicted upon the thoracic contents by a crusliing force which does not fracture any of the bones. The nature of the injury, its mode of infliction, and the symptoms of collapse which attend or follow upon the accident, are sure to indicate the presence of such serious complications.