EXTIEPATION OF THE UPPER JAW. 75G attachment. In operating, then, in these cases, it is sometimes possible to effect complete removal of the disease, leaving intact the orbital plate and malar process ; and when tliis is possible, the result, as far as appearance goes, is infinitely better than when the whole bone has been removed. In some cases, however, the tumour is developed in connec- tion with the periosteum of the maxilla, and grows simultaneously froia every surface of the bone, and within the antrum. The osteocephaloma is in most cases of malignant nature from tl first, and has extended beyond the limits of the superior maxilla befon any considerable prominence has appeared externally. The tuniom towards the cheek may be yet trifling, while the mouth and fauces a; completely occupied, and the base of the cranium hopelessly involved. The system, too, is early affected by the malignant cachexia. In such cases, we cannot—by excision of the superior maxilla, the palatine bones, and the malar—^hope to take away the whole of the tumour; a poi- tion remains, deep-seated and inaccessible; should the patient not di from the shock and loss of blood during the operation, reproductioi of the tumour occurs, with a soft, fungated, and bleeding mass occu pying the mouth; and the fatal result is in such cases only precipi tated by interference. In short, while we may perform excision o the upper jaw with the best prospect of success, at any period of tli case, in osteosarcoma; we ought to refrain from operation in all ex amples of osteocephaloma, excepting those in wliich we are satisfied tha the disease is only commencing, and, as yet, limited to the bone ii which it began. Such cases are, however, very rare. Any enlargemeii of the root of the nose, or obstruction of the nostril on the affected sidi especially if it has appeared at an early stage of the disease, and h been accompanied by the appearance of a vascular polypus in the cavit} attended with repeated attacks of hemorrhage, or where the eyeball ; protruded by a tumour with extensive attachments and of soft elast' consistency, should be considered as insuperable obstacles to the succes ful performance of the operation. In any case of doubt, the extent ( the disease, posteriorly, should be carefidly examined by the finger ca ried upwards behind the soft palate, so as to estimate the condition the sphenoid and temporal bones. Extirpation of the Superior Maxilla. The patient, before the days of chloroform, was seated firmly on chair, but when chloroform is given, should recline on a table with tl head and shoulders elevated so as to facilitate the manipulations of tl surgeon, and so turned as to favour the outward escape of blood. Eve- care must be taken to prevent the main risk, namely, asphyxia by acc mulation of blood in the air passages. The tooth or teeth having been extracted at the point where secti of the alveolar process is intended to be made, the incision by access is gained to the tumour may either be carried fi'om the inner Cc thus of the eye, over the nasal process of the superior maxilla, down the free margin of the upper lip, or to the angle of the mouth; or ^ lip may be divided in the mesial line, and the incision carried into