292 TREATMENT OF CARIES. 80 by interstitial cliaugo ; then disintegration and suppuration of tliis. From the ultimately open condition of the abscess, the state of ulcor necessarily results; and the cavity of the ulcer is more or less occupied with masses of a lardaceous character. The soft parts present the usual appearances of a scrofulous sore ; and the system, both before and during the progress of the local disease, shews the ordinary signs of strumous cachexy ; latterly aggravated by more or less of hectic. During the suppurative stage, irritative fever is not unlikely to be present. Causes.—As already stated, Caries may be primary ; or secondary, an originally simple ulcer having so degenerated. Sometimes the bone is not the texture first involved. Infiltration and suppuration, tuber- cular or not, may have occurred in the soft textures ; and thence disease may have extended to the neighbouring bone. Or the disease, com- mencing in the encrusting articular cartilages in the periosteum, may implicate the bone. Or an intractable ulcer of the soft parts may come to implicate the subjacent osseous structure; as in lupus. By some, the affection of bone which follows on the truly malignant ulcer or tumour of soft parts is termed caries ; but unjustly. It is a truly malignant or cancerous ulcer; just as different from true caries, as open cancer is from a simply weak or irritable sore. In the tubercular caries, scrofula is of course to be considered as the ^-^scj^rs*.;) predisposing cause; any slight external injury may serve for the excit- ing. SyphiHs may in- duce ulceration of the cranial and other bones; the poison often seeming to enact the part of both predispos- ing and exciting cause. And the same may be said of mercury ; per- haps with greater truth—at least in those cases in which that mineral has been given both sakelessly and in profusion. An unfortunate conjimc- tion of the two poisons — mercu- rial and venereal—in a scrofulous system, is the parent of the worst, and not least frequent forms of ulceration. Treatment.—Prevention is obviously the paramount indication. "With this view, if symptoms of inflammatory interstitial change be present in a part, our attention will be directed to the arrest of this ; by rest, counter- irritation, and constitutional care. If a simple abscess or ulcer occur on tlie surface of bone, it will be our object to effect the healing of this as rapidly as possible ; in order to prevent irritation. AVhen mere ostitis is present and demands our aid, we shall treat it actively yet warily; actively, in order to arrest the inflammatory process, ere yet the untoward Fig. 116. Mercurio-Sypliilitic disease of tlie skuli. a, A portion detached, in tlie form of sequestrum. I'iK. IIG.