GANGR/ENA SENILIS. U2 by symptoms of arterial obstruction. And when not so accompanied, but apparently induced by simple general debility, incidental to advanced years, and perhaps aggravated by casualties to which every age is liable— it may occur Avith or without inflammatory intervention. Circulation and vital ^o-wev may gradually and simply cease ; or the latter is over- borne by accession of the inflammatory process. Wlien calcareous de- generation or other cause of arterial obstruction does exist, there is a similar alternative of events ; the gangrene may be inflammatory or not; acutely painful, or comparatively painless. In practice, perhaps the most important division of this form of mortification, is into that which is preceded and accompanied by the inflammatory process, and that which is not. Tor, to the variety of cause, ought the mode of treatment to be accommodated. The accompanying inflammatory process is always of rather a low type ; the part, of enfeebled power, being not only easily overcome by such, but really incapable of assuming a process of liigh intensity. In consequence, the term Inflammatio dehilis is often appilied. Or the inflammatory and non-inflammatory forms may be blended. The latter may seize on one or more toes; converting them, simply and quietly, into black and shrivelled eschars. After a time the mortification ceased to extend upwards. As usual, an efi'ort is then made by ISTature, to throw off the dead and noxious parts ; and this, we know, can be effected only in one way, by inflammatory change and idceration. The process is accordingly assumed, at the living margin ; and heat, redness, swelling, pain, appear there. But the part has no suflEicient power of control; the desired result of ulceration and suppuration is quickly over- passed ; and mortification ensues. The inflammatory has become en- grafted on the simple form; and proceeds rapidly, with much pain and constitutional disturbance. It would seem as if the attempt towards arrest and separation were being constantly made, and never with success ; on the contrary, accelerating the destructive progress. Thus, then, we may have senile gangrene throughout unattended with pain, redness, swelling, or other signs of the inflammatory process ; ex- cepting, ultimately, at the line of successful separation. Or, from the beginning, these are present; and continue imtil either arrest of the disease, or death of the patient ensue. Or the pain, heat, and redness, though at first absent, may supervene ; and then continue of an aggravated character. The disease is most liable to occur in males, of the higher ranks ; who have indulged, freely and habitually, in the pleasures of the table—all the more Hkely, if organic disease of the heart or aortic valves be present. And the most frequent form, is that which is preceded and attended by the inflammatio dehilis. The original description by Mr. Pott merits quota- tion. He calls it " that particular kind of mortification, which, begin- ning at the extremity of one or more of the small toes, does, in more or less time, pass on to the foot and ankle, and sometimes to a part of the leg ; and, in spite of all the aid of physic and surgery, most commonly destroys the patient." Usually "the patients feel great uneasiness through the whole foot and joint of the ankle, particularly in the night, even before these parts shew any marks of distemper, or before there is