1109 CimONIC CYSTITIS. some other affection ; of gleet; of stricture ; of enlarged prostate ; of stone in the bladder; of hemorrhoids, or other disease of the rectum • of renal irritation. Sometimes, however, it is idiopathic. Micturition is fi-equent and painful, and the urine contains much viscid mucus. Often the recipient vessel seems almost entirely filled with mucus, thick, glutinous, and very adherent to the bottom At first, it is greyish and streaked ; the strealcs dependent on phosphate of lime; afterwards it becomes brown, ammoniacal, and intensely foetid. Not unfrequently there is admixture of pus; sometimes of blood. The mucous membrane is thickened and congested ; it may ulcerate; the muscular coat is hyper- trophied, and may sacculate; the kidneys are sooner or later involved. By- ulceration, it has happened that a communication between the bladder and rectum has been formed. Also, the fundus has become perforated into the sigmoid flexure of the colon; constituting an entero-vesical fistula. The system is always affected more or less. And this is the diagnostic between catarrh and mere irritabihty of the bladder. In the latter, the system is comparatively free; in the former, it is always in- volved, and in general seriously. In treatment little benefit need be looked for, unless the obvious cause, when it exists, be removed. Stricture must be cured ; stone must be taken away ; the rectum must be restored to a healthy state. Disease of the kidney and of the prostate may be paUiated, but is not always curable. For the disease itself, opium is of great service ; allaying irritation, and lulling inflammatory excitement. The buchu, pareira, and uva ursi, with mineral acids, are useful, as in alkaline urine from other causes. Eegimen is generous, rather than otherwise ; to support the system. There is no tolerance of either purging or blood-letting. Iron often is of great use ; and perhaps the best form is the tincture of the muriate. From a combination of benzoic acid vdth. copaiba rehef sometimes results. And counter-irritation is often of the greatest service ; on the hypogastrium, perineum, or over the sacrum—the last the pre- ferable situation—unless, indeed, there be already too much irritation there, in the form of bed-sore. In severe cases, the actual cautery may be warrantable ; to a very limited extent, however ; there being no tolerance in the system of the exhaustion and irritation of a large sup- purating surface. The following are some of the principal remedies :—Opium in full doses, and repeated, so as to overcome pain and irritation. If opium disagree, hyoscyamus may be substituted. Of the mineral acids, the dilute muriatic and nitric are usually preferred ; in doses of eight or ten drops, gradually increased. The pareira is given in decoction. Half an ounce of the root, in three pints of water, is boiled down to one pint; and of this from eight to twelve ounces may be taken daily ; or it may be given in the form of extract, to the extent of twenty or thirty grains daily. Of the buchu and uva ursi, in the form of strong infusion, ounce doses are given three or four times a day. The buchu, however, seems sometimes to act more efficiently in the form of powder, administered by being suspended in water or mucilage. The tincture of the nmriate of iron is administered, in doses of from eight to fifteen drops twice daily. A drachm of benzoic acid, with half an ounce of copaiba, made into an