1139 TREATMENT OF GONORRHCEA. though alarming to the patient, often requires no treatment; being re- garded as a salutary occurrence, auxiliary in the cure, and frequently followed by a complete cessation of the discharge ; if excessive, it may be restrained by the application of cold, or by pressure, as already de- scribed. CEdema is relieved by fomentation and poultices. Bubo requires fomentation and rest; and its first acuteness over, the external appli- cation of iodine, or a solution of the nitrate of silver, is likely to obtain resolution. Abscess threatening in the penis, or in the perineum, is opposed by increased and concentrated antiphlogistics; if matter have formed, an incision cannot be made too early for evacuation. Affections of the prostate and bladder require their suitable treatment, already noticed. Small cold enemata, containing a moderate quantity of lauda- num, are sometimes very useful. And it is well to avoid these attacks, by doing nothing heroically, in the way of injection, after the gonorrhoea is fairly established. With some, no doubt, strong injections are still in vogue, even at an advanced period of the case. But, in our opinion, they are warrantable only at the very first, and only in exceptional cases, as already stated; and should consist only of nitrate of silver. Gout and rheumatism are met by their peculiar treatment. And, ob- viously, it is important to remove the tendency to uric deposit as speedily as possible; otherwise the passing of this cannot fail to maintain, and probably increase, the urethral excitement. Thus, according to the ordinary principles of surgery, would we treat gonorrhoea; and with a good hope of success ; if the indications regard- ing regimen and rest be fully carried out—a difficulty in many cases, as already stated. But there is no disguising the fact, that not unfrequently the disease proves quite intractable; as if determined to run its own course, regardless of the means employed—unchecked, almost unmiti- gated and unmodified. In such cases, some peculiarity of constitution will generally be discovered; scrofula, gout, or extreme irritability of system. And for such difficulties, no general rules of treatment can be laid down. Each must be met by what seems most suitable under the circumstances ; always avoiding undue activity of practice ; and pre- ferring rather that the disease should run its own course, than that by unfortunate interference more serious afi'ections of the prostate, bladder, testicle, or general system, should be induced.* In general a tonic treatment is required ; specially the preparations of iron and quinine; and with the latter nux vomica may sometimes be successfully combined. Bougies are by some recommended; but we would move them alto- gether from gonorrhoea to gleet. Their use in the former affection is extremely apt to over-stimulate, causing reaccession of the disease. In gleet, however, they are very serviceable, by obviating any tendency to contraction in the urethra, and removing the congested state of the lining membrane ; and sometimes by means of a bougie, the citrine or some other stimulant ointment may be beneficially applied to the anterior part of the membrane. In obstinate cases, with irritability of the pos- * The length of time during which an obstinate gonorrhoea may persist is some- times great; but scarcely so extreme as that mentioned by one eminent modern authority, who gravely tells us of claps contracted at the peace of Amiens in 1800, Vjeing still running in 1840 !—Lancet, No. 1263, p. 510,