33G ENTOZOA IN BONE. of crackling when the thin osseous plates composing paiis of the sac yield under pressui-c, and by more or less obscure pulsation or throbbing felt by both patient and i^ractitioner in the tumour itself. Pulsating Tumours of Bone. Certain enlargements of bone are observed to be endowed witli pul- sation ; this varying from a mere thrill to the strong impulse of an aneurism. The cause is various. It may be from the inherent structure of the tumour, as in erectile tumour of bone, and osteoaneurism. Or the nutrient arteries of the bone may be preternaturally enlarged. Or it may be in consequence of an osteocephaloma overlaying a large artery, or being permeated by one or more, and so receiving their impulse; thus simulating the aneurismal state, as tumours of the soft parts do in like circumstances. Sometimes, nay often, bruit accompanies pulsation. And, in consequence, accurate diagnosis may be rendered very difficult. It is apparently most distinct where the bulk of the tumour is supported by dense bone, so that the communicated pulsation is reflected, as it were, entirely in one direction. Lately a patient was sent to me, said to be affected with popliteal aneurism. The tumour proved to be medul- lary enlargement of the lower end of the femur, possessed of very remarkable pulsation—and this depending not so much on the vascularity of the mass itself, as on the play of enlarged articular arteries exterior to it. Entozoa in Bone. Hydatids have not unfrequently formed in the cancellous texture of bone. Under their accumulation the walls of the bone expand, so as to form a tumour of greater or less size, and of varied form. And then, attenuation and deficiency of the parietes taking place, the hydatids may escape into the superimposed soft tissues; causing suppuration there, and subsequent discharge of themselves along with the purulent secre- tion. In a flat bone, such as the cranium, removal of the disease may thus be obtained, with the aid of surgical interference. In the long bones, the occurrence is likely to lead to fracture, under very inauspicious circumstances. Treatment, accordingly, wiU vary according to the extent and site of the disease. The bone may be exposed by incision, the hydatids and altered osseous tissue may be scooped and gouged away, and the parts may afterwards granulate and heal kindly. Or it may be necessary at once to proceed to amputation.