17 SYMPTOMS OF INFLAMMATOBY FEVER. increased fulness, as if the vessel were itself enlarged, and held a larger quantity of blood at each impulse; the heart is acting not only more rapidly but more powerfully than in health; the circulation is truly accelerated * Such are the ordinary characteristics of the inflammatory pulse ; frequency, hardness, thrilling, fulness. The three first are seldom if ever absent; but the fom-th may be wanting, and the pulse may be small instead of fuU. This modification is chiefly observed durmg serious inflammatory afi"ections of important internal organs; more especially those situated in the abdominal region. And hence it is in practice sometimes termed the abdominal pulse; the artery resembling a hard thriUing thread, rather than a cord. Tliis pulse always exists in con- nection" with great nervous depression, and debilitated though rapid carcUac action; to which circumstance its smalhiess is probably due. In afi'ections of the brain, on the other hand, producing coma, the pulse is commonly slow and full. There are idiosyncrasies also to be taken into account. The pulse may be natiually slow or rapid—50 or 90 ; and this must be allowed for, when previous inquiry has satisfied us that the patient is the subject of such peculiarity.—3. The Respiratory. Eespi- ration is quickened ; the breath seems to be hotter than usual; and an oppression is felt in the chest.—4. Tlie Digestive. The tongue may vary in its appearance. It may be loaded, white, and moist; or the edges and central tip may be red and dry; the latter is probably the more frequent combination. In peculiar, and as they are called typhoid cases, where depression is great, and the nervous system much engaged, the tongue is dry, and of a brown colour in the centre. There is thirst, usually very troublesome, with nausea, loss of appetite, sometimes vomit- ing, and often tenderness of the epigastrium; the bowels are consti- pated.—5. The Secerning. The secretions and excretions in general are materially diminished. The bowels, we have seen, are constipated— mainly from want of mucous secretion from their lining membrane ; the skin is hot and dry; the mouth is parched; the urine is scanty, high coloured, generally acid, sparingly aqueous, the urea and uric acid in- creased, the chlorides diminished or absent.—6. Tlie Nutritive. Diges- tion is interrupted; so is assimilation; as the fever advances, so does emaciation ; and strength is more and more prostrate. Such are the ordinary symptoms of inflammatory fever. The more intense the local process, and the more important the part involved, the more rapidly and formidably are they developed. They also vary ac- cording to the natural temperament of the patient. They may remit; nay, often do ; at one time increased, at another mitigated ; exacerbation usually vesperal, remission matutinal. But they never undergo an actual intermission ; therein, resembling the local symptoms of the malady. Having reached a certain point, the symptoms may decline, like the local change which caused them. The pulse becomes less hard, less full, and less frequent; the heat and thirst diminish ; strength and appetite begin to come again ; and the secretions re-appear. Not unfrequently, * Mere frequency of pulse is not a proof of increased rapidity of circulation ; the heart's action may be weak as well as quick ; it often is so (but not inflanimatorily), propelling the blood more slowly than in health. To expedite the flow, it must act not only more quickly, but more forcibly than in the normal state.