339 ACUTE SYNOVITIS. the symptoms, both constitutional and local ; and a succession of rigors usually ushers in the exacerbation. Tever rises higher, and the system is proportionally more oppressed ; swelling is larger and more tense ; the pain, heat, and feeling of tightness are increased, accompanied with a deep-seated throbbing ; and each pulse seems still further to augment the pain. The superficial swelling becomes of a more urgent character ; being the result, now, of a higher grade of disease. Eluctuation Avithin the joint also changes its type ; and affords to the experienced touch a toler- ably certain indication of pus. At one or more parts, the swelling be- gins to point; the matter now approaching the surface, through the intervening textures. Ultimately tlie integument, at the prominent points, either gives way or is opened artificially ; the matter is discharged; and the joint's cavity is exposed. For a short time, immediately subse- quent to evacuation, the more urgent symptoms may subside ; from the relief of tension. But very soon, a second aggravation generally ensues ; even greater than that which followed the first formation of matter. A fresh inflammatory attack, as it were, seizes on the interior of the joint; and the destructive process ranges anew, accompanied by violent consti- tutional disturbance, perhaps now of the irritative rather than of the inflammatory type. This, in its turn, is not unlikely to give way to hectic ; the whole joint having become a prey to the worst inflammatory results, and the system beginning to sink beneath its burden. Such is the nature of acute synovitis ; when its whole course is run. •But it is to be understood that, at any period of the process, the disease may cease to advance and begin to subside; spontaneously, or from, treatment; and that the symptoms will vary accordingly. The disease may originate without any apparent Cause. More fre- quently it is the result of injury; as bruise, or wound. In the latter case, unless union be eff"ected by simple adhesion, synovitis is inevitable. For when the wound inflames, a portion of the synovial capsule inevi- tably partakes in that process ; and, as already stated, it is a peculiarity •of that tissue that the inflammatory process, attacking a part, quickly spreads over the whole. Whence a plain and practical inference is to be drawn; that in the treatment of wounds of joints, it is of the greatest moment to moderate the inflammatory process, and ensure simple ad- hftsion. Rheumatism is a frequent predisposing cause of synovitis ; the local disease being modified by the specific diathesis. And during the pre- valence of this diathesis, a very slight exciting cause siiffices ; or even this latter may be altogether wanting. The suppurative stage is seldom if ever reached, either in this form of the disease, or in that which is at- tendant on gout. Exposure to cold often induces sjoiovitis ; even in persons previously of the most robust health ; but most readily, of course, in those having a rheumatic tendency. And mercury, among its many evil results, often remote, is an undoubted, frequent, and prolific parent of some of the worst forms of synovitis ; at least, if not both predisposing and exciting «au8e, it is certainly the former. 'Jlie joints most liable to be attacked, are those of the extremities ; most exposed to external violence, and to atmospheric vicissitude; the