CHAPTER V. MOETIFICATIOK Mortification is the general term which includes the whole process of death in a part, from its commencement to completion. It is sub- divided into Gangrene and Sphacelus; the former denoting the process of djang ; the latter, the result of this, or actual death of the part. Gangrene being about to occur, as a result of the inflammatory process, the signs of this affection become modified. The redness passes into a dark and livid hue ; for circulation has ceased, and the blood is becom- ing decomposed. Circulation having been arrested, so is the formation of new matter, and the swelling grows less tense. On the surface, how- ever, effusion of serum may take place ; and that profusely. All vital fimction decaying, pain and heat remarkably abate, and often cease sud- denly. Sensibility gradually leaves the part. Just before, it could not be pressed on, however slightly, without aggravation of pain, previously severe ; now, even rude handling may be borne with impunity. NutriT tion, the source of animal heat, having ceased, temperature necessarily decreases, and usually with rapidity. The part contains much inflamma- tory product, chiefly fluid ; putrescence increases both softening and moisture ; and, as the result of chemical change, an offensive odour is more or less freely exhaled. The surface is usually studded with plilyc- tence; that is, elevations of the scarf-skin by putrid serum; readily distinguished fi'om the dark vesicles filled with bloody serum which not unfrequently attend on simple bruise, by observing that the epidermis is detached from the cutis not only at the elevated spot, but all around j and that, consequently, the phlyctena may be made to slide from place to place, by shght pressure. Besides, the phlyctena is not attended with heat, pain, and tension, as is the mere vesicle ; while it is associated with all the symptoms of advancing gangrene. When this is limited to the part originally inflamed, the discoloration is circumscribed, and may have its border even abrupt; but when the disease, and injury which led to it, have both been severe—when the power of both part and system have been brought low—and when, in consequence, gangrene is to spread— discoloration is gradually lost in the surrounding skin, and dark streaks are seen shooting diffusedly upwards in the limb. Sphacelus, or completion of the gangrene, is indicated by the part having become completely cold and insensible. It is slu-unk in its dimen- sions, soft and flaccid, almost pulpy to the touch ; and it crepitates dis- tinctly, containing not only liquid but gaseous contents—the result of putrescence. All vital function has ceased, and chemical change reigna paramount. The colour is usually dark when the part is exposed to