229 \TDNOUS IIEMOKRHAGE. on the original wound, or not, as circumstances may seem to indicate— and on the cardiac side of the branches which anastomose with the main trunk, beyond the site of hemorrhage, when the bleeding comes from the distal extremity of the deligated vessel. Venous Hemorrhage. Venous blood, as contrasted with arterial, flows in a dull and dark stream; but, by continuance, not less capable of perilling life through syncope. Pressure is the general and preferable means for its arrest; along with removal of all obstruction to venous return. In amputation, for example, it sometimes happens, that after the arterial jets have been secured, dark streams continue to issue somewhat profusely from the venous orifices. Our first care is, to see that all pressure from above has been removed ; whether by tourniquet, or by the fingers of an assistant. Such removal often suffices, of itself, to stanch the flow. If not, let pressure be employed; either directly on the venous orifices, or by approximation and compression of the lips of the wound. After a few minutes, let the pressure be gently removed; and then, usually, bleeding will be found to have ceased. If not, let a compress of lint be applied to the bleeding point or points; graduated, secured, and main- tained, as if for an artery similarly circumstanced ; only with less inten- , sity of pressure; a comparatively slight amount of this, if direct and I accurate, being sufficient to restrain the flow. By this means, the venous coats are field in undisturbed contact; plastic formation takes place from them, and from the surrounding parts ; and by it—becoming I thoroughly organized—the venous canal is efi"ectually and permanently I closed. By every means in our power, we ought to avoid deligation of a veiu. For, as will afterwards be seen, a form of phlebitis ensues, which, especially in its higher grade, is apt to spread ; and, therefore, it need be no matter of surprise to find the very worst results of that disease, I supervening on the application of ligature to a vein. Such risks are un- doubtedly greatest when the hgature is applied to a wounded or divided veiu in the continuity of a limb, and when the venous circulation con- tinues by other channels to flow past the site of deligation. The risks are least when the deligation is practised on a stump after amputation ; and when the coagulum which results extends but a short distance from the point of ligature. Some pathologists, no doubt, look upon accidents from this cause as little else than fanciful; and some practitioners have no scruple in tying veins as readily as they do arteries, not anticipating damage or danger thereby ; notwithstanding, we think it well to err (if we do err) on the safe side, by avoiding such source of injury—all the raoxQ as venous hemorrhage can always and certainly be restrained with- out ligaturing the coats of the vein. It may happen that no accident ensues; that the ligature ulcerates its way out ; that plastic formation extends around; that the vein is permanently occluded ; and that the inflammatory process does not range \ to an undue extent. |j The only circumstances which demand deligation of a vein, arc those