1110 IlUilTABLE BLADDEK. emulsion with camphor mixture, may be taken in ounce doses, in the course of forty-eight hours. The mikler cases yield to such remedies. The more severe prohably do not. In them, other measures must be had recourse to ; and the most promising is injection of the bladder—never to be employed, how- ever, except in aggravated cases, and after ordinary means have failed ; otherwise it may itself prove the source of no inconsiderable injury. It is also essential that no accute or subacute exacerbation be present; the disease must be thoroughly chronic. The injection is at first detergent and soothing ; water, or a decoction of poppies. Then a mixture of ten minims of dilute nitric acid with two ounces of distilled water is thrown in, and allowed to remain about thirty seconds. In two days the injec- tion is repeated, and the dose of acid is generally increased ; by and by the injection may be given daily—not oftener.* In extremely chronic cases, the bladder may be thoroughly washed out by means of a double catheter, to the main orifice of which a Higginson's barrel-syringe is adapted, and by means of which a strong and continuous current is established in the viscus. Should at any time pain or even uneasi- ness foUow the use of this means, however, the practice must be dis- continued. In very obstinate cases, it may perhaps be allowable to make a cautious trial of the application of nitrate of silver, in substance, to the mucous coat, as proposed by M. Lallemand. The bladder having been emptied, the porte-caustique is passed ; and the stilette having been pushed forwards, a momentary contact of the nitrate of silver with the lining membrane is permitted. The instrument is then withdrawn ; and a portion of the caustic, dissolved in mucus, pervades the viscus. This is to be done very warily; and the after consequences must be anxiously watched, lest inflammatory mischief ensue. Imtdble Bladder. In healthy states of the urine and bladder, the stimulus of the former operates on the latter only according to quantity ; a certain amount of fluid having accumulated, an uneasy sensation is felt, and the bladder contracts in obedience to that stimulus, seeking relief thereby. If the urine be abnormally acrid, however; if the mucous membrane of the bladder be morbidly sensitive ; or, more particularly, if both these states exist together—the ordinary stimulus of the urine is found to be intolerable, and frequent, uneasy micturition results, constituting the afiection termed Irritable Bladder. Pathologically, it difiers from any form of cystitis, in depending on irritation, and not on the inflam- matory process ; there is not necessarily any structural change in the coats of the bladder. Practically it is known by the absence of grave constitutional disorder, as well as by the absence of profuse secretion of vitiated mucus—the prominent characteristics of Catarrhus Vesicaj. No doubt, however, these afi'ections may and do not unfrequently coa- lesce ; the irritation inducing an inflammatory process, and becoming * For further details of the lohcra vesiccc, see Monthly Jouraal, May 1850, p. 482.