42 ANTIPHLOGISTICS. selves, and at the cxponso of comparatively little pain, annoyance, delay, or danger to the patient. Whereas, let the all-important preliminary step he either neglected or imperfectly secnred, and the most powerful remedial moans may he unceasingly employed, with little or no avail A patient applies for rehef, on account of nascent conjmictivitis, caused hy the lodgment of foreign matter on the surface of that membrane. lie- move the particle of dust or sand at once ; and fomentation, a shade, a purge, careful diet, with perhaps a few leeches, will, in the great majority of cases, suffice to dissipate even the most formidable of such affections, within a few days at the utmost. But, on the other hand, leave the foreign matter imbedded in the inflaming part; and leeches innumerable ; bleeding from the arm, or from the temporal artery, once and again ; blisters in rapid succession; purges ; antimonials; mercmy pushed to profuse ptyalism, and perhaps repeated—in short, ruin to the system, by severity of treatment, may be enforced and endured, without arresting the disease, or preventing loss of vision by irreparable change of structure. Tliis is not mere fancy. Cases are on record of eyes ha\dng become pearly-white and sightless, notwithstanding the induction of anaemia, dropsy, and mercurial disease, by the attempts to save; all the Avhile, some small particle of foreign matter lodging undistui'bed, and probably unsuspected, under cover of the upper eyelid—the simple removal of which might have preserved both sight and system for the patient, as Avell as credit and conscience for the jDractitioner. Our fii'st duty is to inquire carefully for the exciting cause. If already removed, good and well; if still in operation, we are to jirocure its abstraction as speedily and effectually as may be in our power. And then we are in a favourable position to proceed with the directly remedial means—those wliich^ being opposed to advance and persistence of the inflammatory process, are termed Anti2Mogistics. The most im- portant of these is Blood-letting; and the blood may be taken, either from the part, or from the system at large. 1. Oeneral Blood-letting.—In the outset it is to be observed, that this is not always—or, indeed, usually—necessary now-a-days. It is a sj)oliative remedy, of the highest class ; and therefore never to be had recourse to, unless circu.mstances declare it either imperatively demanded, or at least highly expedient. There is every reason to fear that this little operation is still too frequently employed;—urmecessarily, when it might have been weU superseded by other and more gentle measures;— unwarrantably, when actually no benefit, but sad injury, has flowed from and with the " purple stream." It is a very easy matter to take away blood, and thereby induce debility; while to undo that result is in most cases difiicult, and may be impossible. Congestions, seroiis eff'usions, bloodless skin and mucous membrane, atrophied and all but palsied muscles, a withered frame and an enfeebled mind, may remain, silent, yet steadfast and truth-declaring witnesses of the error in practice. On the other hand, the j^ractitioner will be equally culpable who refrains from this operation, when the circumstances of the case call plainly and loudly for its performance. And it may bo stated broadly, that general blood- letting is likely to be required, when the inflammatory symj^toms—local, general, or both—are severe; when the part affected is of importance in