927 FRACTURE OF RADIUS AND ULNA. Fracture of hoth Radius and Ulna. Tliis is ordinarily the result of direct violence, but is also occasioned by falls on the palm or back of the hand ; and the fractures consequently are at corresponding points—near cither the middle or the lower third of the forearm. The fragments may be displaced forwards, backwards, or laterally, and rarely pass clear of each other. When this, however, occux-s, the lower fragments usually are placed at right angles with the upper, and occupy the interosseous space both in front and behind, lying between them. Those who believe in muscular displacements have de- scribed pronation of the hand, and approximation of the lower fragments towards each other so as to occupy the interosseous space, by the action of the pronator quadratus ; but tliis displacement towards the interosseous space, which certainly is observed in museum specimens, is really pro- duced by the injudicious application of a roller bandage to the forearm before applying the splints. The deformity of the forearm, and the crepitus which is easily recognised when rectifying it, whether by co- aptation or extension and rotation, sufficiently indicate the nature of the injury. The treatment is, as for single fracture, by long splints, which should be of the same width, and neither broader nor narrower than the forearm. By some, interosseous pads are still employed, with the object of preventing displacement towards the interosseous space. These, how- ever, are, for the reasons already stated, not required. "Were such dis- placement present, the pads would either be injurious from the undue pressure interfering with the circulation of the forearm, or inefficient from being loosely applied, and then by their presence interfering with ithe accurate adjustment of the all important splints. In young persons, both bones not unfrequently give way at tlieir epiphyses; an accident which closely simulates luxation of the carpus. Like fracture of the radius alone, it is usually the result of indirect violence, by a fall on the hand. The radial aspect of the lower frag- ments, with the carpus, is displaced backwards; the ulnar remains in 'fu, or even lies in front; the upper fragment of the radius projects wards the flexor aspect, the upper end of the ulna maintains its posi- ion. Tlie hand usually remains in the middle state between pronation nd supination. Considerable power is required, by extension, or (better) direct pressure, or by bending the wrist and lower part of the forearm A'er the knee, to undo the locking and displacement; and then crepitus emitted. Li treatment, coaptation, having been accomplished by effi- nt extension, is maintained by two splints, as in the other fractures of ■i forearm. It should be remembered that in fractures of both bones casioned by great violence, especially if they have been accompanied ■ considerable displacement, intense inflammatory engorgement is apt ' ensue; and that no fracture is more likely to be followed by gangrene a complication, especially where undue pressure has been employed in .0 use of apparatus. Fracture of the Carpal and Metacarpal Bones. Carpal bones are seldom fractured but by gi-eat and direct force ;