949 TREATMENT OF SPINAL FKACTUliE. these cases, as it interferes with the descent of the diapln-ngm by which alone the patient breathes, and tlius impedes still further, and sometimes fatally^ his respiratory efforts. If, again, the fracture be ahove the origin of fho phrenic nerve—and compression there prove great—respiration will at once cease, causing deatli. There are tln-ee principal sites in which fracture of tlie spine most commonly occurs, from forces producing great bending forwards of the spine. In the neck between the third and seventh vertebrse, in the back generally low down between the eleventh dorsal and second lumbar, in the loins between the fourth lumbar and the sacrum (Malgaigne). Fractiu-e may, however, occur anywhere from direct violence. An almost invariable result of spinal fractm'e, wherever situated, is a deteriorated condition of the urinary secretion, in consequence of which the lining membrane of the bladder, becoming the seat of chronic irri- tation, secretes an altered and increased mucus; copious, foetid, turbid, ammoniacal urine passes away, with sad aggravation of the general dis- order of system. The bowels, too, are not merely distended and sluggisli, but become depraved in the function of their mucous membrane ; the dejections evincing a very vitiated character. Bed-sores are apt to form. The symptoms, continuing and gravescent, frequently terminate in death; or, gradually mitigating, recovery more or less complete ensues. Obviously, the dangers to life are both many and formidable; inflammatory disease in the cord or membranes—attended with sero-fibrinous or puru- lent product, producing disorganization ; secondary affections of the respi- ratory, digestive, and urinary organs ; bed-sores, and general exhaustion. It need not, therefore, excite surprise to find the general average of re- recoveries from fracture of the spine extremely small. When we consider these injuries as occurring in the three regions—cervical, dorsal, and lumbar—we may say that recoveries from fractures rarely or never occur in the first, only occasionally in the second, while in the third, when the first few weeks are overpast without the development of serious mischief, the patient may live for years. The fatal result in the upper part of the spine is usually due to asphyxia, rapidly or more gradually induced ; in the lower, from inflammatory implication of the cord and its membranes, secondary visceral disorder, or general systemic irritation. Spinal fissure may occur, without displacement; and yet may prove fatal, from another cause than injury to the cord. Into the cleft, a por- tion of the membranes may be received and retained; the constriction acts as an uninterrupted exciting cause of inflammatory disease, and fatal inflammatory product or structural change ensue. The case is obscure in its course ; and is likely to be unfortunate in its issue. Treatment of spinal fracture may be reduced to simple indications ; the first of which is, very careful movement of the patient, and adjust- ment on a hard mattress, lest further shifting of the fragments occur. Any reduction of the displacement which is found to exist, or attempts at retention by adaptation of splints, is perfectly useless, as the manipula- tions which would be required to effect their fulfilment are more than likely to inflict a fatal injury on the patient. We confine ourselves to enforcement of absolute quietude, antiphlogistic regimen, and the other