BRUISE OF THE SCALP. 591 lest a false diagnosis be arrived at. The finger, placed firmly on the centre, readily displaces the serous fluid, and may seem to penetrate to some depth; while similar pressure, made at the margins, meets with liard, unyielding resistance—and that at a considerably higher level than luid just been passed by the finger in pursuit of the retreating serum. The careless observer of such things is apt to imagine them undoubted indications of fracture, mth depression, having occurred in the cranium; supposing the hard ring to be the bone in its normal position, with an abrupt broken margin, beneath which a detached portion has been driven down. Attention to three or four circumstances, however, will suffice to undeceive. The symptoms of depressed cranium do not exist. Press firmly on the soft and^' yielding centre ; the subjacent bone will be reached, occupying its normal level. The hard rim of the swelling will l)e found on a higher level than the general calvarium; and, besides, by a Httle firmness of manipulation, if such be deemed necessary, the clot can be displaced somewhat, leaving firm bone beneath. Wliile in frac- ture with depression, the firmer we press upon the hard rim the more distinct will the outline of the fractured margin become. The treatment of such a bruise is conducted on the principles gener- ally appHcable to this description of injury. In certain situations—as directly over known branches of the temporal or occipital arteries— swelling may be in a great measure prevented by moderate pressure being steachly maintained on the cardiac aspect of the implicated vessel; and this incUcation may be further fulfilled, by continuous application of cold to the part, and its immediate vicinity. "When extravasation has taken place in quantity, and both tension and arterial pulsation are pre- sent, there is no necessity at this early period for any interference in the way of opening the sac or ligaturing the vessels. As formerly stated, such meddhng would certainly be followed by suppuration. By the continued use of cold and pressure, the progress of the extravasation will -peedily be checked ; and if inflammatory access is prevented, absorption will by degrees remove every trace of the swelling. The fluid portion of the extravasation is taken up first; the coagulum follows, more tardily. But if an acute inflammatory process shall have occurred, and suppu-' ration formed, free and direct incision must not be withheld. By no other means can diff"use suppuration be prevented, and constitutional dis- order checked. At once lay the part freely open ; turn out the coagulum, and permit all fluids to escape. Shoidd bleeding occur, then compres- sion must be employed to check it; or if the injured vessels admit of I'emg readily seized, ligatures may be employed to secure the bleeding orifices. An unhealthy abscess remains for a time, but duly changes, contracts, and heals ; and the knife is not again required. But, delay incision ; and then the knife is called for, not merely in the bruised part, Imt in the parts adjacent, where the matter is buiTOwing beneath the • xpansion of the occipito-frontahs, giving rise to symptoms both local •ind constitutional, closely allied to those of phlegmonous erysipelas, and uemanding a like activity in local treatment. Constitutional management is not to be neglected. It is obviously ^> groat miportance to avert, or at least to moderate, the accession of an