708 AFFECTIONS OF THE CHOROID AND RETINA. humour, lens, and vitreous body, are perfectly transparent, and afford no visible characters. Affections of the Choroid and Retina. CfJioroiditis, Retinitis, Choroido-iritis, Glaucoma, Ophthalmitis. Although by dissection these affections are capable of classificatioii as different pathological conditions, or at all events as exhibiting differenH degrees and varying situations of the inflammatory process, in the deepo seated textures of the eyeball—yet as the symptoms are exactly the saniu in all, we prefer considering them together, under the name of Glawoma ^ dividing this only into the acute and the chronic. AVhen Acute, symptoms of Glaucoma are pain, excruciatingly severe, seated in tli globe and orbit, and occupying the frontal, nasal, and temporal regioji usually coming on and becoming intensified at night, increased up' pressure, stooping, and motion. The globe feels tense and hard to ti touch, sometimes hke a stone. The pupil, if non-adherent to the capsu. of the lens, becomes fixedly dilated, the lens pushed forwards, the iri of a slate colour, and the anterior chamber diminished in size, or oh! terated by the iris coming in contact with the cornea. Vision is iij paired from the commencement—sometimes destroyed Avithin a fo hours. Bright flashes of light, and black muscae, seem constantly falli): before the eye affected. The cornea loses its natural brillancy, an appears as if its surface was minutely granular. There is more or le. of the sclerotic vascular zone ; obscured, however, by conjunctival co] gestion, and sometimes even by subconjunctival serous effusion. Tl attack is usually sudden, one eye being first affected; but not unfr quently the other is involved within a few days after. Although tli disease usually commences acutely, in many cases dimness of vision, Hj perception of a halo round gas or the flame of a candle, flashes of liglj and presbyopia, precede the attack. The Chronic form always commences with slight dimness of flashes of light, and falling muscre ; and during this stage there may little or no pain in the eye or head. When the pain sets in, more less congestion of the sclerotic appears; the iris, too, generally becor manifestly affected, losing its fibrous markings, assuming a dull sL colour, with radiating veins visible to the naked eye ; the pupil is usua more or less irregularly dilated, unaffected by light, and here and thcJ adherent to the capsule of the lens. Vision by the time these chan|ij have taken j^lace is either gone, or so much impaired that only largej brilliant objects can be seen. Then the lens becomes opaque, asi swoln j of a greyish, greyish-green, ochrey, or orange tint.' The corr i is dim, reflecting a dull, wavy, and irregular image, as if steamed upij the surface; sometimes it is opaque throughout and as if vesicated j,' is also flattened, and its sensibility diminished. The lens and iris tj in close contact with it, so that the anterior chamber is gone. 1^ globe feels hard and tense; the sclerotic is more or less discoloured,* a dusky hue, and streaked with large venous trunks emerging abrupij in the ciliary region.