TREATMENT OF STRICTURE. 1212 certainty that the instrument is in the right route; for we may all the time be merely extending a false passage Avliich exists anterior to the stricture, or fruitlessly pressing against a fold of mucous membrane at the side of the strictured portion of the canal. This process of " vital dilatation," as it has been called—largely employed by Dupuytren, Guthrie, and others—is eli'ected as follows :—Having found a tight and imyielding stricture, which will not, for the time being, permit penetra- tion, even by a very small instrument—provided there be no t?ireatening of retention of urine, or other source of urgency—we lay aside small bougies, and the determination to penetrate, and selecting an instrument of medium size, pass it down to the stricture, and retain it there, pressing upon the stricture, rather than in it, so long as is thought necessary, and the patient's feelings will allow. This is repeated, at the usual intervals. And, after several such, introductions, relaxation will be found gradually advancing, so as to admit first of partial lodgment, and afterwards of complete penetration. No time is lost; and, if properly employed, no risk is incurred. The principle of cure is obviously the same as that of the ordinary use of the instrument.* In the hands of a careless operator, however, there is risk of making way, not along the contracted canal, but through the soft and normal mucous membrane on the exterior of the stricture. Should, at any time, over-excitement—as evidenced by tendency to bleeding, pain, spasm, and discharge—occur in the part, from over-use of the bougie, exposure to wet, fatigue, intemperance—all instrumentation must be desisted from, for a time ; nntil, by rest and antiphlogistic regi- men, a quiet and tractable condition of the canal has been restored. In receiving the bougie, the patient may be either erect or recum- bent. If it be his first experience^of such an operation, the latter posture is preferred; lest faintness occur, as is apt to be the case. After one or more repetitions, in a well-dilated stricture, when such tendency ceases, and no difficulty exists, then the erect posture, if more convenient for both parties, may be preferred. The surgeon, seated in front, passes the instrument with its convexity directed towards the abdomen, down to the suspensory ligament; and then gently depressing the handle, while the instrument is slowly turned half round, this natural obstruc- tion is overpassed. To avoid injury to the canal here, it is well to move the point mainly on the upper surface of the urethi'a. If an opposite course be followed, a fold of the membrane is almost certain to be caught; then rash pressure cannot fail to cause abnormal penetration— and a False Passage is begun. In all cases of tight stricture, or when care and pains are required to coax an instrument through a stricture, the recumbent posture should undoubtedly be preferred; although there are some few cases where the altered position of the pelvis acting upon the membranous portion of the urethra, through the triangular ligament, renders the introduction of an instrument in the erect posture more easy than in the recumbent. The evidences of a false passage being formed are :—The conscious- * To this mode of procedure the term " tunnelling" has sometimes hecn applied; portion after portion of the-stricture being excavated, as it were, until a clear " driftway" has been established. I can vouch for its safety and efficiency.