500 GUNSHOT WOUNDS, the musket "bullet—as well as of individual grajje shot—on the conti'uiy, is not uncommon. When the missile is a round ball discharged from a musket of smooth bore, the aperture made by its entrance is comparatively small in most cases, and with the margins inverted and discoloured; often it appears of much less dimensions than the foreign body which has passed through it; and souietimes it may even simulate the incised character. The aperture of exit, on the contrary, has its margins ragged and everted ; and is usually of larger dimensions than that which marks the entrance. When the injury has been inflicted at " close quarters" the aperture of entrance is comparatively large, has no smoothness in iu edges, and is obviously of a lacerated character; then, too, portions of the wadding are usually impacted in some part of the track; and the surface may be marked by grains of powder. The appearances in wounds produced by conical bullets discharged from rifled lire-arms ("arms of precision") vary materially, according,' to the more or less pointed extremity of the projectile, the force witli which it is travelling, and whether it rotates on its long or on its shor axis on coming in contact with the body. The wound of entrance some- times closely resembles an incision; in other cases it differs little from the wound of exit—both being ragged tears. In the first instance, the conical ball seems to " rifle " through, rotating on its long axis ; in tke latter, travelling with less velocity, or coming obliquely upon the sur- face, it has still sufiicient force to pass through, but rotates on its short axis. Striking obliquely on the surface, a ball of any form, without per- forating, may plough up the superficial textures; the parts being most f injured at the point first struck. The pain of a mere flesh wound is often slight; not more usually ^ than the sensation of receiving a smart blow which benumbs the part; and the patient, if actively engaged, may hardly be aware that he has i sustained injury. If a bone be broken, or a large nerve torn, however, r pain is usually severe ; though cases have frequently occurred in which ^ the wounded man Avas first apprised of his injury by his falling on the ground, by his arm hanging useless to the side, or by blood flowing froDi the sleeve, the boot, or the stirrup-iron. The shock, too, varies. As in other injuries, it may be of two kinds; ■ mental and corporeal. The former is temporary, may exist without any i serious injury, and ordinarily gives way to re-assurance. The latter may < be aggravated by the former; but is itself wholly independent of tli'^ mind. The bravest, and the most actively employed, are laid prostrati^ by it. It is proportioned to the extent of injury, the importance of the part affected, and the amount of blood lost. If a Kmb has been car- ried away by a round shot—or if an internal organ, as the lung, stoniacli. liver, has been implicated in the course of a bullet—the patient is found in a state more or less approaching to syncope, and struck Avitli an alarm and apprehension over which he has no control. Whereas, by a snnpl' fracture or flesh wound, the same patient would scarcely be disturbeii from his ordinary composure. Sometimes, it is true, a certain amount o corporeal and actual shock does attend even on slight injury. 33ut i" this case it is usually transient; either quickly passing off spoutaueouslv.