1186 CONSTITUTIONAL TREATMENT. the indurated chancre, is followed by a train of secondary and tertiary symptoms more or less developed and prolonged; and that by mercurial treatment wo do not signify mercurial poisoning, effected by the continu- ous salivation of a patient, as was formerly practised. The mercurial treatment of syphihs may be begun at different periods of the disease. Ey some it is employed at the commencement; so soon, in fact, as the characters of the indurated chancre render the nature of the disease obvious. Ey others, its use is reserved for the secondary symptoms; in the initial sore, hmiting its employment to those cases where the induration is so great as to retard the progress towards a sound cicatrization, and where the cicatrix, when formed, seems liable again to give way. By some, again, a selection of cases is made ; the squamous eruptions, the condylomata, and the affections of the eyeball, more parti- cularly, being treated by mercurials. Ey all, its use is not prolonged beyond the secondary period; except in obstinate tertiary cases where mercurials have not previously been employed. M. Eicord strongly urges the commencement of the mercurial treat- ment so soon as the essential characters of the indurated chancre are recognised. He reasons thus in favour of this practice :—" With me the induration of the chancre is the commencement of the diathesis ; it is, in fact, the first secondary symptom; there is no need, therefore, to wait for other painful, unseemly, and disagreeable symptoms, before we commence the use of a remedy which will prevent or modify their evolution." At the same time, Kicord urges that, as mercury is advantageous in the treatment of venereal affections only in the case of syphihs, that its use should not be commenced in doubtful cases, until such secondary symptoms appear as will secure the practitioner from the risk of error in his prognosis. For, if the sore be doubtful in its characters, and you make use of a remedy which, at the outset, certainly possesses a great modifying power upon the evolution of the syphihtic affection, you pre- vent both yourself and patient for a long time from being absolutely certain of what may eventuate in his future history. In such a case, at the end of six months, can you give the patient a carte hlanche of good health, and allow him to consummate a marriage without anxiety as to its results ? If the patient had taken no mercury, he would certainly, by this time, have manifested unmistakeable signs of the nature of his disease; but as mercury both tends to prevent the cutaneous evolution of the poison, and retards generally the manifestation of its results, you must remain in ignorance as to the ultimate issue, and at least feel doubtful whether the absence of constitutional symptoms is due to the treatment or to the original character of the sore. By others, again, delay is recommended, until not only the indurated sore, and the concomitant bubo, but also the cutaneous eruption and other early symptoms, have begun to develope themselves, and make the diagnosis a matter of certainty. They also prefer it, because the cutane- ous eruption affords a criterion by which the effects of treatment may be estimated, and the progress of the remedy made more obvious to the patient than could otherwise be the case. "When, however, the indura- tion is well marked, obstinately persistent, delaying the progress of heal- ing in the sore, occluding the orifice of the urethra, preventing retraction