ACUTE ABSCESS. 85 soft and fluctuating; exterior to the soft suppurated centre, is tlie hard unyielding barrier of fibrin; and exterior to both is the soft, diffused, pitting swelHng from serous diffusion (p. 82). As the matter accumulates and points, fluctuation becomes more distinct, the central soft space en- larges as well as becomes more prominent, the surrounding induration recedes, the general swelling assumes a more conical form, and towards the apex of the cone the redness gradually passes into a yellowish tint, the pus shewing its o\vn colour through the attenuated integument. Throbbing and increase of pain, in general, immediately precede sup- puration ; and, especially when seated in important parts, rigor usually marks its occurrence. Should the inflammatory process then subside, as it frequently does—as if exhausted in the effort of having attained to its crisis —and if the suppurated texture be loose and yielding—the mieasy sensations, though not wholly absent, decidedly abate; and, afterwards, on the thin portion of skin giving way, they are still further reheved. If, on the contrary, as formerly shewn (p. 33), the tissues be dense and unyielding, or the inflammatory process from any cause sus- tained, the pain, throbbing, heat, and tension are undiminished, or pro- bably rise to an aggravated iutensity. The constitutional symptoms are inflammatory in the first instance; and then these either simply subside, or change into those of hectic, as formerly explained (p. 33). Treatment.—The indications to be fulfilled in the management of acute abscess are—1. To moderate remaining inflammatory disease. It has been already stated, that, on the formation of matter, the morbid process which caused it often subsides spontaneously. If not, anti- phlogistics are to be continued. 2. To remove all sources of excitement from both system and part. The former half of this indication is met by maintenance of the antiphlogistic regimen; in regard to the latter, foreign matter is taken away, muscles are relaxed, and the part is so placed as not to be ruffled or otherwise irritated from without. 3. To encourage the matter's approach to the surface. For this, nothing is so effectual as the constant application of hot poultices, frequently renewed, along with maintenance of strict quietude of the part j and at each renewal of the poultice, hot fomentation may be used for some minutes. The hot and moist apphcations are of use antiphlogistically; and besides, by favouring relaxation of texture, they promote enlargement of the sup- purated space—whereby, as we have seen, approach to the surface is effected (p. 61). Tension and imdue pressure are also avoided, which otherwise might occur, reinducing the inflammatory attack. 4. To evacuate the matter by an early and free opening. Abridging nature's efforts by artificial means. 5. To subdue the fresh disturbance which the infliction of the wound must necessarily induce. Fomentation, poultice, and rest, are still adequate to this. 6. To promote the ultimate closure of the cavity of the abscess by granulation and cicatricial con- traction. The three first indications are not to be long persevered in, ere the fourth is arrived at. Tliree or four days at the utmost—sometimes only as many hours—will suffice for fomentation and poultice; and then, as soon as fluctuation can be detected, evacuation should be effected.