WOUNDS OF THE INTEKNAL MAMMAUY. or from pericarditis, or from gradual exhaustion. These cases admit of no other treatment than strict repose, and the employment of evavy measure, dietetic and medicinal, to diminish the force of the lieart's action. If syncope occurs, no artificial means should be employed to liasten reaction. If the wound has been closed, and blood seems to be collecting Avithin the pericardium, embarrassing the heart's action, the aperture should be again made free and loft open. Wounds of the great vessels within the thorax are in general immedi- ately fatal, and marked by the symptoms of rapid internal hemorrhage. Exceptional instances are, however, on record, where the patient has survived a wound of the aorta for a considerable period ; but in all such cases a false aneurism has formed. The vena azygos, when wounded, has given rise to a fatal hemorrliage. The Internal Mammary artery may be opened in the three upper intercostal spaces ; below this point, the vessel can only be injured by a wound wliich divides the cartilages. Below the third space, the vessel becomes so small that serious internal bleeding would not be likely to ensue, were it not that the pleural cavity is usually opened also, and affords a receptacle for the blood. This artery has been tied in the third intercostal space, at a point about three lines from the sternal margin. The incision for this purpose should be oblique; the skin, areolar tissue, origin of the pectoralis major, and anterior intercostal muscle, require division, when the vessel will be found 1} ing upon the pleura, and separated from it only by areolar tissue. The difficulty of diagnosing the existence of bleeding as proceeding internally from this source, is even greater than in the analogous case of an intercostal vessel. Should symptoms of internal hemorrhage accom- pany a wound in the line of the artery, the wound should be opened up ; and, the bleeding having been traced to this source, compression will usually be found the most available measure for its successful arrest.