388 ANEURISM. plastic power of the tissue. Yet aneurism more seldom follows upon tliis than on the atheromatous change. It is probahle that cohesion is less impaired, and ulceration less liable. Alao it is plain that, in conse- quence of this earthy change occiu-ring most frequently in advanced age, when muscular effort is much less sudden and extreme than in younger years, one of the most common exciting causes of aneurism is not likely to be m operation. Calcareous degeneration seldom occurs, to any extent, before sixty years of age. But the period of proneness to aneurism is found to range between the ages of thirty and fifty—the period of mus- cular exertion, exposure to hard living, and liability to atheromatous egeneration of the arterial coats. Both forms of change may be said to be limited to the aortic sj'stem. The pulmonary is almost wholly exempt. Virchow has particularly directed attention to another and no less important form of arterial degeneration—the Amyloid. This degenera- tive change occurs primarily in the muscular fibres of the inner part of the middle coat. " First of all the place of every fibre cell is occupied by a compact homogeneous body, in which the centre of the nucleus still appears as an aperture, but by degrees every trace of ceU structure dis- appears, so that in the long run only a spindle-shaped body remains, which possesses no apparent membrane, nucleus, or contents. This change ultimately pervades whole tracts of tissue, and ultimately the vessel walls become transformed into a mass which is homogeneous, compact, shining, colourless, and very friable" [Virchow). ((fM The chief importance attachable to this change is, the diseased cH dition which it induces in the tissues nourished by such afferent vesselsr producing in these a similar state known as amyloid, waxy, or lardaceoii- degeneration—well seen in the liver, spleen, kidneys, and lymphatic glands, s For the calcareous and amyloid degenerations we can do nothing. . When the atheromatous is suspected, all stimuH should be abstracted, and the diet carefully and temperately regulated ; sudden and great mns- j cular exertion should also be avoided, as well as mental excitement or j other causes likely to occasion hurry of the circulation. If inflammatory symptoms coexist, and the rheumatic diathesis be present, or the system •! have suffered by syphilis or mercury, means must be taken to counteract ! these states ; not so much with the object of removing the pathological i results which have already occurred, as with the view of checking fur- ther change. K need be, the force and rapidity of circulation may be controlled, by digitalis, aconite, or other sedatives on the heart's action. Aneurism. By this term is meant a pulsating tumour; composed of a cyst, whicli is filled with blood, partly fluid, partly coagulated, and whose cavit} communicates with the arterial canal. Various divisions have been made of this important subject. Tli" most ordinary is into the True and False Aneurisms. But these tenii|^. having come to bear so many and diverse meanings as to lead to muc i practical confusion, it may be well to supersede them by others less liahlt^ to be mistaken; and we shall therefore speak, rather, of Sjwiitnveous oi