923 FRACTURE OF THE SHAFT OF THE ULNA. Malgaigue has found the process fractured in most instances of dislocation of both bones of the forearm backwards, which have been artificially produced; and Mr. Fergusson has stated—though apparently on no sufficient gi'ounds—that in cases of dislocation of both bones of the foreai-m backwards " the coronoid process will probably be broken." That it should occiu' rather in young than adult patients, and be pro- duced by muscular action, as is implied by Mr. Listen in mentioning the case of a boy of eight years of age, who hung by one hand to the top of a wall for some time, afraid to drop down, and in whom he detected this injury, would seem to imply two anatomical errors—that the coronoid has a separate centre of ossification, and that the brachialis anticus muscle is inserted only into its tip. Without, therefore, absolutely denying its existence, we have never seen this injury, and do not feel satisfied as to the reported cases where it has been supposed to have occurred. If it ever happens it could only be produced either by inordinate muscular action, or by any cause sufficient to bring the part in violent contact with the trochlea of the humerus. Were it to occur, the ulna would tend to pass backwards, the weight of the forearm being unresisted by the brachialis and coronoid, and the tendon of the biceps would be felt stretched over the articulating end of the humerus, while the brachialis anticus would either draw the coronoid process above the trochlea of the humerus when the arm was extended, or retain it lying over the articu- lating surface; admitting of crepitus being experienced only when the displacement was reduced, and the forearm flexed on the arm, while pressure was made over the site of the fractured process. In treatment, the forearm is placed in a state of extreme flexion, and retained so by a pad of lint and a flgure of 8 bandage, so as to prevent displacement and support the parts. Ligamentous union is usually stated to be expected, partly from the analogy of the case of the olecranon, partly from regard to the morbid specimens of the effects of chronic rheumatic arthritis affecting this process to be found in museums. 3. Of the Shaft.—The weakest point of the shaft of the ulna is a little below its centre ; but as fracture of the shaft can hardly occur except from direct violence, any part of it is found practically alike liable to suffer. There is usually very little displacement unless the fracture is a comminuted one; any little there is usually takes place in the 'lirection in which the violence which produced the injury tended to lorce the ends of the bones, and this may be either forwards or back- wards, but is generally towards the radius—a circumstance which has probably given rise to the belief that the lower fragment is drawn to the radius by the action of the pronator quadratus muscle. When such 'lisplacement exists, a depression is easily felt in running the finger ilong the outline of the bone, and this can only be obscured by san- 'lineous and inflammatory swelUng. There is neither pronation nor iipination of the hand. By pressure along the sharp mai'gin of the ulna, and by attempting to move the ends of the shaft on either aspect "f the fracture in different directions, mobility and crepitus are readily perceived. In treatment, coaptation having been effected by direct I'ressure, splints arc applied on the palmar and dorsal aspects; each extending from the elbow to the metacarpo-phalangcal joints, so