478 SUBCUTANEOUS WOUNDS. II. Subcutaneous Wounds Belong to tlio class of incisions, but are. jocculiar in their mode of production. They are designedly made, by the surgeon, Avith some curative object in view. Their paramount principle is thorough exclusion of atmospheric exposure from the cut textures. By the absence of such stimulus the mischievous results of the inflammatoi-y process are avoided, union occurring by immediate adhesion, without the formation of any purulent product. A narrow knife with sharp cutting edge is introduced obliquely beneath the integument, at a little distance from the tendonous A or other texture to be incised. When it has been pa.ssed over or beneath the part to be divided, the cutting edge is directed against it, and the necessary section effected as the blade is again withdrawn. As the knife makes it exit, the track of the blade is compressed with the finger of the Surgeon, or an assistant, to prevent blood occupying the cavity; and the orifice is also care- fully closed by pressure, to prevent the entrance of air. A pad I of lint of suitable size is then laid on instead of the finger, to t effect a like support of the wound and its aperture ; and is re- - tained there by means of a strip of adhesive plaster, or a- bandage, or both, as may seem best suited for the situation. Furthermore, the part must be kept at rest, by splints or other- wise, so as to permit the process of agglutination in tlie deep wound to occur undisturbedly ; and suitable constitutional treat- ment is maintained, to secure immunity from the inflammatory} access. If blood collects in the deeper part of the wound, iti should be carefully squeezed out before applying the pad ofi lint; as the clot of blood, although not so injurious in a sub-> cutaneous as in an open wound, interferes with the perfection] of the process of union. Fig. 20i. Accidental wounds often penetrate beneath the skin to a con-i siderable extent. These rarely follow the course of subcutaneous wounds/ surgically inflicted; but being more or less lacerated in character, are denominated punctured wounds, the peculiarities of which we shall have to consider immediately. III. Contused and Lacerated Wounds. These, closely resembling each other in their nature, and in thd treatment required, need not be considered separately. They are in^ flicted by a blunt body, forcibly applied ; or by powerful divelleut for In the one case, the margins of the wound are bruised; in the othe they are torn, and of a ragged appearance. Such wounds may be tended with comparatively little hemorrhage and pain ; but they are ii| the less formidable on that account. Tlie lacerated artery, it will remembered, accomplishes its own hemostatics with rapidity and ease Fig. 204. Tenotomy knife, narrow lilade, single cuttiug edge ; suited for ma subcutaneous divisions.