FRACTUKES OF THE FOOT. 1319 tlie limb is flexed, Dupuytren's splint is applied on either the tibial or fibular aspect of the limb—or tbe stirrup splint is employed—according to the direction and nature of the displacement. TJie External Malleolus may be detached, as we have seen, in a similar manner, by forcible inversion of the foot. "When the foot is forcibly everted, as already stated, the fibula is more likely to give way at a point somewhat higher—its weakest part. The same splint is em- ployed as in the more ordinary fracture of the fibula. The Tarsal Bones are occasionally fractured ; usually by intense and dii-ect violence. In general, disorganisation is sucb as to leave no hope of recovery ; and primary amputation, consequently, is often required. The Astragalus, however, may be split and fissured perpendicularly and longi- tudinally, perpendicularly and transversely, and horizontally, by a heavy faU received on the calcaneum; there may be little or no displacement; and a satisfactory cure may ensue. Ey pressure upon the part, and twisting of the foot, mobility and crepitus are distinguished. An appearance of dislocation of the foot backwards has also been observed. The leg and foot are kept steady by lateral splints, or by means of the double-inclined plane. The tuberosity of the Calcaneum is described in most works on surgery, since the days of Garengeot, as liable to fracture from violent con- traction of the muscles of the calf. The symptoms and treatment stated are the same as in the case of ruptured tendo Achillis. It is a curious fact, however, that not above eight cases of such a fracture are upon record. I have a specimen in which a fracture of the os calcis ex- tends longitudinally and perpendicularly through the bone. This was caused by direct violence. Necrosis resulted, implicating in the inflam- matory process the neighbouring bones and joints, and requiring ulti- mately amputation at the ankle-joint. Comminution of the os calcis from a crushing force, or from violence acting directly upon the tube- rosity of tbe OS calcis, is no uncommon injury. It is usually indicated by enlargement of the calcaneo-plantar region, and flattening of the arch of the foot. This lesion is liable to be mistaken for fracture of both malleoli The most appropriate treatment consists in the application of a figure of 8 bandage to the foot and ankle. Fractures of the Foot. Fractures of the metatarsal bones, and phalanges, are seldom eff'ected but by a crushing force. A wheel passing over the foot, a horse tread- ing upon it, or the smaU foot of a sheep impinging on the metatarsal region in leaping over a fence, may fracture one or more of the meta- tarsal bones. From twisting the foot in making a false step, I have seen the fifth metatarsal bone fractured. The displacement is sometimes considerable, especially when several bones are broken; the proximal extremity projecting on the dorsum, the distal displaced towards the sole of the foot. The issue is rarely prosperous, especially when the lesion is compound. The metatarsal bones, after readjustment, usually require no splints. If, however, the patient is restless, a piece of gutta percha or wood, exactly corresponding to the outline of the sole of the foot, may be procured, padded, and retained by a figure of 8 bandage carried round