1083 RESULTS OF VESICAL CALCULUS, a large stone ; and mce versa. Also, phospliatic formations are apt to be larger than those of any other kind. The continued irritation, by the stone's presence, induces serious change in the coats of the bladder. Tlio mucous membrane, as abeady seen, becomes congested, and sustains perversion of its secretion ; the mucus is at first viscid and clear, afterwards discoloured and phosphatic. By a clironic inflammatory process the membrane may be thickened; under the acute process it may ulcerate, discharging pus copiously. The mus- cular coat, imder frequent stimulus to contract, and frequent obedience to that stimulus by violent and spasmodic contraction, becomes hyper- trophied; and after death, the fasciculi are seen coursing in their inter- lacements, saHent and strong, with depressions between. The cavity of the viscus is contracted ; and such diminution in capacity is usually pro- portioned to the increase of bulk in the muscular fibre. Between the fasciculi, the depressions get deeper and deeper; and frequently the mucous coat becomes protruded outwards, so as to form pouches or sacs, of greater or less size ; within which in rare cases a calculus may become embayed, or a fresh concretion may form. Abscess may occur between the coats ; usually dischargiug itself into the viscus; sometimes open- ing outwards, by perforation, into the cavity of the peritoneum, or into the deep areolar tissue of the pelvis—either event most hazardous—or into the rectum. And thus, iu three ways, a cavity may be produced for the encystment of calculus ; by internal opening of a parietal abscess j by hernial protrusion of the mucous coat, outwards, through the muscu- lar j by deepening and enlargement of a depression between the hyper- trophied fascicuK. The inflammatory process may invade the whole coats ; chronic or acute. Gangrene has sometimes occurred ; ulceration and abscess are not unfrequent. In the aged, chronic cystitis is almost inevitable ; then the phosphatic mucus, which attends this afl'ection, increases the growth of the stone ; and phosphatic deposit, becoming entangled in the viscid mucus which adheres to the lining membrane, may lay the foundation of other concretions, or constitute a broad adherent layer of calculous matter. The prostate sooner or later becomes enlarged, in those advanced in years. The kidneys suffer more and more by derangement of function ; ultimately organic disease is not im- probably produced. And under such advancement in disease and suffering, it need not surprise us that the issue of the malady is death. At the same time it is not to be forgotten, that many a patient, with large stone, bulky prostate, and diseased bladder, lives for years, and may die of an ailment with which the stone is unconnected. The effects of time on the stone itself are important. The most obvious is enlargement; slow, in the case of the mulberry j in the uric, seldom rapid; in the phosphatic, rapid and untoward. And be it re- membered, that whatever the nature of the original concretion be, its ultimate coatings will be phosphatic, if it remain long ; its irritation never failing to induce the phosphatic depravity of secretion, in the kidney and in the mucous coat of the bladder. By sacculation of the bladder's walls, an opportunity is afforded for encystment. And if this take place, the symptoms are all mitigated—may indeed wholly disap- pear. But the stone slowly receives addition within the pouch; and