TUMOURS OF MUCOUS MEMBRANE. benign in tendency. Tlio third is of doubtful chai'acter, and prone to degenerate. The last is most malignant. 1. The Simple, Benign, Mucous Polypus differs but little, iu appear- ance, from the original texture in which it is produced; and of which, indeed, it is little else than an out-growth, or hypertrophy. In structure, it is softer and more pulpy ; less vascular, only a few sluggish vessels being seen coursing on its exterior ; of paler hue, and of much less sensibiUty. The mass is pyriform, attached by a narrow peduncle. They seldom occur singly, but in clusters; the majority, however, being for a time held in the background by one or two large tumours, which fully occupy the space in which they grow. The at- tachment does not extend to a greater depth than that of the mucous membrane. They are most frequently found in the nasal passages ; in the uterus they are common; more rarely they are connected with other paits of the genito-urinary system ; and the respiratory and alimentary canals are not altogether exempt. Treatment is by evulsion. The tumour is laid firm hold of by for- cejis, at its narrow neck, as close as possible to the point of attachment; and by a twisting movement, combined with that of gentle pulling, the attachment is torn away, and the part removed. There is no reproduc- tion ; but there may be an appearance of it. For some of the small polypi—formerly compressed, and squeezed close to the roots of the larger—now expand and grow apace. The disease is rejjroduced, doubt- less, though not by return of the original tumour; and of this circum- stance it is necessary to apprise the patient to prevent disappointment. The hemorrhage that follows is slight; and is easily restrained by pressure. H"o violence is necessary, in the evulsive effort. It is besides inexpedient; tending to tear away an unnecessary extent of membrane, perhaps with a portion of subjacent bone, and also to augment the hemorrhage. 2. The Cysto-mueous Polypus may be original; or the preceding form, by long endurance, may change into this. The structure is not homogeneous; but contains cavities, filled with clear, glairy fluid. The colour is paler; at the fundus, often of a whitish hue, Hke an oyster. The texture is more dense ; especially at the parietes of the cysts, which are sometimes almost cartilaginous. The form, attachment, tendency, and treatment, are the same as in the benign form. This variety seldom occurs but in the nostrils, 3. Tlie Fibrous Polypus.—This is fibrous or fibroid in structm-e; invested by mucous membrane; of a cylindrical or sessile form; and attached by a broad base not only to the mucous membrane and subja- cent tissue, but, in the case of the nostrils, also to the periosteum ; indeed, it may be connected with the bone itself. Like the jirecedmg vaiieties, it is the seat of little or no pain, and proves inconvenient chiefly by its Fig. 106. Simple mucous polypi, seen growing in the nasal passages.