KlfiTliNTION OP URINE. 1116 If no relief be iiflbrded, a serious local accident is likely to occur before the system has become fatally i^rostrate. The bladder or the urethra gives way ; cither by ulceration, or by actual tearing under strong action of the detrusor; and extravasation of urine takes place of urine, be it observed, deprived of much of its aqueous part, intensely saline and acrid. The inevitable result is sloughing of the infiltrated parts ; too generally followed by rapid sinldng of the patient. Obviously, therefore, it is of the utmost importance to afibrd early and effectual aid in this affection. 1. Retention from Stricture of the Urethra.—In this case, perliaps the most common, danger is especially great; the thickened and power- ful middle coat of the bladder labouring hard to overcome the obstacle to evacuation, and consequently rendering solution of continuity all the more imminent. The patient has long been in the habit of making water tardily and ill; at last the passage seems effectually closed ; and the ordinary dis- tress of retention supervenes. Probably an exciting cause may be found; indiscretion at the dinner-table, injudicious use of a bougie or catheter, exposure to cold or wet, or an attack of piles. The previously narrowed canal has become occluded by congestion, or by the swelling attendant on an active inflammatory process, in the affected part; and, no doubt, there is also spasm. If the history of the case and its symptoms be such as to lead us to su^jpose that the strictured urethra is inflaming or inflamed, the catheter must be withheld; unless indeed the case be far advanced, and the safety of the parts from extravasation already endangered. Leeches are appHed to the perineunr, in clusters ; or cupping is had recourse to ; the patient is seated in a warm hip-bath—and this bath need not be delayed tiU leeching is over, as the aniinals will not be disturbed by comfortable immersion. A full opiate is given, by the mouth or by the anus; or in both ways. Very probably, such relaxation occiu's as to obviate all necessity for the catheter; urine dribbling away in the bath, and then perhaps coming in a tiny stream, sufficient to reheve all lu'gency of symptoms. In the event of failure, however,^ after a reasonable time and trial, the bladder must be reheved at all hazards. In those cases where we have no reason to suspect an inflammatoiy attack, the catheter is used at once; of small size, steadily yet gently persevered with; the patient under chloroform. Sometimes the silver instrument refuses to pass, while a gum-elastic one, straight, and deprived of its stilet, enters the bladder with comparative ease. Sometimes it happens, that after the end of a silver catheter has been pressed steadily for some time on the stricture, and withdrawn, the urine begins to fol- low. The steel probe-pointed catheter diminishing in size gradually from the size of a No. 3 catheter of the common scale, down to a small probe point, will frequently be found very serviceable in obstinate cases. In no case is force or violence to be employed. But, when unsuccessful with the catheter and the auxiliary means already noticed, the bladder must be relieved at all hazards—through the perineum, or by the rectum, as will afterwards be stated. 2. Retention from Urethritis.—The inflammatory process may attack