98 FISTULA. course to be avoided. The incision will certainly be followed by an acute inflammatory process throughout its whole extent; for to ensure this, and prevent adhesion at any point, a slip of lint is placed in the track, and retained until suppuration is established. The secreting surface is converted into the condition of an ordinary granulating wound, and we have only now to tend this process; making sure that it advances steadily and uniformly from the bottom, by preventing premature closure of its surface. When sinus is both deep and extensive, it is neither necessary nor expedient to incise its whole space. A counter opening or openings having been made, treat the surface, at least in the first instance ; and the probabiUty is, that the inner portion will join the surface in the in- flammatory and curative results. Fistula. By this term is meant a further contraction of the sinus, with conso- lidation of its walls, and generally complicated by communication with a mucous surface. The abscess has now degenerated into a mere tube, often presenting a pouting, sometimes a callous or warty orifice. The discharge is still watery ; but ever and anon purulent reaccessions are apt to ensue. For this state of things there is almost always a maintaining cause; to be found and removed. Some foreign substance is lodged, as in sinus; and is to be taken away ; by incision, if necessary. Or there may be some change of structure at fault; the result of a former inflammatory process. Thus, Fistula in perineo usually depends on stricture of the urethra ; and if this latter be removed by suitable treatment, the fistula cures itself; it gradually closes and dries. Tf, on removal of the maintaining cause, the fistula still remains open, then the lining membrane is destroyed, and contraction favoured, either Fig. 23. by the use of incision as in obstinate sinus ; or—what is often better— by a heated wire, applied accurately to the track. In the eschar the lining membrane is included ; and, on its separation, the granulating surface nf a burn remains—sure to bring contraction in its healing, as Fig. 23. Example of Fistula. F. in perineo.