FUNGUS H/EMATODES. 193 having every other characteristic of cancer, tliere can be no doubt as to its true nature. The surgical management of colloid cancer has nothing peculiar ; Fig. 77. /I vL^;<^\ Fig. 76. Fig. 78. Fig. 79. being guided by the same principles as in any other malignant growth. 6. Fungus HiEMATODEs.—This is a compound morbid state; gene- rally arising out of the medullary tumour, when in the open and ulcerating condition. It has already been stated that protrusion of the medullary mass, and infiltration of it with extravasated blood, are liable to occur imder such circumstances. But in order to constitute a true l\mgus Hjematodes, three things are essential; that there shall be a lungous projection of morbid structure; that the fungus be dark and bloodlike ; and that it bleed, more or less profusely. This condition may be either of a primary or of a secondary character; much more fre- i[uently it is the latter. Examples have occurred in which, without other morbid formation, a small, dark fungus has shewn itself, bleeding profusely from time to time, perilling life, and demanding the most urgent measures for its removal. But, more frequently, there is first a tumour of mahgnant character, which opens, and ultimately throws out the bleeding fungus; and the fungus hsematodes, in this, the most fre- quent case, is to be regarded as the climax of malignancy in a formation I heady of evil nature. The morbid structure on wliich it most frequently 'ipervenes, is the medullary. The untoward symptoms are all much ■gravated by the accession; the cachexy becomes more marked ; the ime sinks lower and more rapidly; the malignant hectic has an acute ■acerbation; pain and misery are great; exhaustion is rapid; and fatal nking is not long deferred. Fig. 76. Section of colloid cancer from the stomach, shewing the loculi in the 'Tous .structure and the contained cells. Fig. 77. Several cells isolated. Fig. 78. Fibrous stroma deprived of the cells by pressure and washing. F'g- 79. Section of the growth treated with acetic acid.—Bennett. O