BLOOD-LETTING. 43 the animal economy; and when a delicacy of texture is involved, whose inaiiitenanco is essential to important function. Bleeding is not to be regulated by its absolute amount, but by its effects. l^To foregone idea should be entertained, that in one form of tlisease a certain number of ounces will sufi&ce; while in another, a greater, and in a third, a less amount must be invariably taken. In every case, the thought of mere measure is ignored; blood is permitted to flow on, until the desired effect has been obtained; and then the stream is arrested, irrespective of whether the ounces amount to three or thirty. The fewer the better. Tn connection with this point, it is further to be remembered, that the inflammatory process engenders a tolerance of this remedy. A young, robust, healthy man, may be bled when he does not require it; but, most probably, not many ounces shall have flowed, ere nature interposes her objection to the procedure, and syncope occurs. Whereas, open a vein in the arm of even a weak, pale-faced, nervous patient, who is the subject of an acute inflammatory seizure in some important part, and it is not improbable but double the amount or more shall have been with- drawn, ere any considerable effect has been made upon the system. So truly and generally does this obtain, that an important auxiliary in diagnosis may be thence derived. You are bleeding a patient j in doubt whether the disease is truly inflammatory or not; but you suspect that it is, otherwise it is likely you would not have performed venesection ; only a few ounces have escaped, when the patient grows pale and faint ; you arrest the flow, and reconsider your diagnosis, suspicious of an error. But should no faintness threaten after a full or even large abstraction, doubt is removed; your diagnosis is confirmed; you advance unhesitat- ingly with antiphlogistics j the disease is there, and has engendered a tolerance of the remedy. On coming to a conclusion from this test, however, care must be taken to ascertain that the syncope, or tendency thereto, is an actual faiHng of nature; the effect of the loss of blood; not the result merely of fear, or other depressing agency, on the patient's mind. Wlien aware that the patient is naturally timid, and liable to faint from this cause; and when at the same time confident that he labour's under inflammatory disease, and that the circumstances demand effective blood-letting—we bleed him in the recumbent posture, and with a gentle stream. Tolerance of bleeding will also be found to vary according to the sex, age, and temperament of the patient; greater in the male than in the female; least in the lymphatic, gr-eatest in the sanguine temperament; greater in adult age, than at either of the extremes of life; in early mfancy it is most especially small, but quickly recovered when lost; in advanced years loss of blood is not likely to prove so obviously and directly calamitous, yet it is a spoliation hard to be borne, for the powers of life do not admit of repair so readily as in the yoimg. Tolerance also, be It remembered, is but temporary; great at the beginning of the inflammatory change, it ceases towards its end. Similar tolerance of appropriate remedies seems often to be generated by disease. ^ In fact, it may be laid down as almost a general rule, that a remedy—in itself severe—may, when appropriate to a given form of