214 SUllGICAL HEMOSTATICS. division. It may be sucla as merely to close the aperture, leaving the normal canal pervious; or it may he to such an extent as to occlude the •whole tube, and lead to obliteration at that point. The latter is the more frequent occurrence ; and is indeed to be preferred; rendering the occurrence of either secondary hemorrhage, or aneurismal formation, less probable. The result depends not a little on the form of wound. If a mere puncture, in the axis of the vessel, exist—there is no gaping; hemor- rhage is comparatively slight, and the process of occlusion is easily effected; the tube remaining per- vious. K the wound be oblique, gaping is considerable, bleeding co- pious, occlusion more difficult, and obliteration of the canal probable. The more nearly the incision ap- a b c d preaches a transverse direction, the greater the gaping, the hemorrhage, the difficulty of occlusion, and the probabiHty of obliteration. When it is not only transverse, but involves more than half of the vessel's girth, the gaping is great; the bleeding is with much difficulty controlled ; and ulceration almost always occurs, ultimately severing the undivided portion of the coats. Thereafter permanent hemostatics are then con- ducted in the same way, and very much under the same circumstances, as if the artery had been at first completely divided. Surgical Hemostatics. A most important qualification in the surgeon, called to a case of hemorrhage by wound, is absence of fear or alarm. And this valuable coolness can only be obtained by self-confidence ; founded on an intimate knowledge of the means whereby the flow may be arrested, and on a conviction that he is perfectly competent to apply these effectually. His first duty is to expose the wound. Probably it has been covered up with bandages, or napkins, or cloths, by some anxious and unskilful hand, in the vain hope of so stanching the bleeding. These must be all removed. His next duty is to expose the bleeding point. The wound Avill be found filled with coagulum, through which the blood weUs out more or less copiously. This clot must be all dislodged, witb the fingers or forceps. Then the cut orifice is seen, sending forth its jet: and then, and then only, can that orifice be dealt with in an effectual manner. Meanwhile, let him compress that bleediug point Avith his finger, till he determine what the circumstances may require, and what further instruments or assistants he may need to procure. Such direct accurate pressure on the bleeding point will always arrest bleeding from any artery, however large the si2;e. Let him, therefore, set to work Fig. 89. Plan of wounded arteries; a, a mere longitudinal slit, extending to an oval space ; b, the same woimd, in an obli(iue direction, gaping more ; c, a less wound transverse, with the proportional gaping great ; d, a transverse wound of the same size as a and b, causing a very wide hiatus.—Liston.