1153 PHAGED.ENIC AND SLOUGHING SORES. pf copper or zinc lotion—tlie latter especially—with the addition of aromatic tinctures. The calomel and lime-water wash also constitutes an excellent application. From time to time the pencilling of the ulcer- ating surflice with the solid nitrate of silver, with subsequent applica- tion of dry lint for twelve hours thereafter, tends very materially to hasten the progress towards cicatrization. Nothing, certainly, has so manifest an effect in promoting the absorption of the induration of the base and margins of the ulcer, and therefore the cicatrization of the sur- face, as the administration internally of some preparation of mercuiy, or even the apphcation of blue (mercurial) ointment as a dressing to the sore itself. This effect of mercurial treatment forms a strong contrast to the results of mercury in the soft chancre ; tending, as it does, in the latter, to delay the healing of the sore; and, when pushed so far as to affect the system, obviously inviting the occurrence of phagedena. In no case, however, of indurated sore is the use of mercury essential to induce the process of healing. Simple means will suffice for this ; although the progress of cure may be tardy, compared with that when mercurials are employed. PhagedceniG Oliancre, Sloughing Ulcers of the Genitals, and Sloughing Phagedena. Phagedaenic or sloughing sores occurring upon the genitals may be altogether unconnected with any exposure to venereal contact. This simple phagedsena, however, is a very exceptional form, and usually occurs in patients whose system is worn out by the pre-existence of some exhausting disease. PhagedEenic sores which are of the nature of chancres may belong to either the soit or the indurated species. Most commonly they are of the former kind ; the tendency to phagedsena being one of the characters of the soft chancre. So unusual, in fact, is it to meet with an infecting chancre which undergoes the phagedsenic degener- ation, that the occurrence of phagedsena has by some been regarded as a preventive of syphihs. This clinical experience, although practically still a valuable aid in prognosis, must not be considered as absolutely correct; for we must recollect at the same time that other pathologists have attempted to shew, that more serious constitutional symptoms of .syphilis follow upon the phagedsenic than upon any other form of sore ; .and practical surgeons have long since concluded that while mercury is injurious in nearly all cases of phagdasnic ulceration, there are some phagedsenic chancres which obstinately resist all other treatment, and improve rapidly when mercurials are employed. Phagedsena then must not be considered as a variety or species of chancre, but merely a compli- cation of the chancre—soft or indurated as the case may be—occurring most frequently in the former, and rarely in the latter. Why this is the case we do not know; any more than how it is that an attack of ery- sipelas, supervening upon phagedsena, usually arrests the progi-ess of the ulceration. When phagedsena attacks an indurated chancre, it is usually far less destructive than when it compUcates the soft form of sore ; the degree of destructiveness and the tendency to extension of the ulceration varying in each case. This, in fact, is so true, that the characters of the 4 E