MOKIilD I'KOCESSES IN CAKTILAGK 348 Fig. 146. bibitioii possessed by these textures themselves, and the vital properties with which tliey are endowed, form the essential parts of this process; and it is sufficient if the nutritive iluid be carried by its vessels into sucli a degree of approximation with the minuter elements of the tissues, as shall admit of the imbibition by them of an amount corresponding with their nutritive activity. In the former chapters of this work it has been shewn, in conformity with these views, that the different morbid processes taking place in tlie textures are mostly to be regarded as perverted forms of their nutritive changes, and consequently dependent only in a secondary degree on the nature and amount of the vascular supply. Mr. Goodsir has led the way to the true pathology of articular carti- lage, by shewing that the disintegration of these structures is accompanied by changes in their minuter organization, which cannot be accounted for on physical principles, and must be the result of inherent though per- verted nutritive activity in the tissue itself Cartilage is composed, as is well known, of corpuscles contained in cells implanted with a certain order and arrangement in an apparently homogeneous intercelluJar sub- stance, which has been called the matrix, hyaline substance, or intercellular substance. Mr. Goodsir has pointed out, that disorganization in cartilage is invariably accompanied by changes in the form and size of these cells, which become much enlarged, and more rounded than in the normal state ; " and instead of two or three nucleated cells or corpuscles in their W^^^^:^''^^^--'^''^^ interior, contain a mass of them" At the Same time the matrix softens and breaks up, being probably ab- sorbed in part into the enlarged cor- puscles, the more superficial of which have their walls destroyed, and their cellular contents set free. In the course of these changes, the cartilage remains entirely non-vascular; but as it gradually disappears, the ex- posed surfaces are very commonly occupied by a fibrous membrane, Avhich lies everywhere in close ap- position with them, and is pervaded by new vessels derived from the vascular system of the adjacent bone or synovial membrane. Sometimes this fibrous structure is also formed between the cartilage and the bone—in room of the articular lamella, which has undergone transformation ; and in this case destruction is found to be in progress, both at the attached and free surface of the cartilage. The apparent vascularity of cartilage in disease, there- fore, seems to depend altogether upon a transformation into fibrous tissue. Fig. 146. Diseased articular cartilage magnified 240 diameters, shewing the en- largement of the corpuscles, the more superficial of which are throwing out their con- tents into the softened intcrcorpuscular substance.—IIedfkrn.