701 CHANGES IN THE PUPIL. . expected to disappear gradually by absorption. The occurvence of ..ypoiBuia, however, as indicating a depraved state of system, is always bad omen. The adhesions, or S/jnechice, are superable in the recent state. Ly rseverance in the local use of atropine, the imperfectly organized fibrin extended or torn, and the iris recovers its normal play. At the same me, absorption of the product is to be favoured, by moderate continu- iiice of the mercurial. Changes in the Pupil and Iris. Umisiial dilatation of the inqnl is termed Mydriasis, and is produced lificially by atropine, belladonna, or its congeners. It may also be of iopathic origin; or it may be connected with disorder in the cerebral auctions, as ia hydrocephalus; it is a common, though not an invariable luptom of Amaurosis, due to disease of the retina, or of the third nerve; id frequently it is caused by contusions of the eye, forehead, or temple; ; :en it is sympathetic of intestinal irritation, and it may also be due to leumatism. The admission of an excess of light to the retina when it not affected, is found to be a serious inconvenience; and vision is iifused and impaired accordingly. The remedial treatment consists in etection of the cause; removal of this, if possible ; and subsequent .ulation of the part, by the appHcation of blisters over the course of e ultimate branches of the fifth nerve. Electricity and galvanism ave been said to be sometimes useful. Where the contractile function f the iris is not destroyed, the solution of Pliysostigma extract, in lycerine, dropped into the eye, will pi'oduce contraction of the pupil in out a quarter of an hour after its instillation. In the idiopathic forms paralysis of the iris, M. Serres recommends cauterization of the meal margin by nitrate of silver. In otherwise irremediable cases, alliation results from the use of a magnifying lens, or from contracting e space for admission of light; and these conditions may be combined a convex glass darkened except at a small round opening or hori- ntal sht in the centre. When dilatation of the pupil accompanies amaurosis, of course it not be expected to disappear, unless the amaurotic condition have en previously removed ; and in all cases, diagnosis and prognosis can y be satisfactorily arrived at by the use of the opthalmoscope. Myosis denotes unusual contraction of the pupil. This is one of the nsequences of Iritis, as we have already seen ; it is a normal condition ring sleep, and becomes so at aU times in some persons as they vance in life; it may also attend on disorder of the cerebral func- ns. It occurs, temporarily, where the extract of Physostigma has ^ applied to the conjunctiva; also in cases of opium poisoning, hus fever, and dehrium tremens. "When the sympathetic nerve is vided in the neck, the pupil on that side becomes permanently con- cted; and in injuries of the spine between the fifth cervical and sixth real vertebrai {Regio cilio-sjnnalis) the same condition is produced, ence aneurismal tumours of the neck or thorax, affecting these nervous atres, have been noticed to be accompanied by contraction of the pupil.