TEEATMENT OF SECONDARY IIEMOHllHAGE. 415 side higher up ; and maintain direct and moderate pressure over the bleeding point. It' second deligation be impracticable—as too often is the case, this form being most frequent in the deep-seated vessels, as those at the root of the neck—pressure must be trusted to alone, along Avith general treatment. 4, Where the condition of the tumour, of the limb, and of the patient, as well as the occurrence of secondary hemorrhage, concur in rendering the prospect of our efforts to save both patient and limb, to say the least, improbable, then amputation of the limb, at or a little above the point of deligation, should be resorted to without further delay. Another casualty, scarcely less alarming, may follow deligation ; in- flammatory seizure of the concomitant vein. If the phlebitis be of the worst kind—diffusely suppurative—this of itself at once perils existence. And, supposing only the simplest form to occur—that which terminates in thickening of the coats, and occlusion of the canal at the point affected —gangrene is rendered probable ; pervading the whole limb, and de- manding amputation. In fact, according to some, gangrene, after deliga- tion of the femoral artery, never comes on except where the femoral vein has been injured in the performance of the operation. This danger should ever he borne in mind when conducting the operation. The vein should be studiously avoided, and left undisturbed—by forceps, fingers, knife, and ligature. As already stated, it is of much importance, as re- gards the artery itself, that its tissue alone should be included in the ligature's noose. And as regards the success of the operation, it is not less important that the surrounding tissues should be uninjured ; and of these most especially the vein. Phlebitis, once excited, under such cir- cumstances, will scarcely be within our control, so as to avert the evil consequences. It is well to remember, however, that although the limb may for a time seem gangrenous and threaten to die, the actual sloughing or sphacelation may be very limited. In such circumstances, then, it is usually well to let nature determine how much is to recover ere we proceed to amputate. Suppuration of the aneurismal sac sometimes occurs after the applica- tion of a ligature upon the cardiac aspect of the tumour ; but seldom until the vessel at the aneurismal part has become obliterated. The symptoms are sometimes severe, and may even be alarming. When satisfied that suppuration has occurred, a free incision should be made into the sac; when pus, clots, and broken up fibrinous laminae will escape, leaving behind the gaping thickened walls of the sac. These will in course of time contract—helped by the employment of stimulating lotions and pressure. In some cases, however, hemorrhage epsues ; and in such circumstances amputation will usually be the only suitable treatment. It may happen that, some days after the operation, both patient and practitioner are alarmed by the sudden occurrence of strong pulsation in the wound ; not connected with the state of either the artery or the aneurism, but entirely muscular; intermittent, and not synchronous with the arterial pulse. Alarm on such ground is unnecessary. In a short time, some simple antispasmodic having perhaps been given, and quietude maintained, the normal state is restored. Other methods of treatment, wliich have been and still are in use, now claim our attention.