135i AMPUTATION OF THE FINGERS. of the methods just described. Hemorrhage having been arrested, the flaps are united and retained in the ordinary way. Amputation at the Metacarpal Joint may be performed in various ways. In all, the hand is held pronated. 1. The finger, well separated from its fellows, is laid hold of by the surgeon, and drawn to one side. On the exposed and tense web, the bistoury is passed upwards, from point to heel, so as to expose that side of the articulation ; at the same time, leaving on its outer side a suitable proportion of soft parts. With the Icuife's point, disarticulation is effected; the finger being pushed much across to facilitate the process. Were the blade to be used for this purpose, ragged wounding of the integument could not well be avoided. The head of the bone having been detached, the blade of the knife is placed behind it; and, by cutting obliquely outwards through the other web, detachment of the finger is completed, and a second cut surface is formed, to suit the former. This method, however, interferes with the soft parts in the palm of the hand, and has therefore no advan- tage, except rapidity of execution, to recommend it. 2. Or the knife's point is entered on the centre of the laiuckle ; and is carried either round the finger, by one continuous movement, so as to make two equal, lateral, semilunar flaps, at the same time exposing the joint—or the surgeon makes one incision through the skin and areolar tissue, from the prominence of the knuckle to a point just short of the centre of the fi-ee edge of the web. The knife is then carried inwards to the centre of the fold between the finger and the palm. A corresponding incision is made upon the other side. Disarticulation is then effected; dividing the flexor tendons with the point of the knife as a preHminary; and in removing the fingers, keeping as close to the phalanx as possible, so as to dissect it out of the soft parts. The two digital arteries usually require ligature. Approximation is effected by bringing the adjoining fingers together, and retaining them by means of a slip of bandage. Cold pledgets of lint are applied ; and, otherwise, the wound is managed in the ordinary way. When operating on the fore and little fingers, it is often more satis- factory to make the line of cicatrix lateral, instead of antero-posterior. To effect this, the radial or ulnar margin of the hand is held towards the surgeon, while the other fingers are kept out of the way by an assistant, who may also steady the wrist, and by his gripe control the circulation during the oj)eration. The surgeon now enters his knife at the centre of the free margin of the web, and carries it outwards along the line of flexure of the finger upon the palm, terminating the wound either over the head of the metacarpal bone, or, when this is to be removed, at a point three-quarters of an inch further back. A similar incision is made upon the dorsum of the finger, and disarticulation effected from the palmar aspect. It is usually well to extend the incision three-quarters of an inch behind the articulation, so as to expose the head of the meta- carpal bone, and to effect removal of its prominent articulating surface by means of the cutting-pliers. The stump is less angular, and has a more seemly appearance after cicatrization, than when the end of the metacarpal bone is left projecting. In doing this, care must be talcen not to injure the transverse ligament.