720 EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. occurrence is tlic case, the eye may be regarded as irretrievably loet. AVhen the operation is concluded, the patient should be laid on hi« back, with the head elevated ; an opiate is given if required ; ligljt and all other stimuli are to be rigidly excluded ; the ordinary regimen, how- ever, is to be continued, except in plethoric cases—and these should not have been subjected to operation, till reduced to a more normal state; precautions are to be taken against coughing, vomiting, and sneezing; and, if need be, involuntary rubbing of the eye is to be provided against also. The patient should therefore be operated on without chloroform. If possible, the eye should not be uncovered, and exposed to the stimulus of light, for at least three or four days. The symptoms of inflammatory access must be carefully watcbed—more particularly if characterized not only by temporal and circumorbital pain, but accompanied with swelling of the upper lid, muco-purulent lachrymation, a sensation of grit in the eye, cbemosis, a gaping corneal wound, and a hazy cornea. They are to be treated when they occur, not by bleeding, purging, and abstinence, and obviously not by nauseants ; nor even by mercury in the early stage, as it is sure to prevent sucli a process of gi'owth as is necessary for the healing of the cornea. Opiate fomentation, and colchicum, with blistering, are suitable in gouty cases ; and quinine, iron, ammonia, and even other stimulants, with a light nutritious diet, aj)pear to act more beneficially where the system is irritable and feeble; when pain i" severe, morphia or hyoscyamus must be given freely. In cases whic progress satisfactorily, the period of inflammatory risk having pass the eye is gently and gradually accustomed to its wonted stimulus; b exercise of its full function is to be very slowly resumed. Linear Exh-action is suited for cases of soft or mixed cataract. I peculiarities are—1^^, The incision is made in the meridian of the globe 2d, The opening is smaller than in the operation just described; 3 The lens is extracted piecemeal; either spontaneously escaping in i half-fluid state when the capsule is lacerated, or when too pultaceous ii consistence for this, and a hard nucleus is present, removed by means o Grafe's spoon. In this operation, the pupil should always be dilate^ The knife employed for the incision is Y-shaped, with a double cuttin edge. The spoon is of various sizes, deep, short, on a slender shanik, s as easily to contain the nucleus of the lens within its margins, anv tilt it out by a gentle rotatory movement while it is supported againf the interior of the cornea. By some, laceration of the capsule, ai. breaking up of the lens into the aqueous humour, is made a preliminai needle-operation, before the linear incision is practised and extractio effected—thus attempting to secure the advantages of the operations both solution and extraction. Depression, or Couching, implies downward displacement of a soli cataract, which, from the soft condition of the vitreous humour, it is n found expedient to extract. The pupil haviug been dilated by atropi the position of the patient is arranged as for extraction. The nee used for this purpose is the one known as Scarpa's, and curved at ; point. It is pushed through the sclerotic, on the external side of t cornea, in the transverse axis of the eye, at the distance of a li from the corneal margin ; this point being selected in order to avc