205 TREATMENT OF SCROFULA. progress. The healing process is rarely, if ever, accompanied by resolu- tion or absorption of the tubercular masses, although these may totally disappear from the tissue by ulceration, and be eliminated from the system. More commonly some of the tuberciilar masses are found to remain, even after aai apparently perfect cui-e of the affection, in the form of hard, gritty, or chalky masses, generally surrounded and separated from the normal tissues by a fibrous cyst; and these bodies, although quite unor- ganized, may he latent in the organs for an indefinite period without giving rise to any inconvenience. It is well ascertained also that tuber- cular excavations in the lungs, even when of large size, occasionally heal, either by gradual contraction and obliteration, leaving a fibrous cicatrix ; or by the formation of a smooth lining membrane, continuous mth that of the bronchi, and resem- bhng, in some degree, the structure of a mucous membrane. Of all the forms of internal tubercle, that of the lungs is the most frequent and the most ex- tensively fatal It is not common, however, for tubercles to be present in one organ without the participation of others in the morbid condition. And the surgeon will do well to keep this in mind when caUed upon to treat external scrofulous affec- tions ; especially if severe operations are required. Many a patient has suffered amputation of a Limb, or excision of a joint, in whom the external and more apparent disease was the least part of the affection, and in whom the constitution, enfeebled and destroyed by a wide-spreading disorder, was little adapted to bear the shock of an operation. It should therefore never be forgotten that, in adults, tubercle very seldom manifests itself in any part of the body without the lungs being af- fected; while in infants or children, the lungs, bronchial and mediastinal glands, intestines, me- senteric glands, and the brain, are frequently the seats of this morbid change, which in any or all of these situations may be pursuing its destruc- tive course while the careless or ignorant surgeon is fixing his whole attention on a gland or joint. Treatment of Scrofula.—This is both local and constitutional; the latter the more important, as already stated. In most diseases, and especially in this, prevention will be found better than cure. When a child, therefore, is born of strumous parents, aU those circumstances formerly noticed as likely to induce development of the disease, a ten- dency towards which is presumed to be congenital in the patient, sliould be most carefully avoided. And, in accordance with the view taken of the cause of the depraved tendency or state of system, it is plain that the line of treatment, whether preventive or curative, should be tonic. This best consists, not in medicine, but in due regard to food, bowels, skin. Fig. 82. Portion of tuberculatecl omentum. Fig. 82.