AMPUTATION OF THE PENIS. 1255 the pubes may be required, towards the close of the case, on account of retention of urine. Care should be taken not to mistalce an extensive induration of the prepuce and glans, the result of a partially or completely healed indurated chancre, or a tertiary syphilitic impHcation of these parts in an irregu- liu'ly-knotted mass, for cancer of the organ. Such mistakes have occurred. Kicord mentions one such case. I have myself more than once known amputation resorted to where a well-marked sypliihtic eruption upon the surface, and the double glandular inguinal enlargement, should have pre- vented any such mistake. The mere fact that a man is well up in years does not always prevent him from becoming the subject of the indurated chimcre. Indurations in the Penis. These may occur in the glans or corpus cavernosum. They vary in their nature, character, and results. In some cases they are undoubtedly cancerous, in others of a tertiary syphilitic kind, in others of the nature of fibro-cartilaginous alteration of the root of the cavernous body. In the first case, they enlarge, are painful, and implicate the inguinal glands. In the second, the history of the case, the softening of the mass, and the good effects of iodide of potassium, prevent any mistake. In the last, the insidious and slow jprogress of the affection, the absence of pain, and the tendency to ossific change, characterize the disease; it requires no treat- ment in its fully developed stage; in its early condition mercurial appli- cations have sometimes seemed useful Inflammatory indurations some- times occur, producing incapacity of erection upon the affected side; and require ordinary treatment for removal of the abnormal product. Amputation of the Penis. This is had recourse to on account of malignant disease, affecting the body of the organ ; but only when there is a sufficient space of sound texture between the disease and the pubes, and when the glands yet show no sign of contamination. The ordinary mode of performance is exceed- ingly simple. The organ, stretched by the left hand puUing it outwards, is lopped off by one sweep of an ordinary amputating knife—laid upon the part, and moved rapidly across from point to heel, or conversely. The integument is encouraged to contract towards the pubes; so that, during the puckering of cicatrization, it may not overlap and interfere with the orifice of the urethra. And this is kept of the normal calibre, by a suitable use of bougies. Eicord's method of operating is preferable, however, being well calculated to obviate the principal difficulty—namely, tendency to con- traction in the orifice of the urethra. Eapid healing of the wound is also promoted j and, at the same time, a suj6S.cient covering is provided for the corpora cavernosa. The procedure is conducted thus : After I amputation in the ordinary way—enough skin being left to cover the corpora cavernosa, and no more—the surgeon seizes with forceps the mucous membrane of the urethra, and with a pair of scissors makes four slight incisions, so as_to form four equal flaps; then, using a fine needle.