1208 STKlGTUllE OF THE URETHRA, as already stated; and excess in diet or exercise may induce aggravation, reseniMing an attack of gonorrhoea, and very probably imiDlicating the bladder. Pain is complained of in the loins and thighs, and in the peri- neum ; often erection is painful. In tiglit strictures, the urijie may pass only f/uttatim; and then, too, there may be no escape of semen in emission—this fluid passing backwards into the bladder, to be aftenvards discharged in an altered state along with the urine. The testicles are liable to enlargement; and the rectum frequently sympathizes—becom- ing prolapsed, or inflamed, or fissured, or ulcerated, or affected with hemorrhoids; sometimes strictures of the urethra and of the bowel are found to co-exist. The straining, in bad cases, is such as to empty the rectum as readily as the bladder; and in consequence the water-closet has to be used instead of the chamber-pot. Often hernia is induced. The prostate is liable to become not only excited but enlarged; and if this enlargement be chronic and simple, relief from the symptoms of stricture may be experienced; the prostatic tumour acting as a break- water, in favour of the part originally affected. But if ulceration or abscess affect the gland, then aggravation must necessarily ensue. As the kidneys suffer, their secretion becomes more and more changed; and the acrid urine, passing frequently along the urethra, reacts unfavourably on the urethral disease. The complication of rigors followed by fever passing off in copious diaphoresis—or, in other cases, of gouty rheuma- tism—is by no means unfrequent, in those advanced in years, and who have lived freely ; often with irritabihty of the stricture ; and such intercurrencies are specially apt to appear after instrumentation. Eeten- tion of urine is at any time liable to occur; the degree of constriction being suddenly increased by spasm, or by inflammatory swelling, or by both. From this cause, extravasation of urine may follow; urinous abscess, however, ending probably in the formation of fistula in perineo, is more common—generally producing mitigation of the symptoms, at least for a time, as will afterwards be explained. In severe and pro- tracted cases, the general health suffers materially—independently of all accident; the flesh and strength fail, the digestive organs are im- paired, the face is sallow, and the features wear an expression of anxiety almost pathognomonic of the disease. Constitutional irritation sets in; the symptoms denoting organic disease of the kidneys become more and more marked ; purulent, mucous, ammoniacal urine passes often, in small quantities, and with much distress ; febrile exacerbations recur with greater force and frequency; emaciation advances; the appetite and digestion fail more and more completely ; at length coma may supervene ; and the patient perishes. Treatment is conducted on simple principles ; but a satisfactory cui-e is often of very difficult attainment. Our object plainly is, to get rid of the redundant formation which causes the contraction ; and this may be effected in one of two ways : 1. By simply procuring absorption, under the stimulus of pressure ; 2. By so managing the application of pressure, as to establish a temporary and active irritation in the part, which, on its resolution, may induce rapid diminution of the product. Advance of the inflammatory process, however, to a high grade is obviously to be avoided ; suppurative results will cause further new formation around; and