78 ADHESION. We shall find that, under different circumstances, the injury may be repaired in the following methods :— 1. Immediate Union. Sometimes it happens that cut surfaces coalesce at once and simply. The oozing of blood having ceased, no appreciable formation of new matter occurs; the parts simply adhere, and become reincorporated in the normal transmutation of textures, with a scarcely appreciable cicatrix. This is rare—in man—except in the most trifling incisions. 2. Healing by adhesion; a process independent of the advanced inflammatory process, and altogether incompatible with it. For its occur- rence, three things are essential. That the surfaces of the wound shall be in close and uniform contact, and so retained ; that a sufficiency of normal circulation shall be maintained in the part; and that the con- structive part of the inflammatory process shall not overpass its second stage. To .obtain the first, surgical manipulation and adjustment are necessary; for the second, the existence of the ordinary essentials for healthy nutrition in the part is sufficient; the third is the object of our especial care, in the management of both part and system. Fibrinous serosity'—and then serum alone—trickles from the wound; the surface be- comes coated as if varnished with a thin layer of fibriaous lymph, invest- ing and binding together the cut surfaces. The medium of adhesion thus formed is soon found to consist of cells and nuclei; then fibro-plastic organization with the formation of new vessels takes place, and the uniting medium is ultimately composed of white fibrous tissue, which is incorporated with the cut surfaces on either side of the gap and restores their contiauity. In some instances where apposition of the divided surfaces is very closely maintained, and circumstances are otherwise favourable, adhesion may occur with scarcely any trace of connecting material; the divided parts uniting simply with each other, and all trace of a wound very shortly disappearing. But, in the greater number of instances, a small amount of new texture is formed; and this is almost always, as we have said, white fibrous tissue, whichever of the soft textures of the body may have been involved in the wound. Thus skin, muscle, nerve, and even cartilage, when wounded, are united in the majority of instances by this tissue; bone, however, being a remarkable exception to this law of the economy, as we shall see hereafter. Some have supposed that blood may prove an organizable material,, sufficient for adhesion; and that the presence of a coagulum, between the cut surfaces, may consequently be conducive to this result. There is good reason to believe, however, that practically such is not the case; that in the case of wounds the red corpuscles, and probably the greater part of the fibrin too, constituting the coagulum, are removed; and that the true plastic uniting material is the result of a new, and, as it were, special formation—due to the proliferation of the connective tissue corpuscles, which have been irritated by the direct injury inflicted on them by the wound. Coagulum, when at all considerable, is really a mechanical obstacle to the process of adlaesion ; and, under such circum- stances, is to be surgically considered a foreign body—offending, and to be removed. 3. Healing by growth: a slow but most effectual mode of repair.