1156 BUBO. require the active treatment, locally and generally, suitable to this form of disease in general; the clearing out of the primaj vise, followed by sedatives and anodynes ; stern use of an active escharotic, the character- istic moisture of the sore having been first removed ; strict rest, an anti- phlogistic regimen, and the use of iron internally; but, at the same time, a careful watching of the constitutional symptoms, lest typhoid tendency suddenly supervene, and stimulants become indispensable. Cover the part in a poultice, treating the case expectantly, as is the manner of some—serious mutilation will be the probable result. In the outset of an urgent case, one is tempted to imitate nature, and abstract blood. But, generally speaking, the experiment is a rash one; it may irreparably depress the system. While, however, bleeding from the system is unwarrantable, abstraction of blood may sometimes be made from the part, safely and well. A pendulous, half-dead portion of prepuce, soon about to slough wholly, may be cut off by the stroke of a bistoury ; and bleeding from the wound may be encouraged, to such an extent as may be deemed suitable and safe. Also, in every case where the undermined condition of the skin, the existence of a tumid prepuce, or any other local complication, renders efficient appKcation of the caustic to the whole of the ulcerating surface impossible, the knife or scissors should be employed as a preliminary means of exposing the part. Sometimes paraphymosis occurs ; as can be readily understood, on account of the swoln state of the parts. This must be instantly reme- died by replacement, if possible ; if not, a free liberating incision should be made on the dorsum of the penis, at the constricted part; otherwise, the progress of destruction cannot fail to be frightfully aggravated. After cicatrization has been completed, it may be in our power par- tially to remedy the damage done, by closing abnormal apertures in the urethra by means of autoplasty. Mercury is never advisable except in extremely obstinate examples of the indurated phagedenic form. In such circumstances, iron and quinine will always be advantageously combined with the mercurial, which should be employed with the greatest watchfulness. Bubo. Venereal Bubo may be of four kinds. 1. The sympathetic bubo due to simple inflammatory Adenitis, such as occurs in cases of acute gonor- ■ rhoea, and which may also complicate either of the forms of chancra 2. The specific or virulent bubo, which so frequently complicates the soft» form of chancre. 3. The multiple and indurated glandular enlargements,, which necessarily accompany the indurated chancre. 4. Scrofulous glan- ■ dular enlargement; due to the pre-existence of some som'ce of irritation,. venereal or otherwise, in the parts—the lymphatics of which communicate ? with the affected gland. These different forms of glandular enlargement may co-exist in the same glandular chain ; occurring at the same, or at different periods ; and hence causing at times considerable confusion in diagnosis and prognosis. In well-marked cases, they have sufficiently distinctive characters; and confusion need not be regarded as the rule, but rather as the exception.