852 TORTICOLLIS. ToHicoUis. Wry-nech. By this term is uiidei'stood a distortion of the neck, dependent on muscular disorder—spasm, paralysis, or change of structure. The muscle usually to blame is the sterno-clcido-mastoid. One, acting with the undue energy of spasm, overpowers its 'fellow, and displaces the neck accordingly—the back of the head being carried forwards on the affected side ; or one, affected with a loss of contractility, fails to afford the usual counteracting power to its fellow ; or, by the inflammatory process and its results, abbreviation and condensation of one or other muscle may occur, causing distortion of a very unpromising character ; or the malformation is congenital. Children, shortly after birth, are not unfrequently found to labour imder a certain amount of torticollis, from more or less complete paralj^sis of the muscle upon the side towards which the face is turned; in these cases the affected muscle seeming either to have been inadequately de- veloped, or somehow to have become partially paralyzed. Friction over the spine, and on the muscle which is weak—with care, on the part of the nurse, to exercise the faulty muscle by position of the head, yet without fatiguing the extensors—usually suffices to effect gradual but satisfactory amendment. In a similar state of matters, in the adolescent or adult, the endermic use of strychnine, or the injection into the muscular substance of a l-60th of a grain of the solution of the salt, or the electro-magnetic stimulus, may be had recourse to. Spasm of the muscle may be either temporary or permanent. The former most frequently occurs in children ; and is to be treated by pur- gatives and alteratives, followed by anti-spasmodics internally ; locally by fomentation, leeching, belladonna, and coimter-irritation. Permanent spastic rigidity of the muscle is more common in the adolescent and adult; perhaps a remote consequence of the former affection. Mercurial friction and active counter-irritation to the nape of the neck may be tried ; but with no sanguine hope of success. Such cases are, however, well suited for tenotomy ; and that not merely on account of the defor- mity, but to avoid a more serious evil—curvature of the spine—whicli often supervenes, and Avhich may, if unchecked, become both consider- able and confirmed. The operation to be really of service must be employed—^not in every case, but only in those where no paralysis of the opposite muscles is pre- sent, and when no permanent curvature in the cervical and dorsal vertebra; • is already superinduced. A division of the sterno-mastoid shoidd be performed about an inch above the sternal extremity of the claAncla Here the tense and prominent sternal portion of the muscle can easily be « included between the finger and thumb, and the tenotomy knife having been inserted either between the skin and the surface of the muscle, or beneath the muscular fibres, is carried backwards and forwards with a gentle sawing movement, till the gap between the ends of the muscle proves that all has been divided. In making the incision from without inwards, a careless operator might plunge deeply, and injm-e the artery and vein. This, however, is scarcely possible with anytlujig ai)proachijag to