248 SIMPLE ERYSIPELAS. swelling, the cicatrices are so minute and faint as to be almost or wholly invisible. They are more efficient, as antiphlogistics, than leeches, drawing the blood more copiously and rapidly; less apt to irri- tate ; and seldom if ever leaving any mark at all approaching to deformity. They fulfil a twofold indication. The majority are made to imphcate only the rete vasculosim ; their object being loss of blood, A few—and only a few such are necessary, the spaces of the areolar tissue freely inter-communicating—penetrate more deeply to the subjacent tissue ; their object beuig to drain off the serous fluid; so favouring vascular relief, and at the same time preventing the occurrence of untoward ten- sion. Hot fomentation is assiduously employed, for some time after infliction of the wounds ; being favourable to both indications. And if the flow of blood be not altogether satisfactory, it may be increased by the temporary application of a ligature on the cardiac aspect of the part. This practice, by puncture, may startle those who are practically unac- quainted with it; by its apparent severity. But this is only ideal We grant that in one j)oint (the infliction of temporary pain), it may be worse than leeching ; but in every other it is much and truly superior. Alarm- ing it may be, to the timid patient; but it is quickly over. A few seconds suffice; and the relief is both satisfactory and instant. In the more severe cases which demand its use, the pain of infliction is often the least. The acute pain, already existing in the part, masks that of the punctures ; in the same way as the operation of scarifying tense and painful gums seems, not uiifrequently, to be agreeable rather than other- wise to the teething child. During treatment, the erysipelatous part should be retained in an ele- vated posture, for obvious reasons ; when that is practicable. /: When abscess forms, whether during acute progress of the disease, or of secondary occurrence, an early opening is highly advisable; to save both skin and subjacent tissue. For although the abscess be not diffuse, and may be somewhat limited by plastic product, yet its tendency to rapid extension is greater than in ordinary circumstances. The afiection is, more or less, asthenic. So soon as the disease has begun to subside, there is often a neces- sity not only for discontinuance of general antiphlogistics, but for recourse to support of the system; as in the old, or in those of previously debili- tated frame, and when the affection is of an epidemic character. Wine is given, at first cautiously; with as much plain nutritious food as the stomach can easily digest. And be it remembered, that such tonic gene- ral treatment is, in such cases, not incompatible with continuance or re- sumption of local antiplologistics; should these be demanded by the state of the part. Sometimes wine must bo given from the first. In no other way may old or otherwise worn-out frames make head against the asthenic consti- tutional symptoms, which sometimes not only accompany but precede the attack. To save texture, and arrest disease, it may be necessary to punc- ture and poultice ; while, to maintain life, it is at the same time essential to administer stimulants internally. On reflection, the practice will not be found so paradoxical as it may at fii'st seem.