883 TRACnEOTOMT. AVlicn no tube or canula is available, a thin piece of wood introduced longitudinally, and then turned on its axis—or the common dissecting forceps lodged, and then tnrned on themselves—will suffice to maintain patency of the incision and free access of air to the larynx. There will seldom be any trouble by hemorrhage. Tracheotomy. This operation may be performed anywhere between the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage and the notch of the sternum. The existence, however, of the isthmus of the thyroid gland, dividing the space into two parts, requires the consideration of a high and a low operation of trache- otomy ; the high, between the cricoid cartilage and the upper margin of the isthmus of the thyroid gland; the low, between the isthmus of the thyroid gland and the upper margin of the sternum. The high operation is appropriate to the cases of injury of the larynx, of mere spasm of the glottis, of foreign bodies lodged in the larynx, and to all the inflamma- tory affections unattended by croupous formation. The lower is better suited to foreign bodies moving up and down the canal, or impacted in the lower part of the trachea or bronchi; and for croup, where our object is to get beyond the part most liable to the membranous formation. In either operation, the patient having been placed as for laryngotomy, an. incision is made in the mesial line of the lower part of the neck, from an inch and a half to two inches in length; in the upper operation, its extremity terminating a little above the cricoid cartilage. . Skin, fat, and fascia having been divided, carefully avoiding the bulging veins lest they should be wounded, the commissure of the sterno-hyoid muscles is ex- posed ; and this is separated by the handle of the knife. The tracheal rings are made bare by a little further dissection; detachment of the areolar investment being effected by either the point or handle of the knife, according to circumstances, and the thyroid gland drawn downwards by means of a blunt hook if necessary, care, at all events, being taken avoid wounding its texture. In the lower operation the incision commences about two inches hove the jugular notch of the sternum, and is carried down to its upper lai^n. The superficial dissection is the same ; only the anterior jugular eins, being larger, and their branches more numerous and more in the ay, require even greater care to keep them free of injury; and after ividing the fascia, the sterno-mastoid muscles bulging forwards in- rease the depth of the wound. After opening the deep fascia and eparating the sterno-thyroid muscles, the trachea, instead of lying close eneath, and easily recognised by its continuity with the cricoid cartilage, es deeply, and is not so readily seen or felt. Here, besides, are the ferior thyroid veins, possibly also the thyroidea hna artery ; and by partial or complete abnormality in the distribution of the larger essels of the neck, they too may be in risk, unless the operator is care- i to see or feel everything before he cuts it. The isthnms of the Foid gland, in females, and the same part with the still larger thymus, "'^er the operation still more difficult in very young and tender chil- , as in these the soft trachoal structures are sometimes easily over-