SCLEKUTITIS. knife. The point of the blade is introduced as for extraction, tliroiiyl the true corneal structures, entering the aqueous chamber parallel to the ii-is, when, turning the blade slightly on its axis, a gush of ^aqueous humour occurs, and the tense and prominent cornea flattens. The pro- lapse of the iris, Avith due care, should not come in contact with the i knife, or become entangled in the puncture as the blade is withdrawn, u Sometimes severe neuralgic pain immediately follows the evacuation of . the aqueous fluid; but this soon passes off, leaving the patient relieved Q from all the pain and uneasiness produced by the disease. In many 5 cases, the large and tense anterior chamber is symptomatic of the com- 0 mencing stages of a diffuse intraocular inflammatory affection called p crlaucoma, for which various operative procedures have been recommended 1 within the last few years. J Affections of the Sclerotic Goat. ''■ Sclerotitis. d This, in the Acute form, may occur as part of a general inflammatory jjj j process, however excited. We have already described it as symptomatic >| I of keratitis; we shall find it occurring in every case of iritis. Not unfrequently, it exists j:)e?' se, and then it has very generally been called rheumatic ophthalmia; and that not because it was either a metastatic result of a rheumatic attack, or only occurred in persons of a rheumatic idiathesis, but because exposure to cold has usually proved the exciting jcause. It is most frequent in the adult, and about the middle period of B, and is often limited to one eye. Vision is always impaired. Pain complained of, of a dull, aching kind;. increased by pressure, and by ovement of the globe; partly referred to the eye, but mainly to the brehead and temple, along the course of the fifth nerve ; and marked xacerbation occurs at night. At the commencement of the disease, the ye feels hot and dry, and this condition may continue to the termination f the attack; but in some cases, the subsidence of the acute symptoms accompanied by an increased secretion of tears ; and when complicated y the existence of catarrhal ophthalmia, the copious lachrymation is constant accompaniment of the sympathetic pain and other characters f the sclerotic inflammatory process. There is, generally, however, in ure cases of sclerotitis, little lachrymation or intolerance of light. The derotic vessels are seen enlarged, radiating in straight lines outwards, nd forming a vascular zone of a pink hue, around the circumference f the cornea (Fig. 246, p. 672). In some cases, a narrow white lino ften encircles the cornea, leaving a space between it and the pink |one.^ In other instances, the pink zone advances to the very corneal argin, and sometimes even invades its texture. The tint, too, is not ways of the carmine pink colour, but has frequently a violet hue; yet cannot be mistaken for the network, of a vermilion tint, Avliich is so unently characteristic of conjunctival affection. There is always a consid- 'ible degree of general febrile excitement, accompanied with gastro-hepatic ;rangcment, indicated by thirst, a foul tongue, and complete anorexia, ot unfrequently, the pupil is contracted, and incapable of its wonted