ACTIVE CONGESTION. 73 cTveater. Or the congestion simply persists, and with it occurs further change of structure. The serous product contains more or less fibrin m solution ; and the increased cell-proliferation threat3ns by becoming permanent to induce serious results by impairing function; as in the parenchyma of an important internal organ. Or, on the contrary, such an issue may be most salutary; as in the healing of wounds and ulcers, more especially by granulation. If congestion occur suddenly, and texture be delicate as well as vascular, liemorrhage is not unlikely. If on a free surface, as mucous membrane, no harm but benefit ensues; it is a spontaneous depletion, probably critical, and ought not to be rashly thwarted. To check sucb a flow prematurely may be virtually to convert, according to circum- stances, hemoptysis into pneumonia or apoplexy of the lung, hemate- mesis into gastritis or enteritis, menorrhagia into metritis; that is, pre- venting resolution, and compelling advance of the disease. If, on the other hand, the vessels give way in the substance of an important organ, such as the brain or retina, nothing but evil can follow such extravasa- tion ; it is by all means to be avoided. Treatment is gently antiphlogistic. Blood-letting from, the part; general blood-letting, when the texture affected is internal and important, and especially if tendency to copious hemorrhage and extravasation be dreaded—as in tbe lungs; antimonials; saline purgatives; rest; fomen- tation; position; and the antiphlogistic regimen. Should the affection threaten to become chronic, counter-irritation is to be employed. Eor the morbid results, in external parts, pressure, friction, and other means of stimulating absorption, are appropriate; should the natural effort of the part, when relieved from active disease, not prove sufiicient. But, usually, unless the congestion have been long sustained, all the serous or fluid part of the inflammatory results is readily taken up by the spontane- ous act of absorption, so soon as the active disease has ceased. For example, much effusion may have taken place into a serous cavity; but by suitable antiphlogistics the congestion has been subdued; and, very shortly afterwards, the whole of that acute dropsy will probably have disappeared spontaneously. Thus, simple hydrocele is got rid of The original chronic serous collection is removed, by tapping; stimulation is applied to the serous surface, by injection; acute collection of serum takes place, and distends the cavity again; but, on subsidence of the artificially induced irritation, this serum quickly disappears; and it is seldom that any re- accumulation even threatens, a healthful balance having been established thenceforth between absorption and exhalation. Passive Congestion.—This may follow an imperfect resolution of the Active form, as the Chronic inflammatory process follows the Acute, Or it may be original, unpreceded by any active change. In the Active form, the nutrition of the textures becoming exaggerated, the circulation in the blood-vessels of the part is modified from a cause inherent in the part itself, while a tolerably vigorous circulation continues in and around; in the Passive, the obstructing cause may exist in the part, but not necessarily—the dilatation and sluggish circulation being main- tamed in such cases by the debilitated or depressed nutrition of the part. As the vital interchange between the textures and the blood is