46 REACTION. general circulation. If syncope occur, reaction is almost certain to pro\'e excessive; whereas, if the immediate result he less extreme, it is more easily retained. Besides, a faint may prove in itself somewhat dangerous ; if there he either organic disease in the heart, or considerable effusion in the pericardium, cessation of the heart's action may prove permanent. So soon, therefore, as the symptoms of approaching syncope show tliem- selves, we usually desist; when the patient grows pale, and articulates faintly and with difficulty; when he begins to fail from the semi-erect posture, sighs, and shews signs of nausea; when the lips grow dry, wliite, and quivering, the eyes dull and glassy, and a cold sweat bedews the face and forehead; when the pulse becomes weak and fluttering—then we bind up the arm, and place him gently recumbent. About twenty ounces may be estimated a fair average first bleeding, in the case of acute sthenic disease in a robust adult; but, in general, as already stated, it is better to keep mechanical admeasurement altogether out of the question. From depression by bleeding, the circulating system rouses itself, more or less rapidly; and the result is termed Reaction. This either remains of a tolerably quiet and subdued character, the inflammatory process having simply given way; or it becomes excessive. And ex- cessive reaction may be of two kinds. 1. It may be of an asthenic or nervous character ; indicated by rapid, soft, and jerking pulse, oppressed breathing, headache, and tinnitus aurium, general nervous excitement, and non-return of the ordinary ^inflammatory symptoms—a state of system very similar to what follows accidental loss of blood in large quantity. To bleed again, would be to aggravate such disorder. A full opiate is administered; the nervous excitement is allayed; the patient falls asleep, and may awake with a calm pulse and system, reheved as if by the working of a charm. The opium here does not create the sedative impression on the circulation; given by itself, most probably it would not only have failed to quiet, but would have increased the tumult; but, coming after bleeding, it restores the sedative result which this had achieved, but was unable singly to maintain. 2. But reaction may be of an opposite kind—sthenic; in fact, a continuance or xeaccession of the inflammatory attack. The pnlse is hard and vibratory as before ; the fever still retains the inflammatory character; local heat and pain are unsubdued. The inflammatory process has been interrupted, but not arrested; remission proves but transient; and the reaccession may be even more fierce than the original onset. This state may have to be met again by the lancet. And a few ounces, drawn then, will often suffice to restore the sedative effect of the former bleeding; while double the original amount may fail to make a satisfactory impression, after time has been allowed for the reaccession to make head and be estabhshed. The paramount importance of Time, in connection ■with blood-letting as an antiphlogistic, should never be forgotten • whether it be practised to crush the rally, or to meet the original attack. Comparatively speak- ing, one full bleeding of ounces, dl■a^vn early—just at the onset—will be far more available, as a remedial agent, than pounds taken at a subsequent period. In consequence of delay, not only AviU the cure be less complete and satisfactory—change of structure having occurred by cell-prolifera- tion, and restoration proving both gradual and incomplete ; but, besides,