FRACTURE OF THE HUMERUS. 918 the side, when the fingers are placed in the axilla and the arm abducted and a depression plainly perceived at a corresponding point in the exter- nal outhne of the limb; the arm powerless and shortened; the elbow sliglitly abducted, more especially if the fracture is oblique ; and crepitus on rotation after adjustment. When impaction in this form of fracture takes place, tlie upper and inner part of the shaft is driven into the can- cellated texture of the head of the bone ; and then the characters of tlie injury are less distinctly marked. In such circumstances, by grasping firmly the head of the bone so as to fix it, by both bands if need be, while an assistant firmly rotates the elbow, the crepitus characteristic of fracture will seldom fail to be elicited. 4. Fracture of the larger Tubercle.—This is the result of direct violence. The deltoid region is flattened and remarkably increased in width, sometimes appearing nearly twice as broad as in the normal state; the acromion projects somewhat, but the finger cannot be sunk mto the glenoid cavity; the arm, powerless as to elevation, hangs slightly sepa- rated from the side, but easily approximated to it; and two hard swell- ings are to be felt ; one, the larger, a little internal to and beneath the coracoid process, is the rounded head of the bone ; the other, beneath the acromion, is the detached tubercle, the bicipital groove marking the line of separation. The symptoms closely resemble those of sub-coracoid dislocation, but are easily distinguished by the ease with which the defor- mity and displacement are partially, but not completely, removed, and by the greatly increased width of the deltoid region. Treatment of Fractures of the Neck of the Humerus.—The indica- tions here are threefold; \st^ To prevent displacement of the upper part of the shaft of the bone inwards towards the coracoid; 2cZ, To brace and keep the fractured surfaces in contact; and 3c?, To maintain repose dur- ing consolidation. The practical details may be carried out in different ways, according to the site of the fracture and the degree and nature of the displacement In most cases, the angular pad in the axilla, a sling to support the wrist, the elbow pendent to efi"ect extension by its weight, while the arm is confined against the side by the broad bandage encircling both it and the chest, will be found suitable, and easily ob- tained and applied. Some surgeons, as a means of securing more efficient repose, recommend a horse-hair cushion about six inches wide, extending from the axilla to a Httle above the inner condyle. For the same object Mr. Erichsen recommends a bend-leather sphnt, about two feet long by six inches broad, doubled upon itself, so that the angle at the double, well padded, fills the axilla, while the rest of the splint occupies the interval between the arm and side. By some surgeons spHnts ai-e applied on both the outer and inner aspects of the arm, or on the outer aspect alone—as an adjunct to the pad, shng, and body bandage. Such splints can only act upon the lower fragment, and be of use by rendering the limb steadier than it otherwise might be. Their cmploymeul should therefore be restricted to the case of restless, irritable, or juveiule patients. Cases sometimes occur where, from the completeness of the displacc- mont of the npper fragment by rotation upwards and outwards, coapta- tion of the fractured surfaces can only be secured by completely abducting i