ULCER OF THE CORNEA. 687 ration of a pad of cotton wadding, by supporting tlio lids and keeping liiom at rest, saves the tender cornea from irritation. In the healing sore, we must content ourselves with watching the natural process of cure, lud carefully guarding against rcaccession of the inllammatory attack; i,v exclusion of light and other stimuli, by regulation of diet, and by 'lo continued use of soothing applications. In the irritable and deeply- vcavated sore, nothing is so useful as the nitrate of silver ; applied lightly and carefully to the ulcer, in powder, by means of a moist hair '"ucil. The application is repeated every second or third day, until the . itabihty ceases; or the interval is shortened or increased, as circum- inces may seem to require. When either the irritable or inflamed iudition threatens to prove obstinate, great benefit often is derived from unter-irritation by blistering the temple or behind the ear. For the ulolent sore, the various stimulant collyria are suitable, and constitu- . Loual treatment indispensable. As a general rule, the preparations of lead should never be employed , collyi'ia, in the case of ulcer of the cornea. An insoluble chloride of ad wiU be formed; and this, becoming entangled in the cicatrix, wiU t uder it more irremediably opaque than it otherwise would have been. The sustained use of nitrate of silver, also, should be conducted with lution ; lest an ohve-coloured stain ensue. When the ulcer is deep, acute, and situate near the centre of the cornea, phere is great risk of perforation of the inner layer, escape of the aqueous mnour, and protrusion of the free margin of the iris, to a greater or less ixtent. To obviate this last accident, as much as possible, belladonna or .tropine solution is employed to maintain a dilated state of the pupil; so hat the margin of the iris may be retracted, out of harm's way, ere the erforation occurs. If, however, the site of ulcer be towards the circum- srence, the use of belladonna would probably be prejudicial. In all uch cases, by puncturing the cornea, at its outer margin, the perfora- ,on of the sore may be prevented; or should it occur, the absence of e sudden gush of aqueous humour will avoid the implication of the 'is in the opening. Previously to completion of the ulcerated aperture, the posterior [lastic layer of the cornea sometimes protrudes, in the form of a small sparent vesicle; this condition is termed Hernia of the Cornea. It recognised by its transparency, and the absence of collapse of the pmea. It should be treated on the same principles as the ulcer about perforate ; and if the patient will not permit paracentesis to be em- iloyed, the pad of cotton wadding retained by a strip of plaster, or a 'et, should be used to support the cornea and protect it from friction. Sometimes the perforating ulcer heals only in part; contracts, but ^les not close; becoming a fistulous aperture, through which the aqueous imour continues to escape. This is remedied by the occasional appli- tion of nitrate of silver, in powder, by means of a moistened and minted hair pencil; and by a tonic system of treatment constitutionally. The iris, protruding through the perforated cornea, forms a black mour, usually of no great size; bearing a slight resemblance to the ead of a fly; and therefore termed Myocephalon. Sometimes the iris loes not protrude, but simply rests upon the aperture, and closes it up ;