178 SCIRRIIUS. nally simple mass for some time remains uninvolved, but ultimately disappears in the general invasion of structure. The term Cancer is sometimes used specially to denote the open or ulcerated condition of Scirrhus. The tumour, liaving approached the surface, softens in some parts of its interior; the scirrhous textui-e be- coming broken down, pulpy, and often mixed with blood. This process of softening and disintegration—the result, possibly, of an inflammatory process—certainly consisting of rapid cell formation and fatty disintegra- tion—spreads outwards; and, by its agency, an ulcer is in due time effected. There is no sprouting fungus, as in the medullary tumour; for the morbid structure is devoid of elasticity, as well as less rapid in its production. The sore widens and deepens ; the scirrhous texture, where exposed, continues to crumble down; and the reparative efforts which are occasionally made shew only a few, straggling, hard eminences, which quickly fall away under fi'esh ulceration. While, however, reparative efforts are few, and wholly ineffectual—as regards healing—reproduction as regards the diseased structure is constant and efficient. Portions of the tumour may come away, not in particles, but in masses; but gene- rally there is little or no diminution or abatement of the disease, in con- sequence ; the place is soon occupied by fresh formation, and the onward Fig. 67. Fig. 66. Pig. 69. Fig. 68. progress is unchecked. Sometimes, however, the idceration advances rapidly, without reproduction, forming a deep and cavernous hole. The characters of the cancerous ulcer are very pecuHar; and, once seen, can scarcely again be mistaken. The edges are hard, semted, and Fig. 66. Portion of the sectiou from a scirrhous tumoiu" of the breast; consisting of connective tissue and cavities, enclosing cancer cells and granules. Fig. 67. Another portion of the same section treated with acetic acid. The connective tissue is rendered more transparent, and its elongated cells are more visible. The nuclei of the cancer-cells are unchanged, while their walls are very transparent. Fig. 68. Cancer cells from the cream-like juice squeezed from the tumour. Fig. 69. The same after the addition of acetic acid.—Bennett.