1070 CYSTINURIA. yet light and moderate ; consisting chiefly of solids. Acescent vegetables fruits, and drinks, are injurious; for, however useful the mineral acids, taken from without, may be, acids engendered within invariably betoken derangement of stomach, and that as invariably reacts most untowardly on the iirinary organs. Wine may be taken sparingly. Over-exertion in any way is avoided ; free air and laxity of occupation are to be sought; and the skin's function must be well looked to. The bowels are regu- lated ; but mercury and saline purges do harm. Diuretics are not given; neither arc alkalies—unless indeed the acids of indigestion plainly ai'e troublesome, and then very small and occasional doses of alkali may be of service. Depletion, in any way, is not to be thought of. Opium is of much service; by subduing the irritability of system. General tonics are plainly indicated. And the decoctions of the diosma crenata, pareira brava, and uva ursi, would seem to exert a beneficial influence specially on the urinary system. The Cystine or Cystic Oxide Deposit.—This deposit is rare; but as Fig. 325. it causes one of the most obstinate forms of the calculous diathesis, it is necessary to mention it here. Cystine is always crystaUine, though to the naked eye it scarcely appears so, having more resemblance to the paler forms of lithate of ammonia. It forms a yellowish sediment, insoluble by heat, unaffected by vegetable acids, but dissolved by strong mineral acids and alkalies. Ammonia dissolves it very readily, and on evapora- tion deposits it unchanged in the crystalline form. Under the microscope cystine appears in the form of hexagonal plates, often overlapping each other so as to form rather a confused mass. The ammoniacal solution, slowly evaporated, gives crystals which can usually be distinguished from all others without difficulty. Urine containing cystine is usually of a more or less deep yellow colour, sometimes inclining to green. Dr. Golding Bird has even seen it o-rass-wreen. Its odour is either aromatic like that of sweet briar, or Fig. 325. Crystals of cystine.