TREATMENT OF NECROSIS. 312 elapsed—varying in different cases, according to the circumstances of each—does consolidation of the substitute occur; sufficient to restore not only the appearance, hut the function of the bone affected. Not until then, should the patient be permitted to employ the limb with any degree of freedom. And, indeed, in many cases, in Avhich temporary weakness of the new formation is peculiarly manifest, it is well not to leave immunity from function at the discretion of the patient; but to insure this, and at the same time afford an adventitious support from without, by incasing the affected portion of the limb in splints and bandaging. As already stated, similar care is not unfrequcntly demanded tluring the latter part of the stage of separation; for then, aLso, the bone is weak, and prone on exertion either to bend or break. At neither period, however, let the limb be kept constantly rigid and unmoved. From time to time, let the articulations be suppled by gentle and passive motion ; otherwise, stiffness, or even actual change of structure by disease, may be induced. Superficial exfoliation may sometimes be hastened. But this is only an exception to the general rule, of non-interference previous to the com- pletion of detachment. When a thin shell of bone, for example, is coming slowly away from the calvarium, it may sometuues be expedited by applying an escharotic, such as the chloride of zinc; taking care that the application is limited to the dead portion, and its very immediate vicinity. Again, after detachment has been completed, a superficial exfoHation of the skull may seem fixed. It cannot be by cortical formation ; for, in the cranium, this is seldom if ever produced. It may be the result either of redundant granulation, or of atmospheric pressure. Granula- tions may have sprung up from the surrounding parts, both hard and soft, but especially from the latter, to such an extent as to partially over- lay the dead portion of bone ; confining it to its place, even though wholly freed from attachment beneath. In such a case, the redundant soft parts are to be freely pushed aside, by the knife or probe; and the bone, thus liberated, is then removed. Atmospheric pressiu'e, when the cause of undue retention, may be overcome, by fixing a screw in the dead part, and thereby elevating one portion so as to admit the air be- neath ; then it is loosened in every way, and can be readily lifted from its place. Amputation is sometimes demanded, though rarely, in necrosis. It is the exception, not the rule. It may happen that in acute necrosis of the young, violent inflammatory is followed by severe irritative fever; and that both are quickly succeeded by a formidable hectic, which must plainly be relieved, at all hazards, by removal of its cause. Under such circumstances, it may become not only expedient, but imperative, to take off the limb ; perhaps very shortly after the first accession of the disease; while the recently dead bone is yet freshly bathed in pus, and when the process of separation has but just begun. Or, in the more chronic cases, a Idee summary procedure may be required at a fixr more distant date; after not only weeks but months have elapsed ; when the sepai-ation has become far advanced, but is not yet complete; after the system has long borne up nobly, under the exhausting burden of irritation and discharge;