299 NECROSIS. a Fig. 123. a Fig. 124. but as plu<--like masses of granulation ; leaving behind a pit-like de- pression oi° fovea. By a gradual transformation of the living osseous substance along the line of junction ot the dead with the living, into a similar soft granulation-rnaterial, the line of separation becomes a continuous trench. This goes on deepening; and the soft substance which occupies its hollow, while firmly connected with the living bone, has no further connection with the dead than mere juxtaposition. " The whole pro- cess of separation is a degenerative ostitis, in which the osseous tissue changes its character; losing its chemical and mor- phological characters, it becomes con- verted into a soft tissue, which no longer contains bone." As in the similar process in soft parts, separation of the dead from the living does not proceed alone. Eeparation fol- lows quicldy on its heel. And no sooner has the primitive sulcus been formed by the work of degenerative change, than granulation - tissue begins to spread, from the periosteal margin, where it remained attached to the bone, along the visceral aspect of the periosteum which had separated from the dead portion. Here the proliferation of the cell structures gives rise to the formation of a granulation-material which is rich in cells, more especially young cells; and in this respect, as well as in the absence of all fatty degeneration, it is distinguished from the soft substance into which the osseous elements were transformed along the line of separation from the dead bone. These granulations do not, however, continue long as such. As the osseous-tissue becomes converted into granulation-tissue, so the granula- tion-tissue formed from the osseous elements attached to the periosteum becomes transformed into bone; ready in some degree to occupy the place of the dead portion when separation is completed. The stage of separation commenced immediately on the completion of that of death ; and the former was not well begun, ere the work of reproduction had laid its own foundation. Separation, it has been stated, is invariably slow; and it is well that it is so. For the formation of new bone, to supply the place of the old which has perished and must be thrown away, is also a process inevitably tedious, even although early begun. The two—separation of the old, and production of the new—advance together; and it is surely a most beneficial and wise arrangement, which has decreed that the one shall Fig. 123. Necrosis of the femur, after amputation. At a, the sequestiiim in pro- cess of separation. At b, the parent bone enlarged, and undergoing inflammatory change, necessary for detachment and repair. Fig. 124. The sequestrum detached ; at its lowest part, a, including the whole thickness of the bone. Gradually shelving upwards, as such sequestra usually do.