785 EXTIEPATION OF THE LOWER JAW. In cystic disease of the lower jaw, the irregular ovoid form and vaiy- ing resistance of the crackling walls of the tumour, under the pressure of tlio surgeon's fingers, will usually suffice to indicate what is the nature of the formation. Where this consists of one, or at most a few large cysts, the hest practice is to lay them freely open by means of a stout bistoury and curved scissors, or cutting-pliers, and stuff the cavity; then, after the subsidence of the inflammatory elfects following upon this manipulation, contraction of the expanded bone will generally ensue, and the parts be restored to nearly their normal condition. When, how- ever, this has been fairly attempted and failed, when the cysts are numerous and endogenous, and cystic growths are felt to exist in the walls of the larger cysts—and when especially there is a solid tumour combined with the cystic formation—excision of the whole extent of bone implicated in the disease should be practised without further delay. Tlie solid tumours require the same treatment as in the upper jaw. I But, with this difference, that, in consequence of the relative anatomy of the parts, complete ablation of a medullary growth is within our power at a much more advanced period, than in the case of the superior maxilla; inasmuch as, if the soft parts are not involved, the whole diseased struc- ture of bone is included, and can be taken away by removal of the con- [dyles of the bone. The simple Osteoma, or hyperplastic osseous development, occurs in Ithe lower jaw; and should be distinguished from progressively enlarging jmorbid formations in this part—the bony thickening usually yielding to the removal of any local source of irritation, the employment of counter- citation, and the administration of iodine. Should these fail, a grave ispicion may be excited that a tumour developing within the bone really exists, requiring then, if the enlargement continues progressively m the increase, the extirpation of the affected part. Epithelial Cancer affecting the lower lip may extend along the lucous membrane, and at a comparatively early period implicate the Iveolar portion of the symphysis. In such cases, if no glandular enlarge- lent forbids operation, the portion of bone implicated may be removed ^long with the lip. In one case where a single gland was enlarged and p,ttached to the inner aspect of the jaw, removal of the lip, jaw, and ^land in one mass, was followed by a satisfactory result. TJie lower jaw is sometimes the seat of osteo-aneurism. The disease |s liable to be mistaken for a cystic affection of the bone, and accord- igly incisions have been made into the enlargement under the impression lhat the tumour was of the cystic kind. Wlien the true nature of the lisease becomes apparent, removal of that half of the jaw in which ' occurs should be practised. Extirpation of the Lower Jaw. Excision of the whole bone from condyle to condyle has been prac- sed, as a single operation, on account of tumour, in at aU events two lases; one by Walther of Bonn with a successful result, the other by %r. Symo in November 1843. The whole bone has, however, been pequently removed by two operations; the second being required on 3 E