A GENEEAL VIEW OF THE SUBJECT. 1199 which wo have adverted, in this somewhat lengthened exposition of the treatment of the indurated chancre and its consequences, we would : 1. Eeiterate, that constitutional treatment should rarely be employed until the constitutional symptoms begin to manifest themselves in the form of an eruption; local treatment usually sufficing for the indurated sore. 2. That secondary symptoms undoubtedly disappear more rapidly under the regulated use of mercurials, than from any other plan of treat- ment. That, by their continuance, immunity from the risk of relapse cannot be promised ; but that a six months' continued administration of mercurial treatment, followed by three months of iodide of potassium, is more likely to secure this than any other medicinal methods devised. 3. That iodide of potassium is a remedy of real value, only in the tertiary stage of the disease. 4. That warm bathing, purgatives, hygiene, and dietetics, are very important adjuvants in treatment. 5. That syphilization is a trustworthy plan of cure, and deserves more extended application to the treatment of syphilis. That its pro- gress is gradual, and calculated to interfere little, if at all, with the ordi- nary life and habits of a patient; any uneasiness arising from its use rarely lasting beyond the first fortnight. 6. That as the virus employed in so called syphilization is really that of the soft chancre, which is a merely local disease, this method had better be denominated Chancrizcdion, as better indicating what is meant by the process, and as asserting a duality instead of the generally ad- mitted unity of the chancrous virus. 7. That there is good reason to suppose that the use of any pyogenic irritant would ejffect an equally satisfactory result; the virus of the soft chancre being convenient for the purpose, merely because the sores which form suppurate freely and remain for a long time open. 8. That by no method of treatment can a patient be considered so free from all tendency to the evolution of symptoms, as to be regarded secure against their reappearance ; and that for reasons to be mentioned immediately. Such patients, therefore, should not be permitted to marry for at least a year after the commencement of the infection. Infantile Syphilis. Syphilis, as it occurs in young children, may either be congenital or acquired. In the former there is no lesion of the surface by which the poison has gained access to the system; in the latter there is precisely as in the adult, except as regards site, a local point of departure in the form of an indurated chancre from which the poison radiates its in- fluence throughout the system. The Congenital infection may be due either to (1) the father, or to (2) the mother, or to (3) both parents being under the influence of secondary syphilis at the period of conception. In some cases again, it may be induced by the (4) mother becoming infected after conception has occurred. The acquired Syphilis of infants is usually acknowledged to be due to