985 AFFECTIONS OF THE MAMMILLA. by strips of acUiesive plaster, by a folded towel, by a handkerchief, or by a single turn of a bandage pinned across the chest. The wound is afterwards to be treated in the ordinary way; the arm being kept close to the side, and perfectly still during the progress of cicatrization. Affectiom of the Mammilla. The Mamrnilla of the male is liable to hypertrophy and to malignant disease. In the one case, discussives are expedient; the other demands free and early ablation. Also, when hypertrophy is advancing, is at- tended with neuralgic pain, and creates anxiety in the mind of the patient, the enlarged gland should be removed. One or both glands may be thus affected, and require attention. The nipple of the female is also liable to hypertrophy, and malignant disease. In the former case no direct interference is required; in the other, there is safety in nothing short of summary removal—not only of the nipple itself, but of the mamma also. There is one case, however, in which it is unnecessary to sacrifice more than the former;—when the nipple has been hypertrophied many years, and begins to degenerate in structure. Such degeneration usually commences in, and is at first limited to, the apex ; and, in such a case, to cut at the root of the nipple is to cut in sound parts. The fissured and excoriated nipple during lactation is an affection as frequent as distressing. A bare enumeration of "infallible cures" would occupy much space. Suffice it here to say that the same treat- ment is necessary as in inflamed and irritable sores, modified by regard to the uses of the part. During application of the child, the nipple is guarded by a shield ; and in the interval, while the nipple is protected from imdue pressure of the dress—a gutta percha shield, half an inch in tliickness, with a suitable central aperture, being best suited for this purpose—some of the many remedies are applied, which are not likely to injure the child, while at the same time they tend to soothe and heal the affected part;—of these, an ointment composed of wax, almond oil, and Peruvian balsam, being probably as good as any other. In the slighter cases, brandy and Lime-water will be found a satisfactory applica- tion, used each time the child is removed.