288 ULGEll OF BONE. sluTaco of the bono around tlio area of tlie ulcerative change is more or less coi)iously studded, and the supply of such new material is usually in proportion to the continuance of the irritation. When tlie in-itation attending on the ulcerative process ceases, all further marginal formation of bone ceases too ; and in most instances the spicula become absorbed, ■while the granulatiiig sm-face, lately the site of ulceration, becomes to some extent converted into a thin layer of new bone. The surrounding bone, being an inelastic texture, does little towards diminution of the chasm by centripetal movement. Something, however, is effected by absorption. While the excavated surface is scantily developing new osseous matter, interstitial absorption is advancing in the margins, wliicli are, as it were, bevelled off thereby ; and, lllll^fcfe,, ceasing to be either occupied by new osseous mtm^^ developments, or even to retain their formei' miliim//m:-. l^ealthy elevation, they slope gradually to-wards the central depression. Thus, partly by repara- tion of the surface of the ulcer, partly from levellmg of the surrounding margins by absorp- tion, the cavity comes to be gi-adually dimi- nished ; and the superimposed soft parts, mean- while busy in bringing themselves into a state suited to granulating repair, now coalesce with „„ the osseous granules beneath,'^ and interweave Pig. 112. '-'. . ' ^ hard texture with soft, into a fibrous substance; which, ultimately skinning over, gives a firm, depressed, soHd, white, permanent cicatrix. Sometimes the soft parts heal by themselves, independent!)' of the bone ; filming over, while the ulcer beneath is yet unclosed The cicatrix then is elevated, movable, evidently unconnected "v\T.th the bone, livid, soft, and painful; certain soon to be undone, by reaccession of the advanced infiammatory process; disclosing the ulcer beneath, perhaps wider and deeper than before. Ulcer of bone, though originally simple, and well-disposed to heal, may, from its extent, its site, or by reaccession of the inflammatory process—and consequent vacillation in its progress—degenerate into a Aveak or indolent condition, tardy and inefficient in repair; as happens, under similar circumstances, in the soft parts. Treatment is conducted on principles ^^recisely similar to those whicli regulate that of the cutaneous sore. Eest, water-dressing, and antiplilo- gistic regimen, during the inflammatory and ulcerative stages ; not for- getting removal of any obvious cause at the outset; then water-dressing, medicated so as to gently stimulate ; external support by uniform bandaging ; and maintenance of the vis vitcB by suitable regimen, so as to insui'e activity of repair. 2. Caries.—This may follow on the simple sore. More frequently it is original. It is something more than a weak ulcer of bone. With Fig. 112. Ulcer of cranium, healed. The margins bevelled olF, and sloping down. The surface studded with imperfect granulation. From the same rraninm as Figs. 30, 40.