1124 INJURIES OF THE BLM)DER. distinct. Should tho glans penis be found swoln, liard, and blackening, it is a sign of the corpus spongiosum being iuliltrated, and an omen of most sinister import. In such cases, an early and free incision, in the centre of the perineum, affords the only chance of relief and safety the knife being pushed determinedly down, so as not merely to expose the surface of the infiltrated parts, but also to lay bare the source of extravasation. When the giving way has occurred at a point anterior to the deep fascia, the case is more plain and less hazardous. The scrotum, and the integument of the penis, and the lower part of the abdominal parietes— not always tho perineum—sometimes the inside of the thighs, become rapidly swoln, and of a dark red hue ; then the integument blackens, crepitates, and sloughs ; and, as the sloughs separate, urine and foetid sanies flow away. Long before this open state, however, the olfactory organs alone are sufficient for diagnosis. In this case, the incisions do not require to extend so deeply, but are more numerous and extensive ; leaving no part of the infiltrated textures without a free outward open- ing. Poultice and fomentation follow the knife ; usually with active " support of the system. In a day or two the poultice is superseded by water-dressing; and this again is medicated by the chlorurets. Imme- diate hazard having been got over, and the parts having passed from excite- ment, means are taken to overcome the cause of the accident, and to restore the urethra to its normal condition. In the great majority of tight stricture is found anterior to the site of ulceration. But urinous irruption does not always take place directly from the urethra; urinous abscess may have formed, as the first result of the stricture ; and then, the parietes of this abscess having yielded, extrava- sation takes place outwardly. The consequences and treatment are the same as in the direct and ordinary variety. Injuries of the Bladder. This viscus may suffer in various ways, by the hand of the surgeon. In lithotomy it may be unnecessarily cut, or bruised and torn by the forceps or scoop. In lithotripsy, it may be pinched, bruised, or torn, by a rash and inexperienced operator. Ey the catheter, too, it may sustain hurt. The risks are hemorrhage and inflammatory change; to be obviated by the means already considered. Not unfrequently, the bladder suffers by accident. The pelvis is broken; and a spiculum of bone, projecting inwards, is Hable to pene- trate the viscus, more especially if it happen to be distended with urine. Urinary infiltration can scarcely fail to occur ; and probably to such an extent as to prove rapidly fatal. Or laceration may take place, in conse- quence of a blow or bruise; and it is well to remember, that this result may follow an application of violence apparently by no means great, if the bladder happen to bo at the time full of urine. Blows, kicks, fiiUs, have often proved thus fatal; and in the female it has occurred, froni merely the superincumbent weight of another person. Ordinarily, how- ever, the force applied is considerable. And unfortunately, the portion of tho viscus which is most apt to give way is where it is covered by