CHAPTER XLIV. AFFECTIONS OF THE EAR Congenital Occlusion of the Meatus. The meatus may be congenitally imperforate. It may be fully developed in aU respects, but covered by integument. In such a case, simple in- -cision of the skin, and careful dressing of the wound, so as to prevent contraction, will suffice to establish the normal state. Or a thick fleshy covering may conceal the cartilaginous tube, which is only partially developed. And in this case a more careful and regular dissection may obtain a similar result, but perhaps more imperfectly. Or the external apparatus of hearing may be altogether deficient; the bone itself being imperforate. Such cases are wholly beyond the reach of our art : yet it does not follow that hearing is denied, or even very imperfect. A boy, aged fourteen, came from a distance, desirous of having an aperture made in each auricle; and each of these organs was found very imperfectly developed, of a shrivelled appearance, and whoUy imperforate. On making a very careful dissection down to the bone, in search of an external meatus, it became apparent not only that no such tube existed, however imperfect, but that also there was no aperture in the temporal bone. Yet the patient heard ordinary conver- sation, if distinct and rather loud; he had gone to school at the same age as other boys, and had made equal proficiency in the ordinary branches of education, although no unusual means of teacliing had ever been applied to him; and he assisted his father in the occupation of a butcher, with much smartness and intelligence. A series of experiments, conducted by my colleagues. Professors Forbes and Thomson, seemed to Bhew that he heard mainly by conduction of sound through the bones of the cranium to internal ears very perfectly constructed.* In some cases the position of the tragus is so valve-like, lying so closely applied over the orifice of the cartilaginous canal, as to interfere very seriously with the hearing power ; in such circumstances small tubes like short canulae should be employed to maintain the patency of the opening. Supernumerary auricular appendages are sometimes found grooving from the sides of the neck; these may consist of mere cutaneous tissue, or contain cartilaginous nodules. They are merely unseemly, and may be removed by two semilunar incisions, which need not bo carried deeper than the skin. * Monthly Journal, Dec. 1846, pp. 420 and 729.