COllNEITIS. Fig. 249. G82 Sometimes the structure Is dense, firm, and fleshy; sometimes it contaiiis a large i)roportion of adipose suLstance. The terra Pminus is applied by some to the fleshy form of Ptery-', gium, by others only to those cases in which the cornea is completely covered with red vessels, presenting the appearance of a piece of red' cloth ; and, in either instance, the term is limited to a degree of chang( of structure which very materially interferes with vision. In the slighter cases of Pterygium, constituting a mere deformity, no treatment is required, and stimulating applications only make it deve lope more quickly; where, however, the cornea is encroached upon, divi sion of the thickened conjunctiva, and the vessels ramifying in it, shou! be effected midway between the semilunar fold and the margin of t] cornea. When the affection resists this, or when the web is thick and fleshy, excision of the portion extending towards the cornea, and involving surface, is to be had recourse to. The membrane is elevated by a hook, or pinched up in the teeth of a pair of artery forceps, and carefi removed by knife or scissors. The portion next the semilunar f should not be removed, lest, retraction of the caruncle occurring, unseemly appearance of protrusion sho be produced. When the whole co: is covered, a cure is said to have effected by the application of gonorrb matter to the conjunctiva; the inflai niatory process which thence resuli having the effect of breaking up tl morbid tissue, and rendering it amenah to removal by absorption. This, how ever, is a hazardous mode of treatmeni as the eye may be destroyed in con; quence of the violent inflammatory attack which is induced. Such p: cedure, therefore, should only be resorted to in those extreme cases ii which the cornea presents no sound part, but is completely and thickl; covered; and in which, consequently, the condition of the eye, so far a vision is concerned, cannot be made worse. Afections of the Cornea. Corneitis or Keratitis. The inflammatory process, affecting the cornea, may be cither ai original affection, depending upon some alteration in the nutrition of it intimate structure, or merely an extension from previously existing con junctivitis. We have already seen, that it constitutes the all-importan- condition in cases of scrofulous ophthalmia, and we shall have to allm to its occurrence as a consequence of several of the deeper seated affection of the eyeball. It may originate either from injury done directly to tb' part itself, or from an exciting cause applied to some other part of tin surface of the eye. It may be cither superficial or interstitial; nebulous suppurative, or ulcerative; or productive of slougliing. And when ther. Fig. 249. Pterygium, double.