OPERATIONS. 58G notches, and curves, seeming to be chiefly intended to compensate for want of tact and manual dexterity. Tlie apparatus, though siinplc, ought to bo in good order, and should ahvays be placed within easy and convenient reach of the operator, so tliat he may be in a great measure independent of the lookers-on; who, owing to anxiety or curiosity, hur) \ and agitation, are apt to hand any thing but what may at the instant Iji: required. He Avill consider well what place he himself may most convf;- niently occupy during the operation ; and, having obtained proper assist- ants, he will make sure that they all understand what is expected ol them. In short, before he ventures to begin, he will ascertain that every thing is ai-ranged, and in proper order; more particularly, that tlir; cutting instruments have good points, that their edges are keen, and thai the joints of forceps and scissors move freely and readily. "The skin, and in many instances the subjacent parts, should be; divided at once and completely, by a single incision made lightly and I rapidly—the parts being placed in a state of tension by tlie lingers of the surgeon or of an assistant—for the pain experienced is in proportion! to the pressure and tardiness of movement in the instrument applied.. Partial division of the skin, in tails left at each end of an incision, is' also to be avoided; for the pain of such a cut is unnecessarily severe; and, besides, such wounds are not so available, as they would otherwis be, for the intended purpose of evacuating fluid, for permitting the ex- traction of foreign bodies, or for the dissection of morbid growths. Alsoy the pausing of a surgeon in the midst of a dissection, and the resort to fresh and more extensive incisions of the surface, is not only always, awkward, but attended with additional and unnecessary pain to the patient. Every cutting instrument should be well balanced, and place in a steady, smooth handle ; the point should either be in a Hue wit the back, which ought then to be perfectly straight, or both edge an back should be equally convex, with the point corresponding to th middle of the blade. " The form and size of the instrument ought always to be in i jpor tion to the extent of the proposed incisions, as regards both their lengt and their depth : nothing can be imagined more cruel and reprehensibl for example, than an attempt to remove the lower extremity of a ful grown person with a common scalpel or dissecting knife. If an exte sive incision is necessary, an instrument should be employed possossin length of edge sufficient to separate the parts smoothly and quickl Should the operator, on the contrary, be required to cut on import- parts—to perform a delicate dissection of the living tissues—he vi choose a short-bladed instrument, with a handle rather long and we rounded; and, after the superficial incisions have been eff'ccted, he v hold it as he would a writing pen, Hghtly but firmly, so that he can tu the edge, and cut either towards or from himself, as occasion may requ' A small well-made scalpel, with a good point, and less convexity th those usually employed, is the instrument best adapted for such a puD pose. Grooved probes and directors should be used as little as possible With a little practice, incisions may be made upon the most delica parts witliout rislc, one layer being cut after the other. And if any in strument is wanted to make the proceeding more safe—if the closeh