996 OVARIAN DISEASE. veloped anteriorly, may, however, produce a resonance laterally and pos- teriorly. Fluctuation is generally more easily and distinctly detected in ascites. If the ovarian fluid is of great viscidity, or if the anterior cysts of the mass are numerous and small, fluctuation may be scarcely percep- tible ; while, on the other hand, if the disease be monolocular, fluctuation may be very apparent. Sometimes, in the multilocular variety, the larger cysts can be made out separately by the facility and distinctness of the fluctuation, when both hands are over the same cyst; and by its indis- tinctness or absence when one hand is on one cyst, and the other on a different one. In encysted dropsy, the general health is often, in the early stage of the disease, comparatively undisturbed, while in ascites the reverse is almost always found to be the case. Along with ascites, there is generally anasarca of the lower extremities, while in ovarian dropsy this is rarely observed. In the latter affection, however, we frequently find a varicose state of the vessels, and puffiness of the limbs. It is also to be- remembered that ascites and ovarian disease frequently co-exist; the ascitic fluid being of the ordinary kind ; or derived from an ovarian cyst by passing through foramina in its walls. When these diseases co- exist, fluctuation, if light and superficial, may deceive ; but if the fingers are pressed more deeply, a peculiar diagnostic mark is obtained by the • stroke of the fingers against the ovarian cyst—after displacing the over- • lying ascitic eff'usion. If there is still doubt, we may in some cases be » justified in drawing off a few drops of the fluid by a small trocar, and 1 ascertaining its nature by proper tests. Dulness on percussion over the hypogastric regions is more decided 1 in ovarian dropsy than in ascites. K, however, the pedicle be long, and I the tumour only moderately large and not distending the abdominal 1 walls, but rather floating in the cavity, there may be some resonance ? above the pubes. In some rare cases this mark is of importance, in die- - tinguishing the ovarian dropsy from pregnancy;—in both cases we may i flnd on auscidtation a murmur resembling the placental souffle ; and in ovarian disease, especially if recent, the equivocal signs of pregnancy may . be present. From pregnancy it is further distinguished by absence of the sound of the foetal heart, by the absence of baUottement,* by the drawing up of the uterus and vagina so that the cervix is with difficulty reached, by the hardness and length of the cervix, by the anteverted or retroverted state of the organ, by the commencement of the disease on one side, by more or less complete absence of the ordinary constitutional signs of the pregnant state, and by the duration and history of the complaint. Let the surgeon, however, never forget that Avith ovarian disease (at least of one side) there may co-exist an impregnated womb ; and that in one case, at aU events, the pregnant uterus has been tapped, under the supposition that it was an ovarian tumour, with the sanction of no less than three eminent accoucheurs. There is occasionally great difficulty in distinguishing a multilocular ovarian dropsy from fibrous or other tumour of the uterus. The tension of the cysts, their small size, and the viscidity of their contents, may be such as to destroy all signs of fluidity in the ovarian mass ; and the * A modified baUottement may be discovered in a case of ovarian tumour, if it is of moderate size and floating in ascitic fluid.