483 DISSECTION WOUNDS. painful ulcer. A minor amount of the inflammatory process involves the integuments around, which are red, hot, painful, and slightly swoln; and not unfrequently this, spreading, estahhshes an erythema or simple erysipelas. This is the most common form of accident;—in former times, when preservative fluids were not used in injecting the dead body, of almost daily occurrence in those attending the dissecting room. Sometimes a violent form of deep whitlow is induced; requiring incision to prevent disorganization of texture. Sometimes secondary abscess collects in the axilla ; of a chronic kind, without apparent affec- tion of the intervening lymphatics. Sometimes no acute afl'ection occurs at the site of injury ; but chronic induration forms there, and is of long continuance. 2. Severe.—The inflammatory process is diffuse from the first, and pustular formation at the injured part may or may not occur. A genuine phlegmonous erysipelas or paronychia is established. And not un- frequently angeioleucitis plainly co-exists ; evinced by red streaks, very painful, stretching continuously up the arm from the erysipelatous part; or by acute enlargement of the supra-trochlear gland or of the lymphatics in the axilla, connected with isolated patches of inflaming lymphatics on the inside of the limb. Abscess usually forms in affected glands, very speedily ; perhaps accompanied with diffuse suppuration of the siurounding areolar tissue. The latter casualty often occurs, also, in the areolar tissue on the corresponding side of the chest. Sometimes the first symptom which attracts the patient's attention is an intense pain in the shoulder; soon followed by glandular enlargement in the axUla, while yet the changes at the injured part are comparatively unimportant. When such is the case, diffuse infiltration of the corresponding side is seldom absent, and usually extensive. And such local disasters, it can readily be understood, are invariably accompanied with intense consti- tutional disturbance. II. General.— 1. Derangement of the general health, without local injury, is not unfrequent; poison entering the system by the skin, or by the lungs. This deleterious matter would seem also to be of two kinds ; generated in the body before death, as in fever, and encountered in sub- jects recently dead ; or the gaseous product of ordinary putrescence, ' initted by any body much decomposed. From either form the student Idem suffers, unless he be either very much exposed to the contagion by long and habitual stay in the dissecting room, or predisposed in con- .^equence of previous disorder of the system. He feels feverish, languid, listless, and without appetite ; the bowels become irregular, and diarrhoea ts in, accompanied with much flatulence; the gaseous product of the _omach and intestines is very foetid, the fcetor closely resembling that of i lie dead body whence the deleterious influence has proceeded ; and the 'me odour is also usually perceived in the mouth, in the breath, in the xhalations from the skin, and in the urine. The system seems saturated v^ith the poison, and busy in freeing itself by elimination. After diar- I cea has continued for some time, perhaps accompanied with profuse ]'f=rspiration at night, the symptoms usually abate; the greater part of aeleterious matter has been extruded, and the system rallies ; unless