CHAPTER XXXVIIL AFFECTIONS OF THE PALATE. Conffenital Deficiency. Extensive deficiency of tlie hard palate is with difficulty remediable. Mitigation of the deformity and inconvenience may be effected by the dentist; a metalhc plate being fitted into the chasm, on completion of the pai-t's development. Also, sometliing may be done by surgery. If, for example, a harelip co-exists, this should be remedied by early operation; or, later in life, the operation recommended by Dr. J. M. "Warren may be performed. The soft parts having been carefully dissected off the bony arch, by means of a scalpel or bistoury, curved at a convenient angle and set in a long handle, are brought together by suture, after the edges of the gap have been made raw. What filled the arch will probably meet readily on a plane surface; but should difficulty be experienced, further relaxation may be obtained by dividing the anterior pillars of the soft velum.* It has also been suggested that a fii-m strong silver wire should be carried round the jaw above the alveolar arch, beneath the mucous membrane on both sides, so that both ends of the continuous wire should hang out beneath the upper lip. These are to be twisted together day by day, in the hope of so effecting a closer approximation of the two halves of the jaw. In the soft cartilaginous state of the bones, the wire, we should fear, wUl rather cut its way through the bone than effect closure of the gap ; and in the ossified condition, the procedure must of course be useless. A mere fissiu-e of the hard palate may disappear spontaneously, dur- ing the progressive development in adolescence. And if the mucous membrane should be slow in closing over, this process may be expedited by occasionally applying a heated wire, or by raising and approximating the raw edges. The soft palate may be fissured, alone. Then, if the want of snh- stauce be not great, we have it in our power to attempt remedy by opera- tion. Three circumstances, however, are essential, as preliminaries to the attempt. There must be no great deficiency, otherwise traction in ap- roximation will be considerable, and adhesion wiU almost certainly fail. e patient must be of adult age, or nearly so ; great steadiness and self- •ontrol being indispensable on his part, both during the operation and iterwards. The patient should also be of sound system, and in good h ; so as to afford every possible facility to the occurrence of adhc- in the Avound. And unless a concurrence of these circumstances •e obtained, the prudent surgeon will refi\ain from interference. * New England Quarterly Journal of Mcilicine and Siu'gcry, April 1813.