AMPUTATION OF THE ARM. 1360 nisliing conical form of the forearm. The ulnar and median nerve should always be cut short, so as to avoid pain during the suppuration of the stump, and the formation of neuromata afterwards. In clearing the bones, the knife shoidd not be directed obliquely upwards, as the inter- osseous artery may thus be divided higher than the general surface of the stump, and give considerable trouble in applying the ligature. In transfixion, it is obvious that care must be taken to avoid passing the knife between the bones. On this account, the position of the limb here recommended is preferable to the middle state between pronation and supination ; and during the incisions, care must be taken that the position is maintained unaltered. Amputation at the Elbow-Joint. If space enough be left on the forearm, in extensive disease or injury of that part, the humerus need not be interfered with. An excellent operation may be done at the elbow; making a single flap in front. The limb is steadied, with the hand in a-state of supination. Transfixion is made, by passing the knife over the condyles, in front of the joint; and, by cutting downwards and outwards, a large and suitable flap is constructed. With a circular sweep, the integuments behind are divided; and dis- articulation is then effected by a few touches of the point of the knife. In opening the articulation from the front, the lower level of the inner or trochlear side of the humerus should be borne in mind, rendering the line of articulation oblique and not transverse. Some recommend that the olecranon should be sawn across; but this seems quite unne- cessary ; for, by extending the forearm, the process may be easily dissected out of the soft parts, the attachment of the triceps having been severed. The flap is then suitably adjusted over the trochlea of the humerus. Amputation of the Arm. This situation is admirably adapted for the flap amputation by trans- fixion, owing to the equable manner in which the bone is surrounded by soft parts. The method by circular incision, by short areolo-cutaneous flaps, or by the long external rounded or rectangular flaps, may all be easily performed, and will afford excellent results. Cases of injury afford usually the best opportunity for making a selection of procedm-e; for in chronic disease the faciHty of the operation by transfixion wUl give it the preference over any other method. Pressure is made on the upper part of the humeral—or, to afford the surgeon and his assistant as much space as possible, on the lower third of the axillary artery. This latter situation affords the further advan- tage, that the vessel is more easily controlled, being less liable to roll away from under the fingers. The surgeon with his left hand steadies the Hmb, below the point of incision; while an assistant, seated in front of the patient, supports the hand and forearm. The knife is entered horizontally over the bone near its centre, on the side of the limb nearest the surgeon; the point having almost touched the bone, is passed lightly round to its external surface, by depression of' the handle ; then the I