468 TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. seldom, if ever, could or did take place. On the contrary, a suppuratinr/ surface was formed, with profuse discharge; and a very tedious cui'e if any, was obtained."* Treatment for immediate union and healing hy adhesion.—Hemor- rhage having been stanched — and the wound cleansed, gently and carefully, from foreign matter, if need be—coaptation is to be thought of. And a question immediately arises, as to when and how that is to be accomplished. Formerly, as has been already stated, it was tlie practice to make the coaptation both immediate and complete ; but, now, temporary delay and incompleteness are often deemed expedient. If the external wound be put together while oozing of blood continues, even though slightly, and more particularly if it be covered up by lint and bandaging, adhesion cannot but be thwarted. For, supposing that the ■ bandaging fails instantly to arrest the oozing—as is most likely—the blood, unable to escape, accumulates in a coagulum, which occupies the cavity of the wound; separating the cut surfaces to a greater or less extent; and enacting the part of a foreign substance, as effectually as would lint, or charpie. Besides, the coagulum resembles a hot sponge, in contact with the cut vessels; and as the collateral circulation becomes; more and more fully developed, in consequence of deligation of the prin- cipal arterial trunks, hemorrhage is most plainly favoured, from vessels: which otherwise would have been permanently closed by natural hemo- statics. Complete undoing of the coaptating means, exposure of the* wound throughout its whole extent, removal of the interposed coagulum., i arrest of the hemorrhage, and subsequent reapplication of the dressing,: become necessary; proceedings not only very painful to the patient and( irksome to the practitioner, but also most opposed to the occurrence of) adhesion; for a part, so stimulated by fresh manipulation and injury,,- can scarcely escape inflammatory accession. And even should bleeding/^ not occur to such extent as to demand re-opening of the wound for itsu arrest, still the mere lodgment of a coagulum forces on the inflammatoi process, and suppuration becomes established. Seeking adhesion, it our object to have no accumulation of clotted blood between the cut sur-d faces; to have no necessity arising, by hemorrhage, for re-opening the wound ; and to avoid all exciting causes of the higher inflammatOT grades. These indications are fulfilled by delaying all attempts closure, for some little time, in wounds of moderate extent; and those of large dimensions, as after amputation, making the immediat approximation only incomplete. The oozing thus escapes externally:^ without accumulating within ; means are in operation to arrest it namely, the application of styptic influence by atmospheric exposure, by cold irrigation ; and should a vessel prove troublesome, it can still secured, with comparatively little trouble or pain. Tn a large wounfl one or two stitches are applied ; to prevent exposure of the whole ral surface, and to facilitate subsequent approximation. The minor woim(f are untouched by needle, strap, or bandage. They are loosely cover with a thin portion of lint, wet in cold water; and, by its means, appl cation of cold is made continuously, either by alternations of such piece of wetted lint, or by irrigation—as thus : Suspending a bottle of col| * liistoii's Practical Surgery, p. 31.