PHLEGMONOUS ERYSIPELAS. 249 In uo case should fomentation and poultice be long continued; seldom, if ever, beyond two or three days ; otherwise the parts become sodden and relaxed, and made prone to unhealthy suppuration. After the inflammatory process has fairly begun to pass away, gentle and uniform support by bandaging is expedient j preventing congestion, removing the tendency to oedema, and hastening restoration to the normal sthenic condition. Cellulo-Cutaneous, or Phlegmonous Enjsipelas. This is an infinitely more serious affection. The inflammatory process is intense, and rapid in its progress ; and a plurality of tissues are involved, from the first. The skin and subcutaneous areolar tissue are both acutely inflamed; serous and fibrinous inflammatory product collect in quantity, and tension ensues ; swelling is great and rapid; a Hmb, not unfrequently, is enlarged to almost twice its normal girth; the skin is red, hot, tight, and shining—shewing no rugae, but smooth and glistening ; pressure is very painful, and the part feels as if converted into brawn. Vesication often takes place, in a broad extended form ; as in the first effect of a blister. It is rather a favourable sign than otherwise ; for sometimes it betokens a subsidence of disease. But, usually, as the part grows tense, the morbid process is further increased; and, unless speedy relief arrive, sup- pm^ation occurs. This is asthenic. The pus is thin and ichorous; the inflammatory process is not accompanied by plastic results, but pus forms rapidly and extensively in all directions. The areolar tissue is broken up and sloughs ; skin is undermined, and sloughs too. The system sympa- thises greatly. At first, inflammatory fever exists ; often intense. But, on the occurrence of destructive and diffuse suppuration, a change is made to the form of constitutional irritation; of a still more alarming character ; probably first shewing the type of irritative fever; then that of hectic; ultimately that of prostration and collapse. But the disorder and its effects are by no means limited to the tex- tures primarily involved. Suppose the case to be both intense and neglected. The inflammatory process spreads, by contiguity as well as continuity ; and that rapidly. Fascia is involved, and subfascial areolar tissue. The tension wliich results from this is greater and more serious than from merely subcutaneous change; and the disease is proportion- ally aggravated. Intermuscular tissue is implicated, and muscles are detached by its disruption ; periosteum inflames, and suppuration—stiU diffuse—takes place beneath it ; bone inflames and dies; joints are opened into, inflame, and suppurate. Diffuse suppuration, and sloughing, having at length more or less involved almost every texture of the Hmb the suffering frame may demand amputation to save life ; or death may ensue, ere ever an opportunity for operation occur. Such fatal issues are less frequent than they were wont to be, more especially since the free use of iron in the system has been combined with early applica- tion of steel to the part; but stiff joints, necrosed or carious bones, withered hmbs, and wasted frames, are still no uncommon results of iU- treated plilcgmonous erysipelas. The constitutional symptoms which may attend on this grave malady