CASTllATION. 1240 is also advisable that the patient's trousers should be made tightly fitting to the fork. By dressing to the same side, he thus secures both support for the testis, and sufficient compression of the spermatic veins ; and can dispense with the use of a truss altogether, after a time. One great ad- vantage of such treatment is its simphcity, and freedom from risk by phlebitis. A variety of varicocele occasionally occurs, affecting the veins within the inguinal canal, and at the groin; while those of the scrotum are comparatively free. It is very liable to be mistaken for hernia, as for- merly noticed. The best test is the peculiar sensation imparted to the finger and thumb when the part is pinched and rubbed. Palliative treat- ment usually suffices. But should a radical cure be sought, the preferable means is the application of pressure by a truss. Tumours of the Cord. Occasionally, adipose tumours form in the areolar tissue of the sper- matic cord. Their bulk is inconvenient, and their pressure may caiise atrophy of the testicle. They are to be removed by incision. Fibrous tumours and osseous formations have also been found here ; but are rare. The testicle, arrested at the groin, in its descent, may become affected by tumour; and in that situation may require removal by operation.* Castration. This mutilation is seldom required, except for tumours of the tes- ticle ; malignant, or such as, though simple, are not amenable to either discussion or disintegration. In neuralgia of the testis, and in cirsocele, it is sometimes demanded by the patient; but in neither case is the sur- geon warranted in acceding to the wish.t All hair having been removed from the scrotum and groin, the patient is placed recumbent. By grasping the tumour behind, the skin is made tense. The bistoury is entered at the neck of the swelling, and carried to its fundus ; diverging over the body of the tumour, so as to include a sufficiency of skin within an elliptical incision. This form of wound is especially necessary, when a fungus, ulcer, or other involve- ment of the skin, requires to be taken away, A simple rectilinear wound would suffice for removal of the tumour ; but a redundancy of skin would be left, constituting a pouch for accumulation of blood or pus. On the other hand, it is very necessary to avoid excessive removal of the integument, lest, on contraction, a bare sufficiency be found for effectually covering the remaining organ. And, in connection with this, it is important to remember that the covering of a large sarcocele is borrowed from the adjoining parts; and that, consequently, after inci- sion, a great degree of resilience in the integument is certain to occur. The dissection is advanced, first at the upper part of the wound, so as to expose the cord; this having been isolated, the cremasteric covering is * Lancet, No. 1214, p. 617. t Castration may seem expedient in Hemaphrodism.—Monthly Jour., Dec, 1852, p. 573.