TUMOUES OF THE EYEBALL. 72G the tumour increases more quickly than before; a vascular fungous ma protrudes, and growing rapidly may attain a very large size, before deal) from hemorrhage, exhaustion, or intracranial extension, carries I! patient off. In cases of medullary disease, a cure can be acconiplislK in but one way—by extirpation of the eyeball; and that only in tli. early period, when the disease is confined to the interior of the glol And it must be recollected, that even after removal of tlie globe t- which the tumour was apparently limited, the disease frequently retun in the optic nerve ; eventually destroying life. In the advanced stage, a operative interference is contra-indicated; reproduction then Is cei'tain and the progress of the disease, instead of being arrested or retarded likely to become accelerated. Indeed, the cases are very few in whii j the operation has proved thoroughly successful. Once I had occasidii on account of false aneurism at the bend of the arm, to tie the humei artery of a gentleman aged thirty-three, who, at the age of nine, ha undergone extirpation of the eyeball on account of what was suppog( to be a medullary tumour;* and in him there has never been tl: slightest symptom of return ; but in all such cases, allowance must I made for the errors which, in the early stage of the disease, are so liaLI to be made in diagnosis—mistaking scrofulous products for medullar disease, and omitting microscopic examination of the organ after i' removal, by which the true character of the diseased structures migL be determined. The melanotic tumour generally occurs after the middle period of lifei it slowly fills up the interior of the eye j is seen by the naked eye bulg through the pupil, when dilated, either like the former tumour, wi metallic lustre derived from the white retina, or dim and black, li distinctly visible to the ophthalmoscope, with its pigmentary charact more or less strongly marked; according as the melanotic matter superficial and subretinoid, or diffused through the substance of the When the globe becomes enlarged and its coats thinned, it is recogni by the dark-coloured external projections of the sclerotic; and is nod attended with pain, tension, and opacity of the lens and cornea Ij some cases, care is required not to mistake the disease for simple staphu loma of the sclerotic. The only cure is extirpation of the eyeball j aij this should be effected at as early a period as possible. In considering the propriety, in any case of abnormal forniatic^ within the globe which presents itself for examination, of resorting extirpation, it is not so much the determination of the essential natu of the tumour which should decide our practice (for in the early of the disease that is often impossible), as whether the disease is st j within reach of complete removal; that is to say, is it stiU confinH within the sclerotic 1 If the globe is protruded, but not commensurate j enlarged ; if any of its motor muscles are paralysed; still more if t. globe is fixed, or its movements impeded in any particular directioii and most specially, if the fijiger cannot press deeply round it on accou of some mass which occupies the orbit—it is obvious that the disease, beyond our reach, and no operation should be attempted. Even in cas where, with the absence of every such untowai'd symptom, removal > | * Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. xix. p. 5]i