TKKfmiENT OF ACUTE SYNOVITIS. 341 the limb, and move the articulation, too much and too soon. And, surely, the safer side on which to err, is to run some hazard of trouble even by threatened anchylosis, rather than to incur that of reinduccd disease, and probable disorganization of the part thereby. It seems wiser to huniom- the natural position of the limb, during tlie acute stage ; and, when this has passed, to restore what is normal gradually and with caution. In elfect- iug this, relaxation of the muscles will be obtained, and much pain and nervous irritation saved by putting the patient fully under the influence of chloroform. When the inflammatory attack has fairly passed away, resumption of motion is imperative. For, even independently of other considerations, it is to be borne in mind that long continued immobility of a joint is, of itself, sufiicient to cause serious structural change; effusion of blood or serum into its cavity, fibrinous change of the synovial membrane, dis- ease of the cartilages, and anchylosis. Up to the time when motion is begun to be systematically restored, all movement in the joint is to be most studiously avoided. During the acute stage, the part is intolerant of bandages and splints ; then we have to trust to pillows, and gentle binding of the limb upon them. But so soon as the acute stage has passed away, so as to permit the application of splints, these are forthwith had recourse to ; being by far the most efficient means of fulfilling the all-important indication. A very suitable kind are those of thick leather, softened by immersion in hot water ; applied when pHable—usually one on either aspect of the hmb; retained, by bandaging, for a few hours, till they harden into a case closely adapted to the surface of the part; then removed, and lined by some soft sub- stance, such as tow, wadding, or chamois leather; reapplied with mode- rate tightness, and constantly retained. When, unfortunately, our efforts to arrest the disease have failed, and suppuration has occurred—the interior of the joint being, in truth, converted into an acute abscess—the general rules of surgery are not to be departed from ; an early and free incision should be practised. This, however, can only be had recourse to, when the symptoms are so very distinct as to leave not the slightest doubt of suppuration having occurred. To plunge a bistoury into the cavity of a joint, filled with serous or sero-purulent fluid, would be a most unwarrantable procedure ; rendering disorganization certain, where otherwise all might have been saved; such fluids, and the change of structure which attends on them, being perfectly amenable to absorption—on arrest of the active process which caused them. When there is any doubt, therefore, as to the nature of the contents, we withhold the knife, for a time. If they are purulent, the natural process of pointing will soon disclose the real state of matters ; and then incision is unhesitatingly performed. After incision, fi-esh inflammatory accession is inevitable; and has to be guarded against accordingly. The maintenance of rest, with other local management, is if possible more assiduous than before; and tem- porary resumption of general antiphlogistics will probably be expedient. Afterwards, our expectation is that the cavity will gradually contract and c ose; as do other acute abscesses. But, on account of the peculiar