334 OSTEOSCIRRIIUS. This form ol cancer is usually met with as a secondary disease; the primary affection having been either a scirrhus in the soft parts—as in the mamma, or perhaps a medullary, osteoid, or colloid disease of the same bone, in another part of its shaft or extremities. The scirrhus of bone rarely produces any gi-eat tumour ; its limit is usually the periosteum, so that in some instances where nearly the whole extent of the bone was involved, it retained, with but little change, the original form and shape. The formation of such secondary growth may be excited by the occurrence of fracture. More commonly the order of events is reversed; the tumour" gradually expanding, and thus attenuating the bone walls by its growth from within ; and the bone, thus changed, snapping across during some slight exertion. Under such circumstances, all hope of cure is vain—even by amputation. Osteocancer, a malignant ulceration of bone, is not uncommon. Usually of secondary origin also ; the invasion having come from the soft parts. A malignant ulcer of the scalp, for example, not unfre- quently involves the subjacent skull in a hopeless loss of substance ; and epithelioma, beginning in the skin, may soon excavate the tibia, or the upper or lower jaw, as the case may be. Such an occurrence, in either of the extremities, would warrant amputation ; unless lymphatic tumour, or other indication of an irrevocably involved system, should contra-indi- cate all active interference. Osteoid Cancer. As already mentioned, the medullary tumour originating from the periosteum and surface of a bone, and possessing an osseous framework- or skeleton in the form of radiating plates and spicula, is regarded by some as an example of this form of disease. In its true form the tumour is characterised by its elongated oval shape, its smoothness of surface, its incompressible hardness, and the pain which accompanies it; resembling in these respects a simple ostitic enlargement. On dissection, it is found contained within the thickened and adherent periosteum, of a smooth or broadly tuberous surface. On section, it is found to consist of a very compact, hard, lamellated, or finely porous osseous tissue, of which the Avhole mass, except the exterior part, consists. This latter portion is composed of dense tough fibrous substance. Examined with the micro- scope, these tumours consist of short stunted reticularly-arranged fibres, closely matted together, with cancer cells sparsely scattered among their interstices, but with an abundance of connective tissue cells ; and these may be observed becoming transformed by the calcareous transformation of surrounding parts into lacunas. The hard portion of the tumour in fact consists of bone, more or less perfectly formed, with a cancerous development of its medullary substance. These tumours grow rapidly, exhausting the patient by pain and the early development of the can- cerous cachexia, as well as by the involvement of the lymphatics in malignant disease. Early amputation is the only means of relief, but with an unfavourable prognosis.