AMPUTATION AT THE ANKLE. 1370 Fig. 384. Amputation at the ankle. which ho, at tho same time, gently l)ut steadily presses back until ho exposes and divides the tendo Achillis. The foot should be disarticu- lated before the malleolar projec- tions are removed, which it is always proper to do, and which may bo most easily effected by passing a knife round the exposed extremities of the bones, and then sawing off a thin slice of the tibia connecting tho two processes."* Some have recommended that the operation should be conducted by completely opening the joint from F's- 3S4. the front, before dissecting off the soft parts from the calcaneum ; and some have even so far departed, with- out reason, from the method of the originator, as to dissect the os calcis out of the heel flap, instead of the heel flap from the os calcis. Such variations in the procedure have created confusion in the minds of sub- sequent imitators, and produced disastrous results, by sloughing of the flap—such as are not met with here, when the operation has been properly performed. Eleeding having been arrested, the flaps are brought together by suture ; and care must be taken, during the cure, to prevent accumu- lation of pus in the pouch which may be formed by the posterior flap. After cicatrization, a most efficient, round, callous stump is produced ; the patient resting on the integuments of the heel—well accustomed to pressure—and retaining a full use of the knee and leg. Division of the posterior tibial artery, behind the internal malleolus, in clearing the ends of the tibia and fibula, as a preliminary to the removal of the malleoli, should be carefully avoided ; as by such wound the calcaneal branches will be deprived of their supply of blood, and partial or complete sloughing of the flap will be almost sure to follow. It is probable, however, in many cases in which sloughing has occurred, that the accident was not wholly attributable to deficiency of arterial supply, but to the operator using undue force in dissecting back the heel flap, as well as scoring the flap, instead of keeping close to the sur- face of the bone in using the knife. Should circumstances not be suitable to the plan of incision as above described—as, for example, when the soft parts over the external aspect of the os calcis have sloughed, or are involved in malignant disease—then the followmg procedure, originally recommended by the late Dr. J. R. Mackenzie, may be advantageously adopted :— " 071 the Right Foot.—The body reclining on the right side, and the foot and ankle projecting beyond the table with their internal aspect upwards, the point of the knife is entered in the mesial line of the posterior aspect of the anlde, on a level with the articulation, carried downwards obliquely across the tendo Achillis towards the external border * Syme, Contributions to Surgery, p. 146 ; and Monthly Joimml, Feb. 1850, p. 173.