TETANUS. 510 followed simple fracture, and a blow or bruise—even apparently sliglit. It has also followed a mere fall, without any apparent bruise; and it has been induced by the unsurgical operation of tooth-pivoting. Wounds, however, are the ordinary exciting cause ; especially those of a punctured and lacerated kind, inflicted in dense textures well supplied with nerves —as the fingers and hand. There is good reason to believe, in some instances, at all events, that injury done to some individual nervous branch is prominently connected with accession of the symptoms ; that it has been punctured or torn, or partially divided, or included in a ligature applied to a bleeding artery ; or that it is continually excited and injured, by some rough or sharp foreign matter lodged in the wound. The predisposing causes of tetanus are not easily ascertained. But it seems quite certain that intestinal and uterine irritation, especially the former, act in this way; as also exposure to atmospheric vicissitude and malarious influences. And these, again, which rank as predisposing causes, when a wound is the exciting cause, may, when there is no breach of surface, become themselves exciting causes of the idiopathic form of the disease. The period of accession varies. In some cases the symptoms appear within a few hours after infliction of the injiuy; in others a few days elapse, and the accession is while symptoms of acute inflammatory pro- gress are present in the wound. More frequently, cicatrization is nearly complete ; and in such cases it has been supposed that the exciting cause is a neuromatous formation in the injured nerve, which has become en- tangled in the dense cicatrix, and is thereby irritated. Certainly, such a morbid condition has been met with in tetanic cases ; more especially when following burns. When three weeks have elapsed, Avithout any threatening of accession, the patient may usually be considered safe. Whereas, in hydrophobia, it will be remembered, invasion is seldom till even a more distant period. In Tetanus there is a peculiarly " excitable state of the Spinal Cord and Medulla Oblongata, not involving the ganglia of special sense. This may be the result of causes altogether internal, as in the idiopathic form . of the disease ; in which the condition exactly resembles that which may ■ be artificially induced by the administration of Strychnine, or by its ap- plication to the cord. Or it may be first occasioned by some local irrita- • tion, as that of a lacerated wound; the irritation of the injured nerve i being propagated to the nervous centres, and establishing the excitable i state in them. When the complaint has once established itself, the re- ■ moval of the original cause of irritation (as by the amputation of the injured limb) is seldom of any avail; since the slightest impressions upon almost any part of the body are sufficient to excite the tetanic spasm."* The nerves concerned in mastication and deglutition are generally first involved; and the obedient action of the muscles produces distor- tion of the mouth, with a feeling of sore throat, and some degree of pain and stiffness in the neck and jaws—usually the first symptom. If the orbicularis oris predominate in action, the mouth assumes a puckered appearance; more frequently the antagonist muscles are in the ascendant, * Carpenter's Physiology, p. 517.