443 KADICAL CURE OF VAlllX. ImvinfT been protected by a picco of pLaster, with an aperture in its gpj^tro—tlie aperture corresponding to the exposed part of the vein—a portion of paste is applied in contact with the venous tissue, and there retained; either permanently, or only for a time, according to the size of the portion applied, and the extent to which we wish to make the eschar. The object is to produce a complete slough of the venous coats; to ho followed by a surrounding areola of sthenic inflammatory process, friviug plastic change; whereby the venous canal may be obstructed permanently, for some distance above and below the cauterized point. And then the suppuration and ulceration, necessary for detachment of the slough, are not likely to extend beyond the mere vicinity of the dead part. This cauterization may be employed in two ways. It may be applied to a sound part of the great venous trunk, above the varicose branches; to the saphena in the thigh, for example, in the case of varix of the leg; pressure being at the same time used to the dilated veins. The effect of obstruction above is expected to be, that the blood will seek another channel—collateral, or in a deeper plane ; and that consequently the affected veins, much disburthened, and now comparatively idle conduits, may have an opportunity either of recovering their calibre and tone, or of being obliterated by consolidation. Or the caustic may be applied to the dilated veins themselves, at various points, so as to ensure ohliteration. For some days before the caustic's use, the patient should maintain recumbency, and otherwise undergo the same preparatory treatment as for operation on account of aneurism. During the whole progress of cure, recumbency, antiphlogistic regimen, with absence of all excitement, must be observed ; and, at the time of the slough's separation, precaution should be doubly vigilant. At this period, were the patient to get out of bed and walk about, or indulge imprudently in diet, hemorrhage— great, and perhaps fatal—might possibly ensue. And further, that being the period of ulceration of the venous coats, for detachment of the slough, such imprudence might very probably lead to extension of the phlebitis. It is also to be remembered that, independently of all immediate risk, the caustic sores may prove indolent and slow to heal; perhaps becoming a source of even greater inconvenience than the original malady, on account of which they have been incurred. The twisted suture is applied directly to the affected vein, in the fol- lowing manner; and is generally preferred, as the simpler and safer mode of treatment. A needle, such as used for harelip, is passed beneath the vem—taking great care that the coats are not in the least degree injured ; and round it a silk or thread ligature is twisted, so as to completely obstruct the venous canal at that point, and compress the coats with some power against the needle. This application is permitted to remain undisturbed for some days. Should much pain, swelling, and redness occur, then the needle is withdrawn; the inflammatory process is suffi- cient for occlusion ; and it would be imprudent to seek a higher grade y continuance of the exciting cause. If, however, no uneasiness bo toinpiaincd of, beyond what is ordinaiy and desirable, tlie needle may be