AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER. 13G2 ing is in the option of tho sin-geon. The steps of the procedure vary according to tho limb operated on. In the ligld shoulder, it is effected thus ;—The arm having been abducted from the side and carried a little forwards, a long knife is entered in the triangular space between the coracoid, acromion, and the clavicle ; and, passing round the head of the humerus beneath the acromion, is brought out immediately within the posterior border of the axilla. By cutting outwards and downwards, a large outer flap is formed. The arm is then carried across the chest; and the head of the bone, thus made prominent, if not already liberated from the capsule by the passage of the knife in transfixion (Lisfranc), is exposed by a sweep of the instrument which opens the capsule through- out the whole extent of the wound (Dupuytren). Disarticulation is then effected; and the blade of the knife, laid on the inside of the head of the bone, is carried rapidly inwards and downwards, so as to form an internal flap, considerably smaller than the other. The main artery, seized in the flap by the fingers of an assistant following the movements of the operator. Fig, 382. is immediately secured by ligature; and then pressure on the subclavian, should it have been employed, is removed, lest, by its continuance, venous hemorrhage should be favoured. In making this transfixion thrust, the knife requires careful management; to avoid, on the one hand, catching its point upon the head of the humerus, or on the under surface of the acromion, and, on the other, cross-cutting of the skin at the point of entrance. The latter risk is best avoided by turning the edge of the knife towards the humerus, at the same time that the point is depressed for the purpose of bringing it out within the axillary margin. On the left side, the arm having been abducted and brought a little forwards, the knife is entered within the margin of the posterior border of the axilla, and made to emerge above and in front of the head of the humerus, in the same triangular space, between the coracoid, ckvicle, and acromion, as the transfixion thrust commenced upon the right side. The outer flap is formed as before. The arm is then carried over the chest, disarticulation effected, and another flap formed. In effecting Fig. 382, Amputation at the shoulder, left side, by Lisfrauc's method.