FRACTURE OF THE PATELLA. 1313 entailing, as it usually does, a stiff joint for a lengthened period, if not for life. The signs of the injury are obvious and plain. Treatment may bo satisfactorily effected cither by means of the long splint, or by the double-inclined plane, with the knee considerably bent. VIII. Diastasis, or separation of the shaft of the bone from its epi- physis, may take place in the adolescent; simply, by direct violence; or with more or less rotation of the detached part, the limb having been twisted by a wheel, or in machinery. Eetontion is best effected in the straight position; with the use of common splints, of wood or paste- board ; or laying the limb in Maclntyre's splint, fully extended. IX Fracture of the Condyles may take place as an accompaniment of fracture above the condyles ; or it may be an oblique fracture splitting off one or other of the condyles themselves, and extending into the knee-joint. There is much swelling of the joint, and crepitus is felt on the slightest motion. There is always some lateral displacement of adduction or abduction, according as it is the internal or external condyle which has suffered. When both are split up, the whole articulation is rendered preternaturally movable, and the width between the condyles is increased. These fractures are best treated in the straight position. But watclifiilness and activity are especially requisite, to avert inflammatory accession, which is apt to seize upon the synovial capsule, and to prove severe. After the first fortnight, to prevent stiffness, gentle passive motion of the joint is expedient j provided the parts are quiet enough to admit of tliis. In all fractures of the thigh the limb's use must be resumed very gradually, crutches being employed to bear weight at first, lest bending and shortening occur after apparent consolidation. And tliis precaution, indeed, is necessary in all fractures of the lower extremity—especially in patients enfeebled by age or disease, as already stated. X. Fracture of the Thigh complicated luith Wound, and Compound Fractures of the thigh, especially at the upper part, are prone to an un- favourable issue ; by suppuration and constitutional disturbance. No peculiarities of treatment need be specified. The long splint, with a hiatus, occupied by a firm iron arch corresponding to the site of the wound, usually fulfils every indication requisite for the satisfactory treat- ment of the case. Fractm-es of the thigh caused by gunshot wound usually demand immediate amputation. And the patient's fate, in cases where an attempt is made to save the limb, usually hinges on the prophy- lactic and antiphlogistic constitutional treatment of the first ten days. The progress of the case must be expected to be tedious ; and in many instances, although an effort may be made to save the limb, secondary amputation will too probably be required on account of the extensive necrosis which follows. Fracture of the Patella. Longitudinal or vertical fracture of this bone is a rare accident; when it occurs, it is usually the result of direct violence, and may be attended with comminution. Inflammatory accession is liable to ensue, impli- cating the joint; and active prophylaxis, in this respect, is in conse- quence essential. The fibres of the vastus externus, and of the vastus 4 p