RETENTION OF URINE. 1115 lengtli reached, a calculus begins to be constructed there. Such cases have been recorded by Liston, Holot, and others. Contrary to expecta- tion, the erectile capabilities of the organ do not seem to have been impaired by the gradual transverse section.* If called to such a case, after some days, with the constricting agent sunk in inllamed parts, a free incision is to be made upon the offending body; which, having been exposed, is to be divided—by knife or pliers, according to its nature—and removed. If called early, a tight ring may be taken off, as from the finger, thus : pass the end of a stout and long thread beneath it, leaving the pubal end loose and prehensible ; roll the rest of the thread tightly and closely round the penis in front of the constricted part, so as to invest it whoUy ; then gradually unrol, from the pubal end; and the ring is shuffled forwards, as the thread is made to imcoil. Retention of Urine. This serious calamity may arise from a variety of causes ; and treat- ment varies accordingly. The symptoms are : inability to evacuate any urine, while desire to do so is great, constant, and frequently aggravated —with straining, pain, and much distress. The bladder, rising in the pelvis, is felt above the pubes, and also by the finger introduced into the rectum; pressure above the pubes causes great pain, and percussion is dull there ; in extreme cases, the bladder may become an abdominal tumour almost as large and distinct as the gravid uterus—oval, tense, and fluctuating. If the bladder have been previously contracted in cavity and thickened in its coats, the ordinary symptoms of retention may be occasioned by the incarceration of but a small quantity of fluid; and then the tumour can be felt only by the rectum or vagina. In other cases, the bladder distends readily; and the tumour may be both large and high in the abdomen, before unpleasant feelings are com- plained of. As the case proceeds, pain and straining, with sickness, become more and more unbearable ; the pulse rises, the skin grows hot, the tongue is dry; breath and perspiration may evince an urinous odour;—"urinous fever" is established; absorption of the vesical contents has begun. By and by the ureters become distended, as weU as the bladder; increasing pressure is thus made upon the kidneys; their secretion is arrested in consequence; and suppression of urine, supervening on and caused by the retention, tends to produce coma and death. If the bladder be relieved, the urgent symptoms disappear speedily; the patient passes from torment into Elysium; and under no circum- stances will he be found more eloquently and sincerely grateful. He must be seen again soon, however, otherwise the unpleasant symptoms may speedily return. The kidneys, compressed by the enlarged and fuU ureters, had for some time been secreting little; on removal of that pressure, the secretion is renewed copiously, and the bladder may be soon refilled. * Lately, in operating on a little boy, on accoimt of chronic parapliymosis, with preternatural opening of tlie urethra behind the glans, I found a tight piece of packthread deeply imbedded in the penis, and constituting the ti-ue stricture.