405 LIGATUKE. tached and manipulated, so as to interfere with its vitality, and thus cause either ulceration or sloughing; and thence the nuich-dreadod hemor- rhage ; the means adopted to prevent this result timiiug out the most likely to insui-e its occurrence. Success depends mainly on a skilful use of the ligature; and too much caution cannot be used in its application. The vessel is exposed by careful dissection, somewhere on the cardiac side of the anemism ; not so close as to endanger the encountering a suspected maximum of atheromatous degeneration; not so far removed as to favour too free a collateral supply of blood still remaining to the tumour. The external wouud should be rather too large than too small; faciUty and safety of performance being closely allied in this operation. The incisions are made Avith a small finely-edged scalpel, used lightly, l^either directors nor blunt knives should be employed ; for they must bruise and tear to a certain extent; and the simpler and smoother the cut is, the greater is the probability that both wound and artery will assume a salutary condition. The vessel having been exposed, its sheath—pinched up, if need be, by dissecting forceps—is opened to the extent of about half an inch ; and by repeated touches of the knife's point, assisted by forceps, the arterial coats—looking at last white by the insulation—are completely detached from all neighbouring tissues ; only however to a very limited extent; not more than what is barely sufficient for the passage of the needle and ligature. The aneurism-needle should have its point neither too sharp, to endanger wounding of the arterial coats ; nor too bluut, to render tearing and force necessary for its passage. Armed with a firm, round ligature, of silk or thread—well waxed, to facilitate application— it is gently insinuated beneath the artery at the detached point; great care being taken to exclude all textures, save the arterial, from within its circuit; more especially nerves and veins. Having passed, the ligature is laid hold of, and retained, while the needle is withdrawn. The loop of the ligature is then cut, and one half pulled gently away. The re- maining portion is secuxed on the vessel with a reef knot; drawn with such tightness as affords to the operator's fingers the peculiar sensation of the internal and middle coats having given way. One end is cut off close to the knot; the other is left pendant. The wound is then brought carefully together by suture and adhesive plaster—leaving the protruding end of the ligature readily amenable to both sight and touch— and is treated so as to promote adhesion. The limb is placed in a re- laxed and comfortable position, and so retained. In the case of deep-seated vessels, the more complicated needles of Weiss, Trant, etc., may be found useful; but in the majority of cases, the ordinary instrument, with ordinary skill, suffices. _ The hgature is not interfered with until the usual period for its sepa- ration has elapsed ; from ten to twenty or tliirty days, according to the size of the vessel. Then its free extremity may be gently touched. If lound loose, it is carefully withdrawn ; if still adherent, no pulHug is employed; we await patiently spontaneous loosening; and regard it as our duty to interfere and take away, only when the natm-al process of aetachment has been completed. % some it has been considered preferable to employ two ligatures.