CHAPTER XL. AFFECTIONS OF THE JAWS. Farulis. The term Parulis denotes the condition of Oimloil; inflammatory affec- tion of tlio periosteum covering tlie alveolar process, and of the bone itself, asually connected with a decayed tooth or portion of a tooth. The swell- ing causes much pain and discomfort, sometimes with smart constitutional disturbance. On suppuration taking place, relief is obtained by evacua- tion of the matter; but so long as the decayed tooth remains, a certain iischarge, with swelHng and pain, continues to prove the source of no flight annoyance, giving rise to suppuration and sinus of the cheek, in the instance of the upper jaw ; and along and below the base of the lower jaw, kvhen any of the lower range of teeth are thus affected; while discharge Tom the nasal cavity, and ajffections of the antrum, eyeball, pharynx, aid digestive organs, may be induced as a consequence of such long-con- iinued irritation. Treatment varies according to the stage of advance- nent. At first, the affection just originating, the decayed tooth should 36 removed at once, and bleeding from the wound encouraged ; and after- vards, if need be, blood may be further withclrawn by leeching the iffected part—the animals being most conveniently applied through a ;lass tube. When matter has formed, it should be early and fully ivacuated; and after the excitement following incision has abated, under iidinary antiphlogistic means, the offending tooth or stump should be xtracted. To perform extraction earlier, might be to aggravate the in- Eatory process unnecessarily. Tien the matter has formed and been discharged, extraction of the will ordinarily suffice for effecting contraction and closure of the rging aperture, with subsidence of the swelling and pain. If not, of the many sidtable astringent solutions may be applied to the The removal of the offending tooth will always cure the other remote affections, of which it may have been the cause, pub's denotes a solid tumour of the gum, of non-inflammatory ; but often in its commencement connected with the presence decayed tooth, or portion of alveolus. It may be either simple or Qant. The simple form originates either in the periosteum of the us or in the bony texture itself; the surface from wliich it proceeds lerally limited, and rarely includes more than the alveolar ridge of or four teeth, llic excrescence is of firm consistence, lobulated or