392 TRAUMATIC ANEURISM. Traumatic or Accidental Aneurism. In the traumatic form, as abeady stated, the aneurismal cyst is not composed of any of the arterial coats, but entirely constructed from the tissues exterior and adjoining to the vessel. 1. Most frequently, it is the result of wound; all the coats being at once perforated; blood escaping in considerable volume and force, and thereby condensing for itself a cyst; the cyst subsequently becoming strengthened, yet dilating in the ordinary way. 2. Or it may be the result of laceration; as ia fracture of the Umb. Or it may occur independently of fracture; as by the employment of undue force in reducing dislocation. The main artery is torn, either partially or completely. Profuse hemorrhage is the result, which, finding no external outlet, infiltrates the neighbouring soft parts, or perhaps distends them to form a large bloody pool. The arterial aper- ture does not heal, but, remaining patent, establishes a permanent com- munication j and so the diffuse form of aneurism is produced. 3. Accidental aneurism may occur in another way; by laesion irrespec- tive of traumatic injury, yet quite external to the arterial coats. These may be perforated by ulceration from without. An abscess forms in the immediate vicinity of an arterial trunk. Evacuation is delayed; and spontaneous approach to the surface is repressed by fibrous investments. The cavity of the abscess enlarges deeply, and compresses the arterial tissue. This at first bends before the pressure, and is besides protected by plastic product, which seems as if specially provided for this end. But, as the abscess continues to enlarge and pressure to increase, the utmost limit of accommodation on the part of the artery is reached ; and its tissues, themselves now involved in the suppurative change, at length give way by ulceration. The arterial canal becomes continuous with the cavity of the abscess, through an ulcerated aperture, perhaps of no great size; the cavity, formerly filled with pus, becomes occupied by blood j and what was an abscess, has become an aneurism. One obvious advantage of the narrow aperture of communication is, that the pus is gradually, and not at once, brought into the general circulation—for a time, pro- bably, continuing to whirl in turbulent motion within its own cyst; and thus the system may be saved from those formidable symptoms which might follow any considerable and direct admixture of pus with the cir- culating mass of blood. A memorable example of this form of the disease was afforded by the hospital experience of Mr. Liston (p. 182). It is only fair, however, to state that this mode of formation of an aneurism is denied by several practical surgeons. These acknowledge that an artery exposed in the sac of an abscess frequently gives way by ulceration, after the opening of the purulent collection, but deny that any communication, as above described, of the arterial channel with the abscess sac, ever forms antecedent to such opening. A case once occurred in my hospital practice which seems to bear strongly on the point. A woman was stabbed in the arm, by means of a blunt knife, and lost much blood at the time. About eight days after- wards, the wound being in an ulcerating state, serious hemorrhngo occurred; and, cutting into the part, I secured two bleeding arterial points by ligature. After this, the wound healed kindly though slouly,