1113 INCONTINENCE OF URINE. warm water; and then, by the exhaustion of a powerful and well-fitting syi-ingo, to endeavour to break down and remove at least some of the clot. When, however, this cannot be effected, wliilo painful disten- sion of the bladder and retention of urine continue, an incision of the membranous portion of the urethra in the middle line, upon a stricture staff, should be practised, through which a large-sized lithotomy tube is lodged in the bladder. In the case of spontaneous disruption of stone, attended with such complication, it is expedient to have instant recourse to lithotomy, provided the state of system be found sufficiently tolerant of such a severe proceeding. 3. From the Urethra.—In this case there is absence of both renal and vesical symptoms ; the blood passes pure, irrespective of any desire to evacuate the bladder; and there is usually some plam cause for the acci- dent—as injury, inflammatory access, erection in cbordee, or excessive venereal excitement. The application of cold, with recumbency, usually suffices for arrest.- In extreme cases, following chordee, pressure may be made on or near the orifice, and at the perineum; so as to include the source of bleedmg between the two compressed points—preventing escape in either direction, and converting the effused blood into its own hemostatic; or a full-sized metallic catheter having been passed into the bladder and tied in, the pressure upon the urethra can be made still more accurate and efficient. In the case of wound, the ordinary prin- ciples of surgery are put in force. Enuresis, or Incontinence of Urine. Practically, this malady may be divided into that which affects the adult and the aged, and that which happens in children. In the former one of two events has taken place. Eetention of urine has occurred; the bladder has become greatly distended; and the recently secreted urine, finding no room in the viscus, involuntary dribbling from the penis takes place proportioned to the rapidity of secretion. In other words, incontinence in this case is but a symptom of a more serious affection—retention of urine. Or, as more frequently happens in the aged, the parts have simply lost their tone; the expelling power is small, while the retaining power is almost or wholly gone; and the m-ethra is little more than a passive tube, through which the urine flows outwards, shortly after secretion. In the former case, treatment is by the use of the catheter; directing our attention to the true disease— retention.* The other form is regarded as but one of the many signs of senile decay. Temporary relief may in some cases be afforded, by the internal use of iron and strychnine; a degree of tone being restored to the parts for a time. But, in general, we have to content ourselves with attention to comfort and cleanliness, by the wearing of valvular urinals adapted to the circumstances of the case. In the adult, incontinence of urine sometimes follows rheumatic or other fevers; it may also result from injury of the spine; and it is an ordinary symptom of the sIoav degeneration of the spinal cord formerly • Called to a case of incontinence in the adult, the existence of distended bladder should always be suspected, and examination made accordingly.