1089 LITIIOTEIPSY, urine has never been healthy in its character, or it has altered at an early- period of these untoward symptoms; by and by it becomes like turbid Avhey ; it has a faint, sickly smell; it coagulates on the addition of nitric acid and when exposed to heat; tlie patient loses flesh and strength ; his stomach foils him; he becomes sick and vomits ; he begins to dose ; and then he falls into a state of coma from which he never awakes; or he is seized with convulsions in which he expires."* Such, then, we hold to be the true position of lithotripsy; appli- cable to certain cases of stone ; for these less hazardous than lithotomy, and therefore to be preferred j always, however, liable to the objections of long time—comparatively—consumed in treatment, risk by repe- tition of the operation, and the danger of exciting or aggravating renal disease. When a favourable case presents itself, the operation is not at once performed; a certain period of preparation is essential. The general functions must be placed in a healthy state ; tongue clean, pulse natural, bowels open, skin acting well, etc.; all phlogistic tendency must be overcome, by a certain amount of antiphlogistic regimen; the urethra— if need be—must be dilated, and deprived of morbid irritability, by the occasional use of a bougie; the bladder, too, must be accustomed to tolerable distension. A weak solution of the bicarbonate of potass or soda may also be given ; with the double view of amending the secretion of urine, and assuaging both renal and vesical irritability—especially the latter—at the same time favouring disintegration, by loosening cohesion of the calculous particles. Circumstances being deemed favourable, the patient is placed recum- bent, on a convenient table, bed, or couch; with the pelvis elevated on Fig. 833. a cushion, so as to throw the stone into the fundus of the bladder, away from the neck; and with the bladder as fuU of urine as possible, in order to admit of seizure, retention, and crushing of the stone taking * Willis on Stone, p. 108. Fig. 333. Plan of lithotripsy. The stone caught, and the instrument in a suitable position for crushing. 4 A