262 ENTOZOA OF SKIN. ENTOZOA WHICH AFFECT THE INTEGUMENT. In the West Indies, a small insect, tlie Cliirjoe {Pulex penetram), lodges in the subcutaneous tissues of the foot, and hreeds there, causing great itching of the jDurt; and forming a small cyst, which enlarges into a swelling about the size of a pea. Treatment consists in extraction of the cyst, entire ; otherwise, troublesome suppuration is apt to ensue. To ensure thorough extirpation, the use of an escharotic may sometimes be expedient. In China, India, Africa, and other hot climates, the Guinea worm {Draounculas, or Filaria mecUnensis) troubles mankind ; lodging, Uke the other, in the subcutaneous tissues ; having probably penetrated the skin when small. As it grows, a painful and itchy swelling forms; sometimes corded; sometimes like a varicose vein; sometimes more diffuse, like an abscess. Ultimately suppuration takes place, the skin gives way, the animal is partially exposed, and a painful festering sore remains. While the creature is merely enlarging in bulk, the disturb- ance it occasions may be but slight; but when the period of reproduction arrives, it seeks to perforate the skin, and causes furunculous disorder. If injured then, a milky fluid is found to exude from it, which, imder the microscope, shews myriads of young worms. So long as the animal retains its lodging, the inflammatory process continues; and may become serious by intensity and diffusion. To prevent this, and obtain healing, it is necessary to extract the worm; not at once, but gradually. A por- tion, having been exposed, is attached to a small roll of j)laster, or other suitable substance; and by gradually winding it on this roller, day by day, the creature is removed entire. An attempt at immediate extrusion is sure to fail; the worm breaking short, growing again, and reproducing the inflammatory evils. TUMOUES OE THE INTEGUMENT. Warts are of two great classes; Simple and Mahgnant. The simple are considered to be prolongations of the papillae, changed somewhat in structure as well as hypertropliied; sometimes flat and diflfused; some- times prominent, and cylindrical in form. When situate on the outer part of the body, the investing cuticle is thick, rough, and dry. On the inner part of the body, and more especially when opposing surfaces are affected, as within the prepuce and vulva, and upon the thighs and nates, the cuticle is thin and dehcate ; and a sero-purulent discharge is exlialed. These formations may again be divided into Common and Venereal. The former of spontaneous origin, miconnected with any apparent cause; usually dry, very vascular, sensitive, sessile, and discrete. The latter dependent on the pre-existence of some form of venereal, or, it may be, simple source of irritation ; humid, usually aggregate; sometimes at- taining to an enormous size, and situated on or in the neighbourhood of the organs of generation. / The dry variety can best be removed by scissors, or nitric acid. In