PECULIAIUTIES OF ULCEKS. 128 At the samo time, mucli attention is paid to tlio lower bowels; keeping them clear of obstruction; and thereby removing a cause, not more obvious than common, of both occurrence and continuance of varix in the lower limbs. 2. The lodgment of foreign matter may complicate an ulcer; effectu- ally preventing cicatrization. This may have come from without, consist- ing of wood, stone, iron, cloth, etc. Or it may have an internal origin ; consisting of necrosed bone, dead tendon, or ordinary slough of fascia or areolar tissue ; the result of suppuration, either then or previously. Of whatever nature, and whencesoever come, the foreign body is amenable to but one treatment—early and complete removal. Some little excite- ment follows the manipulation necessary to effect that object; and is to be met by rest, fomentation, poultice, and other usual antiphlogistics. On subsidence, the granulating process begins ; and is conducted under the ordinary treatment. 3. The Sinuous Ulcer.—Sinus may co-exist with ulcer; preceding or accompanying. If it do not fill up and contract spontaneously, keep- ing pace with the corresponding change in the sore, it is to be treated independent^. Pressure, in the first instance, is appHed; direct, and regulated according to the principles formerly inculcated (p. 97). If this fail, then the sinus—usually superficial—is to be laid open; either by knife, or by potass, as circumstances may render expedient. If the term sinus be applied to the undermining of integument, and unsoundness of areolar tissue, which invariably characterise the scrofulous sore, then the use of potass to these will be advisable ; for the reasons formerly given (p. 114). 4. The Pustular Sore {Impetiginous or Herpetic).—Sometimes an eruption of pustules, or vesicles soon becoming purulent, takes place on some part of the surface of a limb; and on the pustules giving way, ulceration continues. The sores, at first inflamed, may become irritable. Often they pass early into the weak form ; not, however, before the pre- viously active stage has considerably diminished the intervening patches of skin. These afterwards assume the healing process; and proceed lazily and imperfectly in the work of cicatrization. If heahng be long delayed, the insular portions of skin thicken, and rise in the edges ; and then the character of Indoleut sores may be more or less completely as- sumed. This variety of ulcer, in some respects, resembles the scrofulous and cachectic sores. But it differs from both ; in commencing in the super- ficial layers of the true skin : in the absence of tubercular product in the inter-ulcerous texture ; and in the absence of any constitutional evil, other than what may be termed common derangements of the general health. Perhaps, in its early stage, at least, it were more naturally ranged among Eruptions than among Sores. Treatment varies according to the aspect of the part; sometimes water-dressing ; sometimes nitrate of silver ; sometimes stimulant lotions ; sometimes strapping. Uniform local support and constitutional care are required to prevent relapse. 5. A peculiar ulcerous affection attache the foot; commencing about the toes, creeping upwards, and at length reaching the ankle. The