620 PRACTURE OF THE BASE OF THE SKULL. through one of the sinuses, the new hone has sometimes been so consi^ clerahle as permanently to obstruct its venoiis channel Fissure. Capillary solution of continuity is, in itself, a thing of but littli importance. But the shock which has caused it may well occupy ou4 attentive regard. The fissure itself, indeed, may in its formation hav«i proved an actual advantage ; rendering the concussion less intense an less hazardous than it might have been, had the ringing calvarium mained entire. The fissure may be short, and bounded by sutures ; or it may travet several of these, and be of great extent; as in the instance of the Dt d'Orleans, who died from being thrown from his carriage in 1842 ; tl whole osseous case was split into two parts. Fissuring may take pi at the part struck, or at the site of the contrecoap. It may be conjoine or not, with rupture of the dura mater at the fissured part; and if it ij so conjoined, compression by extravasation is Hkely to ensue. Whe the injury is situate at the base of the cranium, it is usually associat with such rupture; and extravasation occurring at this site, even toe slight extent, we have already seen to be of the gravest import. The symptoms attendant on fissure are usually those of concussiox in the first instance ; and these may be followed by those of compressic by extravasation. Inflammatory accession is not unlikely ; giving tl ordinary train of symptoms, varying according to the part and texttt^ involved. And these, again, may be merged in the symptoms of coi pression by suppuration. If the injury be compound, the existence fissure is ascertained by the finger or probe. If it be simple, the fia may very probably elude detection; the case being treated as one simple concussion. Long ago, it was the custom, in the treatment of this injury, to &.i pose the fissure throughout its whole extent, by incision ; and to appi the trephine repeatedly in its course ; probably in the hope of liberat extravasated blood. But no one now thinks of thus aggravating whatlj in itself comparatively simple. It is time enough to take up the trepl when symptoms of compression, by blood or by pus, are so plain and] urgent as to demand its use. It is not often, as already explained, tli on the first count we are called upon to operate; and, if we have se the case from the first, it may be our own fault if we have to interfd on account of any untoward inflammatory result. The treatment chiefly expectant. "We await reaction from the efi"ects of concussioi watch the period when extravasation is likely to occur ; and, if need IJ then interfere—repressingly. That period of danger having passed, \| are again quiescent, though alert; looking out for symptoms of infla matory accession; and ready to oppose these with energy, should appear. Fissure at the base of the Cranium. Solution of continuity, in this situation, is usually a fissure ; <H ruption, more or less extensive, without cunnninution or disi'lacemej