AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. 761 if possible, as, if my scar results, the surgeon is sure to be blamed for the tUsfigurement. Irritation of the sebaceous folUcles, and too fi-ee an indulgence in fatty articles of diet, appai-ently predispose to their forma- tion. Spas^m. Spasmodic twitching of the muscles on one side of the face—the orbi- icularis palpebrarum, the levators and retractors of the upper lip, and the corresponding muscles of the nose—is an unpleasant affection of no un- common occurrence. Often it will yield to general treatment; more especially to regulation of the primaB vise. Sometim.es, also, patient comiter-irritation is of use, directly over the part; and probably the pre- ferable mode of applying this, is by rubbing on nitrate of silver in sub- stance, so as to vesicate. In chronic and obstinate cases, tenotomy has been had recourse to.* In one example, permanent cure followed sub- cutaneous division of the zygomatici, the levator anguli oris, a portion of the WUcularis palpebramm, and the depressor alee nasi In order to restrain hemorrhage, and consequent ecchymosis, nicely to result from such a cross wound of the face, accurate pressure is necessary immediately after with- Idrawal of the knife. In many instances, however, the affection is due to Imental influences disturbing the nervous balance which directs the luscles of expression, and is quite as little under remedial control as Iblushing. In such cases division of the muscles could only make mat- iis worse. Neuralgia. Neuralgia affecting the branches of the fifth pair of nerves is termed ! Douloureux; at once, unfortunately, one of the most distressing and lost unmanageable affections to which the human frame is liable. The reatment is supposed to fall within the peculiar province of the phy- ician; and consists in carrying out the general principles on which the lagement of neuralgia is ordinarily conducted. At one time the surgeon's aid was not unfrequently sought; division of the trunk of the fected nerve being supposed likely to afford at least an alleviation of } distressing symptoms. Experience has proved, however, that such operation is in most cases inexpedient; the relief, if any, is but partial and temporary; and the neuromatous enlargements, which form on the icated extremities of the nerve, are likely to produce ultimate aggra- iration. The operation, in truth, may be the means of converting an Bxample of neuralgia, unconnected with structural change, in any part of phe nerve, into a worse form, dependent on structural change, not only considerable, but probably irremediable. Sometimes the operation has ?roved successful upon one nerve, only to diive the neuralgia to another -perhaps inaccessible. Very seldom does it effect a complete cure. In ' fortunate examples the cause of the neuralgia must have lain in the peripheral distribution of the nerve beyond its emergence from its osseous al, or where formation of osseous matter around the orifice of the canal las admitted of removal at the same time that the nerve has been divided. • DiEFFENBACH on Division of Tendons and Muscles, Berlin, 1841, p. 315.