1042 FISTULA IN ANO. condition of the cavity and aperture—obviously unfavourable to contrac- tion and consolidation ; the frequent, almost constant, passage of foreign matters along the track; and frequent motion caused by the action of the levator and sphincter ani. The sinus may be monolocular or multi- locular ; that is, consisting of one simple track, or having more than one collateral sinus connected with the main and original one—the minor probably the result of recurring suppurations. The cavity may be wide within; more frequently it is narrow—of the nature of true fistula ; it may extend liigh above the sphincter, more frequently its end is -wathin two inches of it. The internal opening—to be found in the great majo- rity of cases—is invariably witliin easy reach of the finger; usually about an inch and a half from the orifice ; of various dimensions, some- times so small as not to admit the end of a common probe, but seldom if ever so large as to allow the passing of a finger's point. The proximate cause of complete fistula is perforating ulceration from without or from within. Some authorities believe the origin is always from within ; rectitis, or a foreign body, produces perforation ; through the aperture, fseculent matter escapes into the areolar tissue v/ithout; abscess forms there, which, only partially discharged by the internal and original opening, ultimately gains the surface, on the nates, and is thence mainly evacuated. That such is the state of matters in some cases there seems no reason to doubt. But it cannot be denied that the majority follow a different course. Abscess begins in the external areolar tissue of the ischi«-rectal fossa, idiopathic, or caused by injury, or following exposure to cold; it slowly advances outwards, at the same time bur- rowing by the side of the bowel. The matter may escape externally, while the rectal coats are yet intact, constituting bhnd external fistula. Much more frequently, there is the internal opening too ; of secondary formation, however, not primary—caused by the pressure from without. Very frequently, fistula in ano is co-existent with pulmonary phthisis ; probably caused by it, and constituting but one of the symptoms and signs of that intractable malady ; the tendency to ulceration of the intestines so common in phthisis—and so favourable to production of the initiatory perforation occurring in the lower part of the rectum—readily explaining how the anal and pulmonary afi'ections should not unfrequently be in close connection. The diagnosis of a fistula is not complete, till careftd examination has been made, by means of the probe and finger. The latter having been introduced into the bowel, the probe—with a flat spatulate handle, which renders it more obedient to the hand, and enables it to indicate with certainty the direction of the point when curved—is passed gently into the track, or tracks, so as to ascertain their number, position, and extent; but most especially to ascertain the exact position of the internal aperture —that is, on what aspect of the bowel it has formed; for, as already stated, it is as to height almost always just within the sphincter. In order to facihtate the entrance and movements of the probe, it is some- times necessary to dilate the external opening in the first instance. "When there is no outward opening, the case being an example of the blind internal variety, there are usually plain enough indications of the site of the abscess—hardness, discoloration, pointing, diminution of the