332 DIAGNOSIS BETWEEN and becomes the site of fungous protrusion. 8. OstGofiarcoma does not invade the neighbouring tissues ; but pushes tliem aside by its ej^pan- sion, and abides within the bono in which it was first developed.' In the upper jaw, for example, it remains limited to the expanded confines of the antrum. And, at those parts where the bony and even mem- branous parietes are deficient, there is no ulceration followed by fungous protrusion ; but only a moderate increase of growth, in a lobulated form, with or without a rawness of the surface. Osteocephaloma, on the other hand, pushes no texture aside, but early involves all; the antrum is soon passed beyond; the base of the cranium is aifected, even before much appearance has been made externally; and wherever deficiency of the investing texture occurs, ulceration and fungous growth are sure to follow. 9. Osteosarcoma long continues in the occult condition. Breach of the surface, when it does occur, does not extend rapidly, and evinces uo malignancy of character. The discharge is purulent, or puri- Fig. 142. Fig. 143. form; not profuse. There is no tendency to hemorrhage, unless by accidental injury ; and then it is slight, and easily restrained by pressure. Osteocephaloma soon passes from the occult to the open state. The ulcer spreads, and is obviously the seat of malignancy. Discharge is profuse, foetid, and bloody. Hemorrhage is not unlikely; of spontaneous origin, and little amenable to control. 10. Osteosarcoma does not spread; either by contiguity in the tissues, or remotely by the lymphatics. Osteocephaloma does both; at an early period, the lymphatics are manifestly and hopelessly involved. Such are the striking differences between the two tumours. The distinction is equally great in the treatment applicable to eacL It the tumour be an osteocephaloma, operation is warrantable only at o, very Fig. 142. Osteosarcoma of lower jaw. Hard, smooth, non-iilcerating. Slow in growth.—LiSTON. Fig. 14.3. Osteocephaloma, contrasted with the preceding. Soft, fungous, ulcerous, rai)idly enlarging, and involving all textures.—LisTON.