TREATMENT BY IODINE. iiyi neuralgic headache, the use of mercury would only aggravate the disease. In syphilis, on the contrary, as the use of the mercury is continued the patient becomes relieved from his depression, and grows light and buoyant in spirit; his debility ceases, liis complexion and appetite return, and refreshing sleep is restored. If, however, the effect is pushed beyond this point, bad results follow. Depression of mind and strength, a weak irregular pulse, and loss of appetite, may set in. From these considerations, it is contended that, while mercury and syphilis, and still more especially the whole mass of venereal affections, are no longer inseparable, it is yet to be admitted gratefully that this mineral is in not a few cases a most important and indispensable remedial agent; used, however, much more sparingly than in former times; and consequently, not only more efficient as a means of cure, but ■ also less likely to peril the future durability and soundness of the frame. Iodine and its compounds have long enjoyed a liigh reputation in the treatment of syphilitic affections. By some surgeons they have been regarded as equally potent for good, yet without the ill effects imputed to mercurials. By others again, iodine has" been supposed to be of use only or mainly after mercurial treatment; but this party consists of two sections—the one regarding the remedy as solely applicable to the advanced or transitional and tertiary stages of the disease, the therapeutic effects of iodine being in direct ratio to the duration of the diathesis; while the other section regard it as producing good effects, mainly, if not altogether, in virtue of its supposed power of rendering soluble the mercury, which is supposed, by them, to lurk in the system; and thus to its power of hurrying mercurial excretion, they ascribe its virtue in restoring the general health. In the early stage of the disease, while the sore exists, and in the interval between the commencement of the sore and the first appearance of the syphilitic eruptions, this remedy has little or no effect, either in the way of producing absorption of the induration of the chancre, or in delaying or modifying the appearance of the secondary symptoms; and the chloro-antemia and cephalalgia are but slightly if at all influenced by it. In the more advanced anaemia or cachexia, on the other hand, which usually exists along with the gummata, and affections of the bones and periosteum, the preparations of iodine act like magic ; and this effect is observed uniformly, whether mercurials have or have not been pre- viously administered. While this is generally admitted, however, the preparations of iodine are by some considered incapable of themselves exterminating the tertiary affections and preventing a relapse, unless mercurials are given to assist them in this cleansing process. In administering iodine, certain physiological effects of its use must be kept in mind as a standard to estimate its effects, and as a caution against continuing its use after a period when it is likely to do more harm than good. The first physiological effect is usually observed upon the mucous membrane of the nostrils, including the frontal sinus and antrum. The symptoms are those of acute or subacute coryza. By some, however, irritation of the fauces and bronchi, and even oedema glottidis, and gastro-intestinal irritation, have been ascribed to the use of this