CHAPTER LXII. AFFECTIONS OF THE TESTICLE. Orcldtis. The inflammatory process affecting the testicle may be acute or chronic; original, as following external injury; or a mere complication, the con- sequence or attendant of gonnorrhoea. Sometimes it is a, complication of Variola, or of Mumps—inflammatory enlargement of the glands in the upper part of the neck; then usually affecting the gland or its fibrous covering, and not improbably depending on metastasis. Gonorrhoeal orcliitis, or EjjididymiUs, as it should more properly be called, is usually acute, and is the most frequent form of the affection. It is also known as gonorrhoeal swelled testicle, or as vaginalitis, or by the absurd title of Hernia liumoralis. There being an increased suscepti- bility in all the genital system, during the existence of gonorrhoea, orchitis may be Mghted up at any time, by the application of a slight exciting cause ; as a squeeze, excess in walking or diet, exposure to cold and wet, or premature use of strong in- jection. But, without any apparent exciting cause, the attack very com- monly occurs ] and seldom until some time has elapsed—usually from the fourth to the sixth or eighth week of the gonorrhoea—the inflammatory process having had time gradually to creep backwards to the prostatic por- tion of the canal and orifices of the ejaculatory ducts. The gonorrha-al form is never the result of metas- tasis ; the affection always extends by continuity of tissue, descending along the vas deferens, wliich is usually painful before the infianuua- tory process seizes on the epididymis, and takes up its abode there. The affection should, therefore, in strict language be designated as an Epididymitis; and the swelhng of the whole testicle, which seems to occur, really depends on acute accumulation of serum in the tunica vaginalis. The occurrence of epididymitis has by some been too largely ait"ributed to the employment of injections, '^o doubt the premature use of strong and irritating fluids, injected forcibly along the canal, may Fig. 342. Acute orchitis ; attendant on gonorrliwa. Fig. 342.