CHAPTEE LI. INJUEIES AND DISEASES OF THe" SPINE. Concussion of the Spinal Cord. The spinal cord, like the brain, may sustain a concussion from faUs or blows j having its functions arrested or disordered, with or without actual lesion done to its structure. The concussion may be either general or partial. In the latter case, it is probable that the whole cord suffers, though unequally; the major effect beiug at and beneath the part struck —as denoted by paralysis, more or less complete, of motion and sensi- bihty in the part supplied by nerves which take origin below the seat of injury. This pai'alysis is transient, but recovery is not so rapid as in the case of the brain; the state of inaction usually, however, passing off in the course of hours, or, more commonly, in the coui-se of a day or two; not of longer duration when simple—that is, when not occasioned by laceration of the cord, or accompanied or followed by extravasation or effusion. As in the case of the brain, reaction may prove excessive, and inflammatory mischief may speedily supervene; attacking the cord, its membranes, or both, and ushering in a completely new train of symp- toms. Or—also as in the case of the brain—the immediate results of the injury may all seem happHy to pass away; and, at a remote period, an insidious chronic inflammatory process may occur, in the cord or in its membranes; causing, in the one case, softeniug of slow progress, in the other thickeniug with effusion. Treatment is guided by the same principles as in concussion of the brain. Absolute quietude is maiatained; and the catheter is introduced from time to time, should retention or dribbling be present. The jperiod of reaction is carefully watched. If it threaten to prove excessive, as indi- cated by the state of the pulse, flushing of the face, and uneasy sensations in the injured part shooting downwards through the paralyzed limbs, anti- phlogistic measures are adopted, such as bleeding, leeching, pm'gation by medicine given by the mouth, and the use of purgative enemata, accord- ing as circumstances may seem to demand, while warm fomentation wiU usually afford more relief to local pain than any other application. For a long period after the receipt of injury, whether followed or not by acute symptoms, recovery is usually very slow, and may be imperfect. Tlie patient must therefore be content, in every case, to use all the pre- cautions of a prudent invahd, so as to avert if possible the insidious and formidable remote results. These, having threatened, are best met by rest, and counter-irritation by blistering, or the use of stimulating Hni- ments, while appropriate constitutional treatment, consisting in the admmistration of mercurials and iodide of potassium, will frequently 3 p