TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. 473 too anxious or meddlesome surgeon, the greater is the probability of the desired result. Parts which have been wholly severed from the body—as portions of fingers, of the nose, of the eai-s, etc.—have been readjusted with suc- cess. Under fiivourable circumstances, reapplication may be made very carefully; retention being secured by suture and plaster, and the treat- ment conducted for adhesion. But the part is more likely to slough than to live; and, when it does adhere, sensation often returns in a perverted form, causing much uneasiness. Treatment for Granulation.—If adhesion fail, suppuration becomes established. The margins of the wound swell, redden, become painful, and tend to separate from each other; while from the chasm a more or less copious purulent secretion is discharged. Nothing can be worse in surgery—as a general rule—than the retention of sutures which constrict the parts or confine the discharge. The wound, by swelling, tends to open ; but is thwarted by mechanical means. Pus is formed, often copiously, and should be discharged freely; but this, by a mecha- nical and perverse shutting of the wound's mouth, is prevented. The parts are inflamed, and it is our object to moderate the attack—knowing well that until that has subsided, the process of healing cannot be begun ; but the continued stimulus of the strained sutures maintains and aggra- vates the untoward process. After a time, the noose ulcerates its own way out, and the part is relieved; but, ere this, much injury—local and constitutional—may have been sustained. Sometimes, however, sutures are retained for their merely physical eff'ect; though there be no chance of adhesion, and though the suppurating line of wound may be struggling to be free. In the operation for reclaiming simple fungus of the testicle, for example, sutures are so used; otherwise, during the granulating pro- cess by which the wound generally heals, at least in part, the fungus would spring upwards and again project—retarding or even frustrating the cure. And so there are exceptions to the rule. ^Vhile all sutures which confine discharge in a suppurating wound are in general not only useless but injurious, and ought to be removed, the plasters may be allowed to remain. They yield a little, so as to per- mit the due amount of opening in the wound ; yet still they retain an approximating power, and prevent undue resilience of the edges. They are not only left undisturbed, but, when loosened by the discharge, may be renewed. The secretion is wiped up frequently ; but no absorbing dressing is required; pledgets, compresses, and bandages, only heat and irritate the part, and determine suppuration. If anything be applied, light and simple water-dressing is enough; of no greater extent than IS sufficient to cover the line of wound. After a time, this dressing is medicated by some gentle stimulant, as the zinc or red lotion; and, if need be, bandaging is employed. There are many wounds, either altogether incapable of adhesion, or in which it is not to be expected. Those, for example, with loss of sub- stance, which cannot be approximated; and those which, from lodgment of foreign matter, or other cause, can scarcely fail to suppurate. In such, the treatment is precisely similar to that recommended for abscess, after 1UCI31011, and in tlie management of Lhe simple suppurating ulcer. Here,