1303 AFFECTIONS OF THE KNEE AND HAM. the cover of symptoms characteristic of chronic rheumatism in the part. Tlie importance of the disease to the practitioner consists in its liability to occur after bruise of the hip and trochanter in elderly patients ; and iu the danger of the subsequent deformity being attributed to a fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, which, it is supposed, ho has overlooked or maltreated. On dissection the changes sometimes very closely simulate those of fracture on the thigh-bone, within the capsule. The symptoms are—pain extending to the knee, becoming worse at night and increased upon motion, stiffness of the joint, sliortening of the limb, and eversion of the foot. Rest and gentle counter-irritation may be required at first, with the continued use of the hot salt-water douche bath. The actual cautery does not generally afford satisfactory results. Constitutional alteratives—especially the iodide of potassium, and colchicum with quinine and opium—will be found serviceable in the early stage. Mer- curials are for the most part contra-indicated. The diet should be strictly conformable to that suited to a gouty or rheumatic habit, while stimulants of all kinds are injurious. In the advanced stage remedies are of little avail; except indeed the warm bathing, which, with friction aud regulated exercise, should be diligently persevered in. Suppuration never occurs in these cases. Affections of the Knee and Ham. Affections of the knee are not so i^eculiar as to require separate con- sideration. This joint, it will be remembered, is especially subject to syno- vitis, acute and chronic j to degeneration of the synovial membrane and to disease of the bone, with involvement of the cartilages; and to the formation of loose bodies within the synovial cavity. It is not so suit- able for the operation of Eesection as the elbow or shoulder joints ; the only useful result being an anchylosed limb, to obtain which requires a very long-continued confinement of the patient to bed. The only cases in which, from observation, we should be inclined to recommend the operation are—1. Cases of injury in which an operation is performed either primarily for compound dislocation, or secondarily for fracture through the condyles with very great deformity ; or when suppuration has taken place in consequence of wound, and the alternative is excision or amputa- tion ; 2. Cases of disease commencing in the articulating ends of the bones, not of a scrofulous kiad, yet terminating in suppuration. There are, again, cases of disease commencing in chronic thickening of the synovial membrane, yet advancing to great involvement of the hard textures, but where the patient is of a healthy constitution and not as yet exhausted—except by pain—when the choice of the patient in favour of excision should be acceded to. In scrofulous cases, especially when occurring in children or adolescents Avho have not attained their full height, excision should be unhesitatingly rejected ; because exhaustion is very apt to occur from the long confinement to bed, and also because the principal points of growth in length, of both femur and tibia, having been removed by the operation, such a development of the limb cannot be expected as will make it correspond to its healthy fellow. The operation may be practised, either by an II incision, or by elevat-