CHAPTER XXVIIL ON AN'^STHESIA 11^ SUEGEEY. The employment of anjesthesia in surgery is fully established ; and, in this place, it is no longer necessary either to argue in its favour, or to trace the steps whereby it has become secure in public confidence—as a threefold agent of good :—1. Suspending sensation, and absolving the patient from pain ; 2. Suspending voluntary and involuntary motion, and so facilitating the manipulations of the surgeon ; 3. Protecting the system from the shock of operation which Avould else occur, and so ren- dering amputations practicable in circumstances otherwise hopeless. It is enough to advert briefly to the circumstances of its administration. Chloroform and ether are the agents at present in use ; and, in this country, the former is usually preferred. It should be of great purity, and of sp. gr. 1.497. The inhalation is managed cautiously, by an experienced hand ; and in the important operations of surgery, during which the attention of the surgeon ought to be undistracted, and solely occupied with his operative ■work, it is essential to have an assistant to whom the charge of the anses- thetic process can be safely and wholly committed : one who has sufficient self-control to limit his observation and attention exclusively to watching the effects of the chloroform—however interesting and attractive the surgical proceedings may happen to be. Usually no special instrument for administration is employed; it being found more simple and safe to use a towel, handkerchief, or such like cloth, concavely arranged, and moderately saturated with the chloro- form. The cloth is held near to the mouth and nostrils, so as to insure full inhalation of the vapour, while at the same time a sufficient amount of atmospheric air has access, so as to prevent the risk of asphyxia. Gentle, deep, regular inspirations are the best, in a passive state. And the patient is to be exempted from all noise and movement as much as possible. No patient is proof against good chloroform well administered. Some require a much larger dose than others ; but, sooner or later, all will succumb. In those who long resist, special care is necessary to watcli the effects after a considerable quantity of the anaesthetic has been con- sumed. The administrator, when the patient is " over," and the stertorous con- dition of breathing has been induced, has a constant eye to the countenance and chest, an attentive ear to the coming and going of the laryngeal hreatliing, and a frequent hand upon the pulse—the state, of the hreath- ^ny being over uppermost in liis mind. It is time for him to withdraw