CHAPTER VIII. SCEOFULA, AND TUBEECULAE DISEASE. The term Scrofula is usually applied to a constitutional affection, occui-ring for the most part in early life, of essentially chronic develop- ment, and characterized by a tendency to various destructive diseases of the bones and joints; often accompanied by enlargement of the lymphatic glands, and by disorganizing affections of the skin and mucous mem- branes—these occurring either separately or together, and without obvious or adequate exciting cause. Under this somewhat comprehensive defini- tion, it is obvious that a great number of different local disorders may, and indeed must, necessarily find a place; and we accordingly have the term scrofula, and scrofulous disease, applied by many writers to types of local affection which are only very indistinctly, if at all, connected with a constitutional cachexy. In the absence of more unequivocal signs of constitutional disorder (such as extensive involvement of the lymphatic system), it is therefore almost essential to the idea of scrofula, as we have defined it, that there be an association of a number of maladies, pointing to a vitiation of the general system as their common cause. This rule, however, only applies to the well-developed affection; for, in its early origin, a single local disorder not unfrequently presents such characteristic symptoms, as enable the experienced practitioner to judge with tolerable certainty of the existence of the yet latent constitutional evil. The frequent association of scrofula with a peculiar form of morbid product, has been long observed. Tliis formation, which will presently be described under the name of tiiherde, occurs very frequently in enlarged lymphatic glands; leading to a slow process of suppuration and ulcera- tion there. It may also affect various internal organs, as the lungs, brain, intestinal and mesenteric glands ; in which situations it proves the source of various destructive diseases. We cannot, however, limit the term scrofula, as some have done, to disorders arising from tubercular forma- tion ; inasmuch as most affections of the skin, mucous membranes, and joints, in scrofulous individuals, have no such origin. Nor, on the other hand, can it be admitted that tuberculization of the internal organs, at least in adult life, is always, or even generally, a disease of the scrofulous habit. All that can be fairly said is, that tubercular disease of the ex- ternal glands is a frequent concomitant of scrofula; as is also a similar affection of the mesenteric glands. And that, in a certain indeterminate number of instances, tubercuUzation of internal organs follows, or accom- panies, the characteristic evidences of scrofulous disease; while, in others, It 13 quite an independent affection. Still, however, as most of the forms of tubercidar disease which come under the notice of the surgeon are