SCROFULA. 202 larized, possessed of but little sensibility, and not effectual towards cicatrization. Closure advances tediously and imperfectly; is long of being completed ; and, when completed, is unstable and unsatisfactoiy. The cicatrix is blue, soft, and liable on the least reaccession of the in- flammatory process to be undone by ulceration ; the ulcerous part has been covered over by a film, but not truly healed, for so long as any tubercular matter remains undischarged, it is incapable of producing a permanent and satisfactory cicatrix—white, firm, and depressed. To effect this, the tubercular material must be removed, by the act either of the surgeon or of E"ature*—by caustic, or by spontaneous disintegra- tion ; on a firm foundation alone can the true reparative structure be raised. Even when an apparently satisfactory cicatrix has been obtained, the cure is not to be regarded as complete ; for if the constitutional vice remain unremoved, as too frequently is the case, disease is hkely to return in the original site, as well as elsewhere. In treatment, there- fore, our attention must be directed fxilly more to the system than to the part; and also, the constitutional care must be maintained long after healing of the local disorder. The most serious complications of scrofulous disease, however, which come under the care of the surgeon, are the affections of the bones and joints. They generally arise fi-om slight injuries ; but still the result is very much out of proportion to the cause. They are sometimes of a peculiar character; but frequently do not differ essentially from ordinary inflammatory affections, except in being slower in progress and more obstinate in cure. The affections of the eye and skin, in the scrofulous, are also peculiar ; and, with the others, will be adverted to hereafter. Tuhercle, the morbid formation so often found in scrofulous glands, as well as in internal organs, is a substance presenting very imperfect organization. In its most recent form, it consists of small, rounded granules or knots, each not larger than a pin's head. This constitutes a new formation produced by the proliferation of the connective tissue, and consists, throughout its whole mass, of small single or many nucleated cells. At its commencement, like other new formations, it is not unusually pervaded by vessels ; but when it enlarges, its cellular constituents throng so closely together, that the vessels become impervious, and only the larger ones, which merely traverse the tubercle, remain intact. Generally, fatty degeneration sets in at an early period in the centre of the tubercle, where the cell multiplication first began, and where, therefore, the oldest cells lie. Then reabsorption of the fluid commences, the corpuscular elements shrivel, the centre becomes yellow and opaque, and a yellow spot is seen in the middle of the grey translucent tubercle. Tliis is the * " By Nature I always mean a certain assemblage of natural causes, wliicli, though destitute of reason and contrivance, are directed in the wisest manner, whilst they per- form their operations, and produce their effects. Or, in other words, that Supreme Being, by M'hose power all things are created and preserved, disposes them all in such manner, by His infinite wisdom, that they proceed to their appointed functions with a certain regularity and order, performing nothing in vain, but only what is best and fittest for the whole frame of the universe, and tlieir own peculiar nature ; and so are moved like machiues, not by any skill of their own, but by that of the axiiat."—Sydenham.