621 TREATMENT OF BUENS AND SCALDS. much more by contraction of tho old structures than by the formation of new ; the new matter is imperfectly organized, and liable to absorption ; and, consequently, contraction continues, for some considerable time after apparent completion of the cicatrix. Exceptional cases there are, no doubt; where either the old tissues have been less destroyed, or the new matter is thrown out in excess, forming large, dense, unseemly elevations of the cicatrix. Treatment.—No class of injuries has been more the subject of em- pirical treatment than burns, even in the profession. And yet the indi- cations can be laid down, as plainly as in any other affection. 1. Assuage locaUy. The smarting pain of even a slight burn is not easily borne, and the sufferer seeks anxiously for reHef If he be seen immediately after the infliction, and the extent of injury be small, there is nothing better than instant immersion of the part in cold water j where it is to be re- tained, not for minutes, but for hours ; the temperature being kept con- tinuously low, by additions, as circumstances may require. Or the cold may be applied by means of water or ice in bladders. A doubly bene- ficial result is obtained. The heat and pain are mitigated, and, at the same time, the inflammatory process is held in abeyance; in the slighter cases, it may never occur; in the more severe, its attack will be less violent than it otherwise would have been. Afterwards, it is our priucipal object to prevent the contact of atmospheric air; the stimulus of which would certainly induce, or aggravate, inflammatory accession. In the slighter cases—those of the first class, and a few of the second—■ we hope to avert suppuration altogether, and to obtain cure by resolu- tion, with or without vesication, and certainly without the formation of ulcer or secretion of pus. After discontinuance of the cold, therefore, the part must be protected in some way from without. By some carron oil (equal parts of lime water and olive oil) is extolled, by others flowers of sulphur, with sulphur ointment, is considered a panacea. Some advise that the surface should be coated by a layer of some bland adhesive suhstance, which will not irritate the raw or injm-ed surface, and yet will effectually exclude the air; as soap, gum, goldbeater's skin, or varnish. Gum Tragacanth is probably the most suitable, as recom- mended for unclosed wounds; it is certainly bland; with ordinary attention can be kept perfectly protective; and has the advantage of permitting the condition of the part to be observed, almost as well as if it were wholly uncovered. Others advise the part to be dusted over with starch or flour ; but, when vesication is expected, this, like the others just mentioned, is an objectionable form of protection; inasmuch as the serum bakes it into crusts, which crack, loosen, and are apt to irritate. But, better than anything else, the tender part should be carefully enveloped in a thick layer of soft, cleaned, cotton wadding, which is retained by gentle but firm bandaging. In such cir- cumstances, before applying the cotton, when vesicles exist, especially when large, they should be punctured or clipped, to permit free escape of their contents ; so relieving tension. But especial care should be taken not to ruffle or displace the cuticle, still less to remove it; for it is certainly tlie most intimate and the best ])rotcctor of the tender surfoco Deneath. To prevent tlie cotton wadding from atUiering Avhen the serous