CHAPTEE XXL OF BUENS AND SCALDS. Burns and Scalds denote injury done by excessive heat; applied in the former, by radiation, by flame, by molten metals, or by solids; in the latter, by heated fluids or vapour. Those inflicted by flame, heated oil, and steam, are the most severe; the temperature and intensity of com- bustion being great, or—as in the case of steam—the extent of surface acted on being usually very considerable. The dangers of this form of injury are various ; even to a greater extent than wounds, they are not mere casualties happened to a part. 1. There is a shock imparted to the system, when the burning is exten- sive and severe, or involves an important part : and under tliis shock the patient may perish, by syncope. 2. Imperfect or nervous reaction may result, to an excessive and uncontrollable degree; the patient sink- ing exhausted, under febrile tumult of the asthenic kind, at a very early period. Sometimes a deceptive lull precedes this form of reaction. An elderly patient, badly burned, may walk to hospital, and yet be dead in forty-eight hours. 3. Or reaction of the sthenic type proves excessive ; and under the violence of inflammatory fever, life may be endangered. 4. During the progress of inflammatory fever, the internal organs, more especially the lungs, are apt to suffer; seriously compHcating the case. At a more advanced period, fatal disease of the intestinal mucous coat may occur. 5. More remotely, tedious cicatrization, confinement, and discharge, are prone to peril the system by hectic. Death escaped^ life may be rendered very miserable, hj the deformity and impairment of function often inseparable from healing of the burn. The risks of burns and scalds, therefore, practically depend, 1st, upon the extent of surface implicated ; 2d, upon the degree or depth of the injury inflicted upon the parts affected ; 3d, upon the age and strength of constitution of the individual who has sustained the injury ; and 4th, as we shall see, in no small degree upon the site where the in- jury has been sustained. The classification of burns and scalds, at once most natural and most Tweful, is according to the degree to which the textures have sustained ^J^. I. The mere surface is involved, by a slight and temporary apphcation of heat; usually in the form of fluid or steam. A mere ery- thema results, usually terminating in resolution ; but not without risk, ■When occurring in the scalp, chest, and abdomen, when including any considerable extent of the surface, and especially when affecting a child of render years or an individual who has attained the other extreme of life. ' ihe cutis imdergoes the inflammatory process of a higher grade, am, swelling, and tension, are followed by vesication; and the vesicles