AMPUTATION OF THE FOKEAHM, 1358 Fig. 379. Amputation of the wrist. For the wrist, the shortest size will suihce ; the blade not much larger than that of a full-sized bistoury. The arm is steadied, with tlie hand in a state of pronation. The knife is laid on below the styloid process furthest from the operator — who stands on the patient's left — and is carried across the limb so a.s to form a semilunar wound on the dorsal aspect, whose centre extends as far as the second carpal range, and whose termination is below the styloid process on the side next the surgeon. An assistant retracts the flap thus formed. The wrist is bent, and disarti- culation eflFected ; the fact of the semilunar line of articulation looking forwards being borne in mind in effecting tliis manipula- tion. The blade of the knife is and, by cutting outwards and on the palmar aspect. In the Fig. 3T9. then laid in front of the doAvnwards, a suitable flap carpus ; is formed last part of the proceeding, the pisiform bone is to be avoided ; and, in endeavouring to escape from it, care must be taken not to notch the corresponding portion of integument. To avoid this more thoroughly, and retain as thick a cushion of soft parts as possible, the flap from the palm may be mapped out by cutting through the tissues of the palm from without inwards, and effecting disarticulation last of all. The radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries, require ligature. The only case, how- ever, in which this amputation should be preferred to the more com- mon one in the middle of the forearm, is that of injury to the meta- carpal region of the hand, from the bursting of a gun, or from a charge of shot passing though the hand—and where the surgeon has no saw within reach to enable him to perform the operation in the con- tinuity of the limb. The advantages claimed for the operation consist in the long stump and the retention of pronation and supination. These advantages, however, are foimd to exist only in theory ; for the radio- ulnar articulation, suppurating dxuing cicatrization of the stimip, becomes anchylosed, while the long stump forms an impediment to the adaptation of every form of apparatus. Besides, suppuration along the tendinous sheaths, and among the muscles of the forearm, is liable to occur. Amputation of the Forearm. Pressure being made on the brachial artery by means of a tourni- quet, or on the lower third of the axillary by manual compression, the limb is steadied, with the hand in a state of pronation. Two flaps are formed; one on the dorsal, the other on the palmar aspect. Below the