ENTKOPION. 1 cyclKl.s. G59 dust, etc., gain free access within the lids, and constant inJlamniatory iiTitation is kept up till the result is nearly as disastrous as if the in- verted cilia had been left alone. By Disticliiasis is understood a row of supernumerary cilia, growing iuwards, and causing the same unpleasant and untoward results as the foregoing affection. They are not in reality any new development, but displaced and atrophied eyelashes, which have undergone this deviation in consequence of long continued irritation of the glandular textures in the margin of the lids. The same treatment is required as for trichiasis. But more careful examination is expedient; inasmuch as tlie observer is apt to be deceived by seeing the ordinary eyelashes of their normal character; and, even when the lid is raised and scrutinised, the paucity, shumess, and paleness of the stray lashes, or the glutinous mucus wliich adheres to them, may often cause their presence to be overlooked ;—a serious matter; for unless they be noticed and removed, the inflamma- tory process will not only become established, but will prove uncon- trollable. To detect them readily, the lid should be inspected laterally, as Avell as in front; and the patient should be desired to turn his eye in different directions, so as to form a dark back-ground of the iris and pupil. Entropion. This is a turning in, not only of the eyelashes, but of the margin of the eyelid itself, attended with all the unpleasant consequences of trichi- asis, in an aggravated form. It may be temporary or permanent. In the former case, it is the result of inflammatory sAvelling of the eyelid; "the timiefied conjunctiva pressing out the orbital edge of the tarsus, [while its ciliary margin is turned inwards by the action of the orbicu- laris." * In other instances, when there is no swelHng, the irritability which is present produces such extreme spasmodic contraction of the orbicularis, that the tarsal margin of the lower, and sometimes even of upper lid becomes inverted. When it occurs in elderly persons, it -wdll generally be found to depend on relaxation of the integument pf the lid, flaccidity of the tarsus, and spasm of the marginal muscu- lar fibres of the orbicularis, whereby displacement inwards of the ciliary jaargin is produced. In the permanent form, fhe deformity may be due to contraction of ji cicatrix on the conjunctival aspect of the I'l, whereby the ciliary margin is directly 'ulled inwards; or, worst of all, it may de- 'cnd on incuiTation of the tarsal cartilage jtself, in consequence of opJithalmia tarsi, ' yophthahnia, or other chronic disease. Either eyeUd, or both, may be affected. In ^'S- 239- 'Jme cases a cicatrix of the cheek, or of the temporal, or of the frontal egion, may pi-oduce ectropion of one lid and entropion of its fellow. At IS evident that treatment must l)c both early and suitable, if wc * Lri"ri.;i,i- on Diseases of tlie Eye, p. 95. Kif,'. 239. Eiitri)i>ioii, anectiiig liotl