CHAPTEK XV. DISEASES OF THE ARTEEIES. Arteritis. This term denotes the inflammatory process affecting the arterial tissue; and may be either acute or chronic. Formerly, when exudation was presumed to constitute the essential characteristic of the inflammatory process, the absence of blood-vessels from the internal and from the deeper layers of the middle coat of the artery, was supposed to present insuperable difficulties to the occurrence of this disease in the arterial tissue. ISTow-a-days, however, we regard the artery quite as susceptible of inflammatory structural change, as the heart is to endo- and myocarditis. Acute Arteritis. The acute form may be limited to one portion of an artery; or it may be of a spreading kind. 1. The Sjpreading.—This is of comparatively rare occurrence. The patient is beyond the middle age, and of broken constitution. The disease is^seldom limited to one vessel, but pervades a large portion, or even the whole of the arterial system of the part affected. Except the aorta, the arteries of the limbs, especially the lower, are the vessels most frequently involved. The symptoms are obscure, and apt to be mistaken for those of rheumatism. There is much constitutional disturbance, as can readily be understood, of a febrile kind; but not shewing the usual sthenic signs of true inflammatory fever ; partaking more of the irritative and sometimes of the remittent type. The tracks of the main vessels affected are painful; and pain is increased by pressure and motion; induration, too, is felt; the pulse is feeble, and has a peculiar thrdling stroke ; its impulse gradually diminishes, and ultimately it wholly ceases in the part. The superimposed soft textures are seldom involved ; the skin remaining pale and otherwise normal in its appearance. The effects on the arterial coats are turgescence and cell proliferation, producing thickening and fusion of the different coats, affecting either the internal coat alone, or all the coats together, attended more par- ticularly with loss of the smooth serous character of the healthy internal tunic.. It becomes thickened, sclerosed, and cornea-Hke in appearance; the deeper parts look more opaque than its surfoce; and where they abut upon the middle coat, well-marked pultaceous atheromatous degeneration ensues in the proliferating connective tissue. The fibrin of the circulating blood, meanwhile, coagulates, and adheres to the changed tube; so that ultimately the canal is wholly occluded.