VAGINAL FISTULA. 1261 small hazel-nut; usually at the verge of the canal, partially projecting, hut sometimes also prolonged upwards into the urethra ; and sometimes it forms a complete circle surrounding it. The only remedy is by excision; or by simple ablation, followed by the use of an escharotic to repress growth. During healing of the wound, the nitrate of silver is of much use in restraining inordinate sensibility; applied lightly, every alternate day. But the growth is apt to reappear; again demanding treatment. In some cases, after removal the reproduction is larger than before, and nltimately a medullary growth developes itself, rapidly in- volving surrounding parts. Laceration of the Pemieum. This is a casualty of parturition; the parts tearing down towards the anus—perhaps with implication of the bowel. The wound is kept clean, and approximation is effected and maintained by adduction of the thighs. Suture in the recent state of the injury is quite improper; and should in fact be long delayed, as nature generally makes sufficient reparation of the injury. If necessary, the unclosed portion, having had its edges made raw by the bistoury, is brought together by means of silver sutures carried deeply, so as completely to include the whole of the raw surface. Formerly the quilled suture was employed, but our experience of wire sutures leads to the conclusion that tliis can rarely be necessary at the present day. If employed at all, wire should be used instead of thread, applied according to the ordinary rules. If after (or before) using the sutures, it be evident that the pared edges do not come easily together, then incisions through skin and sujDerficial fascia may be made parallel to the margins of the fissure, and at a distance from it of about an inch, as recommended by Dieffenbach. Latterly it has been suggested by Mr. Eaker Brown as more advisable, to divide the sphincter ani on both sides, either before or after inserting the sutures. By this plan muscular traction npon the united edges is annulled. After the operation the rectum should be kept at rest for several days. The urine should also be frequently drawn off in a very careful manner, to prevent any trickling over the pared edges. The sutures should not be removed for, at all events, a week. Vaginal Fistula. Of this there are many varieties : Vesico-vaginal, Urethro-vaginal, Vesico-uterine, and Eecto-vaginal, being the most common and impor- tant ; all the result, usually, of accident in parturition. By an unskilful use of instruments, the parts may be torn; more commonly by too long delay in the use of instruments the parts are subjected to prolonged and severe pressure by the child's head, and sloughing consequently ensues. Vesico-vaginal Fistula denotes an abnormal communication between the vagina and bladder. During parturition the parts suffer irrecoverable injury. Two or three days afterwards a slough separates ; if the urine have not been previously discharged, a gush follows ; and afterwards, a draining away of that fluid remains ; or, if there has been a laceration,