894 LIGATURE OF THE AXILLARY. Deligation of the Axillary AYas first proposed Tdj Pelletan in 1786, who, as well as Keato in 1800, made an abortive effort to carry his plan into execution. The operation was first performed by Chamberlaync in 1815. Modern sur- geons have almost agreed, that this vessel should not be made the sub- ject of operation, unless in the case of wound of the artery itself, or of traumatic aneurism, when the general principles of surgery are to be fulfilled by cutting down upon the wounded point, and placing a ligature above and below the aperture. Mr. Syme has, however, recently, with complete success, laid open spontaneous aneurismal swellings occupying this situation, and tied the axillary artery above and beloAV the points of communication with the sac. To effect this safely, compression of the subclavian on the first rib was made by the finger of an assistant, through an incision which divided the fascia of the neck, and thus pre- vented any movement on the part of the patient from interfering with the eflS.ciency of the compression. Again, in the case of aneurism high in the arm, encroaching so far upwards as to render deligation of the brachial or tliird stage of the axillary either unadvisable or impracti- cable, the upper part of the axillary may, no doubt, be secured; but it is an easier, more feasible, and altogether preferable operation, to tie the subclavian in its external third Aneurism of spontaneous origin below the axillary space is a rare occurrence ; and it may very fairly be questioned, whether the operation of laying open the sac in such a case would not be attended with less risk and difficulty than the ligature of either the axillary or subclavian. Like the subclavian, the axillary artery is surgically divided into three portions; an u]3per, middle, and loioer. And supposing that we have determined on deligation of the axillary, in preference to the sub- clavian—as, probably, will very seldom be the case—either the lower or the upper third will be selected, seeing that the middle is so covered and mixed up with other textures, as to be almost inaccessible—with safety. In the case of wounds, or in aneurism, where we propose to lay open the sac and tie the vessel within it, no regular directions can be given—further than that, as a joreliminary, compression of the subclavian must be arranged so as to completely control the flow through the vessel, and the incision must divide the pectoral muscle or muscles to such an extent as shall afford free access to the vessel. The ordinary or regular operations are said to be either suiJerior or inferior, according as the vessel is tied above or below the pectoralis minor mnscle. The superior operation is performed thus :—The patient having been placed recumbent, with an assistant ready to compress the subclavian in case of accident, an incision is made, about three inches in length, and of a semilunar form—with its convexity downAvards ; commencing about an inch from the sternal extremity of the clavicle, and extending towards the coracoid. Or a similar extent of wound may be made, with its con- vexity upwards, terminating at the anterior margin of the deltoid In the one case, the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major is at once cut across, in the deep dissection ; in the other, the intormusrular space is