58 ACONITE, ETC. stimulant, ten grains ajid more at each dose, repeated when required, is not mifrequontly indulged in. It remains to Le sliewn, however, whether such heroic measures are in any respects superior to the ordinary mode and amount of administration. Aconite is a powerful antiphlogistic. It tends to relieve by cuta- neous and other secretions. But its most important effect is to lower the heart's action and general circulation. In tliis respect, indeed, it is perhaps the most simple and yet the most powerful of sedatives. Large doses are anodyne, and antineuralgic ; hut they are unsafe, and requii-e great watclifulness ; and, antiphlogistically, they are unnecessary. Small doses—such as half a drop, or a quarter of a drop, of the strong tincture, in aqueous solution, repeated every hour, every half hour, or every two hours—are quite safe, and are truly antiphlogistic. Often, under their use, the pulse will be found to come down even rapidly; the other febrile symptoms at the same time giving way. Aconite, probably, has not the same powerful influence on the consti- tution of the blood and part affected, as antimony or mercury j but it may well take the place of either, in dealing with inflammatory fever, when structural change has not advanced, and when—as in common external affections—the texture involved is not important. Lately, the Veratrum viride, in doses of four drops of the tincture, has obtained much repute as an arterial sedative. Belladonna, too, is anodyne and antiphlogistic ; and, as such, may be given in small doses. As an opponent of erysipelas, it enjoys a con- siderable reputation. ColcMcum, also inducing a sedative effect on the circulation, and tending to cause increased exhalation from the mucous membrane of the bowels, as well as very marked increase of secretion from both the liver and the kidneys, is plainly qualified to prove highly available as an antiphlogistic. In full doses, continued, it is supposed to exert a specific effect on the part; freeing it from imjDending change of stnic- ture, as do mercury and antimony. Being further endowed with the property of eliminating urea from the system, by its agency on the kidneys, it is especially appropriate to inflammatory affections of a rheumatic origin and character. The wine of the seeds, cautiously com- menced, and steadily increased, is the favourite form of the remedy. Its administration must be stopped as soon as it occasions severe griping, with diarrhoea or dysenteric symptoms. Diuretics in general, by their evacuant effect, may be classed among the not unimportant antiphlogistics; especially their simplest forms ; nitrate of potass, bitartrate of potass, sweet spirits of nitre, acid and alkaline drinks, etc. They of course are unsuitable, when the secret- ing organ, the Iddney, happens to be the seat of the inflammatory dis- order ; for, by their use under such chcumstances, the paramount indica- tion of obtaining rest, actual or comparative, for the affected part, would be plainly contravened. Saline Medicines—the carbonates of potass and soda, nitrate of potass, sulphate of soda, tartrate of potass and soda, bitartrate of potass, etc.—are useful as cooling draughts, promoters of perspiration, diuretics, and adjuvants to secretion from the intestinal mucous membrane j and,