1248 PIIYMOSIS. tion of the preputial orifice; the difference being, that in the one case the contracted portion occupies its normal position in front of tlie glans • in the other it is reflected belijud the glans, and acts as a constriction there on the body of the penis, Phymosis may be congenital; an original malformation. In this case, if the contraction be great, the child is apt to suffer much. The urine escapes imperfectly; and, in consequence, chronic balanitis may ensue, or a calculous concre- tion may form, or the bladder may become irritable, and symptoms closely resembling those of stricture of the urethra may de- velope themselves. Should these dangers pass by, and an advanced age be reached by the patient, ulceration is apt to take place at the contracted part; and, very frequently, the ulcer assumes ultimately a malignant action, and extends so as to involve the glans and body of the penis. It is important, therefore—on many accounts—to remove this source of evil as early as possible. Acquired phymosis may be acute or chronic. The former is the result of an active inflammatory process ; following external injury; or sympathetic with gonorrhoea, balanitis, or sores situated within the prepuce. The areolar tissue becomes infiltrated with serum ; the swelling, thus caused, prevents the glans from being uncovered in the usual way; and discharge, accumulating, aggravates the disorder. The main treat- ment is by rest, fomentation, poultice, and general antiphlogistics; and, at the same time, by means of injections frequently repeated, accumulation and decomposition of the discharge are to be prevented Under this management, swelling may more or less rapidly disappear, and the normal state be regained. Failing this, and if there be urgency for the exposure of sores—which may be extending rapidly, and may require activity in direct applications—incision is necessary. It may be that the urgency is such as to demand the knife very early in the case, while the sores are yet fuUy impregnated with virus; and then there is risk of the disease being much extended, by contamination of the recently made wound. Such risk may be in a great measure obviated, however, by applying first the saturated solution of the perchloride of iron to check the bleeding, and then an active escharotic immediately afterwards to the sore, so as to annihilate both the local poison and the poisoned part In general, the operation is to be delayed, until the sores are of such a date as to render impregnation of the wound at least improbable—the reparative stage having been reached, when discharge probably ceases to be virulent. If any doubt should exist as to the presence of a chancre of the soft kind, occupying some part of the interior of the prepuce, inoculation by the lancet, of a single drop of the pus on any part of the surface, will remove all uncertainty. The chronic form of acquired phymosis may result from gradual in- crease of original malformation, or from cicatrization of ulcer or wound. Fig. 347. Pliymosis.