733 AFFECTIONS OF THE NERVES OF THE ORBIT. Affections of the Nei-ves of the Orhit. The sensibility and nutrition of the eyeball, and its appendages, are dependent upon the integrity of the fifth nerve. Hence we have orbital and ocular neuralgia due to some perversion of its function ; and opacity and ulceration of the cornea are produced by any cause which completely interrupts its function. "We have the orbit and its contents also affected, so far as movement is concerned, by the normal or abnormal conditions of the portio dura of the seventh, and more importantly by the condition of the trunk of the third, fourth, and sixth nerves, or of their centres of origin. When the eyelids on one side cannot be closed, and the lower lid hangs flaccid, this is due, if no mechanical obstacle to closure is present, to paralysis either of the trunk of the po7'tio dura, or of its branch to the orbicularis palpebrarum. If not occasioned by injury, its most common cause is exposure to cold, either acting directly or reflexly through the medium of the fifth nerve. Blistering of the cheek, temple, and forehead, with the use of anti-rheumatic remedies, ^vill usually be found of most service. Paralysis of the third nerve is indicated by a dropping of the upper eyelid, permanent eversion of the globe (Luscitas), inability to move the eye upwards or downwards, dilatation of the pupil with indistinct vision, and diplopia when looking straight forward, or to the side opposite to that to which the affected eye is turned, with a slight divergence from the perpendicular—the image seen by the affected eye being above that seen by the sound one. Paralysis of the sia^h nerve produces loss of power of the external rectus; the globe is permanently inverted, and while it executes every other movement, it cannot be everted. There is diplopia when looking t objects towards the side affected. Paralysis of the fourth nerve is a rare affection. The superior oblique uscle is then rendered powerless, and the patient complains of seeing 1 perpendicular straight lines, such as the line of pavement, become ouble ; the distorted image forming an acute angle with the true one, and e lines of any geometric figui'e containing right angles becoming double, *th the second image distorted, so that the lines lose their parallelism. When one neiTe after another becomes affected, the disease is in probability due to some deep-seated growth—either intra-cranial or rbital. When cerebral symptoms are present at the same time, the 'agnosis is simplified. When the globe protrudes, the existence of an rbital tumour connected with the fundus of the orbit is rendered almost rtain. When the affection is limited to one nerve, and comes on sud- enly in an elderly patient, after some sudden effort, an apoplectic affec- on of the origin of the nerve is indicated. The great majority of these " es, however, occur in syphilitic or rheumatic patients, and aifect only ne nerve at a time. While, then, the prognosis in the former cases hould always be studiously guarded, in the latter (syphilitic and rheu- atic), especially in the syphilitic, if coming under treatment at an early enod after the appearance of the original affection—it should always be opeful; as under the administration of mercurials, followed by the iodide