64 COUNTER-IRRITATION. lest it should over-stimulato tlae entire textiu-e, and induce inflammatory reaccession. It is applied by means of plaster, splints, special compresses, or simple bandaging. Counter-irritation, likewise, is seldom to be employed until all acute disease bas fully subsided. During advance of the inflammatory pro- cess, as yet unbroken by suitable means, the induction of a new one by a new stimulus, even at some distance, may not only fail to afibrd re- lief, but also aggravate both the local and general disorder. The ques- tion of time, therefore, is an important consideration. Counter-irritation is the opponent of chronic rather than of acute disease ; and is also useful in getting rid of the results of either. Site, too, is important. Applied to the part itself, direct irritation and acute disease are induced therein ; an occurrence invariably untoward, unless when we Avish for either de- struction or thorough change of structure. And a somewhat similar result is likely to ensue, if the application be made in the too immediate vicinity of the part afiected. To be beneficial, and even safe, the inflam- matory process artificially induced must be at some distance from the site of the original disorder ; and yet not too far removed, otherAvise the reflex stimulation it is intended to produce on the vital structures and vessels of the inflamed part may fail to operate sufficiently. There is no more valuable remedial agent than counter-irritation ; none more fre- quently employed, with the best results ; but it must be rightly placed and timed; not too soon, not too near, nor yet too far away. Exception must here be made in favour of counter-irritants of the gentlest and simplest kind—the rubefacient. They are often used early, with the best advantage. A warm poultice, or fomentation, or even a sinapism, often afi"ords good relief at the very outset of mild inflammatory alfections of the mucous surfaces—in the throat, for example—before its structure has undergone any great modification, Eemembering what was formerly stated in regard to metastasis, we can readily understand the mode whereby coimter-irritation acts benefi- cially on an inflaming part. Marked determination of blood is produced to the skin, which, comparatively unimportant as a texture, has its vital condition so modified by the irritant as to undergo a slight and manage- able amount of the inflammatory process ; and commensiu'ately we find the deep part, comparatively important, relieved more or less efi"ectually from what endangered both texture and function. The relief is analogous to that effected by direct stimulation of the motor centi'es of the nervi vasorum, whereby the contraction of their muscular fibre is induced, and the quantity of blood sent to the inflaming part greatly diminished; be- sides an effect through the nervous system is produced on the nutrition of the cell structures of the part, whereby cell-proliferation is checked. Counter-irritation may be varied in grade, form, and mode of appli- cation. 1. Rubefacients constitute the slightest class ; and are simple counter-irritants. Tliey induce a slight modification of the nutrition of a large extent of external surface, and are thereby of use to relieve a somewhat similar condition elsewhere; they so modify textural nutrition as to bring blood to the surface and retain it there, but do not induce further change of structure tlian increased collection of serosity in the tissues. Moderate heat, mustard, and various stimulating embrocations.