TREATMENT OF SHOCK. 463 about to undergo an operation, on account of mechanical injury done to a comparatively unimportant part, and plainly labouring under depres- sion of the general vital powers—shivering, pale, cold, breathing rapidly, with an alarmed expression, and almost pulseless. If this state is but of mental origin, the preparations for operation may be continued ; a few- words of kindness and comfort, Avith perhaps a mouthful of wine and water, will probably suffice to establish almost instant reaction. "Whereas, if the cause be altogether unconnected with mental impression, the patient may be at once removed from the operating table to bed; inas- much as some considerable time must necessarily elapse, ere the system can have recovered itself so far as to possess a tolerance of operation. The one form of shock is in its nature very transient, the other is to a greater or less extent enduring. There are many cases in which both forms of shock are more or less combined; as can be readily imagined. For example, a man may be mortally wounded by an unexpected and unseen foe; the shock of the injury will be great, although entirely corporeal in its origin. A second may receive only a scratch, while he expected nothing but instant death ; the shock will probably be serious, and may indeed amount to actual syncope ; yet it is purely mental. A third may sustain a serions injury, from an assailant both seen and feared; and the shock will be intense ; mental and corporeal impression both contributing towards the lowering result. In such cases as the last, it is practically useful to ascertain if possible—by inquiry into the history of the accident, and as to the natural temperament of the patient, as well as by carefully noting the existing symptoms—in what proportions the combination has probably occurred. Treatment of Shock.—In the mental form, as already stated, reassur- ance and a little time are sufficient to recover the patient; the applica- tion of heat, with some cordial internally, hastening the event, if necessary. In the corporeal, two errors—in their nature very much opposed— requhe to be guarded against; premature bleeding, and premature stimu- lation. A patient having received a fall, is probably found unconscious and incapable of motion ; and the unwary practitioner may mistake such a state for the coma induced by extravasation. A vision of apoplexy, with its wonted remedy of venesection, passes on the instant through his mind ; his lancet, as it were mechanically, leaves its case, and reaches a vem m the bend of the arm, or the jugular vein, or the temporal artery. ■No blood may follow the incision ; and it is well; for loss of blood—a most powerful agent of depression—is not likely to prove beneficial when depression is already great and dangerous. By and bye, reaction begins to be established; the pulse may be felt and counted, the skin becomes warm, and signs of returning consciousness appear ; at this stage, bleed- ing IS not unfrequently practised; and still it is premature. Nature now however, is in a state of self-defence ; and but little of the precious nuia escapes ere syncope again occurs, arresting the flow—a protest and a saieguard against the malapraxis. The time for bleeding is neither esfp-hV r?'"''''' "^""""^ ^'^^^y progress; but after it has been aonshecl, and when it threatens to advance to an inflammatory excess, gain, let us suppose that the case is not one of simple concussion,