804 ENLARGED TONSILS. on opening tlio abscess of tlie tonsil behind the angle of the jaw, the finger passed readily from the external incision into the pliarynx. ' For some days milk and other aliments escaped by the fistulous aperture tlms established; but as the opening gradually contracted this escape ceased, and the parts cicatrized soundly and quickly. Ulcers of the Tonsils. The tonsils are liable to ulceration from ordinary causes; acute in character, from exposure to cold or wet, from the irritation of decayed teeth, or from tonsiUitis excited by the " cutting" of the last grinders. Treatment is by touching tlie part occasionally with nitrate of silver, after removal or mitigation of the cause—extraction of the decayed teeth, or scarification of the tense gum over the molars. Ulcers of the tonsils are, however, more usually chronic, and are then of constitutional origin; connected usually with syphilitic taint of sys- tem j sometimes of secondary, sometimes of tertiary accession; the local characters of the sore varying according to circumstances—simple, Aveak, indolent, irritable, inflamed, sloughing, or phagedsenic. Treatment, in such cases, is mainly constitutional; consisting in the administration of alteratives, mercurials, iodine and its compounds, and arsenic, with lime-water and bitter infusions. To the part, nitrate of silver, or sul- phate of copper, in the slighter or more superficial forms, wiU usually sufiice ; while nitric acid will be needed.in the deeper and more destruc- tive afiections. Slougliing of the Tonsil. Sloughing sometimes follows the acute tonsilKtis, which forms a part of the scarlatinous, the putrid, and the diphtheritic forms of sore throat. When this stage of any of these forms of disease has been attained, Httle can be done either locally or constitutionally for the patient. Chloiine water as a lotion, Condy's fluid, diluted, as a gargle—^with iron, stimu- lants, ojDiates, and beef-tea, are alone likely to prove advantageous. In the earlier stage of acute tension, which usually precedes such sloughing, it has been proposed to make several incisions through each gland with the view of relieving the tension, wliich a^jparently, to some extent, deter- mines the slougliing. A similar treatment by incision has also been re- commended for the external lymphatic engorgement, which usually accom- panies the latter stages of these malignant forms of tonsillitis.* Hypertrophy of the Tonsils. In adolescents of weak habit, cloronic enlargement of the tonsils is ? very apt to occur, connected with a minor inflammatory afiection of tlie r fauces; the swoln part partially and slowly subsiding between the in- - flammatory attacks, which are of frequent occurrence and induced by r slight causes. In such cases it is not uncommon for the tonsils to be- come permanently enlarged, by simple hypertrophy. Both are, m general, affected ; projecting, as fleshy eminences, into the fauces ; interfering * Geo. Hamilton on Scarlatina, Eclin. Med. Jowrunl, 1S33.