622 FEACTURE OF THE BASE OF THE SKULL. injuries the fissure implicates more than one fossa, for in most sfirioas lalls upon the vertex it must be obvious tliat more than one H&nm^ni must be aflTected. ^ i In cases of fracture of the base, the extravasation is not always slight J it may be great, one or more of the large venous sinuses having h-, torn ; then the symptoms are from the first most grave, and cannot ], end fatally and soon. The circumstances which lead to a suspicion of fracture at the bas< of the skull are : The kind of injury inflicted, such as already describf- symptoms of compression, early and severe ; escape of blood from t ears, nose, mouth; ecchymosis the eyelids and ocular conjuncti^■; —the orbital plates having be- broken too, and blood infiltrati. forwards into the loose areoi tissue—and behind the masto process, or in the temporal region amaurosis and paralysis of the fac and discharge of a watery flui from the ear, throat, or nostril sometimes in considerable abuiii ance. The last symptom—oft' termed " welling of the ear " win it comes from the meatus auditor/' ■—is not immediate, but occurs afi' some days have elapsed. By son it is considered to denote escay of serous fluid from the sac of tl arachnoid ; others, contending th the phenomenon has been know to occur when certainly that sac w not opened into, believe that the fluid is but the serum of extravasat^ blood, trickling through the fissure ; while others are inclined to behe' that in many cases the fluid is either from the fractured surface of boi or is the Liquor Cotunii, or merely a hypersecretion from the cavity the tympanum; by all it is held as a sign of most untoward import Bleeding from the nose, mouth, or ear, following on severe injmy of t head, is always suspicious; more especially if the patient be found in * Laugier, Compte Rendu de I'Acad. de Scien. 1839, p. 240, Archives General Aout, 1846 ; also, Brit, and For. Med. Chir. Eev. April 1850, p. 342 j Eankin Eetrospect, vol. ii. p. 100 ; Lancet, No. 1658, p. 24.—Hilton. Stalpartius van der Wiel, Observ. varior. cent prior obs. xv.; O'Halloran, Injui of the Head, p. 120 ; Colle's Lectures, by M'Coy, vol. i. p. 135 ; Alber's Ga^c Medical 1840, p. 811 ; August Berard and Nelaton, Compend de Chir. de Paris, toin p. 642 ; Robert Chassaignse, Mem. de la Soc. de Chir. de Pai-is, torn. i. p. 56-: p. 542; also Ghatin, p. 568. Fig. 235. Fissure at the base of the skull, involving the occipital and splun bones. The patient fell from a ladder on the vertex, and lay comatose for some d before death. Extensive extravasation was found over the cerebellum and mi lobes of the brain.—LisxoN. FiR. 235.