FRACTUKE OF THE BASE OF THE SKULL. - Archiv. Gen. de Med., 4e ser., torn. vi. p. 180. 021 riu> fissure may either extend through previously compact bone ; or be 1 Idnd of diastasis—separation of the sphenoid from the temporal bones, example, at the original points of union. As already stated, it is ,,>rally accompanied with laceration of the dura mater, and internal iiiorrhago ; and consequently is invariably attended with the greatest hw^er to life. The important parts of the brain implicated are almost . rtain to be compromised in function, sooner or later ; either almost mmediately by laceration and extravasation ; or by inflammatory change > more remote period. The injury may be occasioned in various ways. The head may be •rushed laterally, or in an antero-posterior direction; as by the wheel of \ elucle passing over it, or by being jammed between a wheel and a \ all or post, or between a fixed surface and machinery in motion. Or, \ Idle the body is at rest, a severe blow is received on the vertex ; and he strain of the shock, communicated through the temporal bones, pro- luces a splitting of these, or tears open the connections with the sphe- miil* Or the body, falling, alights on the vertex ; and the spinal ihiran, carying both the weight and momentum of the body, is driven \-n upon the cranial base—the basilar process being probably broken ..nmgh.t Or, falling from a height, the patient alights on his breech, u Ms heels, or on his knees ; and, again, a concussion sufficient for dis- uption may be so communicated to the cranial base. In such cases, ijvrever, the site of fracture and the line of fissure vary greatly. Some- iiues we find the petrous portion of one or both temporal bones alone uffering; sometimes the fracture is oblique in its direction, involving ue temporal and the opposite wing of the sphenoid, and coursing through he body of the sphenoid or the basilar process of the occipital. Accor- ing to the observations and experiments of Dr. Aran,| the situation of lie line of fracture of the base, when the force is applied to the vertex, ■ determined by the part which first sustains the impetus of the fall !' blow. "When the force acted upon the anterior part of the vertex, fissure of the base was always, according to that authority, fovmd in anterior fossa; when upon the middle of the vertex, in the middle a; when upon the posterior, in the posterior fossa ; and in all these 'ances the fracture of the base was accompanied by a corresponding lire of the vault. From this fissuring of the vault, at the seat of the Ucation of the force, the injury of the base is presumed to result; "1 it need be no objection to this explanation, that in many of those * " If a force be applied to tlie vertex, the superior border of the parietal bones displacement downwards, inasmuch aa their inferior borders cannot be thrown "• ards in consequence of their being supported laterally by the overlapping of the ■mous portions of the temporal bones ; while the temporal bones, as M. Malgaigne pointed out, are themselves supported by the zygoma, which constitutes on each a true buttress, sustained by the superior maxillary bone. A shock, then, ap- 1 to the vertex, is directly transmitted to the temporal bone, and propagated "gh its petrous portions to the posterior part of the body of the sphenoid bone, parts which most fractures of the base of the cranium traverse."—Brit, and For. Rev. No. 29, p. 174. t Sir B. Brodie, Med. Chirurg. Trans, xiv. p. 329 ; Hilton, Lectures on the Cra-