875 DirilTHERIA. The direct application of nitrate of silver, in strong solution, to tlie affected part, has been advocated by Green of New York and otliers, as productive of benefit in the early stage of this disease. By means of a powerful spatuhx, the tongue is depressed and brought forwards ; a bent piece of whalebone, tipped with sponge, and soaked in the solution (from two to four scruples of the salt to the ounce of distilled water) is passed behind the epiglottis, and then suddenly forced down upon the top of the larynx. Dr. Hamilton of Falkirk has recently recommended for tliis purpose a piece of small-bore caoutchouc tube, about a foot long, open at both ends, and attached to the curved whalebone larynx probang, so as to follow its curve, and project beyond it. This is dipped into the caustic .•solution, the proximal extremity of the tube is then compressed by the right forefinger against the whalebone handle, and after a good view of the epiglottis has been obtained, the distal point of the india-rubber tube is directed immediately over its apex; the patient, in obedience to the surgeon's command, then attempts to take a deep breath, the controlling pressure on the tube is removed, and the solution, escaping suddenly, takes the glottis by surprise, and passes into the trachea. Unfortunately, in croup, the plan of treatment by the application of nitrate of silver has not been found satisfactory ; the small size of the larynx and trachea rendering a very slight cause of obstruction amply sufficient to induce asphyxia. d. Diphtheria, or Cynanche memhranacea, usually commences, as we have already seen, in the fauces—generally on one or both tonsils—and, extending to the pharynx, may also ajffect the larynx. The disease is apparently a mere local manifestation of a constitutional condition due to septic influences, generally traceable to foul drainage. The implication of the lar}Tix is rarely met with in the early stage of the disease; more usually when it is further advanced. In the early stage, if laryngeal dyspnoea manifests itself, tracheotomy may be had recourse to with as good a prospect as in croup. In the later stage, the advanced period of the affection implying weakness of system, and therefore feeble powers of bearing up under operative treatment, the prognosis becomes unfavour- able ; but, further, the paralysis consequent on diphtheria, which we so commonly observe affecting the muscles of the palate, the ciliary muscle of the eyeball, and even the muscles of the limbs, sometimes implicates those of the glottis as well, rendering them incaj^able of resisting the entrance of foreign bodies into the larynx. A fatal result from this cause has more than once been observed to carry off a patient, on whom an apparently satisfactory tracheotomy had been performed, the fluid passing the glottis and tracheotomy tube, and not being expelled through the latter in sufficient quantity to prevent suffocation. In such circumstances a feeding tube should be passed, and through it all nutriment should be conveyed to the stomach till the glottis resumes its function, e. Laryngitis Purulenta*—Such a result is of comparatively rare occur - rence ; and fortunately also, when it does occur, the affection is usually nailed chancres, all hard swellings on the hreast dignified by the appellation of ^'■mhx}H, every siisi)icions fungus called fungus heniatodes—so may all acute affections "I the larynx U; arrnnged und(!r the general denomination of croup. * London Medical Gazette, Januaiy 12, 1833.