1222 URINARY FISTULA. maintains a morbid degree of excitement, and the obstruction which it occasions forces the urine into the abnormal cliannel. The abscess conse- quently does not close; but partially contracting, degenerates into the condition of fistula. There may be but one fistula, or several; in the perineum, or traversing the scrotum, or anterior to the scrotum, or on the nates. Sometimes abscess burrows beneath the fascia of the penis, and opens near the glans; sometimes the - opening is on the dorsum oi the penis. Also, one abscess, having more tlian one external outlet, may lead to the establisliment of more than one fistula; or, each fistulous opening may be connected with a separate abscess. Sometimes the fistula opens into the rectum, sometimes upon the inner side of the thigh. 1 have seen two openings, through which the greater part of the urine issued, situated, one in the groin, the other in the middle of the thigh In some cases, when the communication with the urinai'y canal has existed close to the prostate, more usually, however, with the urethra in front of the triangular ligament, the opening externally forms in the perineum, which becomes reddened, callous, and perforated with aper- tures, and studded with papillary elevations, from which urine and dis- charge constantly distil. The discharge is thin and glecty; often copious, often containing seminal fluid. Sometimes a constant dribbling of urine exists; in other cases, urine escapes only during an expiilsive effort. The surrounding parts are tender and excoriated; the patient is in a constant state of discomfort, and possesses an urinoiLs, or a peculiar " mousey smell," which is pathognomonic; very frequently the general health suffers seriously. Treatment is simple ; directed to the stricture, not to the fistula—at least in the first instance. The stricture having been thoroughly dilated, the mine comes again by the normal channel; the fistula contracts and dries ; and, in many cases, if wholly closes, without any direct treatment having been received. Should contraction prove tedious and incomplete, the hot wire may be used ; applied not to the mere orifice, but deep iu the track—lest premature closure of the external part might take place; not repeated frequently, but at long intervals—it being our object to obtain the benefit of the healing process which follows remotely on the burn, not the destructive and inflammatory effects which are its primary result. The galvanic cautery has also been satisfactorily employed for this purpose. If sinuses communicate with fistu]?e, it will probably be necessary to lay them open with the bistoury. In cases long neglected, in which the whole urine has for years been passing by the perineum, the constricted portion of the xu'ethra anterior to the opening contracts greatly, and may be almost completely obliterated. Dilat-ation is then effected with great difficulty; and recourse to the method by incision will probably be expedient, without subjecting the patient to the delay involved by the use of less eflicient means. Sometimes the abscess opens, not in the perineum, but into the rectum ; and fistula forms in the bowel. Urine passes per anum ; and air, or even fteces, may escape by the urethra. Treatment is the same as for the more common varieties; the speculum ani being used to pro- tect tlie bowel, when it is necessary to employ the cautery. "When the fistulous trade is due to prostatic abscess, and communicates through the