TREATMENT OF STRICTURE. 12U who have lived freely and been abroad. They benefit greatly by the use of quinine. Hitherto, we have been speaking only of the ordinary cases which require the ordinary application of instruments, in expectation of the ordinary result—disappearance of the redundant formation, by absorption ; this absorption being excited, simply and directly, by pressure. We now come to another class of cases, requiring another effect of the instru- ment—the second which we formerly noticed; excitement of irritation, which in passing away may carry with it not only its own product, but also that of former times. These are tight and unyielding strictures, of considerable extent and long duration. A very small in- strument may be insinuated into or through them; but no progress is made ; on each introduction, there is the same difficulty to be overcome. In such cases, the treatment requires a modification; a higher result is to be obtained from the instrument's use. A firm silver catheter is care- fully passed through the stricture, and for this purpose must be lodged in the bladder ; it is there retained by tapes, which are appended to the rings of the instrument, and secured on the level of the perineum to tapes which encircle the upper part of the thigh, and which are attached to a bandage roujid the waist. The orifice of the instrument is shut, either by a stop-cock, or by a plug of wood or cork—which may be removed, from time to time, for evacuation of the urine. At first the catheter is felt tightly fixed, while the urine escapes only by its chaimel; after some time, the embrace is found to become less close, while a puriform discharge comes from the urethra; and the urine frequently, in twenty- four hours, flows freely by the side of the instrument, which will noAv be found loose and movable. It is then withdrawn, and a catheter of comparatively large dimensions may be passed in its stead. This is per- mitted to remain for other twenty-four hours, and may be replaced by a still larger instrument; so that, in two days, the stricture which formerly admitted with great difficulty a No. 1 catheter, will frequently be found so softened and opened up, as to admit a No. 6 with facility; after which the ordinary instrumentation is preceded with, as in other cases. This method of treatment, it is obvious, requires great care ; there being a risk of ulceration of the bladder from the constant pressure of the point of a small instrument against its fundus, as well as ot untoward constitutional disturbance. And the case must be watched accordingly. The risk from pressure of the point against the fundus of the bladder may be somewhat provided against by the use of an instru- ment of sharp curve and short beak. In some patients, it may be safely retained for twenty-four, thirty-six, or forty-eight hours ; in others, that time must be greatly abridged. Opiates are of service, in allaying the pain and irritation. And if, by their use, all untoward spnptoms are averted, we need not regulate the catheter's stay by any fixed limit of hoiirs ; but may regard its thorough loosening as the fij-st sign of the propriety of its removal. It is seldom, however, that a retention of more than forty-eight hours is required. And, in that sliort space of time, if the case proceed favourably, we may expect immensely more progress than under the ordinary system of management. This method is most frequently resorted to in cases where retention complicates