859 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE WINDPIPE. disturbance. If impaction have taken place in the rima, the symptoms are those of rapid asphyxia ; the patient suddenly exhibiting the greatest distress, becoming livid and swoln in the countenance, staring with bursting eyeballs, gasping anxiously, struggling for breath, and speedily becoming insensible. When the foreign body has passed witliin the rima, the symptoms vary according to the site and nature of the lodgment; but, in all cases, they evince two leading characteristics—denoting ob- struction to respiration, and irritation produced in the part with, which the substance is in contact. If it be loose in the windpipe, or lodged in the larynx or upper part of the trachea, the following are the ordinary symptoms. A violent fit of suffocative cough immediately succeeds the entrance of the foreign body—seeming to cease, it is probable, only on Nature having been whoUy exhausted. And, at short intervals, such paroxysms are renewed; more particularly if any new movement of the foreign body have occurred. Inspiration is loud, strained, and of a harsh, croupy, or sawing sound. The voice is changed. Pain is complained of ia the part. A more or less copious expectoration of mucus takes place, and sometimes of blood. The countenance is suffused, and expres- sive of great anxiety—an expression almost pathognomonic, especially in the young. And the neck is stretched, with the head elevated and thrown back, in the position of orthopnoea. Often all the auxiliary muscles of respiration are found in full play. It is right to remember, however, that in some cases—^more especially when a considerable period has elapsed since the occurrence of the accident—the intervals between the paroxysms may be passed in comparative quiet, with an almost total absence of symptoms at that time. When impaction has taken place in a bronchus, a characteristic sign is indicated by auscultation—suppres- sion of respiratory sound on that side, with puerile respiration in the opposite organ. The respiratory movements of the parietes of the chest, too, are diminished or arrested in the obstructed part. Or a still more plain indication may be afforded, if the substance happen to be of musi- cal capability, however rude, and so situated that the air passing by it in respiration may evoke its powers of sound. Eough substances soon occa- sion purulent discharge, which possesses great and characteristic foetor. Sometimes the foreign body, when smooth and loose, may be felt dis- tinctly moving up and down the trachea, and impinging against the upper part of the larynx, during an effort of convulsive coughing. The affection with which this accident is most apt to be confounded, is rapid obstruction of the upper part of the windpipe by inflammatory change. But the history of the two cases must necessarily be very different; urgent symptoms being in the one case immediate, unaccom- panied with febrile excitement of the system, and often most intense at first; while in the other they are more or less gradual in their accession, of a crescent character, and invariably attended with inflam- matory fever. Also, in the accident, expiration is difficult, while in- spiration is comparatively easy; whereas, in the disease, the precisely opposite condition obtains. That in all cases there is a necessity for the speedy adoption of mea- sures calculated to effect removal of the foreign body, is tolerably plain. Otherwise, the risks to life wHl be neither few nor slight. 1. Sudden