650 AFFECTIONS OF THE EYELIDS. hope of cure is by extirjiation of the whole orbital contents. And tliis is expedient only when tlie disease is recent, apparently limited to the soft parts, and capable of entire removal. 4. Inflammatory and syphilitic affections of the bone, periosteum, or soft textures of the orbit, of idiopathic origin, or accompanying tlie tertiary stage of syphilis, closely simulate the last form of tumour, and may be easily mistaken for it. The simply inflammatory must always be difficult of discrimination; and the diagnosis only becomes certain by the observation of the progress of the case, and the effect of treatment. When of syphilitic origin, the presence of other affections of a like kind, situated on the cranium or elsewhere, and the general history of the case, will afford the only sure means of arriving at certainty in diagnosis. Blisters to the temple, iodide of potassium, and sometimes even mer- curials, internally, with the use of glycerine in a diluted form, to protect the protruding globe, should such a complication, be present—will con- stitute the appropriate treatment. II. Apfections op the Eyelids. Injuries. Ecchymosis is of frequent occurrence in the eyelids; the areolar tissue being lax and delicate. Ordinarily it is the result of a bruise or blow; but it may follow a wound, more especially if oblique or sub- integumental; and the application of leeches to the lids is almost certain to produce it, to a greater or less extent. It is important as a deformity. A patient, having received an injury likely to be followed by ecchymosis, is anxious that this should be prevented ; and, the escape of blood having occurred, he is equally anxious that the discoloration should be removed. Many remedies are popularly in vogue for both of these ends. For the former, the continuous application of cold by wetted lint, with quietude and abstraction of all stimuli, is both suitable and easily obtained: if begun immediately on receipt of the injury, and properly maintained, the natural hemostatics will be much favoured, and very probably little or no blood will escape from the torn vessels. Ecchymosis having occurred, . the nature of the application must vary according to the presence or not 1 of the inflammatory process in the part; in the one case, fomentation is i employed, subjugation of the morbid process being the paramount iudi- • cation; in the other, a solution of the muriate of ammonia, or of tincture • of arnica, or a poultice of black bryony root, is appHed, in order to hasten i removal of the extravasated blood by absorption. Wounds of the eyelids, if contused, are treated by the water-dressing. \ If incised, after bleeding has ceased, approximation is effected by fine i sutures ; other retentive means being plainly inapplicable to this locality. . Great care should be taken to restore the normal relative position Avith i accuracy, lest deformity ensue. In the case of burns, much precaution is required during the process a of healing; lest by contraction ectropion supervene. And the careftil !