I G40 ERYSIPELAS OF THE SCALP. stasis is overwhelming. Even the direct application of nitrate of silver l> the erysipelatous part is not advisable ; for a similar reason. In mau v cases the simple dusting of violet powder over the surface, so as to pi^ vide a protective layer—or the application of glycerine to the red ai. tender skin—will be found more pleasant to the patient, and quite ; efficacious as any more potent local measures. Punctures by means oi the lancet are more painful than beneficial, and though at one time mu';li employed in such cii'cumstances, may very reasonably be omitted in a] simple cases. Especial regard must be had to the interior of the head both during the progress of the disease, and for some days after i apparent decline. Throughout the treatment the head is kept higli the patient being almost in a sitting posture. The chalybeate treatment is not contra-indicated; but must be con ducted with special regard to the risk of cerebral disorder; and as in su* cases the liver and kidneys are usually either singly or together imp]. Gated in the disordered state of the system, saline purgatives, wit blue pill, antimonials, and acetate of potash, may with great advauta; be combined with the employment of the salt-s of iron. If the phlegmonous form declare itself in the scalp, and dangeroi infiltration have already begun, we cannot too soon make the requisii incisions in those parts which plainly demand them. The knife nee not pass beyond the sub-integumental adipose tissue, if the disease ha as yet, gone no deeper ; but if infiltration be already subtendinous, tl knife must pierce tendon too ; otherwise the invariably aggravating to sion cannot be relieved ; pain will increase greatly, and the inflanimato. fever will rise higher; matter will burrow rapidly over the pericraniui and probably beneath it also ; and the disease will extend widely—^pe haps involving the cranial contents, in at least a minor form. Timeo incision will usually check the further progress of the disease, and pi vent the extensive sloughing which would otherwise of necessity occi Should the affection, however, have extended far and wide, then nun: rous limited incisions should be preferred to one large cut, and th( should not be confined merely to the patts where suppuration beneath bagging scalp already exists, but be placed also in the tumid and braw parts around, where the preliminary inflammatory process is yet or: extending. "When burrowing of matter has taken place beneath the tendinc i expansion, it is not necessary to lay the track open throughout its wh i extent; but only, by the formation of a dependent opening—with a si-1 able counter-opening, if need be—to prevent purulent accumulation, to afford the parts an opportunity of effecting reunion by granulati To assist in this indication, iiniform support by bandaging is very usei after the acute stage has passed by. When the scalp has been undermined by pus, even extensively; does not follow that it must necessarily slough, in any part of the uno mined portion. Its vascular supply is not so dependent on the s: jacent areolar tissue as is that of ordinary integument; the course of! ramifications of the occipital and temporal arteries being rather cutane than subcutaneous ; and the isolated skin—beariiig its own vessel' consequently retaining its supply of blood but little impaired.