1223 LACEEATION OF THE URETHRA. prostate Avith the rectum and bladder, the results of treatment are ahnost certain to prove unsatisfactory, especially when the disease occurs in a scrofulous patient. A median lithotomy incision, with section of the prostate, and the introduction of a tuhe, retained for some days, seems to afford greater likelihood of affording a complete restoration of the parts to a healthy condition than any less decided measure. When disease of the vesicuhc, however, co-exists, and peritoneal symptoms have from time to time threatened to terminate in peritonitis, the less interference of an operative kind, the better for the patient. Laceration of the UretJira. This, as has been already said, may be produced by a blow, a kick, or a fall. In some cases it accompanies fracture of the pelvis ; in others, where the pelvic bones have not given way, they seem to have yielded, so that the triangular ligament appears to be the active agent in lacerat- ing the urethra. The lesion in the last-mentioned case usually occurs at the membranous portion of the canal; in the others, at the point directly acted upon by the agent causing the tear. Pain, escape of blood from the urethra, and an inability to micturite, with swelHng in tlie perineum, occasioned by extravasation of blood, usually characterize the injury. It should be a rule, in all such cases, to make sure of the condition of the urethra when called to see the patient j at once passing a catheter, drawing off the urine, and thus avoiding all risk of extra- vasation. If the catheter is easily passed, it may be withdrawn, and passed again from time to time as required; but if it is with difficulty introduced, or the patient lives at some distance, it should be retained for a day or two. If a catheter cannot be passed, incision upon a grooved staff passed down as far as possible, and maintained in the middle line of the perineum, must be had recourse to, as abeady explained; the proximal end of the ui-ethra is then sought for, and a catheter carried into the bladder from the perineal wound. But extravasation of urine is not the only risk that demands our regard. On opening the perineum, a large coagulum will often be found surrounding the urethra, and dis- tending the deep fascia; on clearing this away, very copious hemorrhage sometimes ensues, proceeding, in most cases, from the artery of the bulb, which should be secured; the incision being extended to a sufficient degree to admit of this being satisfactorily effected. Where a catheter has been introduced without having recourse to incision, the risk of suppuration ensuing is great; due both to the presence of some extravasated blood, and also to the escape of a little urine by the side of the catheter finding its way into the laceration. The abscess so formed, having been opened, usually degenerates into perineal fistula. Even if this does not occur, the portion of the canal at the site of injury, whether partially or com- pletely lacerated, will usually, in healing, undergo contraction ; unless, by the employment of bougies, this disposition to the formation of strictiu-e is frustrated. Leeching, fomentation, rest, and antiphlogistic regimen, are therefore very essential after the injury. Neglect a severe kick or blow of the perineum, and stricture, abscess, and fistula, are almost sure to follow.