BURNS AND SCALDS. 518 may either suppurate, or disappear by desiccation. Tlie lieat may have been applied eitlier in the fluid, or in the .solid form. In the latter case, it is not uncommon for the cuticle to adhere to the heated substance; then no vesication forms, but, instead, a raw surface is left of exceeding tenderness, which speedily inflames and suppurates, and probably is extended by acute and painful ulceration. This circumstance, occurring accidentally, well illustrates the importance of retaining the cuticle uu- removed, and, after evacuating the serum, preserving it as little disturbi as possible, in those cases which are under treatment with vesications already formed. III. By a greater application of heat, in the solid form,i or by flame, the external part of the cutis vera is cauterized ; killed imme- diately, or almost so ; and converted into an insensible slough, of a darken or lighter colour according to the rapidity with which it has been made to^ part with its vitality. Though the surface be insensible when lightly touched, yet acute pain is elicited by pressure. If the part have died instantly, there is no change in its character ; it is at once an eschar, and remains so, until detached. But when its death has been subsequent to the injury, and a gradual although still a rapid process, dark vesications may form, as in ordinary gangrene. After separation of the slough, the pai which had almost ceased shortly after infliction of the injury, is renewed, a very intense character'-j in consequence of the sensitive cutis, which h been but half destroyed, now constituting the raw and inflaming surface This, in truth, is the most painful of all burns ; and, as formerly obser\ ought to be avoided, when such injuries are inflicted by design with i curative object in view. By gunpowder this burn is often produced and, in such cases, the surrounding skin is begrimed by lodgment of th grains. lY. The skin is wholly cauterized; at once converted into th state of eschar, dark coloured, dry, and insensible. The dead portio contracts in its change ; and, consequently, the surrounding integume presents a puckered appearance, so long as the eschar remains adheren Pain is acute during the burning, but soon subsides; and, for a t: is almost entirely absent. On inflammatory accession, necessary detachment of the eschar, pain returns ; but not of the inordinate de which invariably attends the like stage in the preceding class of inj This is the form which it should be our object to produce in using actual cautery. Y. The cauterization extends deeply ; producing a so rous, black, brittle, and depressed eschar, more or less extensi^'^e; sld in separating, and followed by much suppuration; forming a wound v tedious in its progress towards cure. And the cicatrix is usually of unsatisfactory kind when obtained. YI. The entire thickness of a limb reduced to the state of eschar ; and removal by amputation is demand The spontaneous separation is slow; besides, the stump cannot heal, the system is under much danger by protracted hectic. These differe degrees of burn are divisible into two classes according to their resul The first three, dangerous from extent rather than serious from lo intensity, and not followed, should the patient recover from the ris which immediately follow the infliction of the injury, by axij seno deformity. The last three, again, are rarely extensive, but usually ve serious from tlie inevitable deformity which must occur should cicatr tiou become complete.