AFFECTIONS OF THE VULVA. 1260 towards olfectiiiy a cure; and llio permanence of the relief may be esta- blished. But under other circumstances, the disease generally proves very intractable, especially in those of advanced years. If the patient labours under irritable bowels from any cause, that must be remedied; if worms are present, they must bo expelled; if there arc piles, tliey must be cut or tied; if leucorrhoea exist, its cause is to be inquired into and removed ; if tliere arc pediculi, they must be destroyed and cleanliness enjoined. In general some laxative and alterative medi- cine is beneficial, more particularly arsenical solution. Numerous local applications are of service. Among these are— camphor and chalk powder in equal parts; or calomel, to dust on the part. Simple iced water ; or very warm water; or infusion of tobacco, with borax or carbonate of soda added ; or Goulard's lotion ; or decoc- tion of poppies, with sugar of lead ; or a weak solution of nitrate of silver; or camphor mixture, with carbonate of soda; or diluted hydro- cyanic acid ; or solution of borax with sulphate of morphia—as lotions. Among ointments, the diluted citrine, the mercurial, the hydrocyanic, the sugar of lead, are recommended ; as also borax and honey. In many cases Carron oil affords more satisfactory relief than any other application. Malignant Ulcer of the External Parts Occasionally shews itself. It is recognized by the ordinary characters of malignant ulceration ; presenting either a dense, hard, iU-defined cir- cumference of cancerously altered tissue surrounding a hollowed out, smooth, ulcerated sui'face; or a prominent, warty-looking, ulcerated eleva- tion. In both forms early and wide removal is the only remedy. Sometimes the labia are found enlarged, and more or less extensively and deeply ulcerated; forming a disease which, from its intractability, may well be called malignant; although it has no other character of a cancerous sore. Strong caustics may succeed in producing healing action ; but if not, the knife must be resorted to. Tumours of the Labia. In the Labium, fatty tumours are the most common; easily remov- able by the knife. Simple enlargement sometimes takes place in one labium, or in both ; constituting a tumour analogous to the Elephantiasis Scroti of the male. Encysted tumours occasionally form; when of small size, removable by incision, and evulsion of the cyst; when large, to be dealt with by regular dissection. Hernial tumoui's, be it remembered, are also met with in the labium; recognizable by the ordinary signs, and amenable to thp ordinary treatment. Varicocele is also common in this situation. A Med Fleshy Excrescence in the Orifice of the Urethra Is productive of intense suffering, on account of the part's extreme sensi- bility to the urine, and to all external influences. It is easily made to bleed, and is generally about the size of a pea; sometimes as largo as a