CONSTITUTIONAL TREATMENT. 1187 of the prepuce, situated upon the prolabium, or, in fact, existing under any peculiar circumstances which render speedy cicatrization Avith the restoration of the normal suppleness of the tissue desirable, then mer- curial treatment may be commenced before the cutaneous manifestations display themselves. Also, when the febrile accession sets in with severity, Avhen the chloro-anoemia is well marked and becoming worse instead of better under dietetic and other treatment—when cephalalgia is severe, and, by interfering with rest at night, is gradually enfeebling the patient— the mercurials should be had recourse to without further delay. By the time the erythematous or roseolar eruption has made the nature of the disease unmistakeable, then the remedy should be regularly commenced. In the case of the scaly, early tubercular, and condylomatous affec- tions, and in the form of iritis which so commonly tends to occur in this period, mercurials are certainly more obviously advantageous than at any antecedent or later date. Their use has, therefore, been all but unani- mously approved in such cases. In administering mercurials in syphilis, the effect which we desire is something short of salivation. In fact, whenever the gums become tender the dose should be diminished in frequency or in quantity, so as to keep the system upon the verge of that condition without allowing it to be overstepped. Yet, while stopping short of the actually poisonous effects of mercury, we should not hold our hand in its administration at too early a stage. Till some degree of the physiological effect of a reme- dial agent has been attained, we cannot tell what dose of it is required in each special case. In using mercury, therefore, its effects must be tested; tentatively watching for any tenderness of the gums or foetor of the breath. The gums behind the incisor teeth in the upper jaw, and around the wisdom teeth in the lower, are the parts whicb usually first indicate that the desired limit has been reached. Having discovered the dose suited to the case under treatment, it is usually necessary, so long a.s the agent is continued, to test its effects from time to time ; lest either the cumulative effect of the remedy requires that the dose should be diminished, or special idiosyncrasy demand a larger quantity than before. Should the safe limit be overstepped, the mercurial must be stopped, and means taken to prevent further buccal irritation from developing itself. Of these, saline purgatives, with the use thereafter of the chlorate of potash, will be found most satisfactory; and by some practitioners the prevention of salivation is presumed to be secured, by the administration of the chlorate along with the mercurials. As a general rule, the good effects of mercurial treatment are best observed in the affections which manifest themselves during the early evolution of the diathesis; Avhile in the more advanced, which we have called transitional, commencing in fact in the suppurative eruptive affection, and usually merged insenibly into the tertiary, mercury alone will not be found to act so satisfactorily. Here iodide of potassium may be advantageously combined. Form and Mode of Administering the Mercurials.—Mercury may be administered in the treatment of syphilis, either by the mouth, or by the cutaneous surface. By the former channel, which is the common one.