TllFATMRNT OF BUIINS AiXJJ SCALDS. 522 oozing escapes, the simple—the oxide of zinc—or the sulphur ointment, spread on strips of lint, should be laid over each aperture ; and tliis will he found a much better plan of procedure than soaking the whole Avaddiiig, or irregularly smearing the surface, with carron oil 2. Calm awl rejitore generally. The state of depression must be watched in the first instance, and nothing done to favour its continuance. On this account, when a burn or scald involves a large part of the surface, the continuous use of cold cannot with projDriety be had recourse to. Under such circum- stances, a warm solution of opium, or other anodyne, is preferable, ibr assuaging pain. When the duration and degree of shock threaten to prove excessive, restoratives must be employed ; as heat to the general surface, and warm drinks internally ; followed, if need be, by wine, ammonia, or other stimidants. If reaction prove premature and asthenic, it must be moderated by opium or other calmatives. And opium is often useful, from the first, in full doses, to relieve the great suffering, which otherwise must tend to prolong and aggravate the condition of shock. "When, however, the absorbent surface is extensive, especially in the case of children, its effects as a lotion should be watched, for they may become serious. When also the extent of burn is great, and more or less per- sistent somnolence accompanies it from the commencement, the use of opiates is fraught with danger; as thereby, by what would otherwise be small doses, fatal coma with a contracted pupil has been occasioned. 3. Keep antiphlogistics in view. When stimulating to overcome the shock, the coming sthenic reaction must always be remembered. And, Avhile Ave prevent sinking, we are to be careful not to expedite and aggravate the impending inflammatory attack. 4. Promote sepa- ration of the sloughs. For this, poultice, or warm water-dressing, are the suitable applications. A certain amount of ulceration is essential for detachment; and under these epithems it advances favoiu^- ably. Tor the severer burns, cotton, gum, soap, and varnish, are manifestly unsuitable; the first, especially, would speedily become soaked with discharge, and either require frequent renewal, or else prove a very hot-bed of putrescence. It may happen, occasionally, that the central portion of the eschar is detached at an earher period than the margins ; and pus, accumulating beneath the detached part, does harm to the inflaming and ulcerating textures beneath. Under such circum- stances, the elevated and tense dead portion—the least pressure on -which produces much pain—is to be freely cut through by a bistoury. 5. Limit the inflammatory process. A certain amount of this is necessary, to sepa- rate dead and dying parts from the living, and to originate the subsequent process of granulation. Eut we desire no more than what is essential. The part is kept at rest, in a suitable posture; and is fomented and poulticed, or enveloped in the water-dressing; the detached skin, now containing purulent fluid, and no longer acting as a protecting agent, being carefully and completely removed with scissors. Antiphlogistic regimen is enjoined, in moderation. The bowels are kept open, and per- haps aconite is mildly exhibited. In the more urgent cases—more espe- cially when inflammatory allection of the chest exists—even a inoderate bleeding may be taken from the arm. But all this roust be done with caution, sparingly and grudgingly; for wo know full well that every