779 TOOTIIACI-IE. Canes of the Teeth Is the term employed to denote decay of the dentine ; which decay either commences on the surface, beneatli the enamel, at one or more points, and proceeds inwardly until the pulp cavity is exposed—the enamel also giving way at an early period—or beginning from without, penetrates the enamel, and thus affects the dentine. When the disease is yet recent and limited, its progress may he arrested by cutting away the dis- organized substance, and "stopping" the cavity, either with gold or with cement. But after the pulp has been fairly exposed, and acute pain estab- lished, it may be stated as a general rule—not to be rashly or often deviated from—that under such circum- stances "stopping" is not advisable, and extraction of the offending part is more expedient. Long to retain a decayed tooth, or portion of a tooth, in the hope of by various means quelling the pain of the toothache, and so avoiding the pain of extraction, is to court the accession of some of the more important evils already Fig- 280. eniunerated as likely to spring from such a source of irritation. Toothache, It is important to remember, may proceed from different causes ; and so requires different treatment in different cases. It may be an example of neuralgia—as in females during the period of pregnancy—with or without any connection with diseased teeth or gums; requiring the ordi- nary anti-neuralgic treatment, local and general. It may be caused by caries of the tooth, advanced so as to expose the pulp; and then may be palliated by anodjoies ; temporarily arrested, painfully, by escharotics ; or entirely quenched by extraction of the tooth; and the last, as already stated, is in most cases the preferable proceeding. It may arise from an inflam- matory process in or around the tooth—in the interior of the tooth's cavity, or in the alveolar investing parts—not necessarily connected with decay of the tooth at any part; and this form is plainly to be assuaged by anti- phlogistics, local and general; locally, leeches, fomentation to the gum, and listering the cheek; constitutionally, saline purgatives, antimony, and low diet; the patient at the same time affording as much rest as possible to the affected part, and specially avoiding all irrita- tion of it by tongue, finger, or toothpick. Also, severe pain may be felt in the teeth, apparently sound, quite of a rheu- matic origin and character ; and this is to be got rid of by anti-rheumatic remedies, mainly constitutional in their opera- tion. Change of structure in the fang of the tooth—^it be- coming coated by rough osseous formation'—may induce tense pain, though the organ be in other respects sound; by such ypertrophy, it is probable, the nerves are incommoded and compressed ; Fig. 280. Hopeless destruction of the teeth. Fig. 281. Purulent cyst at the fang of a decayed tooth ; often the simple origin f most serious mischief. Kg. 281.