TREATMENT OF DISLOCATION. 5G1 nlso, rotation is perhaps less easily offectod. But at the same time an obvious advantage results, from the great length of lover whicli can then be employed in moving the head of the bone. On the whole, the former position of the laquo—on the end of the bone—will be found generally preferred ; the more especially as now-a-days muscular resistance is likely to be aimulled by chloroform. The chrection in which the extending force is to be applied must vaiy according to the nature of the individual dislocation. But the patient is not at once to be attacked by mechanical force. There are powerful auxiliary means which are invariahly to be used, in the first instance, in all cases where difficulty of reduction is anticipated. The less force employed, the less severe and hazardous will he the reduc- tive efforts. We shall avoid the risk of rupturing muscle, artery, vein, and nervBj or of at all events so injuring the parts as to kindle an active inflammatory process in them. The muscular system may be overcome by other means than an extending force ; means not directed to the part, but to the whole frame. We imitate the state in which the patient is found inmiediately after infliction of the injury; when the opportunity is so very favourable to reduction, by reason of the prostrate and unre- sisting condition of the whole muscular system. The patient is to be temporarily enfeebled. A large bleeding from the arm will effect this ; but the same object may be obtained without waste of the precious fluid ; and, therefore, such other means are preferable. The patient may be put into a warm bath, and kept there till faintness ensue; or tartar emetic may be given in repeated doses ; * or tobacco may be administered —^in the form of enema—until the desired effect has been obtained. Or, incomparably the best of all—chloroform is inhaled, until the full effect of deep anaesthesia is produced; when every voluntary muscle becomes relaxed as if in death. And thus the double advantage is obtained, of procuring muscular relaxation, at once more thorough and more tempo- rary than by any other agent; while at the same time an otherwise very painful operation is completed on a quite unconscious patient. Besides, there being seldom any necessity for applying much force, to extend muscles already so much relaxed, the risks by tear and subsequent inflam- matory excess are greatly diminished. Tlie procedure to be followed, therefore, in cases of old standing is :— first to overcome the patient's muscular frame, and then to apply extend- ing force, by laque and pulleys, in the right direction; extension being made from the distal extremity of the bone or of the limb, as circum- tances may seem to indicate. When extension has been steadily con- inued for some time, the implicated muscles plainly yield, the head of he bone becomes more loose and movable, and approaches the plane of lie articulating surface which it left; then rotation is to be practised reely, in order to remove those adventitious hindrances, by plastic pro- uct and adhesion, which may oppose replacement. And this having een done, by coaptating movements of the surgeon's hand, the head of The native Indians arc well acquainted with this practice. " In cases wliere Y do not succeed readily, they nauseate the patient to a most distressing degree, ifl then find no very great difficulty in reducing the luxation."—i»/o«^/t/w Journal, Pnl 1846, p. 306. ^ & j , 2 o