FRACTURE OF THE l^ATELLA. * 1315 ligamentous union is all that usually results ; alfording sufficient firm- ness and resistance for action of the muscles, apparently leaving the play of the joint less fettered, and proving less liable to recurrence of a solution of continuity. AVhen the separation is great, the uniting medium between the fragments consists merely of the fascia of the limb thickened by interstitial change, which, although commonly described as constitut- ing a long ligamentous union, is in reality no ligament at all. As the consolidation advances, passive motion is gently begun ; otherwise the muscles may prove slow in recovering their function. Dr. Sanborn of Lowell, Massachusetts, treats these transverse fractures by means of a long strip of adhesive plaster (four feet long, and two and a half inches Avide), applied along the front of the thigh and leg, leaving a loop in the middle. A bandage is then applied above and below the knee to support the foot and limb, and prevent the plaster slipping. A hard compress having been laid over the upper margin of the patella, a small stick is put through the loop of plaster, and twisted from time to time so as to approximate the separated fragments of the bone. Should peculiarities of the case render such simple treatment insuffi- cient, and a Hgamentous union of redundant length be threatened, more coercive measures are necessary. A broad leather belt is passed round the limb above the patella, and another below it; by cross belts, tightened as circumstances require, the circular girths are brought together; and their approximation includes that of the fragments of the bone. This may also be effected by means of bandages. Or Lonsdale's apparatus may be worn ; which has the advantage of avoiding constriction of the limb. In cases of non-union, the constant wearing of such an apparatus restores the limb to a great degree of usefulness. Lately a case occurred to me, in which it was found quite impossible to maintain satisfactory apposition of the fragments, on account of a large bulging in the thigh, caused by exuberant callus—the result of previous fracture, ill adjusted. Malgaigne has invented a very simple apparatus for the treatment of transverse fi^actures of the patella, consisting of two pair of steel hooks with fine needle-points attached to plates, wliich slide upon each other, and thus admit of being approximated by an endless screw. The sharp hooks, introduced through the integument, are lodged in the upper and lower margins of the bone. Accurate adjustment of the broken surfaces is then effected by means of the screw. Malgaigne has obtained a suc- cessful result in one case of mal-adjustment and great separation, by the use of this apparatus, assisted by subcutaneous scraping of the osseous surfaces with a tenotomy knife. Compound Fractures of the patella have generally an unfortunate issue; the joint inflaming acutely, and becoming disorganized. Not unfrequently, amputation is required, to save life. In the case of such an injury, excision of the joint had better be performed as a primary operation, with the view of checking the inflammatory tension, and hastening the progress of the case to a satisfactory issue. Laceration of the Ligamentum Patellce.—Instead of the patella giving way, under intense muscular action, the ligamentum pateUo; may be torn asunder; causing a hiatus at the injured part, with pain, swell- ing, and lameness—the power of flexion being alone retained. Treat-