TREATMENT OF SOIRRHUS. 180 and lympliatic circulation, remain unaflfected, makes it probable that the infection occurs through the medium of the absorbed juices of the cancer groAvth, rather than by detached cells or masses entering the circulation. Sometimes the fatal issue is accelerated by the accession of an internal disorder, structurally unconnected with the cancer. In cancer of the mamma, for example, pleurisy with effusion is often the immediate cause of death. The period of lymphatic invasion varies. Sometimes it begins at a very early stage of the primary tumour. In other cases, months and ahnost years may have elapsed, without as yet any affection of the lymphatics being apparent; but this is as the exception to the general rule. It is seldom that the stage of cancer has been of long duration, without secondary lymphatic formation having been at least apparent; the ganglia, which seemed to remain sound during the occult stage, soon (living way when the open condition has been established. Sometimes the secondary lymphatic tumour is not scirrhous, but medullary. During the cancerous progress, a peculiar fragility of the skeleton is liable to occur; untowardly complicating the case. On some slight exertion, as turning in bed, waUdng across the room, or rising up sud- denly—or in consequence of some slight injury, by blow or fall—a bone breaks. The patient becomes bedridden in consequence; by confine- ment the cachexy is increased; and the fatal issue is accelerated. Some- times the bone unites in the ordinary way, by caUus, under the ordi- nary treatment; and the patient temporarUy recovers from the compli- cation. Sometimes there is no union at all. Perhaps, more frequently, there is a reproductive effort, but not of caUus; a depraved formation takes place ; and, at the site of the fractui-e, a cancerous mass is soon developed, either newly, or fcom a cancerous nodule which had previously existed, and which, by attenuating the bone, rendered it thus predisposed to fracture at this spot. This disease has been supposed contagious ; but the evidence on this subject is very unsatisfactory. That it is hereditary, and often trans- mitted from parent to child, there seems little room to doubt; such taint constituting a predisposing cause. The exciting cause may be injury, or stimulation of a part, in a system previously depraved; and with, or without, the previous existence of other tumour. Treatment.—It is hopeless, and worse than useless, to attempt dis- cussion of scirrhus. The tumour wiU only have its energies further roused, and proceed more rapidly to its fatal issue. Besides, valuable time will have been sadly mis-spent, and opportunity lost of affording the most favourable chance of cure—by timely extirpation. Leeching, lest, and the application of cold, may palliate the symptoms, and retard the growth; yet they do nothing towards actual cure; and are reprehen- sible as consumers of valuable time. But, as formerly stated, benefit occasionally results from discussion of the common products of the sub- inilammatory process, wliich may have taken place around, and on whicli much of the apparent bulk of the tumour may depend. Let this attempt, however, be cautiously conducted; on the one hand, so as to avoid the ibsorntion of the cancerous formation; on the other, lest excitement ensue, with increase of the formative effort, whetlier in or around the 3our; as from either of these extremes nothing but harm can follow.