183 TREATMENT OF SCmilHUS. tumours are such as would bring tlio knife unpleasantly near to important pai-ts. It may also be used sometimes as an auxiliary, when the Imife has taken away as much as it can, and a suspected portion yet remains, inaccessible to its edge ; or when the disease returns in the wound before cicatrization is complete. On the whole, however, we incHne to believe that excision is the pre- ferable mode of removal, in the majority of cases ; by a free, cautious, and wide dissection. Care being taken, that not only the whole of the morbid structure is taken away, but also that a border of apparently sound texture goes with it; in order, if possible, to make sure that none of the textures*LLkely to contain the germs of the disease are left behind. In regard to such dissection, it is useful to remember, that dense fibrous tis°sue resists the invasion of scirrlius longer than any other; and that, consequently, the incisions need be less free beyond that tissue, even where it is partially incorporated with the tumoui-. But yet, in all cases, the propriety is obvious of approaching error on the safer side; rather sacrificing texture unnecessarily, than encountering the risk of leaving a nucleus of reproduction behind. Some, taking an abstract view of the subject, entertain a question as to the expediency of operating at all in cases of scirrhus ; inclining to regard the affection as wholly constitutional, and not to be eradicated, or even restrained, by removal of only a local manifestation. This view we do not propose to consider; but, with the majority of the profession, granting that the disease is constitutional as well as local, and that in most cases it shews as much of the former as of the latter character; granting that very many cases occur—doubtless the majority—in which operation is inexpedient; and granting that in all cases, looking to the constitutional vice, we can never be certain of immunity from return, and must invariably issue a guarded prognosis accordingly :—still we are of opinion, that there are cases, not seldom presenting themselves to the surgeon in extensive practice, in which it is his bounden duty, by opera- tion, to afford his patient the chance either of a definite and radical cure, or at least of a postponement and palliation of the malady. Such cases are those in which the tumour is yet small, and comparatively circum- scribed ; the lymphatics unchanged, either in the immediate vicinity or at a distance; the integuments and muscles free from incorporation; the patient neither young nor very far advanced in years; and the cachexy as yet but little indicated, if at all. On the other hand, affection of the lymphatics, already begun, even though to no great extent, contra-indi- cates operation; for, according to experience, reproduction is almost sure to follow, even when the surgeon is certain that not only the tumour itself, but the adjoining changed structure as well, lymphatic or not, has been thoroughly taken away. Incorporated sldn and muscle can be re- moved, by wide and free incision; yet, in such cases, it is often difficult, if not impossible, to say that what is left is sound, free from lodgment of the materies morbi already in its texture; and, in these circumstances, experience again gives unfavourable testimony as to the ultimate result. In the very old, a scirrhus may exist for years, in a latent or indolent condition; still occult, and still of small size and circumscribed ; the seat of little uneasiness, and attended with but little disorder of the system ;