FOREIGN BODIES. 651 dressing and bandaging necessary for tliis purpose is continued even for some time after the parts have licaled. Foreign Bodies. Foreign bodies of small size—as particles of sand, dust, glass, coal— very frequently lodge under cover of the eyelids, on their conjunctival lining. The patient, suffering much pain and irritation—with the eye already red, intolerant of light, and profusely lachrymating—applies for our aid on account of "something in his eye." Gently opening the eyehds, before a steady light, we scrutinize the eyeball in the first place; directing the patient to roll the organ in various directions, in order to facihtate such examination. If particles are found adherent, they are in general easily removed ; by a cui^ette, or flat end of a probe; by a hair pencil; or by a fold of a soft handkerchief. If fine dust only have lodged, fomentation and ablution will ordinarily suffice. Sometimes it may be necessary to inject a gentle stream of tepid water, by means of a small syringe. In other cases, it is enough to shut the eye, or keep it shut, for a few minutes—occasionally blowing the nose ; thus favouring the natural washing away of the foreign particles, by increased lachrymal and conjunctival secretion. The eyeball having been duly scanned, the lower eyelid is next examined; its conjunctival lining being readily exposed to a sufficient extent, by simple depression of the part. Eut the upper eyelid is the site most frequently occupied by the foreign sub- stance; and it cannot be sufficiently exposed, without eversion. This is effected by placing a probe horizontally across the lid, above its cartilage; taking hold of the eyelashes with the finger and thumb; and bending the eyehd backwards over the probe. If the foreign matter be loose, it is removed by any of the means already mentioned. If it be firmly lodged, the point of a tooth-pick, of a couching needle, or of the eye spud, will most conveniently effect its dislodgment. In certain occupations, particles of steel or iron are apt to get between the eyelids, and often become impacted in the cornea, and require the poiut of a couching needle, spud, or minute gouge-shaped instrument, to effect their dislodgment. When no assistance is at hand, the patient may himself, in many cases, get rid of the irritating matter; by elevating the upper eyelid with the fingers of one hand, and pulling it downwards, while he at the same time closes the lower, and pushes it upwards. Having pressed gently over the globe, the finger is then withdrawn, and the Hds allowed to separate. The eyelashes of the lower lid are thus made to sweep the conjunctival lining of the upper ; and it is in the latter situation, as al- ready stated, that foreign bodies of smaU size usually lodge. When grains of gunpowder, fragments of sand, gravel, wood, or metal, are lodged beneath the conjunctiva, their presence as foreign bodies sets up the inflammatory process sooner or later; and this consideration snould therefore determine their removal at once. This can be most easily effected, usually, by picking up the portion of conjunctiva which covers them, by means of a pair of fine artery forceps, and snipping it away witli a pair of small curved scissors. The fragment, if not rc-