CHAPTER LVIIL AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER Cystitis. The inflammatory process, attacking the bladder, may be acute or chronic; and either form constitutes a formidable disease. Acute Cystitis may be the result of direct injury ; as in Lithotripsy or Lithotomy. Or it may be a continuation, or a metastasis, of inflammatory disease else- where, as in gonorrhoea. Or it may be of idiopathic origin. Or it may follow the use of internal irritants ; as cantharides. Most fre- quently it is the consequence of acute and ill-treated gonon'hoea. The symptoms are : pain in the region of the bladder, and also referred to the perineum and sacrum, sometimes stinging along the urethra ; tender- ness over the pubes ; the urine voided very frequently, with great pain and straining—the pain being greatest after the bladder has been emptied ; the urine at first clouded with mucus, afterwards puriform in character ; sometimes, after the urine has passed, a small quantity of puriform matter is expelled with much suffering ; often the urine is mixed with blood ; sometimes, after scanty and turbid urine has passed, pure blood escapes, in drops or other small quantity. The system is involved in smart sympathetic fever. The affection may extend by the external coat of the viscus, and general peritonitis result. Sloughing of the whole thickness of the mucous lining of the bladder, leaving the muscular texture exposed, has sometimes been observed. Spasm may simulate most of the symptoms ; but is known by absence of inflammatory fever, and by the character of the pain—which, in spasm, is sudden in its accession, not gravescent, rapid in its disappearance, and may be intermittent. In the treatment of acute cystitis, antiphlogistics are to be phed actively. Blood is drawn from part and system ; fomentations and the hip-bath are used ; antimony, and if need be, calomel and opium are given ; opium, by the mouth and rectum, is usually indispensable—after bleeding—to subdue pain ; and the recumbent posture must be rigidly enjoined. This last indication is indeed imperative, in the treatment of all inflammatory affections of the bladder ; the erect and semi-erect pos- tures tending obviously to favour determination of blood to the pelvic organs. The bowels are to be relieved by enemata, aided by the gentlest possible laxatives ; so as to avoid straining. During convalescence, the urine will probably require a special treatment; varying, according as that fluid evinces an acid or an alkaline character. Chronic Cystitis, or Catarrhus Vesicce, is generally symptomatic of