PERIOSTITIS. 271 from the first tonse, and very perceptible to both siglit and touch, especially to the latter. At first the skin may be pale, lax, and unin- volved in the painful swelHng beneath ; sooner or later, however, swelling becomes more diffuse and general, and the integument grows tense, red, and tender; resembling very closely the aspect of a part affected with phlegmonous erysipelas, from which, however, it is to be distinguished by the greater degree of acute inflammatory fever by which it is accom- panied. All the symptoms, but more especially the pain, undergo nocturnal exacerbation—as happens in most affections of the hard textures ; and the aggravation is not least distinct in those cases which are most chronic in their nature. Day is the period of waste; night, that of repair. The inflammatory process, so far as it is constructive especially, may be considered as analogous to the latter function—nutri- tion in an exalted and perverted form ; its nocturnal exacerbation, there- fore, may be regarded as but in obedience to a general law. It is pro- bable that the inflammatory process, wherever situated, undergoes this nocturnal change; but the occurrence is naturally most marked in affec- tions of unyielding textures, where decided increase of turgescence, by product, must be accompanied by corresponding aggravation of pain. Periostitis is invariably accompanied by important constitutional symptoms. If the affection be acute, there is high inflammatory fever ; frequently, in children, attended with delirium. If slow and chronic, there is palpable derangement of health, of a corresponding type. The patient grows pale, weak, and thin; loses his strength, spirits, and appetite; sleep is broken, or altogether dispelled, by the nocturnal exacerbations ; constitutional irritation is plainly developed; it assumes the hectic type, and may advance to most formidable severity. The membrane is found changed; thickened, and increased in vas- cularity ; softened in the acute form, dense in the chronic ; in the acute loosened from its connection with the bone, in the chronic adhering to it with unnatural firmness. Fibrinous product forms on both its aspects ; diffuse exteriorly, limited towards the bone. In the latter situation, if the process proceed no higher than the second stage, the inflammatory product, more or less plastic, may become organized. A distinct, firm, tender swelling results; termed Node. This consists of thickened periosteum, having in and beneath it plastic matter, which is undergoing organization; formed partly from the periosteum, partly from the cor- responding surface of bone secondarily involved. And, unless either absorption return in great activity, so as to remove all excess, or suppu- ration supervene to undo organization, that latter process advances to completion, and the corpuscular elements become transformed into bone ; the swelling then becoming less painful, more defined, hard, and unyield- ing. According to Mr. Goodsir, the periosteum, when raised by the product beneath, "drags out or extends the processes which stretch from its internal surface into the superficial Haversian canals; and as the texture which occupies the canals is the formative organ of bone, these retracted processes are the centres from which new deposits of bone proceed."* In the simply fibrinous state, the swelling is termed a recent or Inflammatory node ; when ossified. Chronic or Conflrmed. • Monthly .Tonrnal, Fuh. 1850, p. 103.