1021 THE OPERATION. sutures, aiid suitable pressure ai^plied by a pad and bandage. Approxi- mation by suture should not be too accurate, however; for union by adliesion is not always desirable, otherwise danger might accrue from retention of the inflammatory products foi'med either in the deep wound or within the peritoneal cavity. They should be allowed a free out- ward drain. When hernia is irreducible, we content ourselves with division of the strictiu'e. If the contents are sound, the external wound is approxi- mated with a view to adhesion. If the contents are found gangrenous, or verging thereto, the wound is left open, to permit free discharge of the fteculent contents. If on exposing the contents of a reducible hernia, the bowel be found merely congested—ruby or chocolate coloured, it may be—perhaps spotted by points of ecchymosis, or showing one or more vesicles of the peritoneal coat—it is reduced unliesitatmgly. If showing signs of plastic product on its surface, it may still be reduced ; no structural change has taken place but what may be recovered from. But if the bowel be dark-purple at some parts, greenish at another, and perhaps ash- coloured at a third, friable, and from the odour evidently fast passing into gangrene; or if at the part nipped by the constriction, the ulcera- tion proceeding from within has nearly divided the intestinal coats— it must not be reduced; else fatal fajculent extravasation will ensue. And if tlie contained omentum be found dark-red, emphysematous, and with its venous blood coagulated, it too must be left to slough in its outward site ; in either case, however, as much cai;e being taken to free the neck of the tumour by division of the stricture, as if the whole were fit for reduction. In the case of gangrened bowel, it is also well to incise the sloughing part, so as to afford relief by immediate and copious faeculent evacuation; afterwards introducing a single point of suture to keep the aperture of the bowel in contact with the integu- mental wound. Subsequently, the treatment is as already described for artificial anus. In the case of gangrenous omentum, two modes of procedure are in our option. We may cut off the dead portion, having previously satisfied ourselves that there is no portion of bowel within the mass, secure the vessels by fine ligatures, and return all Avithin the abdomen. Or, having cut oiS" the gangrened part, and secured the bleeding points, we may leave the rest still impacted in the abdominal outlet, with the view to its becoming permanently fixed there, and so preventing all future tendency to protrusion. The former method—though not free from risk by bleeding and inflammatory change within the abdominal cavity—is usually preferred; the latter being often followed by uneasy sensations in the part, and proneness to abdo- minal disorder. In all cases of doubt as to viability of the strangulated parts, reduction should at least be delayed. It is never to be forgotten, that notwithstanding relief and replacement, inflammatory disease may still advance in the bowel, so as to cause loss of continuity by ulceration. And if this take place within the abdomen, and be followed by ft^culent escape, before adhesion of the bowel to surrounding parts directs the ffecal flow to the surface, the patient's doom is sealed.