EFFECTS OF LIGATUEE. 410 blance of interruption. But sometimes it is otherwise. Collateral cir- culation which liad existed previously to the aneurismal formation, becomes more full and free immediately thereafter; and after deligatiou of the main artery it undergoes necessarily a further enlargement, by the increased strain that is suddenly thrown upon it. At first the tempera- ture of the limb falls; in consequence of the direct arterial influx being suddenly impeded. But subsequently, it rises even higher than the previous standard; the circulation having resumed its wonted copious- ness, and the superficial vessels, especially, being more plentifully sup- plied. Some of these, scarcely appreciable before, may be both seen and felt pulsating vigorously. Sometimes, however, the temperature again falls beneath the standard of health. In conseb[uence of re-establishment of the limb's circulation, pulsa- tion usually returns for a time in the tumour; blood having freely come again by the circuitous route into the cyst, as well as into the main vessel on the distal aspect of the ligature. The ligature never wholly arrested sanguineous flow there, even for a moment; collateral circulation is at all times too free to admit of this. It was only moderated ; and this moderation, conjoined with removal of the heart's impulse, was sufficient to originate the process of solidification, and temporarily to withdraw pulsation from the tumour. Complete arrest of the flow is not essential to cure ; nor indeed is it desirable. "We do not desiderate an empty condition of the aneurismal cyst, but that it should be filled by solid contents. And, to afi'ord a pabulum for fibrinous solidification, a certain amount of circulation is essential; slow and dull, to favour coagulation; and without energy of impulse, so as to maintain no dis- tending or expansive efiect on the cyst. Along with return of pulsation, there may occur pain and heat, with other evidences of inflammatory accession in the tumour. So much the better; so long as they do not proye excessive, and threaten suppm'ation; for it is by such change in the cyst that the deposit of and the aggluti- nation to the solid contents of the aneurism is most quickly and securely effected. Ordinarily all tenderness subsides in a day or two ; rendering the part quite tolerant of gentle pressure. And it may sometimes be expedient to have recourse to this, cautiously, when the return-pulsa- tion threatens to continue beyond what is desirable. In api)lying such pressure the bandage is begun at the lower part of the limb, and no part is left unsupported. Such is the modern operation for aneurism, with the effects which are expected to issue from it; when properly conducted. But there is a preparatory and a subsequent treatment, of much importance ; neither of which can with safety be neglected. A patient is not to be taken from his ordinary avocations, and at once subjected to the ligature. For some days he should be kept in a state of repose ; his bowels and gene- ral secretions should be attended to ; his diet should be restricted, and all stimulant fluids absolutely j)rohibited. If there be a fuhiess of the circulation, or any apparent tendency to the inflammatory process, a moderate bleeding may be practised, or aconite or antimony given. After operation, complete quietude of both body and mind is maintained, and every other means taken likely to ensure a gentle and moderate state