1331 DISLOCATIONS OF THE TARSUS. divided, aiid cannot be secured without extensive enlargement of tlio wound, and disturbance of the soft parts ; when the common integu- ments, with the neighbouring tendons and muscles, are considerably torn; when the protruded tibia cannot by any means be reduced; and when the constitution of tlie patient is enfeebled at the time of the accident, and not likely to endiue pain, discharge, or long confinement." Cer- tainly when the accident is so complex, amputation at the ankle-joint, with removal of the extremities of the tibia and fibula as high as they are denuded of soft parts, should be performed ; or should the soft parts of the heel, or the blood-vessels and nerves at the site of the wound, be seriously injured, amputation of the leg at the point of election, four inches below the tuberosity of the tibia, may be reqmred. In a simpler form of compound dislocation of the ankle, however, when the wound of the soft parts precludes all hope of union by the first intention, the protruding articular surface should be thoroughly disclosed by incision, and the end of the bone removed by the saw. Suitable splints are then applied, and by careful after-treatment the inflammatory process is moderated, so that ultimate consolidation of soft and hard parts ensues, and a useful limb, after a tedious confinement, is preserved for the patient. Secondary hemorrhage may ensue from the posterior tibial, in a case otherwise afibrding a chance of cure. In such circumstances, if all the other points of the case are favourable, the bleeding vessel should be secured by ligature. But if there be profusion of unhealthy discharge, manifest indication of ulceration in the joint, or signs of incipient gan- grene in the wound and on the foot—then amputation is to be performed, with as little delay as possible. Dislocations of the Tarsus. I. Of the Tarsal range of bones, the Astragalus is the most fre- quently displaced by violence. Its dislodUtion may be either complete or partial; and it may take place in various directions. 1. Forwards. This is by far the most frequent form. When the ankle is fully ex- tended, a large amount of the upper articular surface of the bone is ex- posed j and if, by a fall, a powerful shock should then be applied to the calcaneum, the astragalus is very apt to be loosened and displaced— forwards and inwards—coming to rest on the navicular bone. Some- times the displacement is forwards and outwards; the bone resting on the OS cuboides. The nature of the accident is at once declared, by the manifest appearance of the astragalus in its abnormal site. Eeduction is to be attempted by persevering extension of the foot, with the leg flexed; while the bone is pushed backwards to its place. And, with the aid of chloroform, we shall not despair of success in all recent cases. If the luxation have been complete, and remain unreduced, tension of the integument will be such as to render sloughing inevitable at the tense part; and the case so becomes compound. When the case is from the first compound, or when it ultimately becomes so by sloughing or ulcer- ation of the strained and bruised integument, and also when the cu'cum- stances are such as to render it plain that sloughing or ulceration must soon occur—the luxated bone is to be removed by incision, the limb is