350 ULCERATION OR DESTRUCTION OF CARTILAGE. which probably forms, when abundant, the porcellanous alteration to be afterwards described. ^'ig- 149. rig. 150. Ulceration or Destruction of Cartilage. This may be a sub-acute or chronic process ; leading to little pain, or perhaps none, if the cartilage alone be involved ; unattended, at least in the first instance, by any purulent or even puriform secretion ; and giving rise to no swelling. This state of matters, while confined to the cartilage alone, may, we believe, exist "wdthout symptoms for weeks or even months. The characters of the disease thus established may vary according to its extent. When recent and limited, it is often of a circular form, aud seeming as if a chemical erosion of the tissue had there occurred; with- out any sign of attempted repair. The aflPected surface is usually villous or velvety, even to the naked eye when floated, in water ; and under the microscope shews the bands and fibres arising from the splitting hyaline substance. When the affection is very superficial, much of the cartilage may present this character without any other mark of disease. "\ATien, however, the morbid process involves other textures, symptoms of a severe character become developed. The bone may have been laid bare, or disease may be lighted up in the synovial apparatus ; an accute inflam- matory process ensues ; pus is formed from the rapid multiplication of the cartilage corpuscles, and transformation of the granulating synovial membrane and osseous tissues, should they be affected ; destruction of the cartilage in a more rapid form is accordingly established, accompanied with pain, swelling, and fever. The destructive affections of cartilage, attended by characteristic Fig. 149. Vertical section of cartilage in a diseased knee-joint, shewing the cells enlarged, granular, and biirstiiig. On the right, and above, their contents are seen mingling with a fibrous and granular mass which occupies the surface.—Hedfekn. Pig. 150. Deposition of opaque calcareous matter, commencing in tlie walls of the cartilnge cells.—Redfern.