FISTULA LACIIRYMALIS. 668 soomed favourable, the use of tlie instraiiicut was wliolly aLandoned; and the external aperture, now much contracted, was permitted and encouraged to close entirely. Frequently no aid was required to secure this kttoi event. But if the fistula threatened to prove obstinate, the touch of a heated wire, or point of caustic, usually effected its contraction and closure. At one time, tubes were employed instead of styles. Experience however, proved them to be inferior. They created the same disturhauce in the jiart, were apt to become obstructed, equally required occasional removal, and, in some cases, their attempted removal was attended Avitli the utmost difficulty. But now-a-days all these tedious and painful proceedings have Ijeen superseded by the simple and efficient procedure of Mr. Bowman, to which we have abeady so frequently in this chapter had occasion to allude. In performing it, the operator must bear in mind the rela- tive position and direction of the puncta, canalicuH, sac, and nasal duct. The patient to be operated upon may either sit or lie, the operator may either be seated in front or stand behind, and the patient's head should be steadied; the operator everts the angular edge of the lower lid," close to the inner canthus; recognising the little punctum on its apex, h passes the point of the grooved j)robe (made for this purpose) pei-pen- dicularly into the canaliculus ; then, stretching the margin of the hd outi wards, by the fingers of his own or of an assistant's hand, he directs th point of the probe inwards towards the sac, gliding it smoothly onwards If it is obstructed at the entrance into the sac, it drags upon the lid, anc puckers the integument along the Line of the tendo oculi. Passed inl the sac, it impinges against the os unguis, which is recognised by the sea sation of firm resistance, and by the depth to which the probe-director' point has sunk in the canal. The groove should now be turned tow; the conjunctival aspect of the lid ; and by running a sharp-pointed, t" bladed knife along the groove, the canaliculus is converted into a slit, the sac is fi-eely opened. Should the obstruction be due to the conditio: of the punctum, canal, or sac, this incision must be prevented from h ing; and there is no further operation needed, the lachrymal fis; healing spontaneously; but should an obstruction exist in the duct, further treatment of that condition will be required. When constriction exists in the canaliculus close to the sac, it has been commended that a canula with a sliding lancet blade should be employee for the division of the constriction. But this is quite unnecessary grooved probe, if fine enough in the point, will readily permeate the strii ture, by a little careful manipulation; and if the knife employed is enough to slide easily in the groove, the constriction can be more tainly divided by means of it than by any ingenious arrangement c mechanical device. At one time it was a common practice to seek a more direct road the nasal fossa, than through the obstructed laclirymal duct, by perfoK: tion of the os unguis. This destruction of unimplicated textm'e, ho^fc ever, is in the present day very properly deemed unwarrantable, excef in cases of congenital absence, or osseous occlusion, of the nasal duct If necrosis accompany the condition of fistula lachrymalis, exfoliatia