1130 RETENTION FROM DISEASED PROSTATE. When retention has occurred, tlie catheter requu-es a peculiarity of management. As already stated, the urethra is considerably elongated • and the catheter must be of proportional length. The prostatic portion of the urethra almost invariably has a bend given to it, antero-posteriorly —that is, the convexity is towards the rectum, the concavity towards the pubes ; and to suit this pecuHarity of form, the instrument should have a largo curve. Very frequently, the central enlargement or " third lobe," as it is usually called—exists; and, to surmount it, it is well to have at least one instrument in the prostatic set, whose point makes a sharper curve upon the general bend. It is introduced carefully; and, to assist the point onwards, the handle is freely depressed after passing the tri- angular ligament; while, at the same time, the point is elevated by means of the finger in the rectum. If the silver catheter, thus made and managed, refuse to enter, one of elastic gum may be tried; bent to the proper shape, and introduced with the stilet. On reaching the pro- static obstruction, the stilet is gently and partially withdrawn, while the catheter is pushed steadily on, and the consequent elevation of the point may perhaps lead it over the obstructiom Or, the stilet being held steady, the tube is passed on, and the same effect is produced—the catheter's point curving round that of the stilet, as it were. There is another peculiarity. As the prostate enlarges, not only is the prostatic portion of the urethra unusually extended and curved ; it is also very considerably enlarged, by dilatation of the prostatic sinuses on each side of the verumontanum.* In retention, this dilatation is usually full of urine ; in fact, it may be considered as a small accessory bladder in front of the real one. On the catheter reaching it, a spoonful or two of urine may be discharged, and the surgeon may in consequence be led to suppose that he has reached and emptied the bladder, and that the remaining swelling consists of abscess ; the plunge of a trocar may follow ; or the patient may be left to his fate, unrelieved. But by in- variably using the long catheter, in such cases, and never resting satisfied until tlds instrument is passed tenus capulo—unless, indeed, water flow freely, without such extreme insertion—the surgeon is safe from all such serious error. Perhaps the prostatic obstruction proves insurmountable. Then the bladder must be reheved at all hazards ; and one or other of the follow- ing methods may be adopted :—The catheter may be forced through the obstruction j guided in a good direction by the finger in the rectum. Or a trocar and canula may be used, instead of the catheter. Or the bladder may be punctured above the pubes, Tlie operation by the rectum is obviously unsuitable. Of these proceedings, perforation of the prostatic obstruction is the most advisable, by means of a suitable trocar and canula; the latter of the same length and calibre as a full-sized prostatic catheter, but consi- derably less curved. It is passed carefully on to the obstruction, mth its trocar withdrawn, and with its extremity temporarily occupied with a bulbous wire ; and, when satisfied by the finger in the rectum, that tlie instrument is duly directed towards the bladder, the bidbous Avire is removed, the trocar is inserted and protruded, and the whole is pushed * Deschamps, Trait6 de la Taille, torn, i. p. 222.