1317 FRACTUEE OF THE FIBULA. fractured surface. To remedy this condition, the " horse-shoe," "stirrup," or " spur-splint," is necessary; which consists of a straight piece of wood, three inches Avide, extending from the knee to above the ankle, where it terminates in an arch with two projecting arms. The arch corresponds to the ankle-joint; the projections to either side of the foot—beyond the solo of which they should be long enough to project. A horse-hair pad is arranged between the front of the leg and the splint, and the apparatus is retained with the help of handkerchiefs or roller bandages. The effect of this form of apparatus is to draw the heel forwards, and with it the lower ends of the broken bones. Fracture of the Head of the Tibia is the result of great and direct violence ; the fracture extending into the knee-joint. Treatment is as for the analogous fracture of the femur, at its condyles. The limb is placed straight, so that the condyles may act as retaining splints on the fragments; and the limb is also elevated, so as to relax the extensor muscles, which, through the ligament of the patella, act on the lower fragment. Passive motion is expedient, so soon as consolidation has advanced so far as to admit of it. Fracture of the Tibia immediately below its Tubercle.—^The pecu- liarity of this form of injury is, the tendency to rising in the upper fragment, through agency of the muscles acting by the ligamentum patellae. The rising is aggravated by flexion of the knee. The Hmb is therefore placed and retained in the straight posture, and elevated. Fracture of the Tibia, at any lower 2^oint, is well treated with two side splints retained by loop bandages ; the limb being laid upon the outer side on a pillow, with the knee completely flexed, and the patient resting upon the injured side. Or the case may be treated by means of Salter's swinging apparatus, or by the double-inclined plane. When this bone sufi'ers alone, there is usually but little displacement; the fibula acting as a restraining splint. Crepitus, mobility, and pain at the seat of fracture, are recognized by carrying the finger, with steady pressure, along the spine of the tibia. Fracture of the Fibula.—This bone most frequently gives way near its lower extremity, at a short distance above the external malleolus. When force is suddenly applied, so as to cause eversion of the foot— as in twisting the foot, on the side of a stone, or in a gutter—this eversion is resisted by the external malleolus ; but if the force be sufii- cient to overcome the resistance, the bone snaps at its weakest point —from two to three inches above the ankle-joint—and eversion of the Fig. 355. Fracture of the fibula; with the splint applied. The foot should be more inverted.