TKEATMENT OF DEFORMITIES FROM DISEASE OF JOINTS. 359 strong predisposition to it, let the operation be undertaken, hopeful of success; but if, on the contrary, the internal organs be plainly already involved, and that seriously, let us by all means refrain from operating, and content ourselves with palliation of the more distressing and urgent symptoms. Wlien there are strong marks of predisposition, but yet no decided evidence of the internal disease, expediency of operation is at all times doubtful; and the question can only be rightly resolved by the deliberate use of judgment and experience. Should amputation be per- formed, immediate union of the wound by adhesion is j)lainly not desir- able ; for sudden drying up of the long continued discharge might seriously incommode the system. We seek suppuration and granulation, and, by that mode of healing, have a gradual transition to local sound- ness. Wlien, however, the disease of the joint is a source of great suf- fering, with loss of sleep and appetite, and the patient is obviously dying unless relieved from its irritation, the operation may then be undertaken without regard to the presence of incipient disease elsewhere. In such circumstances, disease of the lungs has been arrested, and serious disease of the kidney has not proved fatal; while in other cases the confinement to bed which the disease of a joint has required, has apparently induced disease of internal organs, a result which a timeous operation might have prevented. In those cases in which cure is slowly advancing by anchylosis, it is very important, with a view to the future usefulness of the limb, to have regard to the position of the joint. In the elbow, for example, we prefer neither complete extension nor extreme flexion, but an intermediate angular position; the limb, when so fixed, being most favourably dis- posed for prehension. The spontaneous flexion of the knee, on the con- trary, wiU be gradually undone, and yet full extension not desired ; the limb when slightly bent, so as to permit weight to rest on the ball of the foot, being in the posture best suited for progression. When cure has resulted with fixity of the joint, whether in a favour- able position or otherwise, a question arises as to the propriety of attempting to overcome the rigidity, and restore motion. When anchy- losis is osseous and complete, the question may be unhesitatingly answered in the negative. Disruption of the osseous union could only be efl'ected by such violence as must inevitably reinduce the inflammatory process, probably of a grave kind, in a part whose power of control has been greatly impaired by previous and recent disease ; the process of disorganization advances anew, and the joint is lost. Still a question may arise, whether or not a joint thoroughly anchy- losed is beyond the reach of our remedial art. In the case of the elbow this is easily answered ; excision of that joint for anchylosis having been both frequently and most successfully resorted to in this city. In the case of the shoulder-joint, the mobihty of the scapula renders any inter- lerence unjustifiable ; in the case of the knee, rigidity being better there than mobihty, excision could not be of the slightest benefit. The case of the hip-jomt alone remains for consideration. All the textures enjoying a coniph.tf. immunity from inflammatory disease and tendency, may not nunsion be made immediately beneath the stiffened joint, the bone ere sawn across, and the case subsequently treated so as to establish a