814 rOKElGN BODIES IN THE PHAIiYNX. into tlie month, may be swallowed cither intentionally or accidentally and from their size or form, or from a combination of both peculiarities' may become arrested in their passage downwards ; even when no ab- normal contraction exists at any part of the canal. Substances of some size and solidity, if they pass into the bag of the pharynx, arc likely to rest at the narrowest part of the gullet, viz., the lowest part of the pharynx or upper part of the oesophagus—a little above or nearly opposite the cricoid cartilage. Those of a slim and spicular character, on the contrary — as needles, pins, lish bones, etc.—are more frequently entangled in the folds of the soft palate. Those foreigoi bodies, again, which produce ■ an impediment, partly by size, partly by their spicular form, if not arrested at the upper part of the oesophagus, may pass on- wards, and be stopped immediately above the diaplu-agm. While this is generally true, even bodies of large size may either spontaneously, or by the efforts of those who have attempted to render assistance to the patient, become disi^laced, and be secondarily arrested at the lower part of the canal. The symptoms present are general—to all cases ; and special, depending upon the form and size of the foreign body and the site it occupies. The patient complains that while eating he consciously swal- lowed the substance, which he felt arrested at a certain point; or while playing with, or holding in his mouth, or attempting to swallow for con- ceahnent or a wager, or as a juggling trick, some known body, it became > arrested in the passage. He can usually point to the spot, complaining of a constant localized pain there, and of increased suffering whenever he attempts to swallow. The effort to swallow may be efficient, and at- tended with convulsive contraction of the muscles of the face and neck when the bolus of food or mouthful of fluid passes the site of the obstnic-. tion ; or it may be ineffective, and followed by efforts at vomiting of a violent and convulsive kind. When the foreign body is large, and occupies, the upper part of the pharynx, suffocation is induced either from direct compression of the larynx, or by reflex irritation and spasm of its muscles. Should the foreign body occupy tlie upper part of the oesophagus, the direct compression of the trachea wliich it produces may be attended with more or less urgent difficulty of breathing, but not so great as in the instance of a foreign body in the upper part of the pharynx. Smaller and u-regu- larly-shaped bodies, arrested lower down, do not usually interfere with respiration, neither do they altogether interrupt deglutition, but usually admit of the swallowing of fluids and soft pappy food. These poiute and irregular bodies are, however, attended by more serious risks than any other;—wounding the canal, inciting ulceration and perforation oi its walls, followed by extrusion into surrounding parts, and the formatio" of diffuse suppuration in the neighbouring textm-es, and all its attendan evils, or even by fatal hemorrhage, should any vessel of importance b< implicated in the ulceration. When the foreign matter is lodged in th( pharynx, it is within reach of the finger; and this is the best instru nient by which to ascertain the exact site and nature of the lodgment— as well as the best guide to the forcejDS in extraction. Even a minu'^ substance entangled in the fauces causes nmch discomfort; and besid if not removed, will probably induce a certain amount of the inflanima" tory process. But the larger and solid substances, lodged lower down