THE INDURATED OR TRUE CHANCRE. 1150 elevated above the suiTOunding parts, constituting one form of the ulcus elevatum of the older pathologists. On the muct)us membrane of tlie vagina, the carunculae, the verge of the anus, the glans penis, and cervix uteri, the induration is but slightly developed; usuaDy assuming the superficial form, and in most cases rapidly disappearing after the sore has healed. The dense cartilaginous form, on the other hand, is usually very persistent; remaining long after the cicatrization of the initial sore sometimes even for so protracted a period as thirty years. When it has disappeared, a brown stain or macula usually occupies its site; and when this by degrees fades away, an unnaturally white mark permanently indi- cates the situation. The indurated chancre is rarely multiple ; there being in the same patient commonly but one sore; and when more exist they are all traceable to the same date, and are marked by a like progress. The degree of induration may, how- ever, vary in each. The indurated sore is not sur- Fig. 338. rounded by any inflammatory areola. There is, however, another characteristic of it; and that is the certain presence of a multiple non-inflammatory glandular enlargement and induration occu- pying the neighbouring lymphatic chains. The commencement of this form of disease is involved to a large extent in obscurity. That this should be the case need be no wonder, when we consider that, as a rule, the indurated chancre cannot be arti- ficially inoculated into the textures of the indi\adual suflFering from it, or of another who either has, or has formerly sufiered from, the syphilitic infection. Unlike the soft chancre, it seems to have a real period of incubation. The length of this has not yet, however, been satisfactorily determined ; some assigning to it a few days, and others admitting so many as forty. More careful consideration tends to the conclusion that from ten days to a fortnight, or even three weeks, constitutes the common limits. In some cases a small crack, fissure, or abrasion is observed after suspicious connection; this heals and gives no fiirther annoyance; but after the lapse of days or weeks, when all has been forgotten and the patient's anxiety set at rest, the fissure or abrasion is covered with a crust, and the texture in which it is situated becomes indurated and elevated in the form of a papule or tubercle. The variety in the extent of the induration seems to depend upon the size of the original solution of continuity ; sometimes resembling a papule, sometimes a pea, at other times covering a surface as large as a sliilling. In those last-mentioned cases, however, it will generally be found that the sore has extended its limits ; its original surface having been much less. In extending, the induration precedes the ulceration, and always limits its progress. The tardily developed true indurations, which some writers have described, do not really occur. In cases where they have been supposed to have formed, the induration has existed from the commencement, and has only become more pronounced and visible by the persistence of the sore, and the delay which occurs in the commencement of the healing process. The ulceration, which is always superficial, sometimes resembles an Fig. 338. An indurated sore on a common site.—After Acton.