491 IIYDIIOPHOBIA. Hydrophuhia.—The saliva of a dog, labouring under such a disease, s supposed to contain a virus, the introduction of which by inoculation 3 capable of producing Hydrophobia in the human subject; a disease 0 termed, not because there is truly a dread of water, but because, in nan the most prominent symptom is inability to swallow, and unwill- iicniess to attempt to swallow, any fluid whatever. Two points in regard o°the vu'us of Eabies are peculiar. First, a long period of latency ixists; symptoms of the disease, in man, seldom shewing themselves ooner than from the thirtieth to the fortieth day after inoculation. Matured zymosis seems to be essential to production of the full influence )f the poison. Second, inoculation is not invariably followed by the intoward symptoms. A number of people having been bitten by the lame animal, a few only—sometimes but one, sometimes none at all— ■aU victims to hydrophobia. The virus of rabies is understood to be originally produced—but low, is uncertain—in the dog, fox, wolf, jackall, cat, and badger; and ■rem them to be communicable by inoculation to many others. But it ;till remains an open question, whether or not these in their turn are capable of reproducing the disease; although the preponderance of jvidence and behef, no doubt, leans toward the affirmative. The most dangerous mode of injury is by bite, on a part unpro- tected ; as the hand or face. A bite through clothes is less formidable ; iuasmuch as it is probable that the greater part of the virulent saliva has been entangled in the exterior of the cloth, and does not reach the |i;70und. But, on the other hand, a bite is not essential. There may have previously existed a scratch, sore, or open surface of any kind, and fiom the licking of this by a rabid animal inoculation will be at least jequally certain. The virus is inert on sound skin; as well as when |fcaken internally, without breach of surface in the mucous passages. Some authorities on veterinary surgery have been bold enough to ieny that hydrophobia (as designated) ever occurs in the human subject; )eheving that what we term such is a simulation, of a nervous character, induced by dread and alarm. But this fancy is sufficiently disproved 3y the fact, that children have been victims of the disease; as well as idults who, from ignorance of the very existence of any such malady, jpould not have been influenced by the mental condition supposed. There ■^s no doubt, that by anxiety of mind a nervous simulation may be ■jiduced, especially in hysterical females; but this can readily be distin- guished from the real disease, and is of an altogether different character IS to its result; seldom, if ever, proving fatal. Further, the mind may ^ave some power to hasten the accession of the true disease, and perhaps l^ven to cause its aggravation. The period of incubation—^that is, the period between the bite and Accession of the direful symptoms—is, in man, invariably long; as Jlready stated. Its average may be said to range between five and ten |veeks. According to some, even years may elapse. But a fallacy must •iurely have existed in such cases ; an intercurrent injury or inoculation laving doubtless taken place, though of so slight a nature as to have IjiUecl to attract attention. The symptoms of the disease are generally liivided mto two kinds ; tlie premonitory and actual.