161 THE FIBRO-CELLULAK TUMOUli. chronic mammary tumours of Sir A. Cooper, are of tliis character. And so are many growths in the thyroid and parotid glands. Similar tumours however are found, not as mere enlargements of existing glandular structure, whether lymphatic, vascular, or secretory; but altogether separate and distinct from such primary texture—^new formations. Their growth is slow and painless; lobular often ; firm but not hard, and somewhat elastic ; they are loosely connected to the surround- ing parts by a delicate cyst or capsule, through which they are sparingly suppHed with blood-vessels. " On section they commonly appear lobed, or intersected with partitions of connective tissue, and are pale, grayish —or yellowish white; in some specimens looking translucent and gUstening, in others opaque; in nearly all acinous or glandular" (Paget). Sometimes small cavities are found, filled with serous fluid. The microscopic structure imitates, in its essential features, that of the glands in or near which they are severally found; but is often rudimental, or imperfect, or degenerate. Treatment.—This is one of the few tumours which may not only be retarded in its growth, but even made to disappear by absorption—as by pressure, friction, and suitable constitutional means. And for this reason, mainly, it is here placed first in the classification. Failing absorption, recourse is had to the knife. 2. The " Fibro-cellular" tumour of Paget, the " Simple Tumour" of others, is composed mainly of tissue closely resembling the ordinary areolar, usually more or less embryonic or imperfect. As an out- growth it may form in connection with mucous membrane—a polypus; in connection with the skin—a pendulous tumour. The site of this formation may be either deep or superficial. Its growth is slow and painless. The bulk is extremely various. Firm, yet somewhat elastic to the touch, like the preceding, it is usually oval or round, and often lobular. Exposed by incision, it is found loosely connected to the surrounding parts by a delicate capsule of areolar tissue. On section it " usually presents a shining, pale yellowish, or serous-coloured basis, intersected by opaque white bands, moderately firm, succulent, and highly elastic" (Paget). Treatment—It is just possible that some of these tumours, as in the case of the preceding variety, are capable of being removed by discussion, while yet recent, and scarcely removed from their first or nascent stage. The part is to be placed and kept in a state of repose. By moderate but repeated leeching from the vicinity of the part, the morbid nutritive process is sought to be stayed; and then, by counter-irritation, and stimulation of absorption, gradual retrocession is patiently expected. Gentle blistering may be employed; or iodine, in the form of ointment or solution; or mercury, in ointment; or pressure; or plasters of gal- banum, ammoniac, mercury, or other discutients. At the same time, the state of the general health should be seen to ; and iodine may be admi- nistered internally. The local stimulation is proceeded with warily, lest excess ensue, and the tumour grow more rapidly than before. When the means above mentioned have been tried and foiled, extir- pation by the knife is to be had recomrso to, at a yet early period; before M