DISLOCATION WITH FRACTURE. 937 ot' the posterior subacromial region, while the head of the bone is felt ami seen projecting forwards beyond the level of the point of the o.racoid process. Wlion the long tendon of the biceps is torn, or ilisplaced from the bicipital groove to a position over the lesser tubercle, and the head of the humerus escapes upwards, in contact with the ae iomion, and projects outwards and forwards, the lesion is noted by ^ of power in the biceps, by pain in the seat of injury, and by the 1 uliar deformity attendant on the upwai'd displacement of the head of jiiio bone. Keduction is effected easily; in fact the manipulation required for iiagnosis generally succeeds in producing replacement; the difficulty often remaining, however, in retaining the head of the bone in its natural posi- ;ion. A pad in the axilla, with iiexion of the forearm, while the arm is jarxied across the chest, supported from the elbow in a sling, and bound ;n to the side by a bandage, which includes the lower part of the arm md the chest, is all that can be done when the displacement forwards 5xists. If the shift is upwards and outwards, the hand should be lupported, while the elbow is permitted to hang loose, so as to allow ;he weight of the arm to depress the head of the bone to its normal eveL I Dislocation of the Head of the Humerus complicated with Fracture. I—The fracture in these circumstances may involve the scapula, or the lumerus, or both bones. When the scapula suffers, the anterior lip mt lower margin of the glenoid cavity is usually the part affected. I lave seen a case of this kind where the dislocation was intracoracoid; ■he fracture was not detected during life, though from the impossibility ■f effecting retention its existence was suspected; and after death the line If fracture was found to pass obliquely from above downwards, and from Idthout inwards, breaking off the glenoid surface, and the portion of lone into which the long head of the biceps is inserted. The symptoms ■resent are those of dislocation (subcoracoid or subglenoid), with possibly lie presence of crepitus when the reduction is being effected, or when WoB parts are manipulated in examining the injured shoulder; so soon, Bowever, as reduction is completed, the head of the bone becomes sponta- neously again displaced, and on careful examination the broken fragment ■lay even be felt from the armpit, when the fingers are forced upwards ■> the axillary costa of the scapula. Treatment should consist in reduc- ■on, and careful and continued retention, by means of a pad in the ■dlla, and a sling and bandage confining the elbow to the side. This fcparatus should be worn for several weeks ; and in most cases the Rsttlt, so far as usefulness of the arm is concerned, is satisfactory, although Bie flattening of the deltoid region posteriorly usually remains, and perfect Brcumduction is not restored. I Fracture of the greater tuberosity of the humerus is attended, as we »ve already seen (p. 936), with modified symptoms of subcoracoid or Btracoracoid dislocation, lliere is no flattening beneath the posterior •argin of the acromion, the elbow is not rotated outwards, nor is abduc- ■on of the. arm marked as in dislocation. The deltoid region is increased m transverse width. In these cases, probably, dislocation first takes ■ace, with the posterior inter-tubercular Une lying over the anterior