TEEATMENT OF SCIEEHUS. 181 Fig. 71. If it be true that the elementary cells of such growths are capable of insidiously developing themselves in surrounding textures, without mani- festing their presence by any change recognisable by the eye or touch, it becomes very plain how perilous must be the induction of any excite- ment by stimulation, in any way, or with whatever object in view; the cells are ah-eady multiplying, perhaps in considerable numbers, within the connective tissue elements, even to a considerable distance from the main tumour; and, on the removal of that, even by wide incision, new develop- ment may quickly form from these structural elements to take its place. This pathological inference would seem to be favoured by the clinical fact, that after removal of scirrhus by operation, especially from the breast, the usual mode of return, at the original site, is not by the formation of a single tumour as before ; but by the appearance of numerous, small, stony, and painful kernels, so superficial as to seem integumentary ; after a time uniting to form a confluent mass, which ulcerates and otherwise advances untowardly, in the ordinary way. At the same time, the pro- posal that the microscope should be a constant portion of the surgeon's arma- mentarium in the operating theatre, when a tumour is the subject of operation, re- ceives no support from carefully con- ducted pathological research ; for the extension of the morbid cell multiplica- tion of a cancerous type within the con- nective tissue does not necessarily affect equally the general surface of the wound, but extends preferentially along the minute lymphatics, the neurilemma of nerves, and in the connective tissue ele- ments which exist around blood-vessels, in muscular sheaths, and witliin the tex- tures of muscles — requiring too care- fully conducted research and time to demonstrate their presence. Of late, attempts have been made to effect a cure by means of com- pression, steadily and uniformly applied. Arnott's apparatus accomplishes the maintenance of such pressure very admirably, and, as already stated, may diminish general bulk by absorption of the ordinary inflammatory products. It may also retard the growth of the tumour itself; but in few cases, if any, may actual cure be looked for. If employed so as to excite formative action in the part, or extension of the disease, or adliesion of the mass to surrounding parts of importance, wMch cannot afterwards be removed along with the tumours, harm must ensue, as above shewn. Eubbing the part may diminish bulk, in the same way as pressure; but, in other respects, is obviously not so safe an application. That a scirrhous or other malignant gi-owth should be dispelled and cured by systematic rubbing, is of course altogether visionary—or worse. Congelation of the affected part, by means of pounded ice and salt, often Fig. 71. Scin-hus ; secoiidaiy. An example of the numerous nodulated tumours, which often form in the cicatrix of the former growth. One is ulcerated, in the site of the mammilla.