TREATMENT OF COMPOUND FllAGTURE. 546 distinction to a common horse cart, or s[)ring van, or carriage, lias beeu the agent in producing the injury, we need not doubt tliat the amount of injury within the skin will of necessity be such as to more than justify resort to amputation. The same is true in the majority of compound fractures produced by gunshot wounds ; especially when inflicted with the conical bullet, and more particularly when the thigh is the part injured. When, on the other hand, circumstances are favourable, and it in determined to save the limb if possible—reduction is to be eifected, carefully, gently, immediately ; and with due attention to muscular relaxation by position, as in the simple form of injury. If fracture be oblique, and a sharp end of the bone protrude to some distance through a comparatively limited opening in the integument, difficulty is not unlikely to be experienced in effecting the desired replacement; and a question will naturally arise as to whether the wound is to be enlarged or the bone abbreviated. In general, the latter alternative is preferable ; for, cceteris paribus, the smaller the integumental wound the less the hazard. The projecting portion, therefore, is to be removed, by saw or bone-pliers, to the requisite extent; and, sometimes, to effect this, extension of the wound to a certain degree may be found necessary. Where the bone can be accurately adjusted without the removal of any such extent of bone as implies a considerable hiatus, our care is directed to the integu- mental injury ; which, having been brought neatly together, when at all approaching to the incised in character, is treated for adhesion. Stitches should be avoided, if possible; the preferable retentive agent being adhesive plaster or collodion. And when the wound is very limited, scarcely exceeding a pimcture in dimensions, the dressing should he made to cover it completely, so as wholly to exclude atmospheric air; thus rendering immediate union very probable. It is obviously a great matter, if, in the course of the first two or three days, we can succeed by such means in converting a compound into the simple form of injury. But when the wound is plainly bruised, torn, or of such a form that adhesion is impossible, water-dressing is applied in the ordinary way, as suitable for granulation. At first water-dressing is cold, and kept con-: tinuously so; for the purpose of allaying and moderating the inflamma- tory access. The method of irrigation is often very suitable. Eetentive apparatus is applied in the same way as in simple fracture; but with especial care to avoid imdue motion, as well as undue pressure or constriction at any part. And the spHnts and bandages should also be so constructed and arranged, as to leave the Avound capable of being readily exposed, for the purpose of inspection and dressing, without any undoing of the general apparatus. For this puipose skeleton Avii-e splints will be found very useful; and, to afford graduated support to the limb during the progress of suppuration, the many-tailed bandage, or a series of slips of bandage, is preferable to the common roller; at aU. events, m the neighbourhood of the injury. At first, antiphlogistic regimen is more especially necessary than in simple fracture ; both the likelihood and the hazard of inflammatory excess being greater. And, should this threaten in a decided manner, general bleeding, antimony, and other active anti- phlogistics—purgatives excepted—may be demanded ; unless contra- indicated by age, or other debility of system; yet, in severe cases,