1338 DIVISION OF TENDONS. slowly, it is better to. effect the required change of relative position soon after section, leaving the hiatus to be filled up by new matter. In tlie congenital form, the operation should be had recourse to at as early a period as possible. Extreme cases in tlie elderly adult, on the other hand, should be regarded as irremediable. The form of the bones has in them undergone such change that it is impossible to restore the foot to its normal shape and position. Tenotomy will fail to efifect a cure, and may do harm, for a time at least, by impairing very seriously the acquired usefulness of the limbs. In Talipes Equinus, division of the tendo Achillis is usually sufficient. In the simple form, if the patient can be persuaded to walk about, no appa- ratus is required for subsequent rectification of the deformity ; and as in this case change in the articulating surfaces of the tibia and astragalus exists to a very limited degree, even in cases of old standing, there is not the same objection to division of the tendo Achillis in adults that exists in the instance of the lateral deformities. In Talipes equino-varus, division of the tendo Achillis may suffice, along with the use of mechanical aid. But, very frequently, it is necessary also to divide the tendons of the tibialis posticus, longus digitorum, and flexor longus poUicis. In confirmed cases, the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius poUicis must be added to the list. By some the tendo Achillis, tibialis anticus, and posticus, are all divided at one operation; rectification of both the lateral and perpen- dicular deformation being attempted at once. This, in the sUghter forms, may prove effectual; but, certainly, in a well-marked case, the varus part of the deformity should first be completely overcome, before proceeding to the treatment of the equinus. In Talipes Valgus, the peronei are divided along with the tendo Achillis. In Talipes Calcaneus, the tibialis anticus is cut, along with the extensors of the toes. The results of operative treatment in the two last forms are not usually satisfactory. Fortunately they are of rare and exceptional occurrence. The tendo Achillis is divided a little above its insertion into the calcaneum. The patient having been placed in a prone position, the limb having been steadied, and the foot having been bent, a tenotomy knife or needle is introduced obliquely; and, by bringing its edge or point on the rigid tendon, the fibres are cut from without inwards ; an assistant flexing the foot gently, so as to assist in the division. This having been completed, the instrument is withdrawn, and a compress is applied to the aperture. Or division may be reversed; from within outwards ; but there is thus a risk, with an unsteady patient or untrained assistant, of accidentally wounding the integument, Tlie tibialis posticus may be divided, either above the ankle, or near its insertion in the navicular bone ; in general, the former site is preferred ; at least, when in equino-varus the lateral deformity is first made the subject of operation— for, till the tendo AchiUis has been cut as a prehminai-y measure, it is impossible to develope the tendon of the tibiahs posticus below and in front of the internal malleolus, so as to effect its division. As the tendon of the tibialis posticus cannot be felt above the malleolus, its section is effected through a knowledge of its anatomical relation. The posterior margin of the tibia, from half an inch to an inch and a quarter above the internal malleolus having been made out by pressure with the nail, ghding