991 ARTIFICIAL ANUS. ccecmn, or vermiform process, and, acting as an exciting cause of abscess, effect their own escape. Artificial Anus. By this term is meant an unnatural outward opening of the intestinal canal, whence ftecal contents are more or less copiously discharged. It may be the result of wound, of abscess and ulceration, or of sloughing conseqiient on strangulated hernia. By plastic product the open portion of bowel is retained in contact with the abdominal parietes; and the following condition of parts becomes established. The orifice of the upper or gastric portion remains abundantly patent, and not unfrequently troublesome prolapsus of its lining membrane occurs; the orifice of the lower or rectal portion contracts, is not patulous, and recedes from the ex- ternal surface; the two portions have a dense septum interposed between them—composed mainly of the two contiguous portions of the coats of the bowel; and this becomes more and more solid, and more and more op- posed to restoration of the normal flow of the intestinal contents. Out- wardly the abdominal parietes are usually distended into a funnel-shaped cavity, whose apex is at the integument, whose base surrounds the in- testinal breach, and within whose cavity fseculent matter tends to accu- mulate. The integumental opening is red, everted, prominent, and surrounded by excoriation. The dangers and difiiculties of such cases depend very much on the site and extent of the intestinal opening. If this be large and near the upper part of the tube, death by inanition can scarcely fail to occur; chyle running so much to waste. If, on the contrary, the opening be in the large bowel, nutrition may be sufiiciently maintained, and the result will probably be one more of annoyance than of danger. Treatment is in the first instance palliative. Such food is taken as is easily digested; and the bowels, by diet, and medicine, if need be, are kept " soft and easy." By external support—by compress and bandage, or by the adaptation of a suitable truss—outward escape from the upper orifice is moderated, if not altogether prevented, and protrusion of the mucous membrane is opposed. And the ordinary means are employed, to obviate excoriation of the surrounding integument. The outer open- ing may contract and heal, the funnel-shaped cavity may close, and the normal flow may be restored. But much more frequently such is not the case j and further interference by our art is required. The two main obstacles to cure plainly are—projection of the septum, and retraction and contraction of the lower intestinal orifice. The latter state is to be opposed by the occasional introduction of tubes or tents, gradually en- larged, whereby the normal calibre may be restored. The septum is to be got rid of, by the gradual process of ulceration. Physic of New York first suggested the accomplisliment of this, by a stout ligature passed by means of a needle through the textures of the eperon of the septum. Dupuytren's forceps may, however, be employed more safely for this purpose;—one blade passed into each orifice, the instrument closed and locked, the one blade accurately fitting into a groove in the other, while the degree of pressure is regulated by the screw at the handle. The pressure is at first applied lightly and temporarily; lest excess of the