509 T]-;rANUS. resulted from llie first operation proves unsatisfactory; in consequence of sloughing or ulceration of the soft parts, or very extensive exfoliation of the bono. The occurrence of tetanus nia^'-, under some circumstances, perhaps, ho held to warrant amputation ; if so, the operation should he performed at an early period of the disease. In almost all the surgical operations and manipulations connected with gunshot wounds, the use of chloroform is of vast benefit ; not only a.=!suaging pain, but also modifying the condition of shock, and so imparting to the system a greater tolerance of the operation, both present and prospective. « Tetanus. This is a disease of the true spinal nervous system ; the cerebrum being xmaffected, or only implicated at a very advanced period of the case, when delirium or stupor may supervene shortly before death—as in many other affections primarily unconnected with the cerebral centres. The characteristic symptom is true tonic spasm and permanent rigidity of the voluntary muscles. According to the extent and predominance of the muscles affected, various terms are applied in connection with this disease. When, e.g., the muscles of the neck and face alone are involved, fixedness of the jaw is the most prominent symptom—hence the vernacular term of Lock-jaw—and this condition is technically called Trismus. When the muscles of the back are chiefly affected, bending the body backwards, like a bow, until in extreme cases the resting points are the heels and occiput, it is said to be a case of Opisthotonos ; M'hile Emprostliotonos—of infrequent occurrence—denotes the opposite condition, characterized by predominant affection of the muscles on the anterior aspect of the trunk. Bending to either side is termed Pleuro- thotonos—a very rare form of the affection. Strictly applied, the term Tetanus denotes involvement of all classes of muscles, without prepon- derance of action in any ; whereby the body is rendered rigid and straight. The ordinary use of the word, however, denotes the disease in general, and includes all its varieties. Whatever form occurs, the access and progress of the disease may be either Acute or Chronic ; the former a very formidable malady, seldom admitting of cure, tending to involve the whole frame, and unfortunately the more frequent in occurrence ; the latter milder in all its phases, more inclined to be partial, and much more amenable to treatment. The disease is also said to be either Traumatic or Idiojoathic; the former following wound, or other injury, and usually acute ; the latter of spon- taneous origin, without any external and assignable cause, and usually chronic. The most frequent form is that which is traumatic and acute ; and the symptoms and character of this may be taken as typical of the disease in general. It is more frequent in hot climates than in temperate; in military than in civil practice; in children and the middle-aged, than in youth and the far advanced in years ; and according to some authors, in inen than in women. The existence of a wound is not essential; it has