KlIINOrLASTlCS. 740 to prevent circular contraction of the nostrils so formed from occluding fcke apertures. ^ i i • i . • Certain precautions are always to be attended to m such rhmoplastic iroceediugs. As already stated, the flap should at first seem far too iXTcre; if °neatly fitting at the time, it is sure to prove insufficient after- ffaxds. Twisting is effected very gently and carefully, lest strangxilation snsue ; and to prevent tliis as much as possible, some advise that the ,ap should be dissected from the supra-orbital region, and not from the lentre of the forehead, as thus less displacement Avill be required from ts normal direction. Should engorgement occur, relief is to be obtained ■or the passively congested vessels, by punctures, or by drawing blood rem the still raw edges. Erysipelas may supervene; if it does, the ransplanted pai-t need not be exempted from puncture or incision, if Fiff. 268. Fig. 269.' [lese be deemed necessary ; for experience declares it to possess at least equal tolerance of such remedial treatment as the original textures. "When peculiar circumstances render the ordinary operation imprac- cable, the flap may be taken from the hairy scalp, as practised by Dief- abach; the hair having been previously removed by means of the |chloride of mercury in solution ; and the flap being connected with a 3g narrow strip of the integuments of the forehead. When consolidation of the new alse and apex has been duly effected, the columna has not been formed along with the nose, it may be ie according to the method first proposed by ]\Ir. Listen.* This sthod was preferred by him because in most cases the centre of the * Practical Surgery, p. 253. Fig. 268. Plan of flap for a new nose, according to the original Indian method ; Jumna, apex, and alaj being all made at once. About one-lialf tlie natural size. Fig. 269. Plan of flap for new nose, as modified by Mr. Liston. The apex and provided for ; the columna to be brought, subsequently, from the upper lip. le-half the natural size.