1048 TREATMENT OF HEMORRHOIDS. gangrenous. At each stool, it is common for blood to be lost; either in a trickling stream, or small arterial jets taking place from one or more points of the surface—more especially if the tumours are constricted Usually, the patient gets into the habit of replacing the prolapsed tumours after each evacuation ; and, during the intervals, if the growtlis are small, or there is but one hemorrhoid, he may sustain no great in- convenience in the part. If the loss of blood, however, be habitual— even though but a small quantity escape at each time—^the system is certain to give way under it; the patient becoming thin, weak, pale, and sallow, dyspeptic, annoyed with tinnitus aurium, giddiness, and palpita- tions. If the tumours are bu.lky, and often protruded, they are always in a more or less excited state; there are pain, swelling, heat, and dis- comfort, discharge of mucous and puriform fluid; and these, superadded to the effects of loss of blood, speedily undennine the frame. In extreme cases, the whole bowel is relaxed; and prolapsus ani accom- panies and untowardly complicates the hemorrhoidal state. At any time, the inflammatory process may extend from the abnormal structure, and seize the bowel—producing rectitis, probably of an aggravated form. Thence abscess and fistula may result; or, under a minor degree of disease, simple organic stricture may form. The urinary organs sympa- thise greatly, during rectal excitement connected with piles—whether these be external or internal. To allow such an affection to follow its own course, is thus seen to be dangerous to both part and system. Treatment is general and local, palliative and radical. The general treatment is to be pursued in. aU cases ; regulating the bowels, looking to the liver, attending to regimen ; and hemorrhage may be restrained by the internal exhibition of gallic acid, oil of turpentine, or other suitable astringent. If palliation only be intended, the local treatment will consist of careful reduction, after each evacuation of the bowel, and the occasional injection of some astringent fluid; such as solutions of rhatany, zinc, sulphate of iron, matico, oak-bark, or tannin ; or the last named remedy may be very conveniently and efiiciently applied in the form of suppository. If excitement occur, then come antiphlogistics, anodynes, and attention to the bladder. The radical treatment consists of removal by ligature. In the case of the solid genuine tumour, scissors may be used with im- punity. But such formations constitute a small minority of internal piles. The great majority consist of vascular tissue, almost resembhng an erectile tumour in its tendency to bleed when wounded. To cut them out, were on each occasion to endanger life by hemorrhage; not only because the parts are vascular in themselves; but also because the interior of the rectum is favourable for continued oozing of blood, and iU adapted for the application of pressure or other direct hemostatics. Consequently, deligation is preferred. The operation by ligature is thus accompHshed. The patient having had the bowels freely opened, is placed as for the treatment of fistula. By previous straining at stool—renewed at the time of operation, if necessary—the tumours are made to j)rotrude to the full; an assistant separating the nates. If the form be at all pendulous, it is well to seize the fundus by means of a large volsella, and over this to apply a strong