885 TllAClIEOTOMY. Fig. 301 his sido, so as to render the wound dependent, and favourable to the outward escape of lluids. For many liours—hut more especially during the first few—the patient must be carefully Avatched, lest the tube become obstructed by mucus ; and this is from time to time to be cleared away, by a probe armed with lint or sponge, or by a feather; or better still, the double camila should be nsed fi-om the first, admitting of one portion remaining in the wound, while the other is withdrawn and cleaned ^ occasionally. Such atten- tion is particularly ne- cessary, as formerly stated, if the patient have fallen asleep after the opera- tion. These precautions are also very essential in the case of young children, and when the operation has been performed on account of croup ; the thick glutinous mucus, wliich continues for days to be expec- torated, requiring especial care in effecting its complete removal. When expectoration is attempted, it is necessary to diminish the aperture of the ordinary tube very consider- ably, by temporary appHcation of the finger; so that the expired air may be expelled forcibly. At first, this narrowing is made by the surgeon ; but soon the jjatient be- comes an adept in the simple manipulation. Should he be too weak to expectorate, it is well to attempt extraction of the mucus by suction ; by the adaptation of a syringe and flexible catheter, or by the mouth of the surgeon or of an assistant, when the case is urgent. As already seen, in some cases the tube may be withdrawn, and the wound permanently closed, after a few days or weeks; in other cases, normal respiration can never be restored, and the tube must be worn during the remainder of Hfe. And in these latter, it is truly surprising how httle inconvenience is sustained ; respu-ation becomes easy and silent, and even the voice may be regained, so far as to admit of the patient fulfilling the ordinary duties and customs of society. In cases of old standing, in which the tube is permanently retained, the double canula is specially useful; one portion being removed from time to time, for the purpose of being cleaned, while the other remains, keeping the canal constantly free. To the orifice, too, it may be well to attach a valve, which opening to the full in inspiration leaves the whole space free, but shutting in expiration forms a smaller aperture suitable for expectoration. The prominent danger ot the operation is by hemorrhage, cbiefly Kg. 301. Cajuila, as recommended by Dr. Gairdner. From a to & the canula ; c, the end of tlu; plug, projected ; d, the handle of the plug. The plug is of course ithdrawu so soon as the canula has entcrod the windj)ipc. iig. !i02. Ordinary canula ; a, in prolihi; h, transverse section of orilioo. Fig. 302.