FKACTURES AT TIIE ANKLE. 1318 foot is cflected. There is immediate lameness, and the patient may he sensible of something having snapped in tlie leg; the foot is found turned out; and, if progression is attempted, the patient leans on the inside of the foot, so as to support himself on the tibia, A marked depression is observed on the outside of the limb, at the site of frac- ture ; and, on replacing the foot, and maldng rotatory movement of it, crepitus may be distinctly perceived. The deltoid ligament is rup- tured ; and the end of the tibia projects, more or less, from the cor- responding surface of the astragalus ; not unfrequently it is moved forwards on the dorsum of the foot. Treatment is by Dupuytren's splint; a light piece of wood, in brcadtb proportioned to the limb, and of length, sufficient to extend from the knee to a few inches beyond the ankle. It is applied on tlie inside of the limb; provided with a pad— considerably thicker at the ankle than at the upper part. To a hole at the upper part of the splint a linen roller is attached; and application of this is begun at the ankle—the bandage being occasionally turned over notches made for this purpose in the distal extremity of the splint, so as to maintain complete inversi(m of the foot, and consequent apposition of the fragments. The more thoroughly the foot is turned in over tlie malleolar pad as a fulcrum, the more sure are we of accurate readj ustment. In effecting reduction, the knee is flexed, so as to relax the muscles of the leg; and care is taken that replacement of the tibia is effected not only in the lateral but also in the antero-posterior direction. When the foot is forcibly twisted inwards, the extremity of the external malleolus may be torn ofi". In such circumstances, the foot usually regains its natural position, and no deformity is observable. The fracture is then apt to be mistaken for a sprain, and hence to be overlooked. The history of the case, however, and the pain and crepitus on manipulation of the part, will sufficiently indicate the site of the injury. In this case, simple side-splints should be applied, and the limb kept at rest, either laid on its back or upon its outer side. Compound Fractures of the leg require no special notice. They are, in general, best treated on the double-incKned plane ; for the wound, being usually either in front, or on a lateral aspect, may be completely exposed, and frequently inspected and dressed, without the limb being at all disturbed, or the retaining apparatus undone. Fractures at tlie AnMe. Fracture of the Internal Malleolus is usually by direct violence, but may be produced by the same accident Avhich gives rise to fracture of the fibula—viz., twisting of the foot outwards. The fracture may be either transverse or oblique. In the former case, displacement is marked and considerable; the foot is dislocated outwards ; presenting its inner margin to the ground. In the latter case, the foot usually inchnes in- wards ; but in some cases the mobility of the malleolus alone indicates what has occurred. Sometimes, instead of only the malleolus being separated and the fracture extending into the joint, the fracture includes the whole thickness of the lower end of the tibia; passing obliquely upwards. Eeplaccment having been elTected, by manipulation, while