AFFECTIONS OF MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 266 Wliile the serous tissue is especially liable to produce abuormal product, both serous and plastic, and Avliile also the formation of ]ius is not nncommon in connection with altered membrane and dropsical accumulation, the higher results of the inflammatory process—ulceration and gangrene—are fortunately rare. The latter is seldom observed unless when extending on a large scale, and in an acute form, from other parts ; against the former, serous membranes are specially endowed, like all fibrous tissues. The connection of diseases of the serous membranes with surgical practice is very apparent, in relation to wounds and other injuries of the head, chest, and abdomen, and in the management of hydrothorax, empyema, and ascites. The treatment of acute disease is conducted on ordinary antiphlogistic principles. The Inflammatory Process affecting Mucous Membrane. The mucous is liable to inflammatory change, perhaps still more fre- quently than the serous membrane. The results are more various. Simply inflaming, the membrane is congested and swoln; at first dry, afterwards pouring out an increased and vitiated secretion. The submucous areolar tissue is occupied by serous or fibrinous product; and, in the more severe cases, extravasations of blood are sometimes found. The surface of the membrane is altered, becoming rough and spongy; the papillas are enlarged and prominent; and the follicles are swoln, with diminished orifices. Sometimes the general swelling, by submucous effusion, is very great; and may be productive of the most serious consequences, as in oedema glottidis. The increased secretion soon changes from the simply mucous character; becoming opaque and glutinous, afterwards puriform, and ultimately purulent. In acute and severe cases, such discharge is often of a greenish colour, and may be mixed with blood; as in gonorrhoea. Sometimes the discharge contains much blood, or may even seem entirely sanguineous ; as in acute cystitis —where, however, there is often ulceration. Intense exacerbation of the affection may temporarily arrest all dischtirge. A spreading inflammatory process, of an erysipelatous character, is not unfrequent; arising, apparently, from the same predisposing and exciting causes as ordinary erysipelas ; and, in fact, often associated with that disease. It, too, is liable to be attended with great swelUng ; and may extend over a large amoiuit of membrane. Mucous surfaces are not so prone to produce plastic material, or " false membrane," as the serous are. And yet, in certain parts, it is not tmcommon; as in the air passages, especially the larynx and trachea From the bladder, too, false membrane, even of large extent, has been thrown off; and from the lining of the intestines, similar productions are by no means unfrequent. Such formation, however, is sepai'ated from the membrane by viscid mucous secretion, and is seldom vascularized, or incorporated with the original tissue. It is sometimes patchy and thin, as in. Diphtherite; sometimes tlaick and tubular, as in croup, and tubular bronchitis. The serious consequences of such a product, in any part of the air passages, can be readily understood.