RADICAL CURE. 1030 period by the degree of thickening induced, and tlie original size of the dilated inguinal openings. There is seldom niucli discliarge; that from the lower opening is usually the more copious and pei'sistent. The part should be dressed daily with dry lint, charpie, water-dressing, or red lotion, as the condition of matters seenas to indicate—the compress and spica bandage being always continued till the parts liave soundly cica- trized. The patient may perhaps leave liis bed before this, and lie upon a couch, or even sit up. Walking about, however, tends to delay the healing process, and should not be permitted till all is cicatrized. Then, when the patient can bear it, a truss with the horseshoe pad should be carefully adjusted and Avorn for a longer or shorter period. Mr. AVood further practises variations in the wire operation to suit special conditions in cases coming under treatment. Thus he sometimes removes an elliptical portion of the redundant scrotal integument. In other cases, wliere the sac and liernial canal are unusually long, he secures a greater degree of upward traction upon the scrotal tissue and sac by forming the loop below instead of above. This is effected as follows :—the first puncture and withdrawal of the wire are executed as in the ordinary procedure, the needle is then passed behind the sac and m front of the cord, and the wire drawn through ; then, instead of unhooking the wire from the eye of the needle, he carries it armed up the canal, and through the fibrous tissue above the middle of Poupart's hgament on the outer side of the deep ring. The two free ends of the wire thus protrude at the upper opening, the loop hanging out below. As the ends are drawn upwards and outwards, the loop and the scrotal textures follow ; the wire therefore embraces and approximates, as its ends are twisted together or drawn over a wooden pad, the conjoined tendon and the middle of Poupart's HgamenL with the two pillars of the ring, compressing them against the superficial fascia of the scrotum and the sac which are drawn within the canal. In cases, again, where the openings are widely dilated, after the ends of the wire have been passed in the ordinary way, both ends are made to cross behind the sac and in front of the cord, one extremity being passed by the needle, then un- hooked, and the other withdrawn along mth it. Afterwards, the unarmed needle having been carried behind the inner pillar of the ring, the inner extremity of the wire is withdrawn along with it. The needle is then passed through the outer pillar of the ring, and the outer extremity of the wire withdrawn by its means. Twisting of the wire is conducted as usuaL Other modifications of this operation are also practised by Mr. Wood by means of pins with rectangular shanks; and are peculiarly suited to the radical treatment of congenital rupture in young children. These methods certainly exceed all others in ingenuity of contrivance and excellence of principle. They have been employed, however, during only four years, and are therefore hardly auihciently tested in practice to enable the profession to pronounce final judgment on tliem. In most patients, in the better ranks of life, a well-fitting truss is capable of supplying the deficiency in retentive power which exists in the walls of the abdomen. It is, therefore, chiefly in the Avorlcing classes and labouring men, that some such radical plan of treatment is required; and should