1277 PROLAPSUS OF THE UTERUS. of the pessary, and its shape. Different practitioners are in the habit of using different forms, and it not nnfrequently happens that after trying soveral, the patient herself is the best judge of what is most suitable. The ball pessary of boxwood is one of the most useful; the ring pessary IS often recommended to married women, but requires watching lest the cervix uteri pass through the ring and become strangulated there. Pes- saries more or less cup-shaped, and having a stem attached, are particu- larly applicable to those cases where the destruction of the perineum renders a bandage necessary. They have the advantage of not distending the whole vagina, as ball pessaries do, and thus preventing that tonic contraction of this canal, which has so much to do with the retention of the organ in its proper place. Of late, gutta percha has almost super- seded every other material in the manufacture of pessaries ; and the fiddle- shaped ring pessary made of gutta percha has proved specially advan- tageous in securing a satisfactory support of the uterus without pressing unduly upon the cervix, or on the anterior and posterior walls of the vagina. In some cases the wearing of the instrument eventually effects a cure ; but in others, dependent on relaxation, it may prevent that result; and in these it should not be used till other remedies have been tried in vain. In all cases, the utero-abdominal supporter of Hull, or some of its numerous modifications, is very useful; if no special cause exist to pre- vent the patient wearing it. By supporting partly the weight of the bowels, it hghtens the pressure upon the womb ; the padded under-strap, pressing firmly upwards on the perineum, counteracts the prolapse from below; and the machine gives general support and a feeling of security to the patient. Operative interference has been resorted to in aggravated cases, and not without some success ; it is most applicable to those not exposed to the risk of childbearing. The labia have been made raw, and adhesion between them effected, so as to occlude the vagina, excepting a small passage for the vaginal excretions. Episoraphy has also been successful; it consists in carefully paring off longitudinal slips of the iuucous mem- brane of the vagina, and uniting the edges of the wounds by the neces- sary number of interrupted sutures. When rupture of the perineum co-exists, a horse - shoe - like portion of mucous membrane should be removed from the vaginal orifice, the centre corresponding to the posterior fourchette; after which the raw surfaces should be brought into accurate apposition by means of wire sutures. Cauterization by the hot iron, or the mineral acids, has also been resorted to for the same purpose. In some cases, by the probe director or uterine sound introduced into the OS uteri, the cavity and cervix are found greatly elongated. When this is due to great enlargement of the cervix uteri, that part may be excised with the view of reducing the bulk of the protruding mass ; and the retention of what remains will thus be more readily effected. Finally, if reduction is impossible, a protecting and supporting truss must be adapted, after the manner of a suspensory bandage.