1133 GONORRHCEA. and swoln ; urine is passed in a small stream, sometimes forked, and with increasing heat and smarting ; the orifice of the urethra shows an increased secretion of clear watery mucus; then it becomes dry, more red and swoln, and painful; the stream of urine is more diminished, and the pain which accompanies it is intense ; then discharge returns— no longer limpid, but turbid and puriform—becoming more and more profuse, and ultimately seeming to consist of true pus ; sometimes of an orange tint, more commonly of a greenish colour. If the disease prove intense, there may be a considerable admixture of blood. Sometimes smai-t fever aflPects the system ; sometimes tliere is but little constitutional disturbance. The thighs, loins, and testicles, sympathize in a dull aching sensation. Such are the ordinary symptoms at the onset of the disease. But, in the course of its progress, serious additions may be made. 1. Gliordee may occur; that is, abnormal erection may take place; the penis be- coming bent like a bow—forming an arc of which the urethra is the chord—the convexity on the dorsal aspect—probably due to the inflam- matory change which has taken place in the corpus spongiosum, prevent- ing uniform expansion of its erectile texture. In some cases the corpus cavernosum upon one side is affected, then the' deformity is lateral. Such erection is intensely painful, and tends to aggravate the disease j it is also liable to induce profuse hemorrhage, probably by laceration of the mucous membrane, especially where forcible means have been employed to break the cord which the patient imagines ties the penis in its dis- torted position. The tendency to chordee is greatest during sleep; while the patient is warm in bed, and perhaps excited by voluptuous dreams. Sometimes, its proximate cause would seem to be other than inflamma- tory structural change; normal and abnormal erections alternating with each other. 2. The glans may become excoriated, furnishing a profuse thscharge ; establishing what is termed spurious gonorrhoea. 3. Tlie prepuce may become (Edematous; inducing the condition of (acquired) Phymosis, when the swoln prepuce maintains its ordinary relation to the glans ; causing Paraphymosis, when it is reflected behind the glans, and allowed to remain there. The former state aggravates the disease, by retaining discharge, and increasing the tendency to affection of the glans; the latter leads to strangulation of the glans, and consequently to intense exacerbation there. 4. The lymphatics may suffer; becoming painful, red, and swoln, on the dorsum of the penis; or, without such indication, inflammatory enlargement may take place in the inguinal glands, consti- tuting what is termed Sympathetic Eubo. 5. Abscess may form in the X)enis ; on the dorsum; or beneath, opposite to the site of the lacuna magna. The latter is the more frequent site. A main residence of the inflammatory process—which, in the first instance, does not extend be- yond two inches from the orifice—seems to be in this lacuna; which swells and becomes hard; filled with accumulated secretion internally, and externally invested by plastic formation. In this an exterior inflam- matory process may occur, causing abscess of greater or less extent. C. Or abscess forms in the perineum, at a distance from the original site of the disease—a less frequent complication; in some cases in connection with Cowper's glands, either on one or both sides ; threatening retention