257 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. houi-s before : and now the chiu-acteristic fluidity becomes fully established. Sometimes the body of the sore has not the grey or whitish colour, wliich usually obtains, but is dark from the beginning; the sloughing parts being infiltrated and mixed up with putrid extravasation. The degene- ration generally conimences at the edges, but rapidly invests the whole; and the progi-ess of the malady is also chiefly marginal. The constitutional symptoms, in whatever way the local affection may have begun, are invariably formidable—constitutional irritation, typhus fever, and tendency to collapse. As in erysipelas, they sometimes precede and usher in the local change ; sometimes they are only conse- cutive and attendant. When antecedent, they are always aggravated by the occurrence and extension of the local disorder; an event not invari- able in erysipelas. In some very few cases, when the patient was just before robust and in rude health, and has suffered by direct contagion, the introductory constitutional symptoms may be of the inflammatory type; but, even then, these will be very transient, and soon become merged in irritation. More frequently, the commencement is with irritative fever; this glides into the confirmed typhus, and sinking follows. Along with corporeal depression comes mental despondency—" The bravest soldier betrayed a sjrmptom which, in those of less strength of mind, formed a striking feature in every stage of the disease; namely, the greatest imaginable impatience of pain, and depression of spirits. Those who had borne amputation without a groan, shrunk at the washing 3f their sores, and shuddered at the sight of a dead comrade, or even on hearing the report of his death ; instantly predicting their own dissolu- tion, and sinldng into sullen despair."* No texture is proof against the ravages of this disease. The arterial resists longest, but in the end gives way ; and hemorrhage ensues. For there is not, as in ordinary gangrene, more especially when of the shronic kind, the solidifying of arterial contents, with occlusion of the panal up to the nearest collateral branch. Death of the part being fapid, the slough is peculiarly humid and soft. Cii'culation, though feeble, goes on till sphacelus is complete; and, besides, it is probable hat the blood's power of coagulation has been much impaired, as happens n other examples of poisoning of the system. This bleeding may "be favourable, as formerly stated, if only to uch an extent as to affect the part; resolving the inflammatory process yhich precedes and leads to the local death. More frequently, it is )rofase and prejudicial; increasing the prostration, and hastening the atal issue. " The third and last stage was now fast approacliing. surface of the sore was constantly covered with a bloody oozing; nd, on lifting up the edge of the flabby slough, the probe was tinged nth dark-coloured grumous blood, with wliich also its track became ^mediately filled. Eepeated and copious venous bleedings now came n, which rapidly sank the patient; the sloughs, whether falling off pontaneously, or detached by art, were quickly succeeded by others, and iscovered on their removal small thickly-studded specks of arterial 'loofL At length an artery sprung, which, in the attempt to secure it, • Hennen's Military Siirgory. p. 219. S