791 DISLOCATION OF THE LOWER JAW. Dislocation of the Lower Jaw. Dislocation of the jaw can only occur forwards, and during the exis- tence of teeth in the jaws; being exceedingly rare in the two edentulous periods of life. In tliis displacement the condyles rest in front of the base of the zygomatic process, and, according to Nekton, the coronoid processes on the edge of the malar bone external to its tubercle.* The accident may be double or single; according as both or one of the con- dyles are displaced. And it may be the result of mere muscular action, as in yawning or retelling j or of force applied to the symphysis, with tlie mouth more or less open. When the mouth is opened widely the condyle rests upon the articular eminence, so that it only requires laceration of the capsule, and sudden contraction of the external ptery- goids and a portion of the fibres of the masseters, to complete displace- ment. The symptoms are so characteristic as not to be overlooked. The mouth gapes, and cannot be shut; the chin is depressed and advanced, and saliva trickles over it; the condyloid space is vacant, and a prominence is felt beneath the zygomatic process; considerable pain is experienced, articulation is very indistinct—perhaps impossible—and deglutition difficult. Eeduction is effected by a combined movement; depression of the angle, elevation of the symphysis, backward pressure on the coronoid processes, and traction forwards of the whole bone. Thus the jaw is I'xtricated from its entanglement; and, brought withtu the uncontrolled l^lay of the muscles, is by them pulled back into its normal position. In some cases further assistance is obtained by depressing the chin before attempting the combined " downwards, forwards, and backwards " movement. The manipulation for reduction in the ordinary manner is as foUows. The thumbs, placed over the last grinders, within the mouth, lepress the angles of the bone and serve as a fulcrum; the rest of the land, grasping the chin and base of the jaw, makes the forwards exten- ion, while elevation of the symphysis disengages the condyles from heb abnormal position; an assistant may at the same time assist the nuscles in drawing back the bone into its place, by pressing back the oronoid processes. In order to protect the thumbs, a towel or other oft substance may be wrapped round the distal phalanx; should this •recaution not be employed, so soon as the jaw is felt to move they hould be slipped from between the teeth to the outer side. If any ifficulty in reducing the dislocation is experienced, chloroform should '0 administered, and one side should be reduced before the other. For )me days afterwards, the motions of the jaw should be very limited; nd in most cases it is well to restrain them by a bandage. Eeduc- ion has been effected at so late a period as ninety-eight days after the Rcurrence of the accident (Donovan, Dublin Med. Fress, 26th May '■S42); and by Sir A. Cooper and Stromeyer, each after the lapse of thirty- 5ve days. Unilateral displacement may be very closely simulated by Iironic rheumatic artliritis of the temporo-maxillary articulation. * Nekton, Meraoires de k Societe dc Chunrgie de Paris, 1849; et Elements de ithologie CJiirurg. Paris, 1847-48. 1