niLEGMONOUS ERYSirELAS. 251 I disaster; in time only to mitigate, and perhaps limit, destruction already done. The knife, when used at the proper time, need not go deeper than the subcutaneous areolar tissue; the process and its results having, as yet, extended no fm-tlier. But, when used at a later period—too late to prevent mischief, and only in time to limit—it must generally per- forate the subjacent fascia as well. In fact, it must reach all the occupied textures ; otherwise it might almost as well be let alone. The treatment of phlegmonous erysipelas by incision may be said to f be as old as the surgery of the 16th century, according to Prospero 1 Alpini; or it maybe taken even as far back as Oribasius, a. d, 350. ! But its true introduction into practice is comparatively recent; by the exertions of Mr. Copland Hutchison and others. It seems a severe remedy ; and doubtless so it is. But it looks more cruel than it really is. \ The wound appears both vnde and deep at the moment of infliction ; but, in a few days, sometimes after but a few hours, subsidence of the swelling may have reduced it to a comparative scratch. And, besides, even though it were altogether as severe as it seems, no other proceeding vriU prove equally efficacious—in the advanced form of the disease; and " ad extremos morhos, extrema remedial There can be hardly any question as to the propriety of free incision, after suppuration has occured; for there is no other means of sparing both part and system. Some are not fuUy persuaded of the justice and expediency of the practice, at the earlier period; when the textures are only occupied by fibrinous serum, and when the inflammatory process has not reached its crisis. But we think that due consideration of the indications which such treatment com- prises, and of the paramount importance of fulfilKng such indications, is not unlikely to reconcile all sceptics to the seeming cruelty. At one time, also, it was matter of dispute, among those who favoured the practice of incision, whether the wounds should be long or short. Whether the knife should be entered at the upper margin of the afiected part, and carried down continuously throughout its whole extent, however great that may be (Lawrence). Or whether it should be applied only to those parts most implicated, where tension and pain are greatest, and diffuse suppuration most imminent. Seldom, if ever, is the whole part equally affected. Some points of the surface—perhaps the greater num- ber—may shew only the characters of simple erysipelas, or little more; while in others the phlegmonous signs are in active progress. By the latter only are incisions demanded. Consequently, we find that common f;ense and common practice have decided in favour of the " short cut" system; and no longer, as has been well observed by Professor Cooper, are yard-measures required for ascertaining the extent of incisions in this disease. To enter a knife over the great trochanter, and withdraw it only when it has reached the knee, or not until even the outer ankle has been approached—as has been done—is to inflict a very serious injury. Much loss of blood, shock to the system, and protracted suppuration must follow. And this triumvirate, becoming associated with the exhausting • fFects of the natural progress of the disease, is not unlikely to overpower the system. A few small wounds, implicating only those portions of the texture where their presence is essential, are not only much less serious as an additional injury, but more effectual as a remedy.