196 ON THE llEMOVAL OF TUMOUKS. Tlie oxtevnal incisions should Lo always fi-ee; rather too cxtensi^'e than otherwise. For thus Loth facility and safety of dissection will he luaiorially favoured. Besides, an excavation, Avith hut a narrow integu- mental orifice, is much more likely to proA'e troublesome by suppuration, than a more extensive yet simple wound, whose largest dimension is superficial, Integumental incisions are much facilitated, by previous tension ol' the skin. But, when certain lines or points are important guides to the relative anatomy of subjacent parts, care must be taken, while stretching, not to disi)lace them The incisions should commence where the principal blood-vessels and nerves enter ; advancing steadily from that pomt. The nerves are cut at once, and thus the subsequent dissection becomes comparatively painless; even independently of chloroform. The arterial trunks, too, being cut early, and compressed or tied as soon as cut, the operation in consequence is comparatively bloodless. Following an opposite course, an unnecessary amount of blood is lost, and the number of ligatures is great. Unless hemorrhage be very alarming, or the patient be already so sunk by disease as to be incapable of bearing loss of blood, deligation of the cut vessels should be reserved till after the tumour's removal; tem- porary arrest being entrusted to the fingers of an assistant. Thus, time is saved. And the number of Hgatures will also be diminished ; it being likely that some of the smaller branches—important enough to have de- manded deligation, at the time of their section—will be found satisfac- torily closed by completion of the natural hemostatics, assisted by the temporary pressure. A tumour placed over the course of large nerves, blood-vessels, or other important organs, may seem to be completely separate from them. Yet in many such cases the operator finds, during his dissection, that his previous examination has, to a certain extent, deceived him ; the pro- longations, even of a simple tumour, often extending to a much greater depth than was externally indicated. On the other hand, a large artery or nerve, passing through a tumour, may seem to be irrevocably incor- porated with its structure; yet, if this be not malignant, the artery or nerve so situated is not to be rashly sacrificed in the operation. They may pass innocently through without being impKcated in the structural change ; and a careful dissection may leave them intact, yet without any portion of the tumour adherent. Let dissection advance regularly, from one aspect of the tumour to another ; and not by alternate cuts, or scratches, at various pomts. The procedure will thus be more seemly, simple, and safe. In removing benign formations, firm, and circumscribed, from the vicinity of important parts—as blood-vessels, nerves, cavities, and canals —let the laiife's edge play closely on the tumour, each stroke telhng on its surface ; and, by traction on the tumour, remove it at the same time as far as possible from the contiguous parts. Thus the latter are saved ; while, at the same time, we can make sure that the wliole of the dise;ised formation is taken away. But if tlie tumour be cither avowedly malig- nant, or suspected of evil tendency, the incisions must be conducted on a precisely opposite principle. If the adjacent parts be such as not to