IDIOPATHIC ANEURISM. 390 interior of the cyst may come to be lined with a quasi-membranous structure; analogous to, and often apparently continuous with the in- ternal coat of the artery. Resistance to enlargement of the tumour is made partly by this strengthening of the cyst, partly by the contractile effort of repression exerted by the surround- ing tissues. The first part of the process of for- mation is gradual and slow. But on the coats giving way, increase is sudden, and for a time rapid; often the patient has, by sensation in the part, a distinct perception of the event This is a frequent form of idiopathic aneurism, especially in the extremities. 3. By Euphtfe.—This kind of tumour forms rapidly from the first; and may in a short time attain a large size. The immediate or exciting cause is sudden muscular exertion, as in pulling, leaping, etc., whereby the arterial timics are stretched beyond what they are able to bear. The i internal and middle coats give way at once, by laceration ; and aneuris- - mal formation speedily follows. The patient has generally a distinct I perception of the tear, and consequently of the very first origin of the ? tumour. Sometimes the event occurs during ordinary exertion of walk- • ing ; and then he is apt to suppose that he has been struck on the part,, by a stick or stone. But this exciting cause is not alone sufficient; there must be a predisposing one also; and that is the atheromatous change.. Were it not for this, the tear might simply heal; or, at all events, plastic product would be formed, whereby the arterial tube would be obHterated; and either way, there wOilld be no aneurism. But Avhen arterial de- generation exists, no such reparative effort is made ; on the contrary, the tear widens, and the aneurismal formation advances. Other terms are used to denote varieties in character or form. For example, we say that an aneurism is Dissecting, when the arterial tunics are more or less separated from each other by the blood's infiltra- tion. The external coat alone may be detached from the middle and internal. Much more frequently, hoWeVer, the transverse fibres of the middle coat are separated into two layers, for a greater or less distance, in the track of the vessel.* Also, the dissection may be either complete or partial. That is, the hiatlis between the coats may terminate in a * For most practical purposes, it is enbugh tb regai'd the arterial tissue as consist- ing of three layers—internal, or serous : middle, or fibrous : and external, composed mainly of connective tissue. But microscopically, the umuber of layers may be multiplied. The following are recognised by Henle :—1. The epithelial. 2. Tlic striated, or fenestrated membrane. 3. The longitudinal fibrous. 4. The circular fibrous. 5. The yellow fibrous, or elastic. 6. The areolar (connective tissue). By Malgaigne the Sclerous is described as a separate tunic ; it is, ho\veVer, nothing else than the subserous muscular coat, in which the degenerative changes already described first occur. Fig. 1G8. Aneurism of the aorta. The greater pai-t of the cyst filled with clol. Aperture of communication small.