CONSTITUTIONAL TREATMENT. 1185 Whilo such mercurial mismanagment continued to be plied with a blind, empirical, and desperate profusion, by the majority of prac- titioners, there were in every age others who became alive to the folly and danger of all such indiscriuxinate mercurialization, and even recog- nised that this agent did not possess such potent effects as to entitle it to the name of either a specific or an antidote. Various modifications, both in theory and practice, accordingly, came to be introduced even by those who implicitly relied on mercury, and mercury alone, in the treatment of sypliilis. Mr. Hunter, for example, long ago stated, that while mer- curials possessed the power of preventing the " venereal disposition," they had a much less certain influence upon " the disposition" when once formed. By this he meant to signify that, while syphilitic symp- toms appeared in a minority of eases where mercury was employed in the treatment of the chancre, its administration in the case of secondary symptoms was found to be far less certain as a preventive of further recurrence of the disease. While there can be no doubt of the truth of this sagacious observation, the explanation of the fact is somewhat diffe- rent from what he imagined. For, since in the term chancre—as the term was employed by him*—was included both the soft and indurated sore—^ the former of which is, to the latter, in point of frequency, as three to one —as a matter of course, in the majority of cases treated by mercurials, no secondary symptoms of any kind occurred. This immunity, however, was not due to the treatment, but to the original non-infecting nature of the chancre. The important practical bearing of the observation, nevertheless, consists in the proof which it affords, that, with all his belief in the employment of mercury, Mr. Hunter still found it in practice variable in its effects on the constitutional disease, and uncertain as affording a pro- mise for the future—after its administration even in much larger doses than are now-a-days employed—of anything like immunity against re- appearance of the disease. To Mr. Rose, Dr. Hennen, and Dr. John Thomson, we are indebted for further practical progress in these thera- peutics. The remarks of Mr. Hunter, just quoted, had done much to make the mercurial treatment of all sores situated upon the genitals the rule, with the object of preventing the formation of the syphilitic diathesis or " disposition," as he called it. These gentlemen proved, by extensive observations made in miKtary hospitals, that not only did sores upon the genitals heal without the use of mercury, but that, upon the whole, they healed more rapidly than when mercury was administered ; while, furthermore, secondary symptoms appeared in but a small minority of the cases, and in these not more frequently than when mercury had been employed as a preventive to the disposition. But with our present knowledge of the characters of the infecting chancre, and the necessary occurrence of syphilis as a consequence of its existence, we see a very different explanation of the results of the non-mercurial treatment advo- cated by those geutlcmen ; we have, in fact, in their experience, an excellent illustration of a mixed mass of soft and indui-atcd chancres spontaneously developing their distinctive characteristics. In considering, tlaerefore, the treatment of syphilis by mercury, we wish distinctly to guard ourselves against misapprehension; explaining that by syphilis we mean the systemic disease, which, commencing with 4 G