PAINFUL TUBERCLE. 459 -within a nerve such as tlie sciatic has been successfully removed, and the function of tlie nerve retained unimpaired. In the case of a stump, or other wound, if there bo one or two distinct and circumscribed tumours, they may be removed in a similar way. Eut usually they are numerous, and intimately incorporated with the dense ligamentous structure forming the cicatrix. And, imder these circumstances, a second amputation is necessary ; taking away all the neuromata, as well as the changed struc- ture in Avhich they are inextricably impacted. In doing so, the nervous section should be made higher than that of the other tissues—by sepa- rate division afterwards, the patient being of course fully under the in- fluence of cldoroform—in order to make sure that the cut extremities shall not again become entangled in the cicatrix. Sometimes, however, notwithstanding all care in such particulars, the neuromata, or at least the neuralgic pains, return j a circumstance apparently attributable rather Fig. 196. Fig. 197. to a constitutional than to a local cause, and demanding general treat- ment accordingly. That such neuralgic diathesis exists, experience has made but too plain ; often neutralising the results of operations otherwise most pro- mising. And the liability to such a perverted state of system must always be borne in mind, in reference to treatment and prognosis. In the formidable diathesis where neuromatous tumours occur in dif- ferent nerves, throughout the whole body, as in the remarkable cases related by Mr. Smith of Dublin, operative interference is manifestly hopeless, and any treatment is likely to prove merely palliative. Painful Tubercle.—This is often termed also Subcutaneous ; its most frequent site being the areolar tissue, immediately beneath the skin ; and sometimes the integument also seems to be partially involved. Occasionally, however, it is found in the intermuscular areolar tissue. The size seldom exceeds that of a pea or bean ; and is often less than either. The structure is usually that of fibro-cartilage, more dense than Fig. 196. Neuromata of stump, aft(3r amputation of tlie arm. A large neui-oma- to«8 mass at a; oppo.sitc tlie tumours are more defiucd. Jig- 197. Microscopic section of subcutaneous tubercle, shewing fibro-cartilagi- nous structure. Corpuscles abundant.-~7?Vom a drawing hy Dr. Bennett.