UTERINE rOLYPUS. 11!/'J other causes; ns flexion or versiou of the uterus, the proscnco of tuiuoui-s, and difliculty of adjusting the probe to the direction of the long axis of the neck and cavity of the organ. Treatment consists in dilating the cervical canal. This may bo effected by a succession of bougies, or of small pessaries Avitli an intra- uterine stem, as is done in stricture of the urethra or rectum. The instrument, however, may be safely loft longer in situ than in the cog- nate affections. In fact, it may ;in some cases be left for days with safety. if the disease is inflammatory in its origin, however, the pessaries would merely irritate, without producing benefit. In such cases, espe- cially if there is any engorgement, it is better to trust to the ordinary treatment of an inflaming and hypertrophied cervix. Of late, it has been recommended to use the bistouri-cach6, or the uterotome of Dr. Simpson—a similar instrument, adapted to this parti- cular case. By means of this, the stricture is divided from within out- wards ; the blade being made to project only to a small extent. If the neck is small, the incision must be proportionally diminished; as there is danger from dividing the vascular trunks which lie on the peritoneal aspect of the proper tissue of the cervix. Uterine Polypus. Uterine Polypi may be of various structure. Before their removal we can in some cases determine their pathological nature by their con- sistence, by their seat of insertion, by their size, by their histoiy, and by the concomitant symptoms. The size of the polypus may vary from that of a millet-seed, to that of a child's head. In fact, their growth is limited only by the caj)acity of the pelvis. The largest tumours are fibrous in their structiu'e. The mucous vary much in size; they often are formed by the enlargement and projection of Nabothian follicles, and then contain cavities filled witli the glaiiy secretion of these bodies. Sometimes, the mucous polypus is so small and sessile, as to be with difficulty discovered. The insertion of these tumours may be at any point on the internal surface or os of the uterus. Very rarely, they are found implanted in the vaginal walls ; either having originally sprimg from that part, or, as still more seldom happens, having formed a second insertion by adhesion. Polypi have sometimes been observed growing by two roots from the uterine walls—the roots having an identity of structure ; and sometimes the second root is merely the accidental result of adhesion. A polypus may be inserted by a pedicle or stalk ; or it may be sessile. The pedicle may be of any thickness ; it may be several inches long ; or its length may be inappreciable. Sometimes polypi are found projecting from the vagina, suspended from the uterus by a long slender pedicle. These have been designated by French authors " polypes h. pendide and are generally observed in women considerably advanced in life, in whom the polypus has grown without occasioning much if any annoyance. While mucous polypi may spring from any part of the internal sur-