122G EPIDIDYMITIS. to do good, and may do miif.li harm ; for tlie retuniiiig urctliral discliarge which accompanies a rocedence of the scrotal inflammatory process, is not the cause but the consequence of its departure. Leeching of the scrotum, bleeding from the arm, or opening veins in the scrotal surface by punc- ture or scarification, are all unsatisfactory ; weakening the patient, and not commensurately relieving the pain or tension, or cutting short the attack. Hot acetate of lead and opium fomentations, followed by mercurial ointment mixed with a quarter of its bulk of extract of bella- donna—the testicle at the same time being thoroughly supported—will be found of far greater benefit; while opiates internally may be admini- stered by the mouth or rectum, if the pain is very intense. Laxatives, not purgatives, should be given as required. The diet should be stinted ; the patient should lie in bed, or on the sofa; and Mindererus' spirit, or antimony, may be employed when the inflammatory condition seems to require the use of some gentle contrastimulant. If tension be great, it is well to puncture the tunica vaginalis with the lancet, so as to evacuate the accumulated serum. Vidal de Cassis has advised that the punc- ture should divide the fibrous tunic of the testis ; but this does not seem necessary, the testis seldom being at all affected. As the trouble sub- sides, resolution may be hastened by stimulants to absorption ; a solution of the iodide of potassium, with iodine, may be painted on the surface, and pushed to vesication; at a more advanced period, a gum and mercurial plaster may be applied ; or pressure may be made by means of adhesive plaster, cut in strips, and applied as if to a limb—the testicle being separated from its fellow, and made to protrude, so as to admit of such application. Eicord at one time proposed to apply this pressure from the first; but, surely, its proper place is only after the chronic stage has been fairly established. In the acute stage, pressure, however carefully applied, is likely to prove, intolerable, or at least to cause aggravation, if the disease be resident in the testicle itself. As the complaint yields, discharge may be expected to reappear at the orifice of the urethra. Very frequently, resolution is incomplete ; bardness and swelling remaining in the epididymis ; and so long as these exist, the function of the affected testis must be considered as in abeyance. Thus after double epididymitis, although sexual intercourse can occur as before, fecundation cannot take place. In such circumstances the ejacu- lated fluid is found destitute of spermatozoa. This condition requires active perseverance in the employment of local discutients; and the iodide of potassium may be useful internally. In some rare cases, resolutive absorption is not only raj)id but excessive. The gland, after regaining the normal size, continues to diminish, and may ultiiuately dwindle down to a mere shred, wholly destitute of the peculiar fimction. On the other hand, sloughing of the gland has sometimes resulted from the acuteness of the inflammatory progress. Sometimes Abscess forms ; but seldom in the gonorrhoeal form, unless some casualty or mismanagement have occurred, involving the testis, as well as the epididymis. In traumatic orchitis, however, the occurrence is not so rare. It is attended -with much suffering ; and the tubular structure of the organ is endangered. An incision must be made as soon as matter has formed; and, in the after treatment, care must be taken