583 THE USE OF ClILOEOFOEM. movoment, or cries indicative of pain, no pain is complained of, or indeed remembered, after all is over. In emergence the patient is left to himself. Eut if progress is slow, this may be assisted by fanning the face, and occasionally sprinkling it with cold water. If much chloroform has been given, especially if the patient has had food, however small the quantity, witliin six hours of the administration of the drug, vomiting may be expected. This is watched. The patient is turned upon his side, and care is taken that the windpipe is not filled or compressed with what is regurgitating past it. In general, vomiting is to be avoided; and in some operations—as on the eye—its occurrence is especially untoward. The following are the best means of prevention :—pure chloroform, rapid induction, and a previously empty stomach. In a preconcerted operation, the patient should always, on this account, be fasting. Should sickness or faintness continue to a troublesome degree, after emergence, it may be necessary to administer wine, brandy, or other stimulus—cautiously. The best after-condition is that of sleep ; of a natural and tranquil kind. The patient then should be left undisturbed. If pain continue, of a violent land—as after ligature of hemorrhoids— this may be greatly assuaged by a minor use of the chloroform; the patient whiffing it slightly, in a handkerchief, from time to time. There are certain circumstances which, if they do not forbid the deep stupor of antesthesia altogether, require the agent to be managed with the extremest caution; as in fatty disease of the heart with tendency to syncope, in tendency to congestion of the brain, in strongly marked hys- teria, and in operations on the mouth with risk of asphyxia from blood accumulating in the air passages. These matters, however, with many others, will fall to be discussed each in its proper place, in connection with the operations of surgery. Local ancestliesia—quite sufficient for many a minor operation—may he produced by the application of cold, according to the method of Mr. Amot. Pounded ice, with half its bulk of salt, is put into a muslin bag, and held upon the part till this become pale, hard, and senseless. In emergence, the same precautions are necessary against immature secretion, as in ordinary exposure to cold.