1343 CORNS AND BUNIONS. of repeated attacks of bursitis, the cyst suppurates, and opens externally ; the aperture becomes fistulous ; the cyst contracts, but continues to dis- charge fluid, more or less; and acute accessions are ever liable to occur. In this case it is necessary to destroy the cyst, by inserting a piece of potass into the cavity. Afterwards, the granulating sore is brought to heal under the ordinary means—rest, and simple applications. 4. There is an aggravated class of cases, in which there is enlargement of the osseous texture. Blistering and rest may make some favourable impression. By suitable adjustment of the shoe, palliation is obtained. 5. The joint may be partially displaced—in the rheumatic and gouty adult; the toe riding over its fellows, and pointing to the outer side of the foot. This too, can usually be but palliated. In some cases by wearing capacious soft shoes, and placing a pad of increasing size between the great toe and its fellow, even this deformity and its consequences may be remedied. Onyxis and Onycliia; Exostosis; and Contraction of the Toes. Onyxis and Onychia require the same treatment, as when affecting the fingers. The great toe is the especial site of Onyxis. Exostosis of the Distal Phalanx of the Great Toe is a troublesome affection, not unfrequent in occurrence. Sometimes the growth takes place from the plantar aspect of the phalanx; but much more frequently from the dorsal; elevating the nail, causing pain, and seriously interfering Fig. 368. with progression. Excision is performed, by means of a strong Wharn- cliffe knife, or by cutting-pliers; and, should any reproduction threaten, during cure of the remaining wound, the chloride of zinc is applied. Contraction of the Toes.—The toes—more especially the one next the great toe—are liable to extreme contraction, whereby considerable defor- mity is produced, the wearing of boots and shoes is rendered painful, and the functions of the foot are interfered with. Subcutaneous section of the extensor and flexor tendons usually permits sufficient restoration of the normal position. But it is not uncommon to find amputation of the offending toe expedient; other means having proved unavailing, and the patient being himself anxious for a summary procedure; this is more particularly the case, when a bursa haS formed over the prominent knuckle, and when suppuration with erythema follows even moderate exercise. Fig. 368. Onyxis ; affecting the great toe.