TREATMENT OF GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 507 reconimendod by some surgeons at the jDresent day, is a practically useless though ingenious toy. When a bullet penetrates the cavity of the abdomen or thorax, it is very rare ly removable; and hunting for it with probes or forceps is out of the question. Ey some, repeated bleeding, along with the most rigid antiphlogistic treatment, is recommended in the hope of moderating the obstinate inflammatory accession which the presence of the foreign body may be expected to maintain. In some cases, however, balls become secluded from the general cavity of the thorax or abdomen from tlie very first, by a copious formation of plastic lymph; and even where suppuration ensues, it may be limited, and seek its way to the surface, either intercostally, or by the formation of a communication with the bronchial tubes of the corresponding lung. The mere fact, therefore, of the occurrence of inflammatory symptoms should not lead the surgeon, without due consideration, to resort to bloodletting; keeping in mind, as he should, the risks which a profuse and deep-seated suppuration (which in any circumstances is likely to ensue) will be certain to entail. When a bone such as the femur has been struck, or even grazed, very careful examination is necessary—assisted by incision, if need be— in order to ascertain the existence of splintering, and to what extent it has occurred. For recent experience has proved, that unless the detached and especially the impacted fragments are thoroughly removed at the time, these portions not only die, but engender the most serious consequences by establishing difiuse suppuration within the medullary canal. But, very frequently, indeed, the surgeon's first care is to determine whether an attempt should be made to save the injured limb, or whether amputation is necessary. The settlement of this question will be mainly influenced by the probability of the occurrence of gangrene ; by regard to the power of system in the prospect of a tedious and suppurative cure, as influenced by age, habits, and previous condition ; by the probabiKty of the limb proving useful, or the contrary, if retained ; and by regard to the disposable means for conducting the after treatment. If it be determined to remove the Hmb, a second question arises as to the proper time for doing so; whether the amputation shaU be ^:?n'- mary, performed before inflammatory accession; or secondary, after the suppurative stage has been established, with decadence of the consti- tutional inflammatory symptoms. In military and naval practice, there 18 now little of the diversity of opinion which once existed on this sub- ject ; decided preference, for very obvious reasons, being given to the primary operation. Primary amputation may be performed at three different periods before the advent of the inflammatory accession. (1.) Ere shock has been induced—as may occur on board ship, or in a besieged city—the knife closely follows up the lately inflicted mutilation. (2.) Or in other cases, and more commonly, where this earliest period has been lost or has not occurred, we wait till the shock has passed oflT—as usually happens within a few hours—and then, during the interval of systemic repose, between depression and excessive reaction, a period whose average range is from eight to sixteen hours, we perform the operation. Lastly (3.) In some cases, when the degree of shoclc is great and mcrcasing, when there is no evidence of internal lesion, but Avhcn