ADENITIS. 450 inflanimatoiy process ; iDut remains, forming an indolent and firm en- largement. In most cases—more especially those unconnected with absorption of deleterious virus—it is our object to arrest the process and obtain resolu- tion. Local depletion, by leeching, is naturally had recourse to ; but experience says little in its favour. There are comparatively few examples of its apparent success ; on the contrary, the irritant cffuct of the application often seems to hasten the process onward. If leeching is employed, let it be at a little distance from the part affected. ' Usually, however, more trust may be reposed in other antiphlogistics; rest, diligent fomentation, relaxing position, antimony or aconite, and low- regimen. If the crescent affection be of the sub-acute form, benefit may often be obtained from the application of iodine, or nitrate of silver in solution, so as to desiccate and discolour the integument. ]\Iany a simple and sub-acute bubo may be thus arrested ; at the same time main- taining rest and antiphlogistic regimen. When matter has formed, incision is to be made as under ordinary circumstances. The suppuration is usually both profuse and long-con- tinued. After incision, poulticing and fomentation are employed for a , few days; then water-dressing, medicated or not, as circumstances may require. And ultimately pressure is advisable ; to hasten absorption ol' fibrinous infiltration in the gland's parenchyma, and at the same time to favour closure of the suppurating track and cavity. If suppuration have taken place only in the subcutaneous areolar tissue, the skin is usually undermined. The opening becomes large, and closure is delayed by projection and interposition of the yet entire glan- dular tumour. In such circumstances, pressure is to be tried ; directed with some energy on the ofi'ending part. And if this fail, the prominent gland may be dissected out or removed with scissors ; or, should a sinus lead to its interior, potassa fusa may be freely applied by impenetration, so as to ensure thorough disintegration of the mass. Thereafter, the sore is to be treated in the ordinary way. Sometimes a glandular enlargement, originally acute, ceases to be so ; and hangs undecided between progression and recedence. Tor this state nothing is so suitable as a blister. It decides the question in one way or other; either absorption or suppuration follows. In the truly indolent SAvellings, pressure is employed, with the appli- cation of the gum and mercurial plaster, or occasional counter-initation; and the iodide of potassium is given internally. Where constitutional debility exists, the iodide of iron may be preferable; and cod-liver oil is often of great service. Should the method by discussion fail, both part and system may be continuously stimulated, so as to induce suppura- tion in the changed part. Suppurating buboes, of specific venereal origin, require certain pecu- liarities of treatment, as will afterwards be noticed. The treatment of scrofulous glandular swellings has been already sufficiently detailed under the head of Scrofula. I