1172 BULLOUS ERUPTIONS. be said never to form, tlie same difficulty in diagnosis need not be anti- cipated. Bullous : Pemphigus, Pompholyx, Rupia. In Pempliigus and Pompholyx tlie bullaj, or blebs, resemble those which are produced by drops of boiling water falling on the surface. Of a circular or ovoid form, they vary in size from an inch to more in diame- ter. The cuticle, beneath which a serous, sero-purulent, or sanguinolent fluid is effused, is but slightly elevated above the surrounding surface, which is usually more or less stained of a violaceous or coppery tint. The eruption may terminate in absorption of the fluid and desquamation of the separated cuticle, or in bursting or rupture of the bleb, and ulcera- tion of the exposed surface of the skin. This form of eruption is commonly met with in children born of syphi- litic parents. The blebs may exist at the time of birth—especially when the infant is still-born— or may appear within a short time after birth. The most common site for the bullous eruption is upon the soles of the feet and palms of the hands ; where, in fact, the cuticle is thickest and yields least readily. Pemphigus in the child is not, however, necessarily due to syphilis; occurring sometimes in unhealthy seasons among the children of the poor, and due in them to a cachectic state of the general health engendered by insufficiency in the nutritive quality of the food. Pemphigus in the adult is a very rare affection ; unless, as some have supposed, the early stage of psoriasis palmaris is really of a bullous kind. Rupia is by some classified among the pustular, by some among the bullous, syphilitic eruptions; but as the question is wholly dependent upon whether, in the early stage, the elevated cuticle contains a purulent or serous fluid, it matters little under which head we place this affection. In most cases the preliminary condition consists of a papular elevation of the surface. Upon this a vesicle forms, containing a bloody serum. This in most cases is absorbed ; a crust forming in its place, of a greenish yellow colour. Ulceration is, however, progressing beneath, and adding marginally to the crust, which rises from the surface in a conical form, resembhng in some cases a limpet, in others rather an oyster shell in shape. As the crust desiccates, it grows darker until the summit may become almost black. The margin of the crust is usually sun'ounded by a copper-coloured or violet-tinted areola. When the crust is removed, the ulcer beneath is found to have a cir- cular outline, with an abrupt sharply-defined margin, the centre occupied . by an elevated granulating surface corresponding to the interior of the : rupial crust. When left to itself, the scab usually separates before the > central part has finally cicatrized. The granulating surface accordingly becomes again covered with a crust, if left exposed ; and the former : appearance, in a modified degree, is reproduced The cicatrix, when i recently formed, is then elevated ; of a coppery or dusky colour. Under r the sUghtest irritation it tends to give way ; at a later period, however, . the cicatrix is depressed below the level of surrounding parts, and leaves ultimately an indelible white stain. The face and upper extremities are the most common sites for this