628 FRACTURE OF THE EXTERNAL TABLE. head symptoms are present or not. The mere existence of this form of injury is an amply sufficient warrant for our interference. Head symp. toms, and those of a most urgent kind, are certain to supervene, if the operation be withheld; and thuy can be averted only by early removal of the splintered fragments resting on the dura mater. After the opera- i-j tion, antiphlogistic treatment must be sedulously maintained. 1 As in the case of concussion, it may be difficult, at first, to persuade J the patient—as yet suffering but little—of the propriety of instantly ' submitting to treatment which may seem to him unnecessarily severe and indeed quite unwarrantable. This obstacle is to be overcome, by a calm yet earnest exposition of the certain danger which otherwise awaits him. Obviously, it is our first duty to come to a just conclusion as to the existence or not of this kind of fracture. A most minute examination is accordingly made. The scalp is freely divided, if need be, to expo- the fractured point to sight as well as touch ; and by a gentle yet deter mined use of the finger and probe, we endeavour to satisfy ourseh ' thoroughly; assisted in. our decision by regard to the mode in which tin injury has been inflicted. Penetrating cuts of the Cranium—as by a sabre, axe, or sharp spade —often closely resemble punctured fracture, as to the kind of injuii done to the inner table, and the immediate necessity for operation*! When the cut passes sheer through both tables, the inner one is usuall\| splintered; and the fragments press inwards, untowardly. They rnvsi be removed. The chasm of the wound is often sufficient to disclose thei presence and site, to finger or probe; and it may suffice for removal i If not, room is to be made by application of the trephine, or saw, as mai seem most convenient. Fracture of the External Table, alone. This is not an uncommon result of comparatively slight violena done to the calvarium ; by bodies either sharp or obtuse. The exter table alone gives way ; and is perhaps driven inwards on the diplo The most marked sample of the injury is afforded by fracture over tlj frontal sinus; in other parts of the calvarium the accident occurs onm in those of middle age, who possess diploe, with marked distiactioj^!. between the cranial plates. No operative interference is requirec except in the case of the frontal sinus; and then elevation of the d, pressed part is expedient. The treatment is, locally and generally, an'.: phlogistic. But, as formerly stated, the inflammatory process mi become excessive, and extend inwards; and suppuration in the dipl^ may lead to suppuration also on the internal aspect of the bone, necror| of the implicated part ensuing. Under such circumstances, the ope tion of trephining is likely to be required, to relieve compressie Sometimes diploal phlebitis, or thrombosis of the intracranial sinnaj with the usual sad consequences, ensues ; too often baffling all ment.