FISTULA IN ANO. 1043 swelling upon pressure, with the escape of pus from the orifice of the anus ; and a plunge of a lancet or Ibistomy will at once change the case into the complete form. The treatment of fistula is simple—and, if the disease be merely- local, usually quite efiectual. The main obstacles to healing are the fistulous condition of the track^ and the frequent motion by muscular action. By laying open the track, and at the same time dividing the sphincter, both are overcome. The patient is made to stoop over a bed, back of a chair, or table, with the limbs unbent and somewhat apart; if anesthesia be employed, he is recumbent with the legs raised, or may be laid on his side. An assistant separates the nates to the full The surgeon, seated, inserts the probe, taking especial care to lodge its ex- tremity in the bowel through the ulcerated internal opening. He then carries the point out at the orifice of the anus, and with a knife divides the septum and releases the probe ; the probe being grooved, so as to admit of a curved, strong, sharp-pointed bistoury being passed along it. Or, the probe having been withdrawn, its place is occupied by the probe- pointed bistoury—used at first merely as a probe; the point is then met in the bowel by the forefinger of the other hand, and, guided by it, is brought out at the orifice of the anus; when, with a gentle sawing motion, division is eff'ected of the septum which is contained witliin the concavity of the instrument. When this is of considerable thickness, or of almost cartilaginous density—as not unfrequently is the ease—a par- ticularly stout and well-tempered blade must be selected for the service, lest it give way. It is unnecessary, however, to divide any great extent of parts, for the following reasons :—There is almost always an internal opening ; this is inrariably situate almost immediately within the sphincter ; it is essential to make the line of division pass through this aperture ; and that having been done, there is in no case any necessity for passing the knife higher, however extensive the fistula may be. It is by no means uncommon to find the track passing higher than the internal opening; yet in these cases the ordinary operation is all that is necessary ; the knife entering at the ulcerated opening, and no higher. One obvious advantage of this is, the avoidance of danger from loss of blood. A high wound might implicate arterial branches of considerable importance. In the approved operation, only small branches can spring ; they are seen at the time of division, and can readily be secured by Fig. 318. Plan of tlic operation for Fistula in ano, the finger and bistoury met in the rectum previously to division.