LIGATURE OF THE SUBCLAVIAN. 802 more deeply seated, Lut also in close relation with tlie apex of the left lung and pleura, the subclavian, internal jugular, and innominate veins, the thoracic duct and vagus nerve (some of which can scarcely fail to sustain serious injury in tlie attempt)—may be excluded from tlie cate- gory of vessels admitting of deligation. On either side, the ligature of the middle, as well as of the interntd third is not desiralile, on account of the propinquity of large branches at the deligated point. The external third, therefore, may practically be alone considered as eligible for operation. But if, in performing the ordinary operation on tliis jjart of the vessel, the coats appear unsound, we are fully warranted in cautiously dividing the scalenus muscle, of course taking care of the phrenic nerve which lies close to its internal margin, and seeking inwards for a more healthy portion of the vessel. Deligation of the external third is best accomplished by the method originally employed by Mr. Ramsden in 1808, with, however, a fatal result, and first performed with a successful issue by Dr. Post of New York in 1817. The patient having been placed recumbent, on rather a high table, and the shoulder, if elevated by an axillary aneurism, having been depressed as much as possible, an incision is made above and parallel to the clavicle, through the skin and platysma myoides; extending from over the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid to the anterior border of the trapezius—or even a little further in both directions, should the clavi- cular origin of these muscles occupy the greater extent of the base of the posterior triangle. Before making this incision, it is well, by pressure behind the margin of the sterno-mastoid, to ascertain the site of tho external jugular vein so as to avoid wounding it. This may be even more satisfactorily insured by drawing the skin dowuAvards over the clavicle and cutting upon the bone, so that, on resilience, the wound may correspond with the course of the vessel. A second incision is made to fall into the anterior extremity of the first, in the line of the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid; and the flap thus indicated is slightly reflected. This second incision may, however, be dispensed with, except where the neck is short, the veins much in the way, the clavicle much pushed upward, or the oozing into the wound a source of interruption. The cervical fascia is divided; the external jugular vein is turned aside, if it bulges inconveniently; the fat, glands, and areolar tissue are dis- sected through to the full extent of the external woimd—when the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid Avdl be seen shining through its sheath of the deep fascia ; and then we know that in the triangular space between that muscle, the clavicle, and the sterno-mastoid, is contained the object of our search. The deep fascia having been cut through, the outer edge of the scalenus muscle is sought for; and now the field of search is further limited ; for the artery wUl be found by tracing the border of the muscle downwards, by means of the finger, to the tubei-cle of the first rib, behind which, and between it and tlie cords of the brachial plexus which are usually seen exposed immediately above and behind this point, the artery is felt pulsating. The site of the vessel having been reached, it is cautiously isolated to the requisite extent; and the needle is passed from the clavicular aspect—not that the subclavian veni runs any risk, for it lies in front of the scalenus, and below the level of