1200 INFANTILE SYPHILIS. (1) contact of the cutaneous surface with the maternal passages affected with disease ; or to (2) the presence of a morbid lesion (a) primary, or (b) secondary, in the nurse who suckles it—acting either directly througli the mouth of the child, and the parts with which it comes in contact, as in sucking, kissing, etc., or through the medium of the milk excreted from tainted blood; or (3) the infection may be due to accidental cir- cumstances of exposure, either to the indurated chancre, or to secondary lesions, in other individuals with whom the infant may be brouglit in contact; while lastly, the infection may be produced by (4) vaccination, the syphilitic virus being mingled with that of the vaccine disease. The infant is, therefore, exposed to the action of syphilitic virus from various dilferont sources, at the earliest age. The effects of the poison in the congenital cases is sometimes fxH- cidal—indeed very generally so when the infection in one or both parents is recent; the foetus perishing during intra-uterine life, and imdergoing consequent expulsion from the womb. This fatal result is due in some cases to disease of the placental structures, in others to changes in the internal organs of the foetus, accompanied perhaps by cutaneous eruptions. When the foeticidal effect is escaped, the child may be born with syphilitic manifestations upon the surface : this, how- ever is exceptional—for, as a general rule, the signs of diathesis only appear after birth, a certain period of apparent good health intei-vening. This period of latency rarely exceeds one month ; and when the third month has elapsed without the appearance of some sign of a syphilitic infection, there is no likelihood that any such symptoms will occur. Congenital syphiHs is characterized by a shrivelled, lean condition of body; the general aspect and expression being those of " a little old man." The skin generally presents a dirty coffee and milk tint; that of the nates, vulva, or scrotum, becomes of a smooth glazed apj)earance, and of copper colour—ending in desquamation and cracking, or in be- : coming moist and oozy. The mouth and throat are affected at the same time with condylomatous patches ; occupying especially the angles of the . lips, the throat, and nostrils, and accompanied with puckering of the mouth, a hoarse cry, snuffling breathing, and running from the nose. Iritis may occur about the same period ; and that more frequently than has commonly been supposed—usually of the tubercular form. PemjjMgus of the surface frequently appears ; but is not necessarily pathognomonic of syphilis, without some of the other symptoms just mentioned co- existing. At a somewhat later period, edhymatous or impetiginous pustules show upon the surface, forming crusts or ulcers; and affections of the periosteum and bones may also occur. In fatal cases, the internal organs have usually been found affected; the liver becoming enlarged, globular, and hard; the lungs and thymus-gland suppurating; and, in some cases, peritonitis is developed. Before death, vomiting and diarrhoea usually set in. In congenital cases, especially where the disease is inherited from the mother, induration of the liver may be expected ; this seeming to occuj^y tlie place of the induration of the chancre and of the lymphatic glands which occurs in the acquired disease. In children who have in infancy suffered from congenital syphiUs, a paucity of the eyebrows and eyelashes, a tenuity of hair, with radiating lines surrounding