VAGINAL FISTULA. 12G2 thero may be a dischargo of urino, per vaginam, from the first The patient is in constant discomfort and suffering. In spite of every atten- tion, congestion and excoriation of the external parts ensue ; and if con- stant diligence is not applied to maintain cleanliness both of person and dress, the patient's proximity may be noisome to others. As the chasm closes, the discharge diminishes. In some rare cases, spontaneous closure may be complete. In the great majority, an aperture remains ; sometimes such as will barely admit a common director; sometimes a loathsome chasm, admitting several fingers. The aperture usually is in the mesial aspect belaind the origin of the urethra ; it may be longitudinal, oblique, or transverse. It can be felt by the finger ; and may be best disclosed by the Marion Sims' duck-bill speculum figured in the margin. In consequence of this canal having sufiered other injuries, it may become distorted and irregular; and the discovery of the fistula, if small, may in consequence be very diffi- cult. Detection is effected by placing a metallic catheter in the bladder, and examining the septum upon the catheter by a finger introduced per vagi- nam ; or a probe may be passed from the vagina through any sinus, till it come in contact "svith the catheter. In making this examination, the patient may be placed upon the bed or table resting upon her knees and elbows, with a good light falling directly on the parts; or the position recom- mended by Marion Sims may be adopted :—" A few require to be placed upon the knees, with the head and thorax depressed; but, in the great majority of cases, the patient may lie upon the left side. In this position, the thighs are flexed at about right angles with the pelvis, the right a more than the left. The left arm is thrown behind, and the chest rotated forwards, bringing the sternum quite closely in contact with the table, while the spine is fully extended, with the head resting on the parietal bone. The patient being thus rolled over as much as possible on the front, the assistant, standing at her back, elevates with the left hand the right side of the nates, while the right holds the speculum which draws up the perineum, allowing the pressure of the atmosphere to dilate the vagina, so as to bring every part of it into view." Urethro-vaginal Fistula denotes a preternatural communication be- tween the vagina and the urethra ; caused, ordinarily, by the impnulent Fig. 349. Speculum for vesico-vaginal fistula.—Sims. Pig. 349,