1077 RENAL CALCULUS. of the proper structure of tlie kidney; and consequent interruption to the function of that important organ. Indeed, under such circumstances, the parts have been found reduced to the condition of a cln-onic abscess ; tlie distended pelvis and infundibula being converted into a flocculent surface secreting much puriform fluid. And other dangers attend on the arrest; inflammatory disease, kindled in the obstructed part, may extend to the parts adjoining, and may involve the abdomen in peritonitis; or ulceration may take place, with perforation; and through the aperture fatal urinary extravasation may occur; or the calculus may find its way into the intestine. It has even been known to become arrested at the point where the ureter crosses the bifurcation of the common iliac artery, and setting up ulceration in the uruiary channel and the adjacent artery, to cause a fatal hemorrhage into the ureter and bladder. Complete obstruction by the arrest is fraught with utmost peril j distension of the pelvis and infundibula, rapid and great, is likely to cause suppression of urine—always most hazardous; there is a greater risk of suppuration and idceration than in the partial case; and the over-distended ureter may even give way by bursting. In the case of partial obstruction there is a chance—though a remote one—of ulceration proving chronic and sthenic ; preceded and accompanied by plastic formation, and consequent consolidation of tissues ; advancing towards the surface; and ultimately discharging the offending body externally. Or the calculus may remain in the ureter with partial obstruction ; as it enlarges, it usually assumes the form of an hour-glass, the increase of deposit taking place chiefly at either extremity ; and sooner or later death is the result. Occasionally, a descending stone has been known to become arrested in the termination of the ureter; one part Avithin the ureter, partially obstructing it; the other projecting into the cavity of the bladder, and receiving increase there ; constituting a troublesome variety of vesical calculus. A small smooth calculus may glide down the ureter imperceptibly. More frequently, descent is marked by symptoms. The patient is sick and vomits ; he is alarmed, feeling a change, and afraid of the result; he is attacked by cold chills and shivering; the pain shifts from the kidney, shoots downwards in the course of the ureter, and often down the middle of the corresponding hypogastric region and thigh—intense, and some- times almost insupportable ; the testicle is retracted and painful—the seat of neuralgia, or irritation; sometimes the irritation induces the inflam- matory process, and acute orchitis results. The pulse is comparatively little affected, but fever may at any time supervene, in consequence of inflammatory seizure in the ureter, kidney, bladder, or testicle. If arrest and obstruction take place, all the symptoms are much aggravated. In most instances the urinary secretion, by dilating the ureter, favours the onward progress of the calculus, and washes it into the bladder. Wlien, however, the obstruction is complete, and the other kidney insufficient, from old-standing disease of its secreting texture, to maintain a sufficient excretion of the elements of the urine, urtcmia with somnolence and fatal coma is almost certain to ensue. The treatment of renal calculus consists in favouring descent, and palliating the urgency of the symptoms. The warm bath relaxes ; opium does the same, and assuages pain ; purgatives and diuretics favour descent.