1066 OXALUllIA. of Dr. Golding Bird, who first investigated the form of its microscopic crystidlization, and the symptoms connected with its occurrence hi tlie early stages. It constitutes a species of very minute crystalline gravel, which readily escapes observation by the naked eye, in consequence of iho perfect transparency and absence of colour in the crystals. On care- ful observation, however, they may often be seen as mimite glistening points floating in the urine, which usually contains a slight excess of mucus, but is often nearly or absolutely clear. The crystals are probably precipitated within the organism in most instances ; they may, however, be absent from the urine on etnission, and be found in great abundance twenty-four hours afterwards. The mode in which they are retained in solution is not known, as the oxala of lime is exceedingly insoluble in water. With the exception of a rather high specific gravity, wliich is usual^ there is nothing very characteristic in the appearance of urine containin oxalate of lime. The amount of urea is generally large ; often, also, iiric acid and its salts are in excess, and sometimes they form deposi"" which co-exist or alternate with those of the oxalate. The earth Pig. 323. phosphates are likewise usually in excess in oxaluria, but are held in solution in consequence of the acidity of the secretion. The colour of the urine varies from a pale straw-colour to an amber tint, the latter being perhaps more common and characteristic. The urine in this disease generally, as already mentioned, deposits an excess of mucus ; and along with this there are sometimes found minute quantities of seminal fluid, as indicated by the presence of spermatozoa imder the microscope. The most usual form of the oxalate of lime as seen imder the microscope is that of octohedral crystals, generally not more than yrinr or of an inch in diameter, and often much less than this; always perfectly transparent, colourless, and exceedingly sharp and well defined Fig. 323. Oxalate of liine luidcr the microscope—From Donne.