840 OTORimCEA. tympanum, or of tlio mastoid colls. It is tliercforo essential to examine tlio nioatiis by Jiioans of the speculum, discliargc having been previously removed by gentle injection. For if the membrana tympani be found entire, and tolerably pound, the affection is so declared to be compara- tively simple—unless, indeed, necrosis or caries of the osseous meatus be its cause; whereas, if that membrane be found imperfect, denoting an internal origin of tlie suppuration, prognosis is rendered more guarded and unfavourable. It is equally important, however, to observe, that the inllammatory process, begun even in the external meatus, may at any time extend to the other parts, and thence to the contents of the cranium ; as, for in- stance, from the meatus and mastoid cells to the cerebellum or lateral sinus; in the former situation resulting in the formation of a chronic abscess in tbe medullary substance, in the latter by tbe supervention of thrombosis, and softening of the clot, inducing pyajmic symptoms. When the tympanic cavity is affected, the extended inflammatory process usually implicates, either singly or conjointly, the dura mater and middle lobe of the cerebrum. When the labyrinth is diseased—and this is usually conse- quent upon discharge of the ossicles after suppuration of the middle ears— the suppuration is often found to follow the course of the auditory nerve along its canal towards the medulla oblongata, Mr. Toynbee's remarks are worthy of remembrance on this point. " No person," says he, " suf- fering from chronic catarrhal inflammation of the dermoid layer of the meatus, the membrana tympani, or of the mucous membrane of the tympanum, can be assured that disease is not being prolonged to the temporal bone, the brain, and its membranes ; and that any ordinary exciting cause, as an attack of fever or influenza, a blow on the head, etc., may not induce the appearance of acute sjonptoms, which, as a general rule, are speedily fatal." Treatment is mainly palliative and expectant, as regards the pait; restorative as regards tlie system. The constitutional cachexy is to be combated by the usual means. The ear is kept clean by frequent and careful use of tepid water, without and within the meatus. The state of the mouth is looked to ; and, if need be, any offending teeth or stumps removed. Ee-accessions of inflammatory disease are averted or subdued, by occasional leeching and fomentation, as circumstances may require The chronic affection, wliich is maintaining the structural and functional disorder of the mucous membrane, is sought to be overcome by careful counter-irritation—such as blistering behind the ear and nape of the neck; this, however, being proceeded with cautiously, lest enlargement i of the cervical glands, wliich frequently is an accompaniment of otorrhoea, . shoidd be either induced or aggravated. Wlien nearly all the symptoms of inflammatory disease in the part have subsided, and when the general system has decidedly improved, weak astringents, injections, or direct applications, may be employed, to favour recovery of the membrane, and consequent cessation of the discharge. This part of the treatment, however, must always bo conducted with the greatest possible care; lest, by the irritation thereby produced, there should occur both sudden arrest of the discharge, and aggi-avation of the inflanmiatory process, in a deeper site. Such risk is in all cases to be apprehended, when