AUXILIAKIES TO THE TAXIS. 1015 1. Venesection is now-a-days rarely advisable. Before the intro- duction of chloroform, it was applicable in the comparatively young and robust, of inflammatory tendency, tolerant of loss of blood ; with a tight strangulation yet recent, marked signs of advancing acute disease in the parts, and the constitutional symptoms still evincing a sthenic type. In such circumstances, the copious and rapid abstraction of blood from the arm Avas of use, by both combating the advancing inflammatory afl'ec- tion, and at the same time tending to cause complete prostration of the muscular system of the abdominal parietes. 2. The warm-bath, having similar tendencies, was more generally applicable, inducing temporary depression; gaining the desired end, yet saving the system from actual loss. If there be time, this is still one of the best means of assist- ing the taxis. The patient is placed recumbent in the bath, with the abdominal parietes relaxed by posture ; and, when faintness is begin- ning to be complained of, the taxis is resolutely applied. It may fail; but the opportunity by the bath is not yet over. Let the patient be replaced in bed; in a few minutes he will be found deluged in perspiration, with a muscular system more prostrate than before ; and then the taxis is most likely to succeed. 3. Fomentation is inappli- cable ; as, by rarefying the gaseous contents, and favouring fluid accu- mulation in the sac, it could only increase the bulk of the tumour ; while it is too feeble and limited in its relaxing effect, to act favour- ably on the abdomen. 4. Antimony, as a nauseant and prostrating agent, is very inferior to the bath; adding greatly, and in a danger- ous degree, to the irritabihty of the stomach, and to the downward tendency of the constitutional symptoms. It is inapplicable. 5. And, for a like reason, let Tobacco be used very warily, if at all. By other, less hazardous, and more manageable auxiliaries, our object may be as speedily obtained. 6. Ojjium, following blood-letting in cases of a marked inflammatory nature, or given singly in others, is productive of very satisfactory effects ; the dose, however, must be a full one— not less than two grains—for the adult. The beneficial effect is two- fold. Constitutionally, the system is rendered more tolerant of the de- pressing effects of strangulation ; the remedy being in fact equally useful here as in the case of intense abdominal inflammatory disease uncon- nected with hernia. Locally, very gi'eat service is obtained by muscular prostration, so soon as the full narcotic effects of the drug have been established. This requires time, however ; and consequently opium, hke the warm bath, is not applicable to all cases—at least as an auxi- liary of the taxis; for, in all, there is not time to await the opera- tion of the remedy. 7. Chloroform, as has elsewhere been stated, is almost equally serviceable here as in dislocation ; producing thorough relaxation, not aggravating collapse, quickly passing off, and leaving no unpleasant trace behind. At the present day it is chiefly depended upon as an auxiliary; in fact, in recent and acute cases, when the taxis has failed after having been given a fair trial, with the patient deeply under the influence of chloroform, it is rarely expedient to wait longer, or resort to the use of any other means before having recourse to operation. 8. Olysters of acetate of lead, each containing ten grains dissolved in about six ounces of water, have been employed with sue-