1205 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. spasm and tlie iiillammatory process. Anil it is well to limit the use of terms thus : uudcrstanding " spasmodic stricture " and " inflamed stricture " to be aggravations of true organic stricture in one or other of these ways ; understanding the terms " spasm of the urethra" and " urethritis," to include the condition of temporary narrowing of the canal by spasm and the inflammatory process ; and understanding by " stricture," an organic change in the urethra, causing a narrowing o£ the canal, which may be altogether independent both of spasm and of existing inflammatory disease. But stricture results from the inflammatory process, in and near the urethra ; and this, as we have seen, may be excited in various Avays. 1. It may follow the application of a source of irritation to its mucous membrane, as happens in gonorrhoea ; and this is perhaps its most fre- quent cause. Clap is of common occurrence ; the inflammatory process, in the chronic or gleety stage, is often of long duration, as Avell as of a kind to favour plastic change in the Submucous tissues, without the use of injections having anything to do with the formation of the struc- tural change ; at the same time, treatment by injection may be so mis- conducted, as to cause aggravation of such affection when it has once commenced. 2. Stricture may follow a chronic inflammatory process, always of a minor grade—never reaching beyond textural irritation— occasioned by constant excitement of the canal; as by excess in venereal indulgence, or by an acrid state of the urine. The latter is no uncom- mon cause ;' the urine may be unduly acid, or concentrated, or hold- ing in suspension more or less deposit; the irritated bladder is emptied frequently ; and, on each occasion, the urethra smarts under the passage of the urine. At length, a continued state of irritation of the canal is induced ; producing not only discharge from the free surface of the mucous membrane, but also a certain amount of submucous i^lastic change which permanently remains. 3. External injury may be the exciting cause ; lacerating the canal, wholly or partially, at some point, and admitting of retraction of the torn textures and separate cicatrization ; besides, in most cases, lighting up an active inflammatory process in and around the injured part, and tending to much solid product—not always amenable to absorption. Hence, blows and kicks on the perineum are found to produce the worst forms of the affection. A less amount of violence, often repeated, may induce gradual formation of stricture ; as. by contusion of the perineum on the saddle, in dragoons or others much employed on horseback. Also, there is good ground for suspecting, that the disease not unfrequently originates in the unskilful or unnecessary use of bougies, lithontriptors, and other instruments. 4. Ulceration of the urethra cannot well heal, without causing more or less contraction of the canal ; and this ulceration may be either of a common or of a specific kind. Such ulceration was at one time frequently induced by the use of caustic potash in the treatment of strictures of the urethra. There is no more troublesome form of that disease than contraction of the orifice, in consequence of cliancre situated there; and it is not unlikely that such specific ulceration may extend backwards beyond this point, even as far as the bulb, and thus act as the cause of stricture in its most common sites.