825 OTOREHCEA. Inflammatoiij Affections of the Meatus. Tho external auditory canal may participate in any of the diflerent inflammatory aifections, to which we have seen the auricle is subject, and may either suffer with it or separately. So long as the inflammatory pro- cess is strictly external to the memhrana tympani, the affection, although ti-oublesome and painful, if acute, readily yields to appropriate treatment; but in many cases it is accompanied by, and is symptomatic of, deeper- seated mischief, implicating the periosteum, the fibrous layers of the memhrana tympaui, or even the cavity of the tympanum and the mastoid cells. The most common form of acute inflammatory affection of the external meatus, is that depending upon suppuration taking place within one or more of the ceruminous folHcles, which are situated in a ring within the cartilaginous portion of the tube; and on looking into the meatus, the site of the abscess can generally be recognised by observing the pea-like sweUing of the lining membrane, the greater degree of congestive redness, and the comparative pain on pressure with a probe, at the affected point. The speculum is not required in these cases. The pain and tension are always considerable, and may, in childi-en, create even febrile reaction of the system. The symptoms usually abate in- about eight days, or so soon as the matter makes its way into the meatus.. But in some cases it tends to burrow externally to the cartilaginous canal, and sometimes points anteriorly to the tragus. These cases are apt to be confounded with acute periostitis of the osseous canal; a much more, serious, painful, and tedious affection. In the early stage of abscess of the ceruminous glands, fomentation, poulticing, or the introduction of a bit of cotton wool soaked in a watery solution of opium, will afford great relief; and so soon as bulging ren- ders the nature of the affection obvious, an incision into the miniature abscess, with an iris knife, will evacuate a bead of pus and afford relief Wlien the abscess points in front of the tragus, it should be opened there. The inflammatory process affecting the cutaneous lining of the meatus, usually produces one of two different results. In one the skin becomes rawny, thickened, glossy, and dry, with a sense of painful itching and aching; the swelhng is sometimes such that the canal is nearly occluded, while the sensitiveness of the auricle and meatus is greatly increased. This, when acutely induced, will readily yield to leeching witliin the lioUow of the auricle, or anteriorly to the tragus, with the use of fomen- tation, or the appHcation of wadding soaked in warm oil, to the surface of the auricle. When the inflammatory symptoms are chronic, paint- ing the ear with a solution of nitrate of silver (ten grains to the ounce), "V the use of the weak citrine ointment pencilled over the surface when it has been rendered fluescent by heat, will be found to answer better" than any other method of medication—such as putting cotton in tho irs, or the use of oil and laudanum, or oil of thyme mixed with almond il, which constitute the popular remedies for this affection. In the other form a serous secretion is exhaled; and, mixed with ins, forming a discharge from the canal, is more or less of desquamated 'iticle, in scales, patches, or masses. This discharge is sometimes of a