307 NECROSIS. the living parts will continue to resent its presence. So much of the inflammatory process is sustained in its immediate vicinity, as is essential towards the work of separation; while a minor grade of the process continues to pervade the whole neighbouring parts. The substitute bone is busily advancing; in the soft parts, plastic product is still in the ascendant, and absorption is doing but little towards remodelling the limb. Besides, the soft parts become increased in vascularity, sometimes to a very considerable degree ; so that when incised—and they cut like a piece of gristle, rather than ordinary soft textures—hemorrhage is invariably profuse; not only because the vessels are both active and numerous, but also in consequence of natural hemostatics being opposed by the dense structural change in which the vessels are imbedded. Should inflammatory reaccession occur, the symptoms may all be renewed with their pristine severity. And if the newly-formed pus be so situated as not to find a ready exit, it is not improbable that serious extension of the original necrosis may ensue. Thus it may happen that necrosis, at first limited to but a small part of laminated texture, may idtrmately involve, not only the whole thickness, but almost the whole extent of a bone. When the sequestrum has become wholly detached from the living bone, it does not always seem loose. For it may, at more than one poiut, be bound down by the tight embrace of the new cortical forma- tion ; or, as already mentioned, newly-formed texture—granulation-tissue may—be interwoven with its cribriform parts. Or new bone may be deposited, in points or patches, so closely on the dead part's surface, as actually to re-establish their continuity. Or new bone, like the softer textures, may interlace the cribriform spaces of the sequestrum. Gene- rally, however, so soon as detachment is complete, the sequestrum is more or less movable ; as the finger or probe will testify. And if not then artificially removed—as it should be—it will spontaneously seek the surface, and project there—provided there be space left for its exit through the cortical formation; the protruded portion becoming black- ened, apparently through atmospheric influence. As a general rule, it may be safely held that a dead portion of bone, which is protruding through an external opening in the soft parts, has been completely loosened from its connection wdth the living bone; and that if it seem fixed, it can only be on account of secondary retention in one or other of the ways just mentioned—most probably by cortical embrace. Sometimes the substitute itself perishes, by inflammatory accession ; a result not at all improbable, when we consider how active the nutritive processes have been in determining the different changes through wliicli it has passed within a recent period. And this affords another reason, why such inflammatory reaccession should be anxiously provided against, throughout the whole period of repair. Should the superimposed soft parts happen to become the seat of hospital-sore, the substitute cannot fail to be more or less exposed and involved ; and may consequently die and come away, in whole or io part. The time occupied by the various changes is extremely various. In acute external necrosis, of very limited extent, as in the phalanges of the fingers, many days may not elapse between the first onset of the inflam-