20 CAUSES OF THE INFLAMMATORY PROCESS. seen in blood drawn from chlorotic,* as well as from pregnant females; from patients affected by sanguineous plethora, or from any one in whom circulation and change of structui-e have been much accelerated, as by violent exercise ; in patients suffering from albuminuria ; and, in the horse, as the normal state of the blood. On the other hand, we know that an active and most serious inflammatory affection may be present, while in the blood the ordinary inflammatory characters can be but faintly traced. These are but the exceptions ; yet exceptions all im- portant to the practitioner; inasmuch as, while the presence of the bufl'y coat alone will not warrant him in reckless expenditure of blood, neither will its absence, during urgency of other symptoms of inflammatory disease, be in itself any sufficient reason for Mdthholding active remedies. Again :—the buffed and cupped appearances vary according to the texture and organ involved. The inflammatory process affecting the skin in erysipelas, or the fibrous tissues, as in rheumatism, invariably produces a high degree of change; wliile a much more formidable disorder may be advancing in the brain substance, and be unaccompanied by any such change in the blood. The inflammatory process, occurring in a part richly endowed with lymphatics, gives much of the buffy coat; and its presence seems to be directly in proportion to the abundance of the deve- lopment of these vessels in the part implicated. Ccmses of the Inflammatory Process. These have been divided into, 1. Predisposing; 2. Exciting; 3. Maintaining ; 4. Proximate. Bu.t as the last is really the change in the nutrition of the part itself—the phenomena of the disease, already con- sidered—we have to do only with the three first. 1. Predisposing Causes.—These may act through the general system, or directly on the part itself, or in both ways. 1. Unwonted excitaljility may reside in a part or in the system, by exaltation of the nervous function. When occurring locally, it manifestly predisposes to the inflammatory process, whose first movement, apart from the direct in- fluence produced on the cell structures of the part, consists in an impres- sion made by the exciting cause on the nutrition of the j)art through the medium of the nervous system. By strained use, for instance, the eye has its nutritive and nervous activity so exalted, that from even a slight cause an attack of ophthalmia is favoured. 2. Plethora may be general or local. The former—either the result of original temperament, or casually induced, as by excess in diet— may, by the abundance of material which it supplies, afford increased * Arrangement of fibrin to constitute the bufiy coat, does not depend so much on actual increase of the fibrin, as on its proportional excess over the red corpuscles. In chlorosis, the latter are very much diminished in quantity, wlule fibrin may be abundant. The simply excited condition of the circulation, with or without organic change, is not capable of establishing such proportional excess of fibrin ; a local inflammatory change must be present. That is the laboratory whence tlie change issues ; without it, as in ordinary continued fever, fibrin is deficient both actually and relatively.