557 CONSEQUENCES OF DISLOCATION. treatment for reduction is adopted, thereafter—when satisfied as to the existence of a luxation—the better it is for both patient and surgeon. The longer the period which elapses between infliction of the injury and the attempts at reduction, the greater are the difficulties and dangers which are to be encountered. Aniestbesia contributes greatly to accuracy of diagnosis ; obtaining two most important results. The patient suffers no pain, however free or protracted the examination ; and, the muscles being thoroughly re- laxed, the siu-geon performs his manipulations with as much facility as on a dead body. Besides, it is not unlikely that subsequent inflammatory accession will prove less than if the examination had been made on a suffering and resisting patient. Dislocation of the hip may be simulated by morbus coxarius ; but inquiry into the history of the case will sufficiently guard the practitioner against error. It is between fracture and dislocation that we are likely to be most in doubt. And it may be well here to repeat, shortly, the leading points of distinction. In dislocation, there is no true crepitus , motion, both voluntary and involuntary, is limited ; the bone may be traced, entire, throughout its whole extent; simple extension will not restore due length to the limb; change of relative position is distinct, and, like shortening of the limb, cannot be altered aright until reduction has been effected—and then the alteration is permanent; application of the displacing force is usually indirect. Also, it is not unimportant to remember, that fracture is most common at an advanced age ; while dis- locations are seldom found but in the adolescent and adult, and most fre- quently in the latter. Occasionally, dislocation is complicated with fracture. The fibula is usually broken in dislocation of the tibia; in dislocation of the hip, the acetabulum may be either chipped, or broken through; in dislocation of the elbow, the coronoid process of the ulna may be detached. And examination of the injury should always be conducted with a view to the possibility of this occurrence. For if fracture co-exist, the retentive means must be much more carefully adjusted and maintained than in simple dislocation. The consequences of dislocation are important. The muscles—at first relaxed, during continuance of the shock of injury—become rigid in a few hours ; and, if unopposed, tend, as in fracture, to resist our efforts to reduce the displacement. After a time, they accommodate themselves to their new relative position. If stretched by the displacement, they become permanently elongated: if relaxed, they become actually short- ened, and condensed in bulk. If a muscle or tendon have been detached from its origin or insertion, it becomes fixed anew, by plastic change. If muscular fibre have been torn, the space is filled by an adventitious structure of ligamentous appearance and density; for some time more bulky than the vacancy which it is intended to occupy. The rent in the capsular ligament, as well as that in the exterior fibrous apparatus, be- comes clo-sed by adhesion to adjacent parts. A new cavity of reception begins to be fonned for the displaced bone. If it rest on muscle, this becomes dense, ligamentous, smooth, and lubricated; hollowed of a siiitablo form, for the play of the bono. If it rest on bone, a cavity is