716 CATAKACT. adjacent softoned fibres of the lens are then the portions affected; and this form of cataract may, when further advanced, present a sliglitly creamy aspect frona actual fatty degeneration of the lenticular tissue Examining the margins of the cataractous lens (and in that portion of it at the lower part of the pupil the change is most easily observed), the altered fibres have the appearance of radiating streaks, those situated anteriorly presenting a convex curved aspect, those posteriorly a concave curve. These stria? are, however, only seen in the early stage of the affection; as the breaking up of the superficial cells and fibres gives to the lens, as the cataract advances in its development, more or less of a uniform, grey, white, bluish, or amber hue—constituting the Radiated form of Cataract. As can be easily understood, in these cases vision will for some time prove better with a contracted than with a dilated pupil. In examining an eye affected with cataract by means of the ophthal- moscope, no advantage is gained by use of the condensing lens ; the trans- mitted light at once reveals any opacity which is decided. In commencing cataract, again, the bright glare from the ophthalmoscope sometimes serves to obscure the slight opacities which as yet are alone present, and certainly does not render them so apparent as does daylight concentrated upon the lens with a magnifying glass of about one-inch focus. By means, however, of the ophthalmoscope at this early period, we are enabled to determine the condition of the fundus of the eye, and thus to facilitate our prognosis as to the propriety of arterwards resorting to operative treatment. Cataracts vary as to density. Hard cataract is most frequent in the old; and is characterized by its brownish, amber, or absolutely blac tint. The lens is apparently shrunk in its dimensions, and the gi-eatest amount of opacity is central. The iris is free and movable ; the appear- ance of a dark ring, from the transparency of the media, surrounding the- cataract, is sometimes remarkably distinct. In such cases, vision is im- proved in the twilight, as also after the use of atropine. Soft cataract, of fluid or semifluid consistence, is large and bulging, and complete! occupies the pupil. It is most common in the young and middle aged' and is characterized by its bluish-white or milky colour. The iris ma^ even be clogged in its movements, from the increased size of the lens' and the impairment of vision is great. The opacity is not always homo geneous ; dots or streaks are occasionally observed on it; and these ma;^ change their form and site from time to time, and tend to gravitat downwards. The hard and soft cataract are not, however, differen morbid conditions ; for every hard cataract jDossesses merely the norma; density of the lens, its fibres becoming atrophied ; and superficial soften: ing always occurs in every cataract, if only time be allowed for thi.- change to take place. Sometimes the softening becomes complete, thi capsule of the lens containing a milky or flocculent fluid This is called the Morgagnian cataract. The appearance presented by this last form & closely resembles that of a lens which has undergone cretaceous chang' that the only means we possess of making a distinction is by observing whether there is any gravitation of the flocculent particles of which i seems to be composed—this occurring only in a fluid cataract.