637 PARACENTESIS CAPITIS. rritation and uniform pressure on the head. These may be expected to je attended with comparatively satisfactory results, when the disease is ipparently due to a syphilitic taint, in either of the parents, having been iommunicated to the unfortunate child. Failing these, the question irises Avhether the patient is to be abandoned to his fate, or an attempt aade to save him by tapping. Some, acting on the principle " ancejjs medium melius quam nullum' operate; the majority decline interference. Itatistics, in the aggregate, as we have seen, hold out no flattering pro- pect of success. At the same time, in an otherwise hopeless case, if the arents, on a fair and full representation of every circumstance having leen made to them, are willing and desirous to undertake the risk, there Bsms to be no insuperable reason against the operation being then per- jrmed. One of three events may occur ; death may ensue speedily ; or latters may be left much as they were, the head refilling; or a cure lay be effected. Hoping for the last, the surgeon proceeds thus :—■ A small trocar is introduced perpendicularly through the bregma, or a the coronal suture, at a safe distance from the longitudinal sinus and B feeding veins j and it is seldom necessary to penetrate further than bout two inches. "Withdrawing the trocar, clear serum flows through e canula, and the more gradually it escapes the better; compensating iressure beiag at the same time made on the head, by the hands of an istant. Should the pulse become quick, the pupils contract, and ,e face suddenly change its expression, the floAv is stopped for a me. Taintness occurring, the child is laid horizontal, and a few drops ammonia given in water. Sometimes blood comes thrtiugh the ,nula, a sign that a vein has been punctured ; * sometimes the flow |ecomes obstructed by a portion of brain, and the canula requires to be eared by a probe. After enough has been drained away, the wound is shut by means colloclion, and the whole head is carefully and uniformly supported by astic strapping. Should sHght cerebral excitement follow, it is well; T success is most probable in such healthful result being in- ced by the excitement, as after injection of hydrocele. But in general, d doses of the hydrargyrum c. cret^ are useful, as a check against cess. And when this does occur, our main reliance will be placed on ercurial influence, with topical depletion by leeches. In the most favourable cases, we can scarcely expect a successful ue but by repetition of the tapping; and the amount of interval must regulated by circumstances. In iDut one case have I ventured to lerate. The first tapping proved highly satisfactory ; the seccmd ter- .ted fatally by convulsions. It has more recently been proposed to gect tincture of iodine into the cavity after the operation of simple ithdrawal of the fluid; in imitation of the successful results wliicli •ve followed a like treatment, in cases of the analogous disease of drorachls. The conditions are, however, so different, that putting ■together out of sight the consideration of the direct irritation and in- ■mniatory danger to the brain membranes, and only looldng at the «5t8 of rapid re-effusion, which we know constantly follows upon the gection of tmcture of iodine, such treatment appears quite inadmis- * Watson's Lectures, Medical Gazette, March 18il.