DISFASE OF THE VERTEBR/K. RheumatiG arthritis and ostitis fixiquently afiFect the vertebraj of the dorsal and cervical regions ; producing gradually sucli change, by curva- ture from softening of the bones, and anchylosis from ossification of the intervertebral cartilages—with stalactitic osseous deposits external to the bone—as to render the spine both greatly deformed and rigid. The cur- vature is a combination of the antero-posterior and lateral distortions. The affection occurs chiefly in tlie adult and aged, and is the source of the gradual bowing and shortening of the trunk observed in senility, and usually regarded as a natural change. The disease is, generally, in well-marked cases, preceded by other indications of a gouty or rheumatic diathesis ; and it seldom or never progresses continuously, but has well- marked intermissions—distortion being very gradually attained. It requires the treatment of the rheumatic diathesis, witli the employment of measures calculated to relieve pain, and check the local inflammatoi-y progress to which the change is due. Disease of the Bodies of the Vertehrce. Interstitial softening by absorption of the calcareous elements of the osseous texture, and the substitution of medullary tissue in its stead, frequently occurs in the vertebrae, in connection with curvature of different kinds, as already stated ; whereby a distortion, at first remediable, becomes ultimately, when ossification is complete, confirmed and un- alterable. It also occurs of an inflammatory type, as a primary affec- tion, in the bodies of the vertebrae ; usually as a prelude to a rapid transformation into gramdation tissue, which results in suppuration ^nd carious ulceration. More rarely, in young persons, it exists as a separate and distinct disease ; implicating several vertebras, and causing dis- placement by curvation forwards at the affected part. Here, again, complete ossification, following after a time, confirms the curve by con- solidation. Treatment is by absolute rest, the use of tonics, cod-liver oil, and good food. Counter-irritation, unless pain is markedly present, is uncalled for and ill-borne. Continuous Absorption, and progressive removal of the whole osseous elements, occur in the bodies of the vertebrae, as the residts of pres- sure ; as is seen in the gradual action of an aneurismal tumour, or in the progressive involvement of the texture by the development of a cancerous or other growth originating elsewhere, and pressing upon the bone. Caries, o?' ulcerative destruction of the bodies of the Vertebrae—Potfs disease—is a most formidable affection, and unfortiuiately not of rare occurrence. It is the ordinary cause of the acute antero-posterior curvature, usually termed angular. When, however, the disease affects only a small portion of the bone, or when the extent of the vertebral substance, undergoing the preliminary inflammatory softening, is so great, that the patient at an early period is obHged to maintain the horizontal position—there may be no distortion whatever ; but these modifying con- ditions are rare compared to the frequency of the disease, and the exist- ence of the characteristic deformity. The friends of the patient usually attribute its origin to external injury ; but althougli this is sometimes