CATARACT. 7U as it does what a numhor of tangible and non-tangible morbid conditions are collected together under the title of Amaurosis, tliat the treatment of the disease must not be one of mere routine. The leeching, blistering, mercurializing, followed by the use of stryclinine and tonics, with gal- vanism, which used, before the introduction of the ophthalmoscope, to constitute the routine practice in such cases, should now-a-days most certainly not be resorted to, unless there is an obvious indication of the presence of some recent inflammatory cliange in the one instance, or some source of nervous debility in the other, wliich can be influenced by those remedies. At the same time, it should not be too hastily assumed ia our prognosis, that because there is a limited intra-retinal extravasation present there is no advantage to be had from antiphlogistic treatment; for frequently the extravasation is due to the presence of some degree of the inflammatory process; nay, the extravasation may constitute an exciting cause of this ; and in such circumstances, under the use of leeching, blistering, and the cautious employment of mercurials, vision has materially improved, the retinal and choroidal congestion has dis- appeared—the extravasated blood itself remaining long, and apparently only slightly interfering with the integrity of vision. When, however, the central portion of the retina is the part affected, or when the greater part of the retina has been stripped up by the extravasation, though we may prevent further mischief by such treatment, we need not anticipate anything like a restoration of useful sight. If the disease be apparently but a secondary symptom, as it were, of some constitutional malady—as jaundice or hysteria—that malady is to be thoroughly eradicated from the system, if possible. If intestinal,, uterine, or prostatic irritation exist, or be suspected, it is to be treated by the ordinary means. In short, the predisposing and exciting causes should, if possible, be ascertained and removed. Where the presence of an intracranial tumour may with reason be suspected, no advantage can be derived from any treatment directed towards its eradication ; although where it apparently induces attacks of a congestive kind, accompanied with sudden deterioration of vision, benefit will certainly accrue from the application of a few leeches, and the administration of a smart purgative. The possibility of the previous occurrence of syphilitic infection should never be lost sight of, for in some such cases wonderful results have followed the employment of mercurials and iodide of potassium, with repeated blisters. Affections of the Crystalline Lens and Capsule. Cataract. The term Cataract is applied to opacity of the crystalline lens or its capsule. It is said to be lenticular, when the disease is situated in the lens itself j capsular when the capsule only is opaque ; and capsulo- lenticular, when both the lens and its capsule are afl^cted. Kecent investigation has thrown doubt upon the existence of any such thing as a capsular cataract. In cases of this kind, the superficial lenticular cells