ULCER OF BONE. 287 constitutional disorder, severe, and of the sthenic inflammatoiy type. Matter forms, and is discernible in the soft parts ; deep, in contact with the bone. It approaches the surface at one or more points, and is dis- charged by either ah artificial or spontaneous aperture. Soon there- after, the inflammatory fever may pass into hectic. The acute stage —abscess—has gone by j the chronic stage—necrosis—has become esta- blished. Treatment should be both active and early, both general and local, as in acute ostitis and periostitis. When matter has formed, free incision is required ; not to prevent necrosis—for that is impossible—^but to limit its extent, and favour the natural process of cure. Ulceration of Bone. This may be simple and tractable—Ulcer ; or peculiar, and difficult of cure—Caries. 1. Simjple Ulcer of bone is the ordinary product of an advanced in- flammatory process ; as in the analogous condition of the soft tissues. The inflammatory process is invariably its direct cause. As a soft tex- ture may inflame, suppurate, and ulcerate, so may bone ; the inflamma- tory process originating in, and, as a destructive process, mainly limited to, the ulcerated part. When an abscess, forming in connection with bone or its periosteum, is evacuated, it might be supposed that the rough spicular surface of bone has been produced by the pressure of the matter " eroding" the bone, or causing ulceration. This, however, is a mistake. The disease of the bone has given rise to the suppuration, not the suppu- ration to it. When continuous pressure acts upon bone, we have already seen that it produces absorption ; and so, wlien pus, pent up within the interior of a bone, works its way to the surface, the aperture or cloaca by which it escapes is not formed by ulceration, nor does it present any of the appearances of ulcer in bone. It is formed by continuous absorp- tion, and its surface is covered by a smooth membranous expansion like the pyogenic membrane of an abscess. The destructive process is simple, like its analogue in the soft tex- tures. It commences in the same structural changes, already described as attending upon the inflammatory process in bone. First, the bone becomes more porous, its lacunae enlarged, its cancelli confluent from absorption of their walls, its Haversian canals enlarged, its textures more vascular and succulent. Then suppurative death of the lacunar corpuscles in a limited area is accompanied with breaking down of the calcareous texture, which depends on them for nourishment; and while the ulcera- tion extends, this death and suppuration of cell structure, and molecular disintegration, must commensurately continue. Whenever the in- flammatory process which determines these fatal results diminishes from its destructive grade, ulceration also ceases, and the process of re- pair succeeds. The healing process is quite analogous to what takes place in the soft parts. There are constructive results of the inflamma- tory process, as in the heahng ulcer of soft parts, more particularly in the neighbouring bone; and this new matter is converted into bone, constituting, in the macerated specimen, osseous spicula. By these the