881 STRICTURE OF THE WINDPirE. ablo to restovo tlie nonnal calibre ami function in such cases, by dilata- tion, as in similar affections of other mucous canals. The experiment has been made ;* but the present voice of experience is as yet scarcely in favour of the measure—except in the case of contraction after wound. Life may often be protracted, however, and suffering- alleviated, by continued use of the tracheo- tomy tube, of full size ; and by unremitting attention to keep both tube and trachea free from accumulation of viscid mucus. The latter indication may become of easy fulfilment, in consequence of the tracheal and bronchial membrane losing much ol its sensibility— becoming almost cutaneous in this respect, and not resenting a tolerably free use of probe, feather, sponge, or other means employed for clearing the passage. Formation of Matter near the Larynx. Diffuse infiltration of purulent matter may take place, deeply, in the neck ; and the consequent swell- ing and tension may seriously impede respiration, by encroachiug on the canal of the windpipe. The proper remedy is free incision of the infiltrated part, whereby both cause and effect are at once removed. Should this fail, or should the symptoms prove obscure so as not to warrant or even indicate incision, tracheotomy is certainly advisable. Cu'cumscribed abscess may form in the vicinity of the larynx. And * Liston, Elements, p. 453. Fig. 300. Fig. 300. Double stricture of the trachea; the canal decidedly dilated on the lower aspect of the second contraction. " The patient had worn a small silver tube in an opening in his windpipe for many years. It was originally introduced on account of long-continued disease of the larynx, with dreadftil suffering and constant sense of impending suffocation. He could not he made to dispense with the tube entirely, as he felt immediately on the wound closing a threatening of return of his painful and angerous symptoms. A small one was substituted for that at first used. He led a ery irregular life, iised a vast quantity of opium, and no small amount of spirituous quors. He used to be out in the open air occasionally all night, and suft'ered re- tedly under attacks of bronchitis. He was under treatment again and again in he hospital, on account of rheumatic affection and deranged digestive organs. He ed occa.sionally to present himself, complaining of difficult breathing, and stating hat his silver tube was too short. He could articulate tolerably well when he opped with his finger the orifice of the silver tube ; at all times a part of the re- 'red air passing through the natural channel. Latterly, he used to suffer from hreatening of suffocation, and he used to relieve himself of the cause of this, viz., the nspissated and ropy mucus which got entangled in the trachea, then not suspected 0 he in a diseased state, by pushing through the opening in his neck, and into the ronchi, long turkey's feathers ; of these he carried a good store, and some are now my possession. This feat he performed without causing the slightest excitement r fioughing. Ultimately, and about twelve years after the operation had been per- irniod, lie died, principally from diseased viscera. "—Liston. Fi'dc Klcmo.nlia of ni-Kfry, p. 4.^4. 3 L