9G COUNTER-OPENINQ. Sometinios—indeed not nnfrequently—tlie cavity of an abscess con- tracts only to a certain extent; and then l)econies stationary, or begins to extend in an opposite direction. This may happen in the acute form ; but is much more likely to occur in the chronic. The opening which was originally dependent, and sufficient for effectually draining the whole space, may in consequence become insufficient; and a new aperture—or Counter-opening, as it is termed—consequently becomes necessary. It is made ia the same way as the original opening; its site being chosen so as, along with the original, to command a complete drainage of the cavity in every part. It may happen that when the abscess has been large, undulating in its outline originally, or prone to subsequent exten- sions, two or more such counter-openings may be required. In abscess of the scalp, for example, a plurahty of wounds is often essential to effi- cient drainage. Chassaignac inserts small caoutchouc tubes, in abscesses which are large and irregular, with a view to thorough drainage, as one would tile-drain a field. Sometimes the lodgment of these foreign bodies produces hurt- ful irritation; in other cases, the practice is not unsuccessful. On the whole, however, the skilful use of the opening and counter-opening, with support and stimulating injection, renders such mechanical appliances unnecessary. Sometimes the cavity fails to contract obliteratively, notwithstanding that the opening is in every way suitable. It may be that the patient's system is so exhausted, that while pus continues to be discharged, the surfaces do not unite, granulation being defective, and the centripetal movement of the original textures exhausted. Under such circumstances, we desire to excite a fresh inflammatory stimulus by acting on the part, or on the system, or on both ; hoping thus to obtain an increased supply of plastic material fitted for repair. If there be but one opening, stimu- lating injections, varied in strength according to circumstances, may fulfil the indication, aided by pressure. If there be two openings, a few threads of silk may be passed through, and retained in the track for some days, after the manner of a seton. At the same time the general system is suitably attended to. Sinus. When the cavity of an open abscess has by contraction d-\vindled dovm into a mere canal, lined by a perfectly-formed pyogenic membrane, the condition is termed a Sinus. The discharge is thin, containing few globules; and resembling rather a depraved mucous than a truly puru- lent secretion. Left to itself, this state of matters might continue for a very long period. The first thing to be done, is to ascertain the extent and form of the sinus. For this purpose, the ordinary silver probe is used; blunt- pointed, and pliable ; and passed with all gentleness, yet with a cm'ious care—so as to avoid perforation of previously sound texture, at the same time obtaining an accurate cognizance of the existing space. The former error is chiefly to be guarded against; as being both the more serious and more likely to occur. The probe has not unfrequently been