975 WOUNDS OF TIIK HEART. iuflictioii of the wouiul. The size of the wound, its situation, or the mode of its infliction, do not seem to inlhience the result ao much as the direction in which it has passed, with reference to the fibres of this ov^an. In man, while the smallest punctures, such as those with a needle or pin, have proved speedily fatal, more serious injuries have been long survived or even recovered fi'om. Dr. Grace of Cupar-Fife attended a patient, who died in two days after puncture of the right auricle of the heart with a large needle. Villeneuve, the French admiral opposed to Nelson at Trafalgar, who died suddenly, is said to have committed suicide in tliis way. Dr. Murray Dobie had under his care, when a house-surgeon in the Infirmary, a child which died witliin a few days after a punctiu-e of the heart with a darning needle. The Due de Eerri lived only eight hours after a wound of the right auricle with a saddler's awl. In 1728, a gentleman attached to the Sardinian Court died suddenly, from a puncture with a golden needle inflicted by his wife when he was asleep. On the other hand, in the fourteenth volume of the Medical Gazette, the case of a boy is narrated who lived five weeks after the transfixion of the right ventricle of the heart by a wooden pin three inches in length, which was found lodged there after death. "We also find the case of a patient who survived three weeks with a watchmaker's file run through both ventricles.* In the four- teenth volume of the Edinburgh Medical Journal, the case of a patient is narrated who hved fourteen days after a gunshot wound of the heart sustained at Corunna. M. Mantion mentions a case where, after death, a ball was found lodged in the substance of the heart, six years after the receipt of the wound. Dr. A. Christisont gives the dissection of a patient, a private of the 80th regiment, in whom a ball was found lodged in the left ventricle, more than two months after a gunshot wound received in the Burmese war ; seeming to have entered through a woimd in the lung, and passed into the heart along the pulmonary vein. The cause of death, in cases where the accident has proved fatal, has been hemorrhage, pericarditis, or sudden and fatal syncope some time after its infliction. In other cases, death has apparently ensued from some cause quite unconnected with the wound. When patients have recovered after such lesions, the presence of a cicatrix marking the line of wound and corresponding to a continuous track in the pericardium and external parts, or the presence of the foreign body either in the wound or lodged in one or other of the cavities of the heart, will suffice to prove that such an injury has really been inflicted. In stags, a cicatrix in the cardiac waU, with the bullet lying loose in the ventricular cavity, has been observed with sufficient frequency to render the possibility of recovery after a wound of the cardiac wall, in man, quite within the range of possibility. The symptoms in wounds of the heart, besides the site of the injury, are those of great depression of the whole system, terminating in syncope and death from internal bleeding, or gradually rallied from, and at a later period followed by a fatal issue from reproduction of the hemorrhage, * Rcpertoir d' Anatomie et de Cliniquc Chirurgicalo. t Edin. Monthly Journal of Medical Science, Dec. 1852, pp. 551-2.