SCIEIUIUS. have been often progncont. The mamma, uterus, testicle, lip, skin, and mucous siufaces, ai'e the most frequent sites; and especially the first. On section the tumour is found to be of great density ; in this respect almost equal to cartilage ; it " cries" under the Imife, cutting like a raw potato or imripe pear. It consists of two distinct portions ; an in- terlacement of fibrous tissue, in the interstices of which a granular substance is laid, of a grey colour ; and the characteristic "juice" can be squeezed out readily. The general aspect of the section is dense, fibrous, and grey. Microscopically, scirrhus shews a distinct basis of fibrous tissue, be- tween the meshes of which are contained multitudes of cells of the kind already described. When the development of these cells can be observed, as for example in the connective tissue of muscular sheaths, or even in muscle itself, the nuclei of the connective tissue corpuscles in the one instance, and the nuclei contained within the sarcous substance in the other, are found to become multiplied. This multiplication continues till all trace of the connective tissue corpuscle or sarcolemma is destroyed; and then a mass of cancer-cells remains enclosed among the surrounding tissues, which in turn become implicated in the disease. And thus by the coalescence, partial or complete, of groups of cells originally formed separately within normal elementary structures, the diseased mass is formed ; presenting varieties of combination of original tissues with fibrous textures and cancer-cells, mingled in the apparently inextricable confusion which is to be seen in any fully developed cancerous growth. " What is called a tumour constitutes" therefore " a conglomerate mass, often extraordinarily large, made up of a number of little miliary foci (lobules), of which every single one must be referred to a single or a few parent elements."—(Yirchow.) In all cancerous formations, portions may be observed which by the naked eye are seen to be darker in colour than the rest. These are gene- rally of a yellowish tint; and are found to present very imperfect and often degenerate cancer-cells, as if the formative process had here stopped, and the disease were at this point retrograding. At the same time, there is commonly a larger quantity than usual of the granular product. In the mamma a number of yellowish opaque points are sometimes seen on the surface of a section; giviug, when pressed, a yellow juice, and leaving a somewhat reticulated arrangement. This is the Carcinoma reficulare of Muller, and indicates the incipient decay and fatty degene- ration of the cancer-cells, which are in such parts generally found more or less broken up, and loaded with granular matter (Fig. 62). When the tumour is original, it is seldom surrounded by any cyst or capsule; but extends diff"usedly into the surrounding texture, follow- ing the course of the connective tissue anastomoses ; being most rapid where their anastomoses are most free, and least so where they are absent .(bram and cartilage). Thus the communication from part to part is pre- cisely m the same manner as that by which the neighbouring lymphatic glands become affected, viz., by the circulation of a fluid formed in the tumour, and either containing contagious cell elements or being itself contagious. When it is of secondary formation, the cyst of the origi-