126 TREATMENT OF SLOUGHING SORES. has been converted into eschar; protecting the surrounding integument by carefully wiping up the fluid product, The part is then covered by a soft warm poultice; and this application is continued until the eschar begins to separate, when it may be conveniently superseded by warm- water dressing. Not unfrequently, this may be advantageously medicated by solutions of the chlorides of lime or soda; as correctives of foetor, and detergents. So soon as detachment has begun, a careful examination is made of the subjaceait part, more especially at the very margin, in order to ascer- tain whether the sloughing tendency has been arrested or not. If it has, a healthy surface will be found, either simply ulcerating, or already shewing signs of repair by granulation; and simple water-dressing Ls continued. If it has not, the ash-coloured slough will be found again forming ; or rapid destruction is seen advancing, in the phagsdajnic form. And then the escharotic must be at once and freely repeated; directing its operation chiefly to the margins, as there the chief tendency to exten- sion of the evil would seem to reside. If need be, such repetition is continued, until the destructive process has been finally and fully con- trolled. In the reapplications, nitric acid may be well superseded by the nitrate of mercury; not as a more efi&cient escharotic, but as a more suc- cessful alterative of the sore. It is liable to but one objection, namely, that a burning pain is not unlikely to continue for several hours. This is in part obviated, however, by simultaneous exhibition of the internal sedative and anodyne, as formerly advised ; or chloroform may be used, as a more thorough anesthetic. Whatever caustic is used, in no instance should preparatory drying of the part be omitted; it is as -necessary in the last application as in the first. Ee it likewise remembered, that this class of sore is communicable by contagion; that, consequently, much personal cleanliness is demanded towards each patient; and that, in hospital practice, all community of dressings, and every other circumstance likely to effect conveyance of the contagious matter, must be scrupulously avoided. In minor cases—or when the use of escharotics is decidedly objected to—milder measures may be employed. The tartarized iron in solution, or Condy's fluid (permanganates of potash and iron), pure, or more or less diluted, may be applied as a lotion; and often they are found to exert a very decided influence in amending the condition of the sore. On arrest, even partial, of the sloughing and phagedeenic processes, by local treatment, the constitutional symptoms undergo a marked improve- ment. For the effect of the escharotic is not merely to convert both dead and dying parts at once into an eschar; but also, to oppose constitutional contamination from absorption of deleterious matter, both fluid and gaseous. When sloughing has ceased, when the sloughs are almost separated, and when granulation is fairly established—the characteristic humidity, foetor, and pain all gone—the febrile disorder will be invariably found to have greatly subsided. Then tonics and generous diet have become expedient, to allay the hectic tendency, and maintain constitutional power sufficient for local repair.