ONYXIS. means, a satisfactory gi-anulating surface cannot bo obtained, it is well, instead of performing amputation of the phalanx, as was formerly prac- tised, more especially in those examples of the inveterate form in which the bone has become involved, to resort to repeated blistering of the part till all thickening of the textures is fairly removed. Onyxis, or In-groivinrj of the Nail. This in-growing of the nail rarely occurs but in the great toes. It may be produced simply by the undue pressure of a too tight boot or shoe. It presses the fleshy side of the toe against the side of the naU, and by the constant fretting and rubbing to which the part is exposed in walking, the textures become swoLn, red, very painful, and ultimately ulcerated; large flabby granulations usually bulging out from the matrix over the surface of the nail. In other cases the patient is himself the cause. He has cut the toe nails round in their free extremity, instead of paring them squarely. The new nail, as it pushes upwards and outwards, is thus broader than the opening in the soft parts through which it has to advance; and consequently pressure and motion maintain and aggravate the irritation till suppuration takes place, and the matter is discharged at the side of the nail. Whether the nail have been originally to blame, or not, it is veiy important to remove its injurious contact with the angry sore along its margin. JFox this purpose, either mild or rude measures may be em- ployed j the former in the first instance. The nail is softened, and having been scraped thin, has its edge gradually and gently elevated above the fungous granulations ; and then there is interposed a layer of soft lint, or other suitable substance. The nail having been thus perma- nently elevated, the fi-eed sore abandons its ii-ritable character, and may be brought to heal under the ordinary apphcations. But, failing such measures, evulsion of aU that portion of the nail concerned in the ulcer is to be had recourse to, as first employed by Dupuytren; a very pain- ful, but very effectual remedy. The nail having been softened and thinned as before, the blade of strong sharp-pointed scissors is nm up fi'om the point to the root; the nail is severed at that part by one stroke ; the isolated portion of nail—usually about a quarter of the whole—is then laid hold of by strong dissecting forceps, one blade of which is pushed beneath; and by a sudden wrench, evulsion is efiected. Unless under chloroform, the pain is great, though momentary. Hot poultice or water-dressing is applied. A healthy character of sore, gene- rally, soon appears; and healing is not long delayed. Contraction of the Palmar Fascia. The whole aponeurosis may be rigidly contracted; or that portion only, connected with and passing along one or more fingers. When the whole is involved, all the fingers are rigidly bent, and the hand conse-- quently is not only much deformed, but almost entirely useless. The disease is most frequent in those who in using the fingers much, keep them for a considerable period in the contracted position. It is but hit e