CHAPTER XXXVI. AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE Wounds. Wounds of the face bleed freely, and usually require deligation or torsion of the vessels implicated. Coaptation should be carefully effected, as union by adhesion usually occurs, Kttle cicatricial deformity resulting. When the wound does not penetrate through the cheek, but is above the level of the teeth of the lower jaw, the communication with the buc- cal cavity should be made complete, so as to secure a free escape of blood, etc., into the mouth, and thus promote accurate and immediate union of the superficial incision. Perpendicular wounds may open into the parotid duct, or completely divide it, giving rise to one form of saUvaiy fistula. In such wounds, division of the branches of the portio dura, ■witii paralysis of the cheek, at least for a time, can hardly fail to occur. After cicatrization, resumption of the nervous function may be expedited by friction. Warts. Warts not unfrequently form on the integument of the face. Thej should not be allowed to remain : for, by the time old age has super vened, they will be found either already degenerated, or prone to becc so. It is well to remove them early, while they are yet simple, by elliptical incision including the portion of skin from which they grow. Erysipelas. Erysipelas seldom assumes the phlegmonous form in the face Punctures, consequently, suffice for abstraction of blood, and rehef o: tension. They may be made freely; for the cicatrices leave no imseeml trace. But with the chalybeate treatment these are rarely required dusting the surface with flour, or painting it with glycerine and oxide o zinc, sufficing to allay the biirning pain. After disappearance of the mail attack, the patient must be carefully watched for some days ; reaccessioD with secondary abscess, being very apt to occur in the- areolar tissue t the lower eyelids. Boils and Anthrax. Boils and carbuncles occur frequently upon the face; the former i- adolescents, the latter in elderly patients. They require the same ireal ment as elsewhere. In young females, mcision should always be avoideu