234 EFFECTS OF LOSS OP BLOOD. hand; a convulsive spasm of the muscles of the whole body having pre- ceded death. Or the man may have died Avithout a struggle; and the Aveapon is found lying beside him, having fallen from his hand when the wound had been made. The rapidity with which death arrives is, of course, dependent on the amount of blood lost in a given time, and on the previous state of the constitutional powers of the patient. The influence of this latter circumstance is undoubtedly extremely insignificant, in the class of cases now alluded to. But it will come to occupy a more important place, when we consider the effects of a continued loss or draining of blood from the system. The former circumstance, viz., the amount and rapidity of the hemorrhage, has an obvious bearing ; for if the bleeding be not excessive, the surgeon may by timely measures rescue his patient from death. And it is in cases where a short time (say a few minutes) elapses before the fatal event, that we have occasionally an opportunity of study- ing its circumstances. The history of such cases is extremely short. In surgical practice, they are most frequently exemplified in wounds, in secondary hemorrhage, and in the bursting of external aneurisms ; in the practice of the physi- cian, in the bursting of internal aneurisms, and in mucous hemorrhages ; and in the practice of the obstetrician, they are occasionally but rareh- seen, in cases of uterine hemorrhage connected with advanced pregnancy or labour. The surface of the body becomes deadly pale and cold; the voice is altogether gone, or almost inaudible ; syncope occurs ; and, pro- bably in convulsion, the patient dies. If death does not take place imme- diately, the first faint may pass ofi'; the eye becomes glazed, and the pupils are dilated, the mouth grows dry and cold, thirst is urgent, the patient sighs oppressively, and may be able to toss his head to reheve the extreme feeling of imeasiness which oppresses him. Generally he retains his mental faculties to the end; a last attack of syncope super- vening, and carrying him off either quiet or convidsed. Effects of a Continued Loss of Blood.—A man may fall down sud- denly in a faint, from accidental loss of blood, without sustaining from that loss any serious injury whatever. Either the syncope itself, or timely outward assistance, arrests the hemorrhage ; he recovers from the faint; and nothing of any importance results. But if within a short time this hemorrhage is again and again renewed, it is no longer inno- cuous. Eecovery from the state of fainting is then not perfect; but may . be accomj)anied with more or less delirium, or with an excessive feeling of anxiety, or with jactitation, violent rigors, or even convulsions ; and, in the severest cases, with involuntary evacuation of the bladder andi bowels. Further, the depression immediately residting from the hemor- rhage comes to be folloAved by a train of symptoms, to which the name of fever, or the fever of reaction, has been applied This state of the circulating system becomes occasionally a formid- able and difficult complication. A patient has received serious injury of. a limb, attended with much hemorrhage. And in deciding upon th propriety of at once operating in such a case, or of delaying interference, we must consider not only the nervous and constitutional shocks wliich the patient has received ; but also whether or not the organs of circula-