117G AFFECTIONS OF THE HAIR AND NAILS. powerfully in aborting the progress of the papular and scaly eruptions more particularly. When vesicles or blebs appear, or fissures or hacks coniplicato the surface of the eruption, the solution of nitrate of silver will in most instances relieve the irritation, and protect and harden the surface, better than any oily or greasy substance. In some cases calomel and starch powder, dusted over the surface, desiccates and protects the tender and exposed skin. Where ulceration exists, various lotions may be employed; containing the sulphate of copper or zinc; the nitrate of silver; the clilorinated soda ; the permanganate of potash ; the tartarized iron; or iodine in solution. In many cases the black or yellow wash will be found more successful The selection and strength of the lotion must be regulated by tlae condition of the surface, and the special circum- stances of the case. Before, however, applying it, the crusts should all be carefully removed by means of a bread and water or bread and milk poultice. The lotion is applied by means of lint, soaked in the solution and covered in with gutta percha. Sometimes ointments containing a stimulating mercurial will be found more efficient than any other medi- cament. These are applied once or twice in the twenty-four hours; and to prevent the lard with which they are made from accreting and becoming rancid, it is always well to cleanse the whole surface by means of a weak alkaline lotion once at least in the course of the day. Secondary Affections of the Appendages of the SJdn. Alopecia—Falling out of the hair. This occurs in three different forms, and belongs to different stages in the syphilitic infection. These forms are, 1. Defluvium Capilli—thinning of the hair, not only of the scalp, but of the eyebrows, eyelashes, beard, whiskers, and generally over the surface. This commences during the early stage of the syphilitic infection, before almost any eruption has appeared; but may continue for a considerable period during the first year of the syphi- litic disease. The symptoms which attend its commencement are chloro- anjemia, febrile derangement, enlargement of the cervical ganglia, nocturnal headach, and usually some degree of exanthematous redness of the surface, with congestion of the fauces. The degree of shedding of the hair varies much; in some cases, coming out in handfuls, and giving the patient a most singular appearance; in others so slightly, as not to attract the attention of the patient till discovered by the sui-geon, who, drawing a lock of hair through his fingers, finds that it comes away in quantity and with unusual facihty. This early form of alopecia, however complete may be the shedding of the hair, does not entail permanent baldness ; the hair bulbs remaining, intact, the growth is reproduced. We cannot, however, arrest the falling out of the hair ; as, before it begins to manifest itself, the hair has already lost its attachment and must necessarily be exfoliated. The constitu- tional treatment of syphilis is all that is requisite for this form of alopecia. Should, however, a scaly eruption, attended Avith dandruff, accompany the shedding of the hair, a borax and rosemary lotion, or aromatic spirit of ammonia diluted with water, or infusion of rosemary, may be employed as a detergent. All stimulating applications should