841 AFFECTIONS OF THE INTEllNAL EAR. wo observe a sudden arrest of discilargo to occur from any cause; but especially in those cases in which implication of the middle ear is indi- cated, by imperfection of tlio membrana tympani, and perhaps previous thscharge of the ossicula auditus. Otorrhcea in the adidt may be connected with the lodgment of foreign matter in the meatus, long overlooked. A grass-seed, or such like substance, may be extruded after many years ; otorrhcea—occasional or constant — having been maintained during the whole period of its residence. Otorrhcea is occasionally connected with a general carious condition of the pars petrosa of the temporal bone; which has softened, and become hollowed out into a cavity, containing only granulation texture, Tlie symptoms, sooner or later, are cerebral and obscure. The issue is hopeless. And it is very plain that the fatal event would certainly be much accelerated by our attempts to arrest the aural discharge. Cases, however, have occurred, in which inflammatory affection of the petrous portion of the temporal bone has terminated in death of the part affected, attended with suppuration and copious and prolonged otorrhcea, but in which the patient has made a good recovery without any head symp- toms having appeared, and in which that part of the bone, including the whole or a portion of the labyrinth, has been discharged from the external meatus. Cancerous disease of the temporal bone often commences with violent paia resembling that of acute inflammatory affection of the middle ear, or of otalgia, and after a time is attended by a sanious discharge from the meatus. On examining with the speculum, a polypoid-like mass is seen, wliich bleeds on the slightest touch. These tumours may prove fatal by extension of the growth towards the brain; or, enlarging towards either the fauces or the surface, they either exhaust the patient by pain, or prove fatal by the bleeding which supervenes after the open condi- tion is attained. In such cases, treatment either of the discharge or of the polypoid-Hke development is worse than useless. Attention to qjeanliuess will, however, add much to the patient's comfort. Affections of the Internal Ear and Organ of Hearing. "We have already alluded to the different inflammatory affections which may implicate these parts. Wlien, from suppurative destruction of the middle ear, the ossicula are discharged through an opening in the mem- brana tympani, and the stapes is included in the sequestrum, the aperture of commimication with the labryinth must of course be involved, with more or loss complete annihilation of the function of the parts within. Or, again, in those rare cases where recovery has followed necrosis of the portion of bone including either the whole or a part of the labyrinth, deafness cannot fail to exist; or, where a like destruction of the all- essential part of the organ of hearing has occurred from caries, it is easy to understand that complete deafness must follow. Various morbid conditions of the parts composing the internal ear nave been demonstrated j as, for instance, extravasation of blood occupying the labyrinth, the presence of large quantities of otoconia or of pigment,