470 TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. fibres, on the stretch, would naturally im- Fig. loa true, sutures are still wholly trusted to for coaptation. But it ouglit to be remembered, tliat the stitching is of living flesh, and not of an inanimate garment; that each suture is a fresh stimulus, prone to excite inflammatory excess ; and tliat if such stimuli be numerous and permanent, in a short space of wound, that evil is all but inevi- table. The living structure does not fail to resent the injury to some degree, and resists the lodgment of foreign matter even though metallic. And, further, suppuration of the wound itself, with delay of cure, does not constitute the sole hazard; erysipelas, or diffuse subcutaneous suppuration, may ensue ; requir- ing active and severe treatment, and, even with that, perilling existence. M. Vidal, in slight wounds, introduced the use of small spring forceps {Serves fines), about an inch and a half long, which are provided with three teeth-like hooks at their extremities. They take a firm hold of the skin, without transfixing it, and are said to cause little or no uneasiness. Retained for eight or ten hours, the wound may have by that time adhered with suflicient firmness, to render all extrinsic retentive means unnecessary. As already stated, position and plaster are the preferable agents of apposition. The part is placed, comfortably yet se- curely, so as to relax those muscles whose pede the object in view. The surrounding skin having been gently free from hair and moisture, the edges of the wound are carefully and gradu-. ally opposed accurately to each other, by the hands of an assistant; who retains them so, while the surgeon appUes strips of adhesive plaster ovei; the hue of Avound. The preferable kind of j^laster is that brought int use by Mr. Listen ; consisting of a strong solution of isinglass in spiriti spread evenly upon oiled silk, or upon fine animal membrane, or upo^ silk gaxize. The gauze is probably the best; first made waterproof by} coating of boiled oil, and then laid over with layers of the dissolve isinglass. The advantages of this kind of plaster ai'e, that it does no: irritate, while yet it adheres with much tenacity; not tending ti encourage erysipelas, or inflammatory excess of any kind; and entai' no trouble to the surgeon, pain to the patient, or injury to the part, frequent renewal. Often the first application remains firm througho the whole period of cure. Another obvious and important advantage that the plaster, being translucent, permits a surveillance of the who track of wound; as complete as if no dressing Avhatever had been ployed. The sli^s should be long; in order that, enacting the part of Fig. 199. Suture needle ; with improved iioiut, a. h, Needle in fixed handl useful ill tying erectile and other tumours. Fig. 200. The common interrupted sutiu'e. The knots not tightened..