291 CARIES. -substance, ■vvhicli is diminished by the transformation of its connective issue into bone. This part of the bone in section is tougli, deiise, and almost ivory-like ; and when this outer area affects the subperiosteal sur- face of the bone, it becomes developed into osseous spicula, ridges, and stalactitic projections. The two interior portions are incapable of eificient restoration or repair; the external is busy, as it were, atoning for their deficiency, by throwing out new osseous matter, sometimes in great abundance. Thus the carious spicular cavity, filled with the softened results of the retrograde transformation of fully-developed bony tissue, is surrounded first by spongy bone j and more exteriorly by osseous product, forming a hard irregidar ridge, sometimes but slight, at other times ex- tensive. It is not meant that such an arrangement is perfect in all cases, but only that it obtains to a greater or less degree. Sometimes continuous necrosis is engrafted on the ulcerative process; and in the cavity may be found dead portions, either of cancellated or laminated texture ; partially adherent, or altogether loose as sequestra. The system invariably suffers to a greater or less extent; and the disorder is of the asthenic type—constitutional irritation. Very often the Fig. 114. Fig. 115. ])atient has been for some time manifestly cachectic, previously to the accession of local mischief. If not, symptoms of a hectic character are not long in supervening; all the more early and formidable, if the caries implicate an important articulation. . Caries may be Simiole, as just described ; or it may be of a Scrofu- i(m or Tubercular character. In the former case, it is unattended by any peculiar product. In the latter, it is often both preceded and ac- companied by the formation of purulent tubercular accretion in the loose texture of the bone ; originating, in fact, in the morbid condition formerly aetailed as constituting scrofulous abscess of bone. First, there is tuber- cular occupation of open texture, either originally cancellous, or rendered vJl\ of the elbow ; mainly affectmg the condyle of the humerus. The vegetative effort around the carious surface well exemplified. thp ^^"^ ■^^^^ ^"'■^ combined ; in phalanges of the toes. In the upper, c^vi<l^"°^' represented still containing its sequestrum. In the lower, the '-avity and aequestnim separate.