HEMORRHAGE FROM THE EAR. 843 nectetl with irritation in tlie mouth. The pain is very distressing, and has all the characters of neuralgia. It is amenable to the same treatment; search for a dental cause or connection never being neglected. Among the anodynes suitable for application to the part, aconite and belladonna deserve a prominent place. Hemorrhage from the Ear. Blood, escaping by the ear, may proceed from various sources, and i-equires different treatment accordingly. 1. One of the most prominent symptoms of fracture at the base of the cranium is bleeding from the ear; amenable to no direct treatment; and usually an unfavourable omen. This is usually due to the line of fracture estabhshiug a coni- munication between the sinuses of the dura mater and the middle ear, the blood escaping externally by a rent in the membrana tympani. In several cases of this kind, where undoubtedly no such communication existed between the sinuses and the tympanic cavity, the vessels of the mem- brana tympani, and the torn arteries and veins of the tympanic cavity, pro- bably furnished the blood. 2. Mere laceration of the lining membrane of the meatus may cause a copious discharge of blood, independent of any injury done to the cranium, or elsewhere. It, too, requires no direct treat- ment—not being likely to prove excessive. And it is not a sign of an untoward character. It may be the result of a blow, fall, or du-ect injury done to the part. 3. Passive hemorrhage may take place from this, as from mucous surfaces; amenable to the ordinary treatment, local and constitutional, suitable in such cases. 4. The internal carotid may have been opened into by ulceration. The hemorrhage is constant, copious, and of the arterial character. Pressure may be tried, with styptics, but may fail. The only sure remedy is ligatui-e of the common carotid artery. 5. The lateral sinus, opened by ulceration, may be the source of bleeding—dark and venous. In this case, while ligature of the carotid would prove wholly nugatory, moderate pressure is found to be quite effectual.