1055 IRRITABLE RECTUM. the bladder and rectum, becomes established. The treatment can only be palliative. Irritcible Rectum. The lower bowel is liable to become the seat of irritation, uncon- nected with any structural change; causing pain, heat, itching, frequent desire to go to stool, spasm of the sphincter, and sympathy of the urinary organs. The source of irritation may be within the bowel itself; ascarides. Or it may be contiguous; stricture in the urethra, stone in the bladder, or some affection of the prostate. Or it may be remote, yet continuous as to tissue ; a depraved state of the mucous membrane of the stomach or upper bowels. Treatment is obviously to be begun by re- moval of the cause, if possible. Afterwards, opium, hydrocyanic acid, chloroform, or other calmatives, may be applied directly to the part, by means of injection, suppository, or inunction. Itching of the Anus, an obstinate and distressing complaint—an irri- tation exterior to the bowel—is often the source of intense suffering to the patient. Generally, it is connected with a depraved state of the mucous membrane of the bowel; and removal of this, by the suitable alteratives—as tar, copaiba, arsenic, etc.—may suffice for cni-e. Some- times it attends on piles or fissure, and is removed along with these ail- ments. Sometimes it is connected with a thickened and chapped state of the skin external to the anus ; and in these cases, as well as in those where no local cause is apparent, applications to the part are essential. Of these the most successful are hydrocyanic acid, tobacco infusion, and camphor powder. The last may be used alone, or in combination with starch, and preceded by the application of a calomel ointment, 5i—3ii to the ounce. Hemorrhage from the Rectum. Eleeding from the lower bowel is usually an indication of piles, as has been seen; of the internal, vascular pile, more especially; and is almost always arterial. In females, however, it not nnfrequently is found independent of prominent alteration in the bowel; oozing from the lining membrane, merely congested; and then usually periodic and vicarious. Or it is frequent and exhausting, proceeding from a small vascular eminence on some part of the membrane, discernible only by the use of the speculum. The treatment is obvious; according to the cause. Hemorrhoids are to be tied. The uterine function is to be restored, and the general frame amended. The vascular point is to be cauterised or deligated, and astringents are at the same time given inter- nally—the best, perhaps, gallic acid. The tannin suppository may be used locally. In some way, the drain must be arrested. Injuries of the Rectum. The anus is liable to wound and bruise, as other parts. The former may be formidable by hemorrhage; the latter by inflammatory change, leading to deep-seated abscess. Treatment is accordingly. A dangerous form of injury used to occur in hospitals, when the old-fashioned metallic