954 CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. curvature ; and of such debility, insufficient food and clothing, excess of confinement and work, febrile or other affections leaving the systou exhausted—are common excitants, to Avhich all ranks of life are subject. The muscular system of the back grows especially weak Avhen cramped in ftishionable articles of female dresa, which, by affording an uncalled- for support, permit the natural means provided for the erection and movement of the spine to become atropliied. The muscles, consequently, grow unequal to their proper task, and deviation from the straight line results—at first occasional, afterwards habitual, ultimately confirmed and progressive; for now the weight of super-incumbent head and shoulders is afforded a greater leverage, and tends more powerfully to compress the softened bone on the side corresponding to the hollow of the curve. At its commencement the change is sHght, and its progress insidious; and the beginning of curvation is most Hkely to take place in the lumbar region—at the basis of the pyramid of support; but the complimentary or counter-balancing curvature in the dorsal region is usually better marked, and first attracts attention—projecting, as it usually does, to the right side, and producing elevation of the corresponding shoulder, with prominence of the scapula. Not unfrequently, there is a third curve ultimately established in the cervical vertebrae, in a direction opposed to that of the dorsal. As the amount of bending increases, rotation of the bodies of the vertebras on each other generally takes place—the rotation being towards the same side as the curve; the height of the spinal column, too, greatly decreases, the thorax becoming shortened and later- ally compressed; and, in consequence, serious changes happen to the thoracic and abdominal viscera. The ribs expand on one side, while they are approximated and imbricated on the other; and they fall in- wards, narrowing the chest in its lateral direction, and producing promi- nence of the sternum and of the costal cartilages. The heart and lungs become incommoded, and labour in their function. The sternum, too— with its costal appendages—has approached unusually near to the pelvis ; the abdominal space is narrowed in consequence, and its organs are injuriously affected. At first, the spinal change is chiefly in the inter-vertebral spaces; and the deformity, at that time, is capable of being undone, by appHances from without, or, partially at least, even by the efforts of the patient. But ultimately the bones become consolidated in their new relation; permanent thinning of the body of the vertebra remaining on the com- pressed side, while corresponding expansion exists at that which is free. Then the deformity has become fixed and irremediable—a circumstance of very important and obvious bearing on the question of treatment. The great and distinguishing characteristic of this form of disease is the absence of all general affection of the osseous system, the pelvis and limbs remaining quite free from participation in it. The indications of treatment are directed fully more to the state of the general system than to that of the part aftected. In the early stage, when only commencing, a tonic regimen is to be sedidously attended to. All corsets or confining apparatus, continuously worn, must prove i>rcju- dicial; the muscles, already weak, will be enfeebled more and more; and the original malady cannot fail to sustain aggravation. Good diet