SPECIFIC VENEREAX DISEASES. 1144 tion, by its superficial extent and irregularity of form, by tlie absence of true ulceration, by speedy assumption of the healing process, and by the absence of all enlargements in the chain of inguinal glands. It heals under ordinary simple means. It should bo remembered, however, in considering the history of such abrasion of the genital organs, that all that constitutes the difference between an abrasion or excoriation and a chancre, is the possible presence or absence of the chancre-virus from contact with the abraded sui-face, whether during connection or after- wards. Common non-specific sores are known by the history of their produc- tion, and by absence of the characteristics of the venereal ulcer. K any doubt exist, it is expedient to treat the sore, locally, as if it were really a chancre. Thus all risk of communication of the disease is averted. And, if it be considered of importance to arrive at certainty on the subject, the test by inoculation may be had recourse to. A portion of discharge from the sore is inserted, by the point of a lancet, on the antero-lateral region of the abdomen ; if the virus of the soft chancre be present, specific results will occur as in the case of other experimental inoculations with matter taken from the soft chancre. And then, by freely rooting out the forming pustule and the sore by means of an escharotic, propagation of the disease is prevented. With the indurated chancre, the common non-specific ulcers of the genitals are not likely to be confounded ; the characters of the former and the existence of specific glandular enlargement serving to render the diagnosis easy. Some secondary ulcerative affections of the balano-preputial mucous membrane, of the condylomatous or pustulo-crustaceous type, may, how- ever, be mistaken for soft chancres; or, in consequence of the presence of a multi-glandular indurated enlargement of the inguinal lymphatics still existing, for an indurated or syphilitic sore. The non-auto-inoculability of the pus will serve to distinguish it from the soft form of chancre ; while the presence of other eruptive affections of the condylomatous, squamous, or pustulo-crustaceous type, should serve to indicate that, although possibly situated upon the site of the originating indurated sore, it belongs to a more advanced period in the history of the disease. Specific Venereal Diseases. These include all the diseased states, local and constitutional, which are caused by the introduction of virus into the tissues of the body by inoculation of the secretion derived from sores, which usually form upon the genitals, and are propagated by a similar mode of communica- tion. In some cases the virus, when introduced into the part, produces an inflammatory irritation, accompanied by the formation of either a pustule or an irritable sore, according to the nature of the solution of continuity in the scarf skin which has permitted its entrance. This inflammatory process always results in suppuration and more or less ulceration, sometimes even in sloughing"; and the matter coming from such a sore is capable of reproducing a similar series of pathological phenomena in any part, or individual, if only certain requirements are fulfilled. These are : \d, that a surface is provided from which the scarf