121 TUE INKLAMED SORE, over the suiTOUiitLuig skin, wliere swobi and discoloured—so as merely to blacken this, and obtain the sedative and purely antiphlogistic effect. A temporary increase of pain usually follows, in the sore ; but soon passes away, on the application of a soft light poultice, or hot-water dressing. And this epithem is continued until re-application of the nitrate ; wliich may be daily, or only on each alternate day, according to the effect pro- duced. • Under this treatment, amendment is often rapid and satisfactory ; pain diminishing, and soon ceasing to be inordinate ; the margins losing tlieir ii'ritable characteristics ; and the raw surface beginning to be studded with healthy gi-anulations. Then, ordinary simple treatment is assumed. But success is not invariable. Pain may be permanently increased by the appHcation ; and then the sore either becomes more and more irritable, or thi'eatens to pass into the inflamed. In such circumstances, means more simply sedative must be applied ; pencilling by nitrate of silver being still continued, however, to the surrounding integument. An aque- ous solution of opium may be used, five grains to the ounce; or conium, hyoscyamus, belladonna, hydrocyanic acid, or aconite, cautiously ; and sometimes good effects are produced by a weak nitric-acid lotion—from two to five drops to the ounce of distilled water. When irritable sores are but part of the sequelce of syphilitic infec- tion of the system, the constitutional treatment will of course be such as is suitable for the eradication of that evil. When tliey are secondary to cutaneous eruption, but not of a specific kind, a weak solution of arsenic is often very beneficial as a local application ; and, in such cases, it is well to combine the internal with the local use of this remedy. On the whole, as already stated, the most trustworthy and generally applicable local remedy is the nitrate of silver. Used not oftener than daily; and, usually, but once in the forty-eight hours. Applied with great hghtness to the raw sui-face and surrounding skin so as only to pro- duce its sHghtest effect—the very opposite of escharotic—sedative, anodyne, and protective by the formation of an investing pelhcle on the sore. Pressed firmly only on the margins ; and they too but tenderly dealt with, so soon as they have undergone a favourable change. But, whatever be the local management, let it never be forgotten that an indispensable, and often by far the most important part of the treat- ment, consists in remedies directed to the system. If this be neglected, no local application will be of any permanent avail. The ulcer in most cases has sprung from, and is maintained by, an evil state of constitution, and only by eradication of that origin and maintenance can it be removed, 7. Tlie Inflamed Sore. This presents the ordinary characters of advancing ulceration, with accompanying inflammatory progress ; and, as can be readily under- stood, IS the most common original form of ulcer. Very often, however It IS of secondary occurrence; for over-stimulation is not unlikely to happen to ulcers of a healthy as well as of a sluggish kind, Tlie raw surtace is steaddy dismtcgi-ating ; and, instead of contracting, enlarges ; snewmg no granulations, but a soft, raAv, pulpy substance ; and emitting