COMPRESSION BY BLOOD. G09 fore ; ami the symptoms now will be found presenting the characters of coma. Here is a combination of concussion with compression ; yet there is no difficulty in separating the case into its two component parts. The first insensibility was that of concussion ; the second is undoubtedly due to compression. If the interval of consciousness have been brief—of ]^oui.g—the compressing agent is, doubtless, extravasated blood; if it have been of considerable duration—days—the compressing agent is pus, or otlier inflammatory product. It is right also to remember that, not unfrequently, part of the in- sensibiUty attendant on injuries of the head may be attributable to intoxication; and that although this is of a transient nature, and to that extent favourable, yet that it predisposes to inflammatory accession. Again, the coma may be of urtemia, or of poisoning by opium; and not directly connected with injury of the head, real or supposed. Compression by Extravasation of Blood. Escape ot blood may take place, immediately on infliction of the injury; or not until reaction has followed the direct effects of concus- sion. During the depressed state of circulation which obtains during lie first effect of the injury, no blood may escape from even extensive cerebral laceration ; but if reaction be both speedy and intense, even the slightest lesion will be certain to afford a dangerous amount of that auid. The exti'avasation may be variously situated : between the skull and dura mater; between the membranes ; on the surface of the brain—on its hemispheres, or at its base ; within the ventricles j or infiltrated into bioken-up cerebral substance. For practical purposes, it is sufficient to livide compressing extravasations into two great classes; those which are sxterior to the dura mater, and those which are within that membrane. L—Extravasation between the Bone and Dura Mater. One of the effects of a fall or blow on the head is, by disruption ot ihe soft parts constituting the scalp, to produce more or less swelling by languineous infiltration of that texture. Occasionally, a similar result 8 produced on the internal aspect of the part of the cranium struck, in areolar and vascular connections of the dura mater with the bone, se being torn, escape of blood follows ; either at the time, or subse- nuently on reaction; or at both periods; sparingly at first, more pro- psely afterwards. If any considerable vessel have been torn, the extra- rasation may be expected to be both instant and considerable. By such ibnormal accumulation of blood, the dura mater is proportionately bulged Tiwards ; and compression of the brain necessarily results. The blood, " in other examples of extravasation, is at first fluid, but sooner or later snmes the form of a solid cake, with a somewhat coarsely granular exture, the serum of coagulation having become absorbed. -Extreme cases of this nature, it is plain, are most likely to occur /heri the injury has been inflicted in the course of the larger sinuses, or I ^ middle meningeal artery. And liere the quantity of extravasated 2 u