124 SLOUGlIING-PHAGEDyENA. masses, as in slougliiiig. It results from a somewhat similar conjuuction of cii'cumstances with the i)receding ; local disturbance exceeding local power, and usually attended with debih'ty as well as irritabihty of the system. Two forms occur ; the acute and chronic. The acute is usually a sore of irregular form ; with margins abrupt and somewhat ragged. And these, as well as the inte- gument to some distance around, are red and slightly swoln. There is a sensation of sharp burning heat in the part. The raw surface is of a brownish hue, or ash grey colour, totally void of anything like granulations, uneven in depth, and in many places presenting the appearance as if gnawed by the teeth of a small animal The system suffers severely; and the form of its dis- order is of the irritative type. The chronic variety is less painful, less inflamed, less rapid, darker in hue, with the gnawed appearance usually more distinct; commonly surrounded by considerable thickening and hardness of the tissues, and often spreading at one aspect, while slowly cicatrizing at the opposite. If several sores exist, all usually extend in the same direction. Withal, the constitutional disturbance is less severe. 10. The Slougliing-Phagedcena. The acute phagedsenic sore seldom persists in a distinct form. Much more frequently, it is associated with the sloughing; constituting Slough- ing-jjliagedcena. Commencement may be by either. If phaged£ena have preceded, the sore becomes lighter in colour, with margins less distinct, temporary diminution of discharge, and perhaps a lull in the pain. A tliin slough forms. This begins to separate; discharge again becomes profuse; and, on separation having somewhat advanced, either a second slough is seen being formed, or the part is found again under the influence of phagedgena. Sometimes the alternation of slough and ulcer is toler- ably regular ; in other cases, one or other form of destruction may have the predominance. Constitutional disturbance is at least equally severe as in either the sloughing sore or acute phagedeena, uncombined. Indeed, very frequently both j)art and system suffer more in the combined form, than in either singly. The combined is less frequently original than either of the sepa- rate forms. Familiar examples of the sloughing ulcer are—the Malignant pustule, and the sloughing sore of the penis ; of the phagedsenic, lupus of the face, and the phagedsenic form of venereal disease; of the sloughing-phage- dtena. Hospital gangrene or sore, and Cancrum oris. In all these varieties, but more especially the last, discharge is remarkably foutid, as well as profuse. And the foetor is so strikingly peculiar as to constitute one of the most prominent characters of the disease ; poisoning thoroughly the atmosphere of even a large apartment, and felt oppressive at a con- siderable distance. Treatment.—The treatment of these three classes being in most Fig. 32. Acute phagedaena, burrowing beueath the integuments of the penis.—Acton.