RETENTION OF UPJNE. 1117 the uretlira, independently of previous stricture; causing turgescence and occlusion. This may be the result of gonorrlicea, or of direct injury. Retention supervenes gradually ; and there is time for antiphlogistic treatment. To this we trust; leeches, fomentation, hip-bath, antimony, etc.; withholding the catheter, if possible; inasmuch as its use, even though successful in relieving the bladder, must aggravate the inflamma- tory affection, and tend to repetition in a worse form. In such cases, when we are obliged to resort to the use of the catheter, a medium-sized instrument, about No. 5, or 6, should be preferred. 3. Betentmi from Irritation and Spasm at the Neclc of the Bladder. —This may take place, irrespective of the inflammatory process, or of organic change. In the dissipated, it is no uncommon result of a late carousal; calls to evacuate the bladder, it is probable, having been im- prudently neglected. A hip-bath, with an anodyne—opium or hyos- cyamus, by the rectum or by the mouth—will usually give relief. If not, a full-sized catheter is to be passed, gently. 4. Retention from Priapism.—Priapism is a common result of spinal fracture ; and sometimes it occurs in connection with venereal excess. In the former case, when retention takes place, we cannot expect benefit from direct treatment of the cause ; and we must use the catheter. In the latter, by opium and camphor, and antimony ; by the warm bath ; by an opiate enema or suppository; and by leeches to the part, if need be—we may overcome the erection, and avert the use of instruments. 5. Retention from Abscess in the Penneum.—Abscess forming here —in connection with stricture, or as a result of direct injury—may bulge internally, so as temporarily to occlude the urethra. Catheterism would be very painful, and not unlikely to cause rupture of the abscess into the urethra, whereby urinous extravasation might occur. The knife super- sedes the catheter; the abscess is opened from without; instant relief follows; retention is overcome, and the morbid state which caused it is at the same time removed. Similar treatment may be required, on account of an abscess forming in the body of the penis, as a remote result of venereal disease. 6. Retention from Pelvic Abscess, or Cysts fo7-ming within the Pelvis. —Pelvic Abscess, bulging on the neck of the bladder, may cause reten- tion of urine.* Treatment is conducted on the same principles as in the case of perineal abscess; withholding the catheter, or using it very warily; and puncturing the abscess, so as to at once remove both reten- tion and its cause. Eetention may be simulated. The abscess may so compress the bladder as to prevent its distension and consequently urine is almost constantly passing away in small quantity, from a collapsed viscus; while the abscess, forming a large, dull, hypogastric swelling, may bo mistaken for the bladder largely distended. In one such case I thrust the catheter through the walls of the abscess, which was consequently evacuated through the urethra. The patient made a good recovery. Simple or hydatid cysts may form within the pelvis, and by their pressure occasion retention. In such cases the retention should first be * A case ia narrated in the Lancet, No. 1431, p. 118.