TREATMENT OF SECONDAllY IIEMOKRIIAGE. 414 ployed—it recurs once and again. And tlie patient may die exhausted ; partly from the direct effects of loss of blood ; partly from the disorder of system which the exsanguine state has induced. Treatment.—In the first instance let it be prophylactic. The pre- liminary febrile paroxysm is marked and met. Bleeding fi "oni the arm may be practised, if not otlierwise contra-indicated ; of sucli an amount, and so taken, as to produce a decidedly sedative effect on the heai't's action, and on the general circulation. And this effect is maintained, by subsequent exhibition of a full opiate. Thereafter, aconite, or veratrum mnj be advantageously used ; to prolong the beneficial result. By thus calming the tumult of circulation, at the suspected point as well as else- where, an additional opportunity may be afforded for occlusion by suit- able plastic change ; ulceration having ceased. Or if bleeding do occur, it will be in a comparatively moderate and diminished flow. When the dreaded casualty has taken place, treatment varies accord- ing to the nature of the cause. 1, If it be according to the first, we need have no hesitation in tying the vessel afresh, at a bleeding point ; u.sing two ligatures—one on the distal and one on the cardiac side of the open space. 2. In the second form of secondary hemorrhage, if we are certain that the bleeding comes from the distal aspect of the ligature, as in most cases it does, little benefit need be expected from an additional ligature on the cardiac aspect; and this procedure, therefore, is not adopted in the first instance. The wound is cleared of coagulum, and enlarged if necessary, so as to expose completely the bleeding point; and this is overlaid by a graduated compress, retained so as to exert that degree of pressure which, seems to be expedient; the rest of the limb being duly supported by bandaging. As a general rule, it may be stated that the pressure, if exact, need not and ought not to be severe. Exact- ness, combined with moderate intensity, will be sufficient to arrest the flow, and to induce a plastic product sufficient to fill the chasm. A higher force would not be more effectual as a hemostatic, and would probably cause renewal of ulceration or sloughing in the compressed arterial issue ; occasioning repetition of the casualty by renewal of its cause. In many cases such pressure will succeed ; when conjoined Avith general treatment suitable for ma,intaining gentleness and tranquillity of circulation. Should it fail; then, as a last resource, let a fresh ligature be placed on the cardiac aspect, by a fresh wound ; while pressm-e is maintained as before. The second ligature may succeed in stanching the flow; but, in its turn, it may prove the cause of a second bleeding, by recurrence of ulceration at the n^wly deligated part. Let there be no despair, and inactivity in consequence. So long as space permits, let ligature follow ligature on the cardiac aspect; and it is quite possible that in the end success will still be ours. Examples of such persevere ance in surgery, well rewarded, are not unfrequent.* 3. In the third form of secondary hemorrhage, let the abscess be speedily evacuated. Then if there be reason to suppose that the artery at that point will hold the ligature, let the double ligature be used there, after suitable dissection. If otherwise, place a ligature on the cardiac * Amongst others the following :—London and Edinburgh Monthly Journal, vol. i. p. 336. Ibid. vol. iii. p. 109.