SCROFULA. 204 multiple and highly developed nuclei and nucleoli. Tubercle, from its comniencoment, is, in fact, a poor, puny effort at cell proliferation ; and in its cell elements more closely resembles the corpuscles of the lym- phatic glands than any other of. the normal tissues of the body.— (Vii-chow.) In the internal organs, true tubercular formations do not dilfer mate- rially in constitution from those in the external lymphatic glan^ls. In both situations tlieir progress is usually the same ; it is, however, to some extent modified by the nature of the part wherein the tubercular matter is formed. In the lungs the masses of tubercle seldom attain a consider- able size without softening ; and as the debris of the softened tubercles is discharged by the bronclai, along with the remains of the pulmonary tissue, an ulcerous excavation results, which is usually called a vomica, or tubercular cavity. These excavations are generally formed first at the upper part of the lung; they are seldom isolated, and often break into one another, causing by their rapid extension hectic fever, copious expec- toration of pus, often considerable hemorrhage, and finally death, either by long-continued exhaustion, or by some accidental inflammatory com- plication. This production and excavation of tubercular formation in the lungs forms the chief feature of the disease kno"\vn as phthisis pulmonaUs, which is not unfrequently developed at all ages before the middle period of life, in persons in whom the scrofulous taint is strongly marked, as well as in many others who have given no external indications of this constitutional condition. In the mucous membrane of the intestines tubercles are yery frequently found; and by their softening and disintegration open ulcers are pro- duced, which in the great majority of cases undergo progressive extension, and by producing diarrhoea contribute greatly to a fatal result. Intes- tinal tubercles are commonly formed secondarily to those in the lungs ; and are often accompanied by a tubercular state of the mesenteric absor- bent glands. In the serous membranes, especially the peritoneum and pleura, tubercles not unfrequently form; and in these situations they have little tendency to soften and ulcerate, as in other parts of the body above mentioned. The destructive tendencies of tubercles in the serous mem- branes arise from their being accompanied by chronic inflammatory pro- ducts, which may either be fatal directly by interfering with the functional activity of important organs, or indirectly by exhaustion and fever. In the brain and its membranes, tubercles occasionally soften and form abscesses ; more commonly, however, they are fatal at an early stage of their development by interference with the functions of the organ, and in the majority of cases by serous inflammatory product in the ventricles, or hydrocephalus. This form of tubercvdar disease is most common in infants and young chikben. In the internal, as in the external parts of the body, tubercular for- mations not unfrequently heal, or become inactive. The healing process is always slow ; and after ulcers have beeii formed, or tubercles have been extensively produced, it is A'-ery uncertain ; a stationary or retrogi'ade condition of the aflection being often followed by renewed activity and I