867 LARYNGOSCOPY. patient, the light should be placed close beside his head, and a little behind the level of the face. The reflector for this purpose, instead of a hand-glass, consists of a slightly concave mirror, like a large ophthahno- scope, either held or fastened in front of the observer's face, so that the aperture in the centre corresponds to the axis of vision when he looks into the patient's mouth, and focuses the reflected light upon the soft palate and posterior wall of the pharynx. The mirror may be supported by being fastened to the observer's head by an elastic frontlet, with ball and socket or rectangular movement; or it may be attached to a stem passing through a wooden or ivory mouth- piece, which is held between the surgeon's teeth; or it may be affixed to a pair of spectacles, or attached to a metal stem or foot-piece which stands upon the table ; or, lastly, it may be supported separately by means of a more or less elaborate apparatus composed of sliding rods, and baU and socket joints, screwed to the chair on which the patient sits. Of these the simplest is held by most experienced operators to be very available in aU circumstances. Eut each individual observer will usually find that he has a special preference for one form of mirror-support rather than another, and that with it he works most comfortably. Having seated the patient, arranged the light and illumination to his liking, the surgeon now desires the patient to open his mouth, and teaches him how to keep the fauces exposed as fully as possible, while the tongue, from base to apex, is depressed below the level of the teeth in the lower jaw. Until a patient has acquired this power of control over the tongue, it is almost impossible satisfactorily to proceed further with the investigation ; for although assistance may sometimes be gained in steadying the organ with a tongue depressor or spatula, it is impossible satisfactorily and gently to manipulate with the mirror in the fauces, wMle with the other hand an unequal struggle is being waged with the tongue. Having secured the steadiness of the patient and of the tongue, the surgeon selects the faucial mirror of as large a size aa is suited to the width between the arches of the palate. Having wanned it over the lamp or gas, so as to be pleasantly hot when applied to his own cheek, he carries it into the patient's throat, avoiding the pillars of the fauces, but bearing its upper or back surface against the uvula, and thus backwards, either against or towards the posterior wall of the pharynx. The stem of the faucial mirror will generally be found supported against the lower bicuspid teeth, near the angle of the mouth. The position of the mirror is now altered as is found requisite, being inclined by elevating or depressing the handle; or it is gently rotated. As these movements are efi:ected, the base of the tongue and cir- cmnvallate papillaj will usually first become visible ; then the epiglottis, standing up in bold relief, and presenting its free margin and posterior or inferior surface, will catch the observer's eye ; and then a confused ruddy, dimly-liglited, and irregular surface, which consists of the upper and lower vocal cords, the ventricles of Morgagni, the arytenoid cartilages, and their processes, the cartilages of Wrisberg and Santorini, the arytseno-epiglotti- d£ean ligament—and, in the centre of the lowest part of the epiglottis, the cusluon of that part. To distinguish these several textures, the patient should be desired to call his laryngeal mechanism into play; as for