215 PEESSUEE. confidently. A small vessel, with a tiny stream, may bo salely left to natural lieniostatics; but when the calibre is at all considerable, and the jet active, there is no safety but in the employment of some sui'gical means of arrest. These are various. On the Avhole, none are superior, if equal, to the ligature, skilfully employed ; but some may prove auxi- liary to this; while others may conveniently supersede it in certain circumstances. We shall consider them in detail. 1. Pressure.—This may be used, when ligature is either unneces- sary or inapplicable. For example, when the bleeding comes, not from one or two arteries of considerable size, but from a great number of small arterial twigs, or when it resembles rather a capillary oozing, liga- ture need not be applied to each bleeding point; pressure suffices. Or when hemorrhage proceeds from arterial orifices, imbedded in dense unyielding texture—as in the almost cartilaginous mass of soft parts which invest a necrosed bone, or in the substance of bone itself—deli- uation, if attempted, would probably fail; and here, again, pressure is to be preferred. In limited wounds of the hand and foot, attended with arterial bleeding, and where dilatation of the wound would be requi- site to tie the vessel, or again in bleeding from the vessels of the scalp, Avhich are supported by the osseous arch of the calvarium, pressure is generally preferred. It must be early, accurate, and steadily maintained. Early, in order to anticipate infiltration of the areolar tissue; by which aneurismal formation might be favoured ; or, at least, by which an obstacle, of greater or less bulk, would be interposed between the arterial wound and the compressing agent. Accurate; because a com- paratively slight amount of pressure, applied directly to the bleeding point, suffices to arrest the flowj while a great amount of pressui-e, inaccm-ately applied, may prove ineffectual. And it is a great object to employ no higher degree of pressure than what is barely sufficient; lest untoward consequences ensue. The limb might be so tightly girded as to threaten gangrene; at all events, severe pressure, long maintained, is certain to induce suppuration and ulceration of the wound, which may determine secondary hemorrhage at a later period. Due pressure is applied in the following manner :—^The wound, and the bleeding point in the wound, having been exposed, as already directed, and the finger or ^ thumb placed accurately on the latter, so as tempo- rarily to arrest the escape of blood, an assistant care- folly bandages the whole limb from below upwards, ^'s- 80 as to afford an uniform degree of support to the whole, and prevent untoward consequences from the concentrated pressure which is about to be applied to the wound (Fig. 36), p. 136. As the finger or thumb is cautiously removed, a small, firm, dossil of lint, not larger than the finger's Fig. 90. Plan of a graduated compress, a, The artery wounded ; b, b, the gra- duated compress arranged, so that the apex of the cone is in immediate contact with the arterial orifice, while its mass occupies the general wound, and projects somewhat above the integumcntal level.