140 CrmONIC MORTIFICATION. Hitherto, we have considered chiefly such causes as are local and ex- ternal ; we now come to those which are constitutional and internal. 10. General debility, from any cause—liomorrhage, starvation, age, persistent disease, or long continuance oi" any generally depressing agent —predisposes to both inflammatory accession and its untoward advance ; there being but little power, either in part or system, for resistance oi' control. Or vital power may be so far diminished, especially in those parts naturally the weakest—being most removed from the centre of cii-- culation—as to cause death in a more direct way, without the interven- tion of the inflammatory process; simply by mal-nutrition, and gradual failure of vitality in consequence. This latter mode is not unfrequently exemplified by simple gangrene of the toes after exhausting fever. A peculiar disorder of the system, certainly not of the sthenic type, attends on the internal use of mercury carried to sustained ptyahsm. This seems very favourable to assumption of the inflammatory process ; and to the invasion of sloughing, as well as of fierce ulceration, dur- ing its progress; a fact abundantly exemplified by the frequent occur- rence of sloughing and phagedaena, in an aggravated form, in venereal patients salivated recklessly. 11. Imjp^'oper food, habitually taken, leads to disorder of the system of a feeble type ; and thus will, at least, predispose to gangrene. But one poisonous article of diet, in particular, causes constitutional disorder of a very aggravated character; an almost invariable result of which is chronic and dry mortification of the extremities. The article alluded to, is an unsound kind of rye ; not uncommon in the north of Eui-ope. A black, curved excrescence, not unlike the spur of a fowl, grows on the spike, and sometimes is found in such quantities as to form nearly one- fourth of the produce of the rye. It is termed the Ergot of rye, or Secale cornutum. Its habitual use, as food, induces lassitude, weakness of the extremities, a feeling of intoxication, and periodic convulsive movements. This state, called Eaphania, may continue for days or months. And fre- quently, during its persistence, mortification of the extremities occurs ; beginning in the toes, and gradually extending up the leg; attended Avith but little pain, and without appreciable precursory inflammatory change ; the part becoming at once cold, insensible, and discoloured, and gradually dry, hard, and shrivelled. In some of the recorded cases the line of de- marcation formed, separation was completed, and recoverj^ took place. In the majority, however, the disease advanced, unchecked in either its Fig. 38. Chronic gangrene ; from general debility. Line of separation liegiin. Patient ret. seventy-five.