RESECTION OF THE HIP-JOINT. 1301 mcognus and iliacus internus muscles, a Liirsa is interposed, where tlie tendon plays on the capsule of the hip-joint. And this bursa is liable to clironic enlargement ; causing pain in thp hip and knee, flexion of the thigh, disuse and wasting of the member. The enlargement may be felt, and is painful on pressure ; succussion of the joint itself causes no pain; abduction and rotation of the limb are not attended with inconvenience; but forcible extension of the thigh and inversion of the foot cause pain, by stretching the affected part; and pain is also felt when the patient himself flexes the thigh, or everts the foot—the tendon then acting directly on the bursal swelling. Similar bursal enlargement may occur posteriorly beneath the gluteal mass. 3. Disease of the lumbar vertebrae and sacro-iliac synchondrosis, inducing. neuralgic pains in the hip and limb, and impeding progression, is suspected when there is absence of the positive signs of hip-joint disease, as well as of those of bursal affec- tion ; and the existence of either may be ascertained by minute inquiry into the history of the case, with careful manipulation of the lumbar and sacral regions, while the hip-joint will be found altogether free from either tenderness or stiffness if only the pelvic joints are kept steady. 4. Young girls, about the time of puberty, or earlier, are apt to fall into a state of general disorder of system. Among other signs of this, lameness of one limb may occur, perhaps with occasional pain of the knee ; and, on examination, the limb may be found smaller than its fellow, the muscles soft and flabby, and the hip, consequently, somewhat flattened. Abduction, rotation, and succussion, however, are all well borne ; and on the affected limb the patient may hop round the room, with impunity. It were cruel, as well as futile, to confine that patient to constant recum- bency, to leech the hip, or to bring out crops of pustules over it. It is sufficient to enjoin moderate exercise, sea-bathing, friction, and general tonic treatment. 5, The other affections mentioned, as liable to simulate hip-joint disease, are detected by ordinary care in diagnosis ; they require no special remarks. Resection of the Hip-joint. Till lately, as suited to cases of disease, this operation has not had a place in surgery ; for long, however, the removal of the head and neck of the femur had been recommended, as suitable in"? cases of gunshot fractures of the neck of the thigh-bone, implicating the hip-joint, where, otherwise, amputation would be necessary. Still, though it has fre- quently been performed, excision of the head and neck of the femur, with scooping out of the acetabulum, cannot be by any means consi- dered as occupying the same position as excision of the head of the humerus, of the elbow, of the knee, or even of the wrist-joint; the grave objection to such a procedure always being, the difficulty of so tlioroughly removing the diseased osseous textures as in the other joints. As just stated, in a few cases of advanced morbus coxarius it may be deemed warrantable; when the head of the femur is dislocated, and is causing continuance or aggravation of excitement; when the joiiat is open ; when the muscles are wasted, and the head of the bono, conse- (juontly, is covered with little else than skin and areolar tissue; and