TREATMENT OF LOOSE BODIES IN JOINTS. 374 proposed. Otherwise, acting as a foreign body, an inflammatory process may be excited, suppuration may occur, and extension to the synovial membrane take place; the very result to the avoidance of which all our pains had been directed. For two or three days, therefore, it is suffered to remain in its new locality, undisturbed; the most careful prophylactic treatment being meanwhile employed, both generally and locally, so as to avert undue excitement. By that time, the synovial wound will liave closed by adhesion ; and both tracks—that of puncture, as well as that of extrusion—will have been consolidated. Then, the body having been i. fixed as before, a direct incision is made upon it, through the skin; not more free than is sufficient for its ready removal. After it has been lifted out, the superficial and slight wound is accurately brought together; and, in all probability, it unites by adhesion. I For some time after the operation, the limb is kept rigidly immov- able, yet comfortably placed; splints being employed, if necessary, in ; addition to well-adjusted pillows; and the most strict antiphlogistic | regimen is enjoined. Cold is applied to the part—by evaporatiDpf lotions, or by simple water-dressing; and all bandaging, compress< pledgets, and multiplicity of plasters are to be avoided, as being hkely j to engender what we most seek to avert. The operation, as we would advise it, is thus seen to consist of dis- tinct parts. 1. The prophylactic preparation; occupying not less than several days. 2. The oblique valvular puncture and preparation of a | cul de sac ; carefully avoiding the entrance of atmospheric air, even into the superficial areolar tissue. 3. Extrusion of the loose body into the i tissues external to the joint; and lodgment of it, subcutaneously, as far i as possible from the synovial wound. The second and third parts of the, i procedure are accomplished at once, in immediate succession; and then ' two or three days, not more, are allowed to elapse with a view to con- solidation of the wounds. 4. By a direct incision, the ofi'ending sub- j stance is finally removed from its temporary abode. 1 By another mode, a cure has been attempted. Where a patient ' averse to cutting instruments has been much annoyed by the disorder in question—and where other circumstances have existed, rendering the propriety of even, subcutaneous incision questionable—-an attempt has been made to secure the foreign body in a safe part of the joint, by transfixion. The same preparatory treatment having been employed, and . the cartilage having been similarly held, in a favourable locality, a hare- j lip pin, or finer needle, is passed through the capsule of the joint, so as to entangle the surface of the body in its hold ; or, should the consistence of this prove not great, it may even be completely transfixed. A few turns of a thread then suffices to keep the needle in its place. Aftei :; some days, it is gently withdrawn ; and rest, with antiphlogistic regimen ' is strictly maintained. Sufficient plastic product is expected along tli track of the needle, that thereby the previously movable substance nia; j be incorporated with the parts, and become permanently resident wher | its presence can produce little or no inconvenience. My own experience of this mode of treatment, however, is unfovon' able. The difficulties are, 1, in making sure of the transfixion of tl cartilage, which, in virtue of its lubricity, is very apt to elude the needle