1280 UTERINE POLYPUS. face of the uterus, and not unfrcquently several may be met with at the same time in the cervix, or adhering to the os—the fibrous polypus almost invariably grows from some part of the body of the organ. Tlio most urgent symptom of the affection is loss of blood. This is the chief source of the mischief which the tumours produce; and the con- sideration of its arrest is generally what leads to their discovery. It rarely happens that a woman dies directly of loss of blood from this cause; but tliore frequently results an extreme state of anemia, leading ultimately to a fatal termination. Violent, and sometimes fatal post par turn hemor- rhages, are occasionally connected with this as a cause. Bleeding may take place at the monthly periods, or at irregular in- tervals. It is frequently brought on by long continuance in the erect posture, by exertion in walking, or by jumping from a height; or it may occur without any assignable cause. It may in its flow resemble the ordinary menstrual discharge ; or the blood may issue in a continuous stream from the vagina. The quantity lost has no constant relation to the size of the tumour. The fibrous polypus is generally believed to be the most frequent cause of serious hemorrhages; but these may occur with polypi of any kind, even the smallest. Further, in some cases, there may be no bleeding at all; there may even be amenorrhoea. In the intervals of hemorrhage, there may be no discharge from the vagina. Generally, however, there is a mucous or muco-purulent secre- tion ; and in cases of large polypi, this is often abundant. Sometimes it is mixed with blood ; occasionally it is very foetid, especially if the polypus is ulcerated or breaking up. When the growth is intra-uterine, the blood may sometimes be observed distilling from between the hps of the cervix. The other symptoms accompanying polypus need no particular descrip- tion. They are those common to all affections of the uterus. Occa- sionally, one of these symptoms is very prominently complained of; as pain in the hips, verging to sciatica; also pains in the mammse. Examination with the finger generally discovers the growth. If, however, it be very small, care may be required. Sometimes a smooth, soft, and easily movable polypus, with small pedicle, remains undiscovered, although of considerable size ; the finger always pusliing the growth before it, instead of passing round it, as in general is easUy done. If the tumours are small, and lodged in the cervix, they may be better exposed after dilatation of this, by means of a sponge tent. By the same means, an intra-uterine polypus may be detected. The speculum also may be used to expose a polypus for examination by the eye. But, it may be added, that these growths not unfrequently cause no incon- venience whatever ; and are discovered only by accident. Polypus is distinguished from cauliflower excrescence, by the latter having a broad attachment to the cervix, by its free bleeding when touched, by its profuse watery discharge, by its rough and largely granu- lar surface, by its accompanying cancerous cachexia, and lastly, by the results of treatment. Polypus is also lif^i° ^'^ 1o mistaken for inversion of the womb. The treatment of uterine polypus consists simply in effecting its removal. Bleeding has the same treatment as other forms of uterine