FISTULA LACIIRYMALIS. 007 Tlio essential parts of tlio disease are, obstruction in the nasal dnct, xnd an external opening overlying and communicating with the lachrymal sac. In trcatnaont it is our object to close the opening ; and tliat can be done only by removing the cause of obstruction. To this end, an operation is necessary. And till very lately the following was always portbrmod :—The patient having been seated on a chair, with the head supported, a nai-row sharp-pointed straight bistoury Avas inserted into the fistulous opening beneath the orbicularis tendon; and not only lodged in the sac, but pushed into the osseous nasal canal as well. To accomplish this dexterously, reference to the anatomy of the parts was necessary, in order that the penetrating instrument might receive the requisite direction; downwards, a Kttle backwards, and a very little in- wards. By the side of the bistoury a stout probe was passed down; and IS the former was sloAvly withdrawn, the latter was pushed steadily nwards, imtil it had overcome the obstruction, and was felt to touch the loor of the nasal fossa. To effect this perforation, a little force was H)metimes necessary. A few drops of blood, escaped by the nostril, and proved re-estabhshment of the duct complete; also, if the patient was made to expire forcibly, while the nostrils were shut, air and bloody luucus would be forced upwards through the duct, if the j)robe had Iteen withdi-awn. But it was not enough that the knife and probe procured a temporary le-establishment of the canal. This had to be kept permanently open. And to accomplish this, styles—or small bougies—were em- ployed ; of various sizes, and made of silver. One about the thickness of an ordinary probe, and sufficiently long to reach from the upper wound to the nasal aperture of the duct, but not so long as to rest on the floor of .the nostril, was lodged in the canal; its flattened head resting on the integument. No fixed size could be defined as generally suitable for the commencement of the treatment. The style had to pass easily, after with- drawal of the ordinary probe. Having been lodged, it was left there. After some hours, the part usually became hot, painful, " ' and swoln ; stiU, the style was left untouched. Fomentation, or water-dressing was appHed, and the minor general antiphlogistics em- loyed; and after a day or two, when the inflammatory signs had subsided, he style became loosened, and pus escaped by its side. After a few days f quietude, the original style was withdrawn, a size larger was substituted. s, in its turn, was replaced by a third; and so on; until one was odged of sufficient bulk completely to occupy the canal; the passage eing syringed once a day with tepid water, to keep it clean. This last le was worn for some considerable time, until it was presumed that the ormal calibre of the passage was fully restored, and that its lining mem- rane had returned to a tolerably sound condition. Then the instrument which had only been taken out occasionally, for the purpose of being leaned and replaced—was withdrawn, and a smaller substituted. This, fter having been worn for some days, was replaced by a less ; and by "18 gradual abstraction of the stimulus, relapse was prevented as far as oasible. Then, if the tears continued to flow naturally, and all else Fig. 244. Style for tlie lachrymal duct.