978 MAMMITIS. during lactation, may result from external injury, oxposure to cold, derangements of the gastro-intestinal system, errors in diet, or any other circumstance which sufSccs to excite the general febrile disturh- anco, commonly designated as a " weed." This is characterized by rigors shivering, quick pulse, loaded tongue, intense thirst, flushing of tlie face| and even delirium, while the pain and other local inflammatory symptoms are commensurately iiitense; and suppuration is obviously imminent from the first. The secretion of milk is first perverted, then arrested, and, should resolution occur, again restored. When matter forms, it is seldom limited to one part, pointing rapidly there; but rather tends to pervade the whole gland, pointing slowly, and, when allowed to evacuate itself spontaneously, usually attended by more or less ulceration or even slougliing of the integument. In the outset, leeches are generally recommended to be applied in abundance; but hot fomentation to the part, while the gland is carefully supported by a soft handkerchief or shawl, passed beneath it and round the neck, will be found more advantageous. Internally, small doses of sulphate of magnesia, in acidulated solution, with antimony, will usually subdue the febrile state, at the same time having the effect of checking the hyper-secretion in the gland—a result which will be further contri- buted to by local use of belladoima. When resolution commences, this may be accelerated by gentle friction. When suppuration sets in, as is usually indicated by the occurrence of rigors, poxiltices should be ap- plied, and the diet should be restricted as much as possible. When matter has formed, it may be expedient, unless the pain is excessive, to delay evacuation till the matter has approached the surface, and the red and prominent integuments indicate that it is superficial—quite an exception to the ordinary rules of surgery in like circumstances ; for thus, the cavity of the abscess is thought to heal sooner, and without the formation of sinuses—thus avoiding future severities by incision. The direction of the incision should radiate from the nipple towards the periphery of the organ, as there is thus less likelihood of troublesome bleeding. There is certainly no advantage in allowing the abscess to follow its own course ; for in severe or neglected cases, the gland may be, as it were, dissected out by the pus separating its component parts; or many sinuses may form, communicating with each other, intersecting the whole mamma, and mixed up with intercurrent abscess. When such sinuses exist, they do not require to be each incised throughout their whole extent, as was recommended by Mr, Hey of Leeds, instead of the still more severe practice of his day; it is enough to secure satisfactory evacuation by dilating the orifices, or by affording a suitable coimter- opening, and then, by pressure and the use of astringent and stimulating injections, to favour contraction of the cavities. In this we generally succeed ; and continuance of the pressure is further useful, in promoting discussion of the morbid induration by which the track of the sinuses is surrounded. It may be applied by bandaging, by careful application of strips of adhesive plaster, or by means of the air or water cushion, as recommended by Mr. Arnott. Chronic.—The mamma is subject to enlargement and induration, by reason of a slow and almost painless inflammatory change. This may be