FISTULA LACHKYMALIS. 666 Fig. 243. with a syphihtic taint of system. The state, that the natural course of the lachrymal fluids will be restored, and that the outward opening (listula lachrymalis) in the sac will close. Mucocele, a chronic inflammatory alfcction of the lachrymal sac, is not luicommon; the process reaching no higher than congestion, with hyper- secretion, and limited almost entirely to the lining membrane. An indolent swelling occurs beneath the tendon of the orbicularis, soft, fluctuating, comparatively painless, and capable of being emptied by pressure ; for the puncta remain open, and through them the mucous, milky, or puriform secretion escapes upwards. The passage downAvards is usually obstructed ; and, indeed, this circumstance seems in most cases to be the origin of the malady. Sometimes this chronic distension of the sac is the result of an acute or subacute inflammatiory attack of its mucous membrane. In otlier cases, it is chronic from the first, and due to disease of the bone, of the periosteum, or of the mucous lining of the sac itself; and in these, the state of the general system is usually unsatisfactory. There is a con- stant liability to acute accession, from but slight causes ; and when such an aggravation does occur, the progress is likely to be rapid and. untoward. Suppuration and outward discharge take place; and fistula lachrymalis is established, comph'cated perhaps with necrosis of the os unguis. Treatment consists in prophylactic care, so as to avert such unto- ward events ; in attention to the general health ; in maintaining a com- paratively empty state of the sac, by occasional pressure; and in the use of stimulant collyria, or ointments. Sometimes vesication over the sac, by nitrate of silver or tincture of iodine, is of use; at other times, the application of a few leeches will prove serviceable. It is in such cases that slitting up the canaliculus into the sac, so as to provide a free regurgitant escape for the collected fluid, and a suitable opening for the passage of probes from above downwards through the contracted nasal duct, is found to afi'ord immediate and permanent relief t For overcoming structural obstruction in the nasal duct, any injection of the sac through the punctum is qiute ineffective. Fistula Lachrymalis. How this condition is produced, has already been explained. Ob- struction takes place in the nasal duct; the lachrymal sac inflames, suppurates, and ulcerates—the ulcerated aperture discharging externally; and the wound, oidy contracting, does not heal This train of events may originate in the laclixymal passages, and usually does s But the origin may be in the subcutane- ous areolar tissue, as already stated ; or ui the bone and periosteum, in connection greater number of cases, however, are of a simple nature ; originatmg m the lachrymal passages ; and seldom involving the deeper parts. rig. 243. Fistula lachrymalis. The chronic stage pstablishcil; and the aperture small.