222 THE TYING OF ARTERIES. and with their prehensile surfaces accurately adjusted to each other. Or the spring artery forceps, Avith accurately fitting tootlied points, may be used ; and in most cases they are preferable. First, because maintaining a secure hold of the vessel—even when left to themselves, independently of the hand of the surgeon ; and so, in the case of scarcity of assistance, admitting of the bleeding orifices being more rapidly silenced. Secondly, because it is diihcult for the assistant who secures the noose, to include the ex- tremity of the instrument along with that of the vessel—a casualty not unlikely to occur with the ordinary forceps, among inexperienced fingers, or even with much expertness in a deep and narrow wound. Especial care is taken that nothing but arterial tissue is included in the noose; and, to this end, the surrounding textures are pushed back by the finger nail, if need be. By the interposition of other tissues than the arterial, at least three dangers are encountered. 1. The inner coat is not divided ; does not resile from the bight of the ligature, and so become favourably situated for adhesion of the external coat taking place ; but remains in the em- brace, and must slough, inflame, and ulcerate. 2. I^erve or vein, being usually in close apposition to the artery, is likely to be included ; and deligation of either is likely to induce results both painful and dangerous. 3. There is a larger extent of slough rendered unavoidable. For its separation, a proportionally great amount of ulceration must ensue ; and thus the danger of secondary hemorrhage is increased. On the other hand, if the vessel, by laxity of the surrounding parts, be much protruded in an isolated state, the noose should be applied near the base of such projection ; otherwise the vital power necessary for sub- sequent occlusion might prove deficient. In obedience to this sound maxim, it may happen that after application of the ligature a considerable portion of bare artery is left dangling in the wound. It is Avell to shorten this, by knife or scissors ; for obvious reasons. But in ordinary wounds this is seldom required. The first noose is drawn tightly ; not with force sufficient to en- danger a tearing through of all the tunics ; but so as to insure the giving . way of the internal and middle coats—a cir- ^ —^ cumstance so essential to adhesion, and con- ^5==>i^=5ji[ ^ sequent permanent occlusion. The second ll^^^^^^ys noose is also firmly applied; and so as to (( J ^ constitute the reef-knot ; one which will \>5;__jj5-s:===s*^ neither slip, nor be pushed off by the arterial Fig. 99. impulse. In this manner, each vessel is tied; rapidly, so as to prevent un- necessary loss of bloodyet not hastily, so as to endanger carelessness and inefficiency of deUgation. Every vessel which is plainly ai-terial and plainly bleeding, should be secured. In an extensive Avound, there are muscular branches which seem small and unimportant, after we have just completed the treatment of the larger trunks ; the patient is probably by this time faint; and the bleeding from these points may be little more than mere oozing. Still, experience inculcates the expediency of deliga-, tion being extended to most of these. Otherwise, so soon as reaction Fig. 99. The surgeon's knot roughly shewn ; not yet tightened.