398 PROGKESS OF ANEUEISM. pressed, hy absorption—and latterly by ulceration. Or, it may happen, accidentally, that the progress of ulceration in the mucous membrane may bo reversed. For example, an aneurismal tumour may compress the lower part of the trachea, threatening aspliyxia; tracheotomy is per- formed, and a long elastic tube is worn in the wound ; the extremity of that tube presses upon the apex of the aneurism, and by that pressure ulceration of the mucous membrane is induced ; the ulceration continues advancing towards the aneurism, and so the latter's cavity may be exposed. Or, the pressure of aneurism on the oesophagus may be mistaken for the narrowing of that tube by stricture ; and the use of bougies, causing ulceration in the bulging mucous membrane, may lead to a like calamity. 3. A serous cavity is opened, by attenuation of the serous mem- brane, from absorption under the continued pressure; and then laceration of the sac and serous membrane takes place at the attenuated part. When, at any stage of its progress, the aneurism becomes diffuse, the symptoms are materially altered. Pulsation is diminished in conse- quence of pressure which is exercised on the arterial tube by the blood infiltrated around; and, when the infiltration occurs to but a limited extent, not exceeding what the general circulation of the part can bear, it may happen—all untoward circ\imstances remaining aloof—that thus the probability of spontaneous cure may be enhanced. Indeed, in some cases, we have no hesitation in attributing the origin of spontaneous cure to the occurrence of the diffused form. But it is more likely that the issue will acquire an untoward tendency by this event; the limb is endangered, and secondarily the system. The interruption to arterial flow, by rapid and profuse infiltration of blood into the general tissues, may be so great as at once to occasion gangrene of the limb. Or the arterial iniiux may be but partially interrupted; enough passing barely to maintain vitality at the first. By and by the inflammatory process begins in this part of weakened power, and, proving destructive in its results, produces not merely difi'use suppuration but sloughing. JSTay, the whole limb may be struck with gangrene thus secondarily ; and this is all the more likely, if local stimuli have been imprudently employed. Early amputation then affords the only prospect of preserv- ing life. When part of the infiltration is superficial, discoloration of the integument necessarily attends ; and let not this be mistaken for an indication of gangrene already established. The Fatal issue of aneurism, then, may occur in various ways. 1. By hemorrhage. The intervening textures have all given way, as for- merly detailed. A gusli of blood follows establishment of the open con- dition. But this is not always at once fatal, especially when the aneurism opens on a mucous membrane, even in the case of the largest and most active tumours. A portion of the coagulum, becoming impacted in the orifice, for a time stems the flow. By and by this plug may be extruded or dislodged, and hemorrhage returns ; again it may be arrested, and again return ; and thus by repetition of bleedings, the patient is ultimately ex- hausted, and perishes.* Or death by bleeding maj'^ be altogether arrested; the clot remaining firm, and the mucous membrane healing over it—the * It is remarkable what powers of an-est and delay Nature has in tliis particular. The late Mr. Listen died of aortic aneurism. In July profuse hemorrhage took place