AMPUTATION IN GANGRKNE. 150 is calmly awaited. For, iintil the line of separation Las been formed, w e cannot know how far the gangrenous seizure has extended. If we ampu- tate during progi-ess, it is not unlikely that we shall be cutting in parts foredoomed. They had not power to resist the injlammatio dehilu, which was gradually creeping on; and certainly will not, for an instant, withstand tqe graver amount of inflammatory attack, which such formid- able incisions must inevitably produce. And, further; even after the line of separation has occurred, and is duly advancing, it is probable that, local as well as general debihty being still great, the parts have just power enough to sustain the spontaneous inflammatory change necessary for the ulcerative process, and would undoubtedly perish under the greater amount induced by the stimulus of incision. Therefore we wait, not only until the line of demarcation has been made, and separation begun; but until the latter has been in a great measure completed; assisting Nature's amputation, rather than operating ourselves ; using our knife and saw merely to divide the fibrous and osseous textures, which are slow to ulcerate in this way; injuring the hving parts as httle as possible j yet sloping the knife upwards, in order to have an opportunity of sawing the bone so high, as to afford a fair prospect of the stump proving sufficiently fleshy and useful. In such cases, the system is intolerant of loss of blood ; and that is another reason why incisions should be so guarded. There is a circum- stance, however, attendant on the disease, very favourable in this point of view. The dry, hard, impenetrable sphacelus has the same effect on the arterial tubes, on its cardiac aspect, as a hgature. Remora of their cir- culation is induced; coagulation takes place, and each arterial canal is obstructed, up to the nearest open collateral branch. As the line of separation passes through, the vessels are further and more securely shut up, adhesively; such ulceration being of the sthenic kind, and, as usual, preceded and accompanied by plastic formation. Even supposing, there- fore, that our knife does encroach a Httle on the living parts, higher than the line of spontaneous ulceration, hemorrhage is likely to prove but triiiing. 4. In the chronic gangrene which is induced by cold—an obvious external cause, and independent of constitutional vice or failing—we still await the line of demarcation; for, otherwise, we cannot tell how far the fatal amount of local depression has extended. But after separation has been fairly and spontaneously begun, we do not hesitate to amputate; and with the option of either finishing Nature's operation just commenced, or of cutting in a higher and perhaps more suitable locality. For, the debility being only local, temporary, and not dependent on organic change, occurrence of the line of separation is sufficient evidence that in every point of the living parts there is then tolerance of operation. Often a better stump can be fashioned at a liigher point than that which IsTature has happened to select. But were such amputation to be made previous to arrest of the gangrene, most probably the flaps would sj)eedLly slough. Tlius then, when gangrene is acute and humid, dei^endent on an external cause, and unconnected with a previously existing failure of system, or organic change in the general Hmb, we amputate, il' the general symptoms admit of it, during progress of the disease; without waiting for