KESECTION OF JOINTS. 369 muscles and tendons are hard, rigid, and at no time, and under no cir- cumstance, shew the shghtest variation of condition. The propriety of attention to position in the joint may be hero again urf ed, in those cases in whicli the occurrence of complete and irremedi- able anchylosis is expected, in order that the rigid member may possess its maximum of usefulness; while the satisfactory results attending upon excision of the elbow should determine our choice of resorting at an early period to this operation, rather than to continue treatment which can ordj terminate in anchylosis as its best result. Resection or Excision of Joints. Articular caries is the disease which demands this operation. The ioints most suited to its performance are the elbow and shoulder. In ^ome forms of external injury, as will afterwards be seen, removal of the Liead of the femur is far from being an unwarrantable proceeding; and there are also some rare cases of morbus coxarius, in wliich recourse to fesection is by no means unreasonable. The knee, too, has been resected for disease, with varying success. But upon the whole these last named loiats, as well as those of the wrist and ankle, must hold a subordinate )lace as to suitableness for the operation. Eesection of joints was first proposed and practised, in the end of (ast century, by Mr. White of Manchester, Mr. Park of Liverpool, and \L Moreau of Paris. For a time it fell into desuetude. But in the oeginning of the present century it was revived by various surgeons; l-mong whom Eoux, Hey, and Crampton, may be mentioned. And from ^Ir. Syme it has received such especial impetus, as to place it secure ^mong the regular operations of surgery j and those of the better class |ioo—Conservative. I By free incision, the joint is reached ; and by cautious dissection, the Jiseased parts are exposed to their full extent. Then, by the saw, cut- ting phers, or both, not only the carious surface is removed, but also the ioft, spongy, impotent, and softened texture beyond. The cutting fliers are very useful in opening up the joint; but for the final section f the bone the saw is always to be preferred, leaving no bruise behind. )uring the dissection for full exposure of the diseased parts, the knife's dge is carried in close proximity to the bone; so as to avoid un- necessary injury to the soft parts, especially the arterial and nervous runks. The soft parts may be very much altered in structure; dense, pale, <nd swoln ; and the bone external to the articulation may be spicular and Italactitic; yet experience tells us that it is unnecessary to remove any portion of them. On re-adjustment of the wound, fresh and more vigor- ous suppuration is established ; and the altered tissues change, ultimately ;oramg to form healthy granulations, and otherwise contributing to com- netion of the cure. Adhesion of the wound is not to be expected; and treatment is I reeled accordingly, so as to secure a free drain for blood, serum, and i-^; results of suppuration afterwards. The greater part of the surface ne incision may, however, adhere at once; and in some joints, accord- 2 B