623 rKACTUKE WITHOUT DISPLACEMENT. ktate of insensibility. But let it be borne in mind that such a combina- [ion of circumstances by no means certainly denotes the existence of Tacture at the base; the insensibility may be that of concussion or of ntoxication ; the bleeding may proceed from mere laceration of the 3chneiderian membrane and of the lining of the meatus—or rupture of ,he membrana tympani—and from injury of the tongue by the teeth. When, however, we have such bleedings accompanied by urgent insen- ibility, obviously of the nature of coma; when the head symptoms either emain unimproved, or advance untowardly ; and, more especially, when )y and by the "welling of the ear" appears, and the fluid, by its large )roportion of chloride of sodium and very small quantity of albumen, 3 found to be identical with the cerebro-spinal fluid; and lastly when maurosis and facial paralysis coexist—we may safely conclude that racture at the base has occurred. The treatment must plainly be prophylactic and expectant, as already dvised in the case of compression by inaccessible extravasation. There 3 no room for operative interference, for the parts injured are quite be- ond our reach. If the compression be happily got over, we must then e very watchful of inflammatory accession. In all cases, prognosis is nfavourable ; the majority prove fatal—either immediately by coma :om extravasation, or more remotely from the efi'ects of inflammatory regress. Such cases, however, are by no means necessarily hopeless, van when paralysis accompanies the other lesions. Nor must we deny, 5 some authorities have been inclined to do, the authenticity of a case fracture of the base of the skull, for no other and better reason than .t recovery has resulted. It must also be remembered that fissure of the cranial base may cur without any characteristic symptoms being evinced ; the patient leming to labour under mere concussion. The fissure may have been ight; and the solution of continuity may have been confined to the •ne alone. The membranes remain entire ; and there is no inward icape of blood. Compression, by extravasation, necessarily does not pervene; and inflammatory danger may be warded off by ordinary Such cases, however, are of comparatively rare occurrence ; more less laceration of the brain's substance being the common accompani- ent, and the great risk, in fracture of the bads cranii. Fracture withoid Displacement. The most common solution of continuity in the cranium is not a mere re; but a fracture, analogous to comminuted fracture of the long fnes; reducing the injured part to the condition of being broken up ") one or more fragments; and these, though undoubtedly somewhat placed at the time of the accident, may or may not remain displaced, jhen there is no displacement, the dangers to be apprehended are such jare common to other injuries of the head, apparently less severe ; cou- pon ; excessive reaction, bringing compression either by extravasation by acute inflammatory accession; or a more insidious inflammatory ^cess, occurring at a more remote period. The fracture may be simple, j compound, or with wound. The compound is necessarily of a more