1182 TERTIARY SYPHILIS. more normal tint, and is adherent to the tissues below. The marfrin of each of the sores then becomes continuous with the granulation, with which the surface of the ulcer is now covered; and when healing Is complete, a depressed cicatrix, at first of a dark red or livid colour, occu- pies the site of the sore ; but this ultimately, when sound, becomes of a dull white colour. These gummata may occur upon any part of the body ; the lower extremities, the extensor aspect of joints, the front of the thigh and the scrotum, are, however, their most usual sites. They also form in the substance of the tongue, where they are liable to be mistaken for cancer of that organ. In the soft palate and mucous membrane of the pharynx and nares, they occasion at times a very extensive and almost phagedsenic ulcerative destruction of the textures. Affecting the orifice of the Eusta- chian tube, they produce more or less permanent deafness. Involving the pharynx, oesophagus, rectum, or vagina, stricture of these canals may be produced by the cicatricial contraction. Implicating the larynx, aphonia, oedema glottidis, necrosis and exfoliation of the cartilage, and permanent contraction of the organ of voice, may be expected to occur. Similar nodules to those which constitute the early stage of these gummy tumours and " areolar tissue ulcers," are coetaneously met with in internal organs, but are supposed by some not to have the same tendency to undergo softening changes as when superficially situated. By others again, all tertiary affections of periosteum, bones, nerves, and internal organs, are believed to be precisely analogous in morbid anatomy and pathology of formation to these "tertiary nodules" or "tubercles"— modified as to symptoms and results only by the site and nature of the tissue in which they occur. Syiohilitic Affections of Bones present three types.—1. The hard syphilitic node, due to limited thickening and hyperplastic enlargement of its osseous structure; existing both upon the surface beneath the peri- osteum, and also internally towards the medullary canaL 2. The soft fluctuating syphilitic node. Here, peripherally, there is hyperplastic ossific product. Centrally, by conversion of the dense lami- nated tissue of bone into a porous honey-combed structure, due to absorp- tion of the calcareous constituents with coincident multiplication of the cell structures, medullary tissue results. This, in turn, by further cell multiplication and fatty degeneration, becomes fluescent, forming an elastic fluctuating collection beneath the periosteum; which resembles ia its early stage a chronic abscess. In some cases death of some portion of the osseous tissue accompanies this change in the nutrition of its constituents, and an exfoliation is thus formed (Syphilitic JSTecrosis). 3. General enlargement of the shafts of one or more of the long bones ; the tissue both externally and internally becoming condensed, with a nodular or stalactitic surface. These three forms of syphilitic affections of bone, as regards both the period and the frequency of their appearance, occur in the order described. Similar affections to the gummata are met with in muscles, tendons, and fibrous tissues, in the synovial membranes, and in internal organs ; and the testis, liver, lungs, brain, and muscular substance of the heart.