110 THE HEALTHY HEALING SORE. with a vieAv to the ulcer retaining its healthy cliaracter, until cicatrization is satisfactorily completed. Our attention will be specially directed towards the primce vice; clearing away noxious matter by purgatives, amending secretion by alteratives, increasing tone by appropriate reme- dies, and having due regard to the suitableness of regimen. The tendency of the simple sore, unless when over-stimulated either by accidental injury or by malapraxis, is towards the second class, as already stated. And the prominent signs of change are to be found in the granulations, which become paler, taller, oedematous, less sensitive and vascular, overshooting the level of the surrounding skin; according to the common phrase, they are exiiberant or prmul. This coming change is to be met by a corresponding alteration in the treatment; the water- dressing being medicated, so that, by its stimulant quality, vigour may be duly maintained in the part, and degeneration prevented. When the process of cicatrization is by any cause long delayed, how- ever, deterioration often does occur, in spite of our best efforts to the contrary. Aud so long as exuberant granulations remain above the sur- rounding level, no good progress can be made ; for unless the old skin and granulating surface be on the same level, or nearly so, new cuticular formation does not advance. The exuberance must be brought doAvn ; and for this purpose many remedies are in use. Escharotics may be employed; nitrate of silver, or sulphate of copper. The effect, however, is painful; not always easily hmited, so as to save the pelHcle already formed ; and not unlikely to be followed by inflammatory excess ; undoing the granulating texture, by ulceration established afresh. Dry pressure is in all respects preferable; less painful; with ordinary care, easily limited to the part desired ; and not likely to exceed in its effect. A portion of lint or charpie is neatly laid over the sprouting granulations; carefully avoiding the surrounding pellicle of new skin—therefore always rather too small than too large ; and, if we wish to have the tender mar- gins especially protected, we may cover them with thin pledgets of fine lint spread with simple ointment—over all a plate of sheet-lead moulded to the general surface being laid, so as to afford equable support. This dressing is retained by a few turns of a bandage; not very tightly ap- plied however; for the intention is merely to occasion absorption of the granulations, with a sthenic augmentation of vascular function around. It is plain, therefore, that care is necessary not only in adapting the compress, but also in applying the retentive bandage; lest either or both induce a greater result than is suited to the object in view. A few hours' use of a gentle compress will sometimes suffice. In all cases, the dressing should be early undone ; that it may be desisted from, so soon as the desired result has been obtained. Then—granulations and skm being onde more on a level—the simple protective dressing is resumed ; and cicatrization proceeds afresh. In certain situations, as the neck, the application of pressure may be inconvenient or altogether impracticable ; and, under such circumstances, an escharotic is to be used gently. 2. The Weak Sore. This is usually the result of the preceding ; when, from any cause, local