1300 T11EATMI5NT OF MOllBUS COXAKIUS. When tlio second stage is thoroughly attained, all severity of treat- ment is inexpedient; there being then no longer any hope of saving structure. When matter has formed, and is plainly discernible, seeking the surface, an early opening is advisable—here as elsewhere ; an aper- ture must form sooner or later, and early evacuation may not only give relief, but may also limit the size of the abscess. Then we may hope only for a minor result of treatment—anchylosis ; or for gradual cessation of disease, leaving the joint crank, weak, yet movaljle, and a limb im- paired in both its symmetry and function. To conduce towards such ends, we mainly trust to general treatment; keeping the parts steady by means of splints. Even at this advanced stage, if possible, it v/ill be found advantageous to straighten the limb. No violence, however, is justifiable ; and chloro- form is administered simply with the view of affording complete muscular relaxation, which the timidity of the patient would be sure unintention- ally and unconsciously to resist. When the straight posture 'can be effected, it should be maintained—by means of the long wooden splint; by which simple application the increasing deformation of the joint is prevented, and while the spontaneous arrest of the disease is favoured, the position is the most favourable for usefulness after anchylosis. In open disorganization of the joint, the straight splint, however, may not be tolerated ; and then relief is obtained from the gutta percha or leather splints, or from the use of the starch bandage suitably appHed, as in the advanced affections of other joints. When from synovitis, imperfectly resolved, stiffness of the hip remains, orthopaedic treatment may be apphed with advantage ; friction, passive motion, and perhaps subcutaneous section of resisting muscles. But in the case of anchylosis following structural change in the joint, the result of true morbus coxarius, all such attempts will be wisely desisted from; we ought rather to content ourselves with possession of a partial cure, than incur the risk of return of the disease in an aggravated form There are cases, however, in which the propriety of resection may be not unreasonably entertained ; when, in an open state of the joint, after spontaneous dislocation, the head of the bone seems to cause much ex- citement in its new site ; when there is good reason to suppose that the disease has all along been chiefly limited to the head of the bone, leaving the acetabulum comparatively uninjured ; and when it seems probable that, after removal of the head of the femur, quiet might be restored to the joint, and a certain degree of useful motion might be regained. Successful cases are already on the records of surgery.* The diagnosis of morbus coxarius from other diseases is important. It is simulated by sciatica, by enlargement of bursse, by disease of the lumbar vertebrae or of the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, by rheumatism, by interstitial absorption of the neck of the thigh-bone in the aged, and by wasting of the limb consequent on general irritation in the young. 1. Sciatica is known by the pain following the course of the sciatic nerves; the whole thigh and leg is lame ; position of the trochanter, and the length of the limb, are unchanged. 2. Beneath the conjoint tendon of the psoas * Fide Lancet, No; 1285, p. 414. In the same Journal, the question of resec- tion, as applicable to this joint, will be found well stated, No. 1283, p. 362.