RISKS OF THE OPERATION. 1099 III. Urinary Infiltration is the most serioiis risk in lithotomy ; and the one of most frequent occurrence. To obviate it, the following points are of essential importance :—Maintain the reflection of the ileo-vesical fascia entire, at the base of the prostate ; that gland being not divided throughout its whole extent, by the knife. Make the general wound conical in form ; tlie base at the integument of the perineum ; the trun- cated apex at the prostate. Make the general wound also sloping in form, its faU being from the prostate obliquely downwards—cutting ob- liquely up to the bladder, not directly into it; also arranging the patient's trunk in bed, so as to favour this sloping form, obviously so well calculated for the ready di-aining away of the urine. In using the linger in dilatation, avoid all laceration; torn parts being but ill-disposed for rapid plastic formation. Eetain the tube for the necessary number of hours ; and keep it clear from coagulum, or other source of obstruction. Farther, the risk by infiltration is certainly diminished, by not operating unless the urinary organs and general system are free from excitement, the kidney acting healthily, and the urine in a satisfactory condition; and also by maintaining, after the operation, a supply of urine which is bland as well as copious—mainly aqueous, and containing but a sparing amount of saline matter, For, if infiltration do occur to some extent, it will be less hazardous to part and system under such circumstances, than if the infiltrated fluid were the acrid and scanty urine of fever or of renal disease. Urinary infiltration is indicated by the following symptoms :—A hot pain is felt in the site of the deep wound, thence creeping up the left hypogastric region, which by and by becomes tender on pressure; the pulse gi'OAvs rapid and weak—denoting constitutional irritation, not in- flammatory fever; the skin is hot and dry; the tongue and lips are parched and dark-coloured ; the wound is dry and glazed in its edges, afterwards emitting a foetid sanies ; and the secretion of urine is in great measure arrested. Ultimately hiccough comes on, the abdomen grows tympanitic, and the patient is carried off in typhoid prostration. The local changes are—sloughing of the infiltrated areolar tissue, under an asthenic inflammatory process ; with thin, foetid discharge. Treatment, is by the ordinary means, adapted to bear the system through the irritation dependent on such a cause. And if the wound do not seem free and sloping enough, that defect may be remedied by en- largement of the external incision at its lower part. At first we may be for some time uncertain whether the case is one of this nature, or peri- tonitis ; and then a sparing application of leeches over the tender hypo- gastrium is expedient. After infiltration is declared, however, further spoliation or depression is quite unwarrantable. By some it has been thought advisable to enlarge the wound, and to divide the rectum at the same time, by the sweep of a curved bistoury ; on the principle of freely incising the infiltrated parts, and permitting the noxious fluids a ready outlet. IV. Urinary Infiltration and Peritonitis may occur together ; an un. happy combination—known, or at least suspected, by a blending of the signs and symptoms of each. In treatment, it is perplexing to deter- mine whether the one disease shall be more considered than the other.