313 FEAGILITAS OSSIUM. but when, nevertheless, it has evidently become imequal to a prolonga- tion of the contest. Such cases, however, constitute but a small minority. The greater nnmber are prosperous in their issue; if duly conducted. The system, which has borne up long, is enabled to sustain its task till the end; the dead part is separated and discharged; the substitute con- denses and solidifies; the swelUng of the soft parts subsides ; purulent formation diminishes, and the apertures in both hard and soft parts are closed; tli(3 limb is not only saved, but is as useful as before. On the one hand, we must beware of sacrificing life, in vain endea- vour to save a limb ; and on the other, we must be equally careful not to sacrifice a Hmb, in our anxiety to succour life not yet brought into actual danger; a dilemma in practice, from whose horns we can extri- cate ourselves, only by a happy combination of knowledge, judgment, and exj)erience. And, in relation to this subject, it is important to re- member, that necrosis is not always as extensive as it outwardly seems. Discharge may be copious, fistulse numerous, soft parts extensively in- volved, and constitutional disturbance great; and still the sequestrum may be of but limited extent, both in sui'face and in depth. Eecom'se to amputation may also be advisable, in the case of exten- sive death of a bone throughout its whole thickness, when the expected reproduction has failed. The limb then bends, shrivels, and is worse than useless; its removal becoming a matter of expediency, in the eyes of both patient and practitioner. In consequence of neglect, a limb may be presented to us much bent, and otherwise deformed; with a large blackened sequestrum, partially protruded from the surface. The appearance may be altogether so un- promising, as to lead a hasty and inexperienced observer at once to ad- vise amputation. But this is never warrantable, under even such circumstances, unless the system be abeady sunk very low, and plainly unable to bear a prolongation of the strain. Then we amputate to save hfe ; but in the majority of even such examples, we ought to save both Hfe and limb. The sequestrum is removed, with an expenditure of as little blood as possible; the limb is laid in sphnts; the bending is gradually undone, by bandaging; by suitable diet and medicine, consti- tutional power is maintained ; and thorough restoration of the limb may be ultimately obtaiued. PEAGILITAS OSSIUM. Bones are Uable to become brittle, by reason of change in their structure. By some this has been attributed to the absence of fluoric acid as a constituent of the skeleton ; permittmg the phosphate of lime to assume the crystaUine form, and so rendering the bone affected more liable to fracture. Be this as it may, in all such cases oily matter exists ^ unusual quantity; the osseous texture is lighter and more spongy than the normal state ; and by interstitial absorption the external laminated portion has been diminished by conversion into medullary tissue. In ruth the bone may be .said to consist of cancellous texture, fiUed with an oily substance, and surrounded externally by a thin brittle lamella.