562 TREATMENT OF DISLOCATION. the bone is guided towards its normal position. The act of reduction is usually sudden; indicated sometimes by a distinct snap, but more fre- quently by a peculiar grating sensation, unattended by noise, as if a muscle, or the bone itself, had given way. The proper length of the limb is immediately restored, and normal relative position re-established. In obstinate cases, a sudden slackening of the extending cord—com- bined with a jerking, coaptating movement of the surgeon, at the joint— greatly facilitates, in truth may eflCect, reduction. An ingenious device for suddenly "letting go" the extension force, has been for several years in use in the Aberdeen Infirmary, the invention of an ingenious student of that school. It consists of a pair of calipers or "shears" made of tough steel. These are hinged to a bar which connects them with the pullies, while the laque is held by a steel hook, which is in turn " kept" by the ellipsis formed by the opposition of the two branches of the "shears." When the surgeon desires "to let go," by pressing down a small lever, a hook hinged to the one branch is displaced from its hold upon a pin, fixed upon the other arm of the instrument, and thus the continuity of the shears is immediately dissolved, permitting the blades to gape and the steel hook to glide from their embrace. During extension—if anassthesia be not employed—it is well to engage the patient in a sustained conversation; insisting upon lus answers; in order that he may not, by deep inspiration, make his trunk a fixed point on which muscular resistance may be raised. So soon as the signs of reduction have occurred, the extending force is instantly desisted from. It may happen that after patient extension, rotation, and coaptation, our efforts are unsuccessful; and yet the muscles are lax and passive j the head of the bone can be moved freely; it can be brought to the plane of the deserted articulating surface—and still it refuses to enter. In the case of the acetabulum, it may be the brim of the cavity which proves the obstacle ; and, by a jack towel placed under the thigh, the bone may be jerked, tilted, or lifted over that last obstruction into its iDlace. But even this last-mentioned addition to the reductive means niayi; fail. Under such circumstances, it is plainly the formation of acUiesions that constitutes the obstructing cause; and if very free rotation hav failed to overcome this, the case may possibly be suitable for resorting the subcutaneous section of the ojDposing tissues. A strong tenotom knife, with a long shank, may be introduced, and moved in such a tion as to clear an open passage towards the articulating cavity. puncture having been carefully closed, the extending force is to be apphed; and the coaptating means will then most probably .succeed, i that readily. Still it must be remembered that there is a certain amoi of risk in this procedure ; and that three things are necessary to warran its adoption—namely, failure of all other simpler means, tolerable cer tainty of accomplishing the object in view, and rational consent of th patient. In regard to old luxations, an important question arises, as to tn time at which attempts at reduction cease to be warrantable. For afte a considerable period has elapsed, the new articulation becomes very ."erviceable, and the old may have begun to be effaced. Then atteinp