HYDEOCELE. 1233 rapidly. The latter treatment consists in withdrawing the serum, and injecting a stimulant fluid instead, whereby a mild inflammatory process may be established, whose resolution, when complete, shall have the efiect of restoring the normal balance between exhalation and absorption. Simple tapping may be performed by the thrust of a lancet; the flat end of a probe being afterwards used to keep the wound open, during the flow of serum, if necessary. Or a small exploring trocar and canula may be employed. When injection is contemplated, a medium-sized trocar and canula are to be preferred. The patient is placed erect. The surgeon, grasping the tumour firmly belaind, with his left hand, renders it tense and pro- minent in front; then the instrument is entered, perpendicularly ; after- wards, it is passed obliquely upwards, so as to avoid wound of the testicle, and yet taking care that the obliquity is not such as endangers separation of the coverings of the sac, and non-entrance into the sac itself. The serum having been withdrawn, a syringe is adapted to the canula, and the Fig. 343. Fig. 344. cavity is partially filled with some stimulant fluid. Port wine, undiluted, or a solution of the sulphate of zinc, used to be much employed. Now, the injection of iodine is alone used ; the pure tincture of iodine being thrown in, and permitted to remain permanently in the sac—disappear- ing ultimately by absorption.* After a few seconds, the patient will * Iodine injection was first used by Dr. J. E. Martin of India. The form employed was 5j of tincture of iodine to 5iii of water. Of this, in ordinary hydi-o- celes, a small syringeful was injected and retained ; in large swellings, two syringe- fuls were used. His experience extended over upwards of 2000 cases in the Native Hospital, Calcutta, and failures were imder one per cent. His first operation was in Fig. 343. Operation of tapping hydrocele ; the trocar entering. Fig. 344. Diagram shewing the direction of the trocar ; a, the direction of per- forating, to avoid splitting of the parietes ; the direction aftei-wards changed to b, to avoid wound of the testicle. 4 K