1129 RETENTION FROM ENLARGED PROSTATE. rectum, with a sensation of weight in that bowel and in the perineum^; sometimes the fteces are passed flattened, as in stricture of the rectum. On introducing a catheter, some difficulty is likely to be met with in passing the region of the prostate ; and when a linger in the rectum is made to press upwards on the catheter, the enlarged prostate is plainly felt between. Without the use of the catheter or bougie, tactile examination is never certain. As the tumour enlarges, calls to empty the bladder are more frequent, and the act is less perfectly accomplished; as formerly stated, a portion of residuary water remains, cooped up behind the enlargement. The bladder sympathizes ; it may become irritable ; more fre- quently, a degree of chronic cystitis is excited. The urine changes, in consequence; becoming dark-coloured, foetid, and full of mucus. The vesical aspect of the pro- jection may ulcerate, giving rise to hsematuiia, purulent tu'ine, and aggravation of all the distress. The difficulty in micturition increases ; and at last—some casualty acting as an exciting cause—retention occurs. Generally, this has not existed long, before the " surface water" comes to dribble away ; and, by the establishment of incontinence, the retention is partially reheved, as formerly stated. It may happen, however, that the obstruction is complete ; and by retention the patient may perish Or, the whole \irinary system having become involved in disease, death takes place by gradual exhaustion. In some cases pytemia sets in, proving rapidly fatal, with the forma- tion of multiple abscesses, situated in internal parts, in superficial tissues, or in the joints. In other instances the prostatic inflammatory irritation induces a rheumatic affection analagous to gonorrhoeal rheumatism, attended by copious serous accumulation, both in and around one or more of the articulations. The knee and wrist joints are more commonly affected than any other. Treatment is but palliative. We can scarcely hope to retard, much less to remove, the enlargement. Every excess and imprudence is avoided, in diet and exer- cise j and the recumbent posture is maintained as much as possible. The bowels are regulated by enemata and simple I Fig. 336. Pig. 337. aperients. Opiates are given occasionally; and acids, iron, buchu, etc., are exhibited, as the complication by chronic cystitis may seem to demand. To avert distension of the bladder, the catheter is used as often as may seem necessary. Excision of the gland has been tallied of; but scarcely in sober earnest. Fig. 336. The ordinary catheter ; of half size. Fig. 337. The prostatic catheter ; of half size.