DISLOCATION OF THE WRIST. 9-1-2 locality it can he. both seen and felt very plainly, especially on extending the limb, wLilo a depression exists corresponding to its original and normal position, Eeduclion is managed as in the preceding accident • with the hand either pronated or supinated, as may seem best. Dislocaiion of the Wrist. 1. Dislocation of the Carpus upon the Forearm.—These bones may possibly be displaced either on the dorsal or on the palmar aspect of the forearm. The accident must, however, be a very rare one indeed ; and when it does occur, will in all probability be compUcated with a fracture of the styloid process of the radius. In most instances, where it has been supposed to exist, the injury has really been a fracture of the radius in its lower third, or of the radius and ulna close above the wrist-joint Falling on the palm can alone produce displacement of the bones back- wards, while a fall on the back of the hand can alone cause the oppo- site change. In either case, the signs would be plain; a dorsal and a palmar swelling existing, composed either of the carpal bones or of the ends of the radius and uLna, as the case might be ; and, by caref idly recog- nising the situation of the styloid processes with reference to the defor- mity, the nature of the displacement would be recognized, while, by farther manipulation, it would be ascertained that neither the radius nor ulna were broken. Reduction wordd be readily effected, by extension, and coaptation by pressure on the dislocated bones. And it would be well also to maintain retention for some time, by spHnts, as for fracture of the lower third of the radius and ulna. 2. Dislocation of the Ulna.—Dislocation of the ulna backwards or forwards, the end of the bone projecting plainly, with twisting of the hand, and the line of the styloid process shewing obvious alteration, may undoubtedly occur as a symptom of fracture of the lower third of the radius, but has been spoken of as a separate phenomenon observed by one or two individuals. Where no fracture existed, I should much doubt the accuracy of any such observations ; and, in the circumstances, would recommend the treatment for fracture of the radius in its lower third to be rigidly adhered to; reduction and retention being managed as in the preceding accident. 3. Dislocation of the Carpal Bones.—Complete luxation of any of the carpal bones, separately, must be a very rare accident, if indeed it ever occurs without fracture or laceration of the soft parts. But subluxation of the OS magnum, of the cuneiform, pisiform, and semilunar bones, is spoken of by writers on surgery. Were such displacement to occur, it must weaken the carpal joints, and in the case of the os magnum and cuneiform cause projection on the back of the wrist, during flexion The treatment of such cases should consist. in continued pressure and support by a bandage, with disuse of the hand and mist for some con- siderable time, till the parts have consolidated. 4. Dislocation of the Metacarpal Bones from their Carpal Articidafim has never occurred in our exijerience without fracture; which may, ho\f- ever, be so' oblique, with the crepitus so obscure, as to bo overlooked unless attentively sought for.