1159 TREATMENT OF BUBO. poultices should be substituted for the fomentation, and the opening should be delayed till the matter is pointing through the sldn and threatening to evacuate itself spontaneously. By this delay the gland capsule is fully opened up, and all risk of a sinus communicating with the interior of the gland, followed by tardy cicatrization, will thus be avoided. The incision should be free, in most instances, to avoid the necessity for repetition of the opening ; and as conducing to more speedy healing, the tissues should be divided crucially, the knife pass- ing through the whole extent of the elevated surface of the swelling in both directions. Some recommend that such buboes as accompany the soft chancre should be opened with caustic, or that caustic should be appHed immediately after the matter has been evacuated by incision. Could we be certain beforehand that the bubo was of the virulent kind, this advice would be reasonable—one operation thus serving to open the purulent collection, and to transform the abscess-sac from a chancre into the condition of a simple sore. Unfortunately, however, though we may surmise that the bubo is virulent, we can never be certain that it is really so, until after evacuation we have an opportunity for either practising experimental inoculation with its contents, or of observing the spontaneous progress of the part subsequently. Besides, opening the sac with caustic is painful and tedious ; and when the knife is used as a pre- liminary, the flow of blood, by diffusing the caustic, interferes with its accurate appUcation, and may cause it to act injuriously upon the sur- rounding parts. We should, therefore, first evacuate the matter with the knife as already described, and then in a few days resort to the caustic, should the character of the sore in the groin indicate the propriety of such a procedure. The eniployment of caustic, too, is always better than clipping away the undermined skin, which covers in or overlies the sac of the bubo which has been inefficiently opened, or has been permitted to evacuate itself spontaneously. By some it is recommended, instead of employing a free incision, to paint the pointing bubo with a solution of the nitrate of silver, and either to permit the matter to find its own way out, or to make a number of needle punctures through which it may flow, and through which the nitrate of silver solution, or other astringent, may be injected from time to time, while pressure is maintained over the surface by means of a pad of cotton-wool and a spica bandage. In such cases the painting should be persisted in from day to day, till the discharge ceases and all is firmly healed. In favourable cases the discharge diminishes very speedily, the parts ultimately becom- ing adherent; and cicatrization when eff'ected may even leave the groin unseamed and almost unscarred. This plan has a further advantage claimed for it, that it does not require the patient to lay himself up ; admitting of young men, in many instances at all events, going about and attending to their usual daily avocations; this non-interference with their work being in their eyes, and in my own experience, the only re- commendation which this somewhat unsurgical proceeding possesses. _ The indurated bubo requires no special treatment; yielding to that suited to the syphilitic infection of which it forms a part. When one of the glands, however, continues enlarged, the use of the tincture of iodine painted over the swelling, or of the mercurial ointment, or of the