DISPTACEMENTS OF THE UTERUS. 1278 Di8j)lac.eniGnt8 of tho Uterus. Tliis organ is frequently found lying in an abnormal position. It may bo dislocated en masso, or its body jnay be displaced in regard to the. cervix ; and tlio most common malpositions are either backwards or for- wards, foraning, in tho one case, an antiversion or a retroversion, and in the other an antiflexion or a retroflexion. These changes are sometimes congenital, and may bo simple or complicated. Frequently they co-exist with tumours, chronic metritis, hypertrophy of the womb, leucon-licca, or ovarian irritation. When uncomplicated, they may cause no painful symptom whatever ; but sometimes they produce great difficulty in standing or Avalking for even a short time, disturbance of the functions of the bladder or of the rectum, a feeling of weight and bearing down, a sense of pressure at the anus, pain on going to stool, as well as many of those numerous neuralgic and other symptoms which accompany all the chronic uterine affections. On passing the finger to the roof of the vagina, the cervix uteri is found more or less displaced from its natural position; and a hard, often tender, rounded tumour is felt through the vagina. This is observed to move with the cervix, and may be traced to be continuous with it. In thin and relaxed women, it is possible during examination, by placing the free hand over the hypogastrium, and using the necessary palpation and pressure, to feel exactly the position and relations of the entu-e organ. The affection may be farther diagnosed by introducing a bougie or probe into the cavity of the organ, and ascertaining its entrance into the tumour felt through the roof of the vagina. Generally, by means of the probe, the fundus uteri forming the tumour can be depressed or removed from the fiiiger by replacement. Treatment consists in removing all local congestion and inflammatory affection, combating \iterine hypertrophy and engorgement, and arresting leucorrhoea ; in short, abstracting, as far as possible, everything which can be regarded as a cause of the production or continuance of dis- placement. Maintenance of the horizontal posture, for a length of time, is often of great service as an adjuvant. In some cases, the vaginal, and in others the intra-uterine pessaries may be tried Avith caution. Bnt, in the majority of cases, they are worse than useless. Strictwe of the Cervix Uteri May be congenital, or may result from inflammatory engorgement and- induration. The stricture, if congenital, is generally at tho os externum, or at the os internum. If acquired, it may be found at any part of the cervix, or may partially close up some extent of it. It is of rare occur- rence ; but when present may bo tho cause of dysmenoi-rhoea, and some- times it prevents conception. It is discovered by the symptoms of dysmenorrhoea; or, physically, by the difficulty of passing even a small probe through. Every case, however, where a probe cannot- be easily passed, is not therefore to be considered a case of stricture. There may be obstacles to passing a probe into the cavity of the uterus, from many