747 RHINOPLASTICS. leeching is of advantage. After arrest and cicatrization, the greatest constitutional care is still required ; otherwise reaccession of the disease is extremely probable. In many cases, the affection, as its name imports, resists all and every kind of treatment, and pursues its course for months or years, sometimes progressively, sometimes intermittently, imaffected by all remedies. In such cases, simple protection of the sur- face, and a bread and milk poultice, occasionally applied, will answer better than any more decided measures. 6. Cancerous ulcer may implicate the nose, by extension from the ace; or may originate in the former site. It is amenable to but one eatment—early removal by knife or escharotic, or by both. Rhinoplasties. AVhen the soft parts of the nose have been destroyed, partially or "hoUy, by wound, ulceration, or sloughing, they may be restored in ome measure, by transplanting a compensating amount of cutaneous and ubcutaneous tissues, borrowed from an adjoining part. When ulcera- ion has been the destroying agent, no restorative operation is ever to be attempted, until satisfactory evidence have been afforded that all ulcera- 'on has ceased, and is not very likely to return on the application of a ommon exciting cause of the inflammatory process. Under aiiy circum- tances, it is plain that the sequela of lupus presents a much less favour- hie prognosis, than when the cicatrix is the result of wound, or any ther simple casualty. When almost the entire organ has been removed, its restoration may 8 effected in different ways, of which the best are as follows* :—Two -ps of skin, of the annexed orm, having been marked ut on the cheeks, are to e dissected up from the urface of the maxillary ones. The margins A B A d A C, are then to be rought together by three or our points of silver wire uture ; and the outer edges f the flaps, as far as E and , are to be attached to the aw surface at a suitable dis- ance from the nasal aperture. The gaping wounds in the cheeks will ow be readily approximated at their outer angles by points of suture, hile the rest of the surface heals by granulation; the cicatricial depres- lon so produced tending only to add to the efi'ect of the nasal prominence, "le cavity of the new nose should be supported with lint, with com- resses applied externally on each side of the new feature, which may e retained in position by the appHcation of the blades of a small pair dissecting forceps astride the organ longitudinally. When, however, the cheeks have been destroyed by the same ulcera- * See Syme's Observations in Clinical Surgery, 2d edition, p. 58.