CHAPTER X. AFFECTIONS OF INTERNAL ORGANS IN CONNECTION WITH SURGICAL DISEASE. The not imfrequent coincidence of serious internal diseases with aifections apparently of a purely surgical character, is a circumstance of the greatest interest and importance to the practitioner, and well calcu- lated to impress upon him the necessity of some degree of knowledge of his art in all its branches. Without such knowledge, he can never be secure in determining upon, or in performing any operation; or even in the treatment of the most ordinary injuries. For it has been shewn by multipHed experience, that there is no wound, from phlebotomy to am- putation ; no concussion, from the smallest bruise to the most frightful fracture ; no disease, from that of a finger to the caries of a hip-joint or vertebral column,—^which is not very liable to be preceded, followed, or in some way or other connected, with disease of vital internal organs; so modifying diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment. The coincidence of internal with external diseases, may occur under a great variety of circumstances. It may be purely a coincidence ; or one of the diseases may stand to the other in the relation of a cause; or again, there may be an antecedent circumstance to which all are to be ascribed, as happens in most constitutional disorders. In these cases, the effect of the internal on the external disease may be such as to modify its whole characters, and thus to make itseK obvious to the most unwary and imobservant practitioner; or, on the other hand, its influence may be so insidiously exerted as not to be readily appreciable, till the shock and subsequent reaction of some great operation, or the superven- tion of some accidental febrile attack, shews the real weakness of the vital powers, and demonstrates that more tolerance of injury has been looked for than the state of the internal organs warranted. We may illustrate this subject under the following heads :— 1. Internal diseases may concur accidentally jvith external disease.— In this case they are commonly chronic, or at least of older standing than the surgical affection. It is well known that a large proportion of individuals dying of any disease, whether medical or surgical, especially if of advanced age, of dissipated habits, or otherwise exposed to the causes of morbid change, exhibit marks of either obsolete or progressive disease in vital organs, contracted at an earlier period than the fatal affec- tion. ^ Such departure from health may include a great variety of organs. In this country the most common diseases are those of the lungs, parti- cularly tubercular affections; the traces of which are found in a very large proportion, probably even in a majority of persons dying in ad-