227 SECONUARY HEMORRHAGE. A syringe, with suitable tubes and nozzles, is made on purpose for this operation. Seen to be scrupu- lously clean and well adjusted, it is brought into the same temperature with the body. A vein in the arm of the patient is laid bare, and an incision made of sufficient size to admit the tubule tlu-ough which in- jection is to be made. Blood is then \ drawn in the ordinary way from the emittent patient; and as it flows j into a basin, it is steadily injected into the recipient ; care being taken : that no air or coagulum is permitted to enter. And to avoid the former accident, the tubule is not inserted into the vein, till the syringe has expelled its air, and blood is flowing freely. Or, the syringe being pro- vided with two tubes and nozzles—an afferent and efferent, a direct communication is made between the emitting and receiving veins. The effects are watched; and the amount of injection is regulated accordingly. On an average, from half a pint to a pint will suffice to restore life and circulation. Eaj)id or excessive injection would be liable to overburden the heart, and produce serious consequences. When no apparatus is at hand, a softened bladder, with a medium-sized trochar and canula, may be made very satisfactorily to effect transfusion. The bladder should have the trochar and canula passed through its fundus. The bladder is then secured with thread around the canula, the trochar withdrawn, and the canula passed into the vein in the recipient's arm. The mouth of the bladder is then held wide open to receive the stream of blood from the emittent patient, and the transfusion is effected by gravitation ; thus avoiding all risk of air entering the vein. Accidents by phlebitis, in either patient, are not unhkely to occur ; and must be duly provided against. On this account, the operation is not expedient exce^Dt in otherwise desperate circumstances. Secondary Hemorrhage after Arterial Wound. In all cases of serious wound, whereby important arteries have been impUcated, there is risk of secondary hemorrhage. And this may occur at various times, and from different causes. 1. It may happen within a few hours after the first dressing; so soon as the patient has become hot and comfortable in bed, and reaction has been fully established. This, for distinction's sake, may be called " after bleeding," or " reactionary hemorrhage." A Kgature, clumsily apphed, may have been pushed off. More probably, some of the oozing vessels, formerly described, have been overlooked, and unwisely spared from deligation; their natural hemostatics have given way, and they are now bleeding more or less copiously. The wound must be undone, the bleeding surface fully exposed, and each vessel now carefully secured. 2. Or sloughing may attack the wound, and unoccluded vessels thus be opened into. If the slough be but partial, and the opened artery not Fig. 101. Nozzin for insertion into tlio vein, in transfusion, a, The shield which, compres-siiig the integument, pi'cviints outward escape of the blood.