544 COMPOUND FHAGTURE. fully observed, more especially as regards accuracy of adjustment. If the survey prove satisfactory, the apparatus is simply reapplied as at first. If distortion exist, the splints and bandaging are to be so an-anged as to obviate this ; gradually restoring the normal position. At the end of the fifth or sixth week—sooner in the young and healthy, later in those of advanced years and debilitated frame—union to a certain extent, by soft and new-formed bone, has occurred; and our splints may be discontinued. If any oedema exist in the distal extrt mity of the limb—as sometimes happens, notwithstanding all our care t<j the contrary—friction is to be employed, with continuance of the bandage uniformly appHed. But, so soon as oedema has gone, let all bandaging be thrown aside ; otherwise atrophy and permanent debility of the limb may ensue. The joints, by friction and passive emotion, are then gra- dually brought back to their accustomed freedom of jjlay; and when an articulation is in the near vicinity of a fracture, it is well carefully to practise passive motion of the joint at eacli undoing of the retentive ap-1 paratus, lest stiffness should occur. Use of the part must be resumed very gradually ; more especially in the lower limbs. Many a fractured leg has been set free at the ordinary time, of proper length, and void of all deformity ; which nevertheless soon became both shortened and bent, to an extent Avhich impaired both its symmetry and function. The uniting medium is soft and pliable at first, as has already been observed ; and the motto of the convalescent should be " Festina lente." Compound Fracture. The wound which renders a fracture compound may be made ati once by the fracturing violence ; or subsequently to the fracture, by theij sharp fragments protruding tlu'ough the skin ; or at a more remot period, by sup]Duration taking place at the seat of fracture, or by sloughir or ulceration of the superimposed soft parts. The most ordinary example Fig. 218. are those effected by the two first causes ; and the first is usually the most serious, as implying a great amount of external force applied. If the opening be but a puncture, or an aperture of small size, made by the sharp and almost cutting edge of the osseous lamella, and if the Fig. 218. Compound and comminuted fracture of the leg.