75i milNOPLASTICS. xnd induce its sphacelation. After union has occurred throughout the (vhole wound, the connecting slip may be raised from its temporary bed, ind the raw edges of its site approximated; or it may be left undis- ,urbed; according as circumstances may seem to indicate. Loss of the apex and both aire is supplied by a frontal flap ; with )r without lodgment of the connecting slip, according to the length of 16 nasal ridge. The ridge itself, when deficient, may be restored by a frontal flap, rery readily°and efiaciently ; either by adapting a suitable portion to its lurface, made raw; or by inserting a slip into a sulcus made for its re- Fig. 270. eption. By cutting out the depressed portion, and approximating the argius of the woimd by suture, depression may be removed, in some ■ases satisfactorily; but, in most, such an attempt would be followed by elevation of the apex, causing a deformity httle less unseemly than e original one. When the columna alone is deficient, the operation for its restoration performed, as detailed at page 750. Not imfrequently, the columna and the integumental part of the and apex remain entire, while the cartilaginous texture has suffered ore or less dilapidation ; and the nose, in consequence, shrinks, falls wards, and is much deformed. Autoplasty is not required to remedy case. In some examples it is sufficient to divide carefully the ab- normal adhesions within, to elevate the nostrils then to theu' normal vel, and to maintain this elevation subsequently by suitable stuffing of e cavities. In other cases, however, such manipulation is found iusuf- ient; and then it is expedient to approximate the cheeks, so as to Tce the nose into increased prominency ; the original insertions of the se on the cheek having been previously detached, by subcutaneous in- iion, or by dividing the remains of the organ by an incision on both Fig. 270. " The alse of the nose, deficiencies in the upper, anterior, or lateral parts the organ, in the forehead, etc., may be supplied from the neighbouring integu- ent, on the same principle as the preceding repairs. In many of these operations e flap can be so contrived and cut out, as that it can be applied without its attach- ent being twisted. The foi-m of such flaps is hero given."—Liston.