1123 EXTRAVASATION OF URINE. to perforating ulcer; 3. Eetention of urine may be relieved only by a bursting of the bladder, or by a more gradual giving way by ulceration. Actual laceration, however, is not uncommon ; and it is not difficult to understand why. Cohesion of the parts has been previously diminished, by the inflammatory process occurring in them ; and, themselves unusually lacerable, they are powerfully acted on not only by a hypertrophied detrusor, but also by the muscles of the abdominal parietes and the diaphragm. 4. The bladder may be lacerated by external injury, acting either directly upon the fundus of the distended organ, or indirectly by succussion ; as by bloAvs, or falls on hard substances, the breech being the part which comes in contact with them, more especially when the viscus happens to be distended. The nature and treatment of the first form has already been considered. The second is hopeless; the patient wiU necessarily perish, by peritonitis, or by areolar infiltration and sloughing, according to the site of the urinous escape. In the third form—that occurring by unrelieved retention—there is but little hope; yet there is some room for treatment. During violent efi'ort to overcome the obstacle to expul- sion of urine, something is felt to yield, and relief is experienced and expressed; yet—probably to the patient's surprise—no urine is seen to come by the penis. By and by, the sense of relief and comfort passes off; burning heat is felt in the infiltrated part; and the constitutional symptoms attendant on asthenic suppuration and gangrene, which must follow, declare themselves in their most formidable shape, rapidly becoming more and more typhoid, and soon ending in fatal coUapse. Or, if the viscus have fortunately given way at its most anterior part, the local mischief may advance outwardly, and perhaps evacuation by the perineum may occur, with more or less relief. Treatment obviously consists in reaching the infiltrated part, if possible, by early, free, and dependent incision, and in maintaining the powers of the system, under the strong depressing agent so busily at work, by every means at oxn: disposal. No case, in which an outward and efficient opening has been afforded, is to be considered too desperate. Nourishment and stimuli must be steadily administered. Unexpected and wonderful recoveries have rewarded per- severance. Urethral Extravasation is more common, as a consequence of stric- ture. The urethra gives way, by ulceration, at some part of its course ; and the bladder remains entire. There may not be the same sensation of something having yielded during straining ; but there is, generally, the same temporary feeling of relief having been obtained. Soon, how- ever, there is a painful undeceiving; the infiltrated parts become hot, swoln, red, black, dead; a urinous odour seems to exhale from the whole body, but more especially from the parts affected ; and the ordinary typhoid irritation of system becomes more and more developed—low and rapid pulse, black tongue and mouth, sunk anxious features, cold clammy skin, hiccough, muttering, delirium. The site and amount of local mischief depend on the part of the urethra which has given way. Not unfrequently, it is behind the bulb ; and the urine, restrained, at least for a time, by the deep fascia, burrows deeply. In such a case, the local signs may be obscure; the scrotum being uninvolved, and the perineal swelling and discoloration at first in-