LITHOTOMY. 1092 Mr. Listen. From his high authority, in one point only would we venture to dissent. He was opposed to much preparation of the patient • conceiving that delayed expectation of the event operates injuriously on the mind, and disposes to sinking, or at least to asthenic results. On the contrary, we think preparation quite as essential here as in the case of lithotripsy. We hold that it is necessary to subdue phlogistic ten- dency, to rectify general function, to quiet the bladder and system, and to amend the state of the urine—before the operation can be performed under auspicious circumstances ; and that such preparation ought in- variably to be completed, whether the time occupied be of weeks or days. Among other items of management, the carbonates of soda or potash, in weak solution, not only may be expected to produce the good effects on the bladder formerly mentioned; but besides, the urine, by their use become less acrid than usual, will prove less hazardous in the event of infiltration in the wound.* The patient is placed on a firm table, of convenient height; and is bound securely, hand to foot, by stout tapes. In no operation is ansethesia by chloroform more suitable or safe. It is well to clear the lower bowel, the evening before, by an enema, or by castor-oil; and the bladder shoidd be moderately full of urine. A staff is passed, of as large a size as the urethra will conveniently bear ; grooved deeply on the convexity, a Httle to the left side.-}- It will be more readily introduced before than after deligation ; and the surgeon should be satisfied, before he proceeds a step further, that it impinges on a stone. If in doubt on this point, let him withdraw the staff, and introduce a sound. It is essential that the stone be felt immediately before the operation. Deligation over, and the staff satisfactorily passed, the patient's nates are brought to project a short distance over the end of the table ; and there he is to be secured by assistants ; one placed behind, with a hand on each shoulder, ready to oppose any involuntary movement away from the operator ; and one to each limb, holding them apart, and pressing each femur firmly down into the acetabulum, so as to fix the pelvis and at the same time fully expose the perineum. To the principal assistant, the staff is intrusted; to be held very steady, in a vertical position, and hooked up against the pubes —as much space as possible being thus made between the membranous portion of the urethra and the rectum; and the same assistant keeps the scrotum elevated. The surgeon, seated in front, at such a height as to bring his hand conveniently on a level with the perineum—and with all the instruments he is likely to require spread on a towel or tray on the floor by his side, so as to be within easy reach when wanted—introduces his left forefinger into the rectum, to make sure of its being empty, and to stimiilate it to contraction. The knife—longer than the common scalpel, especially in the handle, and with the posterior two-thirds of the edge blunt—is then entered in the perineum—previously well shaved—• * An American surgeon, of great repute as a lithotomist, attributes his success not to any peculiarity in the mode of operating, but solely to his long-continued and careful preparation of the patient. t The late Mr. Key used a straight staff.—(Treatise on Section of the Prostate in Lithotomy, London, 1824.) Dr. A. Buchanan uses and recommends a rectangular staff.—(Monthly Journal, Feb. 1848, p. 554.)