1054 STRICTUKE OF THE RECTUM. portion of the instrument wliicli is intended to pass is gi'adually increased in size, until a full size can be used without difficulty. Then dilatation may be deemed complete; yet, to insure against relapse, a bougie sliould be passed occasionally for some time afterwards. Sometimes a tight callous stricture is found to resist the ordinary treatment. Then the knife's edge may be used witli advantage ; the surgeon slightly notching the contracted ring at many points, by rueans of a probe-pointed bistoury introduced on the finger; and afterwards proceeding with dilatation, in the ordinary way. Spasm of the anus may simulate organic stricture ; and many of its symptoms also attend on enlargement of the prostate. Consequently, an accurate diagnosis can never be attained without careful examination. By the frequent and forcible dejection of fluids, diarrhoea may be simu- lated ; and a very erroneous treatment, by astringents, might be enforced, were examination of the part neglected. In most cases, the stricture is within reach of the finger; and in such, there is no difficulty; the finger' exploration removing all doubt. Sometimes, however, the contraction is higher in the bowel. And then great caution is necessary in employ- ing the exploratory bougie; for a fold of mucous membrane, or the natural promontory of the sacrum, in a healthy bowel, may obstruct th point of the instrument for a time, more especially if this be rashly and unskilfully introduced. By disreputable empirics, indeed, such obstruc- tion is made use of as a means of deceiving healthy patients into a belie of the existence of stricture. Malignant stricture, or Scirrho-contracted 7'ectum, is by no mea" uncommon in the aged—and more especially in the female; supervening, usually, on some pre-existing affection of a simple kind; as piles, or simple stricture. The symptoms are such as attend ordinary contraction, with the addition of severe lancinating pains, a dense, almost cartilagi- nous induration of the textures, wMch are nodulated, villous, or ulcerated upon the surface ; while a copious, bloody, foetid, puriform discharge; greater sympathy of the urinary organs; greater difficulty and pain in defsecation; and the ordinary constitutional cachexy which attends and characterizes malignant disease, suffice to indicate the true nature of the affection. When the verge of the anus only is afi'ected, the diseased parts may be removed by the knife. But if the disease extend some way up the bowel, as it usually does, we must content ourselves with palliation; assisting defascation by enemata and laxatives; and lulling pain by opiates, appKed to both part and system. Death may take place by exhaustion. But more frequently the patient perishes under symp- toms of ileus, the malignant product having advanced so as to cause com- plete occlusion of the bowel. Under such circumstances, the only hope of postponing death is by the formation of an artificial opening in the abdomen, for feculent evacuation; a very doubtful proceeding—as will afterwards be stated. Medullary tumour sometimes forms between the bladder and rectum; causing great distress ; interfering first with the functions of the rectum, and then with those of the bladder also. In some cases, even perfora- tion, with the establishment of a communication more or less free between