THE FATTY TUMOUll. 1G5 having sent forth its lobules deeply into the intermuscular spaces. Growth is gradual and steady; more rapid than that of any other simple tumour, yet slower than that of any malignant swelling for wliich it is likely to he mistaken. The most common sites are the thighs, shouldei-s, neck, back, abdominal parietes, and labia pudenda. Sometimes the tumour is of a pedunculated character, projecting from the general surface, and attached by a narrow neck. The swelling for whicli it is most apt to be mistaken, is abscess. Tactile examination usually suffices for the experienced. Besides, there is the history of the case ; all signs of inflammatory excitement are absent, during its progress; the skin is pale and loose; there is no oedo- matous swelling around, unless the size of the tumour should interfere with lymphatic return: and this it seldom does, usually occurring on. the outside of the Hmbs. The structiu'e may imdergo change, in a variety of ways ; through long duration, the application of pressure, or other causes. The fatty matter may diminish by absorption, while the areolar tissue becomes thickened and enlarged, giving to portions of the mass a fibrous appear- ance j or earthy patches may be found on section ; and softening, or even suppuration, may take place at some points, though rarely. It is vain to attempt discussion of this tumour; nothing but harm can ensue; enlargement, adhesion, degeneration. A seton has been used; in the hope of exciting disintegration by thorough suppuration. Eut the result will prove unsatisfactory ; and besides, the procedure is fully as se- vere as the appropriate treatment—ex- tirpation. This should not be long delayed ; for although the fatty is among the most simple of tumours, and little prone to change in either structure or tendency, yet examples are not wanting of stimulation, long continued, having been followed by medullary and malig- nant degeneration. That is to say, a tumour originally fatty may, after some years' subjection to' pressure and irrita- ^ tion, change its external characters and Kg. so. mode of growth; presenting, on its ultimate removal, the usual appear- ances of medullary formation. The possibility of this is denied. But what the eyes have seen and the hands felt, the tongue cannot refuse to acknowledge. _ Besides, the lobules are apt to extend deeply, as already stated; and, without any degeneracy of stracture, an operation may thus be rendered difficult and dangerous. It is good surgery to advise and execute extir- pation by the knite, so soon as we are satisfied of the existence of such a tumour, and the patient has been convinced of the expediency of the operation. A free incision having been made through the integuments and capsule, the elastic swelling starts outwards; and no regular dissec- T'"ij(. 50. Fatty tumour, lobulafced. a. Tlie supei-acial part; at h, tlic lobidi, wiuch bunowefl dwply.