FJAr AMPUTATION. 134:8 Fig. 371. Fig. 372. The corresponding stump; intended to exhibit the comparatively its arrest. Tho subsequent treatment is conducted according to general principles; our object usually being to obtain adhesion ; yet, not unfre- quently, preferring a moderate suppuration—as when the system has been long previously subjected to copious discharge, the sudden arrest of which might seriously endanger the internal organs. In the Flap operation various operative proceedings may be adopted, which are slight or important modifications of each other. The follo^ving are tho most important varieties :—(a.) The flaps are formed by trans- fixion ; (b.) By cutting from without inwards, (c.) They consist of all the tissues of the limb; or (d.) of skin and areolar tissue alone, (e.) There may be one flap ; (/.) or two flaps, (g.) The flap or flaps may be either rounded or rectilinear in outline. Suppose that the thigh is to be amputated by double flaps—the same preliminaries having been arranged as for the circular operation, the surgeon grasps the flesh in front of the limb with his left hand, so as to raise it from the bone, the assistant at the same time pressing upwards the muscles and other soft parts from behind with the palm of the hand held horizontal; thereby the making of a full broad anterior flap being secured. As the knife's point is about to enter, pressure is apphed to the femoral. Transfixion is made, by pushing the knife down to the centre of the bone, horizontally; gently passing the point over this to, the front; and then pushing across, so as to make the place of exit as nearly as possible opposite to that of entrance. Moving the knife downwards and outwards, with a gentle sawing motion in long sweeps—cutting chiefly from heel to point—a sufficient flap is formed anteriorly ; and this is raised by the assistant. The knife's point is then re-entered, about an inch beneath the site of the former transfixion, Fig. 371. The flap-operation illustrated in the thigh. The sloping wounds, whence the flaps have heen taken, shewn in the amputated part. small extent of wound that remains ; in contradistinction to Fig. 370.