315 MOLLITIES OSSIUM. often a malignant tumour forms at tlie site of injury, instead of the normal callus? But that result is by no meims invariable; and there- fore, oven in these unpromising cases, cm* treatment should still be the same. MOLLITIES OSSIUM, OSTEOMALAKIA, OR MALACOSTEON. Both this disease and rickets are characterized by a deficiency, actual and relative, of phosphate of lime. In mollities ossium, the skeleton, ori"ina lly of normal structure, parts with its earthy matter; becoming soft and pliable in consequence ; while in rickets the osseous structure is abnormally developed from the first. In rickets, also, irregular develop- ment of the bone and its consecxuent distortion are slow and gradual; while in moUities ossium the softening of the completely ossified bone is rapid, and distortion may be both speedy and great. Further, in rickets, after a time, the abnormal condition is departed from; ossifica- tion becomes complete ; the skeleton grows solid and unyielding ; and the general health may be in a great measure restored. In mollities ossium, the untoward condition is usually steadfast, without amendment in the state of either health or skeleton; and the disease, sooner or later, almost always proves fatal. It occurs more frequently in females than in males ; happily, however, it is a rare afi'ection in both. Eickets, on the contrary, seems to have no predilection for sex; and is extremely common. In mollities ossium, a copious phosphatic deposit is found in the urine, along with a peculiar albuminous substance. The general health is much and hopelessly impaired; flesh, spirits, and strength diminishing daily. The bones are light, soft, and greasy, with much enlarged cancelli; the osseous having been converted into medullary tissue. This excessive formation of medullary spaces gradually advances from the interior towards the surface, so that the bone may come to consist of a thin paper-like external shell, filled with soft matter; partly lardaceous, partly oily. When dry, the bones present a dark mahogany colour; when recent, the section has a dark brown, pink, deep crimson, yellow, or orange colour; due to the tint of the oleaginous particles of the softened and almost diffluent medullary tissue. When examined by the microscope, there is no excess, but rather an absence of blood-vessels; and the fatty matters consist of free oil, margarine, and empty collapsed fat cells. Sometimes much paia attends; in other cases, the unfortunates sufi"er little or no inconvenience. In one remarkable instance, related by Mr. Howship, a sense of tightness and much pain were complained of, at one parti- cular spot; and there, on dissection after death, marked constriction and depression of the softened bone were found. The disease may affect the whole skeleton; or may be limited to several bones, or to one. The pelvis may suffer alone ; and is distorted pecuharly. The heads of the high bones, pressing against the acetabula, squeeze the sides of the pelvis inwards and upwards ; while the sacrum is projected downwards. In rickets, on the contrary, the front wall of the pelvis is generally flattened, and the bones are of unnatural proportion and size as well as shape—both stunted and deformed. In mollities