48 VENESECTION. means of doing so, is by active antiphlogistic measures to mitigate the inflammatory process which is setting in. But, in effecting this object, blood must be taken sparingly, if at all, and with much caution; seeing that a certain amount of sloughing and suppm-ation is inevitable, neces- sarily accompanied with depression and exhaustion of the vital power, which we should desire to save for the reparative process which we expect to follow. That must be provided for. It may be veiy easy, by heroic expenditure of blood, to attain the object immediately in view ; but it may be very difficult to prevent the rash blow which would limit the impending inflammatory attack from at the same time annihi- lating the patient's chance of ultimate recovery. General blood-letting may be effected from an artery—Arteriotomy ; or from a vein, Venesection, or Phlebotomy. When Arteriotomy is per- formed, a superficial anterior branch of the temporal artery is generally selected. Blood can be thus taken, both in large quantity and with much rapidity, so as to secure the desired sedative effect; but it is an operation which demands more dexterity in performance than venesection, and is besides not unlikely to be followed by troublesome consecjuences, as will afterwards be explained. A subcutaneous vein, on the contrary, is superficial and easily reached. Blood can be drawn both rapidly and in quantity, if need be, by means of a large orifice ; arrest of the flow is more easily effected than in wound of an artery ; and the incision is more likely to unite, simply, by adhesion. Hence, venesection is usually pre- ferred. And the points of selection are :—one of the veins at the bend of the arm, for general purposes; and the external jugular vein, in the lower part of the neck, in certain cases. In many patients, especially females affected with obesity, it is not always an easy matter to reach a vein in the ordinary sites ; but when foiled there, it does not inevitably follow that arteriotomy is the only other resource. For, if venesection be rendered preferable by circumstances, a sufficient vein—the cephaHc —may always be found by an incision placed in the interspace between the deltoid muscle and the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major. "Within the last thirty years a complete revolution may be said to have taken place in regard to antiphlogistic blood-letting. Then it was of frequent occurrence, even on slight cause; now it is rare, under any circumstances. And towards this result, two things have greatly tended. 1. Inflammatory disease has become more asthenic in its character; bearing active treatment badly, and better cured by gentler means. 2. The science of therapeutics, as well as that of pathology, has made advances; and in consequence the morbid change, or succession of changes, is more accurately recognised, Avhile medicinal appliances—by mercury, aconite, antimony, etc., are more skilfully and successfully admi- nistered. We know the diseased condition more accurately than we did; and are better skilled to cure it, without any sacrifice of blood. Hcemostasis, or temporary arrest of a portion of the blood apart from the general circulation, has been proposed as an occasional, or perhaps even frequent substitute for blood-letting; or, at all events, as a useful auxiliary.* The blood of a limb, or limbs, may be readily retained therein for some time, by deligation sufficient to arrest the venous return. * Maryland Medical and Surgical Journal, Marcli 1843.