273 TREATMENT OF PERIOSTITIS. morbus coxarius ; and is apt to be inistakon for it. Unless actively ami early treated, suppiirative involvement of the bone may hardly be avoided. Periostitis over the trochanter major also simulates hip-joint dis- ease. And in this case, too, the bone is liable to suHer secondarily; the affection ending in troublesome suppuration and necrosis.* Examples ai-e not wanting of the whole skeleton having been in- volved in periostitis. Such cases, whether chronic or acute, are obviously of a most formidable character, and can hardly be expected to have other than a fatal termination. But, usually, the disease is limited to one chain of bones, to one bone, or to a portion of one bone. The parts of the skeleton most liable to be affected are those most prone to ex- ternal injury, whether by mechanical violence or atmospheric exposure ; the shin of the tibia, the ulna, the clavicle, the sternum, and the bones of the cranium, especially the frontal. In all aggravated cases, either mercury or syphihs is usually much to blame ; and the worst cases are those which occur in scrofulous patients, who have suffered from both the venereal disease and its supposed specific. The triumvirate of mer- cury, syphilis, and scrofula, is sadly inimical to health ; many and serious diseases are liable to be induced ; and of these, aggravated peri- ostitis is one. Treatment.—It is customary to state that function, healthy and mor- bid, proceeds with comparative slowness in bone and its investing membrane; but such is dangerous doctrine, and may lead to inert and injmious practice. It is surely no tardiness of progress which in a few days, from simple inflammatory affection of the periosteum, brings abscess, ulcer, and necrosis—one, or other, or all. In truth, no disease calls more loudly for active and energetic treatment than acute periostitis ; for by such treatment alone can disaster be avoided. If seen at the very outset of an acute and sthenic attack, especially if of traumatic origin, leeches may be freely applied with marked advantage ; and in the robust, young, and previously healthy, general bleeding may perhaps also be prac- tised. Our object is to make a full and decided impression on both part and system ; so as to arrest the disease while there is yet time to save structure. Wliere, however, the redness, tension, and pain are aggra- vated, and the degree of constitutional irritation is great, the sooner a free incision down to the bone is made the better, without premising any other local application. In any case, the part is kept raised, relaxed, and absolutely at rest; wliile hot fomentations are diligently apphed. Other antiphlogistics are not forgotten; starvation, aconite, purgatives—perhaps calomel and opium instead. And the morbid pro- cess having been thus subdued, its results usually disappear; gradually yet satisfactorily. If not, discussion is to be expedited by counter- irritation, and the internal administration of the iodide of potassium. Sometimes the inflammatory process has been partially arrested by the use of leeches, or ha.s been sub-acute from the commencement. Here direct mcision is not required. But where periosteal tension exists, by msertmg a fine bistoury, or tenotomy needle, at a little distance from the tense part; passing it over, cautiously, beneath the integument; then * Stanley on Diseases of Bone, p. 349. T