HYDROPHOBIA. 495 ither excision or cauterization of the bitten parts—as sometimes happens ) a finger, or even to a whole hand—amputation should certainly ho per- )rmed (Delpech). Along with such local treatment, it is important that the general ealth be attended to ; and more especially, that every moans be taken ) maintain a state of mind free from anxious forebodings as to the >sult. As formerly observed, should an opportunity occur of shewing le animal alive and well, that precaution should never be neglected; jmmunicatiug at the same time the encouraging fact, that among those ■ho have actually been bitten by a rabid animal the occurrence of rabies ; not the rule but the exception. It has been said that the bitten person generally loses no time in pplying for surgical aid. But it sometimes happens that days have lapsed ere the surgeon is consulted. And then arises a question, as to ^hetlier excision, at that period, is likely to afford a favourable chance f exemption ; or whether the virus must have been already absorbed, ad diffused throughout the system. This question can only be answered y experience; and experience has declared in favour of operation even b a late period. The apparent success of such tardy operations may erhaps be explained by the fact already alluded to, that all those bitten y animals truly rabid do not fall victims to the disease; but another xplanation also offers itself; namely, that local zymosis may not have een completed, and that, consequently, such excision may be in time p prevent systemic diffusion. Dr. ]\Iarochetti (of Moscow) maintained that characteristic pustules )rm beneath the tongue, near the orifices of the submaxillary glands, etween the third and ninth day from the infliction of the bite. This as also been observed by M. Magistel of Saintes; who, however, does ot corroborate Marochetti's experience, that if these pustules be punc- u-ed and timeously cauterized with a hot needle, the disease is aborted ; Tge doses of butchers' broom (genista tinctoria) being at the same time ven internally. Most others, however, have not been able to detect lese pustules. And yet it may be well to look for them If found, ley should certainly be cauterized. Of the curative treatment, little can be said that is at all satisfactory, few examples of recovery are on record; but they are only exceptions ' the general rule. And, towards these recoveries, there is no striking :oof that the treatment was especially conducive. There is scarcely ly. remedy which has not been tried; of the more important only is it jcessary to speak, and that shortly. Eleedmg and other active anti- ilogistics have failed, after abimdant trial. Bleeding is warrantable only L the robust, and at the very commencement of the disease ; chiefly ith the view of facilitating the operation of that class of remedies in nich our trust wiU most naturally be placed—the calmatives of the Jrvous system. A sedative, such as opium, Indian hemp, belladonna, roscyamus, may be given in large doses, and as often repeated as rcumstances indicate and will permit. The solid form, of pill or bolus, ay be swallowed, when fluids cannot; and when deglutition in any way tound impossible, the skin, rectum, veins, and subcutaneous areolar »«e yet remain, whereby administration may be effected; but expe-