HYDROCELE. 1232 supposed, has followed injuries of the head Occafsionally, examples of the alfection occur while no exciting cause can be assigned. Obviously, but little is in our power in the way of treatment • except by removal of the cause, when that is practicable. In the case of cirsocole, for example, if wo succeed in cui-ing this, Avasting of the testicle may bo expected to cease, liestoration of the normal bulk, however, is scarcely probable. Atropliy of one testicle is fortunately a matter of no consequence, as it does not influence the virility of the individual in the slightest degree. Hydrocele. The term denotes chronic accumulation of serum, in connection with the genital organs ; and this may occur in more than one site ; in the tunica vaginalis, in the cord, or in the sac of a hernia. I. Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis Testis.—There is no more common disease. It may follow on injury, and a minor amount of orchitis ; sometimes it is attributed by the patient to a strain ; very frequently there is no assignable cause. Swelling takes place sloAvly, and with little or no uneasiness ; ascending from the lower part of the scrotum upwards. The tumour may ultimately attain to a large size, encroaching closely on the groin. It is of a pyriform shape, except when much distended; and then the narroAvness of the upper part is undone by expansion there. It is translucent, unless the coverings be preter- naturally thickened. Fluctuation can be felt, unless distension is great. The testicle usually occupies the back of the cavity, near the middle—nearer the lower than the upper part; and seldom can be felt distinctly. On grasping the tumour firmly at that part, however, a hard substance may be felt; and the patient experiences the pecuhar sensation which compression of the testicle is calculated to produce. However translucent the rest of the swelling, at that part it is opaque. Sometimes the testicle is situate in front; and then can be felt dis- tinctly. It is never found at the lower part of the scrotum, and sepa- rate from the general swelling, as in hernia. The finger and thumb can always be carried above the tumour, at its neck ; and the spermatic cord can be felt free. The tumour has no impulse afi'orded to it, on coughing, or during any other exertion of the abdominal muscles; unless there be a communication between the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, and that of the abdominal peritoneum—as in the case of congenital hernia. The accumulation generally consists of a straw- coloured serum; and sometimes loose solid bodies are found, as in serous cysts elsewhere. The tunica vaginalis is, in general, merely distended; sometimes it is thickened; sometimes it is intersected, so as to constitute minor cysts. In simple hydrocele, the testicle and epi- didymis are structurally sound. Not uufrequently, however, they are the subject of chronic enlargement; and then the disease is technically termed //ijdro-sarcocele. The treatment of hydrocele is either palliative or radical. The for- mer consists in simply withdrawing the fluid, by tapping ; the swelling and uneasiness are removed for a time ; but they return, and sometimes