704 ARTIFICIAL PUPIL. In operating through the cornea, Beer passed a lancet-shaped knif through its thickness; then, carrying its point onwards tlirougli tin anterior chamber, he penetrated the tense iris, near tlie centi'e of tin cornea; and on the withdrawal of the knife, a horizontal or perpendiculai oval slit was found to be produced by the contraction of the radiathi- fibres of the iris. Tlie metliod practised by Janin, and perfected ]y Maunoir, may be employed without injury to a sound lens, and does no require either the same force, or the same healthy state of the iris, to effeci the formation of an aperture, as does the operation through the sclerotic. An opening is made in the cornea by a cataract knife, involving ahou' a third of its circumference; into this aperture a pair of fine aiign larly curved scissors is introduced, the pointed or short blade of whicl, is thrust through the iris, while the blunt and long one is carrie.i between that membrane and the cornea. The scissors are pushed on, till their farther progress is arrested by the junction of the cornea wit!, the sclerotic, when their blades are brought together, and the iris i divided as in the former instance. Or, another incision may be made with them, diverging from the first, and including a triangular portio the apex of which is near the centre of tlie iris. The flap so formed wi shrivel up in the direction of its base, and leave a sufficient opening fi the admission of light (Eig. 257, 3 and 4). Instead of the large ape and the clumsy scissors formerly in use, the needle-pointed canula scisso invented by Wylde, may, with great advantage, be substituted. Whei there is a synecliia anterior with leucoma, involving the pupil by diH placing it, the adhesion may be advantageously cut through either wit. a narrow Beer's knife, or by means of a broad cutting needle knife, o, even by the canula scissors, as may seem best suited to the state of th parts. The pupil then becomes restored to its normal site, and so th- patient sees past the opacity of the cornea. Corectomia, or excision, is performed through the cornea, in where the central portion of that tunic is opaque. When the pupil » non-adherent, and the lens and cajmde transparent, a broad flat needl with cutting edges as far as the shoulder, or the point of a cataract knif<' is passed into the anterior chamber at the lower or outer side of th cornea. If the iris prolapse, which is not uncommon, it is laid hold c Fig. 258. Extensive op.acity of tlie cornea. A portion left clear, suitable for a. artificial opening in the iris, by corectomia. Fig 259. Tyrrell's blunt iris hook.