Fig. 256. acute, there is always considerable! iiiiTia. symptoms common to all cases of iritis; certain modifications ^vhicll are observed in different forms of the disease. Tlie traumatic, the rheiir- matic and gotity, the syphilitic, and the so-called scrofulous—presenting the modifications of more or less symptomatic intensity, and thus requir- ing the further designation of acute and chrunic to characterize them— are all that need require remark. The general characteristics of inflamma- tory affections of the iris, whatever their cause, or whatever the state of constitution, are—1. The presence of a well-marked sclerotic vascular zone, with a marginal interspace void of vascular engorgement around the coi-iiea. 2. Change of colour of the iris, and muddiness of the aqueous humour. 3. Diminished mohility of the iris, with more or less change in the pupil- lary outline. 4. Loss of fibrous marking of its texture, with more or less increased vascularity, thickening, and inflammatory product. 5. Intoler- auce of light, and increased lachrymal secretion. 6. Pain in the globe, orbit^ and circum-orbital region. 7. Impairment of vision. "Were the inflam- matory affection of the iris to implicate no other texture than its own, the disease would be of comparatively trifling moment; the risk, however, all cases is great that the pupil becomes more or less involved. It may bei occupied completely with lymph, constituting closure of the pupil, or com- plete atresia iridis. Its margin may become adherent to the capsule of the lens, constituting synechia posterior; or when, from thickening and product, it has come in contact with the interior of the cornea, synech anterior may then form. But this is not all. Where recovery h taken place, and we examine the interior of such an eye by means o the ophthalmoscope, permanent changes in the retina and choroid m cate that they too have suffered ; and that what we see occupying th visible iris must be regarded, only too frequently, as an indication of sim; but more seriously important changes going on in the deeper-seated struc- tures of the eyebaU. These changes in the fundus of the eye serve to explain the variable degrees of diminution of vision which are observed in cases of iritis, frequently altogether dispropor- tioned to any change of structure to be? seen in the iris or pupiL When the; -"^^ inflammatory affection of the iiis is: constitutional sympthetic derangement; when chronic, the disease isj always very insidious, and may advance to complete destruction of the! function of the globe, with but little local uneasiuess and no constitu-l tional irritation. Traumatic Iritis.—We have already said that mere wounds of the irisi are little if at all resented when its textures are healthy. Even separa-i tion of it from its ciliary attachment by blows may be followed by veryi slight indications of mischief. In such instances the irritation which folloAvs, if not aggravated by carelessness, exposure, over-feeding, or tb' use of stimulants, seems almost a healthy process. It is very dilTereni Fig. 2.f)6. Iritis ; slicAving the clmraotoristic vfuscultuity of the globe, (lie ins doggw with lymph, the pupil coutiaeted and irregular. ]