1121 PUNCTUEE OP THE BLADDEE. Hysterical women very often labour under retention of urine, simply because they refuse the effort of volition necessary for expulsion of the bladder's contents. Use the catheter, and repetition of the retention speedily occurs, the cause remaining the same. But refuse the catheter, and allow distension to proceed, until the stimulus thereby occasioned becomes such as to compel tlie detrusor to its function; and then, by an effect partly moral and partly physical, the patient will find herself permanently relieved. There are obstinate cases, however, which resist this mode of cure; and, in them, care must be taken not to endanger the bladder, by an excessive withholding of the instrument. Puncture of tlie Bladder. This operation becomes necessary, when urgent retention of urine exists, and when by the catheter we have failed to afford relief. It may be performed in a variety of ways; by the perineum, by the rectum, or above the pubes. 1. By the Perineum.—This is suitable to all cases of obstinate retention caused by im- passable stricture, or other obstruction of the urethra; the bladder is safely relieved, and the cause is at the same time effectually dealt with. The patient is placed in the position of litho- tomy; a catheter of medium size is passed down to the constricted part, and its point is cut upon by direct incision, in the central raphe ; behind the end of the instrument, we expect to find a bulging dilatation of the uretlira on the vesical aspect of the stricture; this is pierced by the knife ; and urine rushes out, affording complete relief to the bladder. Then the knife is carried forwards, so as to divide the constricted part of the urethra, as accurately and thoroughly as possible. That having been laid open, the catheter is passed on and retained; and thus a most effectual step is taken towards permanent removal of the stricture. The opera- tion is avowedly difficult—the dilated portion behind being not always easily found, and it re- quiring great care to make sure that the incisions at the constricted part lay open the canal of the ure- thra ; but when rightly performed, it is thoroughly sound in both its principle and results. If the probe - pointed small-sized stricture staff can be passed through the constricted portion of the canal, the division of the stricture and opening of the urethra behind the site of the constriction will be greatly facilitated, and rendered infinitely more safe. Where the instrument however cannot be satisfactorily passed through the stricture, an incision upon its groove, anterior to the seat of obstruc- Fig. 335. Trocar for puncture of the bladder by the rectum. 4c Fig. 335.