CHAPTER IX. HEMOERHAGE. Inflammatory Hemorrhage and Extravasation. "When the inflammatory process has approached its crisis, we have seen that the vascular coats are apt to give way; permitting the con- tained "blood—liquor sanguinis and red corpuscles, in mass—to escape more or less copiously. If this occur on a free surface, the accident is termed Hemorrhage; if the interior of a part, Extravasation. The former most frequently takes place in inflaming mucous membrane, the blood escaping by the mucous outlet; and is not to be rashly checked, inasmuch as it generally tends towards a beneficial result. The impli- cated vessels are not only relieved of part—it may be the greater part— of their burden ; but besides, a general resolutive effect may be obtained, as if the flow were an artificial one from a vein at the bend of the arm. In such practitioner, suddenly called, must take care not to sup- pose that to be of itself a disease, requiring immediate arrest, which is actually a means of cure directed against advancing disease—an occurrence requiring to be watched, perhaps favoured, but only to be arrested when threatening to prove excessive. When, however, such hemorrhage takes place into an internal space, it cannot be too soon stopped ; and we would rather prevent it altogether, if possible; seeing that its presence, bulk, and pressure, may excite disease of a still higher grade, or seriously interfere with the function of neighbouring parts. In the chambers of the eye, for instance, extravasa- tion may hurry on the inflammatory process to ultimate disorganisation of the eyeball; in the pericardium, the heart's action may be fatally overborne; in the membranes of the brain, coma by compression may ensue. Extravasation is seldom but injurious, and therefore at all times to be avoided. Occurring in an internal organ, it occasions serious conse- quences, by arrest or impairment of function not only in that part itself, but also, perhaps, in qthers adjoining, by pressure made on them. Oc- curring anywhere, it is unfavourable, as indicating a high grade of the inflammatory process ; one which is breaking up texture, and paving the way for suppuration. Traumatic Hemorrhage may proceed from wound of an artery, or of a vein, or of both; or it may be capillary—sometimes, under peculiar circumstances, the most for- midable of all We shi.ll first consider Arterial bleeding. p