TREATMENT OF TRAUMATIC ANEURISM. 42G mado coiisidcnibly Ugliler tliero, tliau on tl& rest of tlie liinb. Energetic pressure, us well as aceuriite, is requii'ed, and the previous bandaging permits us to oxcrt that Avith impunity: wliei-eas, without uniform sup- port of tlu! whole limb, even moderate compression could not be borne safely for any length of time. Gangrene has ensued from the omission. The dressing is retained, in a state of firmness and efficiency, i'or several days ; when it may be re-applied somewhat more slackly. But it should not be altogether discontinued for two or three weeks. Our object is to shut the arterial canal entirely, at the wounded part; both temporarily and permanently; first Ijy mechanical apposition, afterwai-ds by plastic change. And thus all aneurismal formation is manifestly frustrated. Pressure being accurate and effective from the first, there is no infiltra- tion or accumulation of blood in the areolar tissue, and no condensation of that into a containing cyst. No evil consequences are likely to follow such obliteration of the vessel at the injured part; and consequently it is a needless refinement in surgery, to attempt closure of the arterial wound only, by a more deli- cately conducted pressure. During such an attempt, it is more than likely that blood will escape from the puncture, and the aneurismal tumour will become duly established. Should pressure fail, or should no opportunity have offered for its employment, the tumour certainly forms and demands a cure. This may be attempted, in the first instance, by flexing the forearm, so as to com- press the tumour somewhat, and diminish the arterial supply; the latter indication being further jDromoted by pressure on the trunk of the humeral above, as in idiopathic aneurism. Should this faU, recourse is. had to ligature at the injured part. A tourniquet, or the fingers of an assistant, having been applied to the humeral, to restram hemorrliage temporarily, a free incision is made throughout the whole extent of the cyst; avoiding the superimposed vein. The coagulum is turned out, and the apertui'e of communication in the arterial coats looked for; if obscured, a slackening of pressure above gives a jet of blood, which Avill readily disclose the site. By means of the knife's point the artery is carefully detached from the surrounding parts—the venous tissue being especially avoided ; and a ligature is passed, accurately, above and below the punctured point. A full-sized probe introduced into the aperture renders the arterial tube more distinct, and facihtates its isolation by dissection. If the cyst be large, dense, and compact, it may be dissected away, either in whole or in part; the wound being then more £ivoui*ably disposed for healing, without much suppuration. Then pressure is removed. The wound is approximated ; one end of each ligature pro- truding. And the treatment is conducted with a view to adliesion, A variety of false aneurism sometimes occurs, termed Varicose Aneur- ism. The punctured aperture remains pervious in both vein and artery; the vein having been transfixed, and its superficial Avound alone closing along with the intcgumental incision. The aneurismal cyst forms in the usual manner, but with, a double communication; deeply, oji the pes-, terior aspect, with the artery; superficially, Avith the vein. In conse- quence, there is a mal-adjustnicnt of the circulatioji at this part; arterial blood making good an entrance into the vein, whereby distention of the