SPINA BIFIDA. 959 may be mistaken for a subcutaneous affection. Again, an abscess, forming in connection witli disease of the vertebrte, may first point in the lumbar ref^ion, then above Poupart's hgament, then beneath it; sometimes it makes even further progress, passing to the back of the thigh, and bulging in the ham; and in one case I have known it to extend as far as the inner side of the tendo AchilHs, the patient dying of exhaustion before evacuation occuiTed. Sometimes the matter bursts internally, into the bronchi, into the plem'al cavity, or into the large intestines; these results are, hoAvever, quite exceptional. Pointing in the situation of the external abdominal ring, or to the inner side of the femoral vessels, the tumour thus formed may simulate a reducible hernia; but is readily distinguished by its spontaneous retrogression on the patient assuming tlie recumbent posture, and by its spontaneous and gradual reproduction whenever the patient rises, even although pressure by the fingers be maintained over the opening of exit. Treatment depends on the nature of the case. If there be no prospect of ultimate cure, and the abscess causes neither pain, nor serious inconvenience, no opening should be made ; the ordinary palliatives are to be administered, and every care is to be taken to keep the integuments entire. If the case present a favour- able aspect, on the contrary—the presence of disease in the spine being doubtful, or apparently limited to the immediate neighbourhood of the abscess, while the system is little if at all affected—a free evacuation should be made by incision. Ey the inflammatory irritation following on such opening, if the abscess be an uncomplicated one, we may obtain such spontaneous change in the state of the sac, as will secure its heal- ing. In some cases, portions of dead and loose bone are evacuated; after which, cicatrization of the sac ensues. Sometimes subcutaneous puncture with a trocar and canula, and partial evacuation of the contents of the sac, as in ordinary chronic abscess, may be adventured upon, to stay the progress of the collection. This must, however, be employed with judgment; as putrefactive change and grave constitutional disturbance not unfrequently follow its employ- ment, requiring free evacuation of the collection, and resulting too fre- quently in death of the patient. When the abscess opens spontane- ously, the aperture is often small and valvular, the drain thus established continues, no bad results follow, and by continued care, with the use of cod-liver oil and tonics, and the employment of the prone couch, some- times wonderful recoveries take place ; even after long persistence of the discharge. Spina Bifida, or Hydrorachitis. This is a congenital malformation, usually situated in the lumbar region ; but it may be in the dorsal, sacral, or even cervical The pos- terior laminse and spinous process of one or more vertebra are deficient j in consequence of undue congenital distension of the membranes of the cord with the cerebro-spinal fluid. A tumour of greater or less size is thus formed, composed of the ordinary integuments, which may present a nearly normal aspect, or consist of little else than the spinal membranes, havmg an opaline or bluish translucency. In other respects, the child may be fully and well formed. More frequently, it is otherwise defec-