1241 IMPOTENCE. circularly incised, so as to prevent all risk of retraction of tlie vessels of the cord when this is cut across. The assistant then seizes it, not to prevent retraction but to arrest bleeding ; and the cord, so held, is di- vided ; the apex of the tumour is then everted, and dissection rapidly proceeded %vith—thus rendered comparatively painless and bloodless. Care is taken not to wound the septum, and thus to expose the sound testicle. The arteries of the cord are secured by ligature. And, should they have slipped from the fingers of the assistant, a very slight upward enlargement of the superficial wound is all that can ever be required. The scrotal vessels are tied with especial care ; expe- rience warning us that, otherwise, troublesome after-bleeding is almost certain to occur. The wound is brought together, and treated in the ordinary way. The lower part seldom heals but by granulation ; and, therefore, need not be closely approximated. The cord requires to be carefully watched ; difiiise suppuration being apt to occur there ; and should this threaten, early incision must be had recourse to.* But, by suitable antiphlogistic precautions, all necessity for resumed use of the knife may generally be avoided. It is important to remember that, like hydrocele, sarcocele may co- exist with hernia; and that the latter may be temporarily restrained by the bulk of the tumour of the testicle. On removal of this, how- ever, the hernia, descending during the cries or straining of the patient, may appear at the wound. Impotence. This may depend on imperfect development of the testis ; but not on imperfect descent. The organs are as efficient, functionally, in the abdomen as in the scrotum. Ablation and atrophy of both organs cause impotence ; but either testicle may be lost with comparative impunity. The oxalic diathesis, and diabetes, diminish the sexual appetite and power; and so does the phosphatic diathesis, to a less degree. The pressure of hydrocele may cause impotence, even without atrophy of the testicle. Temporary impotence may be caused by induration of the epididymis on both sides, resulting from gonorrhceal epididymitis. When a scrofulous testis exists upon each side, a more permanent im- potence—also due to obstruction of the vas deferens—usually talces place. Affections of the brain are sometimes followed by it. In the newly married, a temporary loss of power is sometimes caused by mere pre- dominance of mental emotion. But excessive venery, inducing an irri- table state of the whole genital system, is perhaps the most frequent cause. And effete roues thus " read their sin in their punishment." Cure can be expected only in those cases which are unconnected with structural change in the testicles. The cause having been removed, certain medicines are supposed to have a tendency to restore this animal function, and are hence termed Aphrodisiacs. Of these, the most im- portant are, Indian hemp, conium, and phosphorus; the two former * To avoid the risk of such inflammatory results being excited by unnecessary pressure of the assistant who gi-asjis the cord, it is often well to tie the artery at the moment of the cord's division ; so superseding the necessity of pressure there alto- gether.