838 AFFECTIONS OF THE EUSTACHIAN TUBE. Where sucli enlargements of tlie tonsils exist, tlieir removal should constitute the first step in our treatment; as thereby applications to the relaxed or thiclconecl condition of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, and posterior nares, will be more satisfactorily effected than they could be while the enlarged tonsiLs occupied the fauces. The relaxed membrane shoidd be treated by local medication with a solution of nitrate of silver, appUed by means of a bit of sponge fixed on a curved stem of whalebone, or by a large hair pencil, or injected through the nostril by means of a short catheter attached to a vulcanite syringe. Suitable constitutional treatment should be at the same time adopted. The occasional forced inflation of the cavity of the tympanum will afford, in most of these cases, a temporary, complete, or partial relief, sufliciently indicating the limited nature of the maintaioing cause. When no such mere faucial cause of obstruction is found to account for the symptoms, when no polypus, tumour, or cicatrix is to be felt with the finger carried up behind the soft palate, and rhinoscopy reveals no- thing to the inquirer, the Eustachian catheter may be employed with the view of determining the presence and nature of the cause of obstruc- tion. Tlie Eustachian Catheter has been used either as a means of diag- nosis or of treatment. This instrument is of various si^es, varying from a No. 3 of the ordinary catheter scale, up to a l^o. 8 or 9. It should be six inches in length, with a short curvature at its distal extre- mity ; and the orifice should be terminal, not lateral The patient, in whom it is to be passed, should occupy the sitting posture. The instru- ment having been oiled, the surgeon passes the beak of the catheter along the floor of the nostril, till it reaches the level of the soft palate; he then rotates the point gently outwards and upwards, when it will be felt to sink into the trumpet-shaped opening, and to be immovable when a backward or forward motion is attempted. Some surgeons in passing it carry the instrument on till it touches the back wall of the pharynx, then rotate its point outwards and upwards, and as it is withdrawn it 13asses into the canal. To ensure the position of the catheter ui the Eustachian tube, the negative symptoms of absence of para or uneasiness, or the non-interference with speech and deglutition, may suffice; but the finger passed upwards behind the soft palate, or the use of the rhino- scope, will serve still further to make the certainty absolute. To intr ^- duce air through the catheter into the tympanum, an air-press uas formerly employed; but at the present day, the mouth and lungs of the sm'geon are used more safely for this purpose, either immediately applied to the end of the catheter, or mediately by means of an elastic tube fitted to the catheter, and with a mouthpiece. The otoscope—a similar elastie tube, fitted with two terminal nozzles for introduction into the correspoiul- ing ears of patient and surgeon—having been applied, the surgeon hlo\\ ? into the Eustachian tube through the catheter. Should all be normal, the air enters the tympanum, and distends the membrane with a " //<w<^- When obstruction is complete no air enters, and no sound is produced. When the canal is partially obstructed, and the middle ear is occupied with fluid, the gurgling or bubbling is quite pathognomonic; and othei rales, already mentioned in the preceding pages, occur to indicate tli<