LITHOTOMY. 1095 with a stone of ordinary character, forceps are introduced, for seizure and extraction. These should be, in length of handle and capacity of blades, proportioned to the size of the stone ; the object being, that the blades shall embrace the calculus at as many points as possible, and that the handles shall be long enough to give a full power in extraction. The blades are partly lined with calico, so as to diminish the chance of the stone slipping from their grasp. An instrument, suited to the stone, having been selected, is passed over the finger to the deep wound ; and, as the finger recedes from this, the forceps enter and come in contact with the stone. If this is not at once felt, the handles should be elevated, so as to depress the blades to the part of the bladder where the stone is most likely to be. The blades are opened, and, by a catching movement of the instrument, seizure is effected. If any suspi- cion exist that a portion of the bladder may have been included along with the stone, the instrument is turned round and round so as to test this; freedom of movement implying freedom of the bladder. Seizure having been accomplished, the axis of the forceps is changed; the point is raised, and the handles are depressed. The forefinger is then re-intro- duced by the side of the instrument, and between the blades, to ascertain in what direction the stone is placed, and to rectify the position if necessary. Por example, if an oval uric calculus have been seized in the transverse direction, it will not pass through the deep wound without much violence, if at all. The jaws of the instrument are slightly relaxed; and with the forefinger's point the stone is gradually and care- fully shifted, until the long diameter presents to the wound. Then the extracting force is applied; pressing the handles to each other as much as is necessary to prevent slipping of the stone, and not so much as to endanger its being broken; directing the handles, and consequently the extracting force, according to the axis of the pelvis—obliquely down- wards—not jamming the blades beneath the arch of the pubes; and moving the forceps antero-posteriorly, so as to gain room by further dilatation. By pressure of the finger, the bladder is prevented from descending along with the stone ; or, in other words, counter-extension is made to the extension of the forceps ; fixing the bladder, and allowing extraction to be made more effectually than it otherwise would be. After having passed the prostatic wound, resistance may be off'ered by fibres of the levator of the anus—insufiiciently divided by the incisions; this obstacle may be overcome by the finger also ; or it may be necessary to notch the resisting fibres by the edge of a probe-pointed bistoury. In the case of a number of small stones, the metallic scoop will be found generally preferable to forceps. The instrument is first used as a sound, passed through the wound; the stone, having been found, is moved towards the opening in the bladder; and then—if not before— being brought in contact with the point of the forefinger, is withdrawn —steadied on the scoop by the finger's pressure. Sometimes the stone is lodged above the pubes, and refuses to descend. In such a case, curved forceps are of use; but the difficulty is of rare occurrence. Bent forceps may also be useful, when, in an old man, the stone is lodged in a deep pouch of the bladder, behind a pro- state very much enlarged.