VARIETIES OF CALCULI. 1073 as for tlie preceding; with this addition, that ammonia is evolved during solution in potass. III. The Oxalate of Lime, or Malberry Calculus; not unlike a mul- berry in size, form, and colour, rarely larger than a walnut; by no means iinfrequent, especially in young people ; always of slow formation. The colour is dark brown; density and weight are comparatively great; the surface is almost always rudely tuberculated, or covered with promi- nent excrescences ; the textiu'e is imperfectly laminated; and the stone is always single. The tests are—solution in nitric acid, when reduced to a powder and heated ; the blow-pipe, consuming the acid with efflor- escence, leaves quick-lime in powder, which, if moistened, gives to turmeric paper a red stain. Small calculi of oxalate of lime, in size, form, and general appear- ance, very like hemp-seeds, sometimes form in the kidney. Descending, they may be extruded with the urine; but if one remain in the bladder, it becomes variously coated, according to the diathesis that prevails. If the oxalic diathesis continue, the hemp-seed sooner or later passes into the mulberry formation. IV. Phosjyhate of Lime Calculus.—Calculi seldom consist of this salt alone. When they do, the surface is smooth like that of porcelain; the colour is a pale brown; the texture is regularly but loosely lami- nated ; the form is spheroidal. The stone is friable, and usually of small size. The tests are—solubility in nitric and muriatic acids, and precipi- tation by liquor ammonise ; resistance to the blow-pipe, unless at a very rutense heat. This formation commonly enough occurs in alternatiag layers with other deposits. V. The Ammoniaeo-Magnesian Phosphate Calculus ; commonly called the Triple Phosphate Calculus—although that term might with fully as much accuracy be applied to the next variety. This and the following seldom occur as composing stones entirely ; but rather as coatings or layers of others—the uric and oxalate of lime more especially. The colour is nearly white ; the surface is covered with minute shining crystals; the texture is not laminated, or at least is imperfectly laminated; the stone is soft, easily broken and pidverised, and may attain to a large size. The tests are—solubility ui acetic or muriatic acid ; evolu- tion of ammonia, when treated with liquor potasses ; diminution and imperfect fusion under the blow-pipe, exhaling an ammo- niacal odour. VI. The Fusible Calculus; composed of the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate, conjoined with phosphate of lime; is white and friable, like chalk; and may stain the finger when touched; the size and form are very various ; fi-eqaently it attains to a very large size, and is often met with encrusting foreign bodies. The test is, its remarkable fusibility into a clear glass before the blow-pipe. It is partially soluble in dilute-acetic and sulphuric acids, the remainder dissolving in muriatic acid, and in- soluble in caustic potash, but when treated with it giving off ainmonia. VII. The Carbonate of Lime Calculus is common in the lower ani- Fig. 329, The triple phosphate surrounding a centre of uric acid. 3 z