757 EXTIRPATION OF THE UPPEIl JAW. nostril by detaching the ala. Should the tiimour be of largo size towards the cheek, the incision wiU require to be extended from the external ,u-ular process of the frontal bone, or malar prominence, obliquely clowmvards to the angle of the mouth; dividing the whole thickness of the cheek. The flap, indicated by either of these two lines of incision, is then dissected off the tumour ; and is held out of the way by an iissistant. The orbital fascia is divided along the lower margin of the jvhit, and the contents having been separated from the orbital plate, ^iiay be gently elevated and protected by a flat copper spatula, which is also leld by°the assistant. By a small saw—stronger and longer than what s oixlintu-ily sold as Hey's—the union between the maxillary and malar )one is severed. By the same instrument the nasal attachment is divided, nd then the alveolar process is cut through, at the point where the tooth las been extracted ; and a groove may also be made in the palatal plate Fig. m. [this is deemed necessary. A pair of powerful bone-pliers are then to complete the section of the osseous attachments already men- Ined. If such an instrument be not at hand, however, the section may I completed readily enough by means of the saw alone. But in most |e8 the bone is so easily divided by the cutting pliers, that, except for malar bone, the saw is unnecessary. Now, by pressing the tumour iwards, and tilting it outwards, the bone-pliers being employed as [ever, and the healthy alveolar process acting as a fulcrum, it is dis- ced from its connections. At this period of the operation the soft ite should be divided transversely, from the point of the hamular jcess of the palate bone, or from the tuberosity of the alveolar process le maxilla, to the middle line, and the bone will then be easily |ioved from its bed by further depressing the tumour, and twisting it side to side—due care being taken of the eyeball meanwhile. |>uld the tumour, however, be too small to afford sufficient pur- se, then pressure from above with the thumbs upon the margin of orbit will generally suffice to effect the dislodgmcnt. If the ng. 272. Tumour of the upper jaw ; shewing the lines of incision for removal.