35 HECTIC. broken ; but it is obtained in sufficient amount to preserve the cerebral functions in a state not for differing from that of health. The duration of hectic may be almost indefinitely protracted; espe- cially when the intervals of the paroxysms are tolerably free from febrile excitement. When, however, the fever is constant, when sweating is excessive, and when suppuration is profuse, progress to a fatal termina- tion may be rapid. Emaciation proceeds to the last stage ; the features assume a shrunk, withered aspect; the eyes are sunk in the orbits ; all the bones are prominent; the flushing subsides into a pallid leaden hue ; and the whole expression is that called, by old authors, the fades Hip- jjocratica—the sure sign of approaching dissolution. Death is usually by piu'e exhaustion; the pulse and respiration ceasing very gradually, and the mind often remaining unclouded almost to the last.* Of course, this fever is found to vary in duration, intensity, and issue; according to the nature and duration of the cause which called it forth. On the removal of the cause, recovery is often extremely rapid. When pus is formed rapidly after the onset of the inflammatory pro- cess, and is diffused throughout the textures, from want of concomitant formation of fibrinous product, the injury, as already stated, is great; by infiltration, softening, disintegration, and gangrene. The constitu- tional symptoms attendant thereon are not those of Hectic, but of Irrita- tive Fever. In the part, advancing destruction of texture is preceded by spreading inflammatory change, of a rapid and intense kind. The disease tends to excite the system; but its effect on texture, having a directly contrary influence—produces general typhoid depression as a result. It need not surprise us, therefore, to find the general disorder consisting of febrile excitement, modified and overborne by depression of the vital powers. The pulse is frequent and hard; at first with indication of strength, but soon betokening manifest debility. The tongue is usually tremulous, and covered with a thick, dark-coloured, offensive fur; moisture gradually leaves it, and it ultimately becomes shrunken, hard, broAvn, and dry. The urine is scanty, high-coloured, and of unpleasant odour; sometimes apparently suppressed. Sometimes there is diarrhoea, some- times constipatioa Eigors are frequent; followed by perspiration, usually profuse. There is much restlessness, with agitation of manner, anxiety of expression, and pinching of the features. Respiration is hun-ied and sighing, and there is a sensation of oppression at the chest. * It is difficult to resist the temptation to quote here a beautiftd description of some of the more striking features of tliis disease, from the non-professional pen of a most close and skilful ohserver of nature—in all her varied phases and fonns :—" But there were times, and often too—when the sunken eye was too bright, the hollow cheek too flushed, the breath too thick and heavy in its course, the frame too feeble and exhausted, to escape their regard and notice. There is a dread disease which so prepares its victim, as it were, for death; which so refines it of its gi-osser aspect, and throws around famihar looks, unearthly indications of the coming change—a dread disease, in which the struggle between soul and body is so gradual, quiet, and solemn, and the result so sure, that day by day, and gi-aiu by grain, the mortal part wastes and withers away, so that the spirit gi-ows light, and sanguine with its lighten- ing load; and feeling immortality at hand, deems it but a new term of mortal life—a disease m whicli death and life are so strangely blended, that death takes the glow and hue of life, and life the gaunt and grisly form of death.''