709 GLAUCOMA. These symptoms may either commence as described, or the acute :ittack, after lasting for a few days, may merge into the chronic; or this ■nay pass off altogether, and then the chronic form may be assumed at some further but usually not distant date. In Acute cases, an opportunity is rarely aiForded for ophthalmoscopic examination; and the same is of course true in chronic cases, where the leas has become opaque or the media turbid. When, however, the iection is not so far advanced, or when from suitable treatment the lection has been checked—more or less of black floating specks, threads, masses, are observed in the vitreous humour; and when these are imerous, the retina is seen as thi-ough a haze or black veil The tex- res of the retina appear less transparent than in the normal state; metimes hazy and greyish, either in spots, or diffusedly through its xture. Extravasated patches are seen beneath, in, and within the iina. The first are more or less flattened, usually extensive, and gene- ily multiple; those in the retinal substance are usually small, round, id distinct; those witJiin float like a brownish, reddish, or blackish lud. They may occur in any part, but are most serious, as affecting ognosis, when occupying the visual axis. In an eye affected by an liammatory process in these textures, the optic entrance appears of a Idish tint, occasioned partly by extravasation, partly by imbibition of e colouriug matter of the blood; there is a varying degree of cupping the optic nerve, with diminution in size of the arteries contained itlun it, and lateral displacement of them proportioned to the depth d definition of outline of its margin; a spontaneous arterial pulse *sts in the arteries withiu the cup, sometimes synchronously affecting eir accompanying veins, while at the same time the circulation is easily terrupted by slight pressure upon the globe. The retinal vessels are nerally diminished in number and size. Such cases of inflammatory ection of the deep-seated textures of the eye, involving principally e retina and choroid at the outset, are now-a-days, as we have said, ually included under the title of Glaucoma—acute and chronic—to 'ch, since the meeting of the Ophthalmological Congress in Brussels 1857, so much attention has been paid, in consequence of Grafe's vel proposal for its curative treatment by what he calls Iridectomy. e actual starting-point of this disease is not as yet satisfactorily ascer- ed. Grafe attributes it to the occurrence of intra-ocular pressure, e to a choroiditis or ii'ido-choroiditis. By some it has been referred a gouty diathesis ; but sometimes it occurs without any other mani- tation of such a state of system, although it certainly is met with st commonly in persons upwards of fifty years of age, who have 'ered previously from some cause of general debiHty. Formerly such cases were treated actively when acute ; and when onic, were either regarded as hopeless, or for a time subjected to the uence of mercurials, iodine, arsenic, and colchicura, singly or combined, hopes of removing the conditions which primarily excited the inflam- tory process. The result of all such treatment was, that within a period vision became completely destroyed, and after the subsidence I acute symptoms, a bulging or staphylomatous sclerotic, or a widely d iris with a greyish-green reflex from the parts behind the pupil,