353 SYMPTOMS OF DISEASE OF CAETILAGE. Fig. 151. pathetic pain is complained of, sometimes predominating over that in the pfji-t—an example of irritation in one locality, induced by inflammatory change of structure in another ; pain in the knee, for example, is usually the most prominent symptom of disease in the hip ; and pain in the leg may mask destruction of the cartilages in the knee. The whole of the limb beneath the affected joint is usually both functionally and vitally weak; feeble and tottering; of diminished temperature, congested, and inclined to oedema. Wasting of superimposed muscle is often both a prominent and an early symptom of articular disease; atrophy of the deltoid, for example, along with pain, will at first be all there is to betoken disease of cartilage, of bones, or of both, in the shoulder; and flaccidity of the glutei does the same in regard to morbus coxarius. In the child, however, we must be on our guard against mistake on this point; inasmuch as muscular atrophy over joints not unfre- quently occurs in early life, altogether un- connected with articular disease; dependent on dentition, or on intestinal irritation. This atrophy of muscle, around such a joint as the knee or elbow affected with disease of the cartilaginous surface, gives it the appearance of enlargement in the articulating extremi- ties of the bones. There is however no real enlargement at this stage of the disease; though from inflammatory change the soft parts around the ends of the bones become agglutinated together, giving a smooth oval aspect to the general outline of the articu- lation. Swelling—not appearing till uneasy sen- sations have been present in the joint for some considerable time ; weeks, perhaps even months—then follows the steady aggravation of pain, which indicates the advance of the disease; and is both less bulky and less rapid in its formation, than that which attends on synovitis. It is composed of two parts j one internal, caused by gradual distention of the synovial pouch by slowly accumulating fluid ; the other external, from the inflammatory pro - duct in the textures exterior to the joint, these being now involved in a tolerably active sympathetic affection. In consequence of its double and gradual nature, the peculiar bulgings dependent on the natural conforma- tion of the joint do not occur ; a diagnostic mark between this affection and chronic synovitis. In acute synovitis, swelling is tolerably uniform ; but at the same time it is great, rapid, and coeval with the occurrence of pam; whereas in destruction of cartilage, it is slow, gradual, never so firsf'f ^''^ ^^^''ti"g of muscles shewn, with the apparent elongation of limb, in the sentwi^fh^ disease of the hip-joint. The muscular deficiency is but imperfectly repre- ; the change of natal fold, resulting from it, is however sufficiently apparent. 2 A