RESULTS OF GONORRUCEA. 1140 terior part of tlie canal, upon which an injection, employed as already described, cannot act, nitrate of silver may be applied—cautiously—by means of Lallemand's porte-caustique. In some cases of obstinate gleet, the discharge seems to be kept up by chronic prostatitis, and to come fi-om the follicles of the gland. Under such circumstances, Chian turpentine, in five-grain doses, often arrests the secretion; seeming to have a special action on these parts* After discharge has ceased, and uneasy sensations have almost wholly disappeared, great care is still necessary on the part of the patient. Cure is not yet complete. A hearty meal, a debauch in wine, venereal indulgence, a long walk or ride, may reinduce the discharge and pain. Avoidance of all such re-exciting causes, therefore, must be scrupulously observed, until at least a week has elapsed. As to the period when the possibility of communication by urethral discharge ceases, opinions differ. Probably the matter is most virulent when it is most copious, nearly resembling pus in its characters, and when the symptoms by which it is accompanied are most acute. But such questions are, as yet, not fully removed from uncertainty; and it is well always to approach error on the safer side ; holding for practical purposes, that so long as there is any discharge, no matter how small in quantity, or gleety in character, there is at least a possibility of com- municating infection by it. Sometimes the eyes suffer by gonorrhoea ; and one of two affections Inay occur. Gonorrhceal OiMhalmia includes two distinct affections ; one the purulent Conjunctivitis ; the other an affection of the aqueous capsule, forming a part of, though possibly the only symptom of, gonorrhceal rheumatism. Gonorrhceal Conjunctivitis, as formerly noticed, is in all cases the result of direct contagion; gonorrhceal matter having been applied either from a second party, or from the genital organs of the patient himself. It is rarely or never seen in women. The inflamma- tory process is rapid and intense ; and active measures are necessary, to prevent serious structural change. Gonorrhceal aquo-capsulitis, on the other hand, is a remote result of the irritation of the prostatic portion of the urethra; the symptoms are usually mild in their character, and demand no severity of treatment. It most frequently occurs in those who suffer, or have suffered previously, from gonorrhceal rheumatism; and is not unlikely to be associated, or to alternate with affections of the joints. Secondary symptoms, of any kind, after urethritis, are rare. Some- times, indeed, a febrile disturbance is followed by papular eruption; this is due, however, in general, not to the gonorrhoea, but to the copaiba, which possesses this peculiar property in certain constitutions, just as shell-fish in some persons always induces nettle-rash. This eruption of L/ichen or nettle-rash (urticaria) must not be mistaken for scarlatina on the one hand, or for sypliilitic manifestations on the other. The effect of saline purgatives, the warm bath, and discontinuation of the copaiba, will at once enable the practitioner to form a diagnosis. When undoubted secondary syphilitic eruptions follow after gonorrhoea, three possibilities may account for this manifestation; 1st, That the discharge from the * Adams on Diseases of tlie Prostate, p. 35.