428 ANEUrjSM BY ANASTOMOSIS, in all respects stationary. The limb below the tumour is imperfectly supplied with arterial blood, a portion of the artery's contents entering the vein, and returning to the lieart; the limb consequently is cold, numb, and vitally weak. By obstruction to the venous return, also, passive congestion and oedema are likely to ensue ; at least for a time. By and by, collateral circulation having become fully established, both arterial and venous, a comparatively healthy condition may be largely restored. In consequence of this comparative absence of inconvenience and growth, the case cannot be regarded as one demanding operative inter- ference. Pressure is sufficient; to repress swelling, and to moderate, if not prevent, sanguineous intermixture. We have no hope of so occlud- ing the aperture. Palliation is our only object; repressing growtli^ removing uneasy sensations, and permitting use of the limb. Should, however, a case occur of unusual urgency, and the patient become dis- satisfied with merely palliative treatment, a direct incision may be made on the artery; and, a cautious dissection having separated its coats from the surrounding parts, above and below the aperture of communication, a ligature may be passed and secured at each of these points. The affection itself is rare; and still more so are examples of urgency sufficient to render such operative interference expedient. Aneueism by Anastomosis ; Vascular, oe Erectile Tumour. This, having been classed with tumours, might have been considered along with them. Yet it comes naturally in coimection with diseases of the arterial tissue. The term denotes a diseased formation in which the vascular tissue bears the most prominent part. There are varieties of such adventitious structure, 1. The capil- laries of a portion of integument may be equably and permanently dilated ; producing discoloration, and but slight elevation of the affected part. Such enlargement and injection are to but a slight extent; and do not increase. Yet bleeding may be somewhat free when a breach is made in the surface, by ulcer, or by wound. This is one form of n^evus, or congenital mark; an affection of no danger, and but little incon- venience. It may be looked upon as rather a deformity than a disease. 2. The structure may consist chiefly of dilated veins, retentive of tone and energy of function; fed by arterial branches, of somewhat corresponding size and activity; yet the latter tissue holding but a com- paratively subordinate part in the development of the tumour. This morbid structure is not found in the substance of the true skin, like the preceding, but in the subjacent tissues ; of various size and prominence; causing a doughy elastic swelling, of a livid hue—venous structiu"e appearing with tolerable distinctness through the superimposed integu- ment. If breach of surface take place, hemorrhage is profuse, and chiefly of the venous character; callable of being arrested by pressure, without much difficulty. If an incision pervade the mass to any con- siderable extent, arterial l)ranches may be found spouting actively; but still the main stream is dark and venous.