778 TEETHING. stomach, and intestines, are of frequent occurrence ; requiring, wliile these diseased conditions are attended to, that the cause of tlie whole train of symptoms should not be neglected. So that, while soothing measures, as warm bathing, opiates, gentle laxatives, and even febri- fuge remedies are employed, scarification of the swoln tender gum projecting over the nascent tooth or teetli should never be omitted. This operation is effected by a convex-edged penknife, or scarificator for the purpose ; and the incision should be made both over the line of the edge of the tooth's crown, and also in a direction at right angles to this, so as to malce a crucial opening fairly down to the tooth. The cutting of the permanent teeth, with the exception of the wisdom teeth, is not usually attended with much uneasiness, if we except the tender gums which often accompany the shedding of the milk set. In cutting the wisdom teeth, more particularly in the lower jaw, very great uneasiness is sometimes experienced, such as rheumatic pains in the jaws rigidity of the masseter and temporal muscles, cynanche of an acute and erythematous type ; all of which, however, although in hysterical females possibly attended with anxious symptoms, will usually yield at once to lancing the gum and smart purgation. Morbid conditions of Development. — In connection with various diseased conditions closely allied to scrofula, on the one hand, and to tertiary syphilis on the other, occurring in young children, or adolescents, or even adults, Mx. J. Hutchison * has recently directed attention to the condition of the teeth as indicating the existence of some constitutional affection wMch modified their development, while they existed within their pulp cavities. This change, though observable sometimes in the milk teeth, is usually better marked in the permanent set. These changes are characterized by the " pegged " shape of the teeth (the naturally square ' incisors resembling the sharp canine), by the irregularity of the enamel I covering the crown, and by the tendency these teeth have to imdergo > premature decay. Attention to these peculiarities will frequently be found of very great use in determining the original nature of other diseased conditions, which being deeper seated do not afford the same . tangible and persistent characters. Crowded Teeth Are usually due to imperfect or delayed development of the jaw in relation to the rapidity with which the teeth are evolved. Tliis condition is important in a surgical point of view, as causing, pos- teriorly, swelling, vascularity, and ulceration of the mucous membrane; with, it may be, repeated attacks of troublesome and even dangerous: cynanche. In front, crowded incisors are very apt to cause abscess; not confined to soft joarts, but implicating the bone also, and frequently caus- - ing sinus below the chin. The remedy is plain; to avert or retrieve disaster by removal of one or more of the crowded teeth. * Oplithalmic Hospital Reports, 1st vol., 1858.