796 INDURATION OF THE TONGUE. iiioned by the contact of the organ with the teeth in the lower jaw. A wasting discharge of saliva necessarily results, and deglutition, articula- tion, and even breathing, may be interfered with. The lower anterior teeth become displaced, and the lower jaw, in its anterior part, is altered in form. The treatment is by rectification of the primse vise—usually very prominently disordered; sometimes repeated leeching of the part is use- ful ; and the internal administration of the iodide of potassium may be advantageous. Bandaging of the protruded part, with the appUcation of astringent lotions, should, however, constitute the principal part of the cure. And such means, patiently employed, will generally prove suc- cessful But should they fail, wholly or in part, it may be necessary to remove a portion of the apex, of a wedge shape, and of such a size as to restore the organ to something like its normal bulk, on approximation of the wound's edges ; at least rendering the tongue capable of residence within the mouth ; so removing the principal deformity and inconveni- ence—protrusion—and reducing the risk of excessive inflammatory change in the wound.* Induration of the Tongue. Locahzed indurations of the tongue precede the formation of the ter- tiary syphilitic ulcers of this organ, already mentioned. In their early stage they may resemble a pea, plum-stone, or filbert, situated in the deep textures of the central part; then the mucous membrane becomes adherent to their surface, they soften, the smface ulcerates, and a yel- lowish sloughy sore is disclosed. There is rarely more than one of these indurated masses present at one time ; they are usually indolent in their nature, and, until softening commences, painless. The existence of other symptoms of the syphilitic diathesis will aid the diagnosis ; and the student, in giving an opinion, should recollect that in such cases the general appearance of the part may closely simulate malignant disease, to one not practically acquainted with the characters of these affections. The treatment should consist in the use of iodide of potassiimi, coni- bmed with iron, or other tonics, and good food; stimulating the surfece occasionally by applying nitrate of silver. When the ulcerated condition is present, the applications already mentioned should be employed. Erectile Tumour of the Tongue. The erectile tumour may form in this organ. A few examples are on record. If the diseased structure be limited, prominent, and acces- sible, it is to be removed by inclusion in ligature. If it involve th whole organ, or be otherwise not suitable for dehgation, attempts may he' made to induce a change of structure, by the employment of some of the methods spoken of in the chapter upon aneiuism by anastomosis—calcu- * Lassus, Pathologie Chu-urg. t. ii. p. 160 ; and Mem. de I'lnstit. National, vol, i. p. 66 ; London Med. and Physical Joiunal, 1801, vol. vi. \\ 353. Edinburgli Med. and Surg. Jour., vol. i. p. 317. Mr. Crosse, Memoir. S}Tiie, Ob.scrvations m Clinical Surgery, p. 180.