SYMPTOMS OF VESICAL CALCULUS. 1079 sure to be induced and aggravated, as well as the pain, by exercise ; more especially, by being roughly jolted in a cart or other carriage ; and then, too, we may expect the urine which is passed to be more or less bloody. A stooping posture is usually adopted during micturition ; sometimes the patient rests on his knees and elbows j sometimes he leans over and rests on his head ; or has positively been Icnown to stand upon his head, his feet resting against the wall; the object beiug to avert pain, by removing the calculus from the most sensitive • part of the bladder—the trigone. The water at first may flow in full stream, and then it may stop suddenly; the stone having moved to the posterior orifice of the urethra, and temporarily occluded it, causing aggra- vation of pain. By change of posture, the stone is dislodged, and the flow restored. The stone, acting constantly as a source of irritation to the lining membrane of the bladder, induces congestion there; increase and change in the secretion result; mucus coming iu greater quantity, and more viscid than usual. And hence a common symptom of stone is, the presence of such mucus in the urine; settling down in the bottom of the pot, and often shewing itself there in great quantity, on the water being carefully poured off. If a chronic inflammatory process have been lit up in the inner coat, the mucus degenerates still farther, and re- sembles purulent matter. If suppuration have occurred, the membrane at the same time ulcerating, the bladder will contain more or less of true pus. And under such circumstances, the urine will generally be found dark-coloured, turbid, alkaline, and foetid. The rectum sympathizes, more especially in children; the bowel becomes irritable ; or hemorrhoids form ; or prolapsus ani occurs. Frequently there is a sympathetic un- easiness elsewhere ; the testicles may be tender and retracted, from time to time j pain often shoots down the thighs j and unpleasant heat is sometimes complained of in the soles of the feet. The symptoms are not uniformly severe, but are liable to remissions and exacerbations; the latter, termed " fits of the stone," are attended with great agony—as the self-performed operations of the blacksmith of Amsterdam and the cooper of Konigsberg abundantly testify—goaded on by torture to the desperate effort of ridding themselves from the stone by their own hands. These aggravations are induced by exercise, error in diet, or constitutional disorder ; and the greater part of the suffering, it is probable, is directly dependent on spasm of the muscular coat of the bladder. The symptoms also vary according to peculiarity of constitu- tion. One patient may suffer intensely, enjoying scarcely a moment's ease ; while another complains but little, and follows his usual avoca- tions, little disturbed; and yet the local circumstances may be very similar in both. And again, a variety in suffering is found to depend very much on the nature of the stone and the diathesis. The mulberry, con- trary to what would be expected, occasions less uneasiness than the smooth uric concretion. The phosphatic stone probably occasions more suffering than any other form of calculus ; the general system being more deranged, as well as the mucous membrane of the bladder being in a diseased state ; and both being consequently prone to resent the stone's stimulus; in other words, both the general and the local sensibility are morbidly increased. Also, with a varying diathesis, the intensity of the