655 CANCER OF THE EYELIDS. tluction of the tumour ; but there is no occasion for any such interference. The incision is effected by everting the lid, and tlicn cutting through the stretclied and prouiinent bit of tarsal cartilage, in a horizontal or crucial tlii-ection; or, when the tumour is large, by passing a sharp hook throui;h the translucent-looking part of the sac's wall, tlie bit is cut out by two eUiptical incisions, so as to leave a free opening. Wlien left to itself, an encysted tumour of the lid sometimes gives way internally ; a fleshy- looking granulating surface then projects, and by rubbing against tlie globe causes great u-ritation. In such cases the lid should be everted, and the prominence cHpped off with small curved scissors ; after which nitrate of silver solution may be dropped upon the surface occasionally, till all con- "•estion is removed. o Hypertrophy of the Upper Eyelid. The upper eyehd is occasionally affected by hypertrophy of both its integument and mucous membrane. The swelling is considerable, and causes deformity; it also obstructs vision; and there is an unpleasant piu-iform discharge. By two elliptical incisions, a sufficiency of the diseased integumental texture is removed j and the wound is approximated by suture. The conjunctival change is subsequently remedied by scarification, followed by the use of sorbefacients. Or should the conjunctiva resist this gentler means, partial ablation of it may be practised by clipping it away with scissors.* Cancer of the Eyelids. MaUgnant ulceration is usually preceded, in the eyelids, by warty formation. The only cure is by excision ; early and free. K the disease be limited, sufficient removal may be effected, yet without deformity or exposure of the eyeball; the wound being so shaped as either to come well together by suture, or to admit of the transplantation of a cuta- neous flap to occupy the gap. But when the disease is extensive, and an operation warrantable, the prevention of deformity need not enter into our thoughts. One paramount indication is present—removal of all the diseased part. That must be effected, at whatever sacrifice of texture. i When it is found necessary to remove the whole or greater part of the jeyehds, more especially the upper, on account of malignant nicer, it comes to be a question whether or not it be politic to spare the eyeball —supposing it to be sound. Some writers recommend its removal at once ; considering that the organ, being deprived of its natural protection, ■wall be destroyed by inflammatory change. Although this is not always the case, yet, when satisfactory restoration of the eyelid by a plastic operation cannot be effected, there is no advantage to be gained by sub- jectmg the patient to all the pain of a gradual destruction of the globe by inflammatory change before we remove the eyeball. This is rendered all the more decided as a rule, as the operation of excision of the eyeball jhas been rendered almost free from danger by recent improvements. 110^*0^''''^°^'^' ^^^"cet, No. 1089, p. 489; Ilaynea Walton, Op. Ophth. Surg., pp. «'^'-8; Syme's Clinical Surgeiy, 2d Edit., p. 175.