403 SPONTANEOUS CURE. tumour formed on the arteria anonyma. But perhaps, indeed, it were an error to apply the term cure to such an event. A more favourable result is the third variety of pressure ; when a tumour, not aneurismal, and un- connected with the vessel—perhaps an enlarged gland—compresses the artery, or artery and aneurism both, so as to induce agglutinated coagula- tion in the cyst. The principal disease is cured ; and the secondary for- mation, the independent tumour, may either disappear spontaneously, or be dealt with afterwards if necessary. 2. By occlusion of the aperture of communication ; independently of pressure, or moderation of the arterial flow. A firm portion of coagulum becomes detached from the fibrinous mass occupying the interior of the cyst, and is impacted in the aperture ; either preventing, or greatly limiting the arterial influx, and obviously favouring contraction and solidification of the tumour. To this result it is plain that a smallness of communicating aperture is favourable ; and were we at all times able, by auscultatory and other signs, to ascertain the dimensions of the aperture, we might more truly predicate, in those cases of internal tumours which are inaccessible to surgical interference, the result of treatment with the view of obtaining spontaneous cure. 3. Bi/ sloughing of the cyst; not partial, but including the whole. In- flammatory sloughing of the aneurismal cyst may occur spontaneously, or be the result of external injury. If the slough include the whole cyst, and spread no further, a fortunate issue may be predicated. The dead part separates in the usual way ; but not until the surrounding living textures have become densely occupied by plastic product ; and not imtil all the implicated blood-vessels, including the artery at the aneur- ismal part, have been consolidated. As the slough separates, conse- quently, no hemorrhage ensues; and healing advances in the ordinary way. Profusion of purulent formation is the principal danger ; when the suppurated part is large, and the patient already low in system. Hectic may ensue. If the slough be but partial, however, and do not involve the whole cyst, there is the greatest hazard. On separation of the slough, the open cyst and artery will be exposed ; hemorrhage wall be great, and probably fatal. 4. By the aneurism becoming diffuse. As formerly observed, if suppuration or gangrene do not occur, the pressure of the diti'usely infiltrated blood on the cardiac portion of the artery may so re- strain its flow as greatly to favour the occurrence of spontaneous cure. 5. By obliteration of the artery on the distal aspect. The aneurism, by making especial pressure there, may in truth effect a result similar to that of Brasdor's operation. The vessel may be gradually and finally shut up ; and if no collateral branch intervene between the occluded part and the opening into the aneurismal cyst, cure will follow. Or this occlusion of the artery may be caused by impaction of a fibrinous mass detached from the aneurismal clot—embolism : at first a mechanical obstruction, and perilous to the life of the limb, but ultimately producing safe and complete obliteration of the tube at that point, followed by either obliteration of the aneurism by concentric fibrinous laminae, or suppura- tion of the sac and evacuation of its contents. 2. The Surgical Treatment—Spontaneous cure, by any mode, being comparatively of rare occurrence, is not to be trusted to in practice, when other means are in our power. In olden times, the surgeon did not hesitate