MODE OF UNION. 537 ilonse and compact; but is gradually modified by absorption; and ulti- mately is so changed as to render continuity of the normal texture of the l)one complete. On making a section of recently united bone, a dense impact mass of new osseous matter is found intersecting the cancellous textui-e at the site of fracture ; but, after a few years, section discloses tliat part of the bone's interior perhaps a little more dense than elsewhere, \ et open, and quite of the cancellated character. And thus it would seem that not even the definitive callus can be said to be truly perma- nent. On the contrary, all callus is temporary; it has a certain duty to perform, Hke the uniting plastic tissue of soft parts; and, that having been achieved, it is gradually taken away. In the human subject, also, the process of union is effected in this Avay, in the case of certain bones, which cannot be accurately fixed and made motionless in the treatment—as, for example, the ribs, the clavicle, and perhaps the radius. And in all cases where, from some cause or other, there is mal-adjustment—whether with motion or not— the fractured ends crossing more or less, or completely overlapping—the permanent union is necessarily and mainly effected by provisional callus ; new bone in greater or less quantity filling up the angles and sj)aces between the ends, and "facing" these up with a dense laminated for- mation. When fracture in the human subject is well treated, with accurate adjustment and prevention of all motion, the process of union is very analogous to what occurs in other tissues by "adhesion." The new granulation tissue is formed mainly between and from the ends of the bones; and, passing from fibrous tissue into bone, restores continuity ^vithout much redundancy on the outside. There, however, there is no inconsiderable amount of hard swelling in connection with the healing process which is going on simultaneously in the periosteum, muscles, and uther soft tissues which have been implicated in the injury. In bending with partial fracture of the long bones, repair takes place as in complete fracture. Practically, it is important to remember, that the new bone remains to some extent soft and pliable, during the first few weeks of its existence ; not so yielding as to admit of motion between the fractured ends, under rdinary circumstances; yet pliable enough to admit of mal-adjustment '-•mg gradually rectified (if unhappily that have taken place) by pressure •mly appHed ; also pliable enough to permit serious and untoward bend- ing, if the functions of the part be too soon and too freely resumed. A broken leg must be warily used, for some considerable time after apparent c onsolidation; and a broken bone, anywhere, may have its contour re- fiedied, if need be, by suitable pressure—applied even after the process When there is a hiatus between the fragments—more especially in |e case of flat bones—through imperfect coaptation, the medium of union 'ot unfrequently fails to pass into the osseous state, and remains fibrous. Hi sometimes this is desirable rather than otherwise; as in the case of •3 r >!i 1, ligament be short, it is very efficient j and perhaps - liable than new bone to yield imder rcapplication of violence. It ' y remain permanently of the fibrous character, only increasing in