TREATMENT OF GONORTIUCEA. 1135 diet, or such like—reaccession of the inflammatory process may take place ; and the gonorrhoea may he revived in even more than its pristine severity. The Treatment of gonorrhoea varies, according to the stage of advance- ment. At the fii-st onset, in imitation of the analagous affection, purulent ophthalmia, what is termed the ectrotic or abortive treatment may he attempted; while the inflammatory process is still nascent, and suppu- ration has not yet occurred. The nitrate of silver is used, as in similar affections of the surface, with the view of procuring rapid resolution. It is applied, in the form of strong solution, to the affected part of the mucous membrane—carefully, by means of a vulcanite syringe—so as to act upon the anterior two inches of the canal. Some prefer the form of ointment,* or the solid caustic may be applied by a porte-caustique for the purpose. However applied, the operation should never be intrusted to the patient; it must be performed by the surgeon. The patient should pass water, and the application is made while he lies recumbent. The urethra is compressed by the finger and thumb at the root of the penis, either by the patient, or by means of an india-rubber ring and pad of lint, or by the jugum penis. The bulbous nozzle of the syringe is intro- duced within the canal; and, compressing the lips of the urethra around the narrow neck of the instrument, the surgeon presses down the piston of the syringe until he feels that the canal is distended with fluid. The syringe is then slipped out, while the fluid is retained by continued compression of the glans penis above and below, for three or four minutes, after which the injection is allowed to escape. A coagulated film is produced, which, adhering, protects the villous surface beneath during the passing of urine ; besides, the purely antiphlogistic effect of the remedy may be obtained here, as in erythema; and, not improbably, a third beneficial indication may be fulfilled—the virus may be chemically acted on and neutralised. Such injection or appHcation is made once or twice—at an interval of twelve or twenty-four hours ; and strict rest, with antiphlogistic regimen, is observed. Some employ the nitrate of silver in another way, for ectrosis ; using a weak solution—say two grains to eight ounces of water—and injecting this once every four hours, for ten or twelve times. We would put more faith in the con- centrated and less frequent form of application. This is somewhat painful, and creates a desire to micturite which should be resisted for two hours at least, an opiate suppository or injection being employed to allay the irritation if required. The first time the patient passes water, a few flocculent flakes usually come away, and a sense of burning uneasiness is experienced. For a few hours a copious sero-mucous dis- charge may escape, or suppuration may be rapidly established. In either case, the irritation and discharge cease within a few days, with the use of simple diluents and a restricted diet. The affection may thus either he arrested altogether, or hurried on to suppuration ; in either case reso- lution may follow, and the disease be cut short in its outset. Obviously, however, such treatment is applicable only to the very earliest stage— which is seldom brought under the cognizance of the surgeon; in irri- * 3i to of kni. The strength of the injection may vary from ten or fifteen to thirty grains of the salt in nn ounce of distilled water.