PUNCTURED FRA.CTURE. 62G cated by all surgical authorities. Stromoyer,* for instance, recommends, even in gunshot fractures of tliis kind, that no interference should permitted, the detaclunent and separation of depressed portions of hone being left to nature alone. While he undoubtedly speaks from experi- ence, and is backed by the results of similar non-interferences on tli.. part of British surgeons in the Peninsular, Crimean, and Indian cam- paigns, it seems very unreasonable to leave unremoved fragments which are exposed, detached, and virtually so many sources of irritation, ini contact with a membrane prone to inflame, and in which, to check the occurrence of inflammatory accession, we are abeady commencing to employ our most powerfid antiplilogistics. Let it be understood, then, that when, in a case of compound ture, with displacement, sharp fragments seem to be dangerously in con- tact with the dura mater—much more, if this membrane be penetratet or punctured by them—we ought as soon as possible to raise or remoT: the offending portions, whether head symptoms exist or not; for in ni other way can violent inflammatory accession be averted. When operative interference is determined on, the indications to b fulfiUed are sufiiciently plain. To expose the parts, by suitable incisioi of the soft textures superimposed. To use the sound margin of bone i a fulcrum, on which the elevating lever may rest. To iasiiiuate t" extremity of the lever beneath the displaced part, and to effect repl ment with as little violence as possible. For the insertion and worki of the elevator, sufiicient space may already exist. If not, this is to acquired; by gently lifting away a loose fragment; or by removing portion of the sound bone, by means either of the saw, the bone force or the trephine. After the operation, much antiphlogistic care m.' necessarily be maintained. Punctured Fracture. By the term " ordinary fracture, with or without displacement,' meant injury done by an obtuse body ; causing solution of contin throughout the whole thicloiess of the bone; and producing fragm composed of both tables of the skull, separated from their general cf nection in nearly equal proportions. A smooth, uniform, non-pene'' ing surface is consequently presented by the depressed portion to brain and its membranes. But when a sharp-pointed body—as point of a poker or pitchfork, the corner of a spade, shovel, or ha or the angle of a sharp stone or slate—impinges on and penetrates cranium, the nature of the injury is very different. The external ta is usually crushed by the penetrating body, to an extent proportioi^ to its lodgment. But the inner table gives way to a greater ext This used formerly to be explained by the greater brittleness of internal table of the skull; experimental inquiry, however, and examination of museum specimens—where, from the nature of tlic mj' the penetrating body has again made its exit from the cranial cavity * Stromeyer, Maximen der Kreigsheilknnsh, Hanover, 1855 ; also Brit, and i Med. Chir. Review, January 1856 ; Ballingall, Military Surgciy; WilliaJiison, \ on the Wouudcd from the Mutiny in India, London, 1859.