1146 THE SOFT NON-INFECTING CHANCRE. inflammatory process, causing pustular formation and ulcer, advances as already stated j ulceration being generally established by the sixth or eighth day from the time of infection. The progress may be con- veniently divided into four stages:—First, that of inflammatory accession and pustular formation. Eedness forms, with itching and heat; in the centre of the redness a papule rises, and vesication takes place ; the con- tents of the vesicle, at first serous and milky, become purulent—consti- tuting a pustule; this breaks, with or without scabbing, and discloses an acutely-inflamed ulcer beneath. The second period is that of ulceration; occupying, like the first, from three to ten, or even more days. The advancing sore is usually of a circular or oval form, as if a portion of skin had been punched out; of pale yellowish, or ash-gray, worm-eaten sur- face ; surrounded by a finely-serrated margin, and a bright, gradually diffused, inflammatory areola; and furnishing an ill-digested gummy discharge, containing pus-globules and fragments of broken down tissue. This is the period of extension of the chancre; and it is now that the most favourable opportunity exists for attempting the test by inocidation —if such be desired. During this period it is, too, that multiplication of the sore by spontaneous inoculation is so apt to occur, the virus beijig particularly irritating. Hence soft chancre is rarely single, usually multiple. Having arrived at a size which differs in each case, depending a good deal upon the texture in which the sore is situated, its position, and the care or neglect with which it is treated, the third period is reached, viz., of specific status quo. The sore becomes no larger, but it continues to render a virulent secretion. Gradually, however, the un- dermined, dusky, or violet-coloured margins become less elevated; the surface begins to secrete a more healthy pus j and large, flabby, weak granulations appear in the centre of the ulcerated surface ; while the margins become adherent to the parts beneath, and continuous with the granulating surface. The fourth stage, that of reparation, is now in progress ; and cicatrization is begun—usually taking from a fortnight to six weeks to become complete. During the period of extension, the destruction is usually more apparent than real, and rarely eats deeper than the tissue of the true skin ; sometimes, however, destroying it superficially to a very considerable extent, and thus creating unseemly puckering from cicatricial contraction. In most cases, when the sore is small, little or no trace of its existence is left after a few months have elapsed. It is very different, however, when the ulcer becomes phagedsenic ; to which change it is peculiarly liable. In some of these cases, the destruction is very great—prepuce, glans, and even the limb of the penis melting away under its influence, and leaving behind great deformities. The further signs by which this sore is distinguished, are : the absence of surrounding induration, its special tendency to phagedsena, and the frequency with which it involves the lymphatic gland, which lies nearest to the sore in the neighbouring chain, in a phlegmonous inflammatory process, terminating in suppuration, both within and around the affected gland. The pus of the former depot, being chancrous, infects the aperture of evacuation, and on inoculation affords specific results. While, however, the soft chancre possesses no true " induration of the base, this may be very closely simulated in some examples of this