KISKS OF THE OPEllATION. 1098 tlie free external incision of no greater depth than the superficial fascia • cutting afterwards on a low level—sloping the main wound obliquely upwards, from the level of the anus to the membranous portion of the urethra; never using the knife but with its back directed upwards; using the finger, to dilate, more freely than the knife to cut, in making the deep wound of the perineum; taking care to enter the knife's point, in the groove of the staff, behind the bulb; and, at this part of the operation, invariably moving the knife from the operator, with its back towards him. If the artery follow an unusual course, it may, perhaps, be detected and avoided ; when the surgeon adopts the safe and good practice of invariably preceding and accompanying Ms knife's point with his finger. When the vessel is wounded, three courses are open; to attempt deligation at the cut point—difficult, but not impracticable; to pass an aneurism needle round the trunk of the pudic, on the inside of the ramus of the ischium, securing it by ligature there—also difl&cult, yet possible ; or simply to apply pressure to the vessel in the latter situation, by an assistant's finger placed either in the wound or in the rectum— maintaining such pressure by a relay of assistance, until bleeding has ceased. Or an acupressure needle may be employed to secure the same object. Veins or small arteries may bleed to excess in the neighboiu*hood of the prostate—especially in the aged. This form of hemorrhage is readily restrained by pressure ; pledgets of lint being introduced firmly into the deep wound, along the tube—and retained, if need be, by a T bandage. This is one of the important uses of the tube ; its presence, as an open conduit for the urine, admitting of such plugging being made with perfect safety as to the chance of urinary obstruction and infiltration.* Arnott's fiuid dilator is also well calculated to be a successful compressing agent in such bleeding ; the open tube occupjang the centre of the appa- ratus, and the compressing fiuid consisting of cold water. By cold and pressiu'e it is doubly hemostatic. A common hthotomy tube, too, sur- rounded by a sponge wrapped up with cord—sponge-tent fashion—will he found not inefficient. Secondary hemorrhage sometimes occurs in the aged, in consequence of asthenic ulceration in the deep wound; this requires ordinary hemo- static treatment by general means. II, Peritonitis.—This is the result of inflammatory accession in the deep Avouud, extending thence to the coats of the bladder, and fi'om the outer coat passing to the general peritoneum. Or it may be occasioned by violence directly done to the bladder, by forceps or scoop. It is ac- companied by its ordinary signs and symptoms ; and is amenable to the ordinary treatment—leeching or venesection, calomel and opium, hot poultices and blisters. It is obviated by taking care, in dilating the deep wound, not to tear; by not bruising or tearing the vesical coats in any part, through inadvertent seizure by the forceps or scoop; and by never operating while the bladder is in an irritable or excited condition. * For obvious reasons, however, it is well to avoid such plugging if possible. The tube, no doubt, averts risk by urinary infiltration ; but the track of wound, and especially the neck of the bladder, is not likely to heal so kindly as if no such rough manipulation had been employed. Plugging for hcmoiThagc always affects the prog- nosis un toward! y.