HARELIP. 7G7 direction. A straiglit sharp-pointed bistoury is thon inserted at tlie upper or nasal angle of tlie deficiency, and carried steadily down- wards, after transfixion, so as to leave a smooth cut surface on the mar- oiu of the fissure. The like is done on the opposite side. On both sides the incision sliould bo curvilinear, so as to produce a prominence of the mai'gin of the lip at the site of the fissure, when the raw surfaces are brought into linear contact. To secure this more completely, various modifications of this simple operation have been devised ; for instance :— [Near the prolabium the knife is arrested and mthdrawn, and the two flaps are left pendent. The hp is then tem- poiurily brought together, and an estimate is made of how much of the lower part of one or both of these flaps should be retained, in order to fill up completely the notch which is otherwise so apt to remain at the prola- Ibium; and, this having been ascertained, the Inecessary abbreviation of the pendent flaps lis made. The wound is then finally closed, jaccurately, by points of twisted and interrupted wire sutures. The iltinia.te success of the operation depends chiefly on the accuracy ith which this co-aptation is effected, and therefore the sutures should lot be introduced till all bleeding has ceased, either spontaneously yi by the use of torsion. One needle close to the prolabial margin, Fig. 275. Fig. 276. ttcluding nearly the whole thickness of the lip, except the mucous bembrane, having been introduced, and the margins brought to- pher with the fingers, the effect is observed; and if seen to answer ptisfactorily, two or three points of wire suture are introduced between ae. needle and the nose ; while finally the thread is wound in a ficrure 8 round the harelip needle at the prolabium. The point of "this eedle is then cut off; and the needle itself may generally be re- Joved in two or three days. The wire sutures should be allowed to Fig. 274. Malgaigne's operation. The dotted lines mark the fissure. Fig. 275. Simple harelip. The dotted lines mark the incisions, in the ordinary |>eration,^but more of the prolabium should be removed. Fig. 276. Single operation for double harelip. The dotted lines mark the inci- Pns, as ordinarily practised ; but the lateral incisions answer better when made ilmear, and terminate by dividing the prolabial margin at a point correspondine the cut to .the line of the upper incisors.