1273 TKEATMENT OF LEUCORRUCEA. througli the speculum, every third or fourth day; care being taken to secure its proper application, by cleansing the parts with a small sponge or dossil of lint, previously. In all forms of inflammatory aflection of the cervix with ulceration, this is one of our most useful resources ; and in most cases, along with proper regulations as to rest of the parts, and atten- tion to the general health, it is successful. If the ulceration prove obsti- nate, however, other means may be tried ; as the local application of sulphate of copper, nitric acid, the acid nitrate of mercury, chloride of zinc, caustic potass, or potassa cum calce, or even the cautery, with all care as to the necessary precautions against the caustics injuring the neighbouring parts, or penetrating too deeply. After the ulceration has been healed, it is generally necessary to continue the adjuvant treat- ment for a considerable time ; and to check the leucorrhoea which may persist, a variety of astringent lotions may be used, as circumstances de- mand. Among these may be mentioned the simple douche of cold water, injected into the vagina for a few minutes, once or twice a day ; the use of strong infusion of green tea, with some borax added—eight or ten ounces being injected morning and evening; the use of decoction of oak bark in the same way, or of weak solutions of sulphate of ziuc, alum, acetate of lead, or of nitrate of silver in small quantity. Sometimes the application of two or three leeches to the cervix, through an ordinary speculum, is useful to dispel the inflammatory irrita- tion, and to remove local congestion. During the painful stage the bella- donna ointment ball, with chloroform, or a continuous stream of carbonic acid gas, forms an excellent sedative. And the application of iodine in tincture through the speculum, or its use in the form of iodide of lead ointment introduced into the vagina in the form of a ball covered with a thin coating of wax, is often advantageous in dispelling hyper- trophy. The most intractable cases are those where the disease is chronic, and where there is great enlargement of the cervix. In these, there is frequently a degree of engorgement and hypertrophy of the whole uterus, as well as displacement of the organ ; and although reduction of the size of the cervix, and arrest of the leucorrhoea, frequently remove the entire afi'ection, there constantly recur cases where this does not happen and the symptoms of uterine disease persist. In such circumstances, the pro-: gress to cure is often tedious, and treatment must be directed to the sub- inflammatory engorgement and hypertrophy of the womb, and to the general health, simultaneously. In reducing the enlarged cervix, it is sometimes necessary, in addition to the means already described for the cure of ulceration, to resort to more heroic means. After destroying a part of the diseased surface by means of strong caustics, absorption and disappearance of the remaining portion are induced. For this, various plans have been recommended; such as the careful application, through an ivoiy speculum, of a cautery at white heat. Thus a slough is pro- duced, and a healthy ulceration may follow; the remedy being after- wards repeated or not, according to circumstances. The application of potassa cum calce has also been advised; but a more efficient and satis- factory plan is to apply freely to the most indurated part the potassa fusa, through a glass speculum; guarding the neighbouring paits by