ItlSKS OF THE OPERATION. 1100 But it is, perhaps, a safe general rule, to award pre-eminence to infiltra- tion ; treating it much in the ordinary way ; in other Avords, endeavour- ing to support the system at all hazai-ds, and hoping to afford it an oppor- tunity of struggling through. V. The Wound may Inflame untowardly; suppurating copiously; perhaps sloughing. This is dangerous to a weak frame, hy reason of the grave amount of constitutional disorder which attends, more especially when the deep part of the wound is much affected; the patient may sink under inflammatory fever; or he may afterwards succumh to hectic. The inflammatory access is obviated hy care in the use of the finger and forceps while operating—neither tearing nor bruising ; and it is treated by ordinary antiphlogistic means—cautiously, with a view to the coming chance of hectic tendency under a long open and discharging wound. For, the sloughs must separate ; enlarging the wound, and necessarily delaying greatly the process of cure. VI. Cystitis is to be obviated, by operating only in a quiet state of the bladder; by avoiding bruise of the prostatic wound; and by using the forceps and scoop with all gentleness, in reference to the coats of the viscus. VII. Aggravation of Renal Disease.—Plain indication of organic disease in the kidney is in most cases held sufficient to contra-indicate the operation. But the symptoms of this, obscure and masked, may have deceived the surgeon. In such circumstances, the aggravation fol- lowing on the operation will be subdued with difficulty; the patient will m all likelihood perish. VIII. Constitutional Irritation may prove dangerous in one of two forms:—1. As a Shock; the immediate consequence of the operation. This may occur to a grave extent, as after other severe operations; and the patient may never rally—death taking place within twenty-four hours, by sinking. Or Hectic may ensue ; in consequence of the wound remaining long open, and emitting a copious discharge j as is apt to occur after inflammatory access in a weakly patient. Then we have to invite restoration of the urethral flow, by cautious use of a catheter; to favour closure of the wound, and diminution of the discharge, by suit- ably stimulant dressing; and to maintain the powers of the system, by the general treatment adapted for hectic. Sometimes, this state of matters has been found dependent on the presence of another stone within the bladder, preventing closure of the internal wound ; overlooked jn the operation ; or, perhaps, since descended from the kidney. Under such circumstances, it is our duty to dUate the wound, and to obtain extrusion of the stone by the scoop or forceps. IX. Erysijpelas may occur; extending from the wound to the nates and thighs, as well as to the perineum and abdominal parietes. It is obviated, by not operating unless the primze vise are in a satisfactory condition, and by great attention to cleanhness ; maintaining a proper staff of attendants, who keep the patient dry, clean, and as comfortable as circumstances will allow. X. The Wound may become Fistulous.—It may contract to a certain extent, and then remain stationary ; a portion of the urine continuing to pass through the fistulous trade. This remote result is more trouble-