412 ACCIDENTS OF THE OPERATION. The linil) lias been rubbed, heated, or otherwise stimulated, prematurely and to excess. But euro may fail, even should the deligation itself succeed. Suc- cess is not invariable. 1. There may be an idiosyncra.sy of system, whereby coagulation of the blood is prevented; a diathesis analogous to the scorbutic, or to that which is termed hemorrhagic. In such circumstances, the remedies tending to oppose that state are to be em- ployed ; acetate of lead and opium, sulphate of soda, etc. 2. Or there may be a want of re-active pressure and support on the solidifying tumour, by superimposed textures. As has been well shewn by Mr, Porter, aneurism of the upper part of the carotid is unfavourably situated in this respect. From a want of investing texture on the pharyngeal aspect, the tumour not only extends chiefly in that direction, during growth ; but also, after operation, it may faO. to solidify, contract, and disappear. Other aneurisms, when superficial, may labour under similar disadvantage. Such deficiency is to be atoned for, as far as circum- stances will permit, through application of artificial pressure and support, by means of compress and bandaging. The casualties which may attend on the operation by ligature are hemorrhage, phlebitis, and gangrene and suppuration of the sac. The most important of these is hemorrhage. This may be variously induced. 1. By sloughing of the arterial tissue. The artery has been too freely and extensively detached from its surrounding connections; it loses both its mechanical support, and, from imperfect nutrition, its vital power. A certain amount of the inflammatory process necessarily follows the injury done in operation; there is no sufficiency of power in the inflaming part to resist or control; it perishes; and, on separation of the slough, a gush of arterial blood discloses the open condition of the artery. Thus is occasioned the earliest form of bleeding; occurring within a few days after the opera- tion. A large space of vessel being usually opened, the flow may prove at once fatal. More frequently, however, it remits; and by repetition exhaiists the patient. 2. By ulceration at the time of the ligature's separation; usually between the tenth and twentieth days. How this may occur has already been explained; from want of plastic product. On the one hand; and from proneness to ulceration on the other. It may be the fault of the artery; the coats at the dehgated point being so degenerated as to be quite incapable of the required salutary change. It may be the fault of the operation; the coats having been too much detached; not enough to induce sloughing ; but quite enough to carry the inflammatory process beyond the plastic stage into that of suppuration and ulceration. It may be the fault of the ligature; too broad and clumsy in its nature; not dividing the internal coat, so as to permit resilience and coaptation of the cut sui'faces, favourable for adhesion; and, by necessaiily producing a large slough, so disturbing the vitality of the adjoining as well as of the included tissue as to induce a proportionally gi-eat amovmt of ulcera- tion during the process of detachment. Or it may be the result of accidental circumstances, over which we have little or no control; as erysipelas, purulent infiltration, phagedainic ulceration, febrile disorder,