GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 501 or Yielding readily to ordinary restoratives. Cases arc on record, no doubt, where a trivial injury has, from the mental depression suddenly in- duced, been followed by a fatal issue, and where, after death, no serious lesion could be detected elsewhere. When, however, in a case of apparently slight wound, we find much depression of system, which refuses to jaeld, we may be tolerably certain that what before seemed trivial is in truth severe, and that some internal organ has been seriously implicated. And yet it is strange how the intense excitement of hot action may prevent or rather modify the shock, to a great extent; though only for a while. " A foot soldier at Waterloo, pierced by a musket bullet in the hip, begged water from a trooper who chanced to possess a canteen of beer. The Avounded man drank, returned his heartiest thanks, men- tioned that his regiment was nearly exterminated; and, having pro- ceeded a dozen yards in his way to the rear, fell to the earth, and with one convulsive movement of his limbs ended his career. Yet his voice gave scarcely the smallest sign of weakness." And again when shock does exist in full force it is remarkable how clear and unshaken the mind often remains. At Corunna, " an old officer who was shot in the head, arrived, pale and faint, at the emporary hospital, and begged the surgeon to look at his wound, which was pronounced mortal. ' Indeed I feared so,' he responded, with im- peded utterance He laid his sword upon a stone at his side, as gently as if its steel had been turned to glass, and almost imme- diately sank dead upon the turf" At one time, it was supposed that a shock, sufficient to cause instant death, might be sustained from mere concussion; produced by a large shot passing with great rapidity and closeness, yet without actually touching the body; and that laceration of muscles and arteries, with fracture of bones, might be occasioned in a similar way. But it is now weU imderstood, that these are not the effects of mere " wind contusions," as they were termed; but are produced by balls, which have really struck the surface—yet with so little directness, as to merely bruise without infficting an open wound. An internal cavity, as of the cranium, may sustain even a fatal concussion by the contact of a spent shot, with- out any signs of an outward bruise ; but, usually, the signs of contusion are both apparent and extensive. A round shot, when first projected, passes in a straight course ; but soon it assumes a curvilinear, paraboloid direction ; and at the same time it rotates on its own axis—this rota- tion increasing with the increased distance, and the diminished velocity. Sweeping or penetrating wounds are likely to follow obstruction to the first part of its course; while, in its last stage, it may merely roll round or over the part, as a wheel passes over a limb. Attention to this circumstance tends to explain the occurrence of such latent injuries ; as well as to account for the remarkably circuitous routes sometimes taken by round mu.sket bullets which penetrate the textures of the body. The course of bullets, more especially when round, is at all times imcertam. A very slight obstacle suffices to cause diversion from the rectilmear direction—as evidenced by the rebounding of round shot