458 NEUROMA. After wound, as on tlie face of a stump, neuromata vary in size, ac- cording to the original dimensions of the nerves affected. The nerve itself, for some way above, is also slightly increased in bulk, tortuous, and unusi ally vascular. Under all circumstances of healed wound, the cut portions of nerve undergo an enlargement and condensation. And it is proballo that the neuromata are caused by a similar process and change of itructure, which have transgressed the limits of expediency. The ordinal y bulbous end of a cut nerve, in a stump or other Avound, is not painful or inconvenient; but the neuroma—an exaggeration of tliis —is both, to a very great degree. Besides, the neuromata, in a stump, are in general intimately incorporated with the hard cicatrix ; which is tightly adherent to the bone and its dense investing textures. And this circumstance, of itself, might be the cause of much irritation to the nerves which it implicates, even if these Were otherwise little altered in . structure. The pain of neuromata is great, though not constant ; increased by • pressure, and likened by patients to a galvanic shock ; often presenting ; all the characters of intense neuralgia ; embittering existence, and gi'eatly ' deranging the general health. Epilepsy has been kno^vn to follow, ap- • parently, from this cause ; hysteria, not unfrequently. The remedy is by extirpation. In the case of the neui'omatous tumour r developed on an undivided nerve, the swelling is cut down upon and exposed ; and, the nerve having been cut across at a little distance above and below the enlargement, the diseased part is dissected away from its surrounding attachment ; to which, usually, it but loosely adheres. This entails paralysis of that nerve for a time ; and the ultimate resump- tion of function will usually be incomplete. But surely the absence of all sensation is preferable to pain of an excruciating intensity. In some cases, however, by a careful dissection, a fibrous tumour devek^ped Fig. 194. Section of a neuroma; tliree nervous trunks terminating in it. The fibrous an-angement shewn, as observed by the naked eye.—SMrrn. Fig. 195. Fibrous structure of neuroma ; from the case published by Dr. Smith of Dublin. After immersion in spirit, whicli has caused corrugation of the graimles and corpuscles.—i'Vom a drmving by Br. Bennett.