125 SLOUGH [NG-PII A.GED .ENA. respects identical, has been reserved till now. It is both constitutional and local. The primt^ vi£8 almost invariably shewing signs of oppression, a purc-ative, not over active, is exhibited. And some antimonial may be at the°same time given; should there seem any effort towards a sthenic form, in the constitutional disorder. If so, it will only be at the com- mencement ; for very soon Irritation is the decided type. When the tongue begins to clean, and the patient looks liglitened by the evacuation, then the ti-eatment pecuhar to constitutional irritation should come into play. A very suitable remedy, under such circumstances, is Dover's powder ; in doses of ten grains, or thereby, given three times a day. _ It relieves the secretions, assuages local pain and general irritation, brings do^vn the pulse, gives sleep, and obviously exerts a most beneficial influ- ence on the local disease. And should this, by its persistence, demand repetition of painful remedies, it is well to give an additional dose of the powder at each such repetition. At the same time the use of iron inter- nally is usually of great value ; in the form of either the sesquichloride or the tartarised salt—^in full and sustained doses. Atmospheric influence should also be attended to. In many cases—more especially when this form of sore is of secondary accession—this would seem to be the predis- posing, if not the exciting cause of the disease. And whenever circum- stances give rise to such suspicion, the patient ought of course to be carefully excluded, as much as possible, from the operation of the imtoward agency. Diet should be good, yet non-stimulant; and in the first instance, at all events, restriction to the farinacea will be expedient. As to local management, surgeons are not quite agreed. One party advocate the most lenient measures—poulticing, rest, and expectancy ; while another are in favour of severe and active remedies—escharotics— at the outset; in order to cut short the disease, and—along with suitable constitutional treatment—to change the character of the sore into the heahng type. Among the latter I would have myself enrolled; and simply because experience of both gives, to my perception, a decided superiority to the energetic over the expectant system One resaon why some have lost faith in active remedies, I believe to be, that these have not been efficiently applied. Great humidity has been already stated to be a prominent characteristic of the majority of such sores. An escharotic, applied to the parts unprepared, proves almost inert; for it is dissolved by the fluids, and passes off after having but grazed the sohds. The first and most essential part of the manipulation is, to dry the surface and parts around thoroughly; by tow or lint, gently yet firmly applied. At the same time, loose sloughs are taken away, and the thickness of adhe- rent dead parts is diminished, by scissors. Thus, and thus only, is the sore prepared to be duly affected by escharotics. Of these, two are most in favour; nitric acid, undiluted; and the fluid pemitrate of mercury. The former seems the more adapted for general use ; and is certainly preferable for the first application ; being equally effectual in forming an immediate and sufficient eschar, and followed by considerably less protracted pain. A flat piece of wood, or a director wrapped round at the extremity with lint, is soaked in the acid; and then pressed firmly on every part of the alfected surface, as well as on the yet living margins. And the application is continued, until all