1352 teale's operation modified. cutaneous surface, or pressing excessively and painfully upon neigh- bouring osseous prominences, as in the old method. There are, how- ever, many cases of injury in which such a long flap cannot be ob- tained, without dividing the bone at an unnecessarily high point. To obviate this objection, and to facilitate the operative manipulations, two methods have of late been extensively practised. One (Alanson and Spence) consists in the formation of a single long anterior flap, with a rounded outUne. This is formed principally of skin and areolar tissue, but contains also the mass of muscles obliquely divided towards the bone. The textures upon the posterior aspect are cut through with a sweep of the knife upon the level to which the anterior flap has been raised. The whole of the soft parts are then firmly retracted, and the bone cut through as high as exposed. The vessels having been tied, the front flap falls over the end of the bone, and covers in the mass of muscles pos- teriorly. The result is, in regard to appearance and ability to suppoi-t the patient's weight, quite as satisfactory as by Mr. Teale's plan. The second method (Alanson and Syme), tending to keep the cutaneous cicatrix free from the end of the bone, is well suited for primary ampu- tation ; as it affords an ample covering, without dividing the bone at an unnecessarily high level. Two areolo-cutaneous flaps are formed; the larger in front, in length about two-thirds of the diameter of the limb ; the shorter behind, and intended only to meet and adapt itself to the anterior ; its length, therefore, should be about one-half of the anterior, or one-third of the diameter of the limb. In the thigh, the anterior flap should contain, except at its margin, a good deal of the muscular tissue of the quadriceps extensor cruris; the posterior, on the contrary, should contain no muscle ; and to prevent its being carried upwards by the con- traction of the powerful flexor muscles of the knee, the areolo-cutaneous flap should be dissected up to its angle of junction with the anterior before the muscles are divided. The muscles in front tend to maintain the vascular supply of the anterior flap, besides forming a thick firm cushion, covering in the end of the bone. These last-described methods —of chiefest importance in amputations low down in the thigh and arm, especially of a primary kind—are least necessary when, from long- standing disease, the tendency to retraction is much diminished, partly by cohesion of the soft parts to each other and to the bone, and also from the muscles having undergone fatty transformation. Amputation of the Fingers. Amputation at the Distal and Middle Joints is performed thus :—An assistant controls bleeding, by grasping the wrist tightly. Another separates the fingers from that which is to be removed; at the same time steadying the hand in a pronated position. The surgeon lays hold of the fingerj slightly bending the joint at which removal is to take place ; and the articulation is then laid open, by a sweep of a narrow straight bistoury. Division of the lateral hgaments is cora- pleted, if need be, by the point of the instrument; and the joint is more flexed, to favour disarticulation. This having been cff'ected, the knife's blade is placed behind the head of the bone; and by cutting