983 TUMOURS OF THE BEEAST. fereuce. Tlio really Scatisfacfcory cases for operation are those which occur in women about fifty years of ago, when the disease is traceable to injury, when its progi-ess has been and is slow, when there is no glandu- lai" or pectoral implication, and when the patient has a tolerably healthy appearance. In aged patients suffering from the atropine form of scirrhus, there is no propriety in resorting to operation, as the progress of that affection is not likely materially to shorten their days. Tlie Medullary Tumoicr of the Breast is, as an original affection, less common than scirrhus, but frequently constitutes the form of cancer assumed in those cases where the disease is reproduced after the removal of scirrhus. It may appear at any age after puberty, but most commonly occurs in patients in middle life. The characters of the tumour are found iu its soft elastic consistence, and in its irregular form, with more or less discoloration of the skin at the most prominent parts—presenting a reddish or brownish tint, duo to a great increase in its capillary vascularity, with large veins coursing beneath the skin, particularly towards its axillary margin. Tlie pain varies in different cases, and in the same case at different periods of its progress. As the disease advances, the patient becomes sickly in aspect, of a chlorotic hue, and presents a pecu- har, languid, care-worn expression. Locally, the tumour tends to involve the subjacent muscles, the walls of the chest, and the axillary glands; while the skiu fii-st becomes adherent over the prominent part of the mass, and then ulcerates, while from the opening so formed the softened morbid structure protrudes in the form of a fungus, from which a copious, thin, ichorous, and foetid discharge is constantly rendered. Bleeding in considerable quantity also ensues from time to time, and is with diffi- culty arrested by pressure and the application of matico. As the skin gives way, the masses of the morbid structure which protrude slough, and separate ; for a time the tumour may seem to have almost enucleated itself; but this illusory appearance of amendment is very speedily fol- lowed by fresh growth and further extension of the disease. The disease progresses most rapidly in young subjects. In middle life, so long as the tumour is occult, the skin unimplicated, and the diseased part carefully protected from injury, months or years may elapse before it terminates fatally ; but so soon as the open condition is reached, and the morbid structure commences to fungate and bleed, the fatal issue cannot be long delayed. If operations for scirrhus of the breast are for the most part followed by such unsatisfactory results as to lead to a careful selection of cases in which to recommend excision, still more must operative procedure be regarded as exceptional in cases of medullary disease. Any partial removal of the tumour will only make matters worse, by hurrying on the fatal progress of the disease; and a diffuse tumour, ill-defined cutaneous involvement, thickening in the axilla, enlargement of the lymphatics, a youthful patient, and rapid growth—plainly indicate that no operation should be attempted. When, also, the subjacent muscles are involved, when the open condition of the disease is attained, and the patient has a rapid pulse and a cachectic look, the operation, nnless to relieve pain, or to prevent death from hemorrhage, or to remove the horrible fcetor which makes the patient's existence a burden to her, is