565 COMPOUND DISLOCATION. especially in compound dislocation of the tibia, at the anlcle, or of the femur, at the knee-joint. Less tension ensues, space for the inflammatory tumescence being considerably enlarged; and, in consequence of the comparative absence of tension, the inflammatory process proves less severe, ami less destructive in its results. Eeduction having been duly effected, after excision of the ends of the bones, the wound is brought together; usually without sutures ; and retentive means, suited to the part, are carefully and lightly applied, as for compound fracture. Moderation of the inflammatory process, and prevention of other casualties, are also sought for in a similar way. In some cases, espe- cially after practising excision, we suc- ceed in arresting all inflammatory ex- cess ; the part speedily recovers, and a certain degree of mobility, where this is desirable, may easily enough be retained by the diligent use of passive motion. In other cases, where the bones have been reduced without removal of the protruding portion—and these consti- tute the minority—anchylosis results, after a tedious suppuration; perhaps accompanied with partial necrosis. Such stiffness, however, may be to a great extent atoned for, by increased play of a neighbouring joint; in the case of the ankle, for example, tarsal motion becoming unusually extensive. In other cases, as abeady stated, and these constitute the majority, when excision has not in the first instance been employed, amputation is demanded, to save life. Both compound dislocation and compound fracture are especially liable to occur to the intemperate ; and, in many cases, an apparently slight injury sufiices for the infliction—more particularly of the former accident. Delirium tremens, consequently, is apt to prove a sad compli- cation, supervening within a short time after the accident, and usually determining an early and fatal issue. Fig. 227. Subluxation, By this term is meant incomplete displacement of a joint; the arti- ulating surfaces remaining yet in partial apposition. It is not of requent occurrence. An example is, partial displacement of the head of he humerus on the coracoid process. The injury may also occur at the '^kle. It may also happen at the wrist; the bones of the fore-arm— or other, or both—being partially displaced towards the palmar pect. The causes, symptoms, and treatment, resemble those of dislocation j Fig. 227. Compound dislocation of the astragalus.—Sir A. Cooi'er.