212 NATURAL HEMOSTATICS. tion. At a more distant date, the like happens to the fibrinous product around ; the parts again become loose, and resume their normal texture. The arterial canal has already contracted, up to the nearest collateral branch; forming a narrow cone, the base of which is at the collateral branch, the apex at tlie arterial extremity. This cone narrows more and more ; ultimately the coats cohere, and the canal at that part may become wholly obhterated. Absorption continuing, the consolidated part shiinks to a mere thread. In the process of natural hemostatics—wonderfully adapted to the end in view—there may be observed a striking similarity to that whereby a broken bone is united. First, the effusion of blood, which coagulates; then the formation of organisable matter; absorption of the coagulum; confirmation of the new product, organised and vascularised—at first redundant in bulk; lastly, absorption of the adventitious structure, and restoration, more or less complete, of the normal state. In the case of a lacerated artery, natural hemostatics are more readily effected. The arterial coats do not afford an equal resistance to the lacerating force; but, giving way at diffe- rent times, have different relative posi- tions. The internal and middle coats give way first, and together, as if cut by a knife ; they remain coherent, and occupy their normal position. The ex- ternal coat affords most resistance, is most extended, and having at length given way does not again proportionately retract. So that the arterial orifice, as represented by the inner coats, is, in the case of laceration, doubly protected ; first, by a conical pouch formed by the external coat, stretched to a point before it has given way; and secondly, by the ordinary vacant space of the common sheath, should that remain, as an additional safeguard against bleeding. The existence of the latter, however, is not essential; the coagulation which forms within the stretched and funnel-shaped external coat forming a sufficient barrier against continuance of the arterial flow. In other respects, the process of occlusion is the same. When an artery is only iMrtiaUy divided, hemostatics are accom- phshed with greater difficulty. !N"either contraction nor retraction can occur. The wound tends to remain open ; and, if circulation be active— by reason of the size of the artery, or its propinquity to the heart—there is much risk of a fatal amount of loss, if I^ature's efforts be alone trusted to. And yet it is wonderful under what circumstances a suc- cessful issue sometimes does occur. Cases are well authenticated, in which the aorta, and even the heart itself, have been punctured; and yet the patients have survived. Syncope having occurred, a coagulum formed in the wound; .on occurrence of reaction the clot Avas not dis- Fig. 86. 1. Plan of retracted artery, after section ; a, tlie conical, contracted, and retracted arterial tube ; 5, the arterial sheath left vacant. 2. Plan of retracted artery, after laceration ; the middle and internal coats of the ai-tery; h, the extremity of external coat, forming a pouch, containing, c, the coagulum, which extends a .short way up the vessel.