DISLOCATION OF THE SPINE. 950 obvious prophylactic mcasuros; vvitli moderate antiplilogistics, should inflammatory symptoms exhibit themselves. The cougestiou of the face, however, which exists from imperfect respiratior^ in the case of fracture situated in the cervical, or high in the dorsal region, must be distin- guished fi'om the flushing of excessive reaction, eLse blood-letting may be had recourse to under circumstances when the patient had much better be left alone. Mitigation of the unpleasant results occurring in the digestive and urinary organs must be carefully attended to ; obtainmg regular and better movements of the bowels ; relieving the bladder by the catheter, at stated and frequent intervals ; and rectifying the state of the urine, by mineral acids and other medicinal means in ordinary use for that purpose. Ultimately—immediate danger having passed by—attention should be directed to amendment of circulation in the paralytic parts ; thus preventing shrinking by atrophy, and perhaps assisting in the recovery of function. The means usually employed to fulfil the last indication are, friction, shampooing, galvanism and electri- city, and the use of strychnia. Galvanism and electricity are to be used with caution, however; it being sometimes found that, although by means of these agents, muscular contractility may for a time be roused, yet the amendment is in general but temporary, and the parts ultimately lapse into even a worse degree of impotency. Counter-irritation is some- times of service. In the obviously displaced spinal fracture, with symptoms of com- pression of the cord, it has been proposed to employ the trephine, with the view of relieving the injured medullary matter. Reason and experi- ence, however, as abeady indicated, have decided against the procedure, even in the more hopeful condition of fracture through the laminae. It must, in the case of fracture of the bodies of the vertebras, where the compressing agent is usually the posterior part of the body of the bone— which, of course, cannot be reached and dealt with from behind—be worse than useless. Dislocation oftlie Spine. Dislocation of the spine, without fracture of the body or articulating processes, is a rare injury ; yet occurs, occasionally, in the cervical region ; possibly in the dorsal ;* certainly never, although cases have been sup- posed, in the lumbar region. It has happened by muscular power alone ; a maniac, for example, having so caused death by, as it were, forcibly throwing his head from him, during restraint in a paroxysm of excite- ment. More frequently it is the residt of violence applied from without; as by falls on the head or back of the neck when the head is bent back- wards ; sometimes, but rarely, it is produced by direct violence. Sus- pension sometimes causes it, but much more seldom than has been generally supposed ; for usually there is no displacement of the vertebraj, even in criminal cases—death taking place from other causes. The displacement may be forwards or backwards. That forwards may involve one or both of the articulating processes. "When both of these are displaced, the injury is said to be bilateral; when one only, unilateral; and of these the bilateral dislocation forwards is most common. * MfilcliioVi, Gaz. Medica Stati Sardi, 18.50.