1287 LIGATURE OF THE ILIACS. there a cliance of successful issue, the latter method, though the more difficult, should certainly be preferred. But, as it is, the direct mode is likely to be adopted, by any one who may find himself called upon to undertake so unpromising and serious a procediu-e. Before operating, if time and circumstances permit, the bowels should be opened by a warm purgative, so as to void both their gaseous and their solid contents. In performing the direct operation, a suitable incision is made to the left of the mesial line, commencing above the umbilicus, and terminating a little below it. Having reached the peritoneum by careful dissection, and opened up its cavity—using the probe-pointed bistouiy, guarded by the finger, to dilate the wound—the intestines are carefully pushed aside, the peritoneum is again divided, or scratched through with the finger nail, the vessel is exposed, and a ligature ap- plied. Aneurism of the Ahdominal Aorta itself is obviously remediable only by general treatment. In the nervous, hysterical, dyspeptic, and anemic, the affection is simulated by great abnormal pulsation in the course of the vessel It is known by distinct perception of a tumour, which is not movable; by observing that the tumour pulsates equally in all directions; by pulsation and bruit being limited to this one part of the vessel, not diffused equally along its course ; by the bruit being equally distinct ia the supine and in the erect postures; and by the pulsation being constant, not occasional and intermittent. At the same time it is right to state, that the diagnosis of abdominal aneurism, espe- cially in its incipient state, is often very obscure ; solid tumours, in the neighbourhood of the artery, partaking of the aneurismal characters very closely. The Iliacs. On account of inguinal aneurism, and aneurism affecting the common femoral artery, or its branches close to their origin—also on account of hemorrhage not otherwise repressible—the External Uiac may require deligation. Due systemic preparation having been made, the patient is placed recumbent, with the abdominal parietes relaxed by position; and the surgeon proceeds to operate, with the intention of securing the vessel without injury of the peritoneum. Many forms of incision have been proposed and followed. These are, however, referable to two types ; 1st, Mr. Abernethy's, parallel to the course of the vessel; and 2d, Sir A. Cooper's, parallel to Poupart's ligament. Lisfranc's modification of the latter is exact, and suitable; exposing the vessel readily enough; not calculated unnecessarily to weaken the abdominal parietes; and, at the same time, causing little risk to the spermatic cord and artery, or to the circumflex artery and vein. The knife is entered, two luies above, and an inch within, the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium; and, being carried downwards, nearly parallel to Poupart's ligament, the inci- sion is terminated at an inch above the level of the spine of the pubes, and about an inch and one-third on its external aspect—i.e., a little above, and about an inch to the outside of the external inguinal ring. By cautious dissection, the tendon and fibres of the external oblique where exposed are cut through, and the fibres of the internal obUquo