MELANOTIC CANCER. 192 connective tissue connected with the serous memhranes, and with the skin. Sometimes it is pure ; more frequently it is complicated ; and tlie morbid structure with wliich it is most frequently associated is the medul- lary. The external surface is of a shining and mottled appearance; the form is more or less globular, and lobulated; the size is seldom great, rarely indeed exceeding that of an egg ; often inconvenience is slight, and scarcely amounts to pain. The dark colouring matter is itself non-vai5cular. The stroma, in which it is imbedded, is fully vascularized; fibrous in character, and containing, as seen under the microscope, the ordinary varieties of the cancer-cell. The most frequent site is in the globe of the eye ; usually connected with medullary formation ; and perhaps the fre- quency of this site may be connected with the normal pigment of the choroid coat. The melanotic growth, when situated externally, foUows the ordinary course of the " tumor mali moris;" involves the skin, ulcerates, and discharges black matter, with a foetid sanious secretion. And by this time usually, the medullary structure has also been developed; giving to the sore more or less of a fungating character; involving the system in the wonted cachexy ; and dragging the surrounding parts into rapid assimi- lation of structure. The melanosis, though doubtless in itself neither simple in structure nor benign in tendency, yet is to be regarded as malignant chiefly on account of that tendency to associate with a more sinister formation, which it so strongly and almost invariably manifests. It seldom occurs but in those of mature age ; therein differing markedly from the simple cephaloma. A constitutional vice, doubtless, accom- panies ; but not so intense in itself, nor so obvious in its indications, as in the other malignant tumours; unless with one or other of these the melanosis be primarily combined. There is no hope of cure, but from free extirpation by the knife; and that at an early period, ere the medullary comphcation have begun to form. Eeturn, under such favourable circumstances, is less likely than in any other malignant disease. When complication has occurred, with either the scirrhous or the medullary formation, the minor is to be regarded as merged in the greater evO.; and the rules of treatment are to be enforced, as if the case were one of scirrhous, or of medullary tmnour, alone. 5. Colloid or Alveolar Cancer.—This is a disease more important to the physician than to the surgeon ; but as it sometimes occurs in the bones, mamma, and other external organs, it wiU be proper to give some account of it. In colloid cancer (xoXXri, glue), the meshes of the tumour are filled up by a matter like gelatine or half dissolved gum-arabic (half-set glue, half- trembling jelly), colourless, or of a sHghtly yellow hue, and to the naked eye conveying the impression of being devoid of all structure, but con- taining numerous microscopic cells, which present the usual characters of niahgnancy. Sometimes the colloid matter occurs in large masses, with very Uttle intervening fibrous tissue; sometimes, too, the cells are in small amount. Occasionally it occurs in cysts; and in this case is very doubtfully, if at all, cancerous. AVhen, on the other hand, it forms, as in the mamma and sometimes in the liver, in meshes composed of a ti.ssue