1276 PROLAPSUS OF THE UTERUS. and condensed ; and forms a large jjoucli, containing otLer viscera prolajDscd into it; in this state resembling an old and large hernia the contents of which can with difficulty, if at all, find room for return fb the abdominal cavity. In such cases, the protruded parts generally present large and -unhealthy patches of ulceration ; and the correspond- ing portions of tlie thighs are more or less irritated and excoriated. Prolapsus of the uterus is generally the cause of much undefined suffering in the region of the pelvis. Patients complain of distressing feelings of bearing down, weight in tlie perineum, dragging in the loins ; and there may be much disturbance, or even temporary arrest of the functions of the bladder and rectum. Often there is difficulty in walk- ing. In cases of complete descent, great uneasiness is of course pro- duced by friction of the thighs upon the tumour ; and the irritation caused by the trickling of urine over the parts is sometimes extreme— often ending in unhealthy ulcerations. There is also, occasionally, derangement of the functions of the stomach. The complaint is sometimes complicated by hypertrophy or tumours of the uterus or of the ovaries, by ascites, by polypus of the uterus, by leucorrhoea, by menorrhagia, or by calculus in the bladder. The objects of treatment are threefold. 1, To replace the organ ; 2, To retain it in its proper situation; and 3, To protect and support it when it is irreducible. The replacement, as abeady remarked, is frequently effected without aid, on the patient assuming the recumbent posture ; or, it may be done with more or less force directed agaiust the tumour, always in the direc- tion of that axis of the pelvis through which it is at the time passiug. If any difl&culty is apprehended, care must be taken to secure complete evacuation of the bladder and rectum before the attempt is made. Some- times, from the causes already enumerated, it is for the time at least irreducible. But continued maintenance of the horizontal position, and the use of local antiphlogistics if necessary, will generally restore reduci- bility. In some rare cases of long standing, the reduction, although easily enough effected, cannot be tolerated by the patient; and in others reduction is altogether impossible. When the case is recent, and produced by violence, simple reduction, with maintenance of the horizontal position for a few days, will be suffi- cient. In some examples, it is necessary, in addition to this, to use means to restore the tonicity and contraction of the relaxed and extensile vagina. Por this purpose, frequent irrigation of the canal with cold water, or continued iise of astringent ointments and lotions, is very serviceable. Attention must be at the same time paid to heal up ulcera- tion, and to remove leucorrhoea. In most cases, however, the iise of a pessary is required. It may be either worn constantly, except when removed for the sake of cleanliness for a few minutes ; or it may be laid aside during the night. It should always be as small as is consistent with efficiency ; the size ranging according to the conditions of the case. If the perineum is much injured, a bandage may be necessary to retain the pessary. And this must be kept clean, by removing and replacing it; with a frequency varied according to the material of which the pessary is made. A great deal has been mitten concerning the material