CURVATURK OF THE SPINE. 953 disease, usually produces considerable curvature of the spinal column in the dorsal region, with complimentary curves in the cervical and lumbar vertebrte ; this, of course, admits of no treatment. Bad habits of standuig, sitting, or reclining, in an awkward position, are very apt to cause a greater or less amount of lateral distortion in the yoimg. The spinal column is habitually thrown off its normal line of erection; and, in. course of time, both muscles and bones, growing accustomed to their abnormal position, may become confirmed in it. And thus great cm-vature may be established, without any actual vice in the skeleton, in the muscles, or in the general system. Obviously, there is one class of human beings much more than any other exposed to this form of disease; namely young girls occupied in the crowded details of an imprudently managed course of education. Young people of both sexes are also very hable to suffer, who are employed in sedentary occupations in trade; as in sewing, knitting, engraving, colouring, etc. The indications of treatment are plain; discontinuance of the hurtful habit or occupation; ample amount of exercise out of doors ; and a voluntary use of such gymnastic or other exercises as are calculated to produce a healthful play of the general muscular system, and more espe- cially of the muscles of the trunk and spine.* And by means of Hght articles of dress, fashioned and worn so as to attract the patient's notice to the threatened deformity, while at the same time they warn of the negligence or awkwardness which has led to it, disuse of the habits in question may be greatly favoured. By some, exercise of the trunk produced by the effort to elevate, by the hand on the opposite side to the curvature, a heavy weight attached to a cord running horizontally over a pulley, has been found to act correctively on the curve.t All cumbrous apparatus—in the shape of stays, or other machinery—are plainly to be avoided, as certain to prove hurtful. Hitherto we have spoken of simple deformity of the spine, due to no disease in it, but simply constituting a natural effort to correct or atone for certain conditions of deformity situated elsewhere. Now we have to do with disease. This form of distortion, occurring as it uniformly does, in young persons of the female sex, between the ages of seven and twenty years, is undoubtedly due to two causes—one, a softened con- dition of the bones constituting the vertebral column; the other, debility of the muscles which support, move, and control the trunk and spine. "Without a softened condition of the bones, we have undoiibtedly seen that curvature may occur; but such distortion is slight comparatively, and never greater than to be commensurate to the cause which calls it into action. In the disease we are now considering, these exciting causes also exist, and are apparently much of the same kind as those we have already described; but they produce a more decided influence both as regards continuance and degree of effect, simply because the osseous tissue of the spinal column is softened by certain predisposing circumstances, which must be taken into account in considering the treatment of this affection. Of these, unduly rapid groivth—a flabby, soft relaxed, habit— and fjeneral debility, however induced, are frequent causes of lateral * Sir B. Brodie, Lancet, No. 1218, p. 3, et seq. t Dr. Brown of Boston, U. S. Lancet, No. 1329, p. 178.