TREATMENT OF NECROSIS. 310 dead portion or portions are then ascertained; and if the natural opening ailbrd space enough, tlirough this forceps are introduced, and the seques- truni seized and extracfee(l. It usually liappens, however, tliat t]ie natural openings are not sufficient; the sequestrum proving large, and having become on all sides invested hy stout cortical formation. It may be necessary, therefore, either to divide the sequestrum in the middle, and extract it in two or more pieces, or to convert two cloaca into one, l)y the saw or cutting pliers. Or one cloaca, whether in old or new bone, may be enlarged to the required extent, by the cutting pliers, or more suitably, in most cases, by the trephine. In aU cases, however, let as little of the new bone be sacrificed as possible. For, once removed, it will be but sparingly reproduced; and the limb, in consequence, may be permanently and unsafely weakened, as well as deformed. The sequestrum having been duly exposed, the laying hold of it comes to be of some consequence. Forceps are the best adapted instru- ment j but, in general, they are used much too small and feeble. The common dressing forceps, as found in the ordinary pocket case, are quite unsuitable ; except for very small sequestra, wholly unconfined by cortical formation. Strong blunt pliers, made for the piu-pose, should be em- Fig. 129. ployed; Hke bell-hanger's pliers, only longer in both blade and handle, with the former well serrated to prove surely prehensile, and powerful in every part. By means of these the dead portion is firmly grasped, and moved to and fro, so as to ensure its freedom from the surrounding sub- stitute. Then, by a steady pull, it is brought to the surface; leverage power being used, if need be, to break up any further obstacle which may obstruct its final removal. Such determined procedure saves pain, time, blood, and trouble. For the smaller and w^eaker instrument is prone to slip ; only after repeated efforts is anything like a secure hold obtained by it; and thus often much wriggling and real force are required, to overcome unexpected obstacles by unequal means. When the seques- trum is long, and the main aperture leads to its middle rather than to either extremity, extraction, as we have said, is often much facilitated by cutting through its centre with the bone pliers, and then extractuig each portion separately. In otheir cases, again, when the whole thickness of the bone, and a considerable extent of its shaft, are involved, oj^erative interference may very generally be delayed for some time after separation has become complete, until we ascertain that the substitute bone has been formed to such an extent as to prevent the risk of collapse of the thickened periosteum. Thus, then, the errors most likely to occiu", in the manual treatment of necrosis, are these :—too early an interference, ere the natural process Fig. 129. Forceps suitable for removing sequestra.