DISEASE OF THE RIBS. 965 it rarely makes its way througli the Lone ; usually mauit'esting itself on one side, between the costal cartilages, where a sufficient aperture of escape Ccxn easily be afforded by means of the bistoury. The only cir- cumstances which might justify trephining would be punctured fractures of the bone, as after sword or gunshot wound, with lodgment of a foreign body, or of fragments of the broken bone—followed by unmistakeable signs of suppuration ; or cases of abscess of the mediastinum pointing in the root of the neck and remaining obstinately open, Avhile a probe could be passed downwards for some six or eight inches behind the bone. In cases of abscess forming over the sternum, which, when opened, disclose an aperture in the bone from which pus continues to be discharged, such opening will usually be found to consist of carious bone, and to be the originating cause of the abscess. Should this be the case, the diseased bone may be removed by the gouge, if it resist constitutional treatment. When, however, the opening is a smoothly-rounded cloaca, and the pus seems to collect within, there is no reason why a more free escape should not be afforded by the trephine. Abscess in the Axilla may be due to some internal cause not easily recognisable; as, for example, when it succeeds to typhoid fever or scarla- tina. In most cases, however, it results from some peripheral irritation communicated by the lymphatics of the arm, which are then tumid and marked by red lines on the surface of the integument of the forearm and arm. Whitlow, onychia, and poisoned wounds affecting the fingers, are among the most common of these sources of the evil; and irritation of the mamma or nipple in the female may produce a similar effect. The abscess may either be acute or clironic, and in either case always requires surgical assistance for its evacuation; as the fascia of the floor of the axilla opposes a steady resistance to the matter reaching the surface, and the abscess tends to burrow deeply upwards, as also backwards beneath the scapula. In opening such abscesses, the parts of importance lie to the outer side of the axillary space, close to the coraco-brachialis muscle ; our incision should therefore be made in the apex of the cavity, midway between the anterior and posterior folds of the axilla, and near its thoracic boundary. Having reached the collection of matter, the incision should be extended outwards, so as to afford a free escape for the contents of the sac. Of course, in scrofulous abscesses, the opening should be delayed as in other similar cases. After the matter has been evacuated, the great indication is to keep the forearm supported in a sling, and the arm steadily affixed to the side, so as to prevent all movement, which in this situation tends to oppose speedy cicatrization. Further, in these cases, a good nourisliing and stimulating diet will usually be indicated by the condition of the patient. If a sinus remain, without disease of bone, or the presence of a foreign body to account for its persistence, warm sea-bathing, stimulating injections, and change of air, with cod liver oil, should be employed. Hernia of the Lung, or Pneumocele. Tliis affection may be : 1. Congenital, from defective development ot the thoracic parictes : 2. Traumatic, a wound having left a portion of