316 RICKETS. ossium, on the contrary, the bones are of their natural bulk and proper- tion; and if their " various doublings were unfolded," the pelvis would be restored to its normal dimensions and form. The cause of mollities ossium is involved in obscurity. Loss of blood, mercurialism, and whatever depresses constitutional power, are believed to predispose towards its occurrence. It is most common in the large manu- facturing towns in England. In th case of Madame Supiot—a memorable example—the eating of much salt was a prominent peculiarity, which somi were inclined to specify as a cause; but it seems to have been rather au accessory of the general perverted state, than its origin. In some cases, the deficiency of calcareous matter in the bones seems to be accompanied with a copious deposit of it in the tissues of the lungs and stomach. The disease is, according to present experience, incurable. As in other affections of a like nature, little more can be effected, in treatment, than palliation of the more prominent and distressing symptoms. EICKETS. As formerly remarked, this is a vice of the skeleton peculiar to early years. "In some instances, it has begun immediately after birth. It rarely, however, appears before the fifth or sixth month; and the most frequent period of its observed commencement is between eighteen and . twenty-four months;"* in other words about the time when the cliild begins to walk. A rickety bone has three characteristics : 1st. The shaft is shortened; 2d, The epiphyses are enlarged; 3d. The normal . curvatures are increased. Furthermore, this condition is attended, from i the first, by a marked cachexy of system, which seems to be identical 1 with the scrofulous. Usually, however, this becomes abated, after a » time; even independently of remedial treatment. And cotemporaneously with amendment of the general health, the abnormal condition of bone . -also disappears ; a fact which has most important bearing on the treat- - ment, and which should therefore be borne constantly in remembrance. The bone is found to be abnormally developed. The process consists : essentially not in a softening of the old bone, but in the non-soHdifica- tion of the fresh layers as they form. The old layers being converted into medullary substance, by the normal progressive formation of medullaiy cavities, while the new layers remain soft, the bone becomes brittle. In a section of such a bone meduUary substance, cartilage, calcified cartilage, * Stanley on the Bones, p. 218. Fig. 130. Madame Supiot; in a postiu'e quite practicable iu an advanced stage of the di.sease. Fig. 130.