1288 LlGATL'liE OF THE ILIAGS. and ti-ansversalis aro divided as near the anterior superior iliac spine and Poupart's ligament as possible, till the fatty texture, which always exists there, is seen shining through tlie transversalis fascia; the finger is then introduced beneath the remaining muscular fibres, and they aro divided with a probe-pointed bistoury. Tlie transversalis fascia is scratched through with the point of the knife—near its upper ex- tremity, where inserted into the iliac spine and Poupart's hgament, as an areolar interval here separates the fascia from the peritoneum; and, the finger having been introduced through the aperture, on this the rest of the fascia is divided in safety. The bag of peritoneum, further separated from the fascia iliaca, is pushed to the inner side; and is held out of the way by the fingers of an assistant, or by means of a flat copper spatula, or by a hook made for the purpose. The inner border of the psoas muscle is traced with the finger; and the artery will be detected by its pulsation there. The vein is foimd on the inner side, and is cautiously separated by the finger nail, or by the point of the knife ; the artery is then more fully isolated, by the same means ; and the aneurism needle is passed from the inner side. The wound is managed in the ordinary way; by position of the trunk and limbs, abdominal relaxation is maintained; and the whole abdominal contents are supported, especially if the patient sufi'ers from a cough, by means of a firmly-pinned binder. This operation is, in general, easily performed; unless when great obesity is encoimtered; and is, perhaps, the most successful of its class. In aneurism, the point for securing the vessel must necessarily vary ac- cording to the bulk and site of the tumour.* The Internal Iliac was first tied by Stevens of Vera Cru^ in 1812, on account of gluteal aneiuism in a negress. This vessel may requu-e deligation on account of aneurism of its branches ; and the operation has also been resorted to on accoimt of hemorrhage from these. Bleeding from deep perineal wounds, for example, may possibly not otherwise be restrained. And in false aneurism of the gluteal or ischiatic arteries, this operation is by some considered preferable to direct incision of the tumour. The securing of the vessel is attended with about the same amount of difficulty and hazard as obtains in the case of the common iliac artery. The patient having been j)laced as before, an incision is begun over the middle of Poupart's ligament, and carried upwards, as in the line of the former incision, to the extent of three, four, or five inches; the extent varying according to the contemplated dej)th of the vessel, and always leaning rather to the side of unnecessary ampHtude. The com- parative length of the external wound, intrinsically, will have but little effect on the success of the operation; and yet it has a most important bearing on it, according as it facilitates, or impedes, the accomplish- ment of exposiure and deligation. The abdominal muscular layers having been cut through, the transversalis fascia having been divided, and the peritoneum having been pushed aside, as previously directed, * When aneurism involves the external iliac up to or beyond its origin, it has been suggested by Mr. Syme that the sac should be laid open extra-peritoneally, the aorta being meanwhile compressed, and the vessels tied where they enter the sac. In two examples he has carried this proposal into execution.