1330 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANKLE. of the fibula. It may also occur independently of fracture; but then tlio fibula is usually displaced along witli it; and the case is one of luxa- tion of both bones,* The tibia rests on the upper surfaces of the navi- cular and internal cuneiform bones, and on a small part of the anterior surface of the astragalus. The foot is fixed, and appears much shortened; the heel is proportionately elongated ; the toes are pointed downwards; there is a marked depression in front of the tendo Achillis ; and the end of the tibia is felt to be resting on the middle of the tarsus. Treat- ment is as in the former case ; a splint being applied on each aspect of the limb, A minor form of the injury may occur ; the end of the tibia resting partly on the navicular bone, and partly on the astragalus. III. Dislocation of the Tibia outwards.—In this case, the fibula is associated in the displacement; and both bones form a manifest projec- tion on the outer aspect of the joint. The foot is turned inwards, its outer edge resting on the ground ; and the toes are pointed downwards. The internal malleolus is obliquely fractured and detached. Treatment is as in the other cases. But especial watchfulness is necessary, as to the consequences ; this form of injury being always the result of much violence, and inflammatory mischief being consequently apt to ensue. rV. Dislocation of the Tibia bachwards is extremely rare. Tlae end of the bone rests on the os calcis, in front of the insertion of the tendo Achillis ; the heel is shortened, and the foot is proportionately elongated. The foot has also been found forced upwards between the tibia and fibula ; these having separated. But this may be regarded as merely an aggravation of dislocation of the tibia inwards. The treatment is still by extension of the foot, during flexion of the leg; and by the application of lateral splints. V. Compound Dislocation of the Ankle.—This is the most common of the compound dislocations of joints ; and, although it may occur out- wards, usually takes place inwards. The patient having fallen forcibly, with the foot everted, the end of the tibia is driven through the integu- ments on the inner aspect of the joint; and protrudes to a greater or less extent. Even in extreme cases, the posterior tibial artery generally escapes untorn. When the dislocation occurs outwards, the end of the fibula is usually broken off, and displaced along with the foot. This accident may occur to any one ; but is especially frequent in adults of advanced years and intemperate habits; and, in these, but a shght amount of violence would seem to sufi&ce for its infliction. The compli- cation of delirium tremens is not unfrequent. Although reduction may be effected as in the simple form, and sub- sequent treatment, conducted according to general principles, may result in preserving a limb both seemly in appearance and useful to the patient, such a result must be regarded as rather exceptional. Accordingly, Sir Astley Cooper recommended immediate amputation as expedient; " when the ends of the tibia and fibula are very much shattered ; when, in addi- tion to the compound dislocation of these bones, some of the tarsal bones are displaced and injured ; when one or other of the tibial arteries is * I have seen the tibia displaced forwards and inwards—^the dislocation all but compound—while the fibula remained not only in its place, but entire.