ENLARGED TROSTATE. 1128 an artificial aperture bo deferred, the abscess may open into the urethra favouring the formation of a urinous abscess; or into the rectum, establishing a troublesome recto-vesical fistula; or outwardly by the perineum, after much injury has been done to the intervening tissues. Spontaneous evacuation into the urethra is indicated by copious purulent discharge from the penis. And then it is advisable to use a catheter, gently introduced, as often as may be necessary to empty the badder— for some days—so as to prevent, if possible, untoward entrance of urine through the ulcerated part; or a soft elastic catheter may be passed and retained. Chronic suppuration of the prostate has been observed, causing much distress, with discharge of muco-purulent urine. On examination by the rectum, a soft point has been felt in the gland; and, on pressing it, matter has escaped by the urethra. The plunge of a lancet or trocar, into the soft point, has given relielj and troublesome fistula has not fol- lowed. Shnple Enlargement of the Prostate. Simple enlargement of the prostate is of two kinds; one the result of chronic prostatitis ; the other hypertrophy, independent of the inflam- matory process ; the one not uncommon in the adult of middle age, the other peculiar to advanced years. The former variety is dependent on stricture, or gleet, or aff'ection of the rectum, or injury of the perineum by habitual horse exercise; and disappears, usually, on removal of its cause. If not, recumbency is to be maintained, a few leeches are applied to the perineum, these are followed by smart counter-irritation, and, at the same time, internal use of the iodide of potassium may be of service. The bowels are kept gently open, by simple laxatives and enemata. In obstinate cases, an alterative course of mercury is expe- dient ; and, under this, amendment is sometimes both rapid and satis- factory. Hypertrophy of the gland is usually regarded as but one of the many signs of senile degeneracy in the frame. As the eyes grow dim, the trunk bends, the cartilages ossify, and the arteries change in their coats—so the prostate is supposed to grow large and hard. The en- largement may be uniform, the whole gland seeming to expand equally; displacing the urethra as well as compressing it and consequently inter- fering with its function in regard to the urine. Or the central portion may enlarge, with greater rapidity than the rest of the gland; rising like a mam miliary process ; projecting backwards into the bladder ; but, ever and anon, hable to move forwards, and so to act as an occluding valve to the outlet of the cavity. In general, the lateral lobes enlarge unequally ; and consequently a twist is given to the prostatic portion of the urethra, in the lateral as well as in the vertical direction. In some cases, the enlarged condition of the prostate is due to the formation within its structure of fibrous tumours exactly resembhng those whicli occur in the uterus, and ranging in size from a pea up to a walnut, but rarely larger than a filbert. The symptoms of this simple hypertrophy are—increasing slowness and difficulty in making water, xmeasiness and difficulty in emptying the