1251 PAIUPIIYMOSIS. both the mucous mombrcono and skin of the orifice of the prepuce, on each side, to the extent of about a quarter of an inch—thus forming a square- mouthed opening to the pouch—should be preferred. A single stitch, I uniting the skin and mucous membrane at the angle of junction in each : incision, is all that is afterwards required. In operating for phymosis, ' in any way, the small arteries which bleed should be carefully secured by torsion—or, if need be, by ligature—else copious hemorrhage may take place externally, or with a more troublesome result into the loose areolar ; tissue of the foreskin and penis. I Faraphymosis. ] A tight preputial orifice, reflected behind the glans, and permitted i to remain there, constricts the body of the organ, and gives rise to very I unpleasant consequences. The superficial areolar tissue of the penis swells greatly, behind the constriction; while the pouting mucous mem- brane of the interior of the foreskin, becoming evolved, forms a brawny collar behind the glans. Between the two swellings the constriction lies concealed; the glans also becomes tumid; and an acute inflamma- tory process is kindled, under unfavourable circumstances—the strangu- lated parts, especially when these happen to be the site of chancres or of simple ulceration, being obviously ill provided with the power of resistance or control. There is the same necessity for relief, as in the case of strangulated hernia, so far as the preservation of structure is concerned; and this is sought in the same way. Eeduction is generally practicable, in recent cases. The patient having been laid recumbent, and the parts having been well oiled, the surgeon grasps the glans with the fingers of the right hand, and makes steady pressure thereon, pxishing it steadily from him ; at the same time, with the fingers of the left hand, he draws forward the constricting orifice ; his object being to push the glans, diminished by pressure, through the narrow pre- putial aperture. In other cases, where the constriction is greater, intro- duciag the nails of the fore, middle, and ring fingers of both hands into the sulcus between the two swellings, the firm collar of the everted mucous membrane is steadily supported, while the thumbs are employed to force and knead the turgid glans under cover of the prepuce. To secure the compression of the glans more thoroughly, a piece of tape, about an inch in breadth and about a foot in length, is employed. An aperture is made lengthwise in the centre of the tape, through which one end is passed ; the glans is now encircled with the loop^, while the extre- mities are wound round the little fingers, so that, during flexion of the^e, t he glans sliall be laterally compressed and elongated, so as more readily to recede within the constricted orifice of the prepuce (Garcia Thir^sa*); or compression of the glans may first be eff"ected by means of a strip of adhesive plaster, about half a yard long and a quarter of an inch wide, applied forcibly around the glans—beginning behind at the furrow, and terminating near the orifice of the urethra (Van Dommelen). Guerin of Brussels invented a pair of spoon-bladed forceps, by which the glans could be seized, compressed, and pushed within the preputial covering. * Eevue de Th6r. Med. Chinirg., Yeh. 15, 1860.