352 REPAIR OF CARTILAGE. erosion more or less bevelled and smooth. 2. When destruction is more extensive, the chasm may be partially filled up by a fibrous cicatricial structure. 3. When disintegration has penetrated to the bone, the cicatrix is formed, in some cases, by this texture, and osseous nodules occupy the exposed part. These do not rise so as to fill the chasm, but remain limited and low, becoming smooth, and rounded off or porcellanous on their surface. 4. Or there may be no depression, there having been no destructive disintegration. The place of the cartilage has simply been taken by a hard amorphous substance, like ivory, which presents a surface as smooth and fine as porcelain. This, though wanting the elasticity of cartilage, is yet a wonderfully efficient substitute. 5. Or the healing process may be of a fifth kind. Often deep erosions of cartilage exist at opposite and corresponding points of the articulation. From these, fibrous or osseous reproductions coalesce, causing fixity of the joint by anchylosis. Sometimes death of cartilage, in continuous mass, complicates and aggravates the process of disintegration. In such cases, doubtless, the initiative has been in the subjacent bone—or, rather, in the articular lamella, wliich, becoming rapidly disintegrated, leaves the cartilage loose and undermined—like skin sloughing after ulcerative destruction of its subjacent areolar tissue. By continuance of the loss of substance beneath, the dead portion is ultimately detached by marginal separation; and, becoming loose in the joint, adds to the mischief already there the stimulus of extraneous matter within an inflamed and suppurating cavity, The symptoms of such change of structure in articular cartilage are very distinct from those of affection of the synovial membrane. With ordinary care, they need never be confounded. As already stated, in the advanced stage of joint-disease, when all textures are involved, it may be difficult to tell from present symptoms the original and chief seat of the malady; but while the morbid process is advancing in one texture, and . as yet limited to that, the diagnostic signs of its presence and nature are i usually plain enough. Be it remembered, however, that the symptoms t of destruction of cartilage, although indicative of that pathological change, , are not always a test of its amount, because not uniformly proportioned I to it. They rather indicate the amount of disease in which the other r textures of the joint have become involved. The symptoms are found to accord with the chain of pathological events formerly stated. At first there is dull uneasiness in the part— and sometimes hardly that—with some impairment of motion ; but with- out swelling or other apparent change of structure. This state may con- tinue for days, or even weeks, with but little change. Then the uneasy feelings become more marked, and are aggravated nocturnally. When bone is reached, by perforation, or original implication,—or synovial tex-: ture, or perichondrium, by lateral extension—the pain is undoubted; deep, constant, worst at night; sometimes referred by the patient to one particular spot deep in the joint, and likened to the unceasing gnawin of an animal there. Acuter pain comes with the advance of the inflam- matory process towards its crisis, and keeps pace with it. It is aggm- vated by motion, more especially if great and sudden ; and, on gentle movement of the part, a grating sensation is ultimately perceived, in con- sequence of exposure of opposing points of bone. Very frequently sym-