FLAP AMPUTATION 1349 ill order to avoid cross-cutting of the integument, wliich is otherwise apt to occur. And, the second transfixion having "been effected, a second flap is formed posteriorly. This is quickly laid hold of by the assistant's other hand ; and he now retracts both flaps ; pulling steadily; and keeping his own fingers out of the way. The surgeon, by circular sweeps made with the heel of his knife, divides the soft paits completely, as high as the fleshy commissure of the flaps will permit; effecting this leisurely and coolly, in order that it may be done thoroughly, Not even a shi'ed of periosteum should be left at the point which is to be sawn ; and this should be as close to the adherent cushion of muscle above as the instrument can be made to go. The form of the wound—the flaps uiiretracted—is wedge-shaped ; and the sawn end of the bone must occupy the very apex of the cone. The assistant continuing to keep the flaps out of harm's way, the saw is applied to the isolated portion of bone—the side of the instru- ment lying close upon the fleshy wall above. The rapidity and brilliancy in execution of the double flap opera- tion by transfixion, as practised by Lisfranc and Liston, commended it no less to the profession than to the public. To the latter, especially before the days of chloroform, rapidity formed a great element in the preference shewn for this mode of procedure. The result, however, of the double flap, formed by transfixion, has not been in all cases uniformly satisfactory; the stump formed by a well-performed circular operation, sometimes forming a more useful covering to the end of the bone. At the same time, the flap operation is certainly an easier method of making a good stump than the circular, in the hands of one unaccustomed to operate. The objections to it are—1st, the great degree of retraction of the mus- cular elements of the stump, and consequent tendency to protrusion of the end of the bone; and 2d, that in primary operations the mass of muscle is usually so disproportionate to the flaps, that it can with diffi- culty be contained within them. Attempts have been made to obviate the former evil by cutting both flaps of great length, or by making the one corresponding to the flexor muscles, and thus most likely to contract inordinately, some inches longer than the other. To meet the other dis- advantage in primary amputations, the flaps may be formed entirely, or nearly so, of skin and areolar tissue cut from without inwards, and turned up while the muscles are either cut slopingly, or divided circularly. More recently, however, a new method of amputating has been intro- duced by Mr. Teale, called the plan by rectangular flap. Mr. Teals speaks as follows :—* " Supposing the amputation to take place at the lower part of the middle third of the thigh, a situation well suited for the adaptation of an artificial leg, the circumference of the hmb is to be measured at the point where the bone is to be divided. Assuming this to be sixteen inches, the long flap is to have its length and breadth each equal to half the circumference, namely, eight inches. Two longitudinal lines of this extent are then traced on the limb, and are met at their lower points by a transverse line of the same length. The inner longitudinal line should * On amputation by a long and short rectangular flap, by Thos. P. Teale, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to the Leeds General Infirmary, 1858.