CALCULUS IN THE FEMALE. 1107 foreign matter from Avitliout; and these substances may be of bulk and form not favourable to extrusion under any circumstances ; bodkiiis, pencils, glass stopi)ers, coal, sandstone, etc. When a stone does form, and remains, the symptoms it occasions are quite analogous to those in the male. Perquisition is made by a short, straight, steel staff, slightly curved at the extremity. And a stone, hav- ing been found, may generally be got rid of without incision. The urethra admits of gi'eat dilatation ; and if this be done gradually, but little pain is caused. Sponge-tent, Weiss's metallic dilator, or Arnott's fluid dilator, may be employed. And a sufficiency of space having been so obtained, forceps or a scoop are introduced, and the stone removed. The risk is that, in consequence of the dilatation, power of retention may be seriously impaired, and more or less inconvenience by incontinence of urine may result. Lithotripsy was at one time considered unsuitable to the female ; but experience has shown that it is fully as applicable as to the male—the shortness and amplitude of the urethra favouring, indeed, the introduc- tion and efficient play of the instruments. Subsequent expulsion of the fragments, too, is more easy and safe.* If the stone be found of larger size than to pass by dilatation alone, and if hthotripsy should not be considered advisable, the knife is to be used—sparingly. A straight staff on the finger is introduced along the urethra ; on it a probe-pointed straight bistoury is passed j and the ' urethra is notched, upwards and outwards, on each side—the knife's edge being chiefly appHed at the neck of the bladder. Dilatation is then resumed ; and extraction effected. "Where, however, the calculus has attained a size too great to admit of extraction through a curved in- cision of the neck of the bladder, the urethra and vagina may be laid into one, affording space for the removal of a calculus of any size. The incision should be afterwards treated upon the same principle as if it were a vesico-vaginal fistula, by approximating its raw surfaces by means of silver sutures. A stone has made its spontaneous exit from the female bladder, into the vagina, by ulceration. Sometimes calculous matter collects at the lower part of the orifice of the female urethra ; forming a concretion, of greater or less size, I which becomes imbedded in a partial dilatation of the canal—bulging into the vagina. The urine passes over it, freely but painfully ; it may produce most of the ordinary symptoms of stone ; yet, from its lateral and sacculated position, it may be overlooked in the introduction of a sound. It is a good rule, therefore, in cases of suspected stone in the female, to direct our attention to this part, after the bladder has been explored unsuccessfully. * CiviALE, Traite Pratique et Historique de la Lithotritie, Paris, 1847.