1094 LITHOTOMY, tion of such a limited wound as now described, ample space is afforded for the introduction and play of forceps, and for the extraction of ordi- nary calculi.* Large stones require particular expedients, to be after- wards explained. In fact, the rule in this lateral opei'ation is, to have a free external wound, and a small internal one ; the latter, when dilated, extending from the point of puncture in the membranoiis portion of the urethra, to the base of the prostate ; the former varying in extent accord- ing to circumstances; always large and free, and largest when either a deep perineum, or a bulky stone is expected to be encountered ; for, the yielding of the surface both gives room and diminishes depth, in the work of extraction, as well as in the formation of the deep wound. In withdrawing the knife, some little care is necessary, lest the edge should inadvertently come too near the ramus of the ischium, and endanger the pudic artery. The making of the deep wound requii'es deliberation and care ; and it is expedient that the points of the finger and of the knife should move together, in order to secure exactness. In athletic adults, naturally of a deep perineum, and who are not in a state of ansesthesia, difficulty may be experienced at this stage by a straining of the muscles, whereby the bladder is elevated in the pelvis, and the parts consequently removed from the control of the finger. Under such circumstances, it were rash to proceed with the knife alone. The operator must withdraAv this; and, keeping his finger in the deep wound, he should wait patiently until the straining or spasm has ceased ; estabhshing the full influence of the chloroform; or reasoning with the patient on the projiriety of his being as passive as possible—if he be not anaesthetized; and resuming the operation, when the parts to be cut are again found to be within his fijiger's reach. While the forefinger dilates the deep wound, the urine escapes more or less rapidly ; and we expect that the stone, descending in consequence, will be distinctly felt. Then the staff is gently withdrawn ; by means of the finger moving in contact, a more precise idea of the nature of the stone or stones is obtained—as to size, niunber, shape, and position; and to the circumstances thus ascertained, the subsequent proceedings are adapted. If, for example, the stone be found of larger size than what the surgeon knows will pass readily through the aperture he has already made, an addition of space may be gained, without tear- ing, and without the division of any parts which it is expedient to retain entire—by passing a straight probe-pointed bistoury over the fore-finger retained in the wound, dividing the prostatic region of the urethra on the right side, to the same extent as on the left, and then renewing dilatation. When the stone is expected to be of consider- able size, the surgeon should be prepared to adopt this bilateral inci- sion from the first. The wound being deemed sufficient, and the finger being in contact * Too sparing a wound of the prostate is also to be avoided ; otherwise sufficient space can be obtained only by tffflring. A dense unyielding structure, demonstrated by Listen, Syme, and others, at the posterior pai-t of the ghand, must be divided, in order to admit of ea.sy dilatation. Vide Liston's Tract. Surgery, last edition, p. 510 ; also Lancet, No. 1132, p. 515, May 10, 1845.