1254 MALIGNANT DISEASE. to occur at every part; but permanent closure may ultimately be ob- tained, either by repetition of the operation at the unclosed points, or by occasional application of the galvanic cautery wire. Imperfoi'ote Urethra. A congenital malformation, in this respect, is obviously to be remedied in but one way ; by endeavouring to find the canal, near the orifice, by an incision carefully made in the lower part of the glans penis. Where a membranous fold seems to occlude the opening, a Bowman's canaliculus-director should be passed through this, and the necessary division of the tissues efiected upon it as a guide. Where such in- cision fails to discover the urethra, it may be opened further back ; but at the worst, the distended bladder having been recognised by the finger passed np the rectum, an incision, made in the middle line of the per- ineum in front of the anus and extending as high as the apex of the prostate, wiU enable the surgeon to relieve the retention, and even to pass an instrument forwards along the urethral canal, so that an anterior opening may be made where this is found to terminate. In all these opei a- tions, the artificially constructed part of the canal must be kept pervious, by the lodgment of a catheter—changed occasionally to prevent the accumulation of calculous incrustratiou. Malignant Disease of the Penis. This is found only in the aged; and frequently, as abeady stated, it may be traced to the irritation of congenital phymosis; beginning in the preputial orifice, by ulceration, and extending thence to the body of the organ—or, it may be, beginning in the glans itself. The glans is en- larged, indurated, and converted into an irregular cauliflower-looking tuberous surface—epithelioma. The portion longest afi'ected by the disease becomes ulcerated, and discharges a copious foetid sanies; the body of the penis suifers likewise ; the lymphatics on the dorsum swell and harden ; the glands of the groin are involved j retention of urine may ensue, by obstruction near the orifice, or by pressure of the secon- dary tumours on the neck of the bladder ; the cachexy advances; and the patient perishes—his end perhaps hastened by hemorrhage from the open and deep cancer. Nothing but the knife can afi'ord a chance of cure. .When the pre- puce alone is afi'ected, its removal is sufiicient. Sometimes a mahgnant ulcer attacks the integument of the body of the penis, originating there \ it may be long and successfully resisted in its advance, by the dense fibrous fascia which invests the organ subintegumentally ; and in such a case, removal of the afi'ected surface by dissection may suflSce. When the glans and body are involved, nothing short of amputation of the entire thickness afi'ords a prospect of cure—cutting in sound parts, between the disease and the symphysis pubis ; and the attempt is war- rantable, only when as yet the lymphatics show no sign of implication. When the glands are already enlarged, there is nothing left in our power but palHation ; and, as formerly stated, punctui"e of the bladder above