CHAPTER XVII. AFJ^ECTIONS OF THE LYMPHATICS. Angeioleucitis. Angeioleucitis, or Lymphangitis, is of very frequent occurrence. It may appear without any appreciable cause ; more commonly it is the result of external injury. The superficial lymphatics are most frequently involved And the inflammatory process seems, in the great majority of cases, to be connected with absorption of deleterious matter; either from Avithout, or generated in the part as a product of disease. If a wound exist it becomes inflamed; and the affection has a ten- dency to the erysipelatous character. Painful sensations shoot upwards; and streaks or bands, of a bright redness, appear on the previously sound skin ; not necessarily continuous with the original inflammatory process, but perhaps at some distance from it; tortuous, irregular, aiid intersect- ing each other, so as to form small islets of skin yet unaff'ected; follow- ing the course of the superficial lymphatics ; and dependent on an ery- thematous condition of the skin above the inflaming vessels. Sometimes the limb presents an appearance as if attacked by slight erysipelas, at many unconnected points. The pain is hot and burning, and increased by pressure ; and the Ij'^mphatic vessels feel hard and corded. The gene- ral swelling is usually considerable, often great; and afibrds a spongy sensation. The red streaks extend upwards, often with much rapi- dity ; sometimes continuous throughout, but quite as frequently shewing portions of skin apparently unaffected. The gangha, in their course, become involved; and swell acutely and joainfully. Very frequently erysipelas supervenes; the distinct streaks of the angeioleucitis then becoming merged in the general and continuous redness of the new disease. According to some pathologists erythema and erysipelas are only forms of the inflammatory process affecting the terminal lymphatics of the surface. If this really be the case, the conjunction of angeioleucitis and erysipelas need be no wonder. The constitutional symptoms are usually ushered in Avith rigors, and at first evince the true inflammatory type. Sometimes a simply febrile state, as in erysipelas, precedes the appearance of local disorder. As the latter advances, the inflammatory type of the constitutional symptoms is more or less rapidly departed from; and, in the great majority of cases, at all severe, the irritative or typhoid characters are ultimately developed. Sometimes such is the type of the general disorder from the beginning; dependent partly on previous wealaiess of system ; partlj^, as in all ad- vanced cases of the disease, on the introduction of deleterious matter into the circulating system—a product of the inflammatory process.