THE INDOLENT SORE. Fig. 28. IIG sium is given in full and sustained doses ; and ordinary stimulant treat- ment is applied to the Aveak sores. Under the internal remedy, rapid amendment and cure often talce place. But, once healed, the difficulty remains, as in the scrofulous sore—to prevent relapse. And to meet this indication, constitutional management is again paramount. The principal points of difference between this and the preceding class of sore, are—the absence of tubercular formation; the initiatory inflammatory process a simple one; the originating presence of the mer- curial, syphilitic, or mercurio-syphilitic cachexy, instead of the strumous ; the comparative soundness of the areolar tissue ; and the absence of ne- cessity for escharotic or otherwise active local treatment. 5. The Indolent Sore. This, perhaps the most common of all ulcers, is most frequently found in the lower extremities," and at a somewhat advanced age. It is invariably of secondary formation; the condition of confirmed deficiency in reparative power having supervened on a state of matters widely different. The sore may have been at first healthy, then inflamed, perhaps thereafter irritable, then weak, and ultimately indolent; merely in consequence of cicatrization having been often opposed and long delayed, by the situation or size of the sore, and by the accidents to which it has been exposed. A weak system may coexist—haAdng had some share in inducing the local apathy. From what has just been said, it can be readily understood how such sores should be most frequently found in the legs of labouring men ; so frequently indeed as almost to render the indolent sore jDcculiar to that important class. The surface is excavated, smooth, glossy, pale, sometimes altogether void of granulation, sometimes sparsely studded by a feeble attempt at such formation. The discharge is thin, serous, and very foetid ; containing but little pus. The surrounding integument is swoln, condensed, and discoloured by passive congestion. That which constitutes the margin of the sore is much elevated above the raw surface ; round, dense, white, callous. And in truth this is the most strildng characteristic of the sore; which not unfrequently looks like a piece of pale mucous membrane set in a dense and high ring of cartilage. It need hardly be said that such margins are not undermined, and neither everted nor inverted; but raised abruptly, a firm solid structure ; the result of repeated accessions of the inflammatory process, of a low grade and clu'onic character. Both sore and margins are comparatively insensible. But, usually, the sore does not present the characters just enumerated, when first brought under our notice. So long as it is merely an indolent Fig. 28. The indolciTt soro, on the ankle. Usually the cutaneous margins are less irreg;ilar thnn in tliis instance—more smooth and rounded.