THE MERCURIAL TREATMENT. 1190 nion warm bath. 2. By tlio use of the mercurial vapour bath. 3. By mercurial fume and the hot air bath (Lalouette, 1786). The effect of these modes of procedure upon a cutaneous eruption is very marked, producing more rapid disappearance of it than mere internal use of the drug or inunction can effect. By some the bath alone is em- ployed ; by others, inhalation of mercurial fume is combined; or tlie internal administration of some form of the remedy is proceeded ynth at the same time. The combination of aqueous vapour with the mercurial fume and inhalation is what is commonly recommended at the present day. The apparatus for this purpose consists of a tripod-stand and spirit-lamp, supporting a marginal water-trough and a central mercury- plate—the latter a little larger than a croAvn-piece. The patient, in the nude state, sits upon a cane-bottomed chair, beneath which is the tripod stand ; and the chair and his body, exclusive only of the head, are covered with a large Macldntosh cloak—or two or three ply of blankets. The vapour and mercurial fume rise together; and the surface of the body thus becomes bedewed with perspiration, watery vapour, and the condensed mercurial. The bath should be continued for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. During the progress of vaporization, on opening the cloak or coverings at the front of the neck the mercurial fume rises, and may be inhaled for about five minutes. This is useful when the effect is wished to be rapid; and especially so when the throat is affected with condylomatous ulceration. After the bath, the patient should sit quiet till the temperature begins to diminish; he then throws off the coverings, waits till the aqueous vapour has sufficiently dried to enable him to put on his night dress, and retires to bed. The surface should neither be rubbed nor dried after the bath. Various forms of mercurial may be employed for this purpose; but calomel should be preferred, as being both more certainly vaporizable and less irritating than any other form of the mineral. These baths may be taken either every night or less frequently, according to the condition and circumstances of the patient; the length of time recommended for their employment being—a month for treatment commenced during the early progress of the indurated sore; six weeks, for patients in whom the disease has attained to the secondary stage; and two months for patients suffering from tertiary affection. Mr. Livingston Parker recommends the use of the bath for two or three weeks after the primary disease with all induration of the cicatrix has disappeared, and thereafter that the patient should take a vapour bath once or twice a week. By some the mercurial bath is scouted as an inefficient means of administering mercury; the mercurial effects being, they allege, very imcertain, as saHvation can rarely be induced. By others it is thought equally powerless as a mercm'ial, the good effect being by them attri- buted to the aqueous vapour bath alone, as weU as to the absence of all mercurial treatment. The good effects of the employment of mercury, in one form or another, are sufficiently manifest in most cases ; even Avhen administered before the cutaneous symptoms manifest themselves. In ordinary con- ditions of spansemia, accompanied with muscular weakness, languor, a sense of great mental depression, with sleepless nights and violent