ACU-PRESSURE—GENERAL TREATMENT. 225 dered equivalent. Its use is expedient only in the case of a second-class artery, when, from scarcity of assistants, want of apparatus, or other 1 accidental circumstances, deligation is inconvenient. In this country, it ' is seldom employed ; unless, indeed, this he called Torsion—namely, ; when, seeing a small arterial orifice which scarcely demands ligature, we seize it with the ordinary forceps, give it two or three turns, and then expect to find it silent. 9. Needles: Acu-pressiire.—Professor Simpson has recently revived and extended the use of this hemostatic agent. The needle is either inserted into the textures from the cutaneous surface inward, till its point comes out upon the surface of the wound close by the bleeding vessel, when the point is carried over the arterial tube and then pushed onwards among the tissues, whose elasticity compresses the needle against the artery. Or a common sewing needle, with wire threaded through the eye, is passed into the textures upon the surface of the wound, in like manner effecting the compression. In either method the needle 1 is withdrawn at the end of one, two, or three days. The advantages, alleged and apparent, are—facility of application in some cases, little injury done to the arterial and other tissues, the avoidance of arterial slough, the temporary lodgement of the foreign body, and the compara- tively inocuous character of the foreign body which is lodged—circum- stances plainly favotu-able (theoretically) to primary union. The balance per contra mainly consists in the difficulty of application in many cases where ligature is readily available, and a sense or suspicion of inadequacy : as a hemostatic power. Should experience prove that acu-pressure is I quite trustworthy to stop bleeding permanently, and that its use is really followed by a more frequent occurrence of primary union in the wound— a case were made out manifestly in its favour. At present, however, the profession seems inclined to beheve that its hemostatic certainty, as well as its general applicability, is inferior to that of the ligature, and that primary union happens just as often in the one way as in the other; its occurrence being due not only to local, but very materially to constitu- I tional and hygienic conditions—unconnected with the wound. 10. Ncmseants and General Treatment—One of Nature's hemostatics ■we found to consist in faintness, supervening on loss of blood. This may be imitated by art; ere yet so much blood has flowed as to estab- lish the natural result. The means are valuable in cases of internal >3morrhage, as from mucous surfaces; to which pressure, ligature, and the other more direct hemostatics are inapplicable. The patient is made sick and faint; so that blood may circulate' more slowly and gently in the wounded part; favouring coagidation. Actual syncope is not wished; for reaction is likely to follow, and by It bleeding may be reinduced. Neither is actual emesis sought; for that includes violent muscular exertion ; and is also likely to be fol- lowed by reaction j both circumstances favourable to bleeding. Deri- vative bleeding from the arm has been practised for this purp'ose ; but nearly the same end may be obtained by the exhibition of such simple nauseants as ipecacuanha or antimony—or simple sedatives, as aconite, or veratrum viride—while yet the important fluid is spared within the Q