385 LIMITED ARTERITIS. n proportion to the obstruction of circulation, which necessarily results rom the progress of such change, vital power in the parts beyond the bstruction is very much impaired; both temperature and sensation are iminished ; and should stimulating measures be unwisely adopted to estore these, excitement beyond the power of control is almost certain D be uiduced, and gangrene foUows. Indeed, if the obstruction be both omplete and general in a part, its death will surely happen as the direct esult—a simple cessation of vitality, without intervention of the inflam- latory process. On the other hand, in slighter cases, the original tfection may subside ere yet consolidation has been complete ; the bstructing coagulum may be gradually removed, and circulation with ital power restored. The treatment of such disorder, when detected, ere obstruction of the irculation has occurred, will consist of leeching along the affected course, est, and ordinary antiphlogistics. A tolerably free administration of alomel and opium may also be desirable, to prevent further change of tructure, if possible. Opium, after depletion, will in all cases be suit- ble; not only as relieving pain, often severe, but likewise tending to uaintain tone of the arterial system; and ammonia may also be given v^ith propriety. Subsequently to the occurrence of obstruction, mercu- ■ial or other sorbefacients—with a view to gradual removal of the (bstructing coagulum—are worse than useless. All stimulating appli- cations, too, whether external or internal, more especially the former, must be carefully avoided; lest the untoward result of excitement exceed- ing power be induced in the enfeebled parts. Ultimately the circulation m the extremity, through the medium of collateral vessels, becomes com- pletely re-established. Arterial obstruction from inflammation is liable to be confounded ||nth embolism. In the latter, however, the obstruction occurs suddenly, Completely, and is attended with acute pain. I 2. Limited Arteritis.—This is a very common result of external injury done to the tissue; as by wound, or by application of ligature. !v''arious results may ensue, corresponding to the amount of the inflamma- lory process induced. The minor grades will give a plastic result, such Ls we desiderate after deligation; the coats become turgid and coherent; |.nd the canal is compactly obliterated at the part affected. A higher trade gives suppuration, usually conjoined with ulceration ; a result which Iv^e do not desiderate, but on the contrary take every means to avoid, in iperations on the larger vessels—except in the part immediately in con- act with the noose of the ligature, where ulceration is inevitable. A till higher grade, more especially if conjoined with circumstances tend- g to impair vital power in the tissue, causes sloughing of the vessel; a ore disastrous event; exemplified by deligation of an artery whose oats have been too rudely manipulated, and too extensively separated irom their connections. The best treatment of this form of arteritis consists in so conducting nr direct interference with the vessel, that only the minor grade of the nflaramatory process shall be obtained, whose characteristic is plastic P^hange, with obliteration of the canal at the affected point. < In the asthenic form of this process we have no plastic change, do ^vhat we will i 2 c