1237 II/EMATOCELE. iug extend witliiii the abdominal parietes. In general, however, the tumour can be pulled down from the abdominal aperture, permitting the cord to be felt free above ; and, besides, the tumour can never be wholly reduced within the abdomen—a certain degi-ce of tense fulness always remaining in the upper part of the canal. In the child, this affection will disappear under discutients. In the adult, it seldom demands inter- ference. If it should, it may be got rid of by tapping and injection. III. Hernial Hydrocele.—"Wlien a scrotal hernia has been reduced, and the neck happily becomes obhterated, the sac, remaining, may be filled by serous accumulation. A pyramidal, fluctuating, and translucent tumour will result; of easy diagnosis ; and amenable to the same treat- ment as an ordinary hydrocele. The affection is of rare occurrence. It may form in cases where, with undue force, a hernia has been forced back, and the bowel has given way within the abdominal cavity. The easy reduction of the fluid, the probable distension of the sac with fluid mingled with gas, and the sunken condition of the patient, will indicate that though little good is likely to foUow any operative interference, still the evacuation, even from the peritoneum, of such putrescent material, affords the only chance of saving the patient. rV. Hydrocele in the Female.—The term Hydrocele is applied to an cedematous state of the round Hgament; analogous to diffuse hydrocele of the cord in the male. Also, a prolongation of peritoneum along the round ligament of the uterus may remain in communication with the abdominal cavity, by means of a narrow aperture at its neck; and this .pouch may become the seat of serous accummulation, constituting a tumour analogous to congenital hydrocele of the male. Besides, the round ligament is liable to be the seat of cystic formation ; analogous to encysted hydrocele of the cord in the male. The affections are rare ; and seldom require active treatment. Hcematocele. This may be the consequence of external injury; or it may be of spontaneous occurrence. By the term is understood an accumulation of blood, in one of three localities : the areolar tissue of the scrotum, the areolar tissue of the cord, and the tunica vaginalis. 1. EccJiymosis or Superficial Hcematocele of the Scrotum is the result of bruise, or oblique wound; and is analogous to an ordinary bruise, both in nature and in treatment. The scrotum swells, and is discoloured; the hue is blackish, lil<;e that of urinous infiltration; but the diagnosis is easy, by attention to the history of the case—also noting that there are none of the signs of gangrene present, and that the system is compara- tively unaffected. The treatment consists in arresting the inflammatory process, and afterwards favouring absorption of the extravasated blood by local sorbefacients. Incision is withheld, unless suppuration have unfor- tunately occurred. Support of the parts and repose in the recumbent position is usually necessary. 2. Hcematocele of the Cord.—^A spermatic vein may give way, under external injury, or great bodily exertion; and extravasation into the areolar tissue will result, forming a tense, discoloured tumour there. I'hc treatment is as for the preceding variety.