CHAPTER XXV. 0¥ SPEAm, AND EUPTUEE OP MUSCLE AND TENDON. Tde term Sj)rain, or Strain, denotes stretching and partial laceration of the ligamentous apparatus of a joint, without displacement of the articu- lating surfaces. The pain and shock, immediately following, are often as great as in complete luxation; and the former, after a time, becomes much more severe, prohably in consequence of the unbroken continuity of the fibrous tissue favouring the occurrence of great tension. Swelling is usually considerable; and is both immediate and secondary, as in other injuries; at first slight, from extravasation of blood; afterwards considerable, from serous effusion into the cavity of the joint, and infiltration, by inflammatory accession, in the tissues exterior. The injury is always serious; painful and troublesome in itself; and apt to lay the foundation of organic change in the joint, of the most con- firmed character. The joints least prone to dislocation are the most liable to sprain. The indications of treatment are; to prevent, diminish, or remove inflammatory accession ; to favour absorption of extravasation and in- flammatory product; to restore function ; and to avert the occurrence of organic change. The joint is to be kept in a state of absolute quietude throughout; commanded by a bandage, splint, or starch apparatus if need be. Cold, continuously applied, may be theoretically the most suitable immediate appHcation; restraining extravasation of blood, and tending to avert inflammatory excess. Notwithstanding, warm applications will generally be more grateful to the patient; leeches, also, are applied—not as recommended, by popular consent, immediately on the receipt of the injury, both in sprain and bruise, to remove the " bruised blood "—but only to check the inflammatory access when it threatens to become severe ; opiates and constitutional remedies should also be exhibited, as circum- stances may require. After the inflammatory attack has passed away, the part remaining feeble and swoln, gentle friction and pressure are to be employed; with a view to favouring absorption, and so restoring the parts, without and within the joint, to their pristine state. But this indication must, in all cases, be begun and continued with extreme caution; lest a premature and inordinate stimulus be applied, and dangerous excitement recur. As swelling decreases, and all uneasy sensations abate, passive motion is to be employed, with a view to restoration of function; but used with the same caution as the friction and baudarjin o o _ Instead of using plain water, it is well to add a small quantity of tho tmcturc of arnica; cold at first, afterwards warmed or not according to