399 DIAGNOSIS OF ANEURISM. aneurism not cured, however, "but progressing to a fatal result in another way. 3. By 2yrcssare on important parts; as on the trachea, oesophagus, nerves, etc. Aneurisms of the arch of the aorta, for example, usually prove 'fiital by the injurious eflTect on respiration. 3. By merc^ consti- tutional imtation; the system sympathising with the local disorder. And, co'teris paribus, the greater the obstacles to the tumour's enlarge- ment, the greater the amount of constitutional disturbance. Fibrous coverings oppose onward progress of the aneurism to the open state; but do not avert, though they may delay, the fatal issue. Ere hemorrhage has had an opportunity to occur, the patient may have been carried off by the wearing hectic. 4. By suppuration of the sac. The secretion of pus may prove great and protracted ; and even amputation may fail to arrest exhaustion therefrom. 5. Bt/ diffusion of the aneurism; inducing gangrene of the limb, in the manner formerly explained. Typhoid symp- toms may at once set in with force, and forbid the doubtful chance of amputation. 6. Lastly, the size of the aneurism may become so dispro- portioned to the powers of blood formation possessed by the frame, that although within the sac many pounds of blood may be contained, the patient dies from complete anaemia, with all the symptoms of gradual and fatal hemorrhage. Diagnosis of Aneurism. The Diagnosis of aneurism is one of the most important points in practical surgery. The following considerations will ordinarily enable us to escape from error. Chronic abscess, and glandular, medullary, or other tumours, are the morbid states most apt to assume the aneurismal cha- racters. Often they simulate the disease very closely; strong and distinct pulsation being communicated by a neighbouring artery of large size. But—1. By attending to the history of the case. Aneurism is soft and compressible from the first, and then becomes hard by solidification of its contents. An abscess may be soft from the first, but more frequently begins with induration, and softens secondarily; reversing the progress of aneurism. A small, chronic, and scrofulous abscess may be soft from the first; and may perhaps seem to be compressible. Situate, for example, in the groin, in the axilla, or at the root of the neck, it may seem to disappear in part by pressure, beneath the surrounding hardness; but on removal of the pressure, tlie lively resilience of the aneurism is wanting. An enlarged gland, or other tumour, is invariably first hard, then soft, and never capable of being dispersed by pressure ; and, unless suppura- tion occur, the softening and fluctuation do not supervene at all. 2. Pulsation is equable in aneurism. At every point, unless much alteration by partial consolidation have occurred, pulsation is felt equally distinct. Whether the tumour is compressed directly downwards, or elevated and compressed latterly, pulsation is the same. A solid or other from the windpipe ; the aneurism had opened then. In December he sank under respiratory oppression ; and there had been no bleeding during the interval—although, unhappily unaware of the disease, he had been habitually indulging in the most ^olent exercise. On dissection, three apertures were found communicating between the aneurism and trachea ; each one not only firmly corked by its plug of fibrin, but also filmed over by a thin cicatrix.