819 THE PASSING OF INSTRUMENTS. oiu" care to iusiu-e a right passage for the mstrument must be doubly exerted ; the patient having no power to warn, lis of a tlireatened devia- tion from the proper track. In most cases, the facility with which the tube has passed, the length which has been introduced, the sensation afforded by pressure of its extremity against the coats of the stomach, and the equ;ible progress of respiration, will sufficiently indicate that the tube is in its right place. Should any doubt exist, it may be well to assure ourselves fully that the tube is in the oesophagus, and not in the larynx, before fluids are passed downwards to the stomach. For this purpose, a sheet of paper should be placed over the face, with the extre- mity of the tube projecting through it; while in front of the tube a lighted taper is held, which by the paper is effectually screened from the flatus of the nostrils in expiration. If, on expiration, the flame remain steady, no air impinging on it, we may proceed with injection; the tube is certainly in its right place. If the flame be extinguished, or even made to bend considerably, it is equally plain that an error has been made; and that injection would almost certainly occasion fatal asphyxia. It should be remembered, however, that this test is sometimes misleading, the flame being deflected a little, although the tube be quite in its right track. It is well also to remember, that in cases where no stricture exists, a large instrument is preferable to one of small size ; being much less likely to enter the windpipe. And it is also worthy of note, how, in emergencies, a syringe is not essential to effect clearance of the stomach ; a tube hav- ing been passed, the fluid contents of the stomach may be made to flow out by it, on merely inclining the body over the bedside so as to bring the mouth to a lower level than that of the epigastrium ; or a long tube may be employed as a syphon. In order to introduce fluid into the stomach, a common small tin funnel will be found satisfactorily to answer the purpose. When a syringe is employed, it should always be with caution; otherwise, ecchymosis and laceration of the gastric mucous mem- teane are not improbable. Also, unless previously a"w-are that the stomach contains much fluid, it is prudent to begin the operation of " pumping" by injecting tepid water, which is afterwards pumped out along with the previous contents ; and this injecting and ejecting may be repeated as often as may seem necessary, with the double view of washing out the viscus thoroughly, and at the same time avoiding injury to the lining membrane. Rupture and Laceration of the Fharynx or (Esophagus have occurred inconsequence of violent efforts to extract or propel foreign bodies impacted in the canal; also in attempts to pass the probang, bougie, or stomach- tebe; and one case is narrated by Boerhaave, where violent vomiting produced rupture of the oesophagus. Such injuries occurring in the neck, will probably occasion abscess or diffuse suppuration; requiring elief by free incision. Within the thorax the result has generally roved rapidly flital. CEsophagotomy. This operation is designed to effect the removal of foreign bodies from he lower part of the pharynx, and upper part of the oesophagus, wlicn