744 AFFECTIONS OF THE SCIINEIDEIUAN MEMISHANE. away, and, loosening tlie foreign body, may effect its expulsion. If ugj. the nasal speculum may bo employed, by whicli the ibreign body may be seen ; or, the patient's head is firmly secured (and the best way of accomplishing this, in the child, is to place the head firmly between the knees of the operator—unless indeed anaisthesia be employed, as in most cases it should be), and then by means of the probe, u.sed gently, we seek to ascertain the presence and site of the foreign substance—for it may have escaped from the nares, by the moutli or pharynx. Having dis- covered the foreign body, the flat end of the probe, slightly bent, or the scooped end of a director, or a curette made for the purpose, is passed down upon it^ and insinuated past it; then, by raising the handle of the instrument, and bringing the point to bear upon the posterior aspect oi the foreign substance, the latter is dislodged forwards, and may be readily removed. Polypus forceps carefully introduced, and used as a probe till the foreign body is felt, may sometimes deal with it more surely and satisfactorily; the operator remembering that their blades can oidy bu opened in the perpendicular direction, and that when opened they should be passed so as to include the foreign body fairly in their grasp. Congestion of the ScJmeiderian Membrane. The lining membrane of the nostrils is liable to become tbe seat of a minor inflammatory jDrocess ; chi'onic, and unimportant as regards struc- tural change; but troublesome and inconvenient by its continuance. There are redundancy of secretion (often foetid), uneasy sensation, and a feeling of stuffing in the part; not unfrequently the tone of voice is con- siderably impaired, and the sense of smell may also be rendered imperfect. Many of the symptoms of mucous polypus are present; and carefid ex- ploration by the nasal speculum is necessary, to insure accuracy of diag- nosis. If the affection be at all of an acute nature, a few leeches may be required more than once—applied directly to the membrane by means of a suitable glass tube ; and in the passive form of congestion, leeching may also be expedient, once, to unload the vessels of the part Then astringents are employed ; solutions of nitrate of silver, sulphate of zinc, chloride of soda, alum, matico, etc.; and these are patiently persevered with, either singly or combined. But in all cases an especial regard must be had to the state of the general system. Usually an atonic con- dition is found ; and the greatest benefit is derived fi-om sustained exhi- bition of the chalybeates. In very many cases, indeed, Avithout this tonic general treatment,, all local care would prove of but little avail. Often the practitioner will find a cause for a persistent and intractable form of this affection, in a tooth projecting into the antrum, or in the presence of a dead tooth or fang of a tooth in the incisor, canine, or biscuspiJ region—on the removal of whicli the irritation of the Schneideriau mem- brane completely disappears. In some cases, again, it is due to a more remote cause—gastric or intestinal ii-ritation ; and tliis equally requnes removal. Abscess of the Septum Narium. Abscess may form beneath the mucous covering of the septum; BJ^^y iM