CHAPTER XLV. AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK. Olandtilar Enlargement and Abscess. Affections of the lymphatics in the neck, as elsewhere, may either be symj)tomatic of some simple source of irritation affecting the parts of the head and neck from which the vessels come which communicate with the affected glands, or may constitute a special disease of itself, usually con- nected with some general or systematic disorder. Thus, in scrofulous adolescents, the glands of the neck are very liable to enlargement, by a chronic inflammatory process; and frequently, notwithstanding every effoit to the contrary, suj)puration is reached—causing more or less deformity by unseemly cicatrization. The ordinary enlargement of the cervical glands, so frequently met with in scrofulous patients, must, however, be care- fully distinguished from the syphilitic glandular affection, characterized by implication of the whole chain of lymphatics on both sides of the neck, along the anterior margin of the trapezius. This condition is of im- portance to the practitioner, not on its own account, but because it con- stitutes so excellent a symptom of constitutional syphilis—nay, may be said to be almost absolutely pathognomonic of its existence in any case where we find it present. The glands affected are painless, about the size of small hazel-nuts, indurated, and never suppurate. They become affected in this manner before any eruptions make their appearance on the surface, and continue sometimes long alter any other constitutional symptom remains. Another form of glandular enlargement of almost stony or cartilaginous hardness sometimes occurs. This is usually con- fined to one side of the neck, and involves the lymphatic chain ; though i one gland may be, and often is, larger than the other. The hardness i resembles very closely that of scirrhus, but the disease has no connection i with the cancerous cachexia. It is rather associated with anasmia—perhaps > accompanied with enlargement of the thyroid ; and in some instances it I is attended by ansemic palpitation and exophthalmos. The pressure of the enlarged glands iTpon the nervous branches of the cervical plexus pro- duces pain, often extending to the shoulder, and down the arm upon the affected side. In the nascent stage, we endeavour to arrest pro- gress by removal of the cause of the enlargement; as by the removal of decayed teeth; by curing eruptive affections of the scalp; and by con- trolling inflammatory affections of the ear. When the enlargement is duo to a constitutional cause, and the patient manifestly scrofulous, wo seek to do good by constitutional treatment suited to the strumous diathesis, by fomentation, and subsequently, when all acutencss is past, by the apph- cation of iodine, or other discutients, or by moro decided countcr-irnta-