1351 teale's operation. Fig. 375. " The operator begins by making the two lateral incisions of the long flap through the integuments only. The transverse incision of this flap, supposing it to run along the upper edge of the patella, is made by a free sweep of the knife through the sldn and tendinous structures down to the femur. Should the lower transverse line of the flap fall across the middle or lower part of the patella, the transverse incision can extend through the skin only, which must be dissected up as far as the upper border of the patella, at which place the tendinous structures are to be cut direct to the thigh-bone. The flap is completed by cutting the fleshy structures from below upwards close to the bone. The posterior short flap, contain- ing the large vessels and nerves, is made by one sweep of the knife down to the bone, the soft parts being afterwards separated from the bone close to the periosteum, as far upwards as the intended place of sawing. " The arteries being secured, the flaps may be united by suture im- mediately ; or they may be lightly placed in apposition, the stump being wrapped in a fold of napkin for four or six hours, when any clotted blood may be gently removed by a sponge, and the flaps finally adjusted. I prefer the latter method, as we thereby avoid the evil of infiltration of the tissues of the stump with blood, which often is the cause of suppuration in these parts. In adjusting the flaps, the long one is folded over the end of the bone, and brought, by its transverse line, into union with the short flap, the two corresponding free angles of each being first united by suture. One or two additional stitches complete the transverse line of union. As the long flap is folded upon itself so as to form a kind of pouch for the end of the bone, it is requisite that it should be held in its folded state by a point of suture on each side. Another stitch on each side secures the lateral line of the short flap to the corresponding part of the long one. A longitudinal line of union thus passes at right angles each end of the transverse line. The position of the longitudinal line at each end of the transverse one will be rendered more easily intelligible by reference to the accompanying diagram." This somewhat complicated procedure Mr. Teale proposes to extend to amputation of the leg, arm, forearm, and even of the fingers. The great length of anterior flap, no doubt, admits of some portion of the patient's weight being borne by the thick musculo-cutaneous cushion which covers the end of the bone, instead of being difi'used generally over the whole Fig. 375. Teale's operation completed.