748 lUllNOrLASTICS. tive process that has rendered the restoration of the nose necessary the new structure may be made from the integument of the forehead' The size of the nose should be phmned by means of a piece of paper cut of a triangular Ibrm ; but in shaping it duo allowance must be made in the calculation for the shrinking of the llap when dissected up, and the after shrivelUng, by absorption, which will continue for months after the operation. The base of the triangular flap may be left either plain or with a projecting central tongue which shall constitute the colunma nasi. The outline of the triangular flap is then laid flat on the fore- head ; the base pointing npAvards, the neck resting between the eye- brows. It is there steadily held, while the surgeon, with ink, or at once with the knife's point, maps out its boundaries. Thus defined, the flap, consisting of all but the pericranium, is carefully dissected down. The neck of the flap is made sufficiently long to admit of its being turned round to occupy the site of the nose, without serious interruption to the circulation ; and, to facilitate this movement, the incision sliould be carried lower down on that side to which the twist is to be made. The edges of the nasal opening, to which the margins of the flap are to be attached—and the centre of the upper lip, if a columna has been included in the formation of the flap—should now be removed completely, so as to provide a raw surface for adhesion with the flap. The oozing of blood having ceased, the flap is brought round and adjusted care- fully and accurately, by the requisite number of points of interrupted suture ; and by the introduction of dossils of lint into the nostrils, the necessary support is afforded to the new nose. The lower part of the wound in the forehead is brought together by suture, and may imite by the first intention; the rest is covered Avith water-di-essing, and left to granulate. The flap adheres along its margins by adhesion; the rest of the raw surface, which is unattached, by granulation ; the stitches are removed as late as possible ; the interior stufiing is changed from time to time, and may be medicated if necessary. Ultimately—in twelve or fourteen days, usually—the borrowed substance becomes firmly 6xed in its new position. After the lapse of a month or six weeks, when the parts have consolidated, and the nutrition of the nose is maintaiaed quite as much by its lateral attachments as by its neck, this latter twisted and unseemly connecting link with its old position may he dealt with. If the ossa nasi have been left entire, with their integu- ment, the apex and alaj only having been destroyed, it may be divided and turned back to its old site. A wedge-shaped portion is then taken away by means of a bistoury ; and adjustment is efi'ected by the helj) of a little dissection of the integument around it. But if the ossa nasi have been lost, it is well to leave the medium of attachment uninterfered with ; only securing its incorporation with the subjacent surface; for by its continued presence, the want of prominence which the loss of the nasal bones could not fail otherwise to produce will be very much compensated. Besides, continued nutrition of the transplanted flap will be fully secured, and its shrivelling by atrophy may be in a great measure prevented. If the prominence should threaten to be excessive, it may be reduced by compression suitably applied. If the columna has been formed at the same time as the nose, sponge tents or tubes will be reiiuu'eil