905 AFFECTIONS OF THE METACARPUS. amenable to treatment. Obviously the change depends on a chronic in- flammatory process affecting the aponeurosis ; and is to bo met in its early stage with leeching, mercurial friction, local use of iodine, etc. The partial form is common m those of the better ranks, who are much given to horseback exercise, and other field sports. In some of these cases, amendment may follow subcutaneous division of the affected portion of fascia, tlie finger being subsequently straightened by the application of a splint and bandage. Spaeth Flexion of the Thutnb not unfrequently occurs during child- hood, in connection with intestinal irritation. It is treated by the appli- cation of splint and bandage, while by purgatives and alteratives the primte viee are rectified. Those who write much are liable to troublesome spasm of the thumb—sometimes called " Writer's cramp''—or to the opposite condi- tion, ^'Scrivener's palsy." Treatment consists in rest, friction, and Faradization of the part, with tonics constitutionally and locally. Tumours of the Metacarpal Bones and Phalanges. Exostosis may occur; but is rare. Treatment is seldom if ever required, the affection proving but little troublesome. Osteo-cystoma IS more common. Its treatment depends upon the bulk. If small, it is incised; and, on pressure being subsequently applied, contraction and healing will probably ensue. Or, if need be, a seton is passed and tem- porarily retained; and thus the desired obliteration is effected. Those of large size, iuvolving the whole periphery of the bone, warrant ampu- tation of the affected part. Enclionclromata have here their most frequent site. If small and external, the tumour may sometimes be dis- sected off, and the bone left uninjured. Those which affect the whole bone, and develope from its interior, require amputation. Generally, the tumours are not single; yet usually we axe able to save a part—and sometimes the greater part—of that most useful organ, the hand; the avowed non-malignancy of this tumour admitting of incisions being made very close to the morbid formation. Sometimes, however, the size and connections of the tumour are such as to demand amputation of the whole hand. Once I had occasion to remove one of great size, weighing fourteen pounds. From the apex of the tumour repeated and serious hemorrhage had taken place; and it was satisfactory to find, on a careful examination after injection, that the blood had escaped from ulcerated openings in large superficial veins, not from any degeneracy in the structure of the tumour itself. Other Diseases of the Metacarpal Bones and Phalanges. These bones are especially liable to the inflammatory casualties— Tilcer, caries, and necrosis. The ordinary treatment is to be put in force. When, as a last resource, amputation is unavoidable, one general rxde should never be forgotten, viz., that it is our duty to save as much as circumstances will possibly permit—a portion of the original hand being