990 ABSCESS OF THE ABDOMINAL I'ARIETES. But ill all, the coustitutional treatment is the same : rest and quietude • starvation, and the iiou-employment of purgatives ; free venesection or leeching, or both, on the first onset of the inflammatory process; then calomel and opium—the latter in large doses. Abscess of ths Abdominal Parietes. Abscess of the abdominal parietes sometimes occurs spontaneously; frequently, it is the result of external injury; and, in some systems, a slight blow, rupture of some of the fibres of the muscular structures of the abdominal wall, or a strain, as in retching, may suffice for its pro- duction. The original site of the abscess, however, is more frequently deep-seated than superficial; commencing, as it often does, in the right iliac fossa, from some irritation in the ca20ut caecum coli, which has produced a perityjjhlitis, terminating in suppuration. The matter, when formed, may make its way to the surface above Poupart's ligament; or it may work down the inguinal canal along the cord, and point at the external abdominal ring; or, pushing the peritoneum before it, it may ascend as far as the outer margin of the rectus, there perforating the layers of the abdominal wall, below the posterior sheath of the muscle, becoming superficially diffuse, and usually pointing at or beside the umbilicus. At first there is a hard, tender, increasing tumour, which softens obscurely as it enlarges, and slowly points. Treatment varies according to the stage. At first, while the infiammatory process is but recent and slight, and the swelling consists of plastic product, resolution is in our power; by rest, leeching, warm fomentation, counter-irritation, and mercurials. Advancement of the tumour is arrested, and the hard swelling begins to disappear. This subsidence may be accelerated by judiciously used discussives — employed, however, always with the greatest caution, inasmuch as we know by experience that if they be used either too freely or too soon, there is a great probabUity of in- flammatory reaccession, in an aggravated form. So soon as the forma- tion of matter has been at all indicated, a free evacuating incision should not be delayed ; it being remembered that the pus is much nearer to the peritoneum than to the integument, and moreover bound down by strata of dense fibrous and muscular tissues. But it is surely advisable to go a step further, and, whenever we feel convinced that reasonable hope of arrest and resolution is gone, to make an incision in the most prominent part of the swelling, where we anticipate that matter is first and mainly to be, in order that so soon as it does form it may find a ready drain for its outward escape ; all the hazards of its pent-up accumulation, in any quantity, being thereby felicitously avoided. If artificial opening be withheld, one of two events is very likely to occur ; the pus, finding its way into the general cavity of the abdomen, excites peritonitis; or, on spontaneous evacuation taking place, the condition of fa3cal fistula is established—the perforation internally, surrounded by plastic formation, having penetrated into an adherent fold of intestine, or directly into the coecum. As already stated, lumbrici, cherry-stones, the bones of small am- mals or birds, and such like substances, may be arrested in the caput