CIRCULAR AMPUTATION. 1346 his right hand may be used, fi-eely, for tlio incisions. The sound limb is held steady, and out of the way, by an assistant; or is secui-ed by a toAvel—in the case of the lower limbs—^to a leg of the table. Ordinary assistants are ready to control the motions of the patient, to reassure him, if need be, and to minister to his wants. An experienced adminis- trator undertakes the whole charge of the chloroform, from the beginning to the end of the operation ; never allowing himself to be distracted by the details of this from a close and uninterrupted watching of the patient. A trustworthy assistant is ready to command the hemorrhage, by the pressure of his own fingers, or by that of a tourniquet. Another is prepared to retract the flaps, and to tie the arteries. A third is stationed to hand what things may be required ; and these are suitably arranged on an adjoining table—tourniquet, bandage, lint, ligatures, sutures, knives, saw, cutting-pliers, artery-forceps, sponges, chloroform. Fig. 869. If necessary, an assistant, seated in front of the patient, steadies and supports the limb to be removed. Supposing the thigh to be the part concerned, an assistant, grasp- ing the limb with both his hands, draws up the skin as far as pos- sible. The surgeon, holding the knife lightly, and with his forearm at first carried fairly beneath the thigh, divides the skin and areolar tis- sue in one continuous sweep. The assistant now retracts the skin, more decidedly than before ; and he is assisted in this, by the surgeon touch- ing the subcutaneous tissues at various points with the point of the instrument. Close to the completely retracted integument, the knife is again laid on; and, by a second sweep, the superficial muscles are divided. These are pulled upwards by a retractor—a portion of hnen or leather, slit at one end ; and, by a third sweep of the knife, laid on Fig. 369. Circular amputation, illustrated in the thigli. The terraced arrange- ment of the wound shewn in the amputated part. Fig. 370. The corresponding stump ; intended to exhibit the comparatiTely large extent of wound that remains ; in contradistinction to Fig. 372.