llADICAL CURE. 1028 of the ligature over a roller bandage, so as to prevent them from cutthig their way through the skin. The great objection to these plans, and various modifications of them, is, that the canal, although occupied by a plug—whicli certainly for a time may prevent further protrusion—is not occluded ; and the internal ring, on its posterior and inner aspect, still remains unobstructed, so that a hernial protrusion, under any sufficient exciting cause, may again escape beliind the invagination. Mr. Syme's operation, if properly per- formed, certamly tends to secui'o the patient against this risk better than Wiitzer's method; for by means of it the conjoined tendon and Poupait's ligament may be drawn together, and consolidated Avith the extremity of the invaginated tissues. Mr, Wood has introduced, and extensively practised, an operation for the radical cure of inguinal hernia which combines the occlusion of the inner and outer rings with the approximation of the walls of the inguinal canal* The operation requires for its performance a stout tumour-needle, its curve forming the segment of a small circle, with either strong waxed linen thread, or wire. The operation by the linen ligature is as follows. The rupture having been completely reduced is retained by an assistant compressing the inter- nal ring, if that is found necessary. The surgeon begins by dividing the skin longitudinally over the fundus of the sac, to an extent sufficient to admit his finger guiding the needle. The skin is then detached from the tissues beneath for fully an inch in every direction. The operator now introduces his finger at the opening and invaginates the exposed super- ficial fascia into the inguinal canal, till he can distinctly recognise the internal ring, the position of the cord, Poupart's ligament, the margin of the internal oblique, and the edge of the conjoined tendon. The needle is now passed along the finger, and, guided by the sense of touch, is carried upwards and inwards so as to pick up a considerable portion of the most prominent part of the margin of the conjoined tendon. The point is then carried outwards towards the skin, passing through those fibres of the abdominal aponeurosis Avhich at the pubes constitute the internal pillar of the external ring. An assistant now di-aws the skin upwards and inwards until the cutaneous surface which naturally hes over Poupart's ligament is brought over the spot at which the needle projects—and there it is made to protrude. The assistant threads one end of the ligature through the eye of the needle, which is withdraAvn i carrying the ligature along with it. The needle is now guided by the > finger against Poupart's ligament, upon the level of the outer margin of I the internal ring; and as it is carried outwards the skin is draAvn down- wards and outwards, so as to enable the surgeon to bring out the point of the needle at the same cutaneous aperture. Here tlie loop of ligature is secured, and the needle withdrawn. The finger of the operator is next transferred to the external abdominal ring, and carried upwards and backwards immediately above the spine of the pubes, till he feels the margin of the rectus tendon and the resistance of the conjoined tendon. The needle is then passed along the finger, and carried out- wards through the abdominal aponeurosis, so as to include a considerable * Medico-cliirui'g. Trans., vol xliii., 18G0 ; also, Wood on Kupturc, 1SC3.