LIGATURE OF THE FEMORALS. 1289 uutil the ureter is seen separated from tlie psoas muscle along with the peritoneum, the sacro-iliac articulation is felt; and there within the brim of the pelvis the vessel mil be found pulsating. The origin of the artery is nearly opposite the centre of a line, drawn from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the umbilicus. Usually the external iliac—first found—proves the best guide to the internal. Iso- lation is effected by the finger-nail, and by the end of the aneurism needle. It is not necessary to use the Icnife here, as the areolar tissue surrounding the vessel is so loose. The wound being then fully opened by assistants, the needle is passed, from within outwards; taking care to avoid the ureter and peritoneum internally, the internal iliac vein which nes posteriorly, and the external iliac vein which lies to the front and passes behind the origin of the artery. The point of deligation should be made at a suitable distance from the iliac bifurcation. Ligature of the Common Iliac may be required for aneurism. It has also been resorted to on account of hemorrhage implicating the external and internal iliac arteries ; and is recommended by some for the arrest of secondary hemorrhage after high amputation in the thigh. The vessel is reached by an incision identical with that just described; and the operation is, perhaps, as easy and promising as the preceding. The vein is found on the inner and pelvic aspect of the artery, on the left side; on the right, it lies behind and then external to the artery, behind which the left common iliac vein also passes to its termination in the vena cava inferior. A similar incision, extended upwards, may serve, as already stated, for deligation of the aorta. The Femorals. Aneurism of the Common Femoral, or of the Superficial Femoral, or of the Profunda, as formerly observed, requires deligation of the external iliac. False aneurism may form in the lower part of the superficial femoral; and for this, the ordinary operation for such an accident is requisite; namely, incision of the sac, and deligation of the artery above and below the wounded part. But, on account of the close cohesion which exists between the artery and vein, and the risk of injury to the latter by such an operation, in this situation, ligature on the cardiac side of the aneurism has been recommended in preference. In one case, where the aneurism was situated at the commencement of the adductoral sheath, Mr. Syme tied the superficial femoral with success. Aneurismal varix, too, is occa- sionally met with here, of traumatic origin ; a penetrating wound having been inflicted by the grasping of a knife, or other sharp-pointed instru- ment, between the thighs. It may prove but little troublesome, and demand no other treatment than support of the part by bandaging. The Popliteal is probably the most common of all external aneurisms; and, hitherto, the Hunterian application of ligature to the superficial femo- ral has been the only approved mode of treatment. Latterly, however, as elsewhere explained, the application of pressure, instead of the ligature, has been employed; and experience has given undoubted testimony to the efficacy of the practice. There are patients, doubtless, who may prove intolerant of pressure ; and there may be others who prefer the apparent