823 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE EAR, be unseemly to perforate the eaa- in their excision, this is, practically, rather advantageous—admitting of a free escape of blood, and thus securing speedy union, towards one aspect, at all events, of the surface. 4. Fibroua tumours are rare, but occur occasionally, and require excision. 6. The Cance7'om affection of the ear requires either complete or partial removal of the auricle. This is effected, when it is desired to remove the whole organ, by two elliptical incisions, one in front, and the other behind the meatus. The ear and neighbouring soft parts are then dissected away, cutting through the meatus, and carefully avoiding wound of the temporal artery. To remedy the deformity caused by the removal of the ear, either otoplasty may be resorted to, or an artificial organ, fashioned out of light wood, metal, or gutta percha, may be employed as a substitute. Otoplasties. Deficiencies of the auricle—^by wound, ulceration, or sloughing—may be repaired by autoplasty. Eestoration of the entire organ is scarcely to be attempted; but a portion may be readily replaced—when laxity of the sur- rounding integument is favourable—^by an operation conducted on the same principle as rhinoplasty. Foreign Bodies in the Meatus. Children are apt to insert foreign matter into the meatus auditorius, as well as into the nostrils. Dislodgment and extrusion are effected by the same means ; by a stream of water injected; or by the use of a flat and bent probe, or curette. Ordinary forceps are useless for the removal of foreign bodies ; but forceps suited for the purpose, and worked through the speculum, will be found in some cases very suitable instru- ments. Some surgeons employ them bent at an angle, others straight; in any instance the limbs of the forceps should be slender, and fully two and a half inches in length. In removing foreign bodies from the ear, a careful examination of the meatus with the speculum should be made. If this is not done, a careless manipulator, passing a curette or probe down to the membrana tympani, may easily mistake the almost metallic sound emitted for a foreign body; and should he attempt forcibly to operate upon this supposed substance, rupture of the membrane, fracture of the malleus, and laceration of the cavity of the tympanum may result. Abortive attempts to dislodge foreign bodies from the meatus have occasioned deeper entrance, disruption of the internal ear, intense otitis, and death. The best speculum is the tubular instrument, swel- ling out trumpet-wise. The surgeon should possess three or four different sizes. The oval form, although it admits of being introduced more deeply into the canal, is not so serviceable an instrument for every purpose, being apt to interfere with the free play of forceps passed along its channel. Insects and larvae sometimes lodge in the ear; causing severe inflani- inatory mischief there, with much local suffering, and grave constitutional disturbance. Warm oil di'opped into the meatus till it is filled, or white precipitate, suspended in milk, and injected, will bo found sufficient to