GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 504 simply opened up by direct wound, or by Assuring of the articulating ex- tremity of the bone ; or, in addition, they may have their interior occupied by foreign matter. The indications of a ball, or other foreign body, having escaped, are not always plain. If there be but one aperture, that of entrance, the natural inference is that lodgment has taken place. Yet there is an ex- ception to this ; when the ball has been lodged in a portion of the clothing carried before it, pouch-wise, and has escaped on the evulsion of that portion at the time of undressing the patient; also, when the ball has made a complete circuit, and come out at the same spot at Avhich it entered as has occasionally happened in the head, neck, and chest. When, on the contrary, there is plainly the aperture of exit as well as that of en- trance—and the two are nearly in a straight line, or otherwise placed as circumstances would seem to render likely—the probability is tliat the ball has perforated and escaped. And still we may be mistaken; for it may have been divided on bone, as formerly remarked, and one part only may have passed out, while the other remains impacted Or two apertures, nearly in a line, may both be of entrance ; made by two distinct balls, which have lodged. Also, a pleurality of openings doe^ not imply a plurality of bullets. The same bullet may perforate and escape, and perforate again; or, after perforation, it may be subdivided into two or more fragments, and each have its separate apertm-e of exit. In estimating the Idvely course for a ball to have followed, the position which the patient occupied at the time the wound was received must : always be taken into consideration. The true extent and danger of a gunshot wound can scarcely be de- - termined, until suppuration has been established. Then the sloughs ? become detached ; not necessarily involving the whole track ; always r greatest at the point of entrance. And, on separation of the sloughs, , bones, joints, arteries, cavities, and canals, may be exposed, which pre- - viously Avere deemed unimplicated. In most cases, however, especially • when the wounded part is a Hmb, the extent of the injury and the course e followed by the ball can be tolerably Avell estimated, as soon as the inflam- ■ matory process sets in, by the full extent and degree of the inflammatoiy < symptoms which are developed; though, as a rule, the inflammatory « swellmg and tension, when fully developed, seem to implicate all the it textures of the extremity more or less directly, and not to be confined i- to the mere track of the ball. When the sloughing is complete, the • dead texture which separates is a much larger mass at the wound of i entrance than at that of exit; indicating thus where the degree of • contusion was greatest. At this stage of matters, the standai'd condition t of the wounds of entrance and exit is reversed ; the exit small, con- ■ tracted, healing, perhaps nearly healed ; the entrance aperture wide, gaping, with a yellowish grey slough hanging out like a mass of dirty rag or chewed paper. The process of separation of the slough is usually complete, at the entrance wound, from a week to ten days after the receipt of the injury. The wound of exit is always first healed, even if it be the more de])endent of the two apertures. Tiie accidents which are Liable to occur during the progress of cuw are many and formidable ; excess of the inflammatory process and of m- 1