149 AMPUTATION IN GANGRENE. Pulling rudely at yet adherent sloughs, or cutting in living parts, is not unlikely to reinduce sloughing; more especially when gangrene is of the chronic form, and attended with general debility. After separation, hotli part and system are treated as in ordinary granulation ; only with a fore- knowledge that, on account of previous exliaustion, support will be soon demanded on behalf of both. Question of Amputation. 1. Amputation is not unfrequently advisable, in order io prevent the occm-rence of gangrene. Thus ; when a limb has been much injured by mechanical or chemical means—in the case of a severe compound fracture, or burn, for example—and it is apparent to the experienced observer that mortification must ensue, involving the whole thickness of the limb, acute, tending to spread, and from the first accompanied by the most formidable constitutional symptoms—amputation is performed above the injui'ed point; so soon as the primary shock has passed away, and the system rallied so far as to afford sufficient tolerance of the operation. 2. When, after such injuries, gangrene has set in, of the acute and spreading kind, there is, in certain cases, no question as to the propriety of immediate operation. At one time, it was by many considered right, in this and in all other cases of mortification, to wait for the spontaneous line of separation. But delay, under these circumstances, with such an object in view, will in most cases be in vain. The gangrene spreads upwards and upwards, with a diffused and streaky margin; the typhoid symptoms grow more and more intense; the trunk is reached, rendering operative interference hopeless ; or, long ere this, the system has sunk, and the patient perished. The only hope of escape is by early amputa- tion. It is a slender chance, no doubt, but it is the only one; and to it the patient is entitled. While the mortification is as yet undefined, we amputate at some distance from the gangrened part; in one which is sound, or at least appears to be so. If there be no point distal to the trunk, altogether free from the signs of incipient death, we refrain from the knife; its use must then prove futile, and would but accelerate the fatal issue. And, in selecting _ the line of incision, when amputation is advisable, it is well to remember that the subcutaneous tissue is often an earlier victim than the skin itself; that, therefore, the immediate vicinity of the discoloured margin is never suitable ; and that, in all cases, careful manipulation should be employed, to ascertain, if possible, that all tex- tures, as well as the skin, are yet sound ; otherwise, we might be cutting m parts not only doomed, but dead. In many examples of acute trau- matic gangrene, in which there is even much space apparently suitable for amputation, the constitutional depression has already advanced so far as to render the shock of an operation, then performed, certainly fatal. In such circumstances, our attention must be mainly directed to rousing the vital powers ; sustaining them under the depressing agency; and if, thus aided, they fail in attaining to even a temporary rally, we refrain irom operation. 3. In the chronic form of gangrene, arising without apparent external cause, there is no such liaste in the use of the knife. Nature's initiative