951 DISLOCATION OF THE SPINE, The situation of tlie dislocation is usually between the fourth and fifth, or fifth and sixth vertebras; but separation may take place between any of the cervical articulations. The displacement is easily recognisable on manipulation of the lines of the spinous processes ; and in the upper cervical region the displacement of the ti-ausverse processes may serve to assist in the diagnosis; but the comparatively great degree of immobility in dislocation, and the existence of cliaracteristic crepitus in fracture, though spoken of by some writers, are signs not to be sought for. The usual result to be anticipated in cases where the injury is below the third cervical vertebra, and the distortion well marked, is death of the patient within forty-eight hours—usually from interruption of the respiration. In all cases the concomitant symp- toms of compressed or torn spinal cord, as in. fracture, are sufficiently explicit. When life, or the hope of life remains—replacement by careful extension and coaptation has been resorted to, and been followed by most marvellous results—if at least we are to credit the very wonderful histories Fig. 309. Fig. 310. of several such cases, narrated by different surgeons. "We are inclined to doubt, however, that these cases were of the serious nature supposed, and to assent to the dictum of Dupuytren that such attempts at replace- ment are more likely to do further injury than to benefit the patient, in a real case of dislocation of the vertebrae. Usually, therefore, the patient is to be treated as if he had suffered from concussion or compression. Subluxation, or partial displacement, of the vertebrse is by no means uncommon ; and may take place at any part of the spinal column. It is probably of most frequent Occurrence in the dorsal region; caused by falling on the breech, from a considerable height, with consequent forci- ble bending of the trunk forwards. The posterior ligamentous apparatus gives way, to a greater or less extent, and a hiatus between the spinous processes results. The symptoms, in addition to the marks of displace- Fig. 309. Dislocation of the spine ; between the fourth and fifth cervical verte- hrffi. The patient [fell backwards over a high paling, ajid alighted on his head. (Jord torn. Complete paralysis. Issue fatal, within a few days. Fig. 310. The same ; seen laterally.