595 WOUNDS OF THE TEMPORAL ARTERY. rocess of reparation. Should the inflammatory process supervene, and advance to suppuration, either in the limited or in the diffuse form, early incision is demanded ; in the one case, to evacuate pus, and prevent accu- mulation ; in the other, to hmit its formation and prevent infiltration. When the areolar tissue beneath the occipito frontalis' expansion is im- plicated in the latter event, incision is required to he especially early and free; not only to avert destruction to texture, but also to prevent, or moderate, implication of the all-important cranial contents. These, indeed, must be duly regarded, throughout the whole period of treat- ment, as in simple contusion. Punctured wounds of the scalp, usually oblique and penetrating, are hvays important; being very apt to be followed by severe inflammatory lischief; and at an early period, and on this account, demanding inci- I in. In such cases the matter collects and tends to extend its limits in dependent direction—its presence usually indicated by a tumid state of the integument, suffused with a reddish blush ; and a probe intro- need through the wound will always find its way to the part so affected. Here it is, then, that a counter-opening should be made. As a general rule, it may be stated that the inflammatory process ill the scalp must always be treated with great activity. First, because the textures are unfavourable for safe advancement of the process ; they are vascular, tense, unyielding, fibrous; the affection is apt to be acute j the inflammatory product is copious and rapidly formed ; the accommo- tlation afforded by the textures is insufficient; tension ensues, and, as usual, aggravation follows thereon; suppuration is speedy, and apt to lie diffuse; and the pus tends to burrow rapidly, and in all respects ilestructively, beneath the fibrous structures. Secondly, the part affected is in close and dangerous proximity to the cranial contents ; and these are apt to be involved in a secondary, but not less important disease. Wounds of the Temporal Artery. Arteriotomy.—Under rare circumstances it is deemed advisable to abstract blood, with a remedial object in view, trom an artery. The temporal artery is the nly one so situated as to render it suitable I'jr this operation; and, although the main tnmk may readily enough be opened, the anterior branch is usually selected. Being 'lite subcutaneous, it is of easy access; and, ';mg also placed immediately over resisting '"^ne, it is favourably situated for hemostatic ["Imposes, A suitable part of the vessel havmg been fixed upon (and where it just ''«gins to be covered by the hairy scalp is ■iually most convenient), it is steadied by ' "e fingers of the left hand, while a lancet, '^noved by those of the right, is made to perforate, but not to divide, "e arterial tube, in an obliquely transverse direction. The entrance Fig. 232. Compress applied to the temporal artery, after arteriotomy. Fig. 232.