269 CARBUNCLE. tlie neck, and thighs. At the same time, the face is no stranger to boils. There, as elsewhere, they seldom occur singly. The swelling is of a conical shape ; its apex yellow ; its base hard, red, and exquisitely painful. The pus is superficial; the core is at the base. If left to itself, the boil bursts at the apex; and the matter escapes by a single aperture. Sometimes this is sufficient to permit a fi-ee passage to the core, when loose ; more frequently, it is insufficient for this purpose. On purulent discharge taking place, the pain, heat, and surrounding swelling usually abate. But subsidence is not complete, until slough, as well as matter, has been extruded; the former, so long as retained, acting the part of a foreign body, and maintaining inflam- matory disorder. The predisposing cause is derangement of the primes vite, and con- sequently of secretion in general. The exciting may be. some direct stimulus of the part; as by a prick, scratch, or evulsion of hair. Not unfrequently, no exciting cause exists; the predisposing, alone, is suffi- cient. Treatment.—^During the nascent condition of the inflammatory pro- cess, fomentation is used ; with water-dressing, or poultice. In cases of pecuhar irritability and suffering, relief may be obtained by free incision, at the outset, so as thoroughly to relieve tension. On suppuration having occurred, an incision is made in the apex; sufficient to ensure discharge, not only of the pus, but of the slough also. If an opening already exist, it is dilated; for the Hke piu'pose. The part is kept at rest; and, after ejection of the core, the granulating wound is dressed in the ordinary way. Constitutional treatment—not the least important—consists of pm^gatives, followed by alteratives; to cleanse and rectify the primse vise. And somewhat of the antiphlogistic regimen should be enjoined throughout the whole process of cure. To prevent relapse, experience speaks in favour of two very opposite reme- dies ; alkalies, and mineral acids. The ordinary gastric indications will determine which class of remedies is the more suitable. ANTHEAX, OE CAEBUNCLE. This is more extensive, and, consisting as it were of a congeries of Ijoils, is altogether more important, than the preceding. The inflamma- tory process is acute in its seizure and progress, but speedily attended by symptoms indicative of grave constitutional depression, and a tendency to slougliing and destruction of tissue. The aff'ection is not prone to pread rapidly as in phlegmonous erysipelas, and possesses this further fference, that in carbuncle the skin seems to be primarily and chiefly itected. The cutis becomes enormously thickened by the accumulation ' t mflammatory product among its textures, whereby it is not only qjanded in bulk, but becomes brawny to the touch. A section, in the ' 'jrly stage, displays the skin, so altered, studded with a number of pea- IIke yellow masses, which, towards the centre and surface of the affected iprtion of skm, are larger and softer ; constituting, when completely con- 'I'lent, a carbuncular abscess. When the loaded cutis is left to itself,