1298 MORBUS COXARIUS. and capaLililies. ]?ut, too frequently, tlie morbid process advances. Pain and tenderness increase ; the hip becomes swoln ; and the thigh is increasingly flexed on the pelvis. A bulging is observable behind the trochanter; and this bone seems displaced somewhat backwards. En- largement also may form over the groin ; and the SM'ellings may be felt to fluctuate. Opening and evacuation ultimately take place ; with one of the two results already stated. In this, the second stage, shortening of the limb is observed; the toes resting on the ground, without any advancement of the limb. As the shortening increases, the toes may not reach the ground at all; but, turning inwards, may dangle over the opposite member, as in dislocation. Or the toes may be everted, as in fracture of the neck of the thigh bone. And it is supposed that comparative destruction of the acetabulum tends to inversion, while comparative destruction of the head of the bone favours aversion of the foot—a matter of some importance, were such symptoms infallible, in deciding upon the propriety of excision of the head of the femur in advanced cases of the disease. This actual short- ening of the limb is plainly symptomatic of organic change in the joint; disorganization of hard tissues as well as soft, destruction of the upper and posterior lip of the acetabulum, and abridgment of the head of the femur. And towards such shortening, no doubt, a spastic action of the muscles of the hip contributes materially, by forcing the aflfected bones, softened and spongy in their texture, against each other, until the remains of the head of the femur pass clear of the acetabulum. The hip appears more and more broad and prominent; though really flat and wasted ; apparent enlargement depending on atrophy of the rest of the limb, with twisting of the pelvis. As disorganization advances within, the joint becomes more and more loose ; and dislocation may occur, by muscular action alone—without the intervention of a fall or other injury. The dislocation is usually upwards, on the dorsum of the ilium ; and this event is of course followed by increase of shortening in the limb, and by a still greater and more marked deformity of the hip. Matter, in gene- ral, continues to form; and is evacuated at various points ; at the groin, behind the trochanter, in the thigh. 'Not unfrequently, perforation of the acetabulum takes place; and then the matter may accumulate within the pelvis, fatally; or it may again make its way outwards, through the sciatic notch, and discharge itself at some part of the hip or thigh; or evacuation may take place by the rectum. Structural change may ad- vance from bad to worse; the patient perishing of hectic. Or anchy- losis may take place ; the patient recovering with a stiff joint, and a slirunk and deformed limb. In the case of dislocation—by no means of frequent occurrence—it sometimes happens that disease ceases, and the head of the bone acquires a new recij)ient cavity on the dorsum of the ilium. More frequently, however, the head of the bone seems to act as a foreign body in its new site, and causes much inflammatory excitement Acute affection of the synovial apparatus in the hip—by some termed the Acute form of Morbus Coxarius—shews the ordinary characters of synovial disease. There is rapid and uniform sAvelling of the part, with acute pain in the hip, thigh, and knee, much increased by movement and pressure; the thigh is bent upward, by spastic action of the muscles;