COUCHING AND RECLINATION. 721 tlie. two divisions of the long ciliary artery, which vessel usually bifur- cates at a distance of two or thi'ee lines from the corneal margin ; also avoiding wound of the retina and of the ciliary body. The needle, having entered, is pushed steadily forwards, between the iris and the lens. Ey depressing the hand a very little, its point is brought into contact with the upper part of the lens, the concavity of the instrument being opposed to that body. By now elevating the hand, the lens is depressed towards the bottom of the eye, gently and steadily; and the instrument, having been allowed to rest there for a few moments—de- taining the displaced body, till the vitreous humour closes over it—is gently extricated and withdrawn. The eye is now closed, cotton wool, with a light bandage, is applied, and the ordinary precautions against inflammatory access are to be adopted, as after extraction. Comparative facility of performance is in favour of depression. But the objections are, 1st, the risk of injuring important parts by the needle when its point is out of sight; 2d, the frequent occurrence of chronic nflammatory mischief, in consequence of the displaced body pressing upon or irritating the retina and ciliary processes, inducing disorganiza- .gn of the vitreous humour; and, 3c?, the possibility of the lens rising ain into the pupil, and obstructing the transmission of light. Beclination is a modification of depression. The instrument used, d the manner of introducing it, are the same as in the operation for Fig. 261. 1 2 Pig. 262. Fig. 263. fpression; but the lens, instead of being completely dislocated and shed downwards, is simply supposed to be turned backwards into the ptom of the vitreous humour, with its anterior surface directed upwards, Id nearly on a level with the lower edge of the pupil. Less injury is |ne to the retina than in depression ; but rising of the lens into the lis of vision is at least equally probable. Accordingly, depression and phnation are now-a-days rarely employed in Europe, for the reasons ready assigned; but in India couching is still extensively practised by "iiye oculists—a lancet and a minute flat copper spatula or probe being ' instruments employed—and the alleged success which they have in Fig. 261. Depression.—From Wharton Jonbs. Fig. 262. Scarpa's needle. 1, Front view. 2, Side view. Fig. 263. Reclination.—From "Wharton Jones. 3 A