57 ANTIMONY, against which wo aie afraid to employ opium alone and unmodified in its effects.^ Antimony is a valuable antiphlogistic ; usually given in the form of potassio-tartrate or tartarizod antimony. Its effect varies according to the amount of dose. An aqueous solution, containing a sixtli, or eighth of a grain, repeated every two hours, will produce diaphoresis j overcoming the arid state of the skin, and undoing one of the most characteristic symptoms of inflammatory fever. A quai-ter of a grain, similarly repeated, not only proves diaphoretic, but also nauseates, and exerts a sedative influence on the general circula- tion, and that independently of previous loss of blood. Of course, it will prove a more powerfully depressing agent when bloodletting has been premised; but it is important to bear in mind, that such precedence is not so necessary to its antiphlogistic effect, as in the case of opium. Consequently, in many inflammatory affections, neither themselves very intense nor seated in important parts, antimony, single-handed, may effect the desired depression; leaving the veins unbereft of their all- important contents. In the dose of from half a grain to a grain, repeated every two hours, a still more truly antiphlogistic influence, resembling the mercurial, seems to be exerted; modifying the constitution of the blood, limiting local organic change, favouring absorption, and so tending to restore normal texture and function. And this effect seems to be most distinctly shewn in inflammatory affections of internal organs. Thus employed, antimony is not a mere duphcate of mercury. The debilitating effects of calomel—when sakelessly given—are insidious, protracted, and bode evil for the future; those of antimony, though producing far more de- pression and debility, are only temporary. Mercury having done its stipu- lated work, tends to leave enfeebling effects for some weeks to come ; antimony, on the contrary, where almost poisonous effects have been pro- duced, takes its leave at once, and is heard of no more. When, there- fore, a case occurs in which either medicine may seem to be equally able to relieve the part effectually, antimony is decidedly preferable. Again, both may be advisable remedies in the same disease; each employed at its own appropriate period of the case. Thus, in meningitis following injuries of the head, full doses of antimony are most likely to relieve in the early stage, while the morbid excitement is recent and in progress ; and at a more advanced period, when inflammatory results are to be dealt with, greater reliance may be placed in the effect of mercury. For, as for- merly stated, this seems not only to favour absorption of recent and fluid product, but also to be capable of undoing that which is of older date, and some way advanced in organization; softening it, and so fitting it to be taken away by absorption. In this country, the doses of antimony seldom range higher than those abeady specified; but, on the Continent, when given as a contra- * Dr. Graves' well-known formula is as follows :— 5" Tart, antimonii . . . Gr. iv. Tinct. oi)ii .... 5i. Mixt. camphorae, . , , §viij Sig.—A table spoonful every two hours.