108-i TllEATMENT OF VESICAL CALCULUB. prol)al)ly will come to project through the aperture of communication. On such projecting portion, deposit takes place with greater rapidity • and then Ave may expect the symptoms of stone to he revived more or less intensely. Occasionally, the stono undergoes spontaneous disrup- tion ; sometimes after unusual violence of exercise, sometimes in connec- tion Avith no assignable cause. In such cases, the stone is usually phosphatic; the particles being more loosely aggregated tlian in tlni uiic or mulberry concretions. The event is generally to be regarded as untoward, when the stone is of any considerable size. A stone of considerable size, spontaneously disintegrated, may be expelled by the urethra, Avithout much suffering, and Avith no danger; but in most cases, unless speedy relief be afforded by our art, the issue is almost certainly fatal. The sharp irregular fragments inflict great iujury on the urinai-y organs; some may obstruct the urethra, causing retention of urine, with its various calamitous results ; the rest excite cystitis, acute Fig. 332. and intense ; the bladder becomes filled with coagulated blood, and fi-om this cause a formidable retention of urine may result; the kidneys sympathize ; and, imder a complication of disorders, the system is apt to be overborne. Lately a case occurred under my observation, in which the immediate perils of retention by coagula in the bladder were got over, as also the first brunt of the cystitis ; but at the end of the third week, the patient perished by abdominal peritonitis, found to result from extravasation of urine through perforating ulcer of the bladder. In a few very rare cases, ulceration of the coats of the bladder has had the happy effect of permitting spontaneous extrusion of the stone ; through the abdominal parietes in the hypogastric region ; through the perinseum into the rectum ; or into the vagina. But such a result, so rare, hazardous, and improbable, manifestly cannot be taken into account in consideration of ordinary treatment. Treatment of Stone in the Bladder. No treatment can be adopted Avith propriety, until an absolute assurance has been obtained of the existence of stone. Fig. 332. Bladder containing a calculus in fragments. Spontaneously disrupted. Termination fatal ; by inflammator)' results.—LisxoN. Elements, p. 633.