PHYMOSIS. 1249 Like the congenital form, it is to be relieved only by operation. And this may bo performed in various ways. 1. A simple and very suitable mode consists of inserting a director into the prep^^tial ca\nty between the prepuce and dorsum of the glans penis; retaining it either where introduced, or by the side of the fra3- num, a sharp-pointed curved bistoury is carried along the groove ; and, transfixing the foresldn, all is divided from behind forwards. Before using the knife, especially when the parts are much tuniified by inflam- matory change, the surgeon should make sure that the director's point is in the preputial cavity, and not in the urethra. The dorsal site of the incision is chosen in acute cases, when we believe that ulceration exists within, in order that the tension of the parts and pressure of the pre- puce upon the surface of the sore may be as thoroughly relaxed as possible, while plenty of room is afforded for the escape of discharge and the application of dressings. In cases where the prepuce is dark from venous engorgement, enormously swoln, and threatening to slough, the wings left on either side by the dorsal incision should be removed by curved scissors, applied along the line of the balano-preputial furrow. Wlien the pre- putial tissues are in a perfectly normal condition, except at the orifice, simple section of the parts is by many recommended to be made by the side of the frsenum—as here a less amount of wound suffices ; the glans is equally well exposed; and, after cicatrization, no unseemliness results, nor is there any departure from the normal relative position of the parts. This, however, may be but a doubtful advantage; as in many cases the apparently unseemly flaps, left by the dorsal section, afterwards retract, and leave only a slight redundant fold of integument on either side behind the glans penis; while the large, loose, bag-like, irregularly-formed fold of texture, sometimes left after the lateral section, may be not only un- seemly at the time, but may become more and more so—besides affording an inviting surface for the invasion of chancres at any future period. To prevent resilience of the integument from the mucous membrane, and thereby avoid an unnecessary extent of raw surface, a point of suture on each side is required; and this is retained, until spontaneously freed by ulceration, or until consolidation has taken place—whereby the natural resilience is obviated. When, however, sores are found to exist within the divided prepuce, the cut surface should be destroyed by means of the saturated solution of perchloride of iron; and thereafter the chancrous surface is to be got rid of by means either of the iron likewise, or—better —by caustic potash, or nitric acid. 2. When the prepuce is redundant in front of the glans, the following operation is suitable :—An obUque line corresponding to the anterior third of the glans penis is marked upon the ]irepuce, the extremity of which is then drawn forwards until the mark ( Icars the point of the glans. A pair of dressing forceps are then made to compress the foreskin immediately behind the black line, so as to keep the glans out of harm's way, and at the same time to assist in steady- ing the cutaneous textures as they are divided by a stroke of the bistoury. In this way, a mere ring of the cutaneous and areolar tissues of the pre- ])uce is removed by the operator. Circumcision, in fact, is performed; l)ut only to a limited extent. The skjn is found free enough, but the mucous membrane still tightly covers the glans ; this is now sl,it up, 4 L