ABSORPTION OF BONE. * Stanley on Di.sen.sos of Bone, p. 7. 27G function of the limb. " Atrophied hone is, in some instances, simply tUminished in size ; in others its walls are thinned, and its cells Avidencd ; and, occasionally, the cancellous texture wholly disappears, and the hone' after maceration presents tlio characters of the hone of a bird, with its simi^le tube and thin walls."* Atrophy, like hypertrophy, may affect both the thickness and lengtli of the bone ; and serious results ensue. In the lower limb, for example, the resulting lameness may be great. A fiat bone, as of the skull, wlien atrophied ceases to be an efficient protector of important parts beneath ; and fracture is rendered possible from even slight force. In the way of treatment, but little is in our power. In some cases, as already stated—when the cause seems to be inaction of the pait— resumption of function may not only arrest the untoward change, iDut do sometliing for its cure. If a scrofulous or rickety state of system exist, benefit will follow appropriate constitutional treatment. Absorption of Bone. This may be more or less connected with the inflammatory process, but, as a special form of disease, is altogether independent of its higher grades. 1. Interstitial.—By interstitial absorption affecting the whole of a bone, atrophy is produced, as just noticed. But perhaps a more impor- tant surgical affection is interstitial absorption affecting a part of a bone, by means of which its dense laminated portion is converted into a can- cellated texture, its surface presenting a worm-eaten appearance (Figs. 39, 40, p. 153). Structurally, the process begins in the lacunae of the bone. Here the corpuscles undergo multiplication; the calcareous elements of the siuTounding walls are proportionately diminished; the lacunae are thus enlarged ; two or three coalesce ; and thus the process extends; a medullary fatty vascular substance occupymg the spaces thus formed, for the supply of Avhich, an additional quantity of blood being required, the Haversian canals become enlarged, and vessels permeate from them Into the new tissue, which becomes more and more thoroughly vascular in proportion to the extent of area implicated, and the completeness of the disturbance of the natural process of nutrition, characterised by the com- pleteness of the removal of the calcareous elements of the bone. Tliis may be a slow, insidious process ; non-inflammatory ; obscurelj'' marked by dull uneasiness or acliing in the part, oedema of the superimposed soft tissues, and Hvidity by passive congestion of the integument. The part feels weak; when used, it becomes soon the seat of pain as well as of fatigue, and at the same time the swelling is increased. In itself the change is important, in as far as it entails alteration of structure, and impairment of function. But it derives its cliief interest from being liable to prove the precursor of the much more formidable kind of structural derangement—ulceration of bone. The cranium and metacarpal bones are often so affected. Sometimes a similar change seems to be produced more rapidly and I decidedly, by a crescent inflammatory process, which results in ulcerative i