1148 THE SOFT NON-INFECTING CHANCKE. lu treatment, early application is of the greatest importance. For it is only by early treatment that we can be certain of success in the ectrotic attempt, so as to prevent lymphatic absorption and the occm-rence of bubo. All practitioners of experience in such diseases are agreed that, at as early a period as possible, wo should root out the disease; " punch- ing it out," as it were ; converting the poisoned ulcer into a simple sore ; preserving the patient from the risk of bubo, from the occurrence of phagedsena, from extension and multiplication of the sore, and from communicating it to another person. For this purpose, a tnie escharotic is freely applied; the fuming nitric acid, the acid pernitrate of mercury, mono-hydrated sulphuric acid mixed with charcoal powder, saffron, or sulphate of zinc ; or what is more certain, the potassa fusa or chloride of zinc—pointed, inserted accurately within the sore, and pressed there firmly, so as thoroughly to destroy not only its surface but its edges, and include an atmosphere of healthy tissue around—the fluid exudation being wiped up, as it threatens to overflow, by means of blotting-paper. When the action of the caustic has been deemed sufficient, the surface is dressed with dry lint, or charpie, so as to protect the adjacent or opposed parts. Water-dressing is afterwards applied, until the eschar separates. Should the discharge, in contact with the eschar, prove foetid, the weak chlorinated lotion may be employed—wliile the slough separates. After it has come away, the surface is anxiously scanned. If it present the characters of a simple and healthy sore, water-dressing is continued; and as healing advances red lotion may be substituted. If, however, the tawny surface and angry appearance of a still virulent ulcer show themselves^ the escharotic is "reapplied. And such repetition is carried out, from time to time, until a satisfactory clearing has been obtained. When, however, destruction has been thorough at first, there should be no need for any repetition. If healing once begun is delayed, and the granulations threaten exu- berance, there is no better plan than to touch the elevated surface, every second day, with the nitrate of silver lightly; applying water-dressing intermediately. During the treatment, whatever the condition of the sore or stage of amendment, rest is of the greatest importance ; and the organ should also be suspended by a handkerchief, bandage, or strip of adhesive plaster. When the patient cannot bring himself to submit to the use of caustic, we have comparatively little control over the progress of the sore, or power to prevent the complication already mentioned. A weak astringent lotion frequently employed, so as to harden the surrounding cutaneous or mucous surfaces, to diminish the quantity of discharge, and to render it innocuous, with a careful attention to cleanliness, constitute the principal items of treatment. For this purpose, solutions of the sulphates of copper or zinc, of the strength of two grains to the ounce of water—or of chloride of zinc (gr. i. ad o i.)—will answer better than any other. When the sores exist under cover of a prepuce -which cannot be retracted, so as to expose the surface for the purpose of cleansing away the discharge, and applying caustic, or lint soaked in an astringent lotion, to the surface, it may be necessary to slit up the prepuce and denude the glans ; or we may gain our end by injecting the lotion within