AUXILIARIES TO THE TAXIS. lOU of the other hand, so as to disentangle and free the part most compacted and compressed. And this is steadily persevered in, for some time, pro- vided the patient do not complain greatly of aggravation of pain and general uneasiness. Our wish is to push the hernial contents hack, not in mass, but in detail; those going first which were last protruded. The patient, if not chloroformed, is kept in conversation, to prevent him from straining his abdominal muscles in involuntary opposition to the operator. There is energy, yet no violence of force in the pressure; and it is pa- tiently and steadily maintained, yet not continued too long—that is, not after reasonable hope of its success has passed, and when its maintenance must inevitably tend to serious aggravation of the crescent inflammatory process.* Sometimes it is not applicable at all; when, for example, the case is acute, and has made great progress ere assistance is called ; when the parts are so obviously intolerant of pressure, as to convey to the practised hand and mind the apprehension of textui-e giving way by rup- ture under an attempted taxis; also, when we are satisfied that inflam- matory change has already gone so far as to render loss of substance, either by ulceration or by sloughing, inevitable in the constricted parts. Sometimes benefit accrues from an opposite direction of gentle force, previous to the reductive application of it; bringing down the jammed neck from the abdominal aperture, and so favouring clearance of the passage by an unravelling, as it were, of its contents; causing, in fact, a slight increase of the descent, before the whole is attempted to be re- placed. A bluff forcing of the fundus of the tumour on its neck is especially to be avoided, when replacement is intended; for the effect of this, in the case of protruded bowel, is not only to jam the parts yet more, but actually to favour formidable accession to the tumour's bulk by traction irom. the aperture downwards. By some it is thought that much may be done by position alone ; flexing the thighs, rotating the limbs inward {for inguinal and femoral hernia—especially the latter), raising the nates till the whole weight rests on the shoulders, retaining this position for a time, then lowering and raising again, the hand of the surgeon meanwhile making gentle pressure on the tumour. It is thought that the posturing tends to pull the con- tents out of their sac. Tailing in the well-applied taxis, we naturally look for Auxiliaries to it; and we find a catalogue of these, analogous to the aids of reduction in dislocation. Some act on the contents of the tumour, tending to reduce bulk ; others affect the abdominal outlet, tending to enlarge space by relaxing the abdominal parietes—making easy room, either way, for replacement of the dislocated parts. And here it may be stated, that though in many cases the abdominal outlet is in the first instance free from change, and constriction depends on alteration in the contents ; yet, strangulation having occurred, the abdominal parietes at the site of the hernia become involved in perverted action, and sooner or later are irritated into spasm. And hence it is, that the most useful auxi- liaries are such as tend to abdominal relaxation. * For a sample of the injuries done by impradent taxis, see Teale on Hernia, p. 96.