STAPHYLOMA OF THE CORNEA. G91 When the staphj'loma is large, the iris, being iinahlo to expand to the same extent as the pseudo-cornea, is torn and separated from the choroid; and when the staphyloma has been removed, the iris is found in contact Avith its posterior surface, broken up and in shreds. This does not occur in a small or partial staphyloma. Vision in total staphy- loma is completely destroyed. For the treatment of a small partial staphyloma, the less that is done the better; except to guard against any tendency to inflammatory acces- sion. If it be large and implicate the pupil, tlie projection may be diminished, by touching it from time to time with some caustic—as the caustic potass—in order to produce condensation and contraction; which the caustic does by producing a slough ; this separates, leaving an ulcer, which cicatrizes by contraction. When the patient is blind of the other eye, and the displacement of the pupil, or its complete implica- tion, renders the patient blind altogether; then either the iris may be cut through, close to its point of cohesion to the cicatrix within the par- ial staphyloma, so as to allow the membrane to retract; or an artificial upil may be made, at a point corresponding to a clear part of the ornea. In the total staphyloma, relief is sometimes obtained by puncturing t from time to time with a large cataract needle, and allowing the queous humour to escape; when the projection collapses. As the queous humour, however, becomes almost invariably reproduced in the ame or even greater quantity; and as the staphyloma is a great eformity, besides keeping up a constant state of irritation which is apt to xtend to the other eye, its removal shoxild be recommended, so that the lobe may be allowed to collapse permanentl}', the cut surface to heal, and _ artificial eye to be worn. In removing a staphyloma, the eyelids eing kept open by means of a spring speculum, the base of the tumour transfixed with a cataract knife, from its temporal to the nasal side, a ttle below its transverse diameter; the knife is then pushed on, and a ap, of the upper half of the projection, is formed as it cuts itself out. his flap is seized with a pair of forceps, and that part of the base of e staphyloma which remains uncut is divided with curved scissors, d the whole removed. The lens and some of the vitreous humour en escape; but the stump which remains suits admirably for an tificial eye. After the operation, a pledget of lint soaked in cold ater, a pad of cotton wadding, or a wet sponge, should be kept applied on the eyelids, and retained by means of a bandage ; to prevent bleed- g into the cup-shaped cavity, and to keep the parts thoroughly at rest, severe reaction supervene, it is to be treated by active antiphlogistics. ould the staphylomatous eye have occasioned sympathetic irritation in e sound eyeball, excision of the globe should be practised as a more rtain method of securing relief* * VUe Wharton Jones' Manual, p. 186, et scq, and London Med. Gazette, vol. 1- p. 847 ; Bowman, Lectures on the parts concerned in the operations on the eye,