CHAPTER LV. HEENIA. t By Hernia is understood a protrusion from within an internal cavity, of part of the contents of that cavity. But the term is usually limited to the most frequent form of such protrusion—namely, that from the cavity of the ahdomen. And of this Hernia there are varieties, according to the site of the protrusion ; Inguinal and Ventro-inguinal, Femoral, Um- bilical, Ventral, Phrenic, Perineal, Vaginal, Lal^ial, Obturatorial, Iscliiatic, Diaphragmatic. These, again, may vary according to the anatomical re- lation of their parts—Congenital, Infantile ; and according to the parts protruded—Enterocele, Epiplocele, Entero-epiplocele, Hernia Litrica. And, further, other varieties depend on the pathological condition of parts—Reducible, Irreducible, Incarcerated, Strangulated. The Causes of Hernia are predisposing and exciting. "Whatever weakens the abdominal parietes at any point, predisposes to protrusion at that point;—natural want of closeness of development, as at the groin and navel; rupture of muscle and fascia, at any part, as in parturition ; atrophy of muscle, following bruise ; penetrating wound. Again, what- ever tends to propel the abdominal contents with unusual force against such weakened or predisposed parts, directly excites or causes the protru- sion ; as violent coughing, straining at stool, leaping, riding, or severe muscular exertion of any kind, especially such as produces powerful con- traction of the diaphragm. And, further, the predisposing and exciting cause may be the same. Cough, straining, or habitual exertion of the abdominal muscles in any way, when long continued, tend to weaken and enlarge the natural outlets of the cavity, by constantly propelling the abdominal contents against the parietes—and thus prove predispos- ing. And then some sudden cough or strain effects protrusion, and proves the exciting cause. Hence it is, that sailors, gymnasts, and old men with coughs and urinary complaints, are especially subject to the ordinary forms of this disease. The component parts of the tumour vary according to the nature of the protrusion. But, generally, they may be stated to consist of Cover- ings, Sac, and Contents. The Coverings are far from uniform ; differing in the varieties of Hernia, and being seldom exactly the same in any two cases. In in- guinal and femoral hernia, for example, the coverings differ widely ; and in each of these affections, the density, thickness, and even number of the investing layers, depend very much on accidental circumstaiices. In operating, it is vain to look for an unvarying sameness in this part of the tumour. In all cases of ordinary hernia, however, there is first the