TUMOURS OF THE TESTICLE. 1230 tia. This fungus may bo repressed in the ordinary way ; and solid and permanent cicatrization may occur. But, sometimes, a fistulous opening remains, discliarging tliin pus, with occasionally also the secretion of the tubuli ; and then the condition of Spermatic Fistula is said to be established. Treatment varies according to the stage of advancement. In the indolent state, discussives are employed, along with antistrumous consti- tutional treatment; and gradual subsidence of the swelling may result. In the softened state, incision is suitable ; for evacuation. If then the amount of product and suppuration seem slight, cicatrization is to be attempted. If, however, as is more frequently the case, suppuration and product are extensive, it is well to favour speedy disintegration and dis- charge of the abnormal mass, by free use of the caustic potass. After- wards, pressure, by strapping, is of much use in procuring closure and cure. Sometimes, the tubercular matter protrudes slightly; but this is readily distinguished from the true fungus which is composed of the substance of the gland, by being of less size, soft, crumbling, varying, temporary, and requiring the destructive use of an escharotic. Sometimes the extent of suppuration and disorganization in the part, and the degree of disturbance in the constitution, are such as to call for more summaiy procedure ; and to save gradual exhaustion of the system by hectic, the part has to be sacrificed, by castration. This, however, is to be avoided if possible; as, very frequently, the other testicle becomes similarly affected. And the disease, moreover, is liable to develope itseK in other sites—as in the prostate gland, and the lungs. In the indolent stage of scrofulous testicle, and during the progress of simple enlargement dependent on chronic orchitis, it is not uncommon for serum to accumulate in greater or less quantity ; masking the charac- ter of the tumour, and increasing its apparent bulk. It is detected by its site, extent, translucency, and fluctuation. If the accumulation prove considerable, occasional removal by tapping is of use ; permitting the discussive applications to act more eflS.ciently on the solid enlargement. Tumours of the Testicle. These were wont to be included under the general term Sarcocele. The most common is the simple enlargement dependent on chronic orchitis. The scrofulous swelling is not uncommon. Occasionally tlae fibrous tumour is found. Cystic sarcoma is as frequently formed here as in any other situation. Scirrhus, open or occult, is not of common occurrence. Medullary cancer has no more frequent site ; sometimes, though rarely, it is combined with melanosis ; and sometimes the open medullary tumour degenerates into the condition of Fungus Ha^ma- todes. These tumours present the ordinary characters, and require tlie ordinary treatment. The simple enlargements are capable of discussion. The strumous may be either discussed or disintegrated. The rest can be removed only by castration. Prognosis, in the case of malignant forma- tion.s, may be more favourable here than at any otlier site.