TREATMENT BY ACIDS. 1193 taken their own treatment, been found to afford satisfactory results— apparently assisting the tendency which the disease undoubtedly mani- fests, to wear itself out in process of time. The Nitric and Hydrochloric Acids Avere long ago recommended in the treatment of this disease. The former, more particularly, was consi- dered by Eeddoes, Scott, Kellie, Kollo, Cruickshank, Hammick, Albers, Hoist, and others, as specially efficacious. Mr. Pearson, however, gave the nitric acid a fair trial, and his testimony, as well as that of others, was decidedly against its trustworthiness. These remedies may be em- ployed as lotions to the original sore, or to the cutaneous eruptions and affections of the mucous membranes, or as an addition to the warm bath ; and when used internally, are given in water or any other suitable vehicle. In old and debilitated subjects, in syphilitic rheumatism, or in syphilis occumng in patients in whom there is well-marked atony of system from any cause—or as a tonic course of treatment after the use of mercurials or iodides has been carried too far—nitric or muriatic acid, both as an addition to tepid batliiug and as an internal remedy, will be found attended with the best results. Dietetic, Hygienic, and Tonic Treatment is, in syphilis as in all other diseases where mal-assimilation constitutes a marked feature of their progress, of the greatest importance. Any one uniform plan of dietetic treatment, in regard to syphilis, has rarely been employed; although "the Hunger Cure"* and "the dry treatment"! of the Arabians un- doubtedly partake of this more nearly than any other. Neither does the affection in its different stages admit of any one constant system of dietetic regimen. For example, during the persistence of the sore a stimulating diet is usually unsuitable, while in the chloro-ansemic stage it is almost essential; in the febrile and eruptive periods the use of stimulating articles of food, and more particularly the free indulgence in alcoholic stimulants, is always injurious ; while, again, in the later secondary and tertiary stages their regulated employment may be not only advisable, but even essential When syphilis furthermore occurs in half-starved patients, or in those whose diet is meagre, and not suited to afford any surplus of blood-forming material to the system, the diathesis is in them usually attended by the most serious results; the transitional symptoms appear early, and a gravescent series of tertiary affections may be almost certainly anticipated. Dietetic treatment in syphilis, there- fore, must be a most variable element; requiring much judgment to hold the mean between over-feeding and over-stimulation on the one hand, and too spare a dietary on the other. As a rule, anything wlrich is calculated to induce hepatic derangement is likely to prove injurious; * The Hunger Cure, Cura fames of Sweden, Norway, and Denmark. This con- sists in keeping the patient upon a regimen for six weeks, composed of 5 ounces of roast meat, without gravy or condiment, 6 ounces of white bread soaked in water, in two or three portions, extract of conium 4-6 grains night and morning, with 2 pints of decoction of Sarza for drink. + The Dry treatment of the Arabians is described by M. Benoit of Marseilles as consisting of entire abstinence from all ordinary articles of food ; living meanwhile on biscuit, dried almonds, figs and raisins ; taking for drink in the course of the day only a . glass or'two of decoction of Sarzaparilla ; and swallowing a mercurial pill night and morning. (!)