827 POLYPUS OF THE EAR. the patient has previously heen racked, and wliich large opiates have only piU'tially assuaged. During the advance of suppuration, poultices and fomentation should bo diligently persevered in. When portions of dead and loose bone are detected, they should be removed, if tliis is found practicable. When an xilcerated condition of the bone apparently exists, the greatest care and attention must be paid to the maintenance of cleanliness ; while repeated blisters behind the ear, or to the nape of the neck, will sometimes check the inflammatory accessions which threaten to recur fi-om time to time. CJironic Hypertrophy of the Osseous Wall of the Meatus. This affection may result from an abnormal development, or it may be due to a chi-onic inflammatory process. The degree of contraction of the meatus thus produced may be so considerable as to interfere very seriously with the hearing power. If all traces of the inflammatory pro- cess have subsided, treatment is not likely to avail much, except in rare, cases, where it occurs in adults as a result of syphilis. In such circum- stances, mercurials and iodine internally, with painting of the canal with the tincture of iodine, may be tried cautiously. Polypus and other Affections of the Ear. Two forms of polypi may form on any part of the lining membrane .of the meatus externus—usually from that deeper part close to the membrana mpani, but never growing from that membrane;—one soft and pnlpy, and of a florid vascular aspect—the " vascular polypus "—analogous to the common mucous polypus of the nose; the other more firm and fleshy, resembling rather the solid polypi of the uterus, the " fibrogelatinous polypus;" both simple in structure and tendency. Deafness is occa- (sioned, along with uncomfortable sensations in the part; and more or less discharge escapes, of a puriform and ofl'ensive character. Treatment is by evulsion; forceps being employed for this purpose. These forceps may work in difi'erent ways. The simplest are straight, with thin blades, and rounded, or ring-like, and well-roughened extremities, with a binding catch sliding upon the slender blades. Mr. Toynbee recommends the jlever ring canula forceps; an ingenious adaptation, for the ear, of the ismaller instrument of like kind employed in operations on the eye. (Others recommend instruments working in a canula, like the old litho- Ilabe, on a miniature scale. Mr. Wilde of Dublin uses a " snare " of silver wire, conducted by a jointed stem, and drawn tight around the polypus |by moving a sHding cross bar to which the ends of the wire noose are jattached. By the use of the tubular ear-speculum, cautiously introduced, hsi site of growth is ascertained ; then seizure is made of the root of the . wth by forceps or snare ; and by slight torsion, combined with evulsion, sxtirpation is effected. Or the attachment may be divided by means of small blunt-pointed scissors, with angled shanks. Should bleeding occur, obscuring our view of the root of the growth, and preventing further efforts to effect its removal, this may be easily arrested at once by inject- ing the tincture of matico mixed with water into the canal. When