434 ARTERIAL VARIX. and tortuous veins, is in general most conveniently treated by deligation. Wlien small, and on an external part, however, it may be excised. The first form of growth, or naevus, may be excised safely enough; if the deformity bo deemed a sufficient warrant for so severe a measure. In the majority of cases, it will bo better to content ourselves with induc- ing ulceration. The potass, needle, and vaccination, will here be found suitable. Not unfrequently, what seems to be but a naevus in the infant, grows into an erectile tumour during childhood or adolescence. Another form of nsevus consists merely of discolorati(m. Vesication may be tried; by the nitrate of silver, or otherwise. But, in truth, the affection is so trivial as scarcely to call for interference. Arterial Varix, or Circoid Aneurism. By this term is meant a dilated and tortuous condition of an artery, due to dilatation of its coats in fusiform pouches, including only a part of the circumference of the vessel; the condition analogous to what Ls so common in veins. It chiefly occurs in superficial vessels of a minor class; as the branches of the temporal, and the arteries of the fore-arm and hand. But it is comparatively rare. Eelief may be obtained frouj gentle and uniform support, by bandaging. When the affection is limited Fig. 190. and troublesome, compression by ligature may be employed as in varicose veins. I thus destroyed an arterial varix, of some size and great activity, in the web between the thumb and fore-finger of an artist; who attri- buted the origin of the swelling to pressure made by habitual wearing of the palette. Previously to deligation, I had made unsuccessfid trial of acupuncture and galvanism, with a view to obtain consolidation of the arterial contents. AETEEIAL OBSTEUCTIOJ^—EMBOLISM. An artery, we have seen, may bo obstructed by coagulation of its con- tents, with or without inflammatory change in its coats ; and the event may be serious or not, according to the extent and rapidity of such ob- struction. Fig. 190. Arterial varix of the arteries of the pahu. I