PTEllYGIUM. 681 ibtaiueJ in tlio form of ointment as a quack remedy. At first, doubtless, I iiero is mere eulargomcnt of tlie normal stucture ; but, after a time, this is more or less altered by continuance of plastic product; the surface becoming dense as well as prominent, rough, irregular, and sometimes lissured. The upper eyelid is more prone to suffer than the lower. It can be readily understood how such a structure, at each move- ment of the nd, must greatly fret the ocular conjunctiva; causing an rritation there sufficient to Light up the inflammatory process, and more han sufficient to maintain an affection which has been already established, lo remove the alteration of structure, therefore, becomes a most impor- ant therapeutic indication. It used to be the recognised jjlan of treat- ment to cut away these hypertrophied elevations, or to attempt to destroy heir undue vitality by the application of nitrate of silver, or sulphate of copper, in the solid form. Such measures never did any permanent good, and often made matters worse than before, producing incurvation of the Hds, and opacities of the cornea of a most obstinate kind, IsTow- a-days the following applications are all that are employed :—1st. )nsting on acetate of lead, in fine owder, into the interstices of the mlations ; 2d, Painting on the sur- ace of the everted lid a solution of •he acetate of lead ; and, 3d, Applying he tmdiluted liquor potassse, in the ame manner, to the granular surface; th, Inoculating the conjunctival sur- ace with gonorrhoeal matter, so as to pet up an attack of gonorrhoeal ophth- almia, by which it is hoped the opaline ascular structure of the superficial ayers of the cornea may become re- eved, leaving the cornea so far clear to enable the patient to possess some egree of vision. The fourth plan of treatment, as can be readily under- tood, is reserved for otherwise desperate circumstances. The general ealth ought in all cases to be attended to; as the disease frequently ccurs in lymphatic or strumous individuals. Eepose of the eye ought 0 be enjoined, with due attention to diet, exercise, and change of airr Pterygium. Pterygium denotes a vascular and fleshy tliickening of the ocular con- 'mctiva, invading the superficial layers of the cornea. The formation is t a triangular form ; the base resting on the internal or external canthus nd the apex stretching towards the cornea. When of moderate size, and 0 advanced further than the corneal margin, vision is not interfered ; but when it encroaches on the cornea, the afi-ection then ceases to a mere defornnty or inconvenience ; sight is in danger; and remedial oSf. T- '^^T^- • tl^e is thin and membranous; onsistmg.chiefly of varicose vessels hold together by fine areolar tissue! Fig. 248. Granular Conjunctiva. The eyelid everted.