829 AFFECTIONS OF THE MEMBRANA TYMPANI. flammatory clmiigo ; and like all otlier fibrous membranes, tliis is specially apt to occiu- in gouty, rheumatic, and syphilitic subjects. The inflam- matory process may, however, affect the fibrous tissues of the membrane I secondai-ily, having commenced either in the dermal layer, or in the mucous i sm-face lining the tympanic aspect of the membrane. The symptoms may j be either acute or chronic. When acute, the access is sudden—frequently i after exposure to cold. The pain is very severe, deep seated, seeming to s shoot through the whole side of the head and neck, increased on motion \ of the lower jaw, and usually completely preventing sleep. Tliere is alAvays considerable diminution of hearing power, with tinnitus aurium. The pain is also increased by blowing the nose, sneezing, or, in fact, by anytliing which inflates the cavity of the tympanum. In gouty and rheumatic subjects it is remittent, severely acute at night, becoming less intense in the morning. In syphilitic patients it usually accompanies eruptive affections of the cutaneous surface, and must not be mistaken for the morbid states of the tympanic cavity which form a part of the syphilitic diseases of mucous membranes. Unless complicated by the pre- sence of the exanthemata, there is rarely any inflammatory fever present. On examining the meatus by means of the speculum, its vessels will be seen more or less congested ; even the clear translucent spot in its antero- Iinferior part partaldng in the change. Sometimes the morbid alteration is so complete that the whole membrane becomes of a uniform red arterial tint, or by interlaminar extravasation of blood of a dark venous hue. Sometimes the normal concavity is indistinguishable, and it may even be impossible to recognise the site of the handle of the malleus. The treat- ment of such a case should consist in free leeching of the hollow of the auricle aroimd the meatus, cotton being placed in the opening so as to prevent the animals from wandering into the canaL After this, hot opiate fomentations, or dry heat applied by means of warm flannel, or a caoutchouc hot-water bottle, or a bag filled with hot salt, sand, or camomile flower powder, may be used. Opiates should be given to lull pain, and at bed- time to secure sleep ; and in some cases colchicum internally will be found of service; while the use of blisters over the mastoid region, as the acute symptoms subside, wiU be found signally beneficial. Wben the inflam- matory process threatens to become persistent, constitutional treatment suitable to the chronic form should furthermore be employed, jl Chronic infiaramatory change in the fibrous tissue of the memhrana i tympani is always accompanied, when permitted to advance unchecked, by serious structural alteration—such as tliickening, hardening, and even I calcareous degeneration of the membrane; nay, in some cases, by perr Iforation from ulceration. This chronic inflammatory process may superr Kvene upon a preliminary acute attack, or may come on insidiously, and almost painlessly. In all such cases hardness of hearing and tinnitus form the prominent symptoms of which the patient complains, j When the speculum is employed, the membrane will be recognised according to the form and progress of the affection, congested, thickened, pearly white, dotted, and either more rigidly tense or more relaxed than m its normal state. If, on attempting to inflate the tympanic cavity, by Iclosing the nose and mouth, and making a forcible expiratory effort, the