TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. 476 Fig. 201. the purulent secretion; and water-dressing may then be used, as in ordi- nary circumstances. The constitutional treatment is antiphlogistic ; rigidly enforced. In short, our object is to avoid all stimulu.s, both local and constitutional; and thereby to prevent tlie inflammatory access. Such are the means whereby the different modes of cure may ha favoured. Nothing is actually done by surgery itself; our art must rest contented with assisting, or at most directing, the workings of Nature. To the general rules there are found exceptions ; as might naturally have been expected. The most prominent of these, is the use of Twisted suture ; especially suitable to some Avounds of the face ; as for the cure of harelip. Here the rule of delay, previous to coaptation, is transgressed; and with impunity. Also the sutures are permitted to remain until adhesion has been supposed complete. A needle—a common sewing needle, or one made for the purpose with a fiat steel point—is made to transfix the margins of the wound j and is retained. Around it a portion of fine silver wire, or of waxed thread, is passed in the form of the figure 8 ; and by this, the wound's margins are brought and retained in contact. Each needle has its own wire or ligature ; for if union or community of these be attempted, puckering of the edges is very likely to follow. In such a wound as that for harelip, two points of this suture usually suffice. At the end of two or three days, one needle is removed; on the day after, the second is also gently loosened and taken away. But the twisted wires or threads, if adherent and pro- tective, may be left undisturbed. Such wounds, whose superficial extent may vary, but whose depth is ; limited, admit of being retained in close and accui"ate contact at every point; so as to prevent the in- terposition of coagulated blood, or other obstacles to adhesion. Accordingly we find, that when they are brought together at once by the twisted suture, neatly and carefully applied, and when the needles are cautiously removed as early as prudence will allow, adhesion scarcely ever fails to occur. But if—in addition to the points of suture—plasters, pledgets, or other dressings be applied, the rule again becomes absolute that multiplicity of in- vestments are inimical to adhesion; the wound will suppui-ate at one or more points, or throughout even its whole extent. Fig. 201. The twisted suture. Fig. 202. The quilled suture. The dotted lines mark the course of the wire b<' iicath the integument. Fig. 203. Tlie glovers', or coutinued suture ; in wound of the bowel. I Fig. 202. Fig. 203.