TREATMENT OF SHOCK:. 4G5 patient is unaware of this fresh injury ; but, very soon after reaction, the effects of the overdone remedy may hirgely predominate over those of the original accident. Lives have actually been lost by nasal disease, so induced, having extended to the cranial contents. The internal use of stimuli must also be conducted with extreme caution, as to their legitimate effects; being desisted from so soon as circulation is restored satisfactorily; otherwise, danger by excessive reaction can scarcely be escaped. If inflammatory fever set in, along mth local inflammatory change in the injured part, not only are all stimidi scrupulously witlilield, but antiphlogistics are administered as circumstances may demand. If, on the other hand, irritative fever be the result, opium or other narcotics, in guarded doses, are indicated. And it is to be borne in mind that Avhen the shock has been severe and protracted—more especially when it has occurred in a frame previously ■weak—the sthenic period of reaction is apt to be but short; the tendency is to gangrene locally, with typhous seizure of the system; and in such cases the more powerful antiphlogistics must be employed sparingly, if at all. Wlien the injury has been attended with great loss of blood, reaction is seldom or never of the sthenic form, but of the purely nervous kind; and for the assuaging of this, a full opiate is most effectual. Vomiting usually disappears before ordinary restoratives, along with the other symptoms of shock. Should it prove troublesome—as it some- times does, with hiccup—it may be directly treated by a sinapism to the epigastric region, with small doses of the spiritus ammonise aromaticus. Naphtha, creasote, prussic acid, and ice are also useful. And an enema or suppository of morphia, sufficient to induce somnolence, will frequently succeed in checking this exhausting symptom. Thus, the dangers of shock after injury are, 1. Continued depression, sinking, and death; to be met by restoratives ; abstaining from blood- letting, and other sedatives, during the early period of nervous commo- tion. 2. Immature and excessive reaction, of a sthenic and vascular character; to be met by blood-letting or other antiphlogistics ; the use of restoratives being of course refrained from. 3. Excessive reaction, probably remote, of a nervous type; to be met by opiates and other calmatives, cautiously administered. 4. Asphyxia, or other disaster, by the use of stimuli and restoratives ; to be avoided by care, prudence, discretion, and coolnes.s, on the part of the practitionei-. 2 H