845 GLANDULAR AFFECTIONS OF THE NECK. tion. When matter has formed, an early evacuation is practised by incision; the wound being made as minute as possible, and in the direc- tion of the folds of the neck, so that its cicatrix may escape observation. A common lancet is the preferable instrument. Sometimes the use of potass is demanded; the integuments having been much undermined, and the prominent fongating gland requiring disintegration. A blister applied over the part, and for some distance round, will usually, how- ever, serve the same purpose, and appear less formidable to the patient. In the after-treatment of suppurations in the neck, cure is often de- layed by over-dressing the part—covering it with too many envelopes— especially when the patient is not confined to the house. The object of such dressing is to conceal the state of matters from public obser- vation, and to guard against exposure to cold; but the result often is, to maintain a degree of congestion in the part, favourable to continued suppuration, and unsuited to contraction and consolidation of the abscess. The syphilitic glandular enlargement requires the ordinary treatment of the syphilitic infection. In the case of the nondescript affection of the glands, which may with justice be called anemic, local treatment seems of no avail; although pain may be palliated with opiate applica- tions, while digitalis, iron, and henbane, or belladonna, sometimes seem to afford relief when administered internally; but the disease usually remains stationary and unyielding. When an acute abscess has formed at all deeply in the neck, whether connected or not with affections of the lymphatics, evacuation by incision cannot be too soon had recourse to, otherwise serious mischief can scarcely fail to ensue. Dyspnoea may be produced, either by direct pressure on the trachea, or by implication of the recurrent nerve on either side. Fascia is made to slough; areolar tissue is broken down; the trachea and oesophagus are each liable to be opened into by ulceration; the mediastinum, or pleural cavity, may be involved; the jugular vein may communicate with the abscess; or, still more disastrously, by com- munication with the carotid artery, the cyst of the abscess may be con- verted into the sac of a false aneurism. And then, when the wound for evacuation—too long delayed—is at length made, the most serious con- sequences are inevitable.* When the abscess points towards the middle line, an opening directly into its sac should unhesitatingly be made. In the case of matter forming acutely in the anterior triangle, close to the larynx, hyoid bone, and distribution of the external carotid artery, or about the angle of the jaw, or in connection with the upper part of the pharynx, or in the subclavian triangle, the opening of the purulent collection requires more careful consideration of the relation of the abscess-sac to the vessels and nerves of the region. This condition is made still more embarrassing by the inflammatory swelling and thickening both around and superficially, producing a communicated and diffused pulsation, and giving a false idea of depth. Where the difficulty becomes such as to render a simple puncture of the supposed abscess, and extension of the opening, a foolhardy procedure, a careful dissection should bo made; cutting down upon the important parts in relation with the sac, and avoiding them in laying it open. It shouhl * Montlily Journal, June 1856, p. 552.