882 BRONCIIOTOMY. the rules of practice are the same ; an early evacuating incision, if pos- sible ; otherwise, tracheotomy. The passing of tubes into the windpipe, by the nose or moutli, has heen proposed as a means of superseding hronchotomy. But modem experience limits their use to cases of suspended animation, unconnected with laryngeal or tracheal disease; and even then, their superiority may come to be a matter of question and doubt. Broncliotomy. Broncliotomy, including, as that term is intended to do, both laryn- gotomy and tracJieoiomy, is required— \st^ For the removal of foreign bodies from the larynx, trachea, or bronclii. 2d, To permit free ingress of air to the lungs in cases of laryngeal obstruction, where death by asphyxia is threatened. The causes wliich produce such obstruction are, as we have seen, very various ; the most common are due to inflammatory or ulcerative! change in the larynx itself; but spasm of the larynx, direct or reflex, and! mechanical causes—such as exist in wounds or injuries of the larynx orj trachea, or when pressure on the larpix or upper part of the trachea isj produced by inflammatory or other swelHngs—also occasionally requirel us to have recourse to this operation. ] In the great majority of cases, tracheotomy is preferable to laryn- gotomy, for obvious reasons. Laryngotomy, in fact, should never be an operation of choice, except where the urgency of the case, or the absence of suitable instruments and assistance, preclude us from performing trache-i otomy. The reason is threefold—\st, In all cases of an inflammatory! kind, tracheotomy enables us better to get beyond the range of the ob-l structing cause. 2d, In cases of foreign bodies lodged in the larynx, thej high operation of tracheotomy gives equal facility for reaching the foreign: body, and eff"ecting its dislodgment. While ?>d, by dividing the laryn- geal cartilages, or even the crico-thyroid membrane, we risk the infliction of more or less permanent injury to the laryngeal apparatus, and thust increase the probability of determining persistent aphonia. . Laryngotomy. The performance of this operation having been determined on, the patient is seated on a chair, with the head thrown back and steadied. A longitudinal incision is made over the box of the larynx, in the luesia) space ; by dissection, the crico-thyroid membrane is exposed; and througl: this an opening is then made by the knife—as free as the cartilagmmi.- boundaries of the space will allow—or more so if required, by dividuu the cricoid cartilage. A penknife plunged into the crico-tliyroid mem- brane, the wound being extended downwards through the cricoid cartilage will enable us in an emergency to effect this operation quite satisfactorily and, as we have said, it is only in such circumstances that it can ever b( required. A large ascites-trocar and canula, if at hand, may be cmployei' for the same purpose; and the canula, being retained, will act as a tube