617 ABSCESS OF THE DUKA MATEE, indicate the propriety of resorting to the use of the trephine. By this insti'ument—chosen of a largo size, to make the probability all the gi-eater of disclosing the siippiu-ated part—the dead portion of bone is perforated; \vith the hope that the abscess may be discharged externally, with relief 10 the symptoms of compression. Be it remembered, however, that, even ill the most satisfactory cases, the symptoms of inflammatory change still remain, affecting in all probability the visceral layers of the membranes of the brain. Antiphlogistics must still be continued, therefore ; and much cai-efid management is required, even in the most favoiu-able cases, ere the patient is conducted to safe completion of the cure. It may happen that the inflammatory progress is not checked; but, spreading both widely and in depth, proves ultimately fatal In short, while it is obvious that the only chance of the patient's safety is by artificial evacuation of the matter, it is equally plain that the operation alone will not suffice, but must be followed up by the most careful general treat- ment. For the experience of most practical surgeons of the present day tliffers very materially from the recorded successes of Pott; in whose 1 lands a satisfactory result appears to have been the rule, failure quite the exception. Nay, even when all the symptoms mentioned have been jji-esent, perforation of the cranium at the injured part has failed to dis- close any depot of pus; and even where success has so far crowned our efforts to relieve these urgent symptoms, the evacuation of the pus has failed to save the patient—the diffuse suppuration of the arachnoid having apparently progressed commensurably with the formation of pus external to the dura mater. On the other hand, it sometimes happens, in fractures of the base of i the skull, that an abscess, burrowing between the dura mater and bone, i has eventually reached the middle ear, and discharged itself externally I by the meatus ; the patient recovering. But, obviously, such an occur- I rence is a rare exception to the general rule, and cannot be trusted to in practice. If, on removing a portion of skull by the trephine, matter is not found, or the symptoms continue unrelieved, a question arises whether cm- efforts at direct relief are to cease, or whether further exploration is to be attempted. Is the dura mater to be perforated, in the hope that the site of abscess may prove to be beneath 1 Not, if the membrane present its usual normal characters at the part exposed; level, moving synchronously with the cerebral mass, smooth, of a greyish hue, and shewing something of a silvery lustre. But if it be protruding thi^ough the cranial aperture, flocculent, non-pulsating, and either too dark or too pale in colour—and, more especially, if it afford anything of a feeling of fluctuation when touched—we need not, in the desperate condition of the patient, hesitate to puncture ; and may hope to find a circumscribed coUection of purulent matter in the cavity of the arachnoid, which our incision has sufficed to evacuate. If the dura matter appear sound, and m puncture consequently be unwarrantable, are we permitted to reapply ne trephme; either at the site of contrecou^j, or in the immediate vici- ^ty of the first application 1 Either of these procedures may be war- anTt^ ' symptoms of dura matral abscess are peculiarly marked, na the surgeon is thoroughly convinced of its existence. But, as can