1207 STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. the whole space. The mucous lining of the entire canal sympathizes more or less. From the strictured part, and also from the general sur- face of the memhrane, an abnormal discharge proceeds ; usually clear, sometimes puriform ; and liable to be increased by casual excitement— this inducing aggravation of the congestion. Ulceration of the canal at and behind the seat of constriction sometimes occurs ; the destructive pro- cess extending either from the superficial mucous surface, or from sup- puration occurring in some of the dilated mucous crypts situated in the dilated part of tlie canal This constitutes in some cases the early stage and cause of urinary extravasation and fistula ; the urine gradually making its Avay thi'ough the tissues which are breaking down under the ulcera- tive change. In most cases, however, the urinary extravasation, pro- ceeding from stricture, is preceded by the formation of an abscess— external to the canal at its constricted part—which, making its way towards the urethra more readily than towards the surface, may open into the passage and thus admit the escape of urine into the abscess- sac. Should this, however, have been incised, before spontaneous eva- cuation into the uiethra has taken place, the canal may afterwards open by ulceration and m'ine escape through the wound. Chronic prostatitis is apt to be induced ; increasing the discharge. The lining membrane of the bladder becomes affected ; the muscular coat too is changed, becoming hypertrophied ; and, in consequence, both fasciculation and sacculation of the viscus may take place. The enlarged muscular fibres, arranged in bundles, act strongly on the urine ; and the urine, not getting freely away through the strictured urethra, reacts on the mucous membrane, causing protrusion of this through the interspaces of the fasciculi. Cysts, thus formed, receive gradual additions to their parietes, and may attain to a large size—rivalling the bladder itself in magni- tude j but this condition is not so common as in cases of diseased pros- tate. Chronic cystitis may follow. And morbid sympathy does not end with the bladder ; the kidneys are in many cases involved; first in irri- tation, causing functional derangement only; afterwards in organic disease. The pelvis of the kidney and the ureters are often enormously dilated, their lining membrane furnishing much puriform discharge. The for- mation of stone, too, is favoured, as was formerly remarked ; derange- ment of the kidney's secretion leads to calculous deposit, and this is obstructed in its outward passage by the urethral change. The symptoms of stricture are of gradual invasion, and may for some time escape the patient's notice. The urine is passed in an attenuated stream, sometimes twisted, sometimes scattered, sometimes partially drib- bling ; the act is both frequent and tedious ; and sometimes it is accompanied by pain and uneasiness in the bladder, perineum, and penis, which abate on the bladder being emptied. After the patient supposes evacuation complete, a few drops—in some cases a considerable quantity—pass away involuntarily ; coming from the dilatation behind the stricture, through the indurated and constricted part which, tempor- arily dilated by the stream of water, slowly closes under the influence of the muscular textures of the urethral walls. In consequence, the clothes are usually soiled and stained. Tlio increased frequency of mictiirition is most observed at night. A gleety discharge comes from the urethra.