497 GLANDERS. Inoculation of Virus from an Animal not Rabid. Equinia or Glanders.—The horse, ass, and mule, are liable to a dis- ease, which, according as it manifests itself chiefly in the lymphatic system, is termed Farcy—or in the nasal passages and skin, is termed Glanders. The virus of this disetvse, received into the human system, deranges the whole blood, as poisons usually do ; and is capable of pro- ducing a series of symptoms closely analogous to those which occur in the lower animal. It is communicable both by contagion and by infec- tion ; but chiefly by the former mode. When inoculation by wound takes place, the local symptoms precede the constitutional, and are such as follow poisoned wounds in general. There is at first fever, of variable character; sometimes sthenic, more frequently asthenic in type ; and soon followed by pains in the limbs and joints. " Hard, circumscribed, subcutaneous tumours form on the parts that are the seat of pain, in the vicinity of the joints or elsewhere on the extremities, or on the trunk. The skin covering the tumours may fall into gangrene, but they usually suppurate, and when opened gene- rally yield a sanious or bloody discharge. Between the fourth and the sixteenth days, a nasal discharge appears ; not, however, uniformly. In some cases, this symptom is only apparently absent; pressure causing a discharge from the nose, or decubitus causing it to run into the mouth. The discharge is usually from both nostrils, is rarely abundant, is yellow- ish, viscid, and sometimes purulent and streaked with blood. The nose and adjacent parts are occasionally SAvoln ; and in two cases gangrene of the nose occurred. At an uncertain period of the malady—at a mean iterm, perhaps on the twelfth day—a principal and remarkable symptom pccurs, which consists in the appearance of a pustular eruption, or gan- ^enous bullae, on the face, trunk, extremities, or genital organs.- The Dustules appear in succession, and usually occupy the face, arms, thighs, md anterior surface of the trunk; they have been compared to the pus- ules of small-pox, but their appearance is peculiar and specific. The )ull8e may be followed by gangrene, varj^ing in extent and depth. What- ver the original type of the fever may have been, it now becomes of a yphoid or adynamic character. The duration of the disease is short. In wo-thirds of the cases, death occurred before the seventeenth day ; one nly survived on the fifty-ninth day."* As yet, the fatality has been dmost without exception. The disease may be either acute or chronic, in its general character; ihe symptoms and appearances varying accordingly. The chronic form an scarcely be said to invite higher hopes of recovery. When there is an abscence of nasal discharge, and of pustules or dcers in the schneiderian membrane ; when the characteristic eruption 8 present; when also numerous soft doughy tumours form in various ?arts of the surface, remote from the point of inoculation—usually on the sxtremities; and when these tumours are seldom resolved, but almost instantly suppurate, and sometimes pass into gangrene—large subcuta- neous abscesses, also, sometimes forming in the Hmbs—the disease may >e temed. Farcy ; chronic or acute, * British and Foreign Review, No. xxv. p. 33. 2 K