UMBILICAL HEllNIA. 1038 important advantage of not dilating the aperture as a conical pad would nor of acting as an excitant of protrusion elsewhere. In the course of a yeai- or two—it may be of months only—the parts are found consoU- dated, and further use of the compress is unnecessary. Mr. Wood employs in these cases a circular ring of india-rubber or gutta-percha, with the aperture occupied by a thin layer of india-rubber, or by a piece of adliesive plaster; the whole bemg retained by means of an elastic strap attached to the pad and carried round the abdomen. In the adult, the case is not so easily managed. The tumour is larger and less repressible. A corresponding compress is necessary, secured either by a belt or by the spring of a truss. Its use is merely palliative. Radical Cure of Umhilical Hernia.—Two methods have been had recoiu'se to for this piu-pose. That recommended by Mr. Wood, and prac- tised by him in three cases of obstinate umbilical rupture in children; the other employed in the case of an adult patient by Dr. P. H. Watson. Mr. Wood employs a spoon-shaped spatula, by means of which he inva- ginates the skin and sac through the aperture in the tendinous texture beneath. He then carries its extremity upwards and outwards, so as to bear it firmly against the under surface of the tendon. In the hollow of the spoon the needle is now passed through the skin, sac, and tendinous marghi, till it appears beneath the cutaneous surface, which is draAvn up- wards by an assistant, so that the skin may be pulled as far as possible from a point below the aperture in the tendon. This is repeated on the same side at the lower end of the opening, taking care that the wires emerge through the same lateral aperture. A needle is again introduced through the cutaneous tissues and sac towards the opposite side of the hernial ring; entering the needles at the two original punctures, and carrying them outwards towards the other side. In this way two wires, entering by the same aperture on the one side, and emerging by the same aperture on the opposite side, include the tendinous margins of the opening. By twist- ing each pair of wires into the punctures, the hernial aperture is felt to be completely closed, Dr, Watson carries a needle in a fixed handle circumferentially backwards and forwards through the tendinous margin of the imibiUcal opening, first upon the one side and then upon the other; and, in withdrawing the needle, carries back, along with it, the extremities of a piece of stout silver wire. The ends of the wire, at one point of emergence, are tightened up by being twisted together; and the loop at the other extremity is then drawn upon and twisted into the aperture of emergence of the needle-point. In passing the needle, the finger invaginating the sac and its coverings enables the operator to guide the point with accuracy and safety, A pad and bandage should be applied and retained till consolidation is effected, or till effusion into the sac, which sometimes ensues, renders its presence irksome. When strangulation occurs in umbilical hernia, rehef is obtained m the ordinary way ; by taxis, or by operation. The external wound need not be of large dimensions; most frequently, the hernial contents are found to have no coverings but the integument and the sac. The deep incision for relief of constriction, made by a probe-pointed bistoury on the fore-finger, is placed on the mesial line, usually on the lower aspect of the swelling. The taxis is made directly backwards.