THE HEALTHY HEALING SOEE. 107 reason to believe, that such careless generalization in practice is found to affect the treatment of no disease more frequently than that of ulcers. One lotion, one ointment, or one j)laster or poultice, comes to be regarded as quite a panacea; and is used in all cases indiscriminately—whether for benefit or hurt being a mere matter of chance, with the average of pro- bability leaning towards the latter. To avoid such injurious haphazard in treatment, it is essential that we understand, thoroughly, the nature of all the varieties of sore. And, towards this end, there is nothing so useful as a right classification; each variety shewing its distinguishing characters, and bearing at the same time its appropriate treatment. Not that we mean to designate each as a separate disease, but only as a separate variety of the same disease—ulcer j entreating the student to remember, that in the treatment of such affections much care and watch- fulness are required; inasmuch as they have a great tendency to pass from one form into another, often by no very gradual and protracted transition; and tLat, consequently, an application which is altogether suitable one day, may on the next become very inappropriate. Classification.—The following will be found to include the great majority of ulcers. Under one or other of the varieties every example may be arranged. 1. The simple Purulent, or Healthy healing sore. 2. The Weak. 3. The Scrofulous. 4. The Cachectic. 5. The Indolent, 6. The Irritable. 7. The Inflamed. 8. The Sloughing. 9. The Phage- dsenic. 10. The Sloughing-Phagedsena. 1. The Simple Purulent, or Healthy Sore. This is in truth an example of healthy granulation j supervening on wound or abscess, or on inflammatory disintegration of a part previously unbroken in its surface. The discharge is thick, creamy, easily detached from the granulations, almost inodorous, not too pro- fuse ; in fact it is laudable pus. The granulations are numerous, small, acuminated, florid, sensitive, vascular; if touched at all rudely, they bleed and are pained; the blood is arterial, neither profuse nor abnormal in quality; and the pain is but the just appreciation of injury done to a healthy part, not the extreme and persistent nervous im- pression of morbid initation. The general sensa- tion in the part, when not injured, is slight tender- ness, or a feeling of rawness, rather than actual pain; not unfrequently, a sensation of itching is present, to an extent even troublesome. The granulations, when brought to a level with the surrounding skin—partly by subsidence of this from the state ot inflammatory engorgement, partly by their own elevation—remain at that level; and the process of cicatrization is forthwith begun. At this stage, the integument surrounding the granulating surface has a slight tumescence; and is a little more red than in ordinary health, being more vascular. Its free margin is fringed by the grow- flPnS' '"^''^^'^' cicatrization. Pellicle of new skin repre- sented round the margin. Fig. 24.