DISLOCATION OF THE ELBOW. 941 Fig. 808. Di.slocation of the radius forwards. Lore ordinary dislocation of both bones backwards, coaptation being iisually foimd more serviceable than any great or forcible efforts at extension. 3. Fanoards.—Some writers speak of dislocation of both bones for- wartls without the occurrence of any fracture. But it is difficult to conceive how such an accident could possibly occur without fracture of the olecranon, and great injury to the soft parts co-existing. Dislocation of the Ulna at the Elbow. Dislocation of the ulna bacJcioards, and lacJcivards and inwards, has I been described by different authors. The former, or a dislocation back- hoards and outwards by rotation of the forearm inwards, when flexed lat right angles upon the arm, is a conceivable accident, the external {lateral and annular ligaments remaining entire; but a dislocation back- Iwards and inwards, without any commensurate displacement or fracture lof the radius, is a thing impossible. We have never seen a dislocation of Ithe ulna backwards where there was not a fracture through the inner Icondyle of the humerus, and are inclined to doubt the existence of simple Idislocations of the ulna altogether. Dislocation of the Radiics at the Elboio. The radius may be displaced, singly, in two directions — fon^'ards lor backwards. The former accident occurs more frequently than the latter. There seems good reason to doubt, however, if these dislocations |ate ever uncomplicated; fracture of the upper part of the shaft of the ulna the one case, and fracture of the inner condyle of the humerus in the other, being the usual complication. They are always the result |of direct violence sustained on the elbow, or of falls on the hand, or af twisting of the forearm. 1. Forwards.—The head of the bone rests the hollow above the external condyle, and may be felt there. The forearm is slightly bent, and usually can be neither flexed nor extended |completely. On attempting flexion, the head of the radius, which lies 9ver the coronoid process, is felt to strike against the humerus, abruptly arresting the movement. When flexion .(j jontinues free, the head of the radius will |be found to glide outwards and upwards rer the outer condyle. The hand is com- pletely pronated, and the upper part of |bhe forearm, instead of being flattened from ide to side, is rounded. Reduction is affected by making direct pressure over (the head of the bone, extending at the same time from the hand so as to act on |fche radius alone, and then flexing the ^'ig- 308. forearm upon the arm in a direction as far outwards as possible. 2. Backwards.—The head of the radius is displaced either behind the external condyle, or, at the same time, to its outer side ; and in this