TllEATMENT OF FRACTURE. 540 only, has been Avell cliaractevized by Mr. Pott, as "not only an absurdity, I but a mischievous absurdity." In order to protect the integument froia being chafed by the splints, they are lined suitably ; with fine tow, or ;i cotton wadding, or soft llanuel, or linen; or—especially in hospital practice—the larger splints may be furnished with small mattresses ■ stuffed with chaff, bran, or hair; the protecting cushion being hollowed out where pressure is likely to be greatest, and where chafing conse- quently is probable. Splints and bandaging having been duly applied, the limb is placed in j a comfortable and suitable posture, and so retained ; relaxation of the dis- placing muscles, if practicable, never being forgotten. A pillow, if need be, may be adjusted beneath the part. But the general mattress or couch, on which the patient is laid, should be rather firm than otherwise—mo) especially in fractures of the spine and lower extremities—in order that tolerably uniform level may be maintained, "\^Tien the double-inclinc' l plane is used for the lower limb, this indication may be further fulfilled 1 placing a flat board below the lower part of the splint. After due adju.^ ment, the parts cannot be too little disturbed. Should the bandage becoii tight, from inordinate swelling of the limb, or should pain be complain' of; should an involuntary movement have obviously caused redisplat ment; or should subsidence of swelling, or restlessness of the patient, oi both, have slackened the bandage—permitting too great a latitude < motion between the fractured ends—the retentive apparatus undoubtedi; ought to be reapplied. But not unless. The " nimia diligentia" of s\ir gery is bad in wounds ; it is worse in fractures. Daily dressing, movi ment, and manipulation, may, in the eyes of the ignorant, express grc; care and anxiety, and even skill, on the part of the practitioner ; but, ij the mind of the well-informed, the same evidence convicts him of glarin< ignorance of the first principles of treatment. It is most essential fofj due advancement of the process of reparation, that the uniting pa should be placed and retained in a state of absolute repose. Watcl ness and meddling are widely distinct. We cannot satisfy om-selves totj often—from examination both by sight and touch, and also by regard t j the general state of the system—that all is advancing favourably at site of fracture ; but, at the same time, we cannot too seldom interfei with the position of the limb—when this continues accurate and easy. Sometimes it is advisable to supersede the common splints by the of gum or starch. Pledgets, and even narrow lateral splints of softelie pasteboard or thin wood, with several layers of bandaging soaked i| starch, gum, or glue, are applied so as to envelope the whole hmb accB rately; in the same way, and to the same extent, as ordinary retentil apparatus. But it is necessary to continue extension, and (if not appli^ internally) temporarily to put on a wooden splint outside, until the appf ratus has become dry and hard—when it forms a tight, accurately fittinj unyielding case, in which the broken Kmb lies securely imbedded. Durii the first period of the treatment of severe fractures, the application of thi in mass is unsuitable ; for considerable swelling must occur, requiring pr portionate slackening of the retentive apparatus, which ought consequent to be light and easily changed. Further on in the case, Avhen swelhnj has reached its acm^, and has begun to subside, it is still inajijn-opriate J