CHAPTER XLL AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE. Glossitis. The inflammatory process in the tongue may be variously induced ] by wounds, stings, or other injuries ] or by acrid applications. Or it may occur spontaneously. The symptoms in the acute form are—pain, rapid swelling, with more or less protrusion, intense thirst, with, of course, impairment of the ordinary functions of the organ. In extreme cases, the swelling may occlude the fauces, and has even proved fatal by causiug suffocation. The treatment, when there is no great urgency in the symptoms, should consist in applying leeches and fomentations to the submaxillary region, with the use of such antiphlogistics internally as may seem neces- sary—purgatives being specially indicated. In cases where the symp- toms are rapidly induced, threatening to produce suffocation, two or three free longitudinal incisions, as if for phlegmonous erysipelas, should be made into the dorsal surface of the tumid organ. This affords speedy rehef, by the escape of blood and serous fluid; the swelling rapidly abates, the wounds, which at first were gaping and deep, dwindle down to mere scarifications, and no important lesion of structure is inflicted on the part. Should a case present itseK too urgent to admit of waiting for the effects of incision, or should the incisions not afford sufficiently speedy relief, tracheotomy should at once be performed, so as to protect the patient from the risk of suffocation. "Where glossitis is due to the excessive administration of mercurials, the sweUing is gradually induced, and is by no means so extreme as in the acute form just described. The organ sometimes protrudes consider- ably from the mouth, and may become very extensively ulcerated on its under surface from the constant pressure of the inferior incisors. Purgatives, support of the organ by means of a bandage, the use of astringent lotions, and the internal administration of chlorate of potash, should constitute the principal part of our treatment. Wounds of the Tongue. Wounds of the tongue bleed copiously. Hemorrhage is to bo com- manded by iced water, by Hgature, by a harelip needle and thread twisted round it, or by the use of styptics—sometimes advantageously combined with pressure effected by means of common dissecting forceps, the blades bemg compressed together by an elastic caoutchouc ring, or by means of Desmarres' ring forceps for operations on the eyelids; if need be, the