283 ABSCESS OF BONE. m- head of tlie tibia, and evacuation of a small abscess there, would have sufficed to resolve all the urgency. Sometimes remarkable intermission of the symptoms occurs j pro- bably in consequence of the matter having found either a partial or com- plete vent from its original site. When such intermission does take place, the case may closely simulate neuralgia. It has been already observed, that usually, unless efficient relief be afforded, aggravation and extension of the original affection occur volving the whole bone at that part in suppuration, ulceration, and death. Then the constitutional symptoms undergo proportional aggravation. Sometimes, however, the progress is more gradual. Absorption and ulceration occur in the parts surrounding the abscess ; this slowly enlarges, and, obeying the general law, enlarges chiefly towards the surface ; the surface is ultimately reached, the matter discharged, and the bone relieved. Not unfre- quently, one or two small sequestra are extruded along with the matter. But this is both a painful and a pro- tracted process ; occupying not days, but weeks—perhaps many; and ever Hable to be merged in general acute ostitis and death of the bone. Even supposing that such acces- sion do not occur, constitutional disorder will be inevi- tably great, and, in consequence, life may be endangered, or saved only at the cost of the Hmb. Treatment is simple. Instead of the amputating Imife and saw, at an advanced period of the case, we employ the scalpel and trepliine at the beginning. Ordinary means having failed to arrest the inflammatory process, and the symptoms being sufficiently plain to convince us that a limited internal abscess has formed, we make a free incision over the marked spot; and there apply the crown of a trephine ; perforating towards the interior. On reaching the cancellous texture, pus will probably begin to ooze by the side of the instrument. In withdrawing the trephine, along with the laminated portion of bone which it has detached, ■ a tea-spoonful or two of tolerably laudable pus may escape ; and then, evacuation having been fully accomplished, the patient passes almost at once from most cruel torment into placid repose. The flaps are replaced, and the wound treated on ordinary principles. The part soon quiets down, and ultimately cicatrizes firmly and permanently. Should the first trephining fail to detect pus, and the symptoms yet be most convincing of its presence, the instrument may be reapplied ; with hopes of a better success—as is well exemphfied in a case detailed in Liston's "Elements," p. 116. But to obviate the necessity for this, it is well to use a specially large trephine in the first instance. In some cases it has happened that although no pus or suppurated cavity has been detected, relief and cure have still followed the operation ; probably by the relief of tension. Fig. 109. .Section of femur, shewing great condensation. Near the middle, an abscess has discharged itself, at some remote period—not, however, before having proved the cause of extensive structural change. Fig. 109.