STRANGULATED HERNIA. 1011 tory process is begun; also when incarceration exists, with interruption to the vascular flow, with an inflammatory process in the protruded parts certainly following, sometimes, however, preceding constriction. This distinction must be made; because we may have all the symptoms of strangulation present, constipation among the rest, while the protrusion consists of omentum alone; as also when the bowel is implicated, with only a small portion of its circumference included in the protrusion. The symptoms of strangulation, in the protruded viscera, may either occur immediately after their escape, or be developed, either acutely or gradually, at a more or less distant date. The constriction may sometimes depend on spasm, or on some structural alteration in the abdominal out- let ; but is usually due to change in the hernial contents caused by sudden, or at least rapid and unusual, enlargement of the protruded parts —in consequence of which, the neck of the tumour becomes diminished in proportion to the bulk of contained viscera. This increase in the size of the protruded parts may be caused by the occurrence of a fresh protrusion ; or by the accumulation of fasculent or gaseous contents within the bowel; or may be due to the inflammatory process set up in the protruded parts, causing both vascular engorgement and serous accu- mulation. The inflammatory accession is much more frequently, however, in a strangulated hernia, consequent upon constriction, and caused by it. The symptoms of strangulation are very marked. The patient is annoyed by flatulence, general uneasiness, and restlessness. The bowels are obstinately constipated; complaint is made of a twisting burning pain referred to the umbilical region ; sickness and retching occur, with upward evacuation of the contents of the stomach, mixed with bile; then the contents of the small intestines are ejected; and latterly, both in appearance and smell, the vomited matter becomes fasculent, or stercoraceous. The tumour, although resisting efforts at reduction, is not necessarily at first either tense or tender, but soon becomes so ; and the pain, which increases rapidly, usually extends to the neighbour- ing parts of the abdomen. The contents of the sac are in fact becoming implicated in the inflammatory process, which may either afiect them alone, or extend to the peritoneum and contents of the abdominal cavity. At first the pulse may be hard and increased in rapidity; more com- monly, however, from the very commencement it is small and feeble, while the face is pale, the expression sunk and anxious, and the features shnmken. The tumour now becomes more and more tense and painful —perhaps intolerant of even the gentlest pressure. Great pain affects the whole abdomen, with aggravation and twisting at the umbilicus. Nausea and vomiting continue; the countenance is bedewed with clammy perspiration; there is great restlessness, and distress is constant; the pulse grows more rapid and indistinct; hiccough sets in; the tumour becomes less intolerant of manipulation, less tense and painful, and feels doughy and crepitant on being handled. These latter symptoms denote that gangrene haa taken place. Then vomiting may cease, and sudden cessation of pain and discomfort may be experienced ; perhaps the bowels act imperfectly; and the patient may express himself not only relieved tut confident of recovery. Sinking, however, continues ; and the fatal issue is not long deferred.