PASSINCt THE CATHETER. 1270 Tlie 'passing of the Female Catheter. In this operation, great delicacy is required. Wlien, from prolapsus uteri, or other causes, there is much relaxation or change of relative position, ocular inspection may l3e necessary. But, in ordinary cases, all is done by touch alone, under the dress or Ijed clothes. The patient should bo in the recumbent position, with the nearer thigh Jlexcd. If the surgeon is at the left side of his patient, the fore- iinger of the left hand, if on the right side the fore-finger of tlie right hand, is passed under the flexed thigh, to the upper part of the orifice of the vagina, which is distinguished from the vestibulum by its rugo- aity j the catheter is so held in the other hand, passed over the thigh, that its length is directed towards the vulva; its point is made to touch a little above the forefinger placed as directed—and, by moving the point downwards, in the mesial line, it slips into the orifice of tlie urethra. Or, the finger is moved in search of the urethral orifice ; which is recognized by feeling just above the vaginal orifice a depres- sion, sometimes with a slight surrounding elevation ; and, along the finger, the catheter is then directly introduced. When there is dis- placement of the parts, a common elastic catheter may be found more suitable than the silver instrument; as then there may be both twisting and elongation of the canal. The ordinary silver catheter should be flat, very slightly curved, about six inches in length, and having some projection or knob near its outer orifice, to prevent its slipping into the canal altogether. Plugging of the Vagina Is a most useful and important operation, as a hemostatic, when flood- ing [uoi post xoartum) has to be arrested. In every form of hemorrhage from the vagma, it may be of the greatest service; and often is in fact the means of saving life. The simplest and most convenient method of plugging is to use pieces of sponge, or lint, or linen; placing them in the vagina one after the other, every piece being lodged as high as possible. When the bleeding is passive, not many pieces may be required; but if vessels have been opened by operation, the plugguig must be done very efficiently; the vagina being well crammed, and a T bandage applied to support the pledgets, which may be previously saturated with vinegar, solution of matico, perchloride of iron, or other astringent and styptic lotion. Great care must be paid to watch against return or persistence of the discharge ; and the plug should be carefully removed at the end of about twelve hours; to be replaced, if necessary, with new materials. Another plan, not so easy of execution, is to pass the centre of a napkin into the vagina ; thus making a blind pouch open from with- out, into which the necessary amount of stuffing may be passed. Or, a bladder may be passed and inflated with au-, or filled with refrige- rant solutions. Or the same may be done with bags of vulcanized caout- chouc ; and some ingenious instruments have been constructed expressly for the purpose.