1000 OVARIOTOMY, ascites-trocar, should be employed, a strong aqueous solution of iodine being introduced through this in a quantity proportioned to the size of the sac—from two to six ounces usually sufficing, "When so large a quantity is required, if the tincture were used, the rapid absorption of the spirit would produce intoxication; even with the aqueous solution, symptoms of rapidly-induced iodism frequently ensue, and may for a time create anxiety unless the cause is understood. In those cases where this plan by injection has apparently failed, the disappointment has probably been due not to the same sac refilling, but to a smaller cyst developing itself and occupying the site of the former one. These tumom-s may be dealt with summarily by extirpation. The operation is in some cases very simple. The patient having been suitably arranged and placed binder the influence of chloroform, a wound is made through the parietes of such an extent as may be necessary—first for exploration, and then for removal of the mass. There is no good reason for incising the whole abdomen in all cases, from the ensiform cartilage to the symphysis pubis. The external incision should be proportioned to the bulk of the tumour. The dissection is to be conducted carefully till the tumour is brought into view ; attention being directed to arrest as far as possible all bleeding from the wound before opening the peritoneal sac. The tumour having been fairly exposed, its state as to adhesions and its pedicle, is now to be examined; and, if deemed advisable, the operation is continued. Unless the adliesions are very strong and extensive, they should form no insuperable obstacle. In fact, where the adhesions are merely super- ficial, and the intestines and tumour are not pressed together into an inextricably confused mass, the prognosis is by many at the present day considered more favourable than in a simple non-adherent tumour. The mass is next to'be turned out of the abdominal cavity ; and to effect this through the small opening, the larger cysts should be successively punctured by the trocar with the caoutchouc tube attached, so as to remove the fluid without disturbing the patient or allowing any of it to flow into the peritoneal cavity. As the tumour is di-awn out of the opening, any attachments which exist are broken down by means of the finger-nails, or by the use of a director, or by the blunt points of a pair of probe-pointed scissors. When the pedicle is at length exposed, it should be included in the grasp of the clamp, and then divided. If bleeding ensue from vessels of any size in the parietes, or in the mesentery when detached from the surface of the tumour, these must be tied either with fine wire or with linen thread. If the bleeding consist of copious general oozing which compression with a sponge does not serve to check, a strong solution of matico, or even the tincture, may be apphed to the surface, Tlie raw surface and the suri'ounding viscera are sponged clean, and the wound closed. If unfortunately the bowels cannot be kept within the abdomen during the operation, means must be taken to maintain in them their natural heat till they are replaced ; they may be immersed in water at blood heat, or wrapped in fine flannel moistened with tepid water. The pedicle, compressed by the clamp, is brought out at the lowest part of the incision ; last of all, the wound is united by the interrupted wire sutiire, in such a manner as to expose as little as possible of its surface