1311 FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. On discontinuing the splint, at the usual time—from four to six weeks—a considerahlc amount of ocdematous swelling generally pervades the whole limb ; removable by friction and bandaging. Weight should be placed very gradually on the foot, especially in the aged, and in those of infirm health ; for, in these, even slinging of the foot, in attempts to walk with crutches, has caused serious displacement of the fracture. III. Fracture through the Trochanters.—This, which is merely a form of the extra-capsular fractm-e of the thigh-bone, is also the result of direct and severe violence. There is usually much displacement; and, in consequence, crepitus may at first be obscure. On extension and rotation, the hand, jDlaced over the trochanter, ascertains that the upper fragment is fixed, while the lower alone moves with the thigh. Treat- ment is by the long splint. rV. Fracture of the Trochanter Major.—This process may be broken off from the shaft of the bone ; but such an accident, without solution of continuity of the neck of the femur, must be excessively rare. There may be no displacement, the fibrous tissues around the line of fracture remaining uninjured ; in other cases, the separation produced by the lesser glutei muscles may amount to an inch and tliree-quarters (Har- grave), or the trochanter may be broken into fragments (Clarke). The displacement has usually been observed in a direction upwards and back- wards ; sometimes, however, and exceptionally, the fragment has passed upwards and forwards. This fracture occurs usually in young persons ; seldom, if ever, in the aged. The symptoms are obscure ; displacement in some cases, and the absence of laceration of the periosteal fibrous tissues in others, preventing the recognition of crepitus. Pain on pressure over the trochanter, and on forced adduction or abduction, with the fragment felt detached from the upper part of the shaft of the bone, without the existence of any loss of continuity in the neck or shaft, are the only constant signs of the injury. Accurate approximation and retention are effected with difficulty where there is separation ; and, in conse- quence, union in such cases can only be by ligament. Splints or band- ages are unnecessary; it is sufficient to maintain recumbency, with the thigh abducted and rotated outwards. V. Fracture helow the T^'ochanter Minor.—The indications of this accident are sufficiently plain. The end of the upper fragment projects outwards by the action of the psoas and iliacus, and of the muscles inserted into the trochanter and trochanteric fossa, and also in no small degree by the pelvis settling down into a hollow in the bed. By the muscles of the thigh, the condyles of the femur are drawn inwards ; and as the whole limb lies upon its outer side the upper end of the lower fragment forms an angle with the upper. The consequent deformity and shortening are great. Extension and rotation cause distinct cre- pitus ; and the preternatural mobility of the part, with loss of continuity in the shaft, are very apparent. Adjustment having been made, by extension and coaptation, the limb may be secured to the long splint; and sometimes it is expedient, in addition, to place pasteboard splints directly on the fractured part—one on the inside, extending from near the perineum, one on the outside extending from the trochanter major, and both reaching to the knee. They are secured by loop bandages,