THE WEAK SORE. Ill or constitutional, cicatrization has been delayed, and debility has usurped the place of sufficient repair. The granulations are cedematous, larger, and less numerous than in the healthy sore ; much paler, of a faint pink, or yellowish hue ; taller, not of a decidedly conical form, and bulbous rather than pointed at the apex ; less firm, as if dimly translucent; little sensi- tive, bearing to be rubbed almost with impunity ; less vascular, emitting blood but sparingly unless rudely handled; and the blood which does flow has often more of the venous than of the arterial character. The dis- chai-ge is pale and thin, serum greatly predomi- nating over the solid particles ; there is but little fibrinous product, whether going to waste as pus, or going to repair as granulations. The general character of the surface is pale, flabby, and elevated above the surrounding integument. This latter is often the seat of passive congestion ; and, some- times, of a serous eff'usion following thereon. Consequently, it is of a blue or livid tint, soft, and somewhat swoln, though stiU below the level of the granulations. Often its free margin is overlaid by a bending over of the tall granu- lating mass ; and the surface of the latter not unfrequently parts with the granulated character ; becoming smooth and villous in its appearance. When the sore has been the seat of frequent change ; ulcerating one day, granulating well the second, and weakly on the third—the granula- tions coming and going, as it were—it is not uncommon for these varia- tions to be succeeded by a permanently weak character of the ulcerated surface ; and its integumental margins, having lost their support by the previous accessions of ulceration, are more or less inverted, as well as unusually dark from livid discoloration. This undermining, with conse- quent inversion of the margin, is rather to be regarded as an accidental than as one of the ordinary characteristics of the weak sore. Sometimes, the undermining is extensive at one or more points ; matter accumulates there, unless when removed by pressure ; and a probe passes readily into the cavity, which is marked externally by swelling and blueness of the integument. All, in short, evinces a want of sthenic function ; and this may either depend upon local circumstances, as already shewn, or be but one indi- cation among others of a feeble system. Ko ulcer of large extent can escape degeneration into this form; it is the inevitable result of pro- tracted cicatrization. A sore situated on the lower extremities—far from the centre of circulation, its venous return often if not habitually opposed, and all circumstances very favourable to passive congestion—is extremely prone to become weak. And, not unfrequently, such degeneration would seem to be connected" with atmospheric influence. One day, the majority of ulcers in an hospital, or ward, may shew a healthy character; on the next they may all be weak, or otherwise deteriorated, with no cause assignable, excepting perhaps the occurrence of a sudden, marked, and un- favourable change of weather. Eepeated ulceration of the same part is a Fig. 2.'). The weak sore, of elevated surface. High granulations overlapping.