375 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS AROUND JOINTS. joint: 2, the uncertainty of obtaining enough plastic change, to ensure jonsolidation at the transfixed part: 3, an equal uncertainty in avoiding ;n.flamniatory excess, whereby formidable synovitis may be induced. I lave abtmdoned the practice. Mr. Syme has recommended the fixing of the foreign body by means )f a simple subcutaneous incision of the capsule over it; retaining the ;artilage, by means of pads of lint and a bandage, till united, in the lips )f the incision ; and then within a few days applying a blister to the skin it that part, to excite further plastic change, followed by absorptive removal of the body. As already stated, no operation is expedient unless in troublesome jases, and with much precaution. For experience has shewn that even ;he modern operative procedure is not free from risk. Tlie Inflammatory Process in tlie Exterior of Joints. This may be of the simple and ordinary kind; and then prone to suppuration. Or it may be of an obviously rheumatic character; ;endiag rather to chronic change of structure. 1. SimiJle.—The inflammatory process, occurring in the parts im- mediately exterior to a joint, unconnected with any peculiar condition of system, is usually acute; and tends towards the suppurative crisis. It may be the conse- quence of external injury; or it may be but a part of some more extensive disorder—as ery- sipelas. Or the affection may be idiopathic and chronic in its nature; causing at first plastic formation with hard swelling and stiffness of the joint, dull and indolent; and, after months passed in this type, then advancing to suppura- tion. However occasioned, suppuration follows the usual course ; and the matter seeks the sur- face. If opposed in that direction^as it is certain to be, if originating among, and not exterior to the fibrous tissues—it cannot but extend also both laterally and in depth; so ob- viously and imminently endangering the articu- lation. If purulent irruption take place there, it will be hard to prevent immediate invasion of such inflammatory change as shall result in the destruction of all the component textures, as well as in the establishment of the most violent and alarming constitutional disturbance. Treatment, therefore, must be early, and actively antiphlogistic ; in order to arrest the inflammatory process, if possible, ere the suppurative crisis shall have been attained. When this has occurred, an incision can scarcely be made too early ; free and dependent. 2. Rheumatic.—When acute, this is usually merged in a deeper and Fig. 164. Clironic ostitis; serious structural change on the extei-ior of the affected The result of chronic rheumatism. Pig. 164. bones.