CHAPTER XLIIL AFFECTIONS OF THE PHAEYNX AND CESOPIIAGUS. Pharyngitis and CEsojjhagiiis. The inflammatory process, aflfecting the pharynx pre-eminently or solely, is of comparatively rare occurrence. As an accompanying part of the different forms of Cynanche, we have already had occasion to say all, as re- gards both symptoms and treatment, that seems requisite. As a separate malady, inflammatory affection of the pharynx or oesophagus most fre- quently is the result of a direct exciting cause ; as the lodgment of foreign bodies, or the contact of boiling fluids or of acrid substances, such as nitric or sulphuric acid, soap ley, or caustic alkalies, either in the solid or fluid form. The membrane, as far as can be seen through the mouth, becomes red and swoln, at first dry, afterwards affording an increased and perverted secretion ; deglutition is difficult and painful; when the upper part of the oesophagus and pharynx are the parts affected, as is usually the case, pain is felt on manipulating the parts from without, and by movement of the larynx and trachea; pain is also experienced in the nape of the neck, extendiug downwards towards the upper part of the thorax, and the ordinary constitutional symptoms attend. The ex- pression of the patient's face becomes anxious, and when an effort at swallowing is made, the suffering is sometimes so intense that the fea- tures become spasmodically convulsed, as the bolus passes the affected part. The affection may simply resolve; or ulceration may take place in the membrane, accompanied with purulent discharge ; or the sub- mucous tissue may become the seat of abscess (pharyngeal or oesophageal); or by submucous plastic formation, and change of structure in the mem- brane itself, contraction of the pharyngeal space (stricture) may result. Pharyngeal and (Esophageal Abscess. When matter has formed beneath the mucous membrane, if the upper and posterior part of the canal is affected, a fluctuating yet tense swelling may be perceived; and deglutition and respiration become more and more impeded, according to the increase of the tumour. In children the affection is even apt to simulate croup.* Treatment is by early and free evacuation by incision, which may be made with perfect safety. If the abscess be large, it has been recommended to use a trocar and canula; lest the pus, suddenly escaping in quantity, might endanger suffocation; • F'ide Monthly Journal of Medical Science, August 1846, p. HQ. Ibid., October 1847, p. 220. Also, Aborcrombie, Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, April 1819.