989 WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. In any case, however, Avhere the wounded bowel is distended with fluid foculence at the time of the injury, and especially if the wound extends in the length of the intestine, or divides tlio bowel throughoiit a consider- able extent of its circumference, a fatal result can scarcely be averted. Protrusion of the Boivel.—If through a penetrating parietal wound a portion of intestine, or other viscus, protrudes entire, it is to be simply replaced; with all gentleness, so as not to endanger an aggravation of uiilammatory accession; and yet with all acciu-acy—the finger following the retreating viscus closely, so as to ensure its being replaced wholly within the abdominal cavity—thus avoiding the serious risk of ob- scure strangulation, which is so prone to follow partial reduction. The woxuid is carefully approximated—by suture, if need be; and by mode- rate bandaging such pressure is made without, as is calculated to pre- vent reprotrusion. In subsequent treatment an anxious prophylaxis is maintained, with a preparation for suitable antiphlogistics on the shortest notice. If the protruded part be found to have sustained mere puncture, it may be simply replaced, as if intact; trusting to Nature's means of closure. If a larger wound exist—incised, of no great extent, and con- sequently deemed capable of adhesion—it is to be brought accurately to- gether by the glovers' suture. And, in applying this, it is well to turn in the edges of the wounded part gently, so that the approximated sur- faces shall be peritoneal; that structure being well known to be much more capable of the required plastic process, than are the mucous or middle coats of the boweL The punctures of the needle should not be more than a line apart; and the fingers of an assistant should accurately retain the inverted condition of the wound during the manipulation. It is well to take the first stitch from within outwards; and the placing of a large knot here is supposed to favour the inward escape of the thread; which in time ulcerates its way into the cavity of the bowel, and is thence discharged. The suture having been duly arranged, the part is gently replaced; in the hope that it may become safely covered up by plastic product. (Fig. 203, p. 476.) If the portion of bowel be bruised, or otherwise so extensively in- jured as to render the occurrence of adhesion obviously impossible, it were folly to effect mechanical union and replacement of the part; except, indeed, when the bruising or laceration is so limited, as to admit of its being easily removed by paring the edges of the wound before introduc- ing sutures. When the laceration and contusion are to such an extent that the wound must necessarily inflame and open, were the intestine re- turned into the cavity of the abdomen fasculent extravasation would be inevitable, and death would be almost certain. The wounded part should, therefore, be retained at the surface; and, with this view, the peritoneal coat is united with the integument, at the lip of the wound, at one or more points by suture; and then through the upper orifice of the wounded part the fseculent contents discharge themselves innocuously. ITie condition of Artificial Anus is established; a state of much dis- comfoit, and by no means devoid of danger ; but infinitely less fatal than faeculent escape into the cavity of the abdomen. Thus, the local treatment differs according to the nature of each case.