493 IIYDKOPHOBIA. iion, are very frequent and distressing. Tlie voice is changed, and ^loarse; but it requires fancy to assimilate it to the barking of a dog. Dccasionally, a croupy noise is made in respiration, during spasmodic con- traction of "the glottis. Sometimes there is an inclination to bite ; not, Usually, from savage inclination; but involuntarily and unwittingly— the patient often taldng care to forewarn his attendants. As the disease advances, cerebral excitement and disorder become more and more apparent. The eyes are staring, bloodshot, and never 5hut; hearing, sight, and touch, are wonderfully acute, but deceptive ; speech is abrupt and rapid, often incoherent; and at length dehrium is confirmed. The paroxysms of difficult breathing, with spasm of the muscles of the throat, become more and more marked; in one of these the patient dies asphyxiated; or he sinks, exhausted, during a period of remission. And such is the second stage ; usually of even shorter dura- tion than the first. Sometimes, death is immediately preceded by com- plete remission of all the symptoms. The morbid appearances, iisually observed after death, are congestion, with serous effusion, in the brain and spinal cord, and in their mem- branes. The mucous membrane of the stomach and fauces is increased in vascularity j that lining the air-passages is often in a similar state, and the limgs are much congested. The whole blood is dark and grumous, wanting in serum. Tetanus is the disease with which this is most apt to be confounded j yet the differences are sufficiently marked. The spasm of the muscles— Df the neck and jaw especially—is continuous in tetanus ; remitting, but hever intermitting. The jaw is usually much in motion in hydrophobia, in frequent attempts to clear the mouth and throat by hawking and spitting the peculiarly tenacious mucus; in tetanus it is rigidly fixed. Tetanus is rarely attended with aversion to liquids; on the contrary, the )ath is grateful; nor are the tetanic paroxysms increased by the sight, learing, or touch of fluids. Also, tetanus makes its accession usually it a much earlier period after infliction of the injury. Physiologically, svhile tetanus is a disease of the true spinal system, hydrophobia involves ihe brain also; as evinced by the disorder of intellectual function and special sense, even early in the disease. While, in tetanus, the stimulus svhich excites the paroxysms " operates through the true spinal cord; in hydrophobia it is often conducted from the ganglia of special sense, )r even from the brain; so that the sight or sound of fluids, or even ;he idea of them, occasions, equally with their contact, or with that of i current of air, the most distressing convulsions." * The characteristics of the hydrophobic symptoms may be briefly stated as follows :—They are paroxysmal; having marked remissions, md occasionally intermitting. Breathing and deglutition are the func- iions most prominently affected, by spasm of the muscles therewith con- lected. The external surface is extremely irritable. The intellectual unctions are perverted ; often from the first; but not truly deranged till lear the close. The paroxysms are excitable by sight, hearing, touch, thought suggesting the idea of water. The virus of rabies njuri- t^usly affects the nervous centres ; increasing their excitability to such an * Carpenter.