1210 TREATMENT OF STRICTURE. effect as possible, when the patient is not irritable, two or three instru- ments of increasing calibre may be passed one after another, till a size is reached Avhich is as largo as can readily be admitted, and which seems to draw the stricture along with it when being withdrawn. Rest and temperance are essential, for that day. On the second or third thereafter, we expect the uneasiness occasioned by the former introduction to have passed away ; and the operation is repeated; introducing the same instru- ment as was passed at the last visit, then immediately withdrawing it, and substituting a size larger. And this is repeated at longer or shorter intervals, until the full size is passed readily. This last is repeatedly introduced at the ordinary intervals, until all obstruction has fairly dis- appeared ; and then the stricture may be regarded as cured—though not finally disposed of. A tendency to recontraction remains. And, to obviate this, an occasional bougie is reqidred—sometimes termed the protesting bougie—at a gradually iiicreasing interval; the first introduc- tion taking place at the end of a fortnight, then afier a month, then after two months, and so on ; until, after introduction at an interval of six months, all is found normal. Thus only can immunity from relapse be secured. ' Such is the ordinary course of events, in a plain, simple, and uncom- plicated case ; but many circumstances require attention besides. And, in the first place, in commencing the treatment of stricture, it is essential to have regard to the general health, and especially to the state of the urine. If an acrid fluid be frequently passing over the canal, little or no progress can possibly be made ; the disease need not be expected to give way, while a cause of maintenance, if not of origin, is in constant operation. It is also very important that regimen should be strictly regulated ; and that walking exercise should be indulged in as little as possible. Horseback exercise must be absolutely prohibited. In passing the bougie, the instrument is held lightly in the hand, and carried with its point gliding along the upper wall of the urethra, and must never be pressed onwards with much force. In fact, it is always preferable, in passing the instrument, to employ only one hand, without any pulling or stretching of the penis forward upon the bougie. In this way the instrument is less likely to become impacted, the natural obstacles to the passage being more effectually and certainly overcome, while the patient suffers less uneasiness, and the operation is in reality more easily performed. Where the stricture, however, exists in the anterior or pendulous portion of the canal, the penis should be held up- wards in a perpendicular direction, while the instrument is carried through the constriction. It is essential to remember in all instrumenta- tion of the canal that force of propulsion, and tightness of gi'asp, may tear the urethra, pushing the unentered stricture before the instrument's point—if this be kept straight; or, if any divergence be made from the true direction of the canal, the parietes are perforated, and a false pas- sage established. Lightness of grasp, and gentleness of propulsion, permit the instrument to be restrained by the walls of the urethra ; and all such hazards are avoided. The point is pressed steadily on the stric- ture for a short time; and then, withdrawing the hand, we observe whether the instrument resiles, or remains fixed in its place; if the