22G TRANSFUSION. veins. Eest—includmg repose of both body and mind—low diet, cool drinks, ices, and the general regimen suitable for moderation of the cir- culation, will not be neglected. In urgent hemorrhage, opium is of great importance; given in mode- rate doses, frec[uently repeated ; on an average, half a grain or a quarter of a grain, every half hour—but the interval necessarily varying accord- ing to the effect produced. Its main action seems to be by imparting to the system a power of bearing up under the loss of blood ; and at the same time it may asssist in obtaining hemostatic results. Some suppose that the preservative action is by inducing congestion in the brain— " That amount of congestion by which opium occasions apoplexy, when given to persons in health, seems only sufficient to sustain the natural and necessary tension of the cerebral vessels in those who are dying of hemorrhage.* Syncope.—This, when temporary, is Nature's last resource in case^ of urgency. By its occurrence, arresting all flow for the time, lives ai-e often saved; opportunity beiag so afforded for use of the required surgi- cal means. Unless bleeding has been satisfactorily stopped, by treatment of the wound, the condition of faintness is not to be disturbed. "When, how- ever, all has been duly overtaken, and syncope still continues ; Ave naturally become anxious that the patient should emerge from that state. The means are simple. The cause of syncope is twofold; deficient sup- ply of arterial blood in the nervous centres, suspending their functions ; inadequate stimulus to the heart, retarding its play. Both are to be counteracted. The patient is placed recumbent, and all means taken to leave respiration unimpeded—as by slackening or removing tight articles of dress from the chest. The head is placed rather lower than the rest of the body, so as to favour the flow of blood to it. It is a very mis- taken kindness to prop the head with pillows, and otherwise endeavom- to give the ajDpearance of comfort. The heart still acting feebly, and much blood having been lost, it may be advisable, in serious cases, to compress the abdominal aorta and axillary arteries, so as to husband what of the vital fluid remains, and keep it circulating where it is most required ; in the chest and head. By dashing cold water on th( face, applying stimuli to the nostrils, rubbing and compressing tin chest, respiration is favoured ; and by the full establishment of tliis, the heart will be forced, as it were, into renewed play. In desperate cases, galvanism may be employed to restore function in both heart and lungs. Transfusion.—This is the last resort of all. Warrantable, nay de- manded, when circumstances are favourable for its practice; and when there is good prospect of the patient's ultimate survival, were the imme- diate risk by loss of blood removed. There is no time to recruit the circulating system, by chjdous elabo ration on the part of the patient. The blood required, to atone for tlu existing deficiency, must be immediately supplied ; and can be obtained only from some fellow-being who is generous enough to afford it. Foi obvious reasons, a robust healthy person is preferred. * Brit, and For. Rev. 41, p. 107.