781 AFFECTIONS OF THE GUMS. mim comparatively, or absolutely, uninjurccl. Practice is, no doubt, ossoiitial to the skilful and efficient use of forceps; and many instru- ments are required in tbo well-equipped armamentarium, adapted to the confit;uration and lodgment of the tooth to ho removed. In employing either the forceps or key for the extraction of teeth, two indications should bo attended to so as satisfactorily to perform tliis operation. 1. The instrument should grasp not the crown but the neck of the tooth. 2. As the teeth, in leaving their sockets, must break up the alveolus to some extent, the best means of eifecting this with as little expenditure of force as possible, is to turn tho croA\ai of the tooth towards that side which makes tho least resistance, at the same time raising it from its socket. The teeth in the upper jaw should therefore be depressed inwards towards the mouth, those in tho lower jaw, with the exception of the two posterior molars, outwards toAvards the cheeks and lip. Stumps ai'e removed either by means of sharp forceps, introduced between the socket of the fang ; or by a tooth-punch passed between he offending part and its alveolus, making use of a neighbouring sound looth, if necessary, as a fulcrum. Hemorrliage after Extraction. Troublesome bleeding may follow the ordinary extraction of a tooth, id may proceed from one of two causes. An arterial branch, of some ze and activity, may have been implicated in the injury inflicted on the alveolus. Or the patient may be one of those unfortunates afflicted Ivith the hemorrhagic diathesis. The former case is usually manageable pnough. The cavity is first cleared of clot and sponged dry by means of it or cotton wadding crammed into it; then a saturated solution of Ihe perchloride of iron or of matico, applied by means of a small dossil If lint or cotton, is forced do^woi to the very bottom of the alveolus, so as lemporarily to arrest the flow, and afford a dry bed for the superim- posed compress. A strip of lint, steeped in the hemostatic, is then serted firmly into the cavity, by means of a stout probe or director; and le jaws, having been brought together with a compress interposed at the ajured part, are made to exert and maintain a sufficiency of j)ressure on le bleeding point. Or the surgeon, with assistants, may keep up the lequired " animal pressure" by means of their fingers. In the other case, le same local treatment is advisable, with the means suitable to the lemorrhagic diathesis. Tartar on the Teeth. Accumulation of sahvary deposit is to be prevented, for obvious easons; its presence being prejudicial to the gums, to tho mucous bembrane of the cheek and Hps, and to the tongue. The teeth, though pt to loosen, do not decay, but the gums become congested, and the bucoiis membrane is the seat of obstinate and painful ulceration. In pcting removal, care is taken to leave the enamel uninjured. Some- [mes the mass of tartar is larger than tho whole range of teeth to which J is attached, and which it covers except on the free surface. Tho pholc range is seldom equally affected.