1253 HYPOSPADIAS. Hypospadias and Urethral Fistula. The former term denotes au imperfect condition of the urethra, at or near its orifice ; the result sometimes of accident or disease, but usually a congenital malformation. The latter applies to deficiencies in any por- tion of the m-etliral canal; and in the perineum is usually found to be the result of sloughing, following extravasation of urine. There may be a vestige of the normal opening at the apex of the glans, the urethra terminating somewhere behind this; or, as more frequently happens, the anterior portion of the canal—to the extent of an inch or more—appears as if sht up, the margins of the wound having become rounded off; in other words, the lower part of the wall of the canal is deficient. In extreme cases, the whole antepubal part of the urethra may be thus imperfect. The inconveniences of the afiection are—a scattered and ill-projected stream of urine, a flattening out of the organ into a broad thick shelf, which sometimes curves downwards during erection. In some cases this state of matters altogether prevents sexual intercourse; in the slighter examples it certainly tends to inefficient emission of the seminal fluid ; always causing much uneasiness by exposure of the raw, congested, and very sensitive mucous membrane. When the opening in urethral fistula, or in the slighter instances of hypospadias, is small and circular, the actual or galvanic cautery may be advantageously employed, from time to time, to effect closure. Dieffenbach also recommended stimulation of the margins and surrounding parts by a strong tincture of cantharides. If a stricture of the urethra co-exists, the treatment of this should always be a preliminary measure. When there is rather a slitting up, than a deficiency of parts, the edges should be pared and brought together by silver sutures over a catheter. When the parts are actually deficient, autoplasty must be had recourse to ; a portion of integument being borrowed from the neighbouring perineum, scrotum, or prepuce, and engrafted into the hiatus. The great difficulty in closing an aperture existing in the pendulous portion of the urethra, consists in the ten- dency to the occurrence of erection during sleep; and also, though to a much less degree, in the irritation kept up by the passage of urine over the inner aspect of the wound. To avoid the former, a bag of ice should be kept applied to the perineum, or pubes, when the patient is asleep. The latter can always be prevented by making a perineal incision into the membranous portion of the urethra, through which a short catheter can be passed into the bladder, and retained till the wound in front is completely cicatrized In the minor cases, however, which constitute a decided majority, no interference is necessary; the inconveniences, if any, being slight. Hyperspadias or Epiispadias. This is an analogous, but opposite state ; the splitting up—or rather the non-development—having taken place on the dorsal aspect. The chasm may extend from the glans to the symphysis pubis. In general, there is a sufficiency of parts to admit of paring the edges, and approxi- mating them by suture over a catheter. Immediate union is not hkely