1378 AFFECTIONS OF STUMPS. in another, from the areolo-cutaneous tissue dissected up equally on the inner and outer side of the limb, the angle of the flaps meeting in front over the femoral artery which lay exposed in the laceration j in the third, a small flq,p was obtained from the antcro-internal region of the thigh, and a large aieolo-cutaneous one from the trochanteric and gluteal region. Affections of Stumps. Neuralgia of the stump is no unfrequent result of amputation, how- ever skilfully conducted. It is most commonly observed after amputa- tion below the knee, and in the arm and forearm. If no change of structure in the nerve can be detected, the treatment must be such as is suitable for neuralgia in general; and, of the remedies usually found most useful, iron internally, and the light application of nitrate of silver to the part, may be specially mentioned. If neuromata plainly exist, entangled with the dense cicatrix, they ought either to be discon- nected with the nervous centre by subcutaneous section of the nerve upon which they have formed, or altogether removed; and, for this pur- pose, either excision by dissection, or a repetition of the amputation on a minor scale, is necessary ; care being taken, in the fashioning of the stump, and in the after-treatment of it, that the nerves be not again similarly circumstanced. Not unfrequently, however, notwithstanding every care, neuralgia returns—obviously dependent on a general more than on a local cause. The neuralgic part should not be pressed upon, in the adaptation of any artificial limb. Exfoliation from the stump seldom foUows a well-conducted opera- tion. It is most likely to occur, when section has been made iu the dense part of the bone—as in the middle of the femur. The seques- trum may consist of a mere scale from the sawn surface; or it may be of some length—involving the whole thickness of the bone at its lower part, and tapering, upwards, of a cancellous texture. Healing of the wound is necessarily delayed, until detachment and extrusion of the sequestrum have taken place. Sometimes, in an ill-formed stump, or when the soft parts have perished by sloughing, the end of the bone projects uncovered, partially necrosed, and in part, perhaps, expanded like a mushroom covered with large, pouting, firm granulations, the result of transformation of the osseous tissue into granulation material In such a case, renewal of the amputation is necessary; or the maldng of such incisions as may admit of the bone being cleared and sawn through, at a point sufficiently high for obtaining subsequent fleshy covering. The accidents of exfoliation, and protrusion of the end of the bone, ought to be prevented ; by fashioning the flap, or flaps, so as to afford a full covering for the end of the bone—allowance being always made for subsequent contraction and atrophy ; by sawing the bone, carefully, close to its connection with the soft parts—not leaving any portion bare and projecting, stripped of both flesh and periosteum, at the time of the operation; by so conducting the cure as to prevent untoward inflam-