323 EXOSTOSIS. the process of development ceases, the superficial formation of cells being arrested by complete calcareous transformation. When super- ficiaUy situated, as on the skull, external form is interfered with ; and that constitutes the chief inconvenience. Sometimes, its origin may be remotely connected with a blow, or other injury j more frequently there is no assignable cause. No treatment is required. Were a commen- surate formation to take place on the internal aspect of the calvarium, serious disorder of the cerebral functions might ensue; and were accu- racy of diagnosis attainable, removal by the trephine would be expedient. But, fortunately, such an event seldom if ever occurs. 2. The Cancellated Exostosis.—A minor and adventitious bone, of irregular form, projecting from one which is primitive; structurally similar, in all respects, to its parent; having both an external laminated portion and internal cancelli; the latter either continuous with the cancelli of the larger bone, or shut off by the latter's external lami- nated portion. In other words, sometimes the exos- tosis seems to be formed on the parent bone, like the first variety; or it seems to grow out of it. How- ever arranged, it follows the usual course ; first carti- lage, then bone ; the exostosis, as it grows, always being covered by a cartilage of encrustation. When the extreme of growth has been completed, and the tumour remains stationary, then all is found osseous. This kind of exostosis usually occurs only in the long bones of the extremities ; and is most frequent in the femur at its lowest part. The upper end of the humerus is also a common site. In every instance the point of junction of the shaft with the epiphysis is the point of departure of these growths. The ciiucellated texture usually predominates; the ex- ternal laminae being thin and delicate. But in some cases the growth is dense at the neck or origin. There is an investing continuation of the periosteum ; and iliis, usually, is separated from the muscular or other tissue by a serous-looking investing capsule. Sometimes the attachment is by a narrow neck. And however narrow this may be, it does not materially enlarge with the rest of the tumour ; increase taking place only on the latter's circumference. Still, the usual form partakes more of the cylindrical than of the pyriform. This fact, of comparative non-enlargement at the point of attachment, has an important and obvious practical bearing, as regards removal of the formation. In some cases, the size is small, and occasions little or no incon- venience ; in others, the exostosis projects several inches among the muscles of the Hmb, greatly impeding their function. Sometimes the tumour, though small, produces serious inconvenience by pressure on im- portant parts. Growing from the first rib, it has displaced and flattened T'lg. 13.5. Cancellated exostosis ; growing from its most frequent site, the lower part of the femur ; and, as usual, inrlining upwards. After Duuttt.