HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 255 to render the cure both speedy and permanent. With the latter ohject in view, it is often advisahle to continue its use for some time after all trace of the attack has disappeared. It is diu'ing the intervals of attack, and when invasion is expected either from return of the ordinary time, or the appearance of premoni- tory symptoms — that treatment will prove most useful; directed towards removing that abnormal state of system, whether constant or periodic, on which the erysipelatous affection mainly depends. Hospital Erysijjelas.—This term is often applied to the disease, in all its forms, as occurring in hospital practice ; the patient not being ad- mitted while labom-ing under the affection; but having been seized by it, while resident within the institution on account of other ailments. The phlegmonous form is most common under such circumstances. And if the cases prove numerous, either the disease will be found at the same time prevalent out of doors—by reason of untoward atmospheric in- fluence ; or some serious fault will be found in the hospital management, as regards ventilation, dressing of sores, and bestowal and arrangement of patients. The chief peculiarity of hospital erysipelas is that an espe- cially asthenic type prevails; and that, consequently, as a general prac- tice, energetic, spoliative, and depressing antiphlogistics are not advisable iu the treatment. Our attention is to be chiefly directed towards prophylaxis. The number of patients, in one ward, should be few; and those with foul running sores should be carefully segregated. Sores should be dressed lightly, and simply; avoiding all stimulating, acrid applications, lest undue excitement follow, and the spreading or erysipelatous character supervene. JSTo sponges should be permitted to appear within the wards ; and every possible means should be taken, to avoid community of dress- ing, and contamination of sores. Dressing is to be renewed, as often as cleanliness demands. Not unnecessarily; lest the sore resent, and in- flame. Not too seldom; otherwise pus accumulates and putrefies; not only irritating the sore and its vicinity, but polluting the whole atmo- sphere of the ward, and injuring aU its occupants. Ventilation, and general cleanliness of the apartments are most essential. And, as for- merly stated, it is well to use all precautions, as if the disease were undoubtedly contagious. HOSPITAL GAISTGEElSnE OE HOSPITAL SORE. This was, at one time, a scourge of hospitals, both in civil and in miK- tary practice ; especially in the latter. But since both the treatment of sores and the management of hospitals have much improved of late, it is ' f comparatively rare occurrence. And, when it does appear, it seldom mces those formidable and intractable characters, which formerly used carry devastation and death. It seems to have been known and described by the old writers, as l;>tms, Paulus, and Avicenna ; but was not noticed, prominently and istmctly, till the end of the last century, and beginning of tiie present, ihen, from the crowding of wounded men "in hot, dirty, and confined 10