963 FRACTURE OF THE RIBS. recovered from, in maiiy patients it forms the starting-point of serious tlioracic mischief. Sometimes the injury to the ribs and thoracic walls is the least part of a severe crushing force acting on the chest ; laceration of the lungs, heart, and great blood-vessels, accompanying such accident, or even occurring Avhen the elasticity of the walls of the cavity has secured the safety of the ribs and sternum. When the lower ribs are fractured, the corresponding abdominal organs are of course the parts sub- ject to coincident rupture. These circumstances should be borne in mind, in forming an estimate of such a casualty, when it comes to be a subject of medico-legal inquiry. The objects of treatment are, to prevent motion, and to avert inflam- matory or other untoward consequences. A broad flannel binder is applied, and pinned tightly round the chest; the effect of such support of the thorax being to reduce the respiratory movement of the ribs to a minimum. To prevent the bandage gradually working downwards, broad shoulder-straps should be attached to its upper margin in front and behind ; and in severe cases it is well to keep the arm still by supporting it in a sling. With the view of forcing outwards the fragments of the rib or ribs, maintaining them in more accurate contact than they other- wise would be, and also removing their sharp extremities from the pleura, which they might seriously injure, Petit and Lisfranc recom- mend, in cases of fracture from direct violence, that a compress should be laid along the sternum, so as to make that surface equally salient with the spinous ridge of the vertebrse; after which the ordinary thoracic bandage should be applied. Although excellent in principle, however, this device is not found to afford any more satisfactory result in practice than the simple bandage. In severe cases, when the cavity of the pleura contains much air, extravasated blood, or serous accumulation, bandaging must be conducted with great caution, lest it seriously aggravate the already existing dyspnoea. In some simple cases even, the patient cannot hear the pressure of the binder; and in such circumstances it has been suggested, that support should be given to the affected side only, by means of long strips of adhesive plaster, applied diagonally across the chest, at right angles to the axis of the ribs, so as to control their ascent draing respiration (Hannay*). In most cases, it is more convenient to lay the patient upon, or half turned upon, the injured side ; thus securing its quiescence, while the expansion of the sound side is left uninterfered with. Confinement to bed is expedient, in all cases, during the first few days. Eigid antiphlogistic regimen is enjoined; and active anti- phlogistics are not delayed, if pleuritic or other inflammatory accession threaten in the chest. Cough, laughing, talking, and every cause of unnecessary movement of the chest, should be avoided, if possible. Opiates will always check the tickling cough, should treatment for it be deemed requisite. The bandaging is likely to limit or prevent em- physema ; but if this prove diftusive and painful, relief should be given oy punctures. Ordinarily, it does not occur to a great extent, and spontaneously disappears in the course of a few days. * MccL Gazette, November 1845.