THE OPERATION. 1019 u.isis. The sac having been exposed—or nearly so—are we to ojDen it, ixamine the state of its contents, and divide the stricture from within? ov are we to attempt division of this from without, leaving the perito- tu'uin intact, and so escaping the danger of peritonitis? So long ago as 1720, Petit proposed this modification of the procedure—leaving the sac imopened; and tlie proposal met with a varied reception subsequently —^incHning to distrust rather than otherwise. Lately, however, it has been revived under better auspices (Aston Key, Lulce, Gay); and in suitable circumstances, it may be considered as the established and pre- ferable practice. Were it applied indiscriminately, nothing could well be conceived more pernicious; bowel or omentum might be reduced ■when they ought not; or, one stricture having been relieved, another might be left—this second existing in the sac, perhaps below its proper neck, and continuing to embrace the hernial contents with fatal tight- ness after reduction. But, limited to those recent cases of strangulation in which we are certain that the hernial contents are sound and re- ducible, and in which we are also certain that the only stricture is that which we propose to divide—then, doubtless, the extra-peritoneal opera- tion is by much to be preferred. It is also suitable in cases of irreducible hernia, which have become strangulated; and in which, from their large size, the exposure of peritoneum may reasonably be expected to prove especially hazardous.* If the case appear favourable for extra-peritoneal division, the investing textures are carefully incised at the neck of the tumour, so as to admit the point of the finger, or at least the finger's nail, in con- tact with the tight orifice of the abdominal aperture; and then on the finger's point, so introduced, a probe-pointed bistoury is passed, and by it the necessary enlargement is efi'ected. If the stricture be in the neck of the sac itself, even that may perhaps be relieved extra-peritoneally, by carefully scratching the outer surface by the point of the knife. Then the taxis is appKed; the parts are reduced—^the contents going first, and gradually, otherAvise stricture might remain after reduction; if the unopened sac be non-adherent, it is pushed back also ; the wound is brought together; and, by suitable adaptation of compress and ban- dage, and avoidance of the ordinary exciting causes, reprotrusion is prevented. There is always the possibihty of adherent and entangled bowel and omentum being reduced en masse, which may maintain the symptoms of strangulation. And, therefore, should these continue unre- lieved, a second operation should be had recourse to, by opening the sac, as already mentioned, and feeling with the finger introduced into the abdominal cavity for the portion of bowel which had been reduced. This should be drawn down and examined, if it feel distended, tense, or * Indiscriminate performance of the exti-a-peritoneal operation must often lead to serious and fatal eiTor. Selection must always be carefully made. For objections to the operation, vide Hakcock, Observations on the Operation for Strangulated Hernia, Lend. 1850. t According to Mr. Luke, the site of stricture may be ascertained previously to operation, by making impulse on the fundus of the tiimour with one hand, while tlie other is placed on the neck. Wherever impulse stops, there is the stricture.—Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxxi.