533 DIAGNOSIS OF FIlACTUrtE. direction, should bo carefully noticed; comparing it for this purpose with its follow ; and bearing in mind, at the same time, that in an accidental case, where the surgeon has no previous acquaintance with the patient, such deformities as are present may be due to old standing disease, or some previous injury. Furthermore, in estimating the changes which appear to be present in the injured limb, regard must be had to the position of parts. Thus, when the lower extremity seems shortened, the patient lying fairly on his back, the difference in the length of the Umbs can be determined only after being assured of the horizontal posi- tion of the two anterior superior iUac spines ; measurement from these as fixed points being resorted to, if need be, accurately to settle the matter. The normal relation of certain prominences should also be borne in mind; thus the inner side of the great toe should correspond, in a sound limb lying horizontal, to the inner side of the patella; while, if it correspond to the outer side, fracture of both bones of the leg may almost certainly be determined as the cause of the change. The site where pain is most intensely felt should next be accurately determined, both by inquiry at the patient, and—especially if he is only partially sensible—by careful maniprdation of the part. This of itself will fre- quently suffice to decide, in a case of injury of the wrist or ankle, between sprain of the ligamentous apparatus of the respective joints, and fracture— of the radius in the one example, of the fibula in the other. Next, the presence of displacement of the bone at the site of injury should be carefully noted; pressing gently along the prominent spine of the tibia or scapula, for example, and finding the projecting rising end of the bone, then a hiatus, and then again the portion of bone which naturally should have been continuous—displaced and carried away laterally, longi- tudinally, or by rotation, as the case may be. Not till the surgeon has satisfied himself as to all these particulars, should he proceed to examine for the detection of crepitus, and increased mobility at the seat of fracture ; and in many cases, he will already be so certain of his diagnosis (inde- pendently of these physical signs) as to be able at once to inform the patient and his friends of the nature of the injury, and obtain the requi- site apparatus for treating the fracture. In this way the patient is saved unnecessary pain, the pain of manipulation and of the so much dreaded " setting" being merged in one. The procedure then is as follows :— The patient having been arranged in a suitable posture, the distal ex- tremity of the injured bone is taken hold of by the surgeon's right hand, while his left is placed over the seat of injury. With the right hand—or when he limb is large, by the aid of an assistant—the limb is gently extended, till normal length is nearly or altogether restored; then, while extension is maintained, gentle rotation is made ; and the fingers of the left hand or both hands are used to coaptate, so as to bring the broken fragments—if such there be—in contact, that they may rub on each other, and thus emit the characteristic and decisive crepitus. At the same time, by the increased amount of mobility at the seat of injury, it is made apparent that solution of continuity exists in the shaft of the bone; the lower fragment being now found to roll in obedience to the rotatmg movements of the manipulator, while the upper, just as plainly, 18 unaffected by them.