887 CERVICAL DISEASE. purative results. At first there are tliickening, hardness, and tenderness ou pressure; indicating the ostitic and periostitic stage. Afterwards, when matter forms, the bones are found rarified by transformation of the osseous tissue and the development of caries; while portions may be detached in the form of sequestra. There are pain—most severe at night, and aggravated on pressure or motion—swelling, and the other usual signs of an advancing process of osseous disorganization. More or less de- formity, by angular curvature, necessarily precedes, accompanies, and succeeds; and is due to change in the form of the bones. As can be readily understood, deglutition is early and much interfered with; and by encroachment on, and involvement of, the spinal cord and the roots of the cervical nerves, serious results are likely to occur, as regards respiration. The functions of the superior extremities, too, may be°perilled, by affection of the brachial plexus. The disease is generally connected, in the patient's narrative, with external injury; and the per- sons most Hkely to be affected are the young and strumous. 3. Or disease may originate in the articulating textures ; ultimately inducing similarly destructive results. When the inflammatory disease attacks the atlas, axis, and the occipital condyles, the symptoms are even better marked than when it affects the bones lower down. The violence of the pain renders all movements of the head impossible, and even eating or speaking are attended with severe darting pains through the parts. On account of the great natural mobility of that portion of the neck, the patient finds it necessary to afford his head additional external support; and this he does with his hands. His expression becomes anxious, and expressive of great suffering. As the disease advances, and suppuration ensues, the pressure caused by the pus upon the lower part of the medulla oblongata gives rise to violent peripheral pains, sickness, and vomiting, with loss of voice and power of deglutition. His inspiration becomes laboured, general paralysis is established, or convulsions ensue and terminate his miserable existence. In other cases', destruction of the transverse ligament of the atlas and its superior and inferior appen- dages admits of the head and atlas falling forwards, so that the odontoid process of the axis compresses the medulla oblongata, and produces sudden death. Sometimes the patient dies simply from exhaustion. In rare instances the abscess opens into the upper part of the pharynx, portions of bone are discharged, and recovery may take place. It is rare, however, for the abscess to open before the patient's death. The obvious treatment of such cases is to endeavour to arrest the progress of the disease by keeping the part at rest. All suddenness of motion in the neck is especially to be avoided; indeed, as we have seen in most cases, the patient has an instinctive dread of such risk, and care- fully guards against it; turning the head slowly, and with the chin sup- ported on the hand. In the case of disease affecting the atlas and den- tata, such precaution is particularly necessary; lest by sudden rupture of the ligamentous apparatus, displacement should occur, causing fatal compression of the medulla. The indication is effected by rest in the recumbent posture, with the head, neck, and shoulders kept steady by means of a suitable splint. This is best made of hard leather, moulded, ■when softened in hut water, to the form of the occiput, neck, and dorsal