TREATMENT OF COMPOUND FRACTURE. 548 period. Or it may bo the consequence of an invasion of slougliing-pliage- dtena. If such bleeding be trivial, evidently proceeding from a vessel of no great magnitude, it may be restrained by pressure, moderately but accurately applied. If on the contrary it be important, and plainly from a vessel of high class, ligature of the bleeding vessel at the bleeding point should unhesitatingly be attempted; only in the event of failure, resorting to restraining pressure assisted by dehgation of the main arterial trunk on the cardiac aspect. The process of cure is not necessarily delayed, or rendered imperfect, by the occurrence of such an accident. Should direct deligation fail—as is not likely—or the Hunterian ligature prove insufficient, which is also not improbable—amputation is the last resource; but one which, fortunately, seldom requires to be adopted. In the case of badly united fracture yet recent, a question may arise as to Avhether it may not be forcibly disrupted with a view to better ad- justment. The answer will necessarily depend on the probable facihty and safety with which such a manipulation may be effected : the risks being, non-union, on the one hand, and inflammatory excess on the other. Besides, the force apphed may possibly produce a fracture not at the original site. Another consideration of course wiU be in reference to the existing usefulness and appearance of the limb; much deformity and impairment of function warranting the attempt at amendment, more especially in compliance with an urgent wish on the part of the patient. In some extreme cases it has been thought advisable even to cut down upon the parts, and by sawing off, or out, a sufficient amount of bone, so to effect readjustment, though at the risks inseparable from the com- pound form uf injury. Diastasis {hiadrasig, separation). Sometimes, in the adolescent, an epiphysis is the means of preventing compound dislocation, and deter- mining compound fracture. For instance, when a severe wrench is sustained at the ankle, the natural tendency is probably to compound luxation of the tibia inwards, but the bone yields at the connection of its shaft with the epiphysis ; the latter portion remain undisturbed in its place; while the lower end of the shaft, of a transverse and indented aspect, protrudes through the integument. This form of accident is termed Diastasis—and is amenable to the same trea' ment as compound fracture in general. In most cases, it is rather a favourable occurrence than otherwise ; th patient being Kkely to suffer less, and to retain a more useful limb, than after compound dislocation. Occasionally, diastasis takes place without wound o the soft parts. The condyles of the femur, for example, may be twisted from the shaft. The same treatment is required as for simple fracture; with perhaps more ear- in both reduction and retention. Sometimes the diastasis is accompanied with more or less rotation, Fig. 219. Diastasis of feinur. Eciuiited. Fig. 219.