EXTIUI'ATION 01<' THE CEKVIX UTERI, Tho patient is laid on her back, in the position for lithotomy ; or flat on her face, with the hips raised, and the legs dependent. The cervix is seized by strong hooked forceps, and gently but determinedly dragged downwards, till it appears at the os vaginae, through which it is at length drawn. If the patient has never borne children, or if the os vagince be small and contracted, it may be dilated by one, two, or three small incisions, made either posteriorly or laterally. The labia are now to be kept separated, and out of the way of the knife, by copper spatulse, bent into a convenient shape. After the cervix has been dra^vn down, the insertion of the vagina is made out, in order to judge of the position of the peritoneal reflections, and to avoid including the bladder in the incisions. The necessary amount is then taken away, either by large and powerful scissors, or by the probe-pointed bistoury. Our chief con- fidence for the arrest of hemorrhage is to be placed in the use of com- presses soaked in the perchloride of iron ; or, to prevent all risk of bleed- ing, the ecraseur may be employed instead of cutting instruments. The amount of blood may be inconsiderable ; or a large quantity may be lost. And it may happen that a case, otherwise adapted for the operation, may be unable to bear, without the greatest risk, even a small loss of blood. Under such circumstances, a modification of the operation may be resorted to. After dragging down and exposing the cervix, it may be encircled in a strong ligature ; or it may be transfixed, as often as may seem fit, by a needle armed with a double ligature ; the difi"erent portions being separately tied. And the part below the ligature may then be excised with safety. Malignant Disease of the Uterus May assume one of three principal forms; the corroding ulcer, malig- nant ulceration without much interstitial cancerous product; the cauH- flower excrescence, springing from the cervix ; and the common cancer of the uterus, which may be scirrhous or encephaloid, very rarely colloid. The Corroding Ulcer is not a common afi'ection. It is distinguished from simple ulceration by its irregular surface, by the foetor and profuse- ness of the discharge, by the occurrence of hemorrhages, by the nature of the pain, which is generally severe and lancinating, by the unhealthy malignant local characters, and by the presence of the malignant cachexia of system. From ordinary cancer of the womb it is easily known, by the want of extensive induration, by the mobility of the womb; and often, though not always, want of tenderness to touch is also distinctive. As it advances, it consumes or corrodes the tissues ; spreading into the uterine cavity; attacking and destroying the recto-vaginal, and vesico- vaginal septa. The disease is irremediable. Eut attempts have been made to arrest its progress while the cervix alone was implicated, by excising that part in the usual way. Frequently, the use of caustics seems to retard advance, to improve the nature of the discharges, and to diminish tlie tendency to repeated hemorrhage. For this purpose, the pencil of lunar caustic, or of chloride of zinc, and the actual cautery, are of most service. The extreme foetor of discharge is to be corrected by copious use of the