CONDYLOMA. 1160 guDi and mercurial plaster applied to tte part, will be found very well adapted for inducing gradual removal of the enlargement. The scrofulous glandular affection requires nothing further than the treatment already described when the parts are tender and inflamed. Stimulation by means of a blister is, however, usually advisable when suppuration is threatened, or when the swelling remains undecided whether to suppurate or resolve. The aperture in the groin, which remains after the opening of a bubo, usually requires support and pressure by means of a pad and bandage, as well as the employment of an astringent lotion ; and in many cases tonics and cod-liver oil will be found specially adapted to the state of the patient's health and strength. In some very chronic cases of prolonged suppuration or tedious progress towards healing in a sinus in the groin, which runs deeply among the tissues, hot sea-water bathing, with blister- ing and pressure, will be found of great service—preventing the necessity of extended and deep incision. It was a question at one time whether or not bubo may be truly a primary form of syphilis; occurring without the formation of sores, of any kind, on any part of the penis ; capable of producing venereal sores, by inoculation of the matter which may form by its suppuration; and liable, when of the multiple and indurated kind, to be followed by con- stitutional pox. Such buboes " (TemhUe " never occur. They are always the result, more or less remote, of a chancre which has been overlooked. Buho of the Penis is said to exist, when the lymphatics on the dorsum are continuously affected by inflammatory disease; and when—usually about the middle of the organ—paiaful swelling takes place, with much inflammatory product, threatening to advance to central suppuratiom Pus generally forms; and may be at once evacuated externally, or may burrow extensively beneath the fascia. Treatment is by rest, and fomen- tation, in acute cases. Cond^Jloma. Condylomata are tubercular elevations of the integument; sometimes white upon the surface, as if the elevated part had been pencilled over with nitrate of silver; sometimes of a mucous pulpy appearance, and dark reddish-brown or copper colour ; sometimes dry, and covered with a desquamating and fine cuticular layer; sometimes exhaling a copious, thin, acrid, and very foetid discharge; forming usually on the nates, around the anus, in the folds of the thighs, on the perineum, on the scrotum—in the female on the labia; but also affecting the Kning mem- brane of the prepuce, the surface of the glans, and the orifice of the urethra. The angles of the mouth, the commissure of the eyelids, and also of the toes, the cavity of the umbiKcus, the axilla, and folds of the cutaneoiis surface, may also become affected. In females who employ large quantities of oil in dressing the hair, and in whom the hair hangs over the neck, well-marked condylomata may even appear on the skin of the nucha. The secondary affections of the buccal, faucial, and vaginal mucous membrane, consisting of elevated, aaid more or less rounded, oval, or elongated patches, with a wliitened surface as if acted on by nitrate of silver, or coated witli milk, are also of this nature.