HEMORRHOIDS. 1046 belladonna ointment, or by chloroform made into the form of ointment or by hot poultices medicated strongly with opium in solution. Very frequently, however, such local treatment is ineffectual; and then a simple and sUght operation is required. By means of the fore-fmger and a bistoury a vertical iiacision is made tlirough the mucous coat, including the fissure. And thus the irritable sore is at once converted into a simple wound, which first inflames, and then heals in the usual manner. But should tliis fail—as will not often be the case—the knife has again to be used; pressing it more deeply, the sphincter ani is divided ; and the part, thus set at rest, quickly heals. To recapitulate; in all cases, great and primary care of the stomach and bowels is necessary ; with this, some fissures heal under ordinary local treatment suitable to irritable sores; others require simple incision; and others, more obsti- nate, demand in addition division of the sphincter. Ulcers of the mucous membrane of the anus are liable to assume the irritable character, and then are productive of the same distressing symptoms as fissure. They require, and are subject to, similar treat- ment. Situated more internally, they are not ordinarily visible, even on the most careful examination. The finger, cautiously introduced, may detect them, by the peculiar feeling which the xdcerated part conveys to the examiner, and by the great increase to the patient's suffering which is invariably produced by pressure upon the affected part of the boweL By means of the speculum their exact circumstances may be accurately surveyed. In those cases which evince no great irritability, tannin is often a most serviceable local application, in the form of ointment or suppository. Immediately in front of the coccyx—that is, at the back part of the anus—a broad and deep ulcer, capable of receiving the finger's point, is not unfrequently observed. Por this, exposure by the speculum, and the application of nitric acid, or nitrate of mercury, are usually neces- sary. It should be borne in mind that chancres sometimes ai-e met Avith in this situation, not only in females, but also in men. The surgeon should therefore be careful, in dividing the base of an ulcer situated within the verge of the anus, to guard against puncture of his own fingers. Hemorrlioids. Hemorrhoids, or Piles, are divided into two kinds; External and Internal; the former situated without, the latter within the sphincter. They seldom occur before puberty, and are perhaps more common in females than in males; certainly more troublesome to the higher than to the lower ranks of life. The predisposing causes are whatever tends to determine blood to the rectum, and to retard the return of blood Irom it; habitual constipation, pregnancy, abdominal tumours of any kind, torpor of the liver, excitement of the generative organs, sedentary avoca- tions with luxurious living. And the exciting causes are Avhatever acts irritatingly on the bowel itself, as purging, bihous diarrhoea, exposure to cold and wet, etc. External hemorrlioids consist either of a congeries of varicose veins, which form tense, rounded, dark blue swellings, covered M'ith mucous mem-