960 SPINA BIFIDA. tive; tke lower limbs, esjjecially, being slu-unk, paralytic, or deformed ; and other congenital malformations, of a land more seriously compro- mising life, may, but do not necessarily co-exist. The disease is not in itself inevitably fatal. In some cases, manipulation of the sac produces no uneasiness ; in others, symptoms of spinal, or even of cerebral irrita- tion, are at once induced. Hydrocephalus sometimes complicates its progress. In the most favourable cases, the tumour may enlarge slowly, if at all; and the child's growth may advance unintelTuptedl3^ When the tumour does enlarge by accumulation of fluid, the coverings grow thin; and if a small opening forms, the contents drain gradually away, and, the tumour gradually shrinking, the parts become satisfactorily consolidated. Or ulceration occurs ; the tumour collapses j an inflamma- tory process attacks the spinal cord and its membranes ; and the patient perishes either directly in consequence, or by hectic. Curative treatment is attempted only in cases in which interference is called for, on account of enlargement of the sac ; and when, from the otherwise thriving condition of the patient, the case affords a reasonable prospect of successful issue. In some cases, it is enough to palliate and prevent increase. In others, we get rid of the swelhng, hoping that the fissure in the spinal column may close ; or, at all events, that such con- solidation shall take place as may eff'ectually prevent recurrence of the protrusion. By steady and uniform support and pressure from mthout, not only is increase prevented ; absorption may also be occasioned; and the tumour having become slowly discussed, an opportunity may be thus given for closure of the vertebral hiatus. Along with the use of pres- sure, occasional puncturing of the cyst with a needle may be practised (Sir A. Cooper), so as to expedite the process ; or the fluid may be at once drawn off with a small trocar and canula. And the injection of tincture of iodine, as for hydrocele, has been not only proposed, but actually practised with an alleged good result. By including the tumour in two elliptical incisions, which penetrate the w^hole thickness of its coverings, the fluid is at once evacuated; and then, on bringing and retaining the margins of the wound in contact by means of wire sutures, such a degree and kind of traction is made upon the parts beneath as may favour, very much, the desired closure of the spinal fissure.* In dissecting away the part included in the elliptical incisions, care must be taken to injui-e the nervous expansions on iis in- ternal aspect as little as possible. The head, too, should not be kept high; otherwise the fluid of the sheath is apt to escape too suddenly. This operation is warrantable only in those cases in which the fissure is slight, the tumour pedunculated, and other circumstances favourable. As a preliminary to it, the tumour having been tapped, the lateral pressure of a clamp has been employed with the view of producing adhesion of the opposed surfaces of the sac, before resorting to removal of the bag of integument and sac beyond the level of the circumjacent surface. After such proceedings, there is obviously very great danger of the induction of fatal results, from inflammatory seizure of the spinal contents. The simplest of all—puncture with needles, or the use of the small trocar * Diiboui-g, Gazette Medicale de Paris, Juillet 31, 1841; and Brit, and For. Kev. No. 24, p. 547.