ABSCESS OF THE DURA MATER. G16 Fig. 234. hemiplegia—masking, in their turn, those of the inflammatory cliaractet. Then, as to tlie part. The bone is in a state of necrosis ; and this condi- tion will certainly be indicated externally. If tliere be a wound, the granulations, instead of presenting the appearance of health and heahng, , will disappear, or become pale and glassy; and the discharge may for a i time cease—returning thin, non-laudable, perhaps sanguineous. If the pericranium be exposed, it will be found separating more and more from a the bone beneath, with pus interposed. If the bone be denuded, it will be found white, dry, sonorous, i non-vascular—in fact, at first i dying, and then speedily dead. I If the scalp have not been divided li either by accident or by design, itil is the seat of what is termed^ " the pufiy tumour ; " a swelling^ of greater or less extent, caused^ partly by accumulation of pusJ between the necrosed bone andJ its pericranium, partly by chang^ of structure in the soft parts exn teriorly, which are involved more or less in the extending inflammatoi process, and are consequently the seat of the inflammatory productsj Indeed, this " pufiy tumour," though a valuable and peculiar sign of the internal evil, is not to be regarded as of a special nature; being onlylj the ordinary product of ripe inflammatory change; csdema by serr externally, fibrinous product more deeply, and accumulated pus overlayJ ing the bone. These symptoms, local and constitutional, occurring together, denot interior suppuration at the injured part. The local signs " following smart blow on the head, and attended with languor, pain, restlessne watching, quick pulse, headach, and slight irregular shiverings, almost infallibly indicate an infiamed dura mater, and pus either forming or formed between it and the cranium."* Treatment.—The general principles applicable to the treatment o;| abscess must be carried out, if possible. The pus must be evacuated es ternally; and that at as early a period as possible ; as soon as Ave satisfied, by conjunction of the local and constitutional signs, that matte has formed. The local symptoms alone are not a sufiicient warrant fol operative interference; neither are the constitutional ones of febrile exi citement followed by rigors; but when coma, with hemiplegia on the sid<^ opposite to that where the injury has been inflicted, and the pufiy seal) or dry glassy wound co-exist, they render the diagnosis of pus or curd.i lymph between the dura mater and skull almost absolute, and certainlij * Pott, vol. i. p. 41. Fig. 234, Plan, illustrative of abscess of tlxe dura mater, a, the cranium; h, J suppurated space left by detachment of the dura mater ; c, ditto, by elevation of thf pericranium ; h and c constitute the suppurated central space of the inflamniatorij disc ; d, the arc of phistic change; c, that of serous product; c, d, c, constitutin j Pott's puify tumour.