377 NEURALGIA OF JOINTS. toms sufficiently distinct; a circumstance of much importance, seeing that the appropriate treatment is very cliiferent from that which is de- manded for structural change. Pain has the ordinary character of the nervous; remittent, intermittent, not slowly and steadily increasing, not constant, not increased hy pressure, and not limited to one part, hut dif- fused over the whole of a wide extent of surface. The patient's mind may he diverted from the uneasiness, hy conversation, or otherwise en- gaging the attention; and while the mind is so occupied the pain is really ahsent. There is no swelling. At least, if there he, it is hut trivial in all respects ; a mere puffiness, hy csdema of the surface; not at all resemhling what follows inflammatory change in any of the tex- tures of the joint. Motion is well home—especially when unohserved ; and so is manipulation, even rude ; the uneasy sensations are not in- creased by either. The joint itself may he jarred, pressed, jerked, with impunity; whereas, much complaint may follow pinching of the super- imposed integument; that texture, sometimes, seeming to he of greatly increased sensihihty. There is no fixed flexion of the joint, as in serious structural change j on the contrary, the hmh may frequently he found extended. The spasms, too, are wanting, which so commonly attend and invariably aggravate acute inflammatory disease. The patient is obviously out of health ; and labours under irritation, general as well as local. But the system is uninvolved in either inflammatory or hectic fever. This affection occurs more frequently in females than in males. And usually, the symptoms will be found at least connected with, if not caused by, disorder of an internal organ. In hysterical women joint- affections are sometimes altogether fictitious ; imagined or pretended. In children, some affections of the joints, apparently neuralgic, would seem to depend on the irritation of dentition. Treatment is mainly directed towards the general system; restoring normal functions to the uterus, stomach, and intestines, as the circum- stances of the case may require. Local apphcations need be but simple. The serious treatment for structural change would be not only unneces- sary, but certain to prove injurious. Something much lighter is required; such as the application of a belladonna plaster, or ointment, the use of dry cupping, Faradization, or the endermic use of nitrate of silver so as merely to blacken the surface. This is not only really efficient towards mitigation of the neuralgia; but also, having an imposing character in the eyes of the patient, is useful by satisfying the mental anxiety, which always attends, and sometimes is not the least prominent of the symp- ■ toms. Medicated friction, or fomentation, may also prove of service, in a similar manner. But every stimulus, at all powerful, should be either abstained from or most cautiously used ; inasmuch as the morbid ner- vous condition of the part may here, as elsewhere, prove but a stepping- stone towards inflammatory accession, entailing serious structural change. The vital importance of a careful diagnosis need not be insisted on : lest, on the one hand, we treat with unwarrantable severity a compara- tively trifling disorder; and, on the other hand, lest we commit tlie greater error of supposing a really formidable change of structure in bone, cartilage, or synovial membrane, to be but a nervous aflection, and do