1058 OPERATION FOR ARTIFICIAL ANUS. SO, howevev, when it opens into the vagina; sucli an aperture liaving Bufficed tlu'ougliout a long life for affording a free passage to the ftcces The opening can easily bo occluded after the vagina ha-s Lecoine sullici- ently developed to admit of operative manipulations ; it is more difficult to maintain the patency of the substitute opening made between the coccyx and posterior fourchette. Of the existence of the third variety we are made aware, when, after waiting for days, not even the slightest indication of bulging or fulness can be detected in the perineum. A perineal wound and exploration may be made ; but with scarcely a hope of success. And, failing in this, we have either to abandon the patient to his fate, or proceed to the establishment of an artificial anus. TJie Formation of an Artificial Anus. The question of artificially establishing an outlet for the contents of the intestinal canal, elsewhere than in the normal site, comes to be entertained, when the rectum is congenitally deficient, and also when it has become in any way insuperably obstructed, by simple stricture, or by carcinomatous and extensive degeneration, by the impaction of an intestinal concretion or of some foreign substance from without, or by the invagination of the lower part of the descending colon tlu'ough the sigmoid flexure into the rectum. In the case of the child, probably the operation will seldom be deemed expedient j for when such a grave mal- formation exists—as entire deficiency of the bowel—others usually accompany it, rendering the viability of the patient under any circum- stances very questionable. It were better to leave such to perish, by the original obstruction of the bowels, than to force on them a more miser- able and scarcely less brief period of existence. In the case of mahgnant disease of the rectum, also, practitioners may well hesitate, before having recourse to a difficult and serious operation, for the purpose of attempt- ing but partial and temporary relief, in an affection which must at no distant period end fatally. In such a case, it would seem to be warrant- able only under the following circumstances : when the general strength is not yet greatly exhausted by malignant cachexy ; when the obstruc- tion in the bowel is complete, and plainly insuperable by any direct treatment; when the patient—having had the danger of the operation, and the almost disgusting result of its success, plainly exhibited—him- self decides on its performance, and is prepared to abide both the nuisance and the risk. On the other hand, when the rectum is imperviously obstructed by the impaction of foreign matter from Avithin or from with- out, or by disease not malignant nor necessarily and speedily fatal, and when such obstruction is otherwise insuperable—the expediency of the operation may be safely urged upon the patient. The lower part of the colon is plainly the part of the intestinal canal to be reached ; and it may be sought either from before or from behind. The former method, first proposed by M. Littr6 (1720), is of easy per- formance ; being merely a direct incision upon the bowel througli the abdominal parietes and peritoneum, above the left groin. The operation, however, though most simple, is liazardous to life ; and, if successful,