658 TKICIIIASIS. wliicli the patient has antecedently suffered. Mercury and iodide ol potassium will, in such cases, prove of great service, and a satisfactory ro8ult may be anticipated—though a considerable interval may be ex- pected to elapse before the muscles regain their power. Trichiasis, and Distichiasis. Trichiasis denotes inversion of the eyelashes, whereby much irrita- tion is induced on the surface of the eyeball. The inversion may impli- cate the whole cilia, or only a few. It may occur in either lid; but is most frequent in the upper. The position of the eyelid itself Ls not altered. At first there is merely inconvenience; but, sooner or latei, an inflammatory process is established on the surface of the eyeball, and consequent danger to vision may prove great. Treatment is either palliative or radical. The former consists in evulsion, from time to time, of the erring cilia, and mitigation of tlii; irritation and inflammatory process which they may have occasioned. For evulsion, a pair of broad-pointed forceps, with their opposing sur- faces in accui'ate contact, are required ; for the hairs are usually slender and light coloured ; and, besides, the assistance of a lens is o necessary. This method is on the whole unsatisfactory; and is o applicable to those cases in whicb but a few of the cilia are in fault. To efifect a radical cure, it is essential that the lashes be not onl removed, but that their non-reproduction shall be insured. One of methods may be followed. The errant ciKa may be plucked out, their bulbs destroyed. Or the bulbs and cilia both may be removed '' cutting instruments. The former method is apphcable to the pa trichiasis; the latter to the complete. If the former be chosen, an inc' sion is made with the point of a lancet, on the free margin of the H down to the roots of the inverted ciHa ; into this little opening a nee or another lancet, coated with powdered tartrate of antimony, is iuserte —allomng it to remain so that its coating may dissolve there; and hairs are then pulled out. A small pustule forms, and the bulbs a~ destroyed.* When it is our object to remove not only the cilia but their bulbs, ! horn sj)atula is introduced beneath the lid, and an incision is made do to the tarsus along the whole length of the iuverted portion, parallel and about a line from the ciliary marghi, to which it is to be connect at each extremity; the ciliary edge is then to be laid hold of with for' ceps, and the integuments carefully dissected from the cartilage, so as include the bulbs without interfering with the mucous edge of the U When the part cicatrizes, little deformity will result. Or, the margin the lid is laid hold of and stretched, by the fingers of the left hand, o by forcejis ; and by the stroke of scissors, or the sweep of a fine biston the requisite amount is taken away. By operating in this way, mor deformity will be produced than by the former plan; but by eithei the eyeball Avill be freed from a continual source of irritation. Th objection to any of these methods, whicli have for their object th destruction of the cilia, is that the eye is loft unprotected, particles c- * Edinlmrgli Monthly Jnuriial, April ISJl, p. 250.