998 FAKACENTESLS ABDOMINIS. hemorrhago might ensue by the giving way of one or more abdominal veins suddenly deprived of their ordinary support. Or, independently of ruptuVe, alarining syncope might take place, from gi-eat or sudden accumulation of blood witliin the abdominal veins.* It is well to ascer- tain that the bladder is empty. An aperture having been clipped in the bandage, an incision is made through the skin and fascia by a lancet or scalpel; and then perforation is completed by a large trocar and cauula. The trocar having been withdrawn, the canula renuiins, and through this the fluid escapes ; thin and albuminous, or viscid, ropy, and variously discoloured. Fluid having ceased to come, the canula is withdrawn, the wound is covered by a compress, and the general bandage of the abdomen is drawn tightly and secured. This cure by tapping is an excellent instance of the surgeon taking a lesson from the plans sometimes adopted spontaneously by Nature. Examples of the simple cyst, and more rarely of the multilocular, have been cured by spontaneous discharge of the contained fluid from openings through the umbiUcus, or some other part of the abdominal wall, or by discharge of the fluid by the vagina, rectum, or bladder. The point usually selected for the opening is in the linea alba, about midway between the umbihcus and symphysis pubis. But it may be made in the linea semilunaris, should the bulging cyst render that locality preferable. The trocar employed for tapping may be the ordi- nary large-sized instrument commonly employed in cases of ascites. To avoid all risk of the sac sUpping off the extremity of the canula, the long curved trocar for puncture of the bladder may be used, or an instru- ment may be made for the purpose from six inches to a foot in lengtL By some, again, the middle portion of the cannla is made of gum-elastic material, so as to admit. of its curving to suit the subsidence of the cyst as the fluid becomes evacuated. To avoid the entrance of air, the canula may be of twice the usual length, while the stylet is made to slide within it as a piston, the retraction of which permits the fluid to escape from the canula by a side aperture, to wliich a caoutchouc tube is attached of sufficient length to convey the fluid directly into the paiL A neAV form of trocar has recently been introduced. The stylet is a steel tube sliding within the canula, and the extremity of this tube is rendered sharp and penetrating by being sloped obliquely Hke a cut quill and ground to a cutting edge and point. "WHien the sac has been entered, the inner tube is retracted, and the canula pushed onwards until that portion of it .which has a series of prismatic ledges projectuig from its surface has partially passed the parietes and entered the cyst, so as to secure retention of the aperture in the sac in correspondence with that of the walls of the abdomen. By the use of pressure after tapping, the Avails of the cyst are made to collapse, and the mass comes to form a comparatively small fii"ni tumour in one side of the pelvis. When such pressure is resorted to m the hope of cure, it should be kept up for some months; as these tumours have been known to refill, after they have lain in the pelvic * By keeping the patient horizontal on the side, during the whole period of the operation, the necessity for bandaging and pressm-e may sometimes be in a great pleasure superseded.