345 TKEATMENT OF SOKOFULOUS SYNOVIAL DISEASE. arc usually adolescents ; and evince, more or loss strongly, the scrofulous cachexy. A slight injury, as a blow, strain, or twist, may or may not have been sustained by the part. The joint slowly swells, and has its motion more and more impaired; but little or no pain is experienced.^ The swelling is soft, doughy, somewhat clastic, but totally devoid of anything like true fluctuation; the integuments are pale, and scarcely tense; and even free pressure and manipulation may be comparatively •well borne. In this indolent condition, the joint may continue for months. But, faihng gradual cure, suppuration usually supervenes. During the progress of this disease—and, indeed, the observation may be extended to almost all serious and chronic structural changes of joints—the whole limb undergoes an atrophy; hard textures as well as soft. The bones become more slender in their shafts, and of less density ; the ligaments are opened out in texture and softened, and thus permit an increased degree of lateral mobility of the articulation, or even spon- taneous displacement of the articular surfaces, to take place ; the adipose tissue disappears by absorption; the muscles grow flabby, pale, small, and weak; and in the lower part of the limb, passive congestion and oedema are not unfrequent. It may be here stated, also, that in many examples of diseased joint, in whatever texture morbid change may have originated, the advanced stage is often complicated by enlargement of the lymphatic glands j sometimes indolent, sometimes active and prone to suppuration—occur- ring in the axilla, from diseased elbow, for example ; in the groin, from diseased hip or knee. The complication is a serious one ; and ought always to be taken into account, in both treatment and prognosis. Treatment.—In the early stage, local treatment is the same as for simple chronic synovitis ; rest and counter-irritation. Constitutionally, the ordinary remedies are to be employed, whereby the system's taint may be most hopefully opposed ; and this anti-strumous treatment must be maintained, unweariedly, throughout. When the indolent condition has become thoroughly declared, pressure and rest constitute the principal remedial means. These, indeed, are powerful agents of cure in all chronic alfections oi joints, however originated ; whether occurring in their' hard or soit tissues; but most hopeful in the latter case, as can readily be imagined. And there is every reason to believe, that to the more skilful, as well as more frequent use of these remedial means, the marked improvement in the treatment of diseased joints, in modern times, is largely to be attri- 1 buted. Many an articulation is now saved, which formerly would have i| been imhesitatingly doomed to the knife. ! _ Much credit is due to Mr. Scott, for having directed attention to the 4 importance of this mode of treatment. And a modification of what is \ ordinarily termed "Scott's dressing," will be found a most valuable I remedy for all chronic affections of joints, in the truly indolent stage ; \ more especially for those wherein the disease has not only originated in the synovial apparatus, but is still limited to that tissue. The limb n ^"(? ^^^^^ uniformly supported by a bandage, from its extremity up to ll'o ai ectcid joint, the surface of the swelling is covered by strips of lint, J spread with some gently stimulating ointment—soap cerate with camphor,