GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 502 from water. " A button, a watcli, a book, or a handkerchief, has maiiv a time been the means of preserving life," from the musket bullet in former days. And a succession of such obstacles may occasion a most devious track. The aperture of exit may be found very close to that of entrance; and yet the bullet may have nearly completed the circuit of the body. Or a ball may strike the forehead, and emerge at a point directly opposite, in the occiput; as if it had perforated the cranium in a straight line, while in truth it has never been deeper than the integu- ment. In such cases, the superficial track is marked by a discoloured elevation, sometimes slightly emphysematous. In deeply penetrating '\ wounds, the course may be equally unexpected; bone, muscle, fascia, ij proving the causes of diversion. A ball has entered the breast, and lodged in the scrotum ; a ball may penetrate at the upper part of the breast in fi'ont, and lodge near the spine at a much lower plane. " In ' one instance wbich occurred in a soldier with his arm extended, in tli- act of endeavouring to climb up a scaling ladder, a ball, which entered about the centre of the humerus, passed along the limb, and over the posterior part of the thorax, coursed among the abdominal muscle?, dipped deep through the glutei, and presented on the fore part of thi opposite thigh, about midway down." * As already stated, the nature of the wound depends on the distance i at which the shot has been fired, on the nature of the foreign body, and on the force with which it has come. At a short distance, powder wiU penetrate by its grains, as well as burn by its explosion. At a greater, yet still limited distance, wadding will penetrate, and may inflict a ghastly, lacerated wound; a circumstance often not considered by the inexperienced. Lives have often been lost—and still oftener, seriously endangered—by the reckless discharge, at near distances, of firearm supposed to be harmless because loaded only with powder and wadding. At a short distance, small shot, as in the common fowling-piece, pene- trate in a mass, like a bullet; at a considerable distance, the charge scatters, and inflicts a more extensive but less deadly wound. A bullet, when near, passes tearingly into flesh; when discharged more remotely, yet still moving with great velocity, its wound is smaller and more incised; when of very distant source, a round bullet may bruise muscle and break bone, without penetrating or even wounding the integument. Slugs, and irregular portions of iron, necessarily make more extensive and serious wounds than those inflicted by round buUets. The latter, impinging on bone, are apt to be flattened or otherwise altered in shape; and when so altered, they may either pass onM'ards into flesh, or remain imbedded in bone. On a sharp ridge of bone, a bullet may be bisected; and each half, passing onwards, may perforate; giving rise to two aper- tures of exit. The modern conical bullet, from a rifled bore, seldom lodges in bone ; but, striking with great force, breaks it up into frag- ments, scattering them into the toin flesh. Leaden pellets, and bullets unaltered from their smooth rounded form, may lodge in a fleshy part without creating much disturbance. In such circumstances, immediately after the infliction of the injury, the soft parts surrounding the ball will bo found more or less cou- * Heimeu's Militaiy Surgery, p. 35.