179 SCIREIIUS. overted; tho evorsion complete ; the Lai-dness as that of cartilage ; some- times of a red and angry hne. The surface discloses the morbid strnc- ture, soft, and in process of ulceration; studded at some points, more especially near the margin, with the semblance of granulations already spoken of. The discharge is thin, bloody, and profuse; pos- sessed of an intensely foetid odour, so peculiar as generally to be hold of a pathognomonic character. Pain is burning and constant. There is no power of cleaning this sore ; under every appHcation, it looks foul and loathsome. Sometimes it is covered by a black or tawny slough. Not unfrequently, Fig-7o. a dai'k, bloody oozing takes place, from some part of the ulcer, perhaps on separation of such a slough; sometimes there is smart hemorrhage. One peculiarity of scirrhus and cancer is, that the disease is especially prone to extend by the lymphatics. Sharp, stinging pains are felt in the direction of the main lymphatics and their ganglia; shadows of the coming event. Then hard and tender cords are observed, extending from the tumour on the lymphatic aspect; sometimes with small indura- tions by their side. These cords may stretch, unbroken, to the ganglia —as in the axilla; and there a second tumour, in all respects like to the first, but often of more rapid growth, and more distressful in its symptoms, begins to form. Or this may take place with few or none of these premonitory symptoms ; without cord or kernel in the intervening space. This extension by the lymphatics is due, as already noticed, either to the absorption of a cancerous fluid or cell elements, which being carried along the lymphatics, lodge in the glands, and these esta- blish a cancerous formation, or to the lymphatic vessels becoming diseased, and their elementary structures developing by connective tissue anasto- moses into cancerous formations. Oedema now occurs in the limb, whose lymphatics have been thus obstructed, and the swelling may be great. Pain is constant, severe, and sometimes excruciating. So much so, that often the patient's attention is entirely diverted from the original malady, and fixed on the part which has become so swoln and painful. The cachectic state of system becomes more and more aggravated; sleep is gone; appetite fails ; emaciation is great, and still increasing; the sallow, wan, cadaverous expression of face becomes more marked; the whole frame grows bloodless; a malignant hectic, as it may be termed, is established; and life is gradually exhausted, in much misery. In such cases cancer will very frequently be found developed in internal organs, as the liver and lungs—due it has been supposed to a cancerous absorption through the medium of either the venous or lymphatic systems. In the former case, it is supposed that cancerous developments, forming within the veins connected with a tumour situated externally, are carried hence by the circulation and lodge elsewhere ; or, according to the other hypothesis, a cancerous lymph is poured from the lymphatic into the general circulation to produce a like contamination. The fact, however, that the liver frequently becomes afTected in cases of cancer of the breast, while the lungs, which are more directly in the course of the vascular Fig. 70, Cancerous ulcer from the scalp.