LIGATURE OF TIIK ARTERIES OF THE FOREARM. 897 once to perform that wliicli, wliile much simpler, is equally efTectual— dehgation of tlie humeral a little below its middle—or of the third stage of the axillary, if wo woidd avoid all risks of lailiu'e. Direct measures at the bleeding point should, however, if properly employed, secure the surgeon against resorting to any such unsurgical proceeding. The radial and ulnar arteries are most commonly wounded at the lower part of the forearm ; and should either extremity of the vessel (when cut through), have completely retracted, a Icnowledge of their anatomical relation should enable the surgeon at once to find them. For the radial, an incision is made between the supinator longus and the flexor carpi radialis; and from a little below the middle of the forearm, the artery will be found imaccompanied by any nerve. For the ulnar—rendered more superficial by bending back the hand and fingers—the incision is made between the flexor sublimis and the flexor carpi ulnaris. Near the elbow- joint, the latter vessel can be exposed only through a great thickness of muscular tissue, which should not be cut through, but opened up in the direction of the muscular fibres. In the upper part, the radial artery, curving outward through the triangular hollow below the elbow-joint, comes under cover of the supinator longus, and has the pronator teres to its inner side. The prolongation of the radial, between the metacar- pal bones of the thumb and fore-finger, may be exposed by an incision on the ulnar aspect of the extensor secundi internodii poUicis, before the vessel dips between the origins of the first interosseous to gain the palm and become continuous with the deep palmar arch. When wounded, it may also be secured in the hollow between the tendon of the supinator loiigus, beneath which the artery passes, and the extensors of the pha- langes of the thumb. Wmmds of the Palmar Arch are apt to be troublesome by bleeding, both primarily and secondarily. In recent wounds, all bleeding points should be secured by ligature, if the wound is free enough to admit of this; but to avoid the necessity of dilatation being practised, if important parts would require division, pressure by means of a graduated compress may be preferred. For bleeding occurring after the lapse of some days, the appHcation of firm pressure should be had recourse to j if this fail, then, accordiiag to some, deligation of the humeral should be practised. But—as is infinitely to be preferred to such a proceeding—either a hare- lip pin may be made to transfix the wound and compress the vessel; or a common curved surgical sewing needle, armed mth a thread or wire ligature, may be carried deeply beneath the bleeding point, and tied with such a degree of firmness as to prevent the occurrence of further hemor- rhage—this being effected on either aspect of the wound, should the single application not suflfice to staunch the flow. 3 Af