1179 AFFECTIONS OF MUCOUS MEMBRANE. fact, it is a mere modification. Thus, a scaly patch at the angle of the mouth may have its outline completed by a white patch at the com- missure of the lips. Tliese patches, furthermore, present a more or less regularly roimded, or oval form, and are slightly elevated above the surrounding parts. They feel, when manipulated, firmer than the sur- rounding sound textures. Their surface presents a milky wliite aspect. They occur upon the tongue, fauces, cheeks, and commissure of the lips ; upon the vulva, vagina, cervix uteri (simulating granular cervix), upon the orifice of the anus, the commissure of the eyelids, and tarsal interior aspect of the margins. When they occur in the throat, they give con- siderable pain in deglutition, with uneasiness in the region of the velum palati, posterior nares, and upper part of the pharynx—attended in some cases with a nasal voice, and in children with a " snuffling " breathing and cry. "When the larynx is affected, aphonia is produced ; and when the Eustachian tube is interfered with, there is more or less deafness. The tonsillar surface and crypts sometimes become so turgid and enlarged from this affection, as almost to occupy the isthmus of the fauces. Diagnods.—Sibhens, an affection common in some of the country dis- tricts in Scotland, has rightly or wrongly been supposed to be this con- dylomatous condition of the mouth and fauces. In some instances, the affections described under the name of sibbens have really been of this kind ; in others, they have as unquestionably been nothing but aphthous stomatitis. The peculiarity, however, of those cases which have been denominated sibbens, has been the supposed direct method by which the disease has been communicated j as, e. g., from kissing, or drinking out of the same cup, or from smoking the same pipe. The best narration of cases of this affection under the name of sibbens, is that given by Mr. Wills, a surgeon at Cumnock, in Ayrshire, in the Edinburgh Monthly Journal for April 1844. And an attentive perusal of the cases given by that gentleman will, I thinlc, satisfy the reader that this affection which he describes, was neither more nor less than secondary syphilis, resulting from an indurated chancre which had been communicated in the ordinary way. In the April number of the Edinburgh Journal of Medical Science for 1826, Dr. Hibbert attempts to prove that the yaws of the West Indies and the sibbens of Scotland are the same disease; and both iden- tical with Eramboesia. He also attempts to establish an identity between them and the Morbus Gallicus of the fifteenth century ; which, how- ever, he believes was not syphilis. The great distinction between the yaws and any of the syphilitic affections, is the tendency of the eruptions to terminate in the formation of a peculiar fungating frambcesi-form fungus. From Aphthous Stomatitis the condylomatous affection of the mucous membrane can bo distinguished, by the multiplicity of the smaU patches of the former, by their consisting of a dull white pellicular structure, which peels off and leaves an excoriated tender surface beneath, and by the buccal inflammatory affection, with gastric derangement and foul breath which uniformly accompany the aphthous disease. Mercurial Stomatitis can readily be recognised by the spongy tumid guuLs, loose teeth, and swoln tongue, which, if ulcerated, has the raw