280 SUPPURATION OF BONE. tissue, serum accumulates; occasioning more or less oedema. .Should acute exacerbation occur, the skin too becomes red, somewhat stretched and glistening; while the constitution sympathizes more or less, accord- ing to its susceptibility, and the intensity and duration of the disease. Treatment is as for periostitis ; ar-tively antiphlogistic in the outset, in order, if possible, to arrest the progress at once ; failing in this, then counter-irritant locally, alterative constitutionally. But at all times we must be ready to cease from counter-irritation, and resume antiphlogi sties, should reaccession of acute disease threaten to supervene. In the thoroughly chronic state of enlargement and condensation, no activity of treatment is either required or warranted. Time and rest are mainly trusled to; with general management, and the internal use of the iodide of potassium. Suppuration of Bone. External Abscess. 1. Acute.—We have already seen that in acute periostitis the subjacent bone is early involved iii similar affection; that the rapid cell-multiplication of the periosteum, and superficial lacuna3, and cellular structure of the bone, collects between the periosteum and bone ; and that, if the suppurative crisis be reached, abscess there is inevitable. For such suppuration it is plainly immaterial, whether the process originate in the bone or in the periosteum ; the nutrition of the cell structures of both is soon affected. Pain, is excruciating; distinct rigors usually accompany the act of suj)puration; the swelling, which pre- viously was considerable, increases, and ultimately fluctuation may be discerned in the centre of the dense indurated mass which surrounded the affected part; at an early period the integument reddens and becomes painful, and the subcutaneous tissues are infiltrated by sero-fibrinous inflammatory product. By early and direct incision only, can mischief be arrested and repair satisfactorily obtained. The matter is discharged ; the irritation ceases ; and so soon as the inflammatory process has suffi- ciently subsided, repair begins on the part of both the hard and the soft parts, and advances towards cicatrization. If incision be omitted, matter accumulates; tension increases, so does pain; and then comes aggrava- tion of the original attack. Periosteum is separated from the bone, by lateral extension of the abscess ; more and more weakening vital power in the denuded bone, by interfering with its source of vascular supply. Thus in the bone already inflaming, and with its power of controlling disease impaired—the risk of the destructive results of the inflammatory process is increased, and the area of ulceration or necrosis extended. 2. Chronic.—But the process may be altogether chronic and limited, and yet have reached, to suppuration; and the abscess may be small, and chronic too—enlarging slowly if at all. In such a case we are more chary of the knife. The cell elements by which the nutrition of the bone is carried on have been so gradually and gently modified in their development, that little or no destructive result occurs. Were a direct incision to be made, this might bring a certain amount of acute inflam- matory accession as its direct result; and under this, ulceration or even partial death might be induced. Such risk, therefore, is not to be in-