402 CUllE OF ANEURISM. 2. Exciting causes.—The more prominent of these are violent mus- cular exertion, and mental emotion ; either of Avhich, hut more especially the former, may directly cause the giving way of the coats. Certain occupations favour the disease. Those persons, for example, "who are exposed to intemperance hy their vocation, as well as compelled to undergo heavy lahour which often demands sudden and great exertion, are daily under the operation of both predisposing and exciting causes. And, again, if the elderly and not too temperate patient be by his calling exposed to sudden stretching of a vessel, after prolonged relaxation of it—■ even without hard labour, or great muscular effort, occasional or habitual— aneurismal formation is likely to occur. For instance, the postilion, or any one similarly circumstanced, who has for hours his popliteal aitery much relaxed in a bent position of the limb, may by sudden stretching ; of the member, on resumption of the erect posture, cause partial rupture : of the coats ; and if arterial degeneration be present, as is not unlikely,, aneurism certainly supervenes. In some cases, atheromatous and calcareous degeneration pervades the; whole arterial system ; and tendency to aneurismal formation is in con- - sequence universal. Patients so affected are said to labour under the j Aneurismal Diathesis ; prone not only to aneurism, but to aneurisms; the tumours, in such cases, seldom proving single but gregarious. The existence of such a state ia indicated by a peculiar thrilhng jar of the pulse, as well as a wiry hardness of the vessels, and an obvious cachectic state of the patient. It contra-indicates operative surgical interference with a main trunk communicating with an aneurism ; however favourably adapted the tumour might otherwise seeni for operation. Cure. Towards this end, as already stated, there occur :—deposit of concen-i trio fibrinous layers, with agglutination to the cyst; reaction of the super-: imposed and surrounding parts on the solidified tumour; compression, thereby, of both tumour and artery; probably obstruction of the latte by extension of the coagulum. Absorption of the sohdified tumo gradually advances ; ultimately all traces of the aneurism have almos or wholly disappeared ; and the artery is either permanently obstructe and obliterated, at that point; or—as more rarely happens—it rema" free and pervious, The cure may he either Spontaneous or Surgical 1. The Spontaneous.—The changes formerly described, as aflfectin spontaneous cure, may be induced by various circumstances. 1. " pressure on the cardiac side of the tumour. The artery may be he . compressed by the aneurism itself, it having enlarged chiefl}'' in tha direction, and being bound down on the vessel by fibrous investments. The arterial flow to and into the cyst is consequently moderated, and the occurrence of solidification favoured. Or similar pressure, with similai effects, may be exerted, not by the original tumour, but by the forma tion of another aneurism in the cardiac proximity—an example of tin cure of one disease by the establishment of another. Tims, for ex ample, a subclavian aneurism has been cured by the pressure of a nascent