431 TREATMENT OF ERECTILE TUMOUR. instead of two. Or, if too flat and spread for even this, two harelip pins may bo passed beneath the base, at riglit angles to each otlier, and left there; each extremity of each needle protruding somewhat beyond the integument. Then a stout ligature is thrown around the whole mass, and drawn tightly beneath the j^rotruding ends of the needles. In this way, the noose is made to embrace the whole of the diseased formation. Whichever method is adopted, it may be necessary, in the case of large tumours, to malce a fi-esli application within a few days after the first, in order to expedite sphacelation. When the erectile tumour is of large size, especially when superficially elongated in form, the best procedure is to pass successive portions of a long stout ligature from side to side at intervals of an inch and a half or two inches. The first and last por- tions should be passed beyond the erectile structure. Tlie different nooses, which the needle has carried through, having then been divided, we have an equivalent number of loops formed, including different portions of the structure; and by tying the corresjoonding ends of those loops successively, the whole disease is strangulated. More complicated means of dehgation may be practised. But in ordinary circumstances the simple methods now described will be found quite sufficient. In all cases in which the integument is uninvolved, the use of luiife may happily accompany that of the ligature; the former being employed, in the first place, to re- flect the integument in flaps, and thus to expose the diseased structure naked and defenceless to the noose. In this way, strangulation being ef- fected much more effec- tually, the part is killed at once, and soon sloughs off. The flaps are then reponed; and, in conse- quence, not only is the process of cure by granu- lation abbreviated, but loss of substance also is avoided, and the cicatrix is freed from puckering and deformity :—a point of some considerable im- portance, when it is re- ^'e-189. membered that the most ordinary sites of the tumour are on the head, Fig. 189. Erectile tumour in a common situation. The integument, iminvolved, nas been reflected by flaps. Transflxion is being completed, previous to deligation. ' ^^•'^^gei- ligature, in the act of being pulled through. It fills the aperture of puncture, preventing bleeding ; and besides, bears a stronger strain in the tying.