SUBLUXATION AT THE SHOULDER. 936 Eeduction may take place suddenly, and with a snap; or gradually and without noise. Then the arm is secured to the side, by bandaging, and retained so for a few days. ' Such details as to reduction apply mainly to those cases, in wliicli either ansethesia is not employed, or Avhere the efforts at reduction are made in a dislocation of old standing. In recent cases, with the full effect of chloroform, the muscular frame is so relaxed, that it makes but Httle difference in what direction the extension is made. The great practical difficulty in effecting the reduction of old standing dislocations of the shoulder as compared with the hip joint, is due to the extreme mobility of the scapula, and the consequent difficulty—nay, impossibHity of effecting complete counter-extension. The split cloth, or axillary belt, with the acromial strap, is not satisfactory ; as it either permits the scapula to rotate, or so compresses the muscles around the head of the humerus as positively to oppose our efforts at extension. Hence the much greater success which has been found to attend upon coaptative efforts. The only part of the scapula which admits of being steadied is the acromion, and upon the fixing and steadying of it, as we have indicated, our counter-extension should be directed. It has even been suggested that a steel instrument, provided with two or three sharp hooks, shoidd be passed through the deltoid, and fixed in the under surface of the acro- mion, to which the counter-extension straps, or the weight of an assistant, may be attached during the efforts at reduction. Care must be taken, if this instrument is employed, that the acromion is not torn off by the reductive force which wOl then act chiefly upon it. Efforts at reduction are likely to succeed in any case under seven weeks. In some exceptional instances, reduction has been effected so late as the twelfth week; but after two months this must be considered the exception, not the rule ; and it has been chiefly in such cases that violent and abortive efforts have terminated in fracture of the ribs, and injury to the parts contained in the axilla. When our prudent efforts at reduction fail, the result of continued passive, followed by active movement of the shoulder, is attended by the restoration of such a degree of usefuhiess to the arm as to permit of the patient satisfactorily following the most laborious occupation. Subluxation forwards^ or on the coracoid process, and subluxation upioards against the Acromion, are by some authors admitted as possible displacements ; by others their occurrence is denied, and the changes which have been observed in pathological specimens, and supposed to be the result of subluxation, are by them attributed to disease of the natiu« of chronic rheumatic arthritis of the shoulder-joint and adjoining parts. A displacement takes place in the former direction, when the greater tube- rosity of the humerus is broken off, or when the supra and infra-spinati muscles are torn through; and the dissections and inquiries of ]Mr. J- G. Smith and Mr. Soden seem to indicate, that a rupture of the tendon of the long head of the biceps, or a laceration of the fibrous tissues which complete the bicipital canal, permitting the tendon to escape, will be attended either by a like shift in the head of the bone, or by a displace- ment upwards against the acromion. The symptoms usually described as attending upon the first mentioned form of injury are—slight flattening