1347 CIRCULAR AMPUTATION. close to the retractor, the bone is made bare. Eetractioii is then applied to all the fleshy textures; touches of the blade assisting to expose the bone at a higher point; and, this having been reached, complete isolation of the bone is efl^cted there. The saw is applied, while by the retractor the muscles are protected from injury. Held perpendicularly, it is " grooved" by drawing it lightly from heel to point. By steady sweeps, section is effected; the surgeon, meanwhile, controlling the lower limb with his left hand; making sure that it is not held too high, so as to lock the saw by shutting it up in its own groove ; and taking equal care to prevent its being too much depressed, so as to favour splintering of the bone when the section is nearly completed. During and after the use of the saw, the assistant takes care to apply no traction to the flaps, lest the periosteum be un- necessarily stripped upwards. Should this happen to any considerable extent, necrosis and exfoliation may scarcely fail to ensue. Should any rougliness remain on the end of the bone—either by splintering, or from natural construction—this is to be removed by means of the cutting- pliers. Attention is now immediately directed to the arteries; the largest being the first secured. Each is laid hold of with the artery-forceps, and, by being pulled outwards, is separated from all surrounding tex- tures ; partly to ensure deligation of the arterial coats only ; partly to secure application of the ligature beyond the oblique section of the vessel. By neglect of this, nerve and vein may be unnecessarily injured ; and the ligature's noose, traversing an oblique section, not going beyond it, may leave a part of the arterial mouth still open, and ready to afford a troublesome hemorrhage. So soon as the larger arteries have been secured, the assistant relaxes his pressure above, or altogether removes it. The smaller vessels can be quite commanded by the finger points ; and, were the high pressure continued, venous loss of blood must neces- sarily ensue. Eemoval of the pressure, above, is usually sujBScient to arrest the venous flow. But, should this continue, direct pressure is made ; either by the finger applied to the venous orifices, or by shut- ting the flaps and pressing them firmly together, for a short time. Bleeding having been satisfactorily arrested, the soft parts are allowed to faU forwards, the ligatures are carefully kept hanging out, and the cut edges of the skin are arranged so as to make the line of union rectilinear, in either a transverse or perpendicular direction. A sufficient number of silver-wire sutures are then introduced, so as to maintain accurate appo- sition ; without, however, interfering with the escape of blood, serum, and fibrinous product, which, by collecting within, would disturb the union of the stump. The stump so formed may then be dressed with pads of dry lint, adjusted on each side of the line of incision so as still further to prevent any fluid collecting within; and a bandage is applied so as to support and compress the cut surfaces into juxtaposition. By some, moist applications are preferred, by means of a piece of wet lint placed on the line of wound. The patient is at once removed to bed; and an opiate having been administered, he is kept quiet with the view of ob- taining sleep. An assistant should generally be left in charge lest after- bleeding come on, so as to be able to employ the necessary measures for