TREATMENT OF TETANUS.' 514 calomel, occupying little bulk, may he got over without mucli difficulty; and may bo repeated, till the bowels respond freely to their use. When once, however, the bowels have been thoroughly unloaded, and the noxious accumulation cleared away, all purgatives are to be abstained from. Besides exhausting strength, their irritation can only do harm ; and their place will be well supplied by enemata, sometimes bland and nutritive, sometimes stimulating, and more particularly terebintliinate. Purgation over, the attention is naturally directed to the most powei-ful of the sedative remedies ; and of these the disease generates a remarkable tolerance. Opium has been given in large quantity; but in the solid form it proves comparatively inert; lodging, little altered, in the stomach —the function of digestion being probably much in abeyance. Lately r| it has been proposed to adininister it in the form of fume, k la Chinois; an expedient not irrational, and worthy of trial. Belladonna has been] given in large doses ; one, two, three, or even four grains of the extract! every two hours ; and frictions, with the tincture, over the affected J parts, sometimes have seemed to alford relief. But this and all other: medicines, iu this disease, should be given in the fluid form, in order toij favour their activity as far as possible ; and the mode of- administrationii may be either by the mouth, or injected beneath the skin. The Cannabis^ indica has, in warm climates, greatly alleviated the symptoms; and, some cases, seems to have contributed powerfully towards cure. In thiaj country, its success has not hitherto been so great; and yet such as fullj to warrant further trial. My own experience speaks highly in its favouTjj It is given in doses of thirty droj^s of the tincture; repeated every hal:! hour, hour, or two hours; the object being to produce and mainta gentle narcotism. Tobacco is a most powerful sedative, administered in the form o(j enema; a drachm to the pound of water, and the half given at a time: with repetition according as circumstances may demand. Let it neve be forgotten, however, that this remedy may readily become a formidabl poison ; and that large doses, or reckless repetition of even small qua titles, may whoUy prostrate the powers of life, and carry olf the patiend Each dose must be cautiously given, and its effects carefully watchec and while with the tobacco we endeavour to allay nervous exciteme and muscular spasm, with nutriment and stimuli we sustain the powei of life ; finding this combination of a sedative with stimulus not oi expedient but essential. The warm bath has a relaxing effect on muscular system ; and this is much enhanced by medication of the wat with antimony ; from two to six drachms of the tartrate of antiino!? being dissolved in an ordinary bath. The remedy, however, reqi] care, like the tobacco ; lest it prove excessive. The Wourali poison is esteemed the most direct, powerful, and sim| of sedatives ; an animal poisoned by it " sinks from existence in t.'j most placid swoon." The nervous system is chiefly acted on; and, apparent death, from cessation of nervous function, the heart's action mi be continued for some time. When no large quantity of the poison Ij been administered, artificial respiration—maintaining the heart's actionf will sustain life ; until the poisoniug influence has passed away, aud 11 nervous system has rallied from its temporary paralysis. At one timej