OSTEOOEPHALOMA. 329 tain points—and those are \isiially towards the external surface—it be- comes first tliin, and pliable as parchment, and then entirely membranous. Even the membrane, after a time, gives way. And the superimposed soft parts, too, may tighten, inflame, and ulcerate, thus exposing the true structure of the morbid growth. But no sprouting fungus results, no hemorrhage, no foetid ichorous discharge. The discharge is purulent and moderate ; the sore is simple; and even cicatrization may be effected. Growth is slow. Many months may have elapsed, and the tumour may still be no larger than an orange. Pain can hardly be said to attend ; yet there is more inconvenience and discomfort felt, in and around the part, than in the simpler and more tardy formations of exostosis and osteoma. Pressure does not increase pain materially, if at alL When made firmly, a craclding sensation is often experienced; partly from dis- placement of the parchment-like portions of the osseous shell, partly from interference with the osseous skeleton of the mass. The sensation of firmness, imparted to the touch, is less than that of exostosis or osteoma; much greater than that of osteocephaloma. There is no elasticity; and the presence of fluid accumulation is not simulated. There is little or no constitutional disorder ; unless important function be interrupted by the bulk and position of the tumour. Often the patient seems to be, in all other respects, of even robust health. This tumour seldom appears before adult age. It is originally simple, and may long remain so ; but nevertheless it may degenerate from even slight causes, local or constitutional. Eapid growth, great pain, open condition, fungous protrusion, involvement of surrounding parts, and marked constitutional cachexy, may supervene after the infliction of but a trifling injury. Early removal, therefore, by excision or amputation, is in the highest degree expedient; while yet the tumour is small, and the wound may be slight and safe; while yet the structure and tendency are simple, and immunity from return may be secured. When a long bone is affected by osteosarcoma, in its shaft, as but seldom happens, fracture at that point is not unlikely. After such a casualty, amputation is imperative. There is no chance of reunion ; but, instead, rapid enlargement, with perhaps avowed malignancy of the tumour. It will be observed that under the term Osteosarcoma are included aU the soHd non-malignant tumours of bone—excepting exostosis, osteoma, and enchondroma. This may be inexact and unscientific ; but it is of practical value, as tending to bring out the contrast between such formations and those which follow—the truly malignant. Osteocephaloma. This term denotes the medullary formation as it occurs in bone; a most malignant and intractable tumour; and, unfortunately, not of rare occurrence. When osteosarcoma degenerates, it is to assume the characters of this. Then, instead of fleshy interstitial substance, of a simple kind, there is medullary change ; commencing usually at a central part. The osseous skeleton for a time remains ; but sooner or later it disappears, and its place is occupied by a soft brain-like mass. The ex-