OPACITIES OF THE CORNEA. G88 Fig. 251. and in tliis abnormal position it may become adherent. In either ca^i. the pupil will be deformed; and vision may be seriously impaired na\ may bo completely intercepted, by the wliole margin of the pupil beii/ implicated in tlie prolapse of the iris. The indications of cure are, t restore the iris to its normal position, and to hasten cicatrization of tlj. aperture. In recent cases, we may attempt to oli tain recession of the protrusion ; not by mechanic; efforts to push it in at the opening, but by yln, ing the patient on his back, and applying atii pine, while support is afforded by means of tli pad of cotton. When the protrusion remains, tli displaced portion of the iris contracts permanej) adliesions with the cornea. Sometimes, howevt-i cicatrization goes on but slowly, the iris retaiij its normal colour and fibrous aspect, and admits of a constant drainiu: away of the aqueous humour; then cicatrization of the sore will 1, much expedited by touching the black elevation, from time to time, witi nitrate of silver, till an opaque white cicatrix, and a normal anterio. chamber, indicate that the ulcer is completely healed. Opacities of the Cornea. These may be interstitial or superficial—due to changes in structur produced by inflammatory product, abscess, or ulceration of the corn According to their intensity they have received the names of Ne^ Albugo, and Leucoma. By some, however, these terms have b employed to indicate the degree of the process producing, or the dep of tissue implicated in, the disease;—Nebula occurring when the flammatory change has affected only the superficial structure; Albug and Leucoma resulting from the cicatrization of ulcers, which penet more or less deeply through its textures. The superficial form of opaci is gradually shaded off into the surrounding healthy corneal tissue, is easily distinguished from a deep cicatrix, which has a sharp out' and weU-defined margin. In some of the deeper cicatrices a black sp exists in the otherwise white opacity;—in such cases the ulcer has pe forated, 2^'>'olapsus iridis has occurred, and that part of the iris whi protruded is now imj)licated in the cicatrix. In j)ractice, it is of importance to distinguish these permanent opacities, wliich are due t deterioration of tissue, from the hazy conditions which give to the com the appearance of steamed glass, and are characteristic of progressi keratitis. In the former, all remedies, except in very young childrer are useless ; in the latter, approjDriate treatment may check the diseas and admit of the cornea regaining its normal transparency. The recen occurrence of the symptoms, the presence of the vascular zone of th sclerotic, and more or less pain or irritability, characteristic of the M should serve to indicate that the inflammatory process is still in progres and lead the practitioner to delay his prognosis as to how much of th opacity will be permanent, and how much is amenable to treatment, uut he lias subdued the inflammatory process which has produced tlies Fig. 251. Myocephalon.