TREATMENT OF STRICTURE. 1219 chancre situated at the orifice of the urethra. Altliough by probes, or short bougies, occasionally introduced, a cure by dilatation may some- times be procured in tlie ordinary way, it is usually more expeditious and satisfactory to resort to incision, A narrow probe-pointed bistoury is introduced; and, by its edge, the contracted part is divided down- wards. A Bowman's probe for the lachrymal canal, or a stricture-probe, grooved upon the lower surface, having been passed, a sharp-pointed curved bistoury, or a tenotomy knife, is employed to effect division of the constricted portion. A full-sized bougie is passed immediately after- wards, and repeated daily; a less interval than usual sufficing here, in consequence of there being less irritability than in tlie deeper-seated portions of the canal Sometimes, it may be foimd necessary to lay the contracted part entirely open by incision, introducing tlie bougie after- wards thi'ough the woimd ; and seeking for a cure of the stricture, at the cost of establishing a slightly imperfect state of the urethra, similar to the congenital malformation termed Hypospadias. Analogous to internal section of the canal, by cutting instruments passed along the constricted part, but attended with less extensive injury —calculated to induce profuse hemorrhage, or risk the occurrence of urinary extravasation—^various plans have been devised for lacerating or splitting up the contracted portion of the canal. The great obstacle to effecting this satisfactorily, must ever be the difficulty of introducing an instrument which combines at once slenderness with strength. Eapid, or forcible dilatation of the canal, by the passage in immediate succession of one bougie after another, has been long loiown as a means by which this might be effected. The difficulty, however, of introducing the common bougie in gradually increasing size, through a tight stricture, without failure, has been so well recognised, that conical or tapering instruments, of four or five different sizes, shaped like a bougie, and the smaller ones termi- nating in a probe-point, have been recommended. By others, a steel instrument, with a small extremity and tapering shaft, and with a pro- jecting wedge-shaped blunted flange, has been recommended (Marshall). By others, a guiding catheter, and different sizes of flexible tubes passed one after the other, have been recommended (Wakley). While others employ instruments formed of expanding blades, acted on either by means of a screw (Perreve), or by conical tubes sliding on a guiding rod (Holt), in order to effect the longitudinal splitting up of the constricted portion of the canal. When this has been effected—under chloroform—a catheter is passed and retained for some days. The great objection to these in- struments is, that their large size requires a stricture to be comparatively very slight in degree, or already well dilated before they can be employed. It is easy to understand how spontaneous alleviation of stricture may occur ; either by absorption, or by ulceration. But it is probable that such an occurrence is actually very rare ; and, certainly, it is not to be trusted to in practice. Belief by the latter mode, indeed, is scarcely de- sirable ; inasmuch as the cicatrix of the ulcer is likely to reproduce con- traction, perhaps in an aggravated form. For a Hke reason, the caustic bougie has fallen into comparative desuetude. To prove successful as an escharotic, in clearing away ob- stniction, the mucous membrane must first be sacrificed ; and though, for