CHAPTER XXIX. OPERATIONS. It is a favoiuite plirase by whicli operations are stigmatized as the " opprobria of surgery." Nothing can be more ainjust. Safely and ex- peditiously to remove parts which accident has rendered totally useless, and which would prove highly injurious if longer attached to the body; to take away diseased formations, or other noxious substances, and, at the expense of suffering, comparatively brief and shght, to dispel torture which had rendered existence a burden for previous weeks, months, and years; to accomplish such results, is alike creditable to the operator and beneficial to the patient. It is not the operation—^but the operation unseasonably, unnecessarily, unskilfully performed—that brings disgrace; and to refrain from operating when we are plainly and peremptorily called upon to do so, would involve not only opprobrium to surgery, but guilt and shame to the sm-geon. In former times, it is true, operations were the disgrace of our art. Kjnives, hot irons, screws, files, gimlets, gouges, hammers, and saws, were employed with cruel and ignorant recklessness. Of late years, however, every good surgeon has sought not only to simplify and diminish the number of instruments, but also to use them as seldom as possible. He does not hesitate to employ them, when his knowledge and experience intimate that they have be- come indispensable ; on the contrary, he will then probably be urgent in their application, knowing that an early wound may save much after- suffering. But, in the first place, he wiU exert all his skill and all his powers, by milder measures, so to counteract injury and restrain disease, as to supersede the necessity for operating. To effect this, is doubt- less the true triumph of his profession; and to this triumph he often attains. But he must be Utopian indeed who can seriously hope that the period will ever arrive, when operations shall have altogether ceased to be required. Modern surgery, accordingly, while anxious to limit the necessities for operation, is not the less aware of its importance as a means of cure; and has not only directed attention towards its improve- ment, but also extended its application, and with the happiest result, to diseases formerly without remedy. Many patients, for example, are now by the knife freed from morbid growths and natural deficiencies, who were formerly left the hopeless prey of deformity and disease. A prominent cause of modern improvement in the art of operating, 18 an increased simplicity of the instruments, their arrangement, and use. On this subject, one who was pre-eminently distinguished among the operators of the present day, observes : * " Our armamentaria should contam simple and efficient instruments only; the springs, grooves, * LiSTON, Operative Siu-gery.