WOUNDS OF THE EYEBALL. 724 arrested, by counter-irritatiou and constitutional treatment. Should the affection, however, continue to progress, and caiise sympathetic irrita- tion in the other eye, then extirpation of the globe should at once be practised. Synchysis Oculi.—The term Synchysis denotes a deficiency, andi unnatural fluidity of the vitreous humour. When only commencing,] the normal firmness of the eyeball is wanting, and the pressure of thei recti muscles gives the globe a quadrilateral form, observed when thei lids are fully opened. When more advanced, the eye is slirunk andi flaccid; the iris is tremulous; the pupil is motionless, and vision igj either impaired or lost. Not unfrequently the lens becomes opaque,i the pupil may be occluded, and the iris made tense. The disease isj usually an advanced result of inflammatory change of the glaucomatot] kind, and admits of no treatment, except extirpation of the eyeba should pain or sympathetic irritation occur. Wounds of the Eyeball. These may be incised, punctured, contused, lacerated, and gunshot and are very common causes of acute ophthalmitis. Accordingly, th( treatment must be carefully conducted in order to avert disastrous resull In most cases, rest of the globe and lids—secured by a pad of cotton W( or lint, soaked in a weak solution of extract of beUadonna, and retained a bandage—with restriction of diet, rest in the recumbent posture, exclusion of bright light, is all that is required. K foreign lodge in the interior of the eye, antiphlogistics will avail but littl so long as the foreign body remains; the globe will suppurate, h and coUapse. It is an important indication, therefore, as soon possible to ascertain the presence and site of a foreign body, and effect its removal. But nearly the same difficulty is encountered as the case of foreign bodies lodged in the brain. It is difiicult to asce: either the site or presence of the foreign matter; and, even when th are plain, it is often very difiicult to take it away, without most serioi injury to the organ. WTien it occupies the anterior chamber, or can h seen when the pupil is dilated in the posterior chamber, or even lodg( in the lens, section of the cornea, made in such a position as to enabl the foreign body to be seized with forceps, is the proper treatment; an the incision may be made either with a linear-extraction or an iris-knift Where a puncture in the cornea still exists, and the aqueous humoii has escaped, if we dilate the pupil, and introduce the blunt cornea spue so as to steady the foreign body against the inner surface of th cornea, an opening can be made through which the former can easily t removed, without waiting for the healing of the wound, and the repi^ duction of the aqueous humour. When the foreign body is lodged ilj the lens, a linear extraction should be jjerformed. Sometimes even^ foreign body may be extracted from the vitreous humour, when t position can be seen through the dilated pupil. For this purpose, a opening in the sclerotic must be made, through which the canula force] are introduced; performing the operation with the aid of the ophtha moscope. In regard to prognosis, it is import^int to bear in mw(^