PURULENT OPHTHALMIA, 677 circmnorbital pain indicates the complication of inflammatory progress in the deeper textures of tlie eyeball. Usually local applications are alone requii-ed; and of these nitrate of silver is nnequallcd in efficacy. By some this is applied by everting the lids, and pencilling the solid caustic over the villous congested surflice; using a stream of tepid water to wash a^vay the purulent matter before the application, and to remove the redundaut caustic after it has been employed. This, however, except in experienced hands, is apt to do more than is desired. Instead, a solution of two, three, or four grains to the ounce of distilled water should be dropped upon the surface of the globe, after the purulent secretion has been carefully removed by washing. This application, when the secretion is very copious, may be made every three or four hours during the day ; but as it requires the assistance of some one accustomed to open the Hds and apply it, some astringent lotion may be used instead. This should be applied with a bit of rag, or even syringed within the lids—if the swelKug renders this necessary. The astringents best suited for the purpose are alum or tannin, of the strength of two or three grains to the ounce, combined with belladonna, atropine, or morphia in olution, as the sensations of the patient may direct. In addition to his, opiates at night, good wholesome food, quinine and iron, and ulti- ately even stimulants, will often be found necessar3^ In cases where he chemosis is well marked, Mr. Tyrell recommended the use of incisions n the ocular conjunctiva, made in a direction radiating from the cornea, IS a centre; his object l^eing to relieve tension and the strangulation f the cornea, which he presumed was occasioned by the overlapping onjunctiva. The tension will be very much more satisfactorily relieved y chpping off a few of the most prominent elevations of the tumid mem- rane; thus affording a free escape for the serum collected in the meshes f the submucous tissue, and hkewise enabling the surgeon to recognise e line of ulceration corresponding to the margin of the cornea. To this, hether the chemosed conjunctiva is divided or not, nitrate of silver ould be applied by means of a fine probe, coated at the point, which ay be rapidly run round the line of ulceration, while the lids are ept open by the fingers, or by a spring speculum. Again, when the iction of the lids against the cornea tends still more to increase its k of destruction, very great relief will be afforded by puncturing the rnea in the line of ulceration, so as to evacuate the aqueous humour, liis should always be done, when the ulcer is ready to perforate, and the inned inner layer of its structure bulges outwards; for if it is not done en, prolapse of the iris, engagement of it in the ulcer, and adhesion of there with displacement of the pupil, are almost certain to ensue when opening spontaneously forms. Another fact, too, should be borne in nd, as indicating the propriety of such operative puncture j that, when e ulcer penetrates, the escape of the aqueous humour is generally at- nded by a complete relief from pain, and speedy amendment in all e symptoms. Uniformly has the same favourable residt been found follow the employment of operative puncture in these cases, especially en employed early, before the cornea has shewn any trace of haze ; d it may .l)c practised, therefore, with every confidence—all the more It checks the spread of ulceration, if commencing, and favours the