TllACITEOTOMY. 884 looked. The windpipe should on no account he opened in tracheotouiy, until the surface lias heen thorouglily clearod, and its rings recognized either by touch or siglit. The blood is tlicn carefully sponged away ; the wound is held open by an assistant with blunt hooks ; and the patient, if adult and conscious, is directed to swallow saliva. While the ^vindpipe is ren- dered tense and elevated in the act of deglutition, the knife is made to penetrate at the lower part of the wound, with its back to the sternum ; and, by a sawing movement of tlae instrument upwards, the necessary extent of tracheal wound is completed; in the low operation, the istlimus of the thyroid gland being pushed upwards out of harm's way, by the finger, if need be. If operation have been undertaken on account of the lodgment of a foreign body, no tube is necessary. The wound having been made, the foreign substance, if loose, will be expelled at once ; if f not, it is to be sought for by probe and forceps, as formerly stated. In i the case of disease, it is our object to establish a constant and sufficient t aperture for respiration, at the site of the wound; accordingly, a curved silver canula is introduced; and this is retained by tapes passing from a ring on each side of the canula, to be secured behind the neck. The canula is of sufficient size to atone, completely, for the temporarily oc- cluded rima; varying, consequently, according to age ; and, generally, of not much less diameter than the trachea which receives it. Yet i should not be so large as to press harshly on the lining membrane of th passage, lest ulceration be induced. The wound should be of size suffi- cient to receive the canula, without force, and yet not too freely; the cut margins should be compressed by the canula, internal escape of blood being so prevented ; and this object is further contributed to by the conical form of the instrument. To facilitate introduction, the tube may be provided with a plug, the bulbous end projecting—as in the vaginal speculum ; or the canula may be sloped away diagonally, so as to make it unequally truncated, and thus more easy of entrance. By some, the blunt hooks which have hitherto been employed to keep the edg of the wound apart, are introduced into the tracheal aperture, and there used to hook the edges of the aperture to either side, thus aifording a patulous opening for the tube. By others, a broad director is employed for the purpose of guiding the tube's introduction. The circumstance of the canula's introduction being itself an efficien means of checking the venous bleeding, when copious, by the free resjri' ration relieving the engorgement of the right side of the heart, makes ii prudent to proceed to open the windpipe without waiting for entire ces sation of bleeding ; no valuable time should therefore be lost in trying if stem venous hemorrhage ; main jets of arterial blood, if any, ha^ang beei secured, the tracheal wound is at once made, and the tube as speedih introduced. At iirst the presence of the foreign body, and of the smah quantity of blood which has necessarily entered along with it, is rarxc resented ; a violent fit of spasmodic cough, threatening suffocation, en sues ; but the blood having been thrown back, through the tube, this fi of irritation passes off, and comparatively calm respiration is speedil established through the artificial opening. When the tube has bee- satisfactorily lodged, and the access of violent cough attended by expc'i toration of blood, mixed with mucus, has ceased, the patient is laid o