CICATRIZATION. 80 step towards repair is subsidence from the suppurative crisis. Suppura- tion, no doubt, continues, but with this difference; that whereas previously all the new formation passed off in tlie form of pus, now only a part is so disposed of; a plastic portion remains incorporated with and superadded to the original secreting tissue, in the form of granula- tions—red, fleshy, vascular, minute conical eminences—and the pus serves to invest these as a protective covering. The new matter, having undergone partial absorption, then assumes the characters of fibro-plastic tissue, and becomes denser, tougher, and thoroughly vascularised. After a time, considerable contraction of the granulating surface takes place, by reason of such condensation. The edges of the wound, originally separated by theu* own elasticity and the progress of inflam- matory change, are again approximated. The granulations and the ad- jacent integumental surface come to be continuous ; the latter passing smoothly into the former, which are still covered with only their oym transient and fluid secretion. The permanent closing in of the granu- lating surface has still to be effected by cicatricial transformation of the cells into white fibrous tissue. Tliis last part of the process of cure is termed Ciccdrization. Cicatrization is in truth the process whereby granulations, when on a level with the surrounding original skin, are permanently converted into a new protective covering, resembhng the cuticle m function. The commencement of this process of skinning over is observed at the peri- phery of the granulated space, where a thin whitish-blue pellicle is seen stretching from the original skin, and gradually overspreading the raw surface; thinnest and most transparent at the margin, where of recent formation ; thicker and more opaque where in contact and continuous with the healthy skin around. The space to be invested is being gra- dually diminished, not merely by advance of the cicatricial pellicle but by actual diminution of the space itself; and this is caused by gradual condensation, decrease, and contraction of the newly formed substance. It was by the formation of this that continuity of texture was restored; and it is very plain that, this restored continuity remaining unbroken, diminution in the bulk of the connecting medium cannot fail to bring the original parts into nearer apposition. But it is not to be supposed that, uniformly, this diminution of bulk in the new matter continues until all has been removed, and that consequently the breach becomes permanently closed merely by puckering together of the old textures. This may happen in simple wounds which heal by granulation, when there has been no considerable loss of substance, or when the original tissues are lax and admit of being drawn together j while in all cases gradual extension of the cutaneous tissues in the neighbourhood, and even to a considerable distance, produced by the powerful tendency to contract centripetally possessed by all cicatrices, materially and most efficiently assists in the work of reparation. In all ulcerations, however, where loss of substance is considerable, and where it is situated upon a dense unyielding surface, with condensation of the surrounding tissues — the extent and thickness of the new formation Avill be easily recognised, constituting, as it does, a complete but less satisfactory means of effect- ing permanent closure of the gap.