SUPPURATION. 31 analogous to tho natural decay of tissue, on subsidence of tlio iniiamma- tory process; or—destructively—by a secondary accession of tlie same process, accompanied by either softening, or suppuration, and ulceration. That inflammatory product is always the fittest for organization, which takes place under the shghtest forms of the inflammatory process. By it wounds unite, bones knit, and arteries are consolidated. These salutary constructive changes are wholly incompatible Avith the presence of the third stcige of the inflammatory process ; and are often but ill performed after its subsidence. III. —Suppuration. Pus is a yellowish-white, or greenish, opaque liquid ; resembling, cream in consistence and general appearance; varying in specific gravity from 1030 to 1040; and with scarcely any peculiarity of odour, when pure and recent. It separates partially, on standing, into a clear fluid—very nearly identical, in its chemical and other properties, with the serum of the blood—and into a sediment, which is shewn by microscopic exami- nation to consist of peculiar corpuscles, usually with a greater or less quantity of finely molecular and granular matter. The corpuscles of pus are generally spherical, varying a good deal in size, but most frequently about ^ soo m.ch. in diameter. They have much resemblance, in size and general appearance, to mucus glo- bules or to the white or colourless corpuscles of the blood—indeed, some observers declare them to be identical. Their cell-wall is some- what opaque, but soluble to a great extent in dilute acids, which reveal a single, double, or treble nucleus. In the partition of the nucleus, and in the comparative smallness of its size, pus corpuscles differ from the majo- rity of cells found in the fibrinous products of the inflammatory process ; these latter being mostly either non-nucleated or single- nucleated, and the nuclei considerably larger than those of pus corpuscles. In fibrin, con- taining plastic cell-formations, also, the cells are in much smaller numbers than in pus ; and the connecting filamentous element which exists in the former is absent in the latter. In many cases, however, we can trace the one ^'^'~ jg condition passing into the other. Pus is not in itself corrosive as the ancients imagined, but bland and protective. The cell structm-es on the surface of tender granulations, for instance, are transformed into it; aff'ording thdm protection, and that effectually, until the superficial layer become converted into fully formed fibro-plastic tissue, constituting a cicatrix. But when " cribbed, cabin'd, and confined," in the interior of a part acutely inflaming, it invariably induces increased irritation, and is accompanied with breaking up of those textures from the connective tissue of which it was originally formed. Fig. 1.3, Corpu-gcles in pus, a, Corpuscles in gi-ey hepatization of tho hmgs ; h, the same after the addition of acetic acid ; c, coi-puscles in pus, from a subcutaneous ab- scess ; d, the same, after the addition of acetic acid.—Bennett.