874 CROUP. weary watch, been so sore a trial to his anxious friends. In undertaking the operation, the surgeon should satisfy himself as to the condition of the chest; seeing tliat the want of expansion acts equally on both sides, that the respiratory murmur—not the lioarse and shrill rhonchus commu- nicated from the larynx and consonating through the bronclii of the lung, but of the air entering both lungs—can be heard, and that there is no dulness on percussion at either base. His duty then is plain. He should perform tracheotomy as speedily as possible. The operation may not save his patient, or the case may not be one of true croup, but certainly nothing else will help the sufferer, whether the case be croup or not. The question still remains, Where should the operation be performed 1 If laryngotomy be chosen, we open the air-tube certainly above the seat of the membranous formation. The same objection holds good in regard to the supra-thyroid operation, by which we open the trachea. The mem- brane, probably, may extend lower down; though, as Home, one of the first and best writers on this affection, has remarked, " The place first and most particularly affected is the upper part of the trachea, about an inch below the glottis." We, therefore, prefer the deeper and more difficult operation of opening the trachea immediately above the sternal notch, and below the isthmus of the thyroid gland. Tlie after treatment of these cases in children of tender age constitutes one of the most im- portant elements in the success of this operation. The duties of the nurse or attendant should consist in watching the breathing, keeping the Fig. 298 tube clear, maintaining an equable warmth and moisture in the atmos- phere of the apartment, and in stimulating the system, or depressuig inflammatory reaction in the pulmonary organs, as the pulse and aspect of the patient seem to indicate.* * Trousseau and Bretonneau warmly advocate the performance of tracheotomy m croup, and support their doctrine by an array of successful cases (Brit, and For. Kev., No. 23, p. 110). On this point, however, the question must always obtrude itself—Were these cases all examples of tine croup ? For it is well known how loosely medical nomenclature is often applied; and as, by some, all sores on' the peius M-e Fig. 298. End of the sporige-prol.antr, for the larynx ; the sponge always carefully aifixed to whalebone not made brittle by the caustic.