TREATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. 471 baiulago, tlicy may support tlio whole wound, and prevent falling away of the cut surfoces in the deep as well as in the superlicial portion; this being most especially necessary in large flap wounds, as after amputa- tion. And this indication may be further fulfilled, while at the same time the main straps are rendered more secure, by one or two slips being placed round the limb, so as to overlap the extremities of the former. Interstices should be left between each of these j in order to permit free escape of the slight serous discharge, which oozes out during the process of adliesion. And, if sutures have been employed, these are left uncovered also; in order to facilitate their subsequent removal. "When, after some hours, the plaster has become consolidated, the sutures may in some cases be dispensed with; in whole, or in part. If there have been a laxity of integument, with facility of apposition, they may be all gently rejnoved by section and withdrawal of each noose; but if there have been, and still is, some straining on the part, removal of the sutures should as yet be but partial, or altogether deferred. It being at all times borne in mind, however, that the sooner they are taken away— without displacement of the wound—the more likely is adhesion. When the process advances favourably under this treatment—as it will do in the majority of cases in which it can reasonably be expected— no other applications are required. All that is necessary has already been done; the wound is approximated, and retained so, under favour- able circumstances ; and further covering of it would only tend to thwart the occurrence which it is our wish to promote. All pledgets, cloths, and bandages, are therefore not to be thought of. It is sufficient to wipe away, as often as is necessary, the fluid which may exude from the dependent part of the wound. Thus, attention to cleanliness becomes the principal duty of the dresser in the after part of the cure; and, to facihtate the performance of this duty, the wounded part when extensive, as after amputation, is placed on a pillow covered with a sufficient portion of oiled cloth, from which the secretion that trickles down can be wiped away without any soiHng of the bed linen. It is scarcely necessary to add, that there should be no washing or scrubbing, of either the wound or its immediate neighbourhood. In one class of cases, lint compresses with bandaging may be neces- sary at the time of coaptation; namely, those in which it is not in our power to ensure otherwise the accurate adjustment of the deep wound— as after some amputations and dissections of tumours. When their work IS done, however, in keeping the flaps together and preventing accumu- lation of blood, the sooner they are removed the better. In sliglit and superficial wounds, collodion is an excellent means of retention; applied either continuously over the part, so as to make one unbroken covering; or, what is better, put on in strips across, like plaster, by means of a stroma of lint. Towards the end of the cure it often happens, in largo wounds, that more or less edematous swelling takes places in the edges and the sur- rounding parts; after amputation, for example, this is by no means an unfrequcnt occurrence. To remove this, a plain bandage is necessary; iglitly and uniforndy applied, so as merely to support the parts; favour- ing absorption and venous return, without occasioning pressure or irrita-