OVARIOTOMY. 1001 to the bowels beneath ; and this is effected by passing the needle close to the peritoneal surface of the wound. The dressing of the pedicle and wound should consist of lint, soaked in oil, and covered with a large pad of cotton wadding, supported by a firmly-pinned binder. The damp may be left on till it spontaneously drops off; but it is better to remove it at the end of the third day, two or three long needles having been employed to transfix the pedicle and the cutaneous tissues on either side, so as to prevent its slipping back within the cavity of the abdomen. Should symptoms of peritonitis set in, the best application consists of a large warm linseed-meal poultice, renewed from time to time ; and when distension of the abdomen from fluid occurs, the lower part of the wound should be carefully opened to afford it an escape. Sometimes a limited abscess forms in the pelvis, and points towards the vagina, where it shoidd be opened. In conducting the first step of the operation, the plan proposed I by Dr. Frederick Bird, to avoid mischances, may be resorted to— 1 namely, to make at first only a small wound into the peritoneum, and to explore the tumour with the finger and probe ; so ascertaining, to some extent at least, the feasibility of completing the operation before the patient is compromised by further proceedings. Great hostility i to all such operations is still declared by a large body of the profes- sion. There are many cases, however, which may certainly render a duly-conducted attempt quite warrantable ; when the tumour is non- malignant, single, movable, and connected with a narrow pedicle ; when the patient is apparently free from other disease; when the effects of this tumour are such as to tlireaten death by exhaustion at no distant period, unless relief be obtained ; when the ordinary palliative treatment, after due persistence, has failed to give relief; and when the patient, hav- ing been made fully aware of the risk, is resolved and wishful to undergo the radical cure. Modern experience has certainly demonstrated, that moderately free incision of the abdomen, with exposure and manipu- lation of the peritoneum, is a less hazardous procedure than was gener- ally supposed. But there are extreme dangers necessarily attendant upon this operation—from its site and its nature—from the danger of the clamp slipping, or the wound in the parietes partially opening, in con- sequence of distension of the bowels or of efforts in coughing—and from the risk of strangulation of a portion of bowel, either in the wound or by the contraction of bands of lymph. And, besides, the following un- avoidable difficulties at present stand in the way of a general recommen- dation of the procedure; namely, the confessed difficulty of diagnosis —as to the existence of extensive adhesions, as to the presence of malignant disease in the tumour or in the pedicle, and as to the large size and shortness of the pedicle rendering the use of the clamp almost impossible. Sometimes cure is attempted by a minor proceeding; malcing an opening in the abdominal parietes, only a few inches in length; punc- turmg the larger cysts, and drawing out the tumour as the contents escape ; and then cutting off the attachment, after the application of the clamp. Such an operation, however, has not been found more successful than the more direct and open one ; and certainly it is not moi-e easy