633 LODGMENT OF FOREIGN BODIES. cated the entrance of a fragment of a ball liardly larger than an ordi- nary leaden pellet, but which had given rise to intracranial suppura- tion. The more smalhicss of aperture in the cranium must not be retarded as a sure proof that the bullet has not lodged; for, in the young more especially, the inherent elasticity of the osseous tissue may )e so great as to diminish the space of entrance-wound very consider- ibly. They may lodge external to the membranes, or wound the brain, n either case, they may lie close to the aperture of entrance, or they aiay become arrested at some distance from that point. The mere 'act that a foreign body has penetrated to some distance from the open- ng in the skull, will not always serve to indicate that perforation of iie dura mater has occurred. Larrey, for example, narrates two iu- ances in which balls had passed to some distance from the seat fracture, coursing along inside the cranial vault, and separating the .ura mater from the bone; which separation he, by exploration, traced the opposite diameter of the cranial circle.* The contusion and aceratioa of the cerebral tissue and its investments, consequent on gun- lot wounds, render a certain amount of inflammatory accession inevi- able; and the lodgment of foreign matter determines the amount and atensity of this to be great and hazardous. Further; foreign substances, lenetrating deeply, are not unlikely to interfere with those portions of he organ most important to life—at its lower and posterior part; pro- ucing death, either instantly, or at no protracted period, by direct inter- rence with function. To this allusion will again be made, in speaking wounds of the orbit, implicating the base of the brain. Lodgment of Foreign Bodies. When foreign bodies penetrate the cranium where the site of lodg- ent can be ascertained through the wound, the surgeon naturally icomes desirous of effecting removal of so palpable an exciting cause the inflammatory process—the results of which he so much dreads, d not without good cause. If they can be felt by the finger used mtly as a probe, extraction may be effected easily in most cases by for- sps, or scoop, with little additional injury being inflicted on the cerebral *sue. In such circumstances, the operation should certainly be at- mpted with as little delay as possible. If, however, the site of lodg- ent is imknown, if the foreign body, of no great size, is found both fficult of access and firmly imbedded, or, still more, if the search for it Qst imply a random poking with a probe through the substance of the am, it is better to abstain from the infliction of exploratory and evul- violence; which would be certain to kindle an amount of inflamma- ry accession quite uncontrollable. It is better to witldiold all direct terference; contenting ourselves with antiphlogistic measures, to ineet Iat amount of the inflammatory process—perhaps amenable to control— neh the infliction of the wound and the lodgment of foreign matter nnot fail to induce. We may happily succeed ; though the general ognosis is doubtless unfavourable. There are instances on record of lilete, lodged deeply in the brain, remaining there harmless for years ;