103 PYiEMIA. puscles, the white corpuscles of the blood, and the corpuscles formed by the lymphatic system. 2. Pus, according to both experiment and obser- vation, may be mixed with circulating blood, without pyfemic results, 3. The entrance of pus may not be so easily effected as pathologists at one time supposed. The corpuscles cannot pass through the vascular coats by absorption. Venous orifices in suppurating wounds will ordi- narily be occluded fibrinously, else hemorrhage would occur; and there- fore the pus can scarcely be expected to pass into these, funnel-fashion. But, on the other hand, acute ulceration may open a vein, in connection with an acute advancing suppui-ation, more especially if asthenic, whether open or occult; and where blood comes out, pus may go in. And if it be true, that in " suppurative phlebitis" the internal coat of the vein poui-s out pus or puriform fluid, wMch, if it happen to find the cardiac outlet of the vein unoccluded, cannot help pushing its way into the cir- culation—a condition of things that some modern pathologists deny, but which has not yet passed from the behef of others—an explanation of the probability, at least, of direct purulent admixture, is plainly afforded. But while free internal suppuration of the veins is doubted by some, another important pathological change in that tissue is quite undeniable ; the formation of coagula, or fibrinous clots or plugs, which breaking down mechanically, or softening imder a decomposing morbid change, may be swept off into the current more or less copiously. In the one case, the solid fibrinous particles would not fail to become arrested in the capil- laries, and by their obstructive influence these might account, so far, for the rapid formations of pus in internal parts, which form so sad and characteristic aggravation of this disease ; in the other, the fluid result of the softening, unwholesome, and even perhajDs putrescent, mingling with the blood, would explain the deterioration of that fluid, and the onset of the grave typhoid symptoms. Predisposing causes, it can be readily understood, are much con- cerned in the invasion of such evils; and they are such as are common to all unhealthy products of inflammatory disease ; unhealthy season, unwholesome and insufficient food, crowding of patients in ill-ventilated wards, unskilful dressing and treatment of wounds, antecedent disease of a prostrating kind, etc. The symptoms have been graphically described by M. Sedillot: — " A patient is attacked by suppuration; when suddenly, either with- out any premonitory symptom, or some days after a hemorrhage, a diarrhoea, a diffuse inflammation, a phlebitis, an erysipelas, or a painful engorgement of a wound, a more or less violent shivering fit comes on. Frequently there is observed a general trembling, chattering of the teeth, a drawing in of the limbs towards the trunk, and a morbid dimi- nution of temperature of the skin; speech is difficult, the words uttered being short and interrupted; the eyes are hollow, and the features con- tracted ; the countenance is of a leaden or yellowish colour; the respi- ration frequent; the pulse small, soft, and rapid, and an instinctive sense of great peril is presented. The shivering ceases after a period varying from ten to forty-five minutes; the warmth of surface returns, and a slight transpiration is established. Erratic shiverings, however,