661 ECTllOPION. jluding tlio whole inverted portion of the lid. This part being now Averted, and held in that position, the two perpendicnlar incisions are jouuected by a horizontal incision upon the conjunctival surface, close to the cihary margin, by means of a scalpel; cutting through the con- junctiva and tarsal cartilage, and leaving the inverted portion of the margin united to the rest of the lid merely by the integument. And jspecial care is taken that the knife does not penetrate through the skin." VVater-di'essing is applied. And " the success of this operation depends in a great measure on the edges of the incision being prevented from imiting by the first intention, particularly the horizontal incision upon the conjunctival surface. This is effected by everting the lid occasionally iming the first few days, and by touching the edges immediately after the operation with the sulphate of copper, so as to cause them to sup- purate and heal by granulation."* Another operation for entropion consists in making a perpendicular section of the lid, with scissors, at the 3xternal commissure alone or at each canthus, from a quarter to half an inch long; taking care not to wound the punctum. An elliptical por- tion of skin is then removed from the outer surface of the lid. Two or three ligatures having been introduced through the skin at the tarsal margin, the eyelid is everted by means of them, and drawn up towards the eyebrow; in which position it is retained for a few days, by the hgatures being fixed to the forehead with a strip of adhesive plaster. In the meantime, the exposed mucous membrane is covered with a piece of wetted lint; and as the perpendicular incisions heal by granulation, a sufficient degree of eversion will be produced. Mr. Tyrrell recommended that the lid should be merely divided at its centre by a single perpendicular incision. The pressure caused by the contracted cartilage was thus relieved; and as the wound, shaped like an inverted A, healed by granulation, the margin of the lid was permitted to resume its normal position, and very little deformity re- sulted. These operations are only applicable to cases where the disease prises from a contracted state of the cartilage; and the first mentioned ^hould be preferred in all cases where practicable. Ectropion. Ectropion denotes an opposite condition of the eyelid ; its eversion ; nd is more frequently met with in the lower than in the upper lid. rhe conjunctival lining is exposed, the eyeball is partially denuded, and i^iuch deformity is produced. After a time, the exposed palpebral fjonjunctiva loses much of its membranous character ; the surface of the fyeball becomes irritable and inflames, and the cornea undergoes change p structre—probably fatal to vision; while, if the lower lid is the one pected, a degree of epiphora invariably exists, in consequence of the pitural course of the lachrymal secretion towards the puncta being inter- rupted. The mal-position most frequently results from contraction of jiicatnces of the integument; and these may exist in the eyelid or its inmediate vicinity, in the corresponding cheek, or extensively on the face or neck, as after severe burns. The cicatrix may foUow a burn, • Dublin Medical Press, July 27, 1812, p. 54.