PLASTIC GEOWTH. 28 of sero-fibrinous fluid, or coagulated lymph; the latter term denoting the form presented by this roceiit inflammatory product when aggregated on free surfaces unmixed with serous fluid. These results may be regarded as the characteristic product of the second stage of the inflam- matory process. This copious fibrinous formation, which is observed in the textures of the part undergoing the inflammatory process, and also in the general circulation, is derived from the elementary structures of the part.* When the inflammatory irritation commenced, these structures became affected, and secondarily induced the changes described in the surrounding tex- tures, vascular and otherwise. The effect observed in these elementary structures (connective tissue corpuscles) within the area of irritation, is the rapid formation of nuclear and cell elements, which, the disease continuing, as rajDidly moult and are succeeded by other similar forma- tions. This rapid disintegration of newly-formed cells produces, in the parenchyma of organs and textures, copious fibrinous collections com- bined with the accumulation of more or less serum, partly due to the same cellular source, partly to the escape of the serosity of the blood from the vessels blocked up and obstructed by the compact agglomeration of their corpuscular elements. In the inflammatory affections of mucous membranes, again, the cell formations, instead of accumulating along with the serum, are discharged from the free surface in the form of mucus globules, more or less altered from their normal constitution. (a.) This fibrin, containing in it some of the cell elements which have been rapidly formed by the connective tissue, may exist on the surface of the part; as on a serous membrane, or on the margins of a wound. Here the serous fluid having trickled away, the fibrin remains, in the form either of a continuous film, or of masses more or less detached; at first transparent, afterwards becoming yellowish, and somewhat opaque. Should the inflammatory process progi-ess slowly, or soon subside, Fig. 8. Fig. 9. Fig. 10. absorption finds the sero-fibrinous fluid, fibrin, and cell elements quite amenable to its play; and they are removed. But if the inflammatory process is rapid in its progress or persist, absorption cannot take place * Cappie on Inflammation. Edin. Med. and Surg. Joimial, Jan. 1854. Fig. 8. Nuclei in tlie fibrinous product, developiug tliemselves into fibres.— Bennett. Fig. 9. Fibro-plastic cells developing themselves into fibres.—Bennett. Fig. 10. Perfect wliite fibrous tissue.—Bennett.