LITHOTRIPSY. 1087 of this indication there are two methods—Lithotrity, and Lithotripsy; tlie latter the more modern, and preferable. LWiotrity signifies a boring or rubbing of the calculus, in the hope of its becoming pulverized. Tliis was first put in practice—at all events in modern times*—in 1800, by General Martin; who operated on him- self, with partial success, by means of a file. In 1813, Gruithuisen proposed the use of a canula, through which, by moans of a wire, the calculus was to be noosed, and then attacked by a borer. In 1819, Elderton invented a more feasible instrument. But neither of these were used in practice. In the same year. Dr. Arnott did good service, in illustrating the capabihties of the urethra and bladder, for the reception and play of suitable apparatus. In 1822, Amussat, Leroy, and Heurteloup busied themselves in this department; the latter most ingeniously. And in 1823, M. Civiale, availing himself of the labours of his predecessors, invented a three-branched boring apparatus ; well adapted for drilling stones when caught—equally apt, however, to seize the coats of the bladder, and not very well adapted for disposing of the stone effectually. Its success in practice proved but indifferent. And, now, all such im- plements have been superseded by the crushing apparatus—more simple, safe, and effectual—whose use constitutes Lithotripsy. Litlwtripsy. To remove calculus by crushing is a more modern idea than that of boring or drilling. Various instruments have been proposed and used ; some with screws, some with hammers. At present the voice of the profession apparently prefers the former; on the principle of the instru- ment originally invented by Mr. Weiss in 1824 ; composed of two blades, abruptly curved at the extremity—the one sliding on the other, and propelled by means of a screw. A stone having resisted all endeavours towards its spontaneous ex- pulsion by the urethra—and after, perhaps, a vain attempt has been made towards disintegration by medicinal means—has but two ways of being efl&ciently dealt with—Lithotripsy, and Excision. Some years ago, a hot controversy was waged between the supporters of these opera- tions ; each party maintaining their adopted procedure to be the best, and applicable to all cases of stone in the bladder; one party attempting to grind or crush every stone that presented itself, the other using the knife indiscriminately. Fortunately, a better state of things now exists. The well-educated surgeon, finding himself equally well qualified to perform either operation, is in a position to consider, calmly and impartially, the bearings of each case that comes under his care. Some he finds suitable for Lithotripsy, others not; and so some stones he attempts to crush, and others he at once sets aside for excision. And therein he does well. The one operation does not, and cannot, wholly supersede the other; and yet there is every reason to beheve that often the crushing operation is by much to be preferred ; not less formidable in all cases of stone; but certainly less formidable in those whose circumstances we recognise * ALBtrcASis and Sanctoritts had notions of bruising stones, and invented in- struments for the purpose.