THE INDURATED OR TRUE CHANCRE. 1149 the prepuce; lint being afterwards tucked in, by means of a probe, between the prepuce and glans, as far back as the balano-preputial sulcus. Tlie former device should only be resorted to when the swell- ing is so great as to interfere with the vitality of the prepuce, or with micturition; as the cut surface, imless, indeed, it be carefully destroyed with caustic along with the sores, is sure to be converted into an exten- sive chancre. Warts are not an unfrequent consequence of the irritation of cutaneo- mucous surfaces produced by the existence of soft chancres. They are subject to the same treatment, and are equally non-specific, as those which attend on gonorrhoea. II.—The Indurated, Hunterian, Infecting, Syphilitic, or True Chancre. This form of sore has only within a comparatively recent period been definitely distinguished from the soft chancre. Although in most cases possessing well-marked characters, these vary in degree, according to cir- cumstances more or less appreciable. When, however, a well-marked example is examined, we find its characters consist in being a superficial erosion, situated upon an indurated base. The ulcer or sore has a regularly rounded, oval, or elongated form, according to the part upon which it exists ; sometimes not larger than a millet seed, rarely attaining to the size of a shilling. In any circumstances the loss of substance is quite superficial, rarely implicating the whole thickness of the true skin. The surface, in its early or extension-period, usually presents a pearly grey aspect without granulations; at a later period, and when stationary, it has a dark red, tawny, or brownish tint—or glossy appearance, as if varnished ; at other times, especially when about to heal, it shows a purely granular aspect. The general surface is usually cup-shaped, as if scooped out by means of a gouge. The edges sometimes, from the induration being more or less elevated, slope gently downwards and become continuous with the surface of the sore. They have usually a white, ring-like aspect, within which the sore is set, and which is easily observed when the tissues are compressed with the fingers or otherwise put on the stretch. There is scarcely any secretion from the surface of the sore ; and what there is consists of serosity more or less gummy in its character—con- taining usually no pus globules, and nothing but a few epithelial scales. The induration of the base and margins of the ulcer constitutes its great characteristic; giving an almost cartilaginous consistence to the atmos- phere of texture which surrounds and subtends its surface. This indura- tion, according to the size of the sore, resembles in well-marked cases a millet seed, a split pea, a bean, or a nut, implanted in the textures of the affected part. Sometimes, however, the induration is not so well marked, but is only superficial; resembling rather a bit of parchment, and requir- ing skilled fingers to recognise its presence (induration ''en surface," or parcheminee"). The difference is apparently due to the degree of development of the lymphatics in the part; being most perfect where the lymphatic system is most developed and its vessels most numerous—as for example upon the balano-preputial fold, or the prolabium of the lips. When this induration is greatly pronounced, the surface of the sore becomes