1329 DISLOCATIONS OF THE PATELLA. weak and swoln for some considerable time—perhaps the seat of rheu- matic pains ; and the use of a knee-cap is expedient. If chronic structural change threaten to ensue, that must be opposed by the ordinary means. Dislocation of the head of the Fibula is a rare accident. It ma,y take place, by violence, either backwards or forwards. Keduction is effected by direct coaptation ; and bandaging sufficiently effects retention. Should displacement depend on relaxation of the retaining ligament, the pressure of a knee-cap or bandage is necessary ; with stimulation of the part, to restore the normal state if possible. Dislocations of the Patella. The Patella is Hable to be displaced, in various directions; by ex- ternal violence, applied directly or indirectly. But such accidents are rare. 1. Outwards.—This is most commonly caused by muscular con- traction ; and is apt to occur in persons who are knock-kneed, and in whom the external ridge of the articulating surface of the tibials slightly developed. The bone is thrown outwards on the external condyle, and forms a manifest projection there ; while the knee is incapable of flexion. 2, Inwards.—This is the result of direct injury; the bone being struck on its outer side, while the foot is turned inwards. The mal-position is the reverse of the preceding. Eeduction in either case is effected by raising the leg and thigh and flexing them on the abdomen, so as to relax the extensor muscles on the thigh, fully j at the same time, with the hand, forcing the bone back to its place. 3. The patella may be displaced by Semi-rotation ; one edge resting on the middle of the articular surface between the condyles of the femur, while the other projects beneath the tense integument. Eeduction in this case is to be effected by flexing the knee to the utmost; so as to free the bone, and admit of its being drawn into its normal position by the action of the extensor muscles. Should this means fail, it may be expe- dient to divide the ligamentum patellas, by subcutaneous incision. 4. The bone can be displaced Upwards ; but only on division of the ligamentum patellas, by wound or tear. The treatment is as for trans- verse fracture of the patella. 5. SHght displacement, Downwards, may follow rupture of the tendon of the rectus muscle, Dislocations of the Anide, I. Dislocation of the Tibia inioards.—This, as already stated, usually co-exists with fracture of the lower end of the fibula. The foot is everted; and the internal malleolus projects greatly. Keduction is effected by extension of the foot; while the limb is bent at a right angle, so as to relax the gastrocnemii muscles. And this flexed position of the leg, be it remembered, is essential in the treatment of aU luxations at the ankle. Eeplacement having been accomplished, Dupuytren's splint is applied on the inner side of the limb; and should it seem necessary, for complete retention, a minor splint may be placed on the outer side also. II. Dislocation of the Tibia forwards.—This, too, attends on fracture 4 Q