CHAPTER XXXI. II^JUEIES OF THE CRANIUM; AND THEIR CONSEQUENCES. By external violence the cranium may be shaken, fissured, or fractur ■with comminution. In any case, more or less injury is at the same t' sustained by the cranial contents. The brain and its investing mem- branes may be bruised or torn, and blood may become extravasated TL inflammatory process may be kindled; perilling life by the accumul tion of serous or fibrinous product, by suppuration, or by clironic chan of structure. Or the brain may be merely shaken, and temporaril; impaired in its function. Concussion of the Brain. In strict acceptation, this term denotes a mere shaking or succussio of the organ ; often without any appreciable lesion of structure ; but i severe cases always accompanied with more or less bruising, rupture, ( laceration of the brain and its membranes, with consequent escape blood—occurring either at the time of the accident, or afterwards wh reaction sets in. Eunction is impaired, often most seriously; usually is after a time restored, more or less completely; yet not without mu risk of an inflammatory process intervening, in either the brain membranes, to modify, protract, or prevent the fortunate issue, symptoms of concussion vary with the degree of injury which has b inflicted. Where no bruising, rupture, or laceration of the brain's s stance, blood-vessels, or membranes has occurred, the symptoms slightly developed, and pass ofi' in a few minutes, or at most witliin h an hour; but where laceration has ensued, the symptoms may either 1 for hours, and terminate in a partial or very slow restoration to heal or death may ensue very speedily after the accident, and without sign of recovery having manifested itself The force may be applied either directly or indirectly ; the crani may be the part struck; or the patient, aHghting on his feet, nates, chin, may have the force of the shock conveyed indirectly to the h through the spinal column in the first instances, and the inferior m; in the last, so as to act upon the base of the skull with quite as force as though it had been directly subjected to the injury. The symptoms of concussion of the brain, varying in intensity acc ing to the degree of injury, and in their nature according to the p aflPected, and the period wl^iich has intervened since its infliction, are gc rally as follows :—Sensation, mental power, and voluntary motion