AFFECTIONS OF THE TYMPANUM. 834 of gveatoi- or less intensity must bo anticipnted, and a chronic fa-tid discharge (internal otorrhea) Avill continue, so long as any source of ii-ri- tation still remains in action—whether this reside in the perverted nutri- tion of the mucous membrane, or depend on the presence of dead oi' ulcerating bone within the cavity. The treatment of such cases should consist in active leeching, and the administration of antimony with calomel and opium. AVlienever the symptoms present an increasing severity, and resist what is sufficient in slighter cases, viz., the use of warm gargling, and hot opiate poulticing of the jaw and throat—these warm and moist applications should be pro- longed, so long as the acute stage of the inflammatory process con- tinues. Should suppuration occur, and the bulging of the membrane be recognised, a free incision should be made anterior to the handle of the malleus, with an iris knife introduced thi'ough the speculum. This will afford instant relief Wlien tenderness — and still more, swelling and redness—exist over the mastoid process and its base, a free incision should bo made down to the bone through the supeiim- posed tissues. As soon as the inflammatoiy symptoms begin to subside, whether suppuration has taken place or not, the progress of the case is usually hastened by the repetition of blisters behind the ear, or to the nape of the neck. While matter continues to flow from the aperture in the membrana tympani, the greatest attention should be paid to cleanliness, by daily washing out the meatus with the syringe. Shoidd the free escape of the purulent secretion appear to be prevented by the smallness of the aper- ture, this should be enlarged; usually, however, such interference is not required, ulceration of the membrane having established a very free and sufficient aperture of escape. Wlien such free aperture exists, the injec- tion of warm water should be employed carefully, and the use of astrin- gent solutions should be abstained frono. Constitutional tonic treatment, and measures to establish the patency of the Eustacliian tube, should it be found to be obstructed, must also b€ attended to as circumstances seem to direct. The risk of a relapse should ; be borne in mind, and every precaution taken to guard against it. j Chronic Inflammatory Affections of the Tympanum. These are recognised by their results. Thus, in children, mucous or muco-purulent fluid is frequently founc filling the tympanic cavity without any perforation of the membran; tympani. The affection also occurs in adults, but less fr'equently. 1' the child, the bulging of the membrane, thickening of its textures, a^n more or less of a pulpy macerated aspect, attend upon such accimnila tion, without, however, the pre-existence of any acute inflammatory syuij'' toms. By some, however, convulsive affections occurring in inftuio; and childhood have been referred to the existence of such accumula(io) in the cavity of the tympanum. In the adult, opacity of the membrana tympani, with sometime? n increased concavity, will be found to exist. The patient complains '