74 PASSIVE CONGESTION. diminislied in those cases wliere the cause is local, and as in other examples the venous return is impeded, tlic redness is always of a dark hue; little or no heat is complained of | a sense of weight and dulness is felt, rather than pain; eifusion is serous, due to mechanical causes ; and the swelling differs distinctively from the inflammatory enlargement of texture, in that we have neither tension, induration, nor increased proliferation of texture; function is more or less disturbed. The characteristic symptoms, as contrasted with those of tlie acute form, are—tlie dark colour of the part, comparative absence of pain and lieat, and soft doughy swelling gradually formed, influenced by position and pressure. The Games of Passive congestion may be shortly stated to be, 1. previous perverted vascular function; 2, local debility from any cause, more especially as evinced by atony of the blood-vessels; 3. obstruction to venous return; 4. alteration in the quality; and 5. in the distribution of the blood; 6. general debility. (1.) It has been already observed that the Passive form may be the consequence of the Active. The textures remaining debilitated, the arteries, capillaries, and veins continue distended and weak. (2.) Local debility, however induced—by inflammatory change, exposure to continued cold, application of poison, mechanical injury—is manifestly favourable to depression of textiu-al functional activity, and therefore to weakness of circulation there. (3.) Obstruction to venous return by creating distension is a direct cause of venous accumulation. It may be the result of position; long maiatenance of the erect posture, for example, tending to induce passsive congestion of the lower extremities. Or there may be obstruction by compression; by ligature, by tumour, or by over-distension of a normal part. Habitual use of a tight garter will occasion passive congestion of the leg; and a similar result will follow the formation of tumour in the popHteal space or at the groin, as well as great and habitual distension of the lower bowel by fseculent matter. (4.) Diminution of the normal pro- portion of fibrin in the blood renders its fluid portion more transudable, and so favours jjassive effusion of fluid, should congestion, from any cause, however shght, co-exist—as from the decubitus during continued fever, or the dependent position of the legs dm^ing convalescence. (5.) Determination of blood to a part certainly produces congestion there ; and if the part have been previously weak, the congestion will probably be to a large extent of the passive form. Thus an internal organ, having just recovered from inflammatory disease, with its vital power depressed, and the minute vessels still large and of weak circulation, can scarcely escape passive congestion, if the patient imprudently expose himself to cold, so as to cause decided intropulsion of blood to it from the surface. (6.) General debility, bringing at once proneness to unwonted determinations, with an easy overcoming of the extreme vessels thereby, plainly favours passive congestion. (7.) It not unfrequently happens that two or more of such causes occur in unison, rendering the establishment of the morbid condition aU the more certain. Thus, the patient described under the fifth head may be of either scrofulous or scorbutic constitution; and, in his case, all the causes will probably have combined, excepting perhaps direct obstruction of the venous return. And yet that need not be wanting; he may have diseased heart, impeding pulmonic circulation;