LIGATURE OF THE BRACHIAL. 895 dilated. Care must bo taken to avoid the cephalic vein and thoracico- acromialis arteiy. To expose these vessels, however, is scarcely an untoward occurrence, as it may happen to prove a convenient guide to the axillary, of which we are in search. The deep fascia and fat are next carefully cut through; and it may even be necessary to turn down the upper border of the pectoralis minor ; the funnel-shaped prolongation of the costo-coracoid aponeurosis is then carefully opened, towards its clavicular aspect. The vein will probably be first disclosed, and is to be pressed inwards towards the ribs; and, the artery having been care- fully isolated to the requisite extent, the needle is passed from the thoracic to the acromial aspect. In this operation as many as twelve vessels, branches of the acromio-thoracic trunk, may require ligature. For the inferior operation, the arm is raised from the side, with the hand supinated. In the lower part of the axilla, thus exposed, the head of the humerus is felt occupying the apex of the axilla ; and from this point an incision is made of about two or three inches in length, to the inner side of the coraco-brachialis muscle. Then, on dissecting through fascia and areolar tissue, the median nerve is likely first to be exposed, while the ulnar and internal cutaneous nerves will be seen lying to the inner side, and the axillary vein still internal to them; the median nerve having been displaced outwards, and the other nerves and veins inwards, the artery will be brought into view. When sufficiently cleared from its areolar connections, the needle is passed from the inner aspect. In the latter part of the operation, it is useful to relax the textures, by bending the forearm. Deligation of the BracMal. The hrachial or humeral artery may be secured at any part of its course ; on account of true aneurism, which is a very rare condition ; on account of wound, or traumatic aneurism—not uncommon; or, accord- ing to some authorities, on account of an otherwise imcontrollable hemor- rhage from either the hand or the forearm. If such a condition did occur, for obvious anatomical reasons ligature of the third stage of the axillary would be more likely to be followed by an arrest of the bleeding; fortunately, however, by means of either deligation or graduated com- pression of the bleeding vessel itself, such a procedure need never be required. In operating, the arm having been steadied on a convenient table or pillow, with the hand supinated, ligature of the brachial is con- ducted thus:— In the upijer part of the arm, an incision of about two inches in length is made over the vessel—felt pulsating—along the inner border of the coraco-brachialis muscle and median nerve, which can easily be felt rolling under the fingers ; and care is taken to avoid the basilic vein and internal cutaneous nerve, which may lie in the way. The fascia having been divided, the ulnar and internal cutaneous nerves, on the inside—the external cutaneous and median nerves, on the outside—the vense comites close on each side—are avoided ; the arm being bent, for the purpose of relaxing these tissues, if necessary. The vessel having been isolated, the needle is passed from the inner aspect. Sometimes the median nerve lies upon the artery.