45 EFFECTS OF BLOOD-LETTING. nutritive supply, as also by enabling the arteries leading to the part in some degree to recover their tone; and this is the more likely to occur if, meanwhile, the excitation which causes the inflammatory process has been removed. Besides this, as after blood-letting we find that the amount of fibrin in the blood is more speedily restored than its corpuscles or albu- men, there seems good reason to believe that the loss of blood, by causing derivation, promotes absorption of the inflammatory products, thus re- lieving tlie tension of the part affected, which would otherwise prove a material element in exciting the progress of the disease, and its termina- tion in destructive results. 5. The action of other remedies is facilitated. " By lessening that morbid impetus of the blood by which during the state of inflammatory fever the natural excretions are apparently impeded, and at the same time by promoting absorption into the blood (as loss of blood is well known to do), it favours the effect of all other evacuating remedies intended to act on the excretions of individual parts of the system," And further, by its precedence, it renders certain remedies— as mercury and opium—decidedly beneficial, which otherwise would have proved either inoperative, or absolutely injurious. It is specially qualified to lead in the attack ; the others to accompany or to follow. These beneficial results of blood-letting are materially affected by the manner in which the blood is drawn. As already stated, it is desirable, in the great majority of cases, to obtain the resolutive effects at a cost of as little blood as possible ; and, with this view, the manner of abstrac- tion becomes all-important. Make a large orifice in a vein or veins, let the blood escape in rapid, full stream, with the patient in the erect or semi-erect posture, and syncope is soon arrived at; these circumstances tending to sudden withdrawal of wonted stimulus from the heart, and diminution of arterial supply to the brain. "Whereas, blood may be taken in large quantity—especially when tolerance by disease exists— from a small aperture, in a slow and small stream, during recumbency; in fact, the system may be thus almost wholly drained of blood, ere faintness threaten to ensue. And thus we see how slow venous hemor- rhages, of accidental origin, prove so dangerous ; faintness—so favourable to the spontaneous and effectual arrest of the flow, by formation of coagulum—being too long deferred. Syncope may be, in truth, regarded as Nature's safeguard against hemorrhage. In the case of accidental wounds, it usually supervenes ere actual danger has accrued from the loss; allowing the vascular orifices to contract, and to become occluded by coagula. When blood is designedly taken in the treatment of disease, and when it is proper that blood should be so taken, there is tolerance ; or, in other words, syncope remains in abeyance, till a sufficiency shall have passed away. But should an error of judgment have been com- mitted by the practitioner, Nature is ever watcliful to retrieve it; and, where blood is flomng when it ought not, very little is lost ere syncope steps in and arrests the stream. In antiphlogistic bleeding, then—except in the comparatively few cases m which actual loss of blood is desirable, for its own sake—the abstraction is made rapidly, in the erect or semi-erect posture. But syncope is to be approached, rather than actually attained. Our object 13, not only to produce, but to maintain, a sedative effect on the heart and