231 HEMORRHAGIC DIATHESIS. not solely, in the male lino; disclosing itself at an early age, and abating as age advances. The morbid condition often seems to fluctuate ; a scratch at one time threatening £ital loss of blood, while at another scarcely attracting attention. And in some patients distinct periods of remission and exacerbation may be observed. At the latter times, the patient is subject to frequent attacks of pain and swelling, with ecchy- mosis of the wrists, ankles, and knee joints, attended with fever. These symptoms continue generally about a fortnight. The diathesis has many points of resemblance to both the scrofulous and the scorbutic ; and, Hke these, it has its marks of indication. The most prominent are—an obvious delicacy of system ; usually a fair com- plexion ; a thin transparency of skin j irritability of the circulation at aU times; occasional febrile accessions; tendency to ecchymosis from the slightest cause, as also to hemorrhagic oozings from mucous surfaces; every scratch, even in other respects the most trifling, causing alarm, trouble, and sometimes danger, by continuing to bleed. The cause would seem to be twofold; a morbid condition of the blood, and also of the bloodvessels. The blood looks thin and ichorous. It is deficient in the due proportion of fibrin, and in the power of coagu- lation ; more especially it is incapable, even when wholly at rest, of forming a dense and firm coagulum. And, in consequence of such change in the fluid, there ensues an undue tendency to congestion of the capillaries. So that these vessels, when cut, are not only filled with blood incapable of affording the most important hemostatic means— coagulation; but also contain an amount of that fluid greater than in the state of health. The capillaries and minute arterial twigs are also at fault. When examined, the latter seem to be devoid of the middle coat; of a thin and feeble appearance, and unusually capacious. It may be that the middle coat is deficient, as some suppose ; but more probably it exists, though in a defective state, and certainly much impaired in contractility and tone. In consequence, the other component parts of the natural hemostatics are equally defective as the power of coagulation. The cut vessel contracts and retracts, scarcely if at all; remaining open and un- shrunk, passively pouring out its thin contents. Besides, all the coats are friable, and easily torn; and, in consequence, slight bruise produces serious ecchymosis; coughing may induce haemoptysis ; a sneeze brings on epistaxis; and extravasations are not unlikely to follow slight causes within internal cavities. ^ Thus constituting the hemorrhagic diathesis, we have, besides general irritability of the circulation, blood flowing through dilated and non- contractOe tubes, sent thither in greater volume than in ordinary and healthy circumstances, thinner and more fluent than in health, and little if at all able to arrest its own course by assuming the solid form; fur- ther, the containing vessels are prone to give way, on application of the slightest violence. Not unfrequently, a febrile condition at the same tune exists; and when it does exist, it increases the intensity of the diathesis. Treatment—The history and appearance of a patient having made us aware of the presence of this morbid state of the general and circu-