32 THE FORMATION OF PUS. Erom what has been said, its formation will be seen to be due not to a chemical process, as at one time imagined ; nor to any melting do^vn of the solids, by putrescence, as the name of x>u8 (tuw) implies—but to a largely-increased formation, and as rapid degeneration, of tlie corpuscular elements of the connective tissue ; and hence a vital product, quite as much as the secretion of any other fluid containing cell-structures [the mucous, e.g.\ only witli this difference, that the one is the product of healthy, the other of morbidly increased cell formation. As the inflammatory process approached the completion of its third stage, we saw that there was obstruction of the circulation of the blood, the presence of copious fibrinous product, the formation of innumerable cell-structures, more or less extravasation of blood by giving way of the altered vascular coats, and considerable breaking up of normal texture ; due to the formation and bbghting of cells resulting from the hyper- plastic changes in which the process consisted essentially throughout. At one time it was generally supposed that this purulent fluid was pro- duced by a mere transformation of the liquor sanguinis, either within or exuded beyond the vessels, attempting cell-formation of the plastic grade, but failing to advance beyond the pus-corpuscle. !N'ow-a-days we hold that the pus is virtually a formation, or secretion, from the cells of the primary connective tissue. Pus, as we have described it, is of its normal character ; and, as such, is usually termed healthy, or laudable. But various circumstances may cause deviation from this state. A chemical action—j^erhaps the result of atmospheric contact—may be superadded to the vital process; pro- ducing, by decomposition of the serum, hydrosidphide of ammonia, whose presence is indicated by an offensive odour, and by the blackening of silver probes brought in contact with the pus. Pus may contain blood, either fluid or solid—besides containing the fluid and molecular debris of the suppurated part. It is reddened thereby, and found to contain blood discs, masses of coagula, and traces of broken-down tissue. It is then termed sanious or grumous. In those of weak systems, it is often deficient in solid matter, con- sisting chiefly of a thin serum ; it is then termed serous. In the scro- fulous and cachectic, besides being serous, it often contains flakes or masses of a curdy appearance; and to such pus the term scrofulous is usually applied. Sometimes it is impregnated with a subtle virus ; it is then said to be specific. Or it may be variously mixed with the altered secretions from mucous, serous, or synovial membranes, and termed in consequence muco- purulent and seropurulent. Several substances, met with in the organism, are apt to be con- founded with pus. Fibrin which, within or without tlie blood-vessels, has been subjected for some time to the softening action of fluids ; the creamy softening of cancerous growths; various fluids Avhen intimately mixed, in certain proportions, with epithelium—these may resemble pus to the naked eye, nay, can hardly be distinguished by microscopic examina- tion, e.g. in urinary deposits. Pus may be formed on the free surface of a part, and be thence dis-