946 SOFTENING OF THE CORD. in-ove of great service. At a later period, when the restoration of func- tion has advanced partially, and then become arrested, Corrigan's cautery, warm-hathing, friction of the limbs, exercise of the muscles, encouraged by exercise and perhaps by galvanism or electricity, peripheral stimu- lation of the sensory nerves by painting the limbs from time to time in stripes with a strong solution of iodine or of nitrate of silver—and the use of strycbnine, phosphoric acid, or ergot of rye, internally— will be found useful in the atonic state of the parts affected; while the actual cautery and atropine will be found of more service, where painful sensations exist in the injured part and in the extremities. Compression of the Spinal Cord.—This may be caused by extravasa- tion of blood within the spinal canal, on the surface or in the substance of the cord; by fracture and displacement of the vertebrae, producing direct pressure on the cord, with or without laceration of its substance; by inflammatory results formed exterior to the cord ; or by inflammatory disorganization of the cord itself. Very obviously, any operative inter- ference with the spinal canal by means of the trephine or otherwise, is out of the question. The progress of the symptoms, and treatment of this condition, are as already described. The circumstances in which the symptoms occur, their severity, persistence, and termination—or in the case of copious extravasation, their gradual extension and ascending involvement of the functions of those parts connected with the upper part of the spinal cord—can alone enable us, in the hving patient, to dis- tinguish between concussion and compression of the cord. In the case of extravasated blood, if the immediate risk be overpassed, we may reasonably entertain expectation of a fortunate result. On the other hand, few cases of displaced fracture are wholly recovered from. And the end of inflammatory disorganization, whether chronic or acute, is almost invariably disastrous. Softening of the spinal cord, chronic, insidious, and intractable, is no unfrequent consequence of severe falls, or blows, upon the spine; but may occur independently of injury in those of the upper ranks of life, who have lived hard and indulged much in venereal excesses. The lower limbs first begin to fail, the extensor muscles proving unequal to maintain the erect posture, and the knees consequently ever and anon tlu'eatening to give way. The feet are moved oddly, and are not planted on the ground firmly, or with certainty on the spot intended; the legs are thrown outwards in stepping, and bring down the extended feet with a slap. The body is stooped in walldng; and the line of progress is seldom a straight one. The bowels get sluggish, and the abdomen tumid from distension of the intestines with wind. The urine is voided with difficulty. The arms are found to be weak; and the fingers seem to be gradually freeing themselves from control of the will; there being the same uncertainty and inefficiency in doing anything with the hands and fingers, as was first observed in the lower extremities. 'Not unfrequently the patient is much harassed by neuralgic pains of a darting or plunging character, shooting dovm the back and limbs, and sometimes affecting the head also. Gradually such symptoms increase ; mine and fgeces come to be passed involuntarily, or almost so ; the use of the limbs becomes more and more feeble and uncertain ; the brain at last is involved; the mind