817 FOREIGN BODIES SWALLOWED. wire, its use may be resorted to when forceps are not at hand, or where the foreign body is beyond their reach, "VVlien indigestible substances have passed into the stomach, they usually find their way to the surface, by the natural outlet—per anum; passing off with the feculent matter—often but little changed—after the lapse of some time, varying from days to even years. To assist the downward movement, purgatives are often recommended. If the foreign body be soUd and obtuse, no harm may be done by their employment, and extrusion will probably be expedited. But if the substance is sharp and spiculated, the practice cannot but be mischievous; tending to pro- duce entanglement in the mucous membrane, probably with perforation of the bowel; and also likely to kindle inflammatory access in the affected part. In such cases, therefore, it is more prudent to wait the working of Jfature, administering to the patient such articles of food as are likely to afford a copious excrementitious result, so as to entangle and shield the foreign body in its passage; porridge, figs, and dried French plums being well adapted for this purpose. Needles may perforate the intesti- nal canal; but, if left to themselves, the process is gradual, and usually harmless. In due time the foreign body appears at the surface, perhaps months after the date of its entrance, and thence it should be removed by incision if required. In many cases, however, in which needles are alleged to have been swallowed, and to have appeared from time to time upon the surface in most extraordinary circumstances, they have in reahty reached the situation they occupy by a much less circuitous route, having been directly and wilfuUy introduced into the part, to the extent of. even hundreds. The reason for such tampering it is sometimes hard to discover; but the pleasure of having chloroform administered, the interest attaching to their case, the desire to secure the attention of a medical man, or an excuse for lying constantly in bed, have all been met with as the only apparent reason in a hysterical patient for such very extraordinary conduct. Fish-bones, and bones of rabbits or other small animals, are not iinfrequently arrested by the sphincter of the anus, after having safely made the passage above ; and may require the use of both knife and creeps for their removal. Cherry-stones, and such lilie substances, may edge in the vermiform process of the caput caecum, and excite either ab- cess there, or general j)eritonitis. Occasionally, though rarely, it happens that the foreign body will ove neither up nor down in the oesophagus. Prudent efforts at extrac- on and propulsion having both failed, excision (oesophagotomy) is the nly other resource. This, however, can only be resorted to when the oreign body is lodged in the pharynx or cervical part of the oesophagus, r at least not lower down than the upper thoracic portion of the canal, other cases, instead of resorting to such force as may lacerate or rupture ' canal, or of groping for it with ingenious contrivances from day to y, it is safer to leave the foreign body alone ; trusting to the ulcerative rocess, which it is likely to induce by its pressure on the walls of tlio lal, as a means of effecting its dislodgment, and ejection by vomiting, its passage downwards to the stomach. During this period, sliould patient be able to swallow, milk only should be administered as 3 a