1029 T?ADTGAL CURE. extent of its textures above the internal pillar of the external ring. The skin is drawn inwards and downwards till the point of the needle can be made to protrude at the aperture from which the one extremity and loop of the ligature already hang. The thread is then freed from the eye of the needle, and the latter finally withdrawn. The ends of the ligature and the loop are now tightened up, the surgeon's finger being at the same time introduced within the canal to appreciate the approxi- mation of the posterior to the anterior walls of the canal, and the com- pleteness of closure of the external abdominal ring. A compress of lint, or a roller bandage, is then laid on between the loop and the ends of the ligature, in the axis of the inguinal canal; and one end of the thread, having been passed thi'ough the loop, is tied firmly to the other in a slip-knot. Pads of lint are placed on either side of the compress, and the whole supported by a spica bandage. The operation by wire, in preference to the one by ligature, is now usually preferred; and the wire best suited for this operation is made of copper, electro-plated with silver, of the size of 'No. 20 of the draw- plate. The first part of the operation is precisely the same as that already described, and secures the margin of the conjoined tendon. As the needle is withdrawn, the wire is carried along with it. The needle, hav- ing been disengaged, is again passed so as to secure the outer side of the internal ring close to Poupart's ligament, and having protruded at the same cutaneous opening is withdrawn along with the other extremity of the wire, thus leaving a loop of wire projecting. at the middle of the groin. The surgeon now carries the unarmed needle through behind the sac and in front of the cord, pinching up the former textures in the oblique incision in the scrotum, close to the external ring, and having inserted one of the ends of the wire which emerge from the aperture, into the eye of the needle, they are withdrawn together. When the hernia is small and recent, both pillars of the ring may be included in the last- mentioned course of the needle. The ends of the wire are now drawn upon, until the loop above is in close proximity to the skin. An assist- ant retains it here till the surgeon twists the free extremities of the wire together a few times, the loop is then drawn upwards and twisted a like number of times in the same direction, the surgeon introducing his finger into the scrotal opening to ascertain that the canal and external ring are satisfactorily closed; the ends of the wire are then passed through the loop over a compress, and, having been suitably abbreviated, the whole is supported by means of a spica bandage. After either operation the patient should be confined to bed, and so laid as to relax the abdominal parietes as completely as possible, and at the same time support the scrotum. An opiate should be administered, and the patient kept for the first few days on milk diet. There is usually no need for any movement of the bowels for four or five days, if they have been evacuated by means of castor oil before the operation—and then only if the patient feels unea.sy or is troubled with tympanitic distension. The ligatures should be untied and removed at the end of from three days to a week—and the Wire untwisted and withdrawn, through the upper aperture, at the end of from one week to a fortnight or even three weeks—regulating this