240 AFFECTIONS OF INTERNAL ORGANS propriety of undertaking it at all is rendered very doubtful. Another instance of a disease of this kind is senile gangrene ; which often de- pends on a wide-spread affection of the arterial system. A local disease may be such as, from its position alone, to involve both external and internal organs simultaneously. Thus caries of the petrous portion of the temporal bone may produce an inflammatory affec- tion of the external ear, at the same time that it is causing dangerous disease of the membranes of the brain; and attempted cure of the former affection may only expedite the destructive course of the latter. Again, a local disease may have become so connected with the habit, as it were, of an individual constitution, as to render its sudden removal dangerous. In some instances, for example, the removal of piles has given rise to dangerous hemorrhage into internal organs, or to other disease which had been restrained by the local discharge. But among the cases requiring the greatest caution, under this head, are those of external injuries ; especially when of a violent or concussive character. There is always a fear, in such cases, that an internal organ may be injuriously affected; and an ex- ternal wound or fracture may be a matter of small consideration indeed, when compared with a laceration of the brain, Liver, or other vital part. Deep-seated lesions are very apt to be overlooked in the first instance, from the shock which attends the injury masking all peculiar sensations ; and they should be made the subject of very careful inquiry, so soon as the patient has recovered liis conscious- ness. Even when not produced by ex- treme violence or concussion, wounds may be inflicted in such a manner as to cause effects of a serious charac- ter on internal organs. In illustra- tion of this, we may instance the for- midable effects in wounds of some of the greater veins, arising from the admission of air into the circulating blood; a lesion which has often been followed by instantaneously fatal consequences, during the extirpa- tion of tumours, or other operations in the axilla or neck. Thus, too, wounds of the lung are apt to be followed by many serious and fatal accidents; the admission of air to the pleural cavity being occasionally productive of immediate death, especially when there has been pre- viously a diseased state of the lungs on one or both sides. The state of general emphysema of the areolar tissue—its distension with air—which is apt to supervene on wounds of the air-passages, occasionally results in serious consequences; producing frightful inflation of the whole body, Fig. 102. General emphysema of the whole sm-facc, after wound of the right side of the chest. The patient was a light dragoon. After Lan-ey.