GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 503 densed, by compression, into a fine cellular investment, which has received from Baudens and others the name of the primitive cyst,'' within which the ball is described as being enclosed. Sometimes when a bullet is lodged, the wound closes in the ordinary way, and perhaps about the ordiiuuy time; the foreign body then becomes surrounded by an adventitious cyst composed of a dense llbrous envelope, usually firmly adherent to the ball and to any inequalities which may exist upon its surface, much as though the surrounding textures had become incor- porated with the metallic body—this Baudens calls the " definitive cyst" Thus the bullet may remain for years, undisturbed; or it may move gradu- ally from place to place, as from the loins to the back of the heel; causing but little uneasiness, except during atmospheric change—when pain, sense of weight, and general discomfort in the part, are apt to assume somewhat of a barometric character. Sharp, irregular bodies, especially if non- metallic, are, however, seldom so tractable; the surrounding parts do not tolerate theii- presence; suppuration is profuse, continued, or remit- tent ; inflammatory re-accessions are frequent; and quietude and closure are not obtained, until the offending substance has been dislodged and taken away. Sometimes the inflammatory process ceases, the wound contracts, and the discharge diminishes ; yet a sinus remains, communi- cating with the foreign body, as if indicating and waiting for its passage outwards. In this case the bullet has an envelope of a membranous character; but not shut and serous-like, as in the former case; rather mucous, and with an outlet. Clothing may either prevent the ball's entrance, or enter and lodge with it. A portion of shirt or handkerchief, for example, may be carried before a bullet, vrith its continuity unbroken, and become impacted in the wound. On pulling out the invaginated portion of dress, the bullet ^vill roll out from its interior. Or the clothing may be cut out like so many patches, and the portions driven inwards ; and these, with like portions of skin corresponding to the aperture of entrance, are likely to lodge while the ball may perforate and escape. Other foreign bodies, too, or substances which come to enact the part of such, may lodge, and untowardly complicate the wound ; as portions of earth, stone, wood, and splinters of fractured bone. Portions of the clothing, accoutrements, and even of the body, of one soldier, may be impacted in the wound of his comrade. Bone may be merely fractured j the injury being compound, but neither comminuted nor compHcated. Or it may be broken up into many portions of a spiculated character, with more or less of the frag- ments driven into the medullary canal. Or it may be simply perforated, ^vith longitudinal fissure extending more or less widely from the aper- ture. Or a smooth round ball may penetrate only the external part; and lodge in the cancelli, leaving the general continuity of the bone im- Ijroken. Projected very slowly, a similar ball may merely bruise the ''>ne. ^ But such bruise is apt to prove troublesome; exciting inflamma- 'ly mischief in a part of diminished power, and so greatly favouring the induction of necrosis. Gunshot injury of bone, indeed, of whatever inrl, 13 always of an unfavourable -character, and prone to extensive t'ocTosis; b'.'ing attended with much bmising of the tissue. Joints may be