1013 TREATMENT OF STRANGULATED HERNIA. independent of hernia—purely abdominal. If a hernia is discovered, of old standing and considerable size, not very tense or painful; if the pain is not greater in the tumour than elsewhere—perhaps not so great; if the bowels are acting, though perhaps imperfectly ; if, on inquiry, it is ascertained that the abdominal and general symptoms plainly, and by some considerable time, preceded change in the tumour ;—then the pro- bability is, that the affection is enteritic or peritonitic, originating in the general abdomen, affecting the tumour secondarily, and perhaps even in a minor degree. When, however, the signs of strangulation are found marked and acute, and the history plainly indicates precedence of the local and exfcra-abdominal signs of disorder, there need be no doubt that the case is of the ordinary kind—the urgency essentially dependent on strangulation of the hernia. In such circumstances, the presence of any suspicious swelling or fulness, which may possibly be due to the presence of a hernia, should, with the persistence of the symptoms, fully justify an exploratory operation to determine its true nature. Treatment of strangulated hernia necessarily varies according to the nature of the case. In general, it may be said that our object is to effect reduction as speedily as possible; saving structure, by favouring decline of the inflammatory process ; restoring the normal passage of the intes- tinal contents; and arresting the disastrous progress of constitutional disturbance. But it is not always good practice to have recourse to the manipulations for reduction immediately; and, in regard to this practical point, the cases may be divided into two great classes ; those which are preceded by inflammatory change in the hernia, and those in which this follows on constriction otherwise produced The latter, doubtless, are the majority. In the former, it is the natural and proper course of pro- cedure to remove the cause of constriction, if possible, in the ^rst instance —provided the case is chronic enough to admit of this ; leeches are ap- plied, and other suitable antiphlogistics enforced ; and when, by such means, the bulk of the tumour has diminished, and the parts have also acquired a better tolerance of manipulation, then reductive pressure may be employed—without risk of doing harm, and -with a good prospect of proving successful. But, in the other class of cases—where the constric- tion has caused inflammatory accession—by the removal of the former alone can we expect to cope successfully with the latter, and save the life of the patient. In employing leeches for the relief of hernia, it is well not to apply them to the tumour itself, but to its immediate vicinity; otherwise, the slipperiness which is produced, by oozing of blood, may interfere seriously with the manipulations of the taxis. In applying the taxis, the patient is placed recumbent, and with the limbs and trunk so arranged as to relax the abdominal parietes to the full; it is well also to see that the bladder is empty, and that no ban- dage, belt, or other outward constriction is affecting the abdomen. The tumour is then grasped with the hands, firmly yet cautiously ; and while with one hand general pressure is made on the bulk and body of the tumour—forcing it in upon itself, as it were, and at the same time push- mg it back jn the direction whence it has been protruded—a kneading or pinching movement is made on the neck of the tumour by the fingers