COIiNEITIS. G84 principal depcudeuce should be placed upon constitutional treatment Good nom-isliing food and frcsli air constitute the great essentiaLs" while iron and quinine, with occasional doses of some suitable alterati^'( cholagogue, will generally be found necessary in removing the debili tated condition of the system which maintains or protracts the disease. Cod-liver oil will also be found of great service, where suitable dietetii treatment cannot be obtained. The disease, it must be remembered is always tedious ; and restoration of the structural condition of the cornea will not usually become complete, for long after the inflamma- tory symptoms have been subdued; while a cornea which has once suffered from the attack is extremely liable to be again affected, froju trifling and almost inappreciable causes. Scrofulous or Strumous Keratitis has been already described undei the name of Scrofulous Ophthalmia. A form of chronic comeiti.s. attended with interstitial inflammatory product, has very generally been attributed to the scrofulous diathesis ; but Mr. Hutchison has satisfac- torily shown that this form of the disease is in reaUty due to the existence of an hereditary syphilitic taint. To it therefore the name of syphilitic, or the chronic interstitial keratitis, may more appropriate! be given. It occurs most commonly in children and adolescents, rarel commencing after the age of eighteen. Mr. Hutchison has observed more commonly in females than in males, and in the eldest child of a family than in the younger members. It commences usually in on" eye, by the appearance of one or more dots of a grey, brown, or h appearance, in the texture of the cornea; hence the name of " dot keratitis " which has sometimes been applied. These separate opaciti usually occupy the centre, or upper half of the cornea; they tend coalesce, and thus produce a more or less dense central nebula; the rarely ulcerate. At the commencement, there is little in the vasculari of the sclerotic or conjunctiva to attract attention, and no great uneasi ness or lachrymation to indicate evil. The dimness of vision which it produces is its most characteristic symptom; but as the disease pro- gresses, the peripheral vessels become congested, and a fine vascular ne work permeates the textm-es of the cornea, ultimately pervading th whole of the opaque portion. The vessels are small and deeply seate" and the surface of the cornea remains smooth ; thus differing from th vascular opacity which obtains in cases of granular lids. The physi ognomy of the patient, the marks of old syhpHitic affections, the presenc of a small, ill-coloured, pegged, vertically-notched condition of the can tral incisor teeth, will serve to make good the diagnosis of this form ol the afPection, and point to its dependence upon syphilis as its cause; a conclusion which traces of a previous or coincident attack of iritis, with posterior synechia, will still further justify in some cases. The treat- ment should be essentially tonic, as in common keratitis; but added tc this, mercurials and iodine, especially iodide of mercury and iodide ol iron, will be found essential, if we hope to check the disease, restore texture, and prevent relapse.