555 SY]\IPTOMS OF DISLOCATION. wlietlier the force lie applied directly or indirectly ; most frequently the break is from direct violence. Dislocation, in like manner, may be pro- iluccd either directly or indirectly ; hut is most likely to occur when the force is indirect—applied at the end of a long bono, and operating indi- rectly on its further extremity. Thus a patient, falling directly on the shoulder or hip, is most apt to suffer fracture. Whereas when he falls on the hand or foot, knee or elbow, and the injury is sustained at the liip or shoulder, it is more likely to be dislocation. The muscles sur- rounding the joint, were they, on application of the violence, to act all at once, in unison, would doubtless support the part, and oppose the dis- placing agency. But one or two, acting with suddenness and energy, Avill plainly tend rather to favour the occurrence of dislodgment, as well as to determine the direction in which it is to take place. Again, muscular action, alone, may effect luxation ; as in the case of the lower jaw, dis- located by yawning j also in those cases in which there is naturally much laxity and elongation of the articulating apparatus, and in which, conse- quently, the patient may have almost a voluntary power in effecting dis- placement. When the accident results from muscular action alone, or in conse- (j[uence of relaxation of the ligamentous apparatus, there is seldom any laceration of muscle, hgament, or tendon. But when it is produced by external violence, sudden and severe, operating on a part previously in a normal state, there is usually a giving way, by laceration, of the capsular ligament, and of muscular fibres exterior to it^—those which may happen especially to oppose the displacement; tendon, too, may be either rup- tiued or torn away from its osseous insertion. Such disruption of the parts exterior to the joint, doubtless, aggravates the nature of the injury, and favours extensive displacement; but, at the same time, fortunately, reduction is by the same circumstances facilitated. The Symptoms of dislocation are :—signs of displacement, more or less obvious ; a swelling where none should be, or a hollow where the surface should be even or raised ; shortening or elongation of the limb, as the case may be—more frequently the former. Much pain is com- plained of; particularly if a nervous trunk or plexus be compressed by the head of the bone; as in dislocation of the humerus into the axilla. And, usually, the patient is found, immediately after the accident, labour- mg under a marked shock or depression, often severe. Motion is much unpaired. The patient cannot raise or move the part; neither can the iirgeon; and any attempt to do so, on the part of either, is attended with great increase of suffering. The part is locked and fixed; most specially after some hours have elapsed. At first, the peculiar immobi- lity may not be very distinct, in consequence of muscular relaxation attendant on the shock; particularly if the patient happen to be '».y no means of a robust and muscular frame. But when the state of Impression has passed away, spastic rigidity seizes on the muscles impli- ■ited in the hurt; and by them the bone is locked firmly in its new '^nd unnatural situation. There is swelling, as in fracture ; at the first, ^rom botie being where no bone should be ; subsequently from more or ' sanguineous infiltration, or accumulation; and, more remotely, from products which attend on an aroused inflammatory process. On at-