DISLOCATION OF THE PELVIS. 1320 tlic ankle. In all such cases the foot should he kept at vest and elevated. The phalanges, if not demanding immediate ampututiim, are arranged and supported by small splints, retained by strips of adhesive plaster, as in the case of the analogous injuries of the superior extremity. DlHLOCATIONS. Didocation of tlie Pelvis. From heavy and high falls, it has occasionally happened that one of the Ossa Innominata has been displaced upwards; separated from the sacrum, at the sacro-iliac junction, and from its fellow at the symphysis pubis. The following are the diagnostic marks of the injury :—The limb of the atfected side is shortened and powerless ; yet the signs both of dislocation and of fracture of the tliigh-bone are absent ; and the limbs, when each is measured from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, are quite of the same length. The spine and horizontal ramus of the os pubis are elevated ; forming a hard ridge above and external to their ordinary site. The anterior superior spinous process, and the crest of the ilium, are on a higher level than those of the opposite side. By ex- amination from the rectum, the tuberosity of the ischium will be found raised, and nearer the mesial Hne; and the descending ramus of the os pubis will probably be on a plane considerably posterior to that of the sound side. The fold of the nates is higher than on the other side ; and, on the injured side of the sacrum, a depression will be felt, at the junc- tion of that bone with the ilium. More or less difficulty may be expe- rienced, in evacuating the bladder. Should the nature of the case he distinguished in time, moderate efforts have been recommended to be made for readjustment; by exten- sion of the limb, and forcing the ilium downwards with the hand. It is difficult, however, to see how retention of the articulating surfaces could be maintained, even should such reductive efforts prove successful. The bladder is to he relieved as often as circumstances may require ; and if the urethra is displaced, a flexible catheter may possihly pass more readily than the metallic instrument. The same attention to the state of the internal organs is required, as in the case of fracture of the pelvis. Indeed, fracture of the os puhis is not unlikely to be associated with such an accident. Prognosis is unfavourable. Separation of the Symphysis Pubis is said occasionally to occur, in difficult labour. It may also result from direct injury. Displacement is not great. By a broad belt the j)arts are kept unmoved, as well as in ajDposition. The sacrum has sometimes been found, after death, forced forwards between the two innominate bones. The accident has been caused by direct violence. Dislocations of the Hip. The head of the femur may be displaced, in various directions. The displacing force is usually indirect; but the accident occasionally results