1147 THE SOFT NON-INFECTING CHANCRE. class by "hardness," due to the accompanying inflammatory change acting on the surrounding tissues ; and the effect of some caustics and metallic lotions is to give to the base of the soft chancre a feeling of hardness closely approaching to that of the Hunterian sore. Phagedasna, too, may occur in other sores upon the genitals besides the soft chancre, whether they are of a simple kind or truly " indurated." According to some authorities, the sores which, in the early period of their history, present phagedfenic characters, and at a later period become indurated and followed by a well-marked syphilitic poisoning, are to be ascribed to a double infection, with the virus of both forms of chancre, the soft and the indurated. The characters of the soft are accordingly first manifested, accompanied by its accessory phagedsena; then at a later period the indurated characters display themselves, and are followed by a train of well-marked and serious secondary and tertiary lesions—the mere fact that phagedsena has occurred indicating an originally debilitated state of system, and one predisposed to suffer severely from the syphilitic infection. The ordinary site of the soft chancre is on the prepuce, and in the sulcus behind the corona glandis; often it is by the side of the frsenum ; occurring, in short, in the parts most susceptible of laceration, most ex- posed to contagion, and where the virus is most likely to nestle, over- looked. All sores near the frsenum are unfavourably situated. The second stage is of long duration, and ulceration is acute ; the sore continues to enlarge ; often it burrows beneath the frsenum, causing perforation; and reparation seldom advances, until the frsenum has been wholly destroyed. In aU such cases, therefore, it is weU to abbreviate the process, by division of the frsenum at once; care being taken that troublesome hemorrhage do not ensue, from the small but active artery which gene- rally shows itself at the time of incision. There are three varieties of the soft chancre which deserve notice :—1. The Diphtheritic ; 2. The Follicular ; 3. The Furun- culoid. The Diphtheritic presents usually a yellowish colour and a superficial aspect, as if but half the thickness of the true skin were involved, and as if the exposed surface were coated with a piece of wet chamois leather, set in an irregular cutaneous margin of a bright rosy hue. The Follicular is due to the lodgment of chancrous mat- ter in the open mouth of a follicle. The crypt suppurates acutely, raising the surrounding cutaneous or mucous surface into an elevation about the size of a pea, in the centre of which a yellow aperture is ob- servable. Such sores are slow of healing unless destroyed with caustic ; which, to act efficiently, must not only be made to touch the aperture, but to destroy the whole interior of the sac. The Furunculoid can easily be produced by artificial inoculation ; inserting the virus not only into the vascular layer of the true skin, but penetrating the cutaneous tissue, and lodging the matter in the areolar tissue beneath. An acute boil forms, the pus from which is chancrous. The edges of the boil become undermined, ulcerate, evert; and sometimes the sore so pro- duced attains to the size of half-a-crown before the period of arrest and cicatrization is attained.