EFFECTS OF COLD. 527 rrloves are very objectionable, being very frequent predisposing causes of such affections ; a frequent change of shoes and stockings should also be attended to so as to diminish as much as possible the cold, clammy, and moist condition of the feet. When the congestive state has been induced, probably the best remedy is nitrate of silver, applied so as to blacken the integument; carefully avoiding vesication. Some, hoAvever, prefer tincture of iodine, and others believe rather in the effects of stimulating spirituous liniments, such as the soaj) and oj)ium with ammonia, or tincture of cantharides. Chloroform liniment, carron oil, or glycerine will usually allay the excessive itching better than anything else. For the ulcer and fissures, in their eai'ly and iiTitable period, nitrate of silver in substance is suitable ; fol- lowed by light poultice or water-dressing. When they have become weak or indolent—as they tend soon to do—various stimulant applications are required, such as the citrine or red precipitate ointment, the black wash, or even the application of a blister ; while attention must be paid to securing uniform support by careful bandaging. A bandage care- lessly applied, so as to cause partial constriction, would certainly be pro- ductive of very serious injury to a part whose vital power remains so long and so much impaired. When sloughing has taken place, a soft poultice or water-dressing should be used alone until the slough comes away. When the whole frame is exposed to intense cold, the general powers of hfe gradually cease. The patient grows feeble and languid, inclines greatly to sleep, sleeps, becomes comatose, and dies. On dissection, there is usully found considerable serous effusion within the cranium. JTo prevent the extreme sedative result, the mind must be made to work against the body. Sleep and lying down must be resisted, wakefulness and bodily exertion compelled. To restore, the same gradual appliances must be used as in regard to a part; cold friction; gradual increase of the temperature; and very sparing administration of food, drink, and other stimulants, internally.