G'J5 IIUTIS. ^ ig. 255. The same diseiuse ; seen iu front. Staplujloma raccmosmn. between the lids, then diiuinution by cither puncture or incision may be tried, in the hoi^e that by allowing the fluid within to drain ofi:; atropliy of the globe may occur ; but if this be not elTectual, iridectomy, division of the ciliary hgament, or intra-ocular myotomy, may be employed ; or the aqueous humour ouglit to be discharged from time to time through an incision in the cornea; or the cornea, with the iris and lens, may be alto-'ether removed, and then tlie globe will collapse, and the eye shrink Fig. 254. Kg. 255. to a small size. But in most of the cases in which operative interference is required, the eye is totally destroyed in point of function, and its altered and diseased textures act as a constant source of irritation to the sound eye. In such circumstances, excision of the globe is a preferable operation to those just mentioned. In the early stage, internal use of the arsenical solution seems to exert a beneficial influence in preventing or checking the bulgings of the sclerotic. Affections of the Iris. Iritis. luflammatory affection of the iris may be the result of injury, acci- ental or operative, or it may be of idiopathic origin; it may occm- pri- arily, itself constituting a disease, or it may be but a part of general eep ophthalmia; it is often connected with the syphilitic taint of system ; nd not unfrequently it is of a rheumatic character. The accidents which re most prone to excite the inflammatory process, are the lodgment of oreign bodies in contact with the iris, the tearing away of some portion f its border from its ciliary attachment, or displacement of the lens ressing the iris forward against the cornea. Mere wounds of its texture, s in the operation for artificial pupil, or when its surface or edge falls efore the knife in extraction of a cataract, are not usually attended by ny inflammatory symptoms ; and now-a-days, even Avhen a considerable ortion of its whole breadth is removed in the operation of iridectomy, no nflammatory mischief is found to result. Various unintelligible and mute divisions of iritis have been resorted to by continental autlio- 'ties, but without any real practical advantage. There are c(3rtain , Fig. 254. Staphyloma of the Sdcrotic Coat; scon in iirolil(3.