880 WARTS OF THE LARYNX. fairly extruded, and that no fresh sequestrum is in progress tliere; other- wise hy confining the matter, and so causing swelling and obstruction serious consequences to resiDiration may ensue. Warts of the Larynx. ^ Warty excrescences have sometimes been found growing from the lining membrane of the larynx, at its upper part; and solid enlarge- ments of structure, pendulous, pyriform, and of the nature of polypus, have also occurred, though still more rarely. They necessarily impede respiration; and, by leading to an inflammatory accession, with its at- tendant oedema, they may bring life into sudden and imminent jeopardy The voice is hoarse, and ultimately lost; a hard cough, like that of croup, is troublesome; and during deglutition and expectoration, the sensation is felt of a foreign body in the larynx; but the most characteristic evidences are the expulsion of small portions of the tumour by coughing, and the seeing and feeling its upper part by careful and deep exploration of the fauces. By means of the laryngoscope these warty growths can be easily recognised, and even treated. The old plan for their removal, consisted in seizing them with forceps, introduced by the mouth, when they could be recognised by the finger and easily reached. When this was impossible, laryngotomy has been performed to effect their removal. But the laryngoscope enables the practitioner, versed in its use, to see, secure, and remove the pendulous growth, by means of a Wilde's snare, the parts being rendered par- tially insensible by means of chloroform, or by the preliminary administration of the bromide of ammonium. "When an emergency by dysp- noea occurs, laryngotomy or tracheotomy is h\g. 299. plainly required, Tlirough the wound—made more fi-ee than usual—the growth is removed, by evulsion or knifa And for some days, at least, the use of the tracheotomy tube will be expedient, lest inflammatory swelling occur at the injured part.* Stricture of the Windjjipe. Contraction of this tube is liable to occur, at various points, and from various causes; by contraction of the wound after cut throat; by con- traction after cicatrization of ulcers ; by change of structure following on chronic laryngitis, independent of ulceration ; by necrosis and discharge of portions of cartilage, and consequent narrowing of the passage after closure of the ulcerated cavities. It is doubtful whether our art may be * Fide Monthly Jonrnal, Dec. 1846, p. 458. Fig. 299. Warts in tlic Itiiynx ; growing in the sitnation of the vocal chords.