1252 PAEAPIIYMOSIS. Professor Colles recoinmenclcd the insertion of a liernia-director beneath the constriction, to bo employed as a lever to tilt tlie tight orifice on each aspect over the projecting corona gland is. Compression of tlie whole penis by longitudinal, and then by spiral strips of adhesive plaster, firmly applied, has been recommended and employed with great success by the surgeon of the Children's Hospital at Pesth. Anesthesia is very necessary in all these proceedings. Failing these, or before they are employed—especially if there be no marked urgency—another mode of reduction may be attempted. The penis having been placed erect, a bag of ice is put upon it, or a stream of cold water is directed against it for some time. This has tlie effect, in many instances, of so diminishing the bulk of the formerly turgid part, as to admit of its being replaced without much difficulty within the preputial covering. But should these attempts at simple reduction fail, or should the case be already so far advanced as not to warrant their being practised, incision is required. And little more than a scratch suffices, if rightly placed. The general bulge behind the glans need not be widely laid open; but is separated by means of the fingers, into its two component parts. In the depth between these the constriction is found, as a narrow band or thread ; and that alone requires division. After reduction, the wound seems a mere notch in the preputial verge. If neglected, the glaus may slough, or ulcerate destructively ; or the glans remaining merely con- gested the stricture may cause ulceration of the body of the penis, opening the urethra, and produc- ing urinary fistula. Operating on a case of tliis kind, in a .boy, after the paraphymosis had existed unreduced for three months, I divided a piece of thi'ead which encircled the penis—deeply imbedded in it—and which had been secretly applied as a jugum, to pre- vent punishment on account of enuresis. When paraphymosis and chancres on the glans, or everted mucous lining of the prepuce, co-exist, there is an especial necessity for imme- diate relief; otherwise, acute phageda^na, or sloughing, cannot fail to supervene. In such circumstances the sores must first be thoroughly de- stroyed by means of caustic ; and the section of the constriction should effect complete division of the whole prepuce ; so as to prevent subsequent constriction, and afibrd every facility for after-dressing of the part. It may happen that the constriction has been slight, and of old standuig; and that, in consequence, even after extensive incision on the dorsum of the penis, reduction is found impracticable ; the parts being firmly glued to their .abnormal site • by plastic change. Under these circumstances, we must be content with affording relief to the stricture; completely dividing it by incision ; and leaving restoration of the parts to their normal relative positions to be effected when resolution of the inflam- matory process has become complete. Fig. 348. Paraphymosis ; the dark portion is the lining of the prepuce, reflected ; the preputial orifice, the seat of stricture, is behind, lietwcen the two swellings.