CHAPTEE XLIL AFFECTIONS OF THE UVULA AND TONSILS. (Edema of the Uvula. (Edema of the uvula, with a relaxed state of the neighbouring soft palate, may occur singly; but more frequently it is the result of an im- perfectly resolved inflammatory affection of the whole fauces. There is a feehng of very considerable discomfort in the part; the quality of the voice is altered; articulation is impeded; and not unfrequently a tick- ling and annoying cough exists. The various astringent gargles are of service ; with attention to the general system. Failing these, stimu- lants and astringents may be applied directly to the part, in solution or in powder; as alum, capsicum, tamiin, etc. Or the part may be touched occasionally with the nitrate of silver, or sulphate of copper, in substance or solution. In obstinate cases, it is well that scarification precede the last-named remedies. Elongation of the Uvula. Eelaxation of the uvida, with elongation, is of no unfrequent occur- rence ; the extremity of the organ passing downwards, and by titillation of the glottis and pharynx, causing a very unpleasant and sometimes dis- tressing cough, with a feehng of nausea and even retching. Sometimes the extremity is oedematous and bulbous ; sometimes it is thin and fim- riated. In the slighter cases, ordinary astringents and stimulants may tried. But when elongation is considerable, as regards both extent md duration, there is no suitable remedy but by cutting off the redun- lant part; an operation which has never yet been followed by any un- oward consequences. The patient, seated before a good light, is directed 0 cough, so as to bring the pendulous uvula on the dorsum of the ongue. Then a suitable portion may be at once cut off by the stroke of harp cutting scissors—probe-pointed, lest the patient should prove uu- teady. Or—better—by a volsella or artery forceps the apex is laid old of; and then, by stretching the part, section w*il] be facilitated as ell as rendered more accurate ; care being taken not to stretch until at e in.stant of cutting, otherwise troublesome retching is apt to ensue, omplete extirpation of the uvula has been recommended in such cases, the plea that relapse is otherwise probable. But, oven supposing the r to be justly founded, such a ruthless proceeding is scarcely \var- ntable ; the organ being doubtless endowed with some useful function the general economy. 3 P