EVULSION. 1086 In tlio Ccose of phosphatic formations, large doses of alkalies must prove prejudicial; but doses such, as already mentioned fail to do liarm and at the same time seem to have the effect of favouring gradual dis- integration of the stone, by solution of the animal matter whereby the calculous particles cohere. Further experience in the use of these simple lithontriptics is much to be desired. But it is to be feared that the long-continued use which is essential, and the uncertainty of the issue, will prevent any general employment of, or confidence in them. No doubt, however, they are of much value in a subsidiary place; as means of delaying the increase of uric formations; favouring disintegration of phosphatic calculi—as a prelude to Lithotripsy, for example ; in all cases of stone, improving the state of the urine and of the lining membrane of the bladder, and so mitigating the distressing train of symptoms.* Solvent injections into the bladder have been in use since 1792; with various degrees of expectation. As yet, unfortunately, their suc- cess is far from great; and we can only place them in the same sub- sidiary rank as internal lithontriptics. The agents employed have naturally been alkahes and acids ; the one in uric formations, the other in phosphatic; introduced by means of a syringe operating on a double canula, whereby a constant stream may be kept in play on the calculus within the bladder. The objections are the same as before; delay in treatment, and uncertainty in effect. The acid injections, however, may be not without their ejficacy, as palliatives of the s3anptoms attendant on phosphatic calculus ; employed weak, as correctives ; not strong, as solvents. Of late, the carbonate of lithia has been considered a promising solvent for uric concretions ; and the salts of lead have been proposed, as suitable for injection in the case of the phosphatic. IIL A method of Snaring has sometimes proved successful, in the case of small calculi. It having been observed that, in removing cathe- ters used on account of retention, small calculi were occasionally found entangled in their eyelets, or lodged in the tube—it was thought that in cases of calculus, this, when small, might be so ensnared and withdrawn, M. Bourguenod was the first to adopt the practice; and he met with a few imitators. But success depends evidently too much on chance, and that chance is too remote to admit of the procedure being favourably entertained by the practical surgeon. IV. Forcible Evulsion may be attempted, by the urethra. By the forceps of Cooper, for example, a small stone may be seized and with- drawn. But all such proceedings have been justly superseded by Litho- tripsy. The perquisition was painful and tedious; in seizing the stone, the lining membrane of the bladder was liable to receive injury; and, after seizure, it was not improbable that the attempt at extraction might prove abortive—the stone perhaps becoming impacted in the urethra, and locked at the same time most inconveniently in the jaws of the instrument. V. The Calculus may be Disintegrated by Instruments.—In fulfilment * At all times, however, even the most cautiously sustained use of alkalies must be watched, lest serious injury accrue to the system by its over-saturation witli them. — Vide Lancet, No. 1177, p. 318.