RESULTS OF GONORRIICEA. lUl urethra was due to the existence of an indurated sore (masked chancre) within the canal; 2d, That an indurated chancre existed contempora- neously or antecedently witli the gonorrlioea, either upon the genital organs or elsewhere ; 3d, That the gonorrha3al discharge itself is merely the result of a secondary ailection of the mucous membrane of the urethi-a. In aU such cases, the site of the chronic glandular enlargement, characteristic of the syphilitic infection, will point to the probable site of the originating chancre. Gonorrkcea Pne2)uiiaUs, sometimes termed SjMrious Gonorrhoea, but more correctly Balanitis, or Balano-posthitis, denotes a condition of the preputial membrane and investment of the glans, similar to that of the xu'ethral lining in gonorrhoea. The disease may be an accession to gonorrhoea; or it may occur independently of this, from the same cause. Or it may be altogether simple in its origin ; resulting from accumulation of acrid secretion, or from retention of calculous matter, or from external injury. The part is red, swoln, partially abraded by superficial ulcera- tion, and discharges a jDrofuse puriform secretion. The prepuce is oede- matous ; and there is more or less trouble in micturition. Treatment is simple. An ectrotic result by nitrate of silver is almost always in our power. The glans, having been exposed, is pencilled lightly over by nitrate of silver in substance, or what is better, by a strong solution of it. Within four-and-twenty hours, the intensity of the inflammatory process, and the amount of secretion, will be found greatly diminished. And, very probably, another application will complete the cure. Of course, rest and antiphlogistic regimen are not neglected. Warts are a frequent concomitant of the foregoing affection ; or they may form independently of it. They are usually clustered round the corona glandis, and on the fr£enum. The best method of removing them is to take away the projecting portions by knife or scissors, and then to touch the stools with an escharotic ; the nitrate of silver, firmly applied, may prove sufiiciently powerful; or some one of the other suitable destructives may be used—as bichloride of mercury, dissolved in alcohol, 3i. to 5i.; or equal parts of savine powder and burnt alum, or of desiccated sulphate of iron, dusted by means of a muslin bag or blow-pipe between each of the separate papillse of the warty mass, and renewed as soon as the appUcation becomes moistened by the secretion rendered from the surface—while the glacial acetic acid, which possesses a special solvent power over the albuminous tissues, is sometimes useful when the growths are scattered discretely, like millet seeds, over the parts. The hydrofluoric acid, however, if caustic is to be used, is more potent than any other. By some a strong infusion of tormentilla ofiicinalis is commended. But removal by means of sharp-edged probe-pointed scissors is the most efiScacious of all The bleeding may be copious, but is easily checked by pressure, or by appHcation of the saturated solution of the perchloride of iron. By some a,mild form of urethritis, attended with muco-purulent dis- charge, has been called Gonorrhoea simplex, benigna, or spuria. The sole dLstinction, however, which can be made out is, that the cause can be satisfactorily traced, and that it is not of the nature which is usuaUy calculated to induce enthetic diseases.