i CHAPTEE XVI. AFFECTIONS OF YEINS. Phlebitis. i I By this term is understood the inflammatory process, in its various grades, occurring in venous tissue ; an affection much more common than arteritis. Chronic degeneration of tlie coats, on the other hand, so ; frequent in arteries, is in the veins comparatively rare. Phlehitis may he either idiopathic or traumatic ; the result of injury, or unconnected with any assignahle external cause. But a more im- portant division is into the limited and diffuse, and into the ohstructive and suppvirative. Coats and contents are altered by the morbid process. In the • minor grades, the latter assume the solid form, and become incorporated i "with the coats ; which are thickened and rendered opaque, by plastic : change. In the advanced grade, pus may be formed between the ? thickened coats; constituting abscess there—limited to a spot, or r stripping up the textures diffusedly. Or, if it be granted that the inner r coat has the power of furnishing purulent secretion, this fluid may ," accumulate within the venous tube, constituting what might be termed i venous abscess, the canal being obstructed by consolidation above and ; below ; or it might mingle at once with the passing blood, the veia i remaining pervious. This state of matters, howcA^er, which must not be mistaken for pyoid softening of a fibrinous clot within a vein, is m the present day doubted, and denied by many. The ulcerative stage of the inflammatory process causes perforation, and hemorrhage if the tube be free ; a result not so common as in arterial tissue, and more frequently making its approach from without than from within. The tendency of the inflammatory process when developed in tli' venous tissue to extend rapidly and far by continuity, is not easily ex- plained. At one time it was supposed that, in consequence of tliis, tln^ fatal issue of the more aggravated cases could be accounted for ; tli' aft'ection having reached the right side of the heart, and arrested the all- important function of that organ. But experience has shewn that such is not the case. In the great majority of examples, the inflammatory process has stopped long before the heart has been reached; the coagn- lum usually terminating abruptly, where a cross current flows in upon the main, through a collateral branch. The extent of femoral phlcbiti.-^. for example, is likely to be abruptly limited where the saphena joins : while humeral phlebitis terminates where the cephalic entei's. I. Obstructive Phlebitis.—This is the minor grade of the process;