394 SYMPTOMS OF ANEUEISM. tant practical characteristic ; namely, a formation quite independent of arterial degeneration. In consequence, we have it in our power to deal remedially with the tumour itself; expecting to find the arterial tunics there as sound as at any other part. Symptoms of Idiopathic Aneurism, Circumscribed. This being hy much the most frequent form of aneurism, its symp- toms may be regarded as descriptive of the disease in general. We are also to be understood as mainly referring to aneurisms which are external to the great cavities of the body, and consequently amenable to surgical treatment. There is a swelling, at first small, but gradually increasing; originally soft and quite compressible, the cyst being as yet filled only with fluid blood; ultimately hard, and incapable of being made altogether to recede, its interior having become occupied by a greater or less amount of solid fibri- nous deposit. But however great the diminution, or however complete the disappearance may have been under pressure—so soon as this is removed, there is an immediate and forcible return to the former dimensions. In the tumour thei'e is distinct distensile pulsation from the beginning; appreciable by both sight and touch, but more especially by the latter; synchronous with the heart's impulse; equally felt in all aspects of the tumour ; increased by pressure on the distal side ; diminished, or perhaps wholly arrested, by j)ressure on the cardiac side of the tumour. At each impulse, there is not only elevation of the tumour, but distinct expansion of it at every point. The more firm the pressure applied, the more dis- • tinct the impulse, and the more evident the simultaneous effort of en- • largement. At the same time, a very expressive thrill is imparted to the ? compressing hand; and if the ear be applied, mediately or immediately, , a hruit de soufflet will be heard more or less distinct. The bruit, how- • ever, it is important to remember, is not an infallible indication of the ; presence of aneurism. Pressure on the artery, by the stethoscope, or by ' any tumour, may induce it; and it is also found, when no structural 1 change exists, seeming to depend on an impoverished and deficient state .' of the blood—as in anaemia. It may, however, safely be concluded that ; in all external aneurisms this symptom exists; and, therefore, in any r pulsating tumour where there is no hruit present, a shrewd suspicion that it is not aneurismal should be excited. The tumour's growth is steady; seldom in idiopathic aneurism so rapid as the outward bulging of an abscess ; seldom so tardy as the enlargement of any solid tumour, not malignant. Pain is complained of; not so much on account of structm-al changes in the artery itselt, as in consequence of subsequent interference with the adjoining textures, as the enlarging tumour encroaches on them. And sometimes, in what may be termed acute aneurisms, the suffering is really excruciating. A patient under my care in the hospital, affected with acute inguinal aneurism, expressed himself as enduring constant agony in the thigh and knee ; and urgently demanded relief by operation. This was delayed, m the hope of finding both part and system in a more favourable condition, after suitable treatment. But meanwhile, the poor man, in a mingled