PHLEGMONOUS ERYSIPELAS. 250 are of three kinds. 1. Of a bilious character, as in most examples of the simple form ; preceding and ushering in the local disorder. 2, Inflam- matory fever, during the rise and progress of the inflammatory process. 3. Constitutional irritation; suppuration having formed, and, being diffuse, advancing rapidly in its devtistating progress. The causes are similar to those of the simple form. And in but few cases will sinister atmospheric influence be found wanting. Treatment.—This, in the first instance, must be mainly constitutional, as in the simple form. Emetic, purge, antiphlogistic regimen. Were our object simply to overcome an intense inflammatory process, hastemng on to dire results, we should bleed always. But wo know that, in most cases, the asthenic stage is both early and serious—more especially when the disease is of an epidemic character ; and tliat, in all cases, if the process be not arrested in its very rise, diffuse suppuration is inevitable, and certainly followed by constitutional symptoms tending to the lowest type. Only at the very commencement of the case, then—in patients previously robust, and when the symptoms hitherto have indicated somewhat at least of the sthenic character—is general bleeding advis- able. And even in those cases in which it is expedient, it must be practised with a cautious economy of the "liquid living flesh;" for, as in compound fracture and other severe injuries followed by inflammatory disease, a long day of trial to the system, by debilitating causes, may be fast and surely impending. In the great majority of cases, it is expedi- ent to give iron internally—early and freely. The affected part is placed at rest, elevated, and with its muscles re- laxed. At fijst, the most suitable appKcation is hot fomentation ; and un- der this the inflammatory process may resolve. More commonly, however, it advances as already explained. The skin is tense, and the subcutane- ous tissue is largely occupied with inflammatory product, about to become pus. This is the crisis for action; a period both early and brief The inflammatory product must be j)ermitted to escape; and loss of blood, considerable and direct, is necessary to arrest the advancing process. Pimctures evacuate serum readily enough ; and the loss of blood which they occasion is sufficient to allay an inflammatory process of no great intensity. They are, consequently, very suitable in simple erysipelas; but, for the phlegmonous form, they are altogether insufficient. Here punc- tures are superseded by incisions ; the lancet by the scalpel or bistoury. Tlu'ough the incision the morbid accumulation in the tissues drauis away; while blood is drawn rapidly, and in sufficient quantity to arrest the local disease. And the inflammatory product, comparatively slight, which does continue for a time, has no opportunity to lodge; but at once finds a ready access to escape. This is the true time for incision. Saving disruption and sloughing of subcutaneous tissue, danger to skin, and serious disorder of system; w^hile the system is yet comparatively recent, and just in the act, as it were, of surmounting its suppurative crisis j when the part is tense, red, shining, painful, tlirobbing, and feels like braAvn. At a subsequent period, when suppuration has occurred, and diffuse purulent formation begun, incision is demanded ; with equal, or even greater urgency, But its object is wholly different. Too late to save tissue, and prevent