CHAPTER XXXVII. AFFECTIONS OF THE LIPS. Harelip. This term is applied to congenital fissure of the lip; tlie part, so de- formed, being supposed to liave a resemlilauce to the natural develop- ment of the hare. In general, there is a strong wish, on the part of the parents and friends, to trace the untoward result at birth to some sinister impression made on the mind of the mother during utero-gestation—Avith what success it were more curious than useful to inquire. The affection may be single or double, simple or complicated. Single Harelip consists of a fissure, with a prolabial margin on each side, extending through the whole thickness of the lip, situate on one side of the mesial line, and either partially dividing the lip, or extending completely into the cavity of the nostril. When the affection is both simple and single, there is no other deformity in the mouth ; the hard and soft palates are entire and fully developed, and the gums are normal Deformity is great, however, even in the simplest form; and the func- tions of the parts are also much interfered with. The only remedy is by operation ; making raw the edges by incision, approximating the fissure accurately at every point, and securing imion by adhesion. The prefer- able period for performing tliis operation, probably, is after the child has passed the second year; but the operation has been successfully per- formed, even a few hours after birth. By the end of the second year the trying process of dentition has usually gone by; and there is conse- quently a better tolerance of pain and loss of blood than at an earher period. Also, at this age, the patient, though unruly to its utmost, is yet easily managed and controlled ; and the procedure is manifestly favourable to the due advancement of articulation, and the important educational results which follow. For a like reason as in extirpation of the upper jaw, anaes- thesia is here somewhat hazardous ; yet, with care, it may be employed safely enough—the patient's position being altered, occasionally, so as to obviate the risk of choking by blood. The child, rolled firmly up in a linen sheet—mummy-wise—with its arms by its side, is held on the lap of a nurse or an assistant, and has its head secured between the knees of the surgeon, who is seated on a chair in front of the patient and nurse; or the child is laid on a table, the head resting on a pillow. The free i margin of the lip, on one side of the fissure, is taken hold of by the finger and thumb ; or, better, by means of a pair of artery forceps; the! point piercing the thickness of the lip just within the angle of the pro- labial margin, and putting the part on the stretch in a perpendicular,