TREATMENT OF GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 508 to all appearance the systemic shock, the gradual loss of blood, and the distance the wounded man has been brought, make it probable that tlie injury to the part is the cause of tlie increasing depression, the perform- ance of immediate amputation, without waiting for reaction, should be proceeded with; the patient being brought fully under the influence of chloroform as a preliminary proceeding. Further shock is thus saved, bleeding satisfactorily arrested, and the patient in all respects put in a more favourable condition for a rally tlian he was previously. The mangled limb is thus, by primary amputation, converted into a simple flesh wound; and the dangers of gangrene, high inflammatory fever, and hectic, are removed by anticipation. Certain circumstances are usually understood to render the performance of primary amputation either essential or expedient. 1. When a limb has been carried away, leaving a shattered stump. To refrain from amputa- tion in such a case, were Avillingly to encounter immediate risk by gan- grene ; subsequent danger, by hectic, under a wasting and long pro- tracted suppuration; and certainty of the stump, even when healed, proving unserviceable. 2. When a limb has been struck by shot, and shattered, although not carried away; when bones are broken, blood- vessels and nerves torn, and muscles bruised to disorganization; gangrene is inevitable, and operation imperative. 3. When a mass of the soft parts has been carried away, involving the principal vessels, yet without injury to the bone ; or when, the main vessels remaining entire, the rest of the limb is hopelessly shattered and bruised ; still gangrene is certain, and amputation demanded. 4. When the part is crushed to disorganiza- tion, without wound of the integument; as by a spent shot; a state evidenced by the pulpy, loose feel, coldness, and impaired sensibility of the part. 5. When joints are opened, and the bones composing them broken. This applies specially to the lower limb. In the upper there is a much greater tolerance of injury, as well as power of repair. In both extremities, but especially in the upper, resection of the joint often supersedes the amputation of the limb, when the injury is limited almost exclusively to the articulation. 6. Compound fractures of the thigh, more especially at its upper part, are usually found to proceed nntowardly; and, therefore, the majority of such cases are held to demand primary amputation. However plainly the local injury may render amputation necessary, it is obvious that the oj)eration should not be performed unless there exist a reasonable prospect of success. For example, if a patient be mortally wounded in an internal organ, besides having sustained severe injury of a limb, it were sad surgery to shorten as well as embitter his doomed life by the pain and exhaustion of an operation directed toAvards the lesser evil. Secondary amputation becomes imperative, in the case of a limb which we had hoped to save, when spreading gangrene occurs, when secondary hemorrhage sets in, when the loss of bone by necrosis, or of the soft parts by sloughing, is so extensive as to render consoHdation and the retention of a useful h'mb liopeless, or when the frame is obviously yielding under an otherwise uncontrollable hectic. A scctnid amputation may also be rendered expedient, when the stump which