ACUTE SYNOVITIS. 338 also plastic material is found over the surface of the membrane, as well as in its parenchyma. It is at this stage of the process that adliesion may occur between two opposing portions of the membrane; causing obliteration of some part of the joint's cavity. But this result is of comparatively rare occurrence ; probably for two reasons. First, the pro- cess usually tends rapidly onwards, and soon overpasses the opportu- nity for plastic formations; quickly arriving at the suppurative and ulcerative stage. Second, because the presence of much fluid in the joint is plainly inimical to adhesion; the surfaces being separated Ijy the dis- tfuision. Subsequently, as the suppurative crisis is approached, and also after it has occurred, change of structure increases. The membrane, besides being thickened and changed in itself, becomes incorporated with the plastic material which was formed on the free surface ; and which has assumed a membranous appearance and function. From this, purulent secretion is continued in greater or less quantity. And the con- tents of the joint, at first serous, then sero-purulent, now become wholly of the nature of pus. Throughout the whole period, the super- imposed soft parts have been sympathizing closely ; themselves involved in a minor grade of inflammatory change, and consequently becoming swoln and infiltrated thereby. The symptoms are sufficiently distinct. Pain is early and severe. It is constant; and, gradually increasing in severity, ultimately becomes intense. There is swelling; also gradually on the increase, sometimes becoming great; and, as already stated, its accession is synchronous with that of pain. The swelling is not altogether uniform ; but is much more so than in the chronic form of the affection. The joint naturally be- comes most prominent at those points where there is least resistance; in the knee-joint, for example, bulging is chiefly lateral, and beneath the tendon of the quadriceps muscle. But then such pecuUarities of bulk become very much obscured and masked by general oedematous swelling of the superficial parts. The skin is red, tense, hot, and sensitive. Tlie ' pain is general; pervading the whole part, but greatest in the interior ; much aggravated by pressure, and altogether intolerant of the slightest motion. A position is assumed, naturally, in which the parts affected are most relaxed, and pressure removed from the opposed surfaces. And, besides, as the joint fills with its fluid contents, flexion necessarily occvu-s from a physical cause. EeUef is felt from this posture ; and it is not only assumed but maintained involuntarily. Also, the muscles in the neighbourhood are involved. Their tonicity is increased ; as evinced by firm solidity of the muscular fibre, and rigidity of the tendon. For ex- : ample, when the knee is affected, we find it in a state of semiflexion, with the ham-strings tense and hard as cords. The muscles are liable to spasm also ; whereby involuntary startings of the limb occur, especially ■during the short and uncertain periods of disturbed sleej); and by the jerking motion thereby occasioned, all the symptoms are much aggravated. The constitution labours under inflammatory fever, of a grave kind; which increases with the progress of the local disorder. On suppuration having occfurred, there is marked aggravation of all