DEFICIENCIES OF THE EYEBALL. 728 and liad already produced considerable opacity of both comeae. The mother, naturally of tin anxious temperament, had her every thought engrossed by the state of this child—then an only one. Slie again be- came pregnant j and still persevered in her watchful nursing unweariedly, and, if possible, with an increased solicitude. The second child wae born at the full time. It proved a male, well-formed, and seemingly perfect in every way. But, on opening the eyelids, not a vestige of either eyeball could be found. The lids were perfectly normal in >)oth form and size, but gave no sign of globular projection beneath ; and on open- ing them, red, fleshy, mucous-looking membrane, flat and loose, was found to be the apparently sole occupant of the orbits. As the child grew, the congenital deficiency remained unaltered. The difiiculty, however, in all such cases, is to be certain, without dissection, that no rudimentary organs exist; which, although arrested in their growth, are only hidden by the areolar tissue of the orbit and con- junctiva by which they are surrounded. Still, as dissection has proved that with a well-developed head, not only may there be anophthalmos, but entire absence of the optic nerves as well, there seems no good reason for refusing this example a place in the list of several such cases which have been noticed from time to time. But partial malformation of the globe, or some of its parts, is very much more common than complete absence of the organ. The development of the whole globe may be small in proportion to the general bulk. This is called Microphthalmos. The conjimctiva may consist of a smooth dry inflection of the cutaneous surface, the superficial layer of the cornea being similarly constituted, and no lachrymal secretion moistening the surface. This is called Xerophthalmos. The iris may be absent—a condition designated Irideremia. The absence of the coloured portion of the eye, the ruddy glow from the fundus, the rolling move- ment of the globes, and the golden rim of the lens, will usually attract the attention of the practitioner at an early period to this state of matters. The development of the iris may be imperfect. In coloboma iridis the coalescence of the two halves of the iris remains incomplete. The pupil is, in such cases, of an oval or elongated form, and extends towards the lower margin of the cornea. This may be more or less marked, and usually occurs in both eyes. The position of the pupil, which normally is not accurately central, but a little to the inner side of the centre, may be quite eccentric, near the corneal margin. Sometimes there is a duality in the pupils; and there is then a central as well as an eccentric pupil. When the iris has no pigmentary dejoosit in its textures, it seems from the absence of the uvea to consist of a network of interlacing fibres, through which the ruddy colour of the fundus can be recognised. Such cases occur in persons who have a similar deficiency of colouring matter in the hair and skin, con- stituting the condition of Alhinism. Vision in such cases is usually m- distinct, from the passage of light not only through the pupil, but tlirough the iris as well, interfering with the refraction. The lens may be com- pletely wanting from congenital defect. A case of this kind (complete Hypcrmetropia) in a medical student lately came under my oliservation.