789 FRACTURE OF THE LOWER JAW. Garies and Necrosis of the Lmver Jaw. The lower jaw is liable, like other bones, to these common affections. lUit, in the present day, it suffers much less frequently and extensively in this way, than it did when morcurialization was more in vogue for venereal affections—real and suspected. Many teeth, largo portions of the jaw, and even the greater part of the entire bone, not unfre- ([uently were tediously and painfully discharged, as worm-eaten sequestra; causing much disturbance, both local and general, at the time, and great subsequent deformity. When either of these affections do occur, the general principles of surgery are brought to bear on them; by treatment partly local, partly directed to the system. In removing sequestra and exfoliations of the jaw it is always desirable to reach the dead bone, if possible, by laying open the sinuses which open into the mouth, so as to avoid further cUsfigurement of the face. Any incisions that are made upon the sur- face should be confined to the submaxillary aspect of the base of tlie lione. Necrosis of the lower jaw, from the agency of hypophosphoric and phosphoric acids, generated in the manufacture of lucifer matches, has l)een abeady alluded to, p. 297.* Fracture of the Lower Jaw. The lower jaw may be broken by violence applied either directly or indirectly. Fracture near the middle of the body of the bone may be the result either of a blow delivered on the symphysis, or of injury cUrectly sustained by the part fractured. The base of the bone, at or near the bicuspid teeth, is most frequently injured, but all parts are liable. The fracture may be confined to one side, sometimes it exists in both. The ramus has been fissured, the condyle has been broken off, the coronoid process has been snapt through, and the symphysis itself sometimes, but rarely, gives way. The fracture may be either simple or :ompound, often comminuted. There is always laceration of the gum, with consequent hemorrhage into the mouth, and exposure of the frac- ured ends in that direction, when the fracture occupies the base of the ijone. The signs of the occurrence are sufficiently plain; by deformity, ;repitus, loss of power, and evident displacement. The mental portion •3 usually displaced downwards and inwards, by muscular action and its own weight, while the portion near the angle of the jaw is displaced * Vide also Lancet, Ko. 1367, p. 498. Heyfelder, Ai'cliives Gen. cle Med. 'Jet. 1845, p. 204. Fig. 286. Ulcerative dcstraction of the coronoid process of the lower jaw, caused "the awkward position of the wisdom tooth." The patient "peri.fhcd in conse- I " lice of the extensive abscesses of the mouth and neck,"—LtSTON.