EFFECTS OF BLOOD-LETTING. 44 disease, be administered iii even large quantity during the pei-sistence of that disease, with not only relief to the symptoms, but with comparative impunity to tlie system at large; whereas the same remedy, given even with a sparing hand, while no such call for its employment exists, is likely to affect the constitution injuriously. In some nervous affections, for example, opium has sometimes to be given in large doses ; a tithe of Avhich would fatally poison the person, if in health. In pneumonia, antimony has been given to an extent which would, under other cir- cumstances, be absolutely intolerable. In iritis, synovitis, and certain forms of the venereal disease, in which the use of mercury is not only expedient but essential, that mineral can be pushed with safety ; while it is to the sateless salivations—errors either of judgment or of diagnosis — that the ruin of mercurially-shattered frames is attributable. The Effects of general blood-letting, in so far as they are antiphlo- gistic, are—1. A sedative result on the heart's action, and on the general circulating system; effected partly by withdrawal of its wonted stimulus from the central organ; and partly by the depressing effect of sudden loss of blood on the nervous system, which reacts in a correspond- ing strain upon the circulation. And this sedative effect on both heart and arteries is proportionally indicated, by diminution of the hardness and thrilling of the pulse, as well as of its fulness and frequency. It is plain how such a lidl is advantageous, as regards both the local change and the fever which accompanies it. 2, The blood is diminished in absolute volume. In some cases this is not desirable ; on the contrary, we may be not more anxious to crush the rising inflammatory process, than to husband the vital resources already weakened, and especially to retain this all-important fluid unwasted; we therefore bleed spaiingly if at all. Yet there are cases—as in inflammatory disease occurring during well-marked plethora—in which diminution of the volume of the blood will favour resumed general control of circulation ; at the same time less- ening the probability of sanguineous determination to any indiAddual part. Again : in inflammatory affection of the chest, in connection with wound, while one lung is collapsed, and the other is labouriag with its increased burden, mere diminution of the blood's bulk is obviously, for mechanical reasons, calculated to afford important relief 3. The blood is also materially affected as to its component pai-ts. The red corpuscles and albumen are diminished. And after repeated and extreme bleeding, the fibrin will be found of less quantity ia the blood which remains in circulation. 4. Derivation of blood is eff'ected from other jDarts to that whence the blood issues; the inflamed part pro- bably benefiting in an especial degree. However this is produced— whether according to mechanical or vital laws, or both—microscopical observation, corroborating what had been previously inferred from ex- perience, has established the fact that it does occur. This derivative effect is plainly in favour of rehef to the burdened part. It may be that it is but temporary, ceasing as soon as reaction occurs. Yet, granting such to be the case, still an important advantage has been obtained; inasmuch as even this temporary rehef may bo such as to modify the nutrition of the textures undergoing the inflammatory^ pro- cess, and thus both to check farther cell-proKferatiou, by obstructing