933 DISLOCATION OF THE SHOULDER. lesion of parts is now more extensive still; not only are the muscles inserted into the greater tuberosity torn, hut either the subscapularis is detached from the lesser tuberosity, or the head of the bone penetrates that muscle, traverses the axilla, and becomes lodged between the cora- coid process and the clavicle—a rare injury, constituting the dislocation ' ncards heneath the pectoral mtiscle of Sir A. Cooper and others. Here I he flattening of the shoulder beneath the whole of the acromion is better marked, the arm is abducted, and the elbow carried somewhat backwards, tlie axis of the Kmb corresponding to the middle of the clavicle; and while the head of the bone can easily be distinguished through the pec- toral, it can only be felt from the axilla when the arm is completely abducted from the side, so as to bring it downwards towards the floor of the cavity. This is the 07ily dislocation of the head of the humerus 'ivhere the arm is shortened; and in it, also, the empty glenoid cavity can readily be felt through the deltoid. The subglenoid dislocation—" The dislocatioji doionwards into the axilla" of Sir A. Cooper.—Here the head of the bone passes downwards, extensively lacerating the capsule in front of the long head of the triceps in its lower part, and rests upon the triangular surface of the axillary costa of the bone immediately beneath the glenoid surface. The supra- spinatus is always torn j also the infra-spinatus, subscapularis, and long tendon of the biceps, are often found to have given way. The circumflex nerve is either torn or put upon the stretch, while the head of the bone compresses and stretches the whole of the axillary plexus of nerves. The flattening of the whole subacromial space, abduction of the arm, elongation of the limb, the presence of the head of the bone in the floor of the axilla resting on the costa of the scapula, felt without abducting the arm, render the nature of the accident sufiiciently plain. The abduction is usually considerable ; but the vacant glenoid cavity can- not be felt so distinctly as in the subclavicular form of displacement. The direct injury to the circumflex nerve, and pressure on the axillary vessels and nerves, usually render this form of dislocation more painfnl, and the hand more benumbed and liable to oedema than in the other ; while permanent flattening of the deltoid, from atrophy of the muscles, may result, even when the dislocation has been reduced within a short period after its occurrence. The subacromial and subspinous dislocations. Dislocation backwards, "r on the dorsum of the scapula.—This form of dislocation, although undoubtedly of rare occurrence, has been seen by most surgeons of rge hospital experience. In most instances where it has happened, ' iie patient has fallen upon the arm and shoulder ; or it has been ^•ccasioned by indirect violence, or by powerful muscular contraction ^\hen the arm was abducted from the side and carried forwards. The '■ong support given to the head of the humerus by the tendinous ructures of the supra and infra-spinati muscles, tends to prevent the 'f:currence of this accident, and renders it more rare than the others ■1 ready described. Either the anatomical neck of the bone, or the •loipital groove, may correspond to the posterior margin of the gle- 'id fossa; and in the former case, -the dislocation of the head of bone is subacromial; in the latter, it becomes subspinous. Sii- A.