1164 CONSTITUTIONAL SYPHILIS, it would certainly afford a very simple explanation of the occurrence of the indurated chancre in men who have connection with females in whom nothing capable of inducing contagion can be detected, unless condylomata have this power; and in which cases hitherto, roundabout means of contagion, or supposed falsification, has been the only means of eluding the dilemma. The difficulty, however, recurs that, on the other hand, patients are found to continue for months indulging in sexual intercourse with females who have condylomata of the vulva, and yet escaping scatheless ; while the peculiarity of all such secondary con- tagions is, that the disease is always communicated from the female to the male patient, and never vice versa, except when a man suffering from secondary syphilis impregnates a healthy female, and through the medium of the foetus communicates to her the syphihtic disease—such communica- tion not usually occurring until about the third month of pregnancy. By some it is supposed that this affection is identical with " sibbens which at one time used to prevail much in this country.* The treatment of condyloma consists in repeated applications of sulphate of copper, nitrate of silver, calomel, a weak solution of corrosive sublimate, or mere desiccants and astringents, until the tubercles dis- appear ; in careful attention to the utmost cleanliness; in keeping the opposed surfaces on which they are situated apart from each other, by the interposition of dry lint; and in the use of such constitutional treat- ment as is thought suitable to the syphilitic infection. Constitutional Syphilis. The only means by which the syphihtic poison can enter the system, is, as we have seen, by the occurrence of the indurated chancre. When, then, the induration of the sore is recognizable, no means we can employ will altogether prevent the invasion of secondary symptoms. Local measures, such as excision of the sore, or its destruction by means of caustic, or its forced continuance in the open condition—these all have been tried and found fruitless. Similarly, every variety of constitutional treatment—mercury, iodine, ** decoctions of the woods," nitric acid, pur- gatives, the warm bath—may have an effect in modifying the progress of the disease, but cannot altogether prevent the appearance of the symp- toms. In fact, at the present day, some consider all such treatment as really worse than useless ; for they regard it as only calculated to delay the evolution of the symptoms—conceahng their manifestation; and, when these do make their appearance, tending to render them of a more serious character than naturally they would have been. The great diffi- culty, therefore, now lies in determining with anything like accuracy what the natural history of the development and progress of the syphilitic infection really is, when left to itself, without any treatment to interfere with its spontaneous evolution. That the poison enters the system, and affects every texture to a greater or lesser degree, is undoubted; but how this takes place has not * Skae, Northern Journal of Medicine, April 1844; Gillespie, Edinr. Medical Montlily Journal; Eicord's Lectures on the communicatiou of Syphilis by Vaccina- tion. Translated by Dr. P. H. Watson.