AUXILIARIES TO THE TAXIS. 1017 is it to be attended to. It necessaiily varies, in details, according to the site of the protrusion. Its main object is ever the same ; to relax the parts through which reduction has to be made. In hernia at the groin, as ah-eady stated, it has been thought that elevation of the pelvis, with a hanging position of the recumbent body, has been of nse in exerting an extricating traction on the strictured parts. The most available, and most generally used of these auxiliaries are : —^blood-letting—local in all the inflammatory cases, and general in the few examples which admit of it; the warm bath ; opium ; chloroform ; simple enemata, in large quantity ; perhaps the long tube ; in the chronic and uninflamed cases, always the local application of cold. If the taxis is to succeedj a yielding of the tumour is felt beneath the hands, the con- tents are plainly shifting; then a gurgling noise is heard, denoting replacement of the gaseous contents—always a welcome sound ; and speedily thereafter the solid matters recede, sometimes very gradually, often as it were per saltum. A truss, or suitable compress and bandage, is instantly applied ; the patient is confined to bed, recumbent; antiphlo- gistic regimen is strictly enforced ; after some hours, an enema may be given, if the bowels have not acted spontaneously ; but not till aftei- many hours should even the simplest laxative be given by the mouth, it being weU ascertained that the loop of bowel included in the stricture remains long in a paralytic state, and incapable of obeying the peristaltic stimulus. There is, in short, the same serious objection to purgatives immediately after reduction, as during the existence of strangulation. Should peritonitic or enteritic symptoms threaten, the usual antiplilogistic treatment must be had recourse to, both early and with energy. Not unfrequently, after tight constriction, discharge of blood takes place ^er anum ; this doubtless being furnished by the mucous coat of the lately strangled part, which always suffers sooner and more than the serous and muscular tunics of the intestine. Large hernite are more hopeful of reduction than the small; the inguinal protrusions are more hopeful than the femoral; the congenital hernial protrusion of children rarely resists well-conducted efforts at the taxis. It may happen that under forcible application of the taxis, in a recent hernia, the tumour recedes suddenly, in mass or "ew bloqice" as it is called by French authors. This is not desirable. For, it is not improb- able that the untoward symptoms may continue, quite unchanged ; the reason being, that as the sac and its contents have returned together, with their relations unaltered, the neck of the sac probably continues to constrict the omentum or bowel, as before. In such a case, treat- ment becomes embarrassed. But the safe proceeding most certainly is to expose the abdominal outlet by operation, in search of the yet strangulated bowel; aiding that search by making the patient cough, or otherwise exert himself, so as to favour re-descent of the hernia. An operation under such circumstances is much more promising of success, than gastrotomy on account of an undefined internal obstruction. For in this case the cause of strangulation is plamly in the sac, and that is within reach at a fixed point, the parietal relations of the sac being certain to detain the reduced mass close to the