73i MYOPIA—PRESBYOPIA—HYPERMETROPIA. of potassium, and tlio employment of counter-irritation externally, over the temple, forehead, and mastoid region, a complete restoration of the functions of the affected nerve may be anticipated. When the miiscles affected regain their contractility but slowly. Faradisation, or electro- galvanism, will be found to afford beneficial results. Affections of the accommodative and refractive power of the Glohe. 1. Myopia, or Short-sightedness.—In this the eye is naturally ad- justed for divergent rays ; its refractive power when in a state of repose being too great, or its antero-posterior axis too long, and the focal point of its dioptric system falling in front of the bacillar layer of the retina. Such patients, while they can observe very distinctly the smallest ©bjects close to the eye, can see nothing, or but indistinctly, at a distance; while vision for distant objects is perfectly corrected by means of concave glasses. The ophthalmoscopic inspection, at some dis- tance from the eye, of the fundus of the globe, without the convex lens, displays the reverse image of the retinal vessels and optic disc. The myopic patient should be supplied with spectacles with concave glasses, suited to the degree of his myopia ; stronger for distant, weaker for near objects. 2. Presbyopia.—The adjustment in this affection for distant objects is normal, while the power of accommodation for near objects is dimi- nished. The patient—who is usually above forty—therefore holds small objects away from his eyes, and brings them near a bright light to improve the distinctness of vision. If this change is gradually induced, it must be regarded as normal; accompanying advancing years, and due to the increased firmness of the crystalline lens. When rapidly induced, it is frequently a premonitory symptom of glaucoma. In the former case, convex glasses should be supplied ; in the latter, the intra-ocular pressure should be relieved, and all use of the eyes discouraged. 3. Hypermetropia, Hyperopia, Hyperpreshyopia — " Oversighted- ness."—Here the refractive power of the eye is too low, or the optic axis too short. The globe seems flatter and smaller than in the normal state, and the outer canthus seems too full J^either parallel nor divergent rays are brought to a focus on the retina ; the focal point of the dioptric system falling behind the bacillar layer. The power of accommodation is usually good, while the refractive media are too low in their natural conformation. Vision is feeble, and the eye easily fatigued. By the ophthalmosope we see, without the convex lens, an erect image of the fundus of the eye, in which the optic disc and retinal vessels seem to move in the same direction as the head of the observer. In such cases, convex glasses are required ; one set for reading and inspeetmg near objects ; the other weaker, for distant objects. In selecting these, we should first paralyse the accommodative power by means of atropme.