63 PRESSURE. iiitrnte of silver, as a direct local antiphlogistic ; although it may be, under some circumstances, a very convenient substitute. In red painful swellings of the toes, for instance, often associated with irritable corns ; and in similar affections of the skin at the roots of the finger nails, so common in washer-women—the external use of iodine seldom leaves any thing to be desii-ed. Light use of the nitrate of silver may be also rendered available, in circumscribing the inflammatory process when superficial and disposed to spread—as in erythema and simple erysipelas. It is applied in sub- stance to the sound skm, about two inches from the erythematous border; so as to form a belt, of about an inch in breadth, surrounding the ex- tending redness on all sides ; or opposing it only on that side towards which we particularly wish the disease should not spread. In very many cases—other suitable means being, of course, not neglected—the disease advances up to this line of circumvallation; and, failing to surmount it, becomes arrested within its confines. Care must be taken, however, not to produce vesication by too severe an application; otherwise, the efi"ect will probably be to hurry on extension of the redness, and to favour its transgression of the hmits which were intended to fix its arrest. 2. Nitrate of silver may be applied firmly and long enough to pro- duce vesication. An excellent means of counter-irritation; but plainly inapplicable to affections of the very surface ; as to them it must prove a direct rather than a counter-irritant. The milder form of application cannot be employed too immediately, as regards both time and space ; indeed, the earlier and more direct its use, the more likely it is to prove successful—its effects being at once sedative and antiphlogistic. The higher dose, however, effects a plainly contrary result; as the occurrence of vesication abundantly testifies. Pressure, like cold, may be considered rather as a prophylactic, than as a curative agent in inflammatory affections; if employed early and carefully. Yet even then the result is problematical. It is quite possible that very gentle, accurate, and uniform pressure may be made on a part about to be inflamed, so as to prevent the first vascular change —determination of blood; or, even when that has occurred, it may pre- vent the second—dilatation and distension of the capillaries; and thus the establishment of the vascular element of the inflammatory process may be,^ as it were, mechanically obstructed. But it is much more easy to imagine, that pressure is not so skilfully and successfully conducted; that the texture is accordingly irritated, that determination to and subse- quent distension of the capiUaries do consequently take place, at least in part; that the inflammatory process does begin, the prophylaxis having signally failed ; and that continuance of the pressure then only occasions a worse evil, by creating much tension, and so greatly aggravating the disorder. The time for the safe employment of pressure is after declension of the disease ; change of structure, sponginess of texture from inflammatory product, and congestion only remaining, by reason of resolution being as yet incomplete. Then it is one of our most valued and efficient means ot stimulating absorption, removing inflammatory product, and support- ing the vascular walls. Yet, even then, its use must bo at first cautious ;