675 PURULENT CONJUNCTIVITIS. unsuitable wlieii the sclerotic and cornea are involved; and it is from inattention to tliis that much harm is sometimes done by the careless use of such appliances. In those cases in which amendment is tardy \- fluctuating, it is well to adopt the aid of counter-irritation; which IS best applied by bHstering, behind the ear. Constitutional treatment is not to be neglected during any period of the case; first moderately antiphlogistic, then alterative, and ultimately luic. ^Vhen one eye only is affected, it is well to remember the close vmpathy which exists between the two organs. The unaffected eye, iierefore, should, during the acute stage, be kept equally quiet and shaded from the light, and otherwise treated with prophylactic care. \ Confinement to a dark room is not generally necessary however; and iwhen the case is chronic, free exposure of the organ to the open air ■ will often prove beneficial. Pumlent Conjunctivitis. Purulent ophthalmia seems to be merely an aggravated form of -ycatarrhal conjunctivitis; running its course, however, much more rapidly; «and mainly distinguished from the latter, in its mild form, by the discharge -•jbeing pm-ulent instead of muco-purulent, and from the fact that the eomea is more liable to become involved. When purulent discharge occurs in the simple form, an aggravation of the inflammatory process having been omehow induced, such a circumstance is to be regarded as an accidental .tensity in acute simple conjunctivitis, rather than as an example of e pumlent ophthalmia. Usually, the inflammatory process is from ihe first intense, and suppuration is very speedily attained. The first lymptoms are pain and itching in the palpebral conjunctiva, and often ihere is a sensation as if foreign matter were lodged there. Then the irdinary characters of conjunctivitis appear, in an aggravated form. The aiu is not confined to the eye, but shoots through the head, and not 'equently extends to the face also. The eyeball becomes quickly overed with meshes of enlarged conjimctival vessels; the membrane self is infiltrated and tumid; a profuse purulent secretion is poured jut; the eyehds are swoln, and oedematous, often to a great extent; dinarily, the eyeball is concealed by the tumid lids; on opening them rcihly, purulent matter escapes in increased quantity, and eversion is 't to ensue—the engorged and red conjunctiva becoming exposed. As the disease advances, the conjunctival lining of the eyelids, more ipecially of the upper, changes from the uniform, vascular, and villous pearance, to one of more irregularity, as if granulating. The con- uctiva is then said to be granular. Tliis term, however, does not ply that the membrane becomes actually studded with true granula- ; the fleshy elevations being developments of the natural papillte d foUicles. These continue to furnish a profuse discharge; and the ction of them over the ocular conjunctiva doubtless maintains the 'neral morbid condition. The ocular conjunctiva, it has been already said, undergoes change structure. Sero-fibrinous product and extravasation collect both in