1103 THE HIGH OPERATION. cutting througli the rectum, and tlience reaching the posterior part of the bladder uncovered by peritoneum, loss hazard would be incurred of peri- tonitis, hemorrhage, or infiltration. But the misery and even danger of a foul ffecal fistula remaining, was found by much to outweigh the sup- posed safety of the procedure. Under certain circumstances, however, such an operation may be thi'ust upon us ; as in the case narrated by Mr. Listen, where a large stone was found encysted in the posterior part of the bladder, and bulging into the rectum. In that case, after the ordinary opening had been made into the bladder, it was found im- possible to dislodge the stone without division of the anterior wall of the cyst; and that could not be accomplished, without incising the cor- responding portion of bowel. Then the stone was readily extruded.* Eecently this operation has been revived ; silver sutures being employed to bring the edges of the incision into accurate apposition (a,s in vesico- vaginal fistula) with the view of obtaining union by the first intention. The High Operation.—When a stone is deemed too large to pass with safety through the outlet of the pelvis by the perineum, it is to be sought for above the pubes. By a blunt staff, introduced along the urethra, the fundus of the bladder is elevated as much as possible in the pelvis, so as to enlarge the space uncovered by peritoneum on the lower and anterior aspect. A suitable wound is made through the abdominal parietes ; entering the knife immediately above the symphysis pubis, and carrying it upwards as far as seems necessary ; cutting layer after layer, cautiously, until the vesical coats are reached, and secured in contact with the external incision by means of a sharp hook. The coats of the bladder are punctured at the lowest part of the wound; and, the finger hav- ing been introduced into the viscus, the aperture is enlarged to the requisite extent. The stone is seized by forceps, and removed. The wound is brought together, having a short tube—or a slip of lint, syphon-like—at the lower part, by which the urine may pass readily away, and infiltration be avoided. To aid in this indication, the patient is laid on his side; and per- haps a flexible catheter may also be passed by the urethra, and retained. But with every care, it is difficult to prevent this grave accident—so Hkely to occur from the non-dependent nature of the wound. And, consequently, the results of this operation are not found to be very encouraging. Eecently, an important modification has been suggested; the pre- mising of a perineal puncture ; a track, of wound resembling that of lateral lithotomy, but on a smaller scale ; the internal opening implicat- ing the membranous portion of the urethra only. Through this puncture the elevating blunt staff is introduced, and may be worked more effi- ciently than from the urethra. After removal of the stone, a common lithotomy tube occupies the place of the staff in the perineal wound, and is retained for some days, the urine passing readily through it—the patient's trunk being slightly raised to assist in this. The supra-pubal wound is brought accurately together throughout its whole extent, by silver sutures, and union by the first intention hoped for. And thus the operation may be not only simphfied in performance, but also the great danger by infiltration may be effectually avoided. Ldthectasy.—Another recent proposal is the substitution of lithectasy * Liston's Principles of Surgery, 2d edition, p. 657.