1026 KA.1)ICAL CUKE. The intermuscular furm is not likely to be mistaken for anything, ex- cept, indoed, a I'omoral herjiia wliicli has turned upwards, and lies along the line of Poupart's ligament. In the ordinary oblique scrotal heniia, the testicle occupies the lower part of the swelling. In the inlantile it holds the same position; but in the congenital, the position of the testis is as in a case of hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. When an oblique hernial protrusion has existed since childhood, the inference that it is of the congenital variety is usually justified, especially if it exists upon both sides. As we have already said, however, the con- genital variety may occur in the adult or adolescent, although protrusion have never taken place In early life. To reduce the oblique form of inguinal hernia, the pressure of the taxis is apphed obliquely upwards and outwards, in the direction of the inguinal canal. In large tumours of old standing, however, it must be remembered that the canal becomes shortened as well as more direct—the two apertures coming to be ahnost opposite to each other; and this is attended to in the taxis. In order to relax Poupart's ligament and the abdominal parietes, the patient is laid recumbent, with the trunk raised, and the thighs flexed and approximated. Radical Cure of Oblique Inguinal Hernia.—Various methods have at different times been resorted to with the view of attaining this very desirable end. Till recently, however, none of the measures, however much vaunted they might be for a time, secured the good will of the profession, except the employment of a well fitting truss in the case of herniee occurring in young children. In some cases, accordingly, at the present day, every indication will still be fulfilled by this simple apparatus. The results which it is desired to secure by such use of the truss are twofold—\st. Support applied so accurately and constantly at the internal abdominal ring as to prevent protrusion, and admit of the gradual spontaneous closure of that aperture by the muscular and fibrous textures which surround it. 2d. To efibct such pressure upon the inguinal canal as shall occlude the serous sac and consolidate the parts. These indications have been secured by different mechanical contriv- ances ; of which L'Estrange's truss—or the oval boxwood truss, with powerful spring, as originally recommended by Eichter, and latterly much employed by American surgeons—or the common cork pad, so modelled as to effect pressure upon the whole canal, but chiefly upon the internal abdominal ring—may be mentioned as having afforded the best results. The period during which the truss requires to be worn is considerable— ranging from one to three or more years. There is, however, the risk that such pressure upon the cord continued for so long a time, especially if the same system is attempted to be carried out in the case of the adolescent or adult, may endanger the function of the testicle, or set up inflammatory changes in the inguinal canal. Yet a happy result may accrue even from this. Thus, we have seen an abscess form under the pressure of a galling pad, point, discharge, contract, and heal, and so consolidate the outlet by the extent and situation of plastic product, as to render the further use of the truss quite unnecessarj\ To eifect the