AFFECTIONS OF THE MEMBRANA TYMPANI. 830 then, if tho Eustachian tube is not obstructed, the rigid condition is present; on the contrary, sliould it bulge around the liandle of the malleus, then diagnosis of the flaccid condition of the membrane is established. AVliere, however, there is much thickening, these condi- tions cannot bo recognised. In some cases of relaxed membrane, the inflation of the tympanum relieves the deafness, which again recurs so soon as the escape of the air, or its absorption, admits of the collapse of the membrane being reproduced. In cases presenting these symptoms, and when every trace of con- gestion of the membrane is gone, when the affection has been going on for a considerable period, and when the deafness is well marked—imless other symptoms are present pointing to deeper-seated change—there is hardly any use of subjecting the patient to the annoyance of treatment. But when the symptoms are recent and crescent, especially when follow- ing upon an acute attack—mercurials, iodide of potassium, and colchicum, with blistering behind the ear, will be found to be attended with, very satisfactory efi'ects. In some cases, painting the thickened membrane with a solution of nitrate of silver (ten grains to the ounce), or with th tincture of iodine—or applying the red precipitate or citrine ointmen suitably diluted with glycerine—will be found to improve its transpai- ency and mobility. When well-marked relaxation of the membrane is present, the appli-" cation of collodion to its surface has sometimes, by the puckering produced, appeared temporarily to alford support to the malleus, and thus to improve the hearing ; this, however, should not be resorted to until all symptoms of an inflammatory kind have been subdued, many of these cases where chronic changes aifect the membrane, th hardness of hearing is much greater than the apparent disease could count for. Changes in the cavity of the tympanum, and of the mom' brane occupying the fenestra rotunda and fenestra ovaHs—or anchylo of the ossicles, more particularly of the stapes—^must then be held in probability to be present. Ulceration of the memhrana tympani.—This may only lay bare th fibrous laminae, but more commonly it implicates them in the desti-uctiv process, either leaving the mucous membrane of the tympanic cavi entire at the site of the ulceration, or perforating it also. The pariB affected is usually the anterior inferior part, or clear spot. If seen whilel the ulceration is in progress, a discharge from the meatus, accompaniedd with more or less decided symptoms of the inflammatory process, marl the progress of this affection. Cleanliness, the occasional use of a solu-' tion of nitrate of silver or of its powder applied to the ulcerated surface,: and the use of iron, quinine, or mercurials, internally, according to cumstances, with the employment of counter-irritation beliiud the ear, constitute the essentials of treatment. Perforation of the memhrana tympani may arise from ulceration o\ the membrane from without, or from pointing of an abscess withm; following injuries directly inflicted, or constituting a portion of a more serious lesion of the base of the skull. When the opening is a slit or rent produced by injury without losf of texture, it usually heals spontaneously, and tlie part is restored to, oi