1051 rKOIAPSUS ANT. as in the partial prolapsus—to a swelling as large as a child's head. The membrane, if habitually doAvn and exposed, changes more and more to the cuticular character ; much discharge takes place, of a reddish jelly- looking substance; inflammatory aggravations are liable to occur, causing much increase of distress; and, at any time, the existence of descent is accompanied with painful uneasiness in the part, and an oppressive gene- ral languor and debihty—at least in the adult. In the cliild, the affection may generally be removed by riddance of its cause. At the same time care is taken to replace the protrusion after each descent; the bowels are duly regulated, and evacuation should always be effected, if possible, in the recumbent posture ; at all events, the child should not be permitted to sit long upon the stool; and efforts at strammg should be diminished, by the height of the seat being such as to prevent the feet from touching the floor; crying should be avoided as much as possible; astringents may be used both outwardly and within Fig. 319. —that is, in the form of lotion, ointment, injection, or suppository ; and iron or other tonics, with strychnine or nux vomica, are usually indicated, on account of laxity of the general system. If protrusion have been neglected, and have attained a large size and globular form, some difficulty may be experienced in effecting replacement. Pressure is applied, as in the taxis for hernia; the parts having been previously lubricated without. And it is well to make the reducing pressure chiefly during the straining or crying efforts of the patient, the verge of the anus then presenting a fixed point on which the reduction may be made. If the protruded part be found constricted, inflaming, and swoln, it is better not at once to attempt reduction; but, in the first instance, to diminish the bulk and excitement, by leeching, rest, and ordinary antiphlogistic means. In some cases, however, when the venous congestion, and the temperature and colour of the protrusion, indicate that sloughing is threatened, the sphincter should be divided by incision, so as to secure the patient from further delay in the relief of strangulation. Fig. 319. Prolapsus Ani.