TUBERCULAR ERUPTIONS. 1173 very unsightly eruption. It is a late symptom, merging into the tertiary type, and accompanying affections of the bones, testes, and areolar tissue. Eupia rarely occurs except in ill-nourished and feeble systems. TUBEECULAE. These, like the papula, consist of solid elevations formed by thicken- ings of the tissue of true skin. They differ, however, from them in being of a much larger size, in the greater thickness of the cutaneous texture engaged in their formation, in their tendency to ulcerate, and in the late period of their appearance. There are tubercles, however, which belong to two different periods in the history of the syphilitic infection :—1. Those which terminate in desquamative changes and resolution ; 2. Those which terminate in ulceration. Those which belong to the first class are hke small shot, peas, or lentils; sometimes, however, attaining the size of a cherry. They usually appear after the occurrence of one or more of the earlier cutaneous erup- tions ; but may, after mercurial treatment, employed from the period of the existence of the indurated chancre, form the earliest cutaneous mani- festation of the syphilitic infection. They may be sparsely scattered over the surface, or grouped circularly around a centre of healthy integu- ment The circle is sometimes continuous, sometimes broken; or two or more circles may coalesce and form an irregular figure. Sometimes they cluster together in masses resembling a mulberry. They occur most frequently upon the face, trunk, and upper extremities; but may appear on any part of the surface. They are usually of a ruddy or violaceous tint. Sometimes, however, they are pale, and exactly like the surrounding integument. The surface is usually tense and shining, tending to desquamate or even to form scabs. In the circinate variety, the spontaneous scaling and resolution of one crop of such tubercles is commonly followed by a fresh crop appearing external to and continuous with the former, the outline of the tubercular formation becoming thus gi'adually wider and wider. 2. Tubercles which terminate in ulceration. These usually form elevated masses or patches of a dusky red or violaceous colour, and of a rounded, oval, or irregularly circular form. The ulceration may com- mence at an early period of their progress, or be delayed till the tubercle has attained some development. The surface of the tubercle usually first desquamates, and then ulceration commences beneath the detached layers of cuticle. In other cases the ulceration commences in that por- tion of the diseased texture which was first afiected, i. e., the central. In other cases, again, the destructive process begins deeply, and not only destroys the thickness of the skin but penetrates determinedly; as in some instances where the alee of the nose are thus removed or per- forated. The surface where the ulceration is progressing usually possesses the character of a serpiginous sore ; cicatrization following closely upon the progressive advance of the ulceration. In some cases the surface is covered by a thin crust; in others, the crust is thick, and the formation of matter very copious. The form and progress of these tubercles, except