216 PRESSUllE. end—supplies its place ; laid in immediate contact with the arterial orifice, - Over this, another and another—each increased in size—are rapidly ap- plied, till the wound has become filled with a graduated compress ; of a conical form ; its apex in contact with tlic arterial wound, the base pro- jecting a little beyond the level of the surrounding integument; the whole fitting and filling the wound in every part. This accurately fitted compressing agent is then retained in its place, by continuation of the bandage upwards ; and the degree of pressure is regulated, by the tight- ness with which the roller is drawn. The whole surface of the wound is compressed somewhat; but the main pressure is concentrated directly on the bleeding point. If the dressing remain dry and unstained by blood from beneatli, it is a sign that the application is effectual; and it is left undisturbed. If, on the contrary, blood soon appear, and trickle through, the whole must instantly be undone, and re-applied more carefully, lilood, having oozed through the dressing, must have previously collected in the wound ; coagulation has taken place there; and the interposition of a clot, be- tween the compress and the bleeding point, renders pressure inaccarate, and consequently ineffectual. The dressing, when satisfactory in its immediate result, is retained for three or four days ; unmoved and unabated. Then the apparatus i.s undone, and re-applied more lightly than before ; and, having been retained for several days more, it may then be wholly discontinued. In re-application, it is well not to interfere with the deep part of tlie com- press ; if (Ivy, accurately applied, and adherent. And, after pressure has been wholly removed, the deep part of the compress should not be taken out by forceps or fingers ; but should be permitted to come away, loosened by the discharge. The less the advancing occlusion by plastic change is disturbed, the better. The pressure may be likened to Nature's temporary hemostatics ; restraining the flow, temporarily, by the inter- vention of mechanical obstacles; till time and opportunity are afforded, sufficient for permanent occlusion by organized new material. In the case of slight wound of a large vessel, pressure may be so regulated as to eflect occlusion of the arterial wound only; leaving the arterial tube pervious as before. But, as formerly stated, this is not only an unnecessary but a dangerous refinement in surgery; not unlikely to favour aneurismal formation. It is easier, safer, and altogether more advisable—should it be thought prudent to trust to pressure at all—to apply it so forcibly as to obhterate the arterial canal at that point; not only temporarily but for ever. Pressure may be applied indirectly and temporarily; mth the view of restraining hemorrhage, until the necessary means have been adopted for securing the bleeding points. Thus, in copious hemorrhage from a wound of the leg, it is advisable to compress the femoral, until direct hemostatics have been completed. For this purpose, the fingei-s or thumb of an assistant can be employed; and these are the best compres- sing agents, when steady and exact. Or a mechanical substitute, acting in a similar way, may be used; consisting of a strong steel spring, fur- nished with a pad at either extremity; one of which pads is applied accurately over the arterial trunk, the other resting on the opposite part ;