1075 RENAL CALCULI. to be Vesical; originating in the urethra, or arrested there in its passage outwards from the bladder, it is said to be Urethral; formed in the pros- tatic ducts, it is said to be Prostatic. Stone is most common in temperate climates, and in early years ; of adults, the old are more frequently attacked than the young. The sedentary are more liable than the active, the luxurious than the temperate, the males than the females. Cer- tain districts are remarkably prolific in stone : Norfolk, for example, and the east coast of Scotland. The disease is doubtless hereditary, like its kindred affection, gout; and this cir- cumstance may obviously be made somewhat subservient to the explanation of prevalence in certain localities. Frequency of occurrence leads to skilful practitioners and the flocking of patients; the patients recover, and raise a breed of men of like tendencies with them- selves. Where the disease is rare, on the other hand, the treatment is less skilful; the af- fected migrate, and the chance of reproduction from those who remain is but slight. Injuries of the spine obviously favour alkaline formations; causing perversion of function in the kidney, and in the lining membrane of the bladder, with want of expulsion or self-cleansing power in the latter viscus. An injury done to the kidney itseK also favours stone ; by dis^ - ordering secretion, and at the same time furnishing coagula as nuclei for the formation. Long-continued strictures, and affection of the prostate, are obviously predisposing causes ; deteriorating the secretion of urine— through disorder of the general health, and prolongation of irritation from the original seat of disease, upwards to the kidney ; at the same time opposing satisfactory expulsion of the bladder's contents. Some children seem born with stone ; afflicted with congenital calculous diathesis. The treatment of calculous disease plainly resolves itself into the fol- lowing indications :—1. To prevent the formation of stone, by correction of the calculous diathesis. 2. To favour spontaneous expulsion of the stone, when formed. 3. To diminish suffering, and delay progress of the disease. 4. To remove the stone by operation, when circumstances are favourable. 5. Unfortunately we are not yet warranted in filling up as a fifth indication, removal of the stone by lithontriptics, or other means independent of operative interference. Renal Calculi Eenal Calculi at first consist either of uric acid, or of oxalate of lime ; most frequently the former. Particles cohere, either simply to each other, or round a nucleus of blood-clot, fibrin, or other animal substance. And a beginning having been made, however slight, addition speedily takes place, provided the calculous diathesis continue—as is not unlikely, seeing Fig. 330. Section of an alternating calculus ; chiefly composed of uric acid.