722 SOLUTION AND DRILLING. this operation, has been attributed to the blunt character of the instru- ment witli wliich the displacement of the lens is effected. The operation to promote absorption, or solution of the lens, is prac- tised when the lens is of fluid or soft consistence, or Avhen, from the symptoms, we know that the vitreous humour is soft, the iris adherent to the capsule, or the case otherwise unsuited for extraction. But by means of this operation any lens may be gradually removed, whether hard or soft. The procedure is simple, safe, and easily performed, but generally requires repetition; and the result is tardy and may he uncertain. The object is, to admit the aqueous humour to a free and general contact with the substance of the lens—a circumstance which experience has shewn to be conducive to its absorption or solution. The operation is performed by means of a needle introduced through the cornea, close to its sclerotic margin. Its point, having reached the pupil, in front of the lens, is made to divide the centre of the capsule by a crucial scratch, and then by a shght rotating motion to break up the lenticular substance. If the lens be fluid, no division of its substance is necessary; it escapes at once like a jet of milky fluid into the aqueous humour, on its capsule being opened, while the crucial I flaps of the capsule curl up and retract, leaving a clear pupil '\^1len of soft consistence, a few of the fragments often find their own way into the anterior chamber. Care must be taken, however, not to attempt too much at one time, especially not to dislodge the lens forward in a mass, or in bulky fragments j otherwise an untoward inflammatory process is sure to occur, in the iris and other parts, from pressure of the lens upon them ; and absorption is checked so long as this continues. At the first operation, the lens is divided but slightly. Many deem it sufficient to cut up the capsule only; and certainly it is well not to attempt any displacement. "When the operation, however, requires to be repeated, the lens may be more freely broken up. From a few weeks, to two or three months, should be allowed to intervene between the opera- tions ; and after each, ordinary antiphlogistic precautions are to be adopted. In congenital cataracts, one such operation usually proves sufficient. When sickness and vomiting come on after the escape of ^ the contents of the capsule of a fluid cataract, paracentesis of the aqueous i humour should be practised, with a larger section than is usually re-.» quired; after which the symptoms will abate. A modification of this operation, called drilling, is suitable where the 3 lens is very hard, but where, for other reasons, solution is preferred to • extraction. A needle is entered in the same manner near the corneal margin, and passed through the centre of the pupil into the substance of the lens. Ha-^ang penetrated into this, to the extent of about a sixteenth: of an inch, it is rotated a few times, and carefuUy withdrawn. The pro- 1 ceeding is repeated from time to time, as in the breaking up; on each occasion that portion of the lens close to the former operation bemgi chosen as the site of puncture. The object is to admit the aqueous humour; and, by its agency on the lens, gradual absorption of that body takes place. In any case, wliile absorption is going on, the pupil slioulu. be kept dilated with atropine. Sometimes, but rai-ely, this dilatation, continues permanent, while vision is unimpaired.