TREATMENT OF NECROSIS. 308 raatory process and final extrusion of the small sequesti-um. In more extensive examples, by weeks or months we will prove more ready reckoners of tlic time. Wlien the whole thickness of a hone has perished, to some considerable extent, many months may be, and usually are, con- sumed, ere the bone has been got away; and at least an equal terxn may be required ere, subsequently to that event, the limb resumes even an approach to its pristine form and function. In the young and othermse healthy, progress will be more rapid than in tl>e aged and infirm ; and much Avill also depend upon treatment. If inflammatory re-accessions have been either directly induced, or not sufficiently provided against, the term of cure may be protracted almost indefinitely. In spongy bones too, the process is ordinarily more rapid than in dense ; the former being more vascular, and better capable of energetic effort. Also the bones of the superior extremity have an advantage, in this respect, over those of the lower. Treatment—Again, prevention is to be considered paramount. Treat the preliminary ostitis, with energy yet warily; in order that it may be arrested in its progress, ere any destructive result has yet begun. When suppuration has taken place, and the doomed portion or portions of bone are dead or dying, our object is a minor one ; to mitigate symptoms, pre- vent extension of evil already incurred, and favour the advancement of repair. The first, and not the least important indication to be fulfilled, is early and efficient evacuation of the purulent formation which bathes the inflamed bone, and has detached it from its periosteum. Some con- siderable time must be unprofitably consumed, ere pus can work out its own discharge, through the periosteum and other unfavourably investing tissues ; meanwhile the patient's sufferings will have been great, and aggravation of the original evil not inconsiderable. Time, texture, and torture may be all saved, by an early, free, and direct incision; which, accordingly, should invariably be practised, so soon as the indications of suppuration are sufficiently manifest. Detachment of the sequestrum we commit entirely to Nature; con- tenting ourselves with overlooking her operation; and taking especial care that she shall not be interrupted. With this latter object in view, the part is kept quiet, used as little as possible, and not put in the way of external violence. By some, exercise of the affected part is enjoined, with a view to expedite separation of the dead portion, when that seems to be unreasonably slow. But the practice seems fraught with danger, as regards the risk of fi^acture, deformity, or at least aggravation and extension of the disease, by inducing inflammatory reaccession. Should this at any time threaten, leeches, fomentation, absolute repose, and general antiphlogistics if need be, are at once employed with a view to its speedy arrest. On this account also, during the chronic stage, when perhaps purulent secretion is great, and hectic is either thi-eatened or fully developed, and when consequently we are anxious to support the system in its difficulties—that support must be prudently conducted, and made to vary from time to time, as circumstances may demand. When the sequestrum has become wholly detached from the living bone, by completion of the sulcus in the margin of the latter, Natures exclusive work is over ; and it is then usually our cue to interfere.