EXTIKPATION OF THE EYEBALL. 727 the globe has been effected, and to tlio naked eye tlie optic nerve appears quite sound, the microscope often shews the existence of cancer cells in the connective tissue of the neurilemma of the nerve. Extirpation of the Eijehall. This operation may be required on account of disease in the globe irritating the sound eye; tumour of the eyeball; tumour of the orbit, involving the globe secondarily; cancerous ulceration of the eyelids, involving the globe, or implicating the eyelids extensively—as formerly explained. If the globe and contents of the orbit are to be removed, the commis- sure of the eyelids having been divided, at the outer angle, so as to afford space, the mass is laid hold of by a volsella ; and by this instrument it is steadied and directed throughout the remainder of the procedure. By means of cm-ved scissors with probe points, the globe's muscles, and so much of the contents of the orbit as may seem desirable, are suc- cessively divided; last of all, the optic nerve is cut across, and the mass withdrawn. If the lachrymal gland have escaped the general clear- ance, it may be seized by the forceps and dipt away ; but this is not ab- solutely necessary. If the globe alone is to be removed, which usually is all that is wanted, we proceed as in the operation for strabismus ; dividing the conjunctiva over the internal rectus, and passing the squint-hook beneath the tendon, which is cut through. The insertion of it may then be seized in the teeth of a j)air of artery forceps, and confided to an assistant to steady the globe, while the operator divides each tendon along with the superjacent conjunctiva in turn, till at length the globe starts from its socket. The optic nerve is last of all cut through by means of a pair of curved blunt-pointed scissors made for the purpose ; and the eyeball is thus excised, leaving the other contents of the orbit intact. Having become satisfied of the entire removal of the diseased structure, the cavity is sponged clear of blood ; dossils of dry lint or charpie are placed so as to fill the orbit and project somewhat beyond the margin, and a retaining bandage is passed around, with sufficient firmness to arrest Irterial bleeding. After a few days, the dressing is gradually undone and emoved; suppuration is established; granulation succeeds; and the ;ranulating wound is to be treated in the ordinary way. Where, how- ver, the globe alone has been removed, and the bleeding ceases sponta- leously, or can be arrested by a single ligature, the conjunctiva may be aid down, or approximated by points of silk suture ; union of it by the irst'intention occurs, and the healing process is thus hastened, rendering he operation comparatively simple and devoid of risk. After cicatriza- ion, an artificial eye may be adapted to the socket. Congenital Deficiencies oj the Eyeball—Gomplete and Partial. I An interesting example of Anophthalmos, or a complete deficiency, kcurred to me some years ago. A girl, strumous, and of strumous parentage, laboured under conjunctivitis, which proved'very obstinate,