545 TREATMENT OF COMPOUND FllACTUllE. inflammatory process be averted, the wound closes at once; and rejDara- tion of the fracture advances in the same way as in the simple form of injury. But when suppuration has become ostabhshed—as it is certain to be in almost all the ctises of severity—the work of repair is altogether delayed, until the inflammatory process shall have abated. The union then is by the second intention, as in flesh wounds. The breach in the soit parts granulates and contracts, discharge gradually diminishing. And at the same time the bone and textures around furnish plastic matter, which, becoming organized and ossified, effects reparation of the fracture j more slowly, and usually less efiiciently, than when no suppuration has occurred; yet, when the primary destruction of the bone by the force of injury, and the secondary necrosis, by diminished vitality and the access of the inflammatory process, has not destroyed a considerable extent of bone—well enough to restore strength and general usefulness to the part. The surgeon's fii-st care is, to ascertain whether any attempt should be made to save the limb. In the slighter cases, there is no difficulty; but in those of severity and complication, much careful and anxious thought, tempered by reference to past experience, is often required, ere a just determination can be attained. In all cases of what may be termed decided doubt, it seems but reasonable that the limb should have the benefit of that doubt; and that, therefore, adjustment and retention may be instituted immediately, with a view to a tedious yet ultimate cure. When, on the contrary, we are satisfied, both from the appearance of the parts, and from our experience of similar cases, that a cure cannot be procured with the limb retained; that amputation must be performed, sooner or later, either on account of gangrene, or in consequence of the system's yielding under the hectic of a protracted and profuse discharge, the operation should be at once performed, to anticipate all such cer- tain evils—so soon as the shock of injury shall have sufiiciently passed away, and before inflammatory accession shall have begun. It is not easy to lay down definite rules for guidance in regard to such primary amputations. But the following circumstances may be •safely stated as rendering amputation the more prudent course to adopt. Extensive comminution of the bone, fissuring of the shaft, and impaction f fragments in the medulla; or fracture at several points, or of other bones of the same limb ; extension of the fracture into an important articulation; an open state of the joint; much bruising and laceration "f the soft i)arts, rendering extensive sloughing inevitable, with a risk of gangrene invading the whole limb, and with a certainty of extensive and tedious suppuration following separation of the sloughs ; laceration f a large artery, as evidenced either by hemorrhage, or by rapid forma- tion of a large, bloody swelUng ; old age ; and enfeeblement of the frame |jy_disease, privation, intemperate habits, or other cause. In most cases 't IS rather the amount of injury sustained by the soft textures, than by le bone itself, which decides us in resorting to primary amputation in ^ises of compound fracture. It should be remembered, however, that |c nature^of the agent inflicting the injury should always be taken into ';count. Thus, however trifling the injury of soft and hard parts may ^'pparently be, where a railway carriage or truck has passed over the I'n ), or wliere a broatl-wheeled and heavily loaded waggon, in contru- 2 N