477 TKEATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS. In some situations, as a"bout the nose, neither plasters nor the twisted suture can he used as retentive means. Then, as few points as possible of the common interrupted suture are to be inserted; and they should all be cut out, so soon as the progress of adhesion has rendered their re- tentive influence no longer absolutely necessary. Now-a-days, indeed, the common metallic stitches often supersede the twisted suture, even in hai-ehp. There are certain wounds—as in the case of lacerated perineum—in regard to Avhich often the Quilled suture is the preferable means of reten- tion. And, indeed, in any part, the circumstances of a wound may make recourse to this form of suture expedient. For the whole tract is, in every point, placed and maintained in accurate contact. Metallic ligatures are passed, as in the interrupted suture ; but instead of being secured in the ordinary way, the ends on each side of the wound are tied on a quill or portion of bougie, which is thus made to press the parts into apposition. The wire suture without the quill has, however, been found more manageable and quite as effectual in the treatment of many wounds in which the quilled suture was formerly deemed indispensable. The Continued, or Glovers^ suture, is made by a fine needle, as if on a piece of hnen. It is seldom employed but in the case of slight wound of the intestine. Other instances of wound, in which the general rules of treatment must be either varied or transgressed, will occasionally occur in practice; and the peculiar circumstances of each case will regulate the surgeon as to the treatment to be adopted. But even to them, this general rule wiU be found applicable :—The less their management varies from the principles inculcated in the preceding pages—more particularly the all- important maxim of simplicity—the more likely will it be to prove suitable and efficient. On wounds made designedly, for Surgical ends, the principles of cure have an important bearing. In tlie great majority of cases, it is our ob- ject that the wound shall heal in the most favourable way—by adhesion. Accordingly, the wound should be planned and made so as most to favour that occurrence. The knife used should have a keen edge, and he worked with little pressure ; cutting with a sawing motion, rather than with a thrust; the object being to make a clean and smooth cut, devoid of bruise or laceration. ISTeither is the cut to be made across the muscular fibres, but in a line parallel with their course ; otherwise the wound will gape, and, even with force, approximation of the edges may he uncertain. By following the contrary practice, on the other hand, mere relaxation of the part will often be sufficient for the requisite ap- position. "When the incisions are made for removal of a diseased or injured part of the body, we endeavour to save as much of the external parts, more especially of the integument, as will admit of easy closure oi the chasm. And, when the wound is deep, we make its external part more extensive than the internal; in order that the secretions, which must form to a greater or less extent, may have free exit; so avoiding mention of these, separation of the wound's edges, obstruction of the ^hesive. process, and consequent inflammatory accession and suppura-