184 TKEATMENT OF SCIRlllIUS. indeed the patient may die, ultimately, of disease to all appearance totally unconnected with the scirrhus. Under such circumstances, operation is withheld; the tumour is left undisturbed, and guarded carefully from excitement. But while thus, in the patient of seventy, the progress of the tumour is slow, and the indications of cachexy weak or apparently absent—the opposite obtains in regard to the patient of forty, or less. And when, at such age, a tumour is advancing rapidly, with a marked cachexy at the same time consuming the general frame, it is prudent to abstain from the knife, even though the lymphatic system seems as yet wholly iminvolvedj for, in such cases, besides the possibility of con- current internal cancerous complication, the probability of return is ex- tremely great; the disease being not delayed by the operation, but truly undergoing exacerbation. And thus we see, that extreme activity of the disease in the comparatively young, and extreme indolence of it in the aged, both alike contra-indicate operation. It may also be observed, that, cceteris paribus^ return is more probable in the case of the open tumour, than of the occult. In those cases in which there is freeness of integument, and laxity of all the surrounding textures, it is well to conduct the incisions and sub- sequent treatment so as to favour adhesion of the wound, and mobihty of the cicatrix ; for such a state of matters is found favourable to immunity from return; while tedious suppuration and granulation, resulting in a tight, firm, adherent cicatrix, strained by each movement of the part, have an opposite tendency. All irritation of the cicatrix, of whatever kind, should of course be carefully avoided. An important question arises, whether, after thorough removal of the apparent local disease, by operation, we have any means of staying, or altogether removing, the constitutional vice; and so securing a per- manent cure, by immunity from return. It is to be feared that this can as yet only be answered in the negative. Conium has long enjoyed a certain reputation as possessed of such a virtue ; and by some surgeons, it is trusted in, and administered accordingly. A tonic system of general treatment—preceded, if need be, by alteratives—is indicated, to assist in prevention or arrest of the cachexy's development; and the preparations of iron are usually found suitable. Arsenic, too, may be of service, in this way ; though not as a specific. When return has occurred, under what were supposed favourable circumstances, there may come to be. a question as to the expediency of further operation. If the return be in the usual manner,^with ulceration and tumour of the cicatrix, numerous superficial nodules around, and obvious involvement of the lymphatics, no good can result fi-om further interference by the knife. But if the return be by an occult, small, and limited tumour, as sometimes happens, and if the general system be yet comparatively sound—then by a second, and if possible still more careful and complete operation, the remaining chance, slight though it must be regarded, ought certainly to be afi'orded—especially if requested by the patient. In the truly hopeless cases, we content ourselves with palliation. A rigidly spare regimen will be fbimd to do no good by delaying the tumour's growth, while it does much harm by favouring the cachexy's