PURULENT OPHTHALMIA. 076 aiid beneath it ; when considerahlo causing it to bulge over the mar^r! of the cornea, and leaving that texture in the relative position oi depression or dimple. This tumid state of the conjunctiva is termc Ghemosis. When the affection is acute, and the chemosis great, thi cornea is in danger of sloughing; partly from its participation in 1! inflamniatory change, and partly by the circumferential ulceration of ii structures, where it is concealed by the surrounding chemosis, thimibi- the margins through which its nutrition is maintained. The system sympathises to a great extent. At first inllammatoi' fever is developed. Afterwards, the form of Constitutional Irritation i often assumed; and in many cases the pale face, trembling hand deranged digestion, and feeble pulse, indicate a degree of prostratioi which, though constantly present when the disease is seen in an advancf stage, may manifest itself from the very commencement. Vision is i imminent danger, by change of structure in the cornea, and also by di organization of the entire globe; for to the latter result this affectio may advance, under circumstances of either neglect or severity. In Egypt the disease prevails as an epidemic, and has done so f ages; of the most virulent and intractable form; very fatal to sight originally induced by sun and sand ; and propagated, also, by direct coi tagion. In effecting reproduction by the latter mode, the flies are sai to be active agents—passing from one eye to another, tainted with tl contagious matter. In this country, it is happily both less frequent au less severe. It may follow injury ; and then the purulent discharge to be looked on as the mere consequence of a high amount of inflan matory progress, induced by a powerful exciting cause. AVant of cleai liness, of good drainage, and of ventilation, and the over-crowding inmates—as in schools and barracks, and on board of ship—predispo to the production of this form of disease, under the influence of a cor paratively slight exciting cause. Thus occasioned, it is undoubted contagious ; the matter of one patient applied to the sound conjuncti of another being capable of inducing a similar affection. And whi many patients happen to be crowded together, without due cleanhne and ventilation, there is good reason to believe that the infectious eh racter is also acquired. Treatment, in energy and promptitude unequalled in any other affc tion, used to be employed in these cases. Tor this disease, or t mere suspicion of it, blood-letting was practised without regard to conf quences. " Bleed so long as blood can be drami. The lancet must ne% be out of reach if you would save your patient's sight." Such were t dicta of our immediate predecessors. " The only case of gonorrlio ophthalmia," says a distinguished writer, " which I have seen in whi the eye was saved, was that of a young woman in whom venesection ^^ repeated as often as blood could be got from the arm. She lost 1 ounces in a few days, and looked as if every drop of blood had b drained from her body, the skin having nearly the hue of a wax candl'. Purgatives, emetics, salivation, and starvation were strenuously advoca too, as essential if we would save the eye. Now-a-days things are very different, and results are more satisfacto Leeches even are rarely needed ; of use only at tlie very outset, and