934 DISLOCATION OF THE SHOULDER. Cooper gives a detailed accoimt of a dissection of an old example of this kind. In it the dislocation was subacromial, the head of the hone resting against the posterior edge of the glenoid fossa. The tendon of the suhscapularis and the corresponding portion of the capsular ligament had been torn. The supra-spinatus was put on the stretch, while the infra-spinatus and teres minor were relaxed ; the long head of the biceps was elongated, but not ruptured. The characteristic symptoms of this accident are projection of the head posteriorly in the subspinous fossa, the arm directed do^vnwards and forwards, with the elbow rotated in- wards, and a depression beneath and in front of the acromion, which extends deeply between the posterior margin of that process and the coracoid. Diagnosis is usually made with great facility. In considering the methods of effecting reduction of a dislocated shoulder, prominence is given in the first place to those most appropriate to the intracoracoicl and subglenoid forms. Reduction may be effected in a variety of ways. By circumduction, when the dislocation is recent, more especially when the patient is stUl suffering from the shock of the accident. Placing him in the sittiag posture, the surgeon seizes the arm just above the elbow, and as he carries the elbow outwards, backwards, upwards, and forwards, he presses upon the head of the bone with the finger or thumb of the other hand, and urges it into its socket. In many cases, whatever the direction of the displacement, the reduction will be found easily effected. Bi/ extension at right angles to the body, or in the axis of the dis- placement—the axis of extension being intended to relax the deltoid, supra-spinatus, and infra-spinatus muscles, which, according to Sir A. Cooper, are the principal opponents of reduction ; or rather, it admits of the head of the bone being drawn straight back through the rent in the capsule, in the direction in which it was displaced. The only objection to this method is, that the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi are strained upon, and thus tend to keep the head of the bone in its displaced position. If it be adopted, it is well, therefore, to relax the biceps, also, by flexion of the forearm; the laque being attached, if required, above the elbow. The patient may be either seated or recum- bent ; and counter-extension is made by a broad sheet or belt passed round the chest—pressure being at the same time made against the margin of the acromion, so as to fix the scapula more completely. This may also be effected in the absence of assistance, by the surgeon sitting beside his patient lying in the recumbent position, and, with the hall of his great toe pressed against the under margin of the sharply-detined acromion, making steady extension outwards, while traction is eilected from the patient's wrist. After extension has been duly sustained, and all adhesions broken up by rotating the head of the bone in moveuienta of the forearm, the force is suddenly slacked, and a jerking, coaptatuig movement is exerted on the head of the bone upwards—the humerus being used as a lever. When the patient is seated, much power in coaptation is obtained by the surgeon placing his foot on the chair, with his kn(^c lodged in the patient's axilla ; he then seizes the forearm in one hand, while with the other he steadies the acromion process; and, as sion is gi-adually made, he rotates the forearm backwards and forwards,