LARYNGOSCOPY. 866 risk of lacerating the tliinncd coats of tlje traclica and aneurism, and inducing an immediately latal result.* Lcmjngoscoxiy. In examining the larynx with a view to determine the existence of structural lesions, their nature and curability, and even in some ca.ses to effect their operative treatment, great assistance will be obtained by the use of the laryngoscope. The idea of the employment of such an instrument, in the diagnosis of affections of the glottis, first occurred to the fertile mind of Listen, who in 1837, in his Practical Surgery, wrote as follows : " By such a glass as is used by dentists on a long stalk, previously dipped in hot water, introduced with its reflecting surface downwards, and carried well back into the fauces, a view may often be had of the parts." This hint, of fully twenty years' standing, was in. 1855 turned to good purpose by Garcia, who, in. the Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science (vol. X. p. 218) for 1855, published a series of observations upon the formation of the voice. In 1857 Dr. Turck, physician to the General Hospital at Vienna, occupied himself in researches upon the diagnosis of laryngeal disease by this means. Since that period the attention of the profession and of physiologists has been directed to the prosecution of the study of diseases, and of the physiology of the larynx, by means of the laryngoscope, chiefly through the active exertion of Dr. Czermack of Prague. By Liston, Garcia, and Turck, the illumination was obtained by the patient sitting facing the sun-light, so that the luminous rays, falling on the little mirror placed in. the throat, might be reflected down into the larynx. At the same time the reflected image of the laryngeal apparatus became visible in the mirror to the observer, whose head wa!- so placed as to see without intercepting the light. For auto-laryngoscopic investigation an additional hand-mirror is required, by means of which, the observer's back being turned to the sun the light is first reflected upon the laryngeal mirror, and thence into th larynx ; while in the hand-mirror he sees the reflection of the laryngea mirror, with the picture of his own larynx. Although solar hght « undoubtedly, in point of brilliancy and colour, far better fitted fo enabling the observer to recognize alterations in tint than any artificia illumination can ever be, the latter is more generally applicable for tlii; purpose. When artificial light is employed for auto-laryngoscopy, th< observer must sit facing and close to the lamp, with the hand-niiiTO held so as to screen his eyes from the light which illuminates the laryn geal mirror ; while, at the same time, he is enabled to see in the gla of the hand-mirror a reflection of his fauces, and the image formed oi the faucial mirror. The best means of artificial illumination for laryngoscopy is eith the common paraffin lamp, or an argand gas lamp. In examming * Tt were out of jilace, in sncli a M'orlc as this, to enter fully into the various intf' csting and important affections of the windpipe. But it is right to notice tlioi l)ricfly, in connection with the operation of bronchotomy ; the leading features oi being stated. I