CONICAL CORNEA. 692 Conical Cornea, Sometimes tliG cornea, retaining its transparency, gradually assumes a conical or pyramidal form ; and Avlion viewed in front, reflects and refracts the light so as to exhibit a peculiarly brilliant and sparkling appearance lilce a large dew drop, which is quite characteristic of the disease. The very apex of the cone, rounded off and usually faintly nebulous, is situated in most cases in the centre of the cornea; in some instances it has been observed to occupy a lateral position. Tlie apex is - the thinnest part of the projection, and if attacked by ulceration, thenr; staj)hyloma may supervene. Although perhaps accompanied by keratitis, i it is certainly not due to it; and whether increased intraocular pressure,' or an atrophic thinning of the corneal structure, is the first stage of the. disease is still an unsettled point. It generally affects both eyes, though: not in an equal degree ; has been observed at all periods of life, but more commonly between puberty and thirty years of age; and is said be most prevalent among females. On the whole, it is a rare affection :i| and fortunately it is so, being but little capable of amendment. In slighter cases of conical cornea, palliation may be obtained hj adapting deeply concave glasses to the eyes, or by employing a black- plate pierced with a single rounded aperture the size of the pupil, o) with a narrow horizontal slit; the pupil being kept dilated. It been said, that amendment, if not ciu'e, has followed perseverance ii the use of purgatives and emetics; * but how the beneficial result is & obtained, it is not easy to understand or say; all the more as furthi experience has not confirmed tl eligibility of this otherwise inji rious plan of treatment. LatelJ iridectomy, division of the cdia ligament, and intraocular myotonuj have been said to produce satisfa tory effects, especially when oth^ signs of intraocular pressure weitj present. Sir W. Adams sugge extraction of the crystalline lea-j Mr. Tyrrell advised displacemeM of the pupil, which is a reasonable enough procedure when the apex A opaque. Eut as a rule, in uncomphcated cases of conical cornea, oper tion is quite unnecessary. Over-distension of the Cornea. Simple over-distension of the cornea, by an unwonted accumulatic i of the aqueous humour, is a frequent concomitant of keratitis, and rc^idi' yields to appropriate treatment; always being relieved by paracentesis the cornea. This little operation is best performed by means of eitht a common extraction knife, or a double-edged lance-bladed artificial pufJ * Pickford, Diibliii Joumal of Medical Science, Januiuy 1S44, p. 3.57. Fig. 253. Conical Cornea,