EXTRACTION OF CATARACT. 719 cornea is completo. In effecting this nicanipulation, the phalangeal joint of the thumb should be kept steadily extended, as by this means all lateral motion which would malce the section gape is avoided. All pressure is now to be removed from the eyeball. If the aqueous humour escape prematurely, the iris falls forward, and is consequently brought into contact with the edge of the knife. In this case a stop is made; and gentle supporting pressure must be applied to the cornea yet uncut, without, however, withdrawing the knife. This may succeed in replacing the iris, and then section is continued. If not, the knife is withdrawn; the probe-pointed knife is substituted; and with this the section is completed. Or, according to the method of Sichel and others, the opera- tion may be interrupted, and postponed till the humour is reproduced; or the section may be summarily completed—the prolapsed iris thus removed not materially modifying the result. The corneal section having been satisfactorily made, the eyelids are lermitted to close, the eye to rest, and the pupil to dilate. Then, the ids having been gently reopened, the sharp curved needle is cautiously itroduced beneath the flap, and as gently as possible made to divide the lapsule freely, from margin to margin of the pupillary aperture. The ens then usually, of its own accord, begins to turn out—its upper largiu forward—and sweeping over the uveal structure of the iris, ippears in the pupil, evolves itself into the anterior chamber, and escapes ■om the corneal aperture. Should this not take place, laceration of the ipsule should be repeated in the opposite direction; and should the [ens still obstinately remain in situ, while we are satisfied that the corneal ipening is sufficiently free, then the slightest possible pressure is to be lade on the lower eyelid—over the anterior part of the globe, just below ;he corneal margin, while with the fingers we steady the globe above— 10 as to dislodge the lens—and nothing more. Sometimes, unfortun- ttely, the lens, instead of escaping, passes backwards into the vitreous Lumour. When this occurs, no advantage will follow any attempts to ■ecover and remove it. Also, if with the lens a considerable quantity if vitreous humour escapes, so that the globe collapses, all hope of the sstoration of function may be at once given up. On escape of the opaque body, the corneal flap is properly adjusted, md the eyelids are permitted finally to close. Should the iris have •relapsed, sudden exposure to a bright light will probably suffice for reduction, by causing contraction of the tissue ; if not, gentle friction iver the closed lids will reduce it within the cornea. If some of the (ffcened cortical substance of the lens lodge in the corneal wound, this mat be carefully cleared away with the scoop, so as to remove what ould otherwise prove a certain obstruction to immediate union. A irip or two of court plaster may be applied to the lids, so as to secure em, and thus prevent movement; or gentle support may be afforded, id movement prevented, by covering the eye with a pad of cotton wool stained by a bandage. Sometimes, just as the operation is complete, flood escapes from the pupil, fills the anterior chamber, and flows from jetween the lids. This may be due to a wound of the iris; more usually IS caused by extravasation into the vitreous humour, occasioned by ^ giving way of some of the choroidal vessels; and if this latter