TllEATMENT OF CAKIES. 294 Escharotics may s<jinetimes be employed ; as for example, when the patient resolutely objects to any other mode of removal. Also, when cutting instruments have been used, and yet a border of suspicious character remains, the extinction of sucli a suspected part may be con- veniently enough entrusted to cauterization. The actual cautery may be applied; but unwisely. It effects too much. The carious part is at once and satisftictorily kiUed ; but, as happens in all severe burns, the texture immediately surrounding the eschar, though escaping with life, has its vitality very much impaired, and is more prone to disintegration than repair. The potential cautery is infinitely preferable. It destroys the diseased part just as effectually, though perhaps with less rapidity ; and Fig. 118. at the same time the immediately adjoining parts do not in anywise suffer, but at once institute a healthful line of demarcation for removal of the dead part, and are well able to commence at the same time a sthenic process of repair. The preferable form of potential escharotic is the chloride of zinc made into a paste. Application is made with in- tensity deemed sufiicient to ensure death of all the suspected part; and the escharotic is then removed. The whole wound is filled gently with lint; and such dressing is continued, covered perhaps by a poidtice. After separation of the eschar, the bone's surface is treated as a simple ulcer. Certain parts of the skeleton are Hable to caries, and not accessible to either knife or caustics ; as the bodies of the vertebrae. In these, the main reliance for cure must be placed in Nature ; the surgeon is qualified only to look on and assist—when he may. But as, under such circum- stances, ordinary indications of cure cannot be carried out—or at least can only be slowly and imperfectly fulfilled—prognosis is unfavourable. It is still essential that the carious surface shall be thrown off, and a healthy foundation for repair obtained. This can only be accomplished by an effort of the part itself. By the process of nutritive change the unnaturally can- cellated part is converted completely into medullary tissue, without pro- ceeding to suppuration; and while the dead spicular fragments are either extruded as a whole, or in small fragments, the formation of pus ceases, and the granulation-substance and medullary tissue become again trans- formed into cancellated bone. Or such discriminative separation may be accelerated, or at all events mixed up with more continuous death of the Fig. 117. Gouge. Suitable for effectually removing the carious texture. Fig. 118. Cutting bone-pliers; commonly called Liston's forceps; shut; for dividing the diseased bone—as in resection of carious joints.