1106 PROSTATIC CALCULUS. cuius, lodged in the urethra, works its way out by ulceration and abscess • presenting itself in the perineum or scrotum ;—a tedious and unsatisfac- tory process, not to be wished for, or trusted to in treatment. Preputial Calculics.—When the prepuce is congenitally long, and of tight orifice, and when the patient labours under calculous diathesis, a concretion may form exteriorly to the urethra, within the cavity of the prepuce ; the urine being in some proportion retained there, after mictu- rition, and having opportunity thus afforded for deposit. The symptoms are most manifest; painful and frequent micturition; congestion of the parts ; the stone to be felt by manipulation, and also on introduction of a probe through the narrow preputial orifice. Treatment is simple. By a curved bistoury the prepuce is divided on its lower aspect; and by this simple incision two evils are at once remedied: the stone is dis- loged, and the condition of phymosis is removed. Prostatic Calculus. The term Prostatic -is not applied to a vesical calculus, which in its passage outwards has been arrested in the prostatic portion of the urethra; but is properly limited to those concretions which form in the ducts of the prostate gland. They are of small size, brown, smooth, and some- times numerous ; and consist of phosphate of lime, sometimes mixed with carbonate of lime, deposited from the secretion of the ducts. They produce more or less irritation at the neck of the bladder; especially after the bladder has been emptied. When they project into the canal, a sensation of rubbing may be felt when a sound passes over them. And, if in numbers, they may be felt sliding on each other, by a fiinger intro- duced into the rectum, and pressing upon the part. Whatever tends to vitiate and retain the secretion of the ducts, tends to the formation of such concretions. Hence they are generally met with in cases of tight stricture of the posterior part of the urethra. The ordinary result is one of two events. The calculus, reaching the orifice of the duct, drops back into the bladder, and may be either extruded thence, or remaining may constitute the nucleus of a vesical concretion. Or the stone or stones remain in the substance of the gland; perhaps leading to abscess and disorganization. In the case of small projecting calculi, they may be dislodged by the end of a catheter; to be afterwards passed by the urethra, or to be ground by lithotripsy. And in the great majority of cases they may be passed readily enough, if no unnatural obstruction exist in the TU'ethi'a. When numerous calculi lodge in the gland, a smaU lithotomy may be had re- course to—an operation, however, which is very seldom required. Calculus in the Female. As already stated, urinary concretions are comparatively rare in the female ; for two reasons ; because the calculous diathesis is less common ; and because, the urethra being short, capacious, straight, and well-flooded, extrusion of renal formations is more probable than their retention. Nuclei are not unfrequently afi"orded, however, by the introduction of