DETENTION OF URINE. 1118 relieved ; the cyst being afterwards treated as the circumstances and complications of the case may render prudent. 7. Retention from Urethral Galculus. — This occurrence has been already alluded to; impaction of a calculus taking place in such a way as quite to occlude the canal. Three courses of procedure are open to us : We may by the catheter push back the calculus into the liladder, treat- ing it afterwards by lithotripsy. Or we may at once remove it by direct incision. Or we may bring it to the orifice of the urethra, and thence extract it—by dilatation if necessary. If the stone is small, movable, and situate anteriorly, we prefer the last mode ; if it is impacted in the prostatic portion of the canal, we probably prefer the first. If it is of some considerable size, firmly impacted, and beyond the prostatic por- tion, we have recourse to excision. In all cases, however, it is well in the first place to relieve retention. For this purpose a small-sized cathe- ter can usually, mthout much difficulty, be conveyed into the bladder past the stone. Indeed, in many cases, the existence of this is not de- tected till an instrument is passed to relieve the retention. 8. Rete7ition from Injury of the Perineum.—1. Extensive braise of the perineum may cause retention, irrespective of any injury done to the urethra ; the extravasated blood bulging inwards on the canal. In such a case, the catheter must be used, until by absorption the compressing agent has been diminished or taken away. 2. Again, injury of the peri- neum may induce inflammatory accession, either in tlie uretlira itself or in the parts exterior to itand, in the latter situation, abscess may form. The treatment advisable under such circumstances has already been stated. 3. When the urethra has been torn or cut, there is no room for delay ; retention must not be waited for; the catheter cannot be too soon intro- duced. For, if the patient have made an effort to evacuate the bladder, before such introduction, urine will certainly have escaped at the injured part, causing all the deadly results of extravasation. And only by early introduction of the catheter—retaining it until consolidation shall have taken place at the injured part—can extravasation be avoided.* If the urethra have been completely torn across, there may be difiiculty in passing the instrument; nay, not improbably, the surgeon may be alto- gether foiled in his attempt to penetrate the vesical orifice—shrvmk, retracted, and displaced. Under such circumstances, a free perineal incision must be made so as to expose the part; and then the catheter is passed through and retained. It is surely much better to make a limited incision, with the vie^v of preventing extravasation, than to be compelled to incise still more largely afterwards, for the escape of sanies and sloughs, after urinary infiltration has occurred. 9. Retention from Paralysis.—A paralytic state of the detrusor may be the result of accidental over-distension merely ; of spinal injury ; of general debility, as in fever; or of senile decay. The ordinary call to evacuate the bladder having again and again been neglected, under circumstances of restraint, the sufferer, when liberated from these, will * It is a good general rule, in all cases of serious injury done to the perineum, to pass the catheter very cautiously, immediately on being called to the patient. If the urine come away clear, it is a good omen, and a point is gained both in diagnosis and treatment.