TUMOURS OF THE SCALP. 2 T G41 Aware of the cUmgcrs of erysipelas of the scalp, it is plainly our duty in the management of all Avounds of the head—however trivial they may at fii-st seem to be—to avoid everything, in part and system, calculated to induco an undue amount and kind of tlie inilammatory process ; more ospecially if, by previous indisposition, or sinister atmospheric inlluonce, the patient seems to be predisposed to erysipelatous accession. And even when convalescence is abeady set in, we should not regard the patient as free from danger of the occurrence of internal mischief. The continuance of a quick pulse, or an unnaturally slow one, a dry tongue, an ii-ritable stomach, and restless or delirious nights, should awaken our s\ispicions, and demand the employment of active treatment. Tumours of the Scalp. Encysted tumours, commonly called Wens, are found more frequently on the scalp than in any other situation ; and they are seldom single ; occurring in groups, in successive crops, and in various stages of develop- ment ; varying from the si^e of a millet seed to that of a small melon, and sometimes in such numbers as almost to defy enumeration. In general they are regarded mainly as deformities; but when they suppu- rate and open, they may become both troublesome and dangerous. The only advisable mode of treatment is removal by the knife. Tha main danger to be encountered is inflammatory accession, assuming the erysi- pelatous character; and this must accordingly be provided against by careful apposition of the edges of the incision; taking care that all bleeding has become spontaneously arrested in the first instance; and suitable constitutional treatment being maintained, as well before as after the operation. J£ the tumour be of large size, it is removed by regular dissection. By two elliptical incisions, of merely subcutaneous depth, the redundant and adherent, or ulcerated integument is detached; and then the cyst, carefully preserved entire and tense, is dissected from its connections, and taken away along with the portion of sacrificed integument. The flaps of skin are then replaced; and, on oozing of blood having ceased, they are brought into accurate contact; the wound being treated with the hope of adhesion. Approximation is effected by wire sutures, or a pad and bandage, as seems most suitable; and to facilitate the application of these retentive means, the surrounding scalp should be shaved, if not aheady divested of hair—the bulbs having been destroyed by the growth of the tiunour. If oozing of blood have not wholly ceased, it is advisable to maintain accurate pressure on the whole wound for an hour or two, 80 as to prevent the accumulation of blood within ; an event necessarily fetal to adhesion. Indeed, such pressure is advisable after every sucli operation. If tlie tumour be no larger than a nut, or small egg, it is unneccssaiy to remove any integument; and regular dissection is therefore not re- loured. A more summary process by incision and evulsion of the cyst ^1 then suffice. If an encysted tumour, in a patient advanced in years, liavo sujipu- and be in prf)ces3 of intractable ulceration, it is well to remove the