395 SYMPTOMS OF ANEURISM. phrenzy of delirium and despair, sought an end of trouble by thrusting a corkscrew into the centre of the tumour.* He had groat fear of dying; but pain, by its intensity, overcame the fear of death, and drove him to suicide. The pain, be it remembered, is not only or always com- plained of as existing in the situation of the aneurism; it frequently affects, or extends to, parts beyond. In popliteal aneurism, for example, the heel is very frequently complained of as the site of pain. Pressure on the passing nerves causes not only pain, but numbness and swelling also, of the lower part of the limb. By pressure on the veins and lymphatics, congestion is induced; causing more or less cedema, by which the limb is swoln and discoloured. From the same cause there is physical weakness, diminution of temperature, and impair- ment of function. And let it never be forgotten, that vital power—the power of resisting or controlling the inflammatory process, and averting its untoward results—is very much impaired. Important organs in the neighbourhood may have their functions seriously impeded by the bulging of an aneurism. In thoracic aneurism, for example, compression of the air passages may threaten asjjhyxia; inanition may be impending, by obstruction of the gullet, and respira- tion may be obstructed by pressure on the recurrents acting upon the larynx. The patient's own perception of the disease is usually most distinct. He sees and feels the living, beating tumour. But the period at which he first becomes aware of its presence is very various. If it have been formed by dilatation only, weeks or months may elapse, subsequently to its origin, ere it arrests his attention. If it have been produced by the second mode of formation, the first stage, by dilatation, may have passed unnoticed; but the aggravation by giving way of the coats is usually quite distinct. And, as already stated, when the disease has begun by sudden laceration of the tissue, the very instant of origin is noted and remembered by the patient. As the tumour enlarges, the artery contracts on its distal aspect, and circulation is weaker there. Did the lower limb depend for its arterial supply wholly on the contents of the affected trlink, vital power would be brought much lower than it is. But the diminished volume of the main stream is compensated, by enlargement of the side channels. What is termed the collaterial circulation—at all times existing—is amplified to atone for the deficiency. Collateral branches, arising above the tumour, enlarge; and, anastomosing with others from below, as they pass round the aneurism, pour their contents again into the main trunk. Some inches beyond the tuniour, the arterial canal again shews its normal dimensions ; and the general circulation of the Hmb is ultimately the same; only, at and around the tumour, it is partly direct and partly circuitous. The tumour has not existed for any very long time before its con- tents begin to assume, in part, the solid form. Fibrin is deposited from the circulating blood, and becomes arranged in concentric laniinas within the sac. Part is incorporated with the inner surface of the cyst; be- conung connected with it by both organic arrangement and vasculaiiza- * Monthly Journal, April 1850.