SCIRRHUS. Fig. 65. 17G 1. SciRRnus.—Tliis tumour may be eitlier secondary or original Mucli. more frequently it is the latter secondary formations, by dege- neracy, being usually of the medullary form. AVhen primary, as it generally is, scirrhus has a small, firm origin, and steadily increases ; usually with much pain from the beginning, of a sharp and shooting kind. The hardness to the touch is greater tlian in any pother tumour, excepting perhaps the fibrous ; it is stone-like. Weight also is great, in proportion to the bulk The form is not globulai" and circumscribed, like that of the fibrous; but llattish, irregular, and gra- dually lost in the surrounding texture; at least without any abrupt or distinct margin of separation. The growth of the tumour is not rapid ; greater than that of the fibrous tumour, but less than that of the other simple formations, and infinitely slower than that of the medullary. And it may be stated as a general rule, that the older the patient the slower the growth. In the comparatively young—say forty—months may suffice for far advancement; and in the old—say seventy—years may have passed away, with a tumour yet hard, small, occult, and but little pain- ful. When the tumour forms in the substance of an organ, as the mamma, the part grows smaller as it grows hard; for the tumour slowly increases, and at the same time the normal texture and the first-formed portion of the growth tend to shrink by atrophy. By and by the surface may be approached by the intervening textures becoming involved in the morbid structure ; or by cancerous development ot the intervening con- nective-tissue corpuscles the skin is ultimately incorporated, becoming dark-coloured, depressed, and adherent. This usually happens at a com- paratively early stage. At fi^rst the tumour is movable; but ultimately, by incorporation with neighbouring parts—skin superficially, and muscle beneath—it be- comes fixed. By gliding with the muscle, however, to which it is attached, over the subjacent bone, mobility may be simulated. A scirrhous mamma, for example, fixed deeply in the pectoral muscle, may thus seem superficial to it; and careful examination is required for accurate diag- nosis in this respect. Sometimes the scirrhous passes into the medullary, either wholly or in part; then the characters of the former are merged in those of the latter; the tumour becomes soft, prominent, and elastic, growth is rapid, and the size may become great. A cachexy attends on this as on all other forms of cancerous disease : it is evidenced by emaciation, a marked salloMTiess of coimtenance, and sometimes by irregular hectic fever; but this last symptom is not usually dis- tinct until emaciation has begun. The disease seldom makes its appearance until mature age; rarely before thirty ; more frequently after at least ten years more have elapsed. Females are more liable to it than males; and the females who have borne no children are more likely to suffer than those who Fig. 65. Scii'i-liiis of tlic broast, bisected. The figure of the tumour, with its effect ou the gland uud nipple shewn.