TUMOURS OF THE MAMMA. 981 Pendulous Breast. The pendulous breast is an affection of advanced years j being but an exaggeration of the ordinary dug-like condition which this organ so crenerafly assumes, in tliose who have borne children, and who habitually neglect support of the part in dress. The only warrantable treatment is palliation by suspension and support. Various Tumours. The gland may be the seat of Simple tumour—Glandular, or Fihro- cellular. ° When partial, and not steadily increasing, the affection is virtually a mere hypertrophy. But when the mass becomes absolutely unseemly, a source of great discomfort to the patient, and has attained to a weight which may in some cases even be that of pounds, it certainly deserves to be regarded as a true tumour. The structure consists of a lowly imitative development of the glandular mammary structure, com- posed of acini unprovided with excretory ducts ; and hence the tumour derives the name of Adenoid or glandular. The treatment in the early stage should consist in efforts at discussion by the use of iodine exter- nally and internally; and, if that fail, and the growth steadily increase and annoy the patient, excision should certainly be recommended. Fibrous tumours have a favourite site here. Their structure varies from that of the ''pancreatic sarcoma" of Mr. Abernethy, to that of a fibro- cartilaginous tumour; rarely larger than a biUiard baU, but sometimes attaining to a very large size. This fibrous growth is sometimes situated within the mammary gland, but quite separate from its structure. Some- times it lies beneath, in other cases marginally. It usually occurs in unmarried women between the ages of twenty and forty, and is recog- nised by its mobility, definition, and painless character. Though less liable to degeneration than any other morbid growth, it is certainly not exempt from that untoward occurrence ; and, therefore, except in the aged, it is weU to remove by operation that which can never grow better and may grow worse. For, although actual cancerous degeneration is a rare consequence, softening of the tumour, with ulceration of the cutaneous textures, which have from pressure become adherent to the growth, is far from improbable. Sloughing ensues, and with the separa- tion of the slough, hemorrhage—copious, repeated, and exhausting—is almost certain to wear out the patient. When the tumour is small, the incision for its removal is made through the integuments and super- imposed glandular substance, so as to expose the mass, which is then laid hold of and dissected out of the capsule, but loosely adherent to its surface. The bleeding from the mammary vessels is usually copious and troublesome. When the tumour is of large size, and the mamma has become completely atrophied, the entire mass should be removed as a whole, the gland having generally become incorporated with the tumour. Cystic sarcoma is very common. Like the simple mammary tumour, it is most frequent under thirty years of age, and prevails chiefly among the better classes. It is composed mainly of serous cysts, the pareiichyma consisting of little more than the substance of the gland