ABSCESS OF BONE. 285 assistance of a small trephine nmy he requirea. The purulent contents thus evacuatea ; and an efficient draining of them is ensured, by are establishing a second and more dependent aperture, if necessary opening followed by counter-opening. Granulation and repair advance Fig. 111. in the interior ; by uniform support externally, from bandaging, centn- petal contraction of the parictes is favoured ; and thus slowly the cavity may disappear, the discharge cease, the swelling in some measure s^ibside ; ;md both symmetry and usefulness may be at least partially restored. But not unfrequently, as can readily be imagined, progress towards cure is interr rupted, the part threatening to remain open ; in such circumstances, stimulation of the interior by injec- tions, as of sulphate of zinc, is Ukely to prove bene- ficial. And if these fail, a seton may be lodged temporarily, so as to excite fresh inflammatory acces- sion ; which, on subsidence from the suppurative stage, may carry on repair with a renewed and more success- fid energy. If the cavity be large, and its parietes thin and superficial, the process of cure may be ab- breviated by removing a part of these, and then cbessing the wound so as to ensure contraction and cicatrization from the bottom. Scrofulous, or Tuhercular Abscess of Bone.—This is of indolent and ^chronic origin; liable to acute exacerbation. It is situated in the cancellous texture ; in the bodies of the short bones, or in the arti- culating extrenieties of the long ones. The cancelli of the bone having become enlarged, by thinning and even complete absorption of their walls, the contained medullary substance, presenting a rosy or purplish congested appearance, tends, as the disease advances, either to undergo fatty or suppurative change. Thus, the whole bone becomes expanded, and perhaps even soft and compressible. The formation of tubercular matter, according to some, is supposed to take place in the cancelli, as a common consequence of these preliminary pathological changes ; and certainly here and there yellow tubercular nodules may be observed, in making sections of cancellated bone in scrofulous patients. There is, however, good reason to believe that these are merely the remains of purulent collections, and consist of accretions of shrunken pus corpuscles, and not of true tubercle. In bone affected in this way, there are usually indistinct symptoms of a chronic or subacute inflammatory process having preceded this change in the nutrition of its cancelli. Such cheesy puru- lent formations having accumulated in some quantity, an inflammatory process supervenes ; spontaneously, or by external injury. The old solidified pus crumbles down, becoming mixed with a new purulent for- mation. And this matter may be either limited by a pyogenic membrane, or become diffused by extension of the corpuscular multiplication in the surrounding parts ; most frequently the abscess is of the diff'use cha- Fig. 111. Clironic abscess of tibia—of large size. Bnne mucli thickened as well a.s expanded round the cavity. Prop, in Royal College of Surgeons' Museum, Edinburgh.