1057 IMPEllFORATE ANUS. tliree kinds of this malformation. 1. The rectum may be fuUy deve- loped, and have its orifice shut by a thin membranous expansion only; or the canal may be obstructed by a membranous septum, at some dis- tance from the orifice—which latter may appear in all respects normal. 2. Or the bowel is imperfect; ending in a blind cul-de-sac, at some distance from the integument of the perineum, in which there is a mere depression or vestige marking where the anus ought to be. In such cases the bowel may open into the vagina in the female, or bladder in the male. 3. Or the rectum is almost or altogether deficient; the sigmoid flexure of the colon terminating in a cul-de-sac, at the upper part of the pelvis. The symptoms present are those of intestinal obstruction, viz., swelling of the abdomen, vomiting, and the absence of all fsecal evacuation. Then peritoneal pain and tympanitic distension set in, and unless the obstruction admits of relief the child speedily sinks. The first form is easily managed. An incision is made into the occluding membrane through which the dark coloured meconium can be recognised; and for some days a piece of dressing is interposed, or the finger passed, to prevent union. But often this precaution will be un- necessary ; the daily passage of faeces sufficing to keep the aperture patent. The second variety is more common, and more troublesome. Some thickness of parts intervenes between the operator and the bowel. And at first the latter may be felt but obscurely, if at all; there being none of the bulging fluctuation which must soon be apparent in the former case. Under these circumstances, we wait until the meconium accumu- lates, and tin the bowel in consequence descends and is distended. It may then afibrd some indication of its presence to the finger from with- out To assist, let firm pressure be made in the left hypogastric region j and such pressure should also be maintained, during the operation for rehef The cries of the child are of service. He is placed on the knee of a nurse or assistant, in a position as if for lithotomy. By means of a scalpel, an incision is made in the middle line through the integument in front of the coccyx; and, by cautious dissection, the bulging cul-de- sac is sought for ; the finger always preceding the point of the knife ; the line of exploration following the natural curve of the bowel, in the hollow of the sacrum, lest the bladder, vagina, or peritoneum should bo wounded—not keeping too close upon the bone, lest the bowel be over- passed and be mistaken for the bladder—and not diverging to either side, lest the pelvic blood-vessels sustain injury. The cul-de-sac^ having been reached, is opened freely ; the meconium escapes ; and the wound is to be kept pervious by the careful and patient use of tents—or, what is perhaps better, by the constant wearing, for some time, of a tube such as is used after lithotomy. After even deep dissection, we may fail to meet the end of the bowel. Then it is quite warrantable to pass a trocar and canula upwards, cauti- ously, in the direction in which the bowel ought to be; and on with- drawing the trocar, we may have the satisfaction of seeing meconium follow. Where the rectum opens into the bladder, xinless the extremity of the bowel is near the surface and can be easily reached in the manner already described, the case is likely ere long to terminate fatally. Not 3 Y