AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. 1375 Fig. 389. Amputation of the thigh. the part of the powerful flexors of the knee—cut so far from their origin —amputation by transfixion was found till lately unsatisfactory, in what- ever way performed. So that, practically, though the flaps might be formed from the soft parts in the lower tliird of the thigh, yet if the stump turned out a good one, the bone was always found to have been divided either in the lower part or about the centre of the middle third. Even the operation of Yermale, by which a suitable amount and character of soft parts was attempted to be obtained from the lateral aspects of the limb, by perpendicular transfixion, proved unsatisfactory. For long, therefore, amputation in the lower third of the thigh has been practised either by circular incision, or according to its modification by which short areolo-cutaneous flaps are reflected from the anterior and posterior aspects Fig. 389. of the limb, to about two inches above their angles of junction ; and then the muscles in front are divided as high up as exposed; those behind being severed as low down as possible, so as to admit of their retracting independently of the flap, A retractor is then employed to expose the bone as high as may be ; and there it is divided. More recently, as already explained, either Mr. Teale's amputation or the modification of it formerly described (pp. 1351-2), has been adopted here by all our hospital staff, with results of a perfectly satisfactory nature. In the middle and upper part of the thigh, the same method may be practised with quite as satisfactory a result; in fact in the highest ampu- tation possible—at the hip joint—when the textures in front are avail- able for the purpose, it probably constitutes the best method of procedure ; either with a short posterior flap, or with a smooth perpendicular section of the muscles on the back of the pelvis. There is not, however, the same necessity for resorting to its employment to the exclusion of the method by transfixion ; for the distance between the origin and point of