382 LOOSE BODIES. Loose Bodies. These are much more frequently found in thecal than in bursal cavities. They are seldom single; and may be very numerous. Com- monly they are of uniform appearance and size, like barley-corns or melon seeds ; of much softer consistence than the analogous formations in joints ; most common in the tliecaj beneath the annular ligament of the wrist; floating in a thick, glairy, but clear fluid; and causing much inconvenience by swelling. On manipulation, during slight motion of the part, a characteristic crackling, grating, or churning sensation is im- parted to the touch. Removal by direct incision will certainly be followed by an intense inflammatory attack. Suppuration, with much constitutional disturb- ance, can hardly be avoided ; and it is probable that, on ultimate sub- sidence of the inflammatory process, much change of structure will be found to remain, probably impairing the function of the part more seriously than did the previous swelling. Such loose substances, there- fore, should not be interfered with by operation, unless when especially troublesome ; and then the subcutaneous and valvular method of incision will probably be most expedient. Nor, when numerous, should an attempt be made to remove them all at once ; otherwise atmospheric entrance is likely to take place, bringing on the dreaded inflammatory mischief. By repeated punctures, however, they may at different times be safely extruded. Should suppuration occur, we must unhesitatingly make a free and direct incision; and if any constriction in the sac exists, then, by the introduction of a probe-pointed bistoury, this should be subcutaneously divided, so as to secure a free communica- tion with the upper part of the sac, wliich will also suppurate. "When the theca beneath either the anterior or posterior annular ligament of the wrist is affected in this way, the opening of the sac in the palm, or above the wrist, should be completed by subcutaneous division of the annular ligament by the introduction of a curved probe-pointed bistoury along the channel of communication. In France, tapping of the part and injection of tincture of iodiae, is practised ; as for hydrocele. Ganglion. This term is often applied to the diffuse chronic collections in theca?. But, perhaps, it is more correctly limited to the distinct, circumscribed, and prominent, though small collections, which so frequently occur at the wrist and ankle, particularly in the former situation. The cyst is translucent; the contents are thick and clear, usually like " Macgilp and the swelling, though tense, distinctly fluctuates. Sometimes no cause can be assigned ; in other cases, the origin is attributed to a strain. Females are more frequently affected than males. Mere defoi-mity may be the result; or there may also be weakness, with occa- sional pain. The indication of cure is very simple ; to extrude the contents from the interior of the cyst, to disperse them into the surrounding areolar