DISLOCATION OF THE ELBOW. 939 brm. The ohlor surgeons recommended delay, until the union of the racture had become complete ; but if such delay be allowed, for even a much briefer period, our chance of effecting reduction of the displaced lead of the bone is lost. In cases of fracture through the anatomical neck, the separated and displaced head of the bone communicates a very illusory sensation to the surgeon, who at first, until he attempts to seize it, might imagine that its replacement would be easily effected. It glides about, however, eluding his jDressure, so that it will be found rarely, hough certainly occasionally, amenable to reduction. In fracture through he surgical neck the efforts at reduction are more likely to be crowned with success, as the head of the bone can be more firmly held, and admits of greater purchase being obtained upon it. When, with a view to coaptation, reduction has not been effected in the first instance, experience caches us, after the fracture has united, to make no efforts at remedying ;he dislocation ; as in one such instance, where no history of the case afforded a clue to the originally complicated nature of the injury, the reductive attemjDt made with the heel in the axilla refractured the bone without influencing the dislocation. It has been advised in obstinate Dut recent cases, where sufficient purchase is not obtained through the skin, to introduce a tooth-punch through a puncture made with a teno- »my Imife in a safe and convenient situation, and by lodging its point in the cancellated texture of the bone, thus to effect replacement of the displaced head by direct leverage. This is obviously attended with considerable risk. In all cases, whether the dislocation is reduced or Qot, the fracture should be carefully treated by appropriate apparatus, rhe risk of necrosis is not great. Dislocation of the Radius and Ulna at the Elbow. 1. BacJcwards.—Both bones of the forearm may be displaced back-' (rards, without fracture of any part, by falls on the hand, with the elbow H a state of semiflexion, or by violence applied to the lower part of the mn, above the elbow, when the )one is fixed. The joint is much eformed, and has its motion greatly abridged. The hand and 'orearm are midway between pro- lafcion and supuiation, the joint is isually bent at an angle of 120°, md can be neither flexed nor sxtended completely ; sometimes, but less frequently, the arm is straight. Che olecranon forms a very marked projection posteriorly, which is sen- sibly increased if the arm is flexed ; and, on careful examination, the ilecranon is found on a considerably higher level than the external 'con- lyle of the humerus, below which it should be in the natural state of parts vhen the arm is slightly flexed. The coronoid process of the uLia rests in ■he cavity which ought to receive the olecranon ; and on each side of the atter process a hollow is caused, by the displacement backwards of the ■nceps. To distinguish this injury from fracture through the condyles, Fig. 307. Dislocation of both bones backwards.