1126 DISPLACEMENT OF THE BLADDER. after the effort; the urine is Lloody and foetid, and often contains flaky suhstances, or masses of tlie disorganized tumour; by impaction of these, occasional retention may occur; dull weight is felt in the loins ; and the pain of micturition is much more pelvic, and more extensive there, than in the case of stone ; also the sound, on encountering the foreign body, imparts quite a dillerent sensation. There is no remedy for this disease. We can only hope to palliate, by opiates, and the recumbent pos- ture. Sometimes the tumour, expanding, may cause retention which is not capable of being relieved by the catheter ; and, in such circumstances, Ave are called upon to protract existence, by puncturing the bladder, above the pubes. Cancerous disease may extend from the rectum to the bladder, in- volving all in one large and loathsome sore. Malignant tumours also form between the two viscera, as formerly stated. There is for such cases no cure. Displacement of the Bladder. It has been already stated that sometimes, though rarely, the blad- der is protruded, so as to constitute the contents of a hernial tumour. And displacements, too, of this organ, by pelvic abscess and tumo\irs, are alluded to elsewhere. Miserable cases are not very unfrequent, in which the anterior half of the bladder is congenitally defective, as well as the corresponding part of the abdominal walls ; the mucous surface of the viscus becoming consequently protruded to constitute a red moist swelling, from which the ureters may be seen throwing out their fl.uid.* These admit of mere l^alliation, by wearing mechanical contrivances adapted for protection and comfort. If the patient live to old age, the mucous coat is apt to be- come covered with vegetations, which, assuming malignancy, may fun- gate and bleed, and prove fatal. It has also happened, in the female, that the bladder has been in- verted and protruded through the,urethra, forming a vascular-looking tumour between the labia.t "Were this removed, under careless diag- . nosis, by knife or ligature, the most serious consequences must ensue. The true nature of the case may be ascertained by discovering the orifices of the ureters, and finding the whole tumour to be reducible within the pelvis. Sometimes it is irreducible. * Handyside, Edin. Medical and Siu-gical Journal. t Crosse, Tran-s. of Provincial Med. and Surg. Assoc. vol. ii. 1846 ; and Brit, and For. Eev., Oct. 1846, p. 319.