NECROSIS. 305 or conical form. If successful, the apices of the new, coming from either end of the old bone, meet find coalesce j and then this pith part of the substitute may attain to considerable bulk. After extrusion of the sequestrum, tlie new cortical portion falls inwards, as usual; and, com- bining with the central pith, a soKd and efficient substitute is ultimately obtained. Complete reproduction, however, is not to be expected in all cases. If a small portion only of the entire thickness perish—say half an inch, or an inch—doubtless it will be ultimately though slowly reproduced. The parts are equal to the task required of them. The bone, more especially, is quite able to overtake its part of the duty ; the osseous formation, fi-om either end, uniting to form a dense and compact reunion of the central portions of the shaft. In all cases, the periosteum, when left entire, is capable of executing its share; namely, formation of the cortical portion. But that is not enough. The cortical portion, if left to itself, after extrusion of the sequestrum, unsupported by an interior production from the bone, may shrivel and bend, prove altogether insufficient as a column of support, and ultimately be in a great measure removed by absorption. The two portions of bone will shoot out new matter, readily, so as to effect union by restoration to the extent of an inch or two. But in seeking to traverse a greater space, that portion of the reparative effort is likely to flag and fail. The new cones do not coalesce ; but taper finely off, each ending in a point coherent with the condensed soft tissues around. And therefore, practically, it must be remembered, that when a sequestrum has come away, including almost the entire shaft of a long bone, repro- duction can scarcely be expected to prove complete; for as such repro- duction must be looked for almost entirely at the hands of the periosteum, when the entire shaft perishes, there can be but little of the essential osseous elements left attached to it from which the process of reproduc- tion can occur. It is astonishing, however, how successful the restorative effort sometimes proves, even in circumstances by no means auspicious. In not a few instances, long bones have been almost wholly reproduced. And, therefore, in necrosis of the entire thickness of the shaft, even of great extent, a chance of cure in the ordinary way ought invariably to be afforded; taking special care, throughout the whole period of treatment, to keep the periosteum as entire as possible; and not to remove the dead shaft too soon, even if separation at its junction with the epiphysis has become complete, lest by so doing the collapse of the as yet but shghtly ossified granulating surface should produce a diminutive substi- tute, quite insuf&cient for the functions of the limb. The short bones, if whoUy necrosed, are never reproduced. And reproduction is also rare m the flat bones ; especially the cranium. Also, let it be borne in mind, that for suitable reproduction, under any circumstances, it is essential that the inflammatory process shall sub- side from its higher grades; otherwise, the product will consist of the destructive results of this process. In practice, indeed, our principal care IS directed to ward off acute inflammatory reaccession; knowing well that should this occur, repair will be interrupted; the cure will be at least delayed, and perhaps rendered wliolly abortive. X