853 WOUN"DS OF THE THROAT. ordinary care; as the muscle stands out iu relief, and makes the distance between its posterior surface and the vessels even greater than it is nor- mally. To secure safety iu this respect, some recommend to puncture witli the ordinaiy tenotomy knife ; and then, withdramng this, to substitute a similar instrument with a rounded point wherewith to effect the section of the muscle. In cuttiiig from within outwards, the lisk of dividing the sldn is much greater than that just mentioned, and requires on that account some attention on the part of the surgeon. Usually it is quite sufficient to cut the one origin ; hut sometimes divi- sion of both heads is essential. By resilience of the severed extremities, restoration of the normal state is at once produced ; and this is main- tained by suitable bandaging ; or a frontal hllet, with strap behind on one side, buckling to the corset or waistbelt, if need be, should be employed, until the muscle on the opposite side becomes so commensurately con- tracted as to be able to maiiitaiii the head in its proper position. A similar operation is the only means whereby we may expect to cure the third form of the affection; that proceedmg from structural change in the muscle by inflammatory results. Twisting of the neck is caused also by tumours—glandiilar and others ; as well as by the contraction of extensive burns, and disease of the cer- vical vertebrsB. The principles of treatment in these cases are obvious. Care should, however, be taken, in making a careful diagnosis between them and the forms of wry-neck suited to treatment by myotomy. Wounds of the Throat. Wounds of the throat are of two classes ; those inflicted by the hand of the suicide, or of the murderer ; and those made by the surgeon. The former now engage our attention. They are usually made in a transverse direction; and high in the neck—above or at the thyroid cartilage ; the latter circumstance being probably connected with the popular idea, that, to effect extinction of life, it is sufficient to open the air-passage, and so cause suffocation. The extent and consequent importance of such in- juries vary very much ; from mere scratches, penetrating no deeper than the subcutaneous areolar tissue, to the most ghastly severing of all tex- tures—almost to decapitation. Sometimes the incision is made imme- diately beneath the chin. Not unfi-equently it is placed between the hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage ; the mouth being opened into, and the epiglottis cut off or divided, wliile the air-passage is left intact. Some- times the weapon is drawn across, a little above the clavicle; and then, if any considerable depth be attained to, death is certain and immediate. Sometimes the knife, held as a dagger, is plunged into the lower part of the neck ; to the imminent risk of the larger blood-vessels. But the region of the larynx is that which is most frequently involved. Tlie first danger is by hemorrhage. If the carotid and jugular have heen reached, death is very speedy, and can scarcely be prevented. Such extreme woimds, however, are of comparatively rare occurrence ; the vessels being protected, high in their com'se,'by the depth of their situahon^ in reference to the front of the neck—especially during the position in which the head is held during the infliction of the wound—