1033 FEMORAT. ITKRNIA. in Avliich the taxis is applied should, liowever, bo more directly upAvards and backwards. In employing retentive measures, the pad of the truss should press directly upon the external abdominal ring. There is, therefore, no necessity for any obliquity in the form or position of the pad, which should bo round and flat upon the surface. A Salmon-and-Ody truss will usually be found better than the common bandage, in this form of rup- ture. Mr, L'Estrange has contrived an ingenious form of truss for the direct inguinal hernia, in wliich the pressui'e acts from below upwards. Mr. Wood recommends, especially for cases where an operation for the radical cure has been practised, that the pad should have an ovoid form, with a nearly flat surface and a central aperture. The action of this truss is calculated to approximate the borders of the external opening, while, by its adaptation to the form of the groove in the groin, it is less liable to be displaced than the common instrument. The same radical operations, by invagination of the cutaneous tissues, or by subcutaneous wire suture, as recommended by Mr. "Wood, are suited to this situation. In operating for relief of strangulation, the course of the epigastric artery, to the outer side of the neck of the tumour, should be borne in mind (Fig. 313), And in all cases of inguinal hernia, especially when strangulated—as the diagnosis between the direct and oblique form may be doubtful—it is a prudent rule to make the deep relieving incision directly upwai'ds, parallel to the linea alba; so, whatever the form of rupture, the artery is safe. Femoral Hernia. This is most frequent in females; the greater space, in the normal state of the parts, obviously favouring protrusion. Descent takes place through the crural aperture, within the inner compartment of the femoral sheath, and the protrusion becomes superficial by bulging for- wards through the saphenous open- ing of the fascia lata. The neck of the tumour is contained in the crural aperture ; the fundus, re- sisted in its descent on the thigh, makes a sharp turn upwards, and lies on the lower part of the abdo- minal parietes; the neck is beneath Poupart's ligament, the fundus may be above it, directed obliquely upwards towards the anterior supe- rior iliac spine. And this must be attended to in applying the taxis ; the tumour being invariably drawn downwards, and the fundus and neck brought into the same axis, ere the Fig. 314. rian of femoral hernia, a, The sac ; h, the femoral vein ; c, the artciy ; d, the abdominal ring ; c, section of the p.soasand iliacus muscles ;/, the acetabulum. —From Druitt.