VAIUX. tissue in operations as much as possible. Surgical opinion, no doubt, is divided upon this subject. One class of practitioners liave no dread of tying veins, and do not hesitate to do so, when venous hemorrhage is at all troublesome. Another, possessed of a salutary fear of phlebitis, with- hold the ligature, unless under circumstances of the most extreme urgency; and at all times are chary of disturbing the larger veins, by knife, linger, or forceps. In the latter class I would beg still to be in- cluded. Surely, if we err at all, it is well to do so on the side of safety. It should also be borne in mind, that the bad air of hospitals predis- poses strongly to the occnrrence of phlebitis of the worst kind ; and that therefore, in public practice, we should be especially careful of inter- ference with the venous tissue ; while at the same time we abstain from over-crowding of wards, and take every other means in our power to avoid induction of noxious atmospheric influence. Vartx. this term is understood an enlarged, elongated, and tortuous con- dition of the veins of a part; sometimes deep-seated, oftener intermuscular, and most frequently superficial. Often the intermuscular and subcutaneous vessels are simultaneously involved. Dilatation is not uniform but bulging, and is usually greatest at the site of the valves. These, no longer proportioned to the enlarged calibre, have become inojierative ; they exert no influence on the circulation; and ultimately shrink and almost dis- appear, in obedience to JSTature's law that what has be- come useless is taken away by absorption. The coats are not attenuated; but, on the contrary, are thick and rigid. The disease seldom occurs till after adult age. The limb beneath is liable to oedema; and its vital power, as well as its ordinary function, are more or less impaired. It is prone to assume the inflammatory pro- cess on its surface ; and this tends to the production of troublesome Eczema, or to the formation of ulcers of various kinds-—the irritable variety perhaps predomi- nating. The ulcer, spreading, may perforate the vein; and troublesome hemorrhage ensues. Pain and a sensa- tion of weight usually attend, independently of nlccra tion ; and sometimes alfected. neuralgia ance in occui's m the part The direct cause of varix is what- ever obstructs venous return ; for example, pressure on the venous trunk above, as by distended rectum, enlarged uterus, or any other tumour. It very frequently makes its appear- the lower extremities in young females about the period of puborty, Fig. 192. Yaiix ol' Uu; veins ol" llie leg.