328 OSTEOSARCOMA. The very fact of their existence in a Fig. 139. of attempting a protracted, under such circumstances certainly an impo - fect, and probably an abortive euro by incisioiL In the case of a lai-. bone where the cysts have attained to a large size, similar severity of pr.. cedure is even more requisite, as shewn in the accompanying illustration. After the treatment by incision, with partial ablation of the distended wall, and dressing from the bottom, the cure is often—nay generally— all that could be desired. Sometimes, however, the swelling is repro- duced, either by repetition of the cyst, or by solid formation coming in its room—osteosarcoma. Osteosarcoma. By this is understood a tumour composed partly of bone, partly (jf fleshy substance—as the name implies; the latter constituent of a simple and non-malignant kind. The formation is usually attributable to external injury, perhaps slight; and originates either in the cancellous texture of the interior of bone, or beneath the periosteum on its surface. The osseous part is analogous to the fibrous interlace- ment in tumours of the soft parts. It is, as it were, the stroma in which the other constituent is produced; dense, solid, and roughly granulated (Fig. 144) in some in- stances, in others spicular and foliated (Fig. 139), leaving interstices, more or less wide, in which the fleshy substance is lodged. The interstitial structure is of diflPerent kinds. In some cases, it is partly cartila- ginous ; in others, of a fibrous character; in others it is myeloid. Cells or cysts, too, are usually found; being probably formed from the fluescence of some portion of the tumour's substance, or from the gra- dual enlargement and coalescence of cer- tain cellular structures forming a part of the fleshy groAvth. These are filled vn\h fluid, sometimes glairy and clear, some- times serous and turbid. They are seldom of large size, but may be numerous. fleshy tumour indicates a tendency to further change in its intimate character; and thus it is that within them, as endogenous growths, or connected ydih. them, degenerations of such tumours into medullary cancerous formations begin. In those cases where this fleshy growth is developed in the interior of the bone, the exterior shell becomes expanded. And, as in enchondroma, the latter for a time retains its continuity, in some places even with an increased thickness, by new osseous formation; but, ultimately, at cer- Fig. 139. Osteosarcoma of tlio lower part of the feniur; iiiaeeratctl. The fleshy \)M t of the tumour reiuovcd, the spiculated osseous stroma remaius.