CHAPTER LXI. AFFECTIONS OF THE URETHRA. Stricture. Contraction of the urethra, iuterfermg with micturition, and rendering the process slow and painful, may depend on one of three different causes. 1. There may he Spasm of the muscles connected with the memhranous portion of the urethra, causing temporary ohstruction to its normal calibre at that part, as well as resistance to instruments attempted to be introduced ; and there is good reason to beheve that a similar result is sometimes occasioned, in the anterior portion of the urethra, by spas- modic action of the muscular fibres which have lately been shewn to form part of the normal structure of the urethra, and to extend throughout its whole length—continuous posteriorly with the muscular coat of the bladder.* These conditions are hable to be suddenly induced, by ordi- nary exciting causes, such as exposure to cold, the effects of a debauch, the presence of irritation about the anus, or the action of cantharides ; and they generally disappear readily—often rapidly—under ordinary treatment; such as chloroform, liip-bath, fomentation, opiate enema or suppository, perhaps a sedative by the mouth, rest, quietude, antiphlo- gistic regimen, and the use of laxatives—advantageously followed by the employment of tincture of the muriate of iron, should the symptoms continue. 2. The inflammatory process, by its attendant swelHng, may cause contraction. It may affect the lining membrane itself; either at one point, as in consequence of injury ; or over a considerable space, as in severe gonorrhoea—one of the symptoms of which, as we have seen, is an obvious diminution of the stream of urine, dependent on the con- tracted state of the canal. Or the inflammatory process may be exterior to the urethra ; in the substance of the prostate, in the areolar tissue of the perineum, or by the side of the rectum ; and the bulging of the phlegmon, or abscess, may not only diminish the calibre of the urethra, at the affected part, but may even shut it up altogether, causing retention of urine. The treatment of such a case has already been considered ; it is by aiitiphlogistics ; using the bistoury for evacuation of matter, or even at an earlier period before matter forms, while the tissues arc n yet only thickened, indurated, and congested. After incision, should iL patient still be unable to void his urine, and the bladder be distended, the catheter should be employed. 3. Tlie canal may be narrowed 1\ chronic structural change, occurring in the urethra itself; and this con- stitutes true or organic Stricture; a condition wliich is ever liable t'^ complication and aggravation, by the two preceding causes of contraction— * Hancock, Lancet, No, 1486, p. 187.