FKACTUKE OF THE RADIUS. 924 us completely to command tlie wrist joint. And, iu order to prevent the supposed effects of the pronator quadratus, a pad is recommended to be placed on either aspect of the fractured part, of sufficient size to occupy the-interosseous space fully, and so to offer a mccliauical obstacle to undue approximation. This, however, is practically either injurious or useless; if the pads are large enough, and the splints firmly enougli bound together to force them into the interosseous spaces, so as to keep the ends of the bone from undergoing displacement, the pain and the interruption to the circulation will oblige the apparatus to be taken do^vn; if applied more leniently, the pads can only i^revent the upper and lower parts of the splints from being in accurate apposition with the surface of the limb, and hence these fail in maintaining thorough repose of the parts. Fracture of the upper third of the ulna frequently accom- panies or complicates a dislocation of the head of the radius forwards; in fact, without some such provision to counteract the unyielding integrity of the interosseous membrane and inferior radio-ulnar ligaments, it is difficult to understand how the head of the radius could enter into the position it occupies in the dislocation forwards. AVTien this complicated injury occurs, after reducing the dislocation and coaptatiiig the fractured ends of the ulna, rectangular splints should be applied on the outer and inner aspect of the arm, extending from the shoulder and armpit to the end of the metacarpal bones ; and when the tendency in the head of the radius to pass forwards is very great after it has been reduced, the angle at which the forearm is placed with the arm may requii'c to be even less than a right angle. 4. Of the Styloid process.—This process may be chipped off, without other injury to the bone. Nelatou describes this injury, and laceration of the triangular ligament, as a common accompaniment of fracture of the lower part of the radius. There is Kttle indication for treatment beyond rest of the forearm and hand in splints, until pain and swelling have subsided. Fracture of the Radios. In this injury, it is convenient to observe, as an aid in diagnosis, that there is invariably abnormal pronation of the hand; whether the bone have suffered alone, or in company with the ulna. 1. At its Neck.—This is an accident of very rare occurrence, and diffi- cult diagnosis. The fragments are but little displaced, and crepitus has to be detected through a thick cushion of muscular substance. The lower fragment is tilted forwards and inwards sHghtly, by the action of the biceps ; the upper is rotated somewhat outwards by the supinator radii brevis. Crepitus is to be sought for by firm pressure over the site of suspected fracture, while free rotation is made of the hand and forearm. In treatment, the forearm is flexed, and placed in the middle state between pronation and supination ; long rectangular sphnts being appHed on either aspect of the limb, or a single sphnt placed on the external aspect of the forearm, with a pad over the radial siu-face at the bend ot the elbow, secured in its position to the splint by means of a figure of o bandage. . ^ 2. Near the Centre.—The radius sometimes gives v\ ay near its ceutie,