1165 CONSTITUTIONAL SYPHILIS. been satisfactorily determined. Some believe that the lymi^hatics form the portal by which it radiates its influences, others that the venous system acts as the channel for its conveyance from the sore into the general frame. Certainly, the lymphatics seem to be the parts upon which the poison first produces an anatomical effect; and it appears not unreasonable to suppose that in them and the blood-forming glands generally, the virus is stored up which produces continuous eff'ects upon distant and dissimilar parts during the early months of the systemic affec- tion ; and that from them, too, an altered nutritive fluid is aff'orded, which determines the diseased conditions which sometimes, at consider- able intervals—and these may be very long—evolve themselves, and constitute the later manifestations of the syphilitic infection. Looking at the symptoms of constitutional syphilis, as they sponta- neously discover themselves, we observe at once, that the aff'ections which characterise the commencement of the disease are totally distinct from those which appear near its close ; and that with the advance of the disease the nature of the aff'ections indicates a gradual deterioration of textuval vitality, and a tendency to more destructive if to less acute results. The early affections are for the most part superficial and acute ; impli- cating those parts which, as Mr. Hunter expressed it, are most exposed to cold. The later affections, on the other hand, are deeper seated, slower in their evolution, and more destructive in their tendencies. These two extremes, however distinctly and sharply defined from each other, are not found to be separated by any broad line of demarcation, but gradually merge, the one into the other; so that we have a class of symptoms mid-way between the two, which, on that account, have been called Transitional—the symptoms on the one side being by some classi- fied as Secondary, those on the other as Tertiary. There are, however, many who cannot admit such a rigid classification, believing that the symptoms are not only continuous but even transmutable. Sometliing of this kind is undoubtedly observed, in certain cases, when mercury is administered; the tertiary period being then advanced. By others, again, the term of tertiary is objected to in toto ; as they regard all the manifesta - tions included in this period as due to the administration of mercurials ; and therefore they assign to these the name of mermrio-syj^hilis or mei'- curial disease. Admitting without reserve the difficulty of completely separating between the secondary and tertiary developments, and recognising the convenience of the term transitional symptoms, we shall nevertheless con- sider constitutional syphilis as divided into secondary and tertiary affections. The earliest indications that the system is already affected, and therefore in strict phrase the earliest symptoms of secondary syphilis, are the indurated base of the chancre, and the indurated glandular enlargements. Next to those, which we have already fully considered, come the deranged state of the system indicated by the term chloro-ansemia, the syphilitic fever, the cephalic and osteocopic pains, which usually are more or less distinctly manifested in all cases before the appearance of