863 INJURIES OF THE HYOID BONE AND LARYNX. rotting, ty blows, by falls upon the front of the neck ; and in one case, it is alleged, by the muscular efforts elicited during violent coughing, lu the cases mentioned by Mr. South (Chelius' Sm-gery), where the injiu-y was found in three persons executed hy hanging, the fracture existed in the body of the bone ; but in most cases the fracture occurs at the junc- tion of the coruua with the body. In such cases there is always more or less swelling and ecchymosis of the neck ; sometimes ha3moptysis, and pain in moving the tongue or when pressure is made over the cornua of the bone; while, with the finger inserted into the throat in front and to one side of the epiglottis, the thumb or other hand supporting the parts externally, the mobility of the cornua and crepitus can be recognised. Some surgeons recommend that this fracture should be treated with the neck extended, some with the neck bent; the patient should be confined to bed; silence should be enjoined; and mastication and deglutition should be avoided as much as is possible. Fracture of the Laryngeal Cartilages.—Such an injury is a rare one, and has usually occurred in aged persons in whom ossification of the car- tilage has taken place; the fracture can easily, however, be produced artiicially in the unossified adult larynx in the dead body. The causes which, in narrated cases, have produced this accident, have been blows, garrotting, hanging, a kick from a horse, and falls in which the neck has come in contact with a projecting body. In all such cases, pain, discolouration from ecchymosis, loss of voice, cough, difiiculty in respira- tion and in deglutition, with crepitus on manipulation, have been mani- fest ; in some, bloody expectoration and emphysema of the neck have also occurred. The risk is from the immediate or ultimate interference with respiration which such an injury must entail. This may be pro- duced by displacement of the broken fragments, by extravasation of blood, or by inflammatory accession. The Ti'eatment should consist in repose of body and part, in the use of cold applications, which will check both hemorrhage and inflamma- tory seizure, and in a speedy resort to tracheotomy, should the embar- rassment threaten to prove fatal. When much displacement is manifestly present, it has been recommended to lay open the larynx and arrange the shattered fragments. Should the inflammatory process set in, anti- phlogistics should be enforced. A blow on the larynx may directly peril life by arresting respiration. The rima glottidis may be wholly shut, either by spasm of the occluding muscles, or by paralysis of their antagonists—more probably by paralysis of all the muscles concerned; or it may be but partially occluded, yet with such a tumult and difficulty of respiration as to render the case one of great and immediate hazard. And, under such circumstances, it is plain that the only prospect of relief is by tracheotomy—opening the windpipe below the injured part; the aperture being kept patulous, until the organ has recovered, and is able to resume its wonted functions in normal respiration. Rupture of the trachea, by external injury, may prove fatal, by rapid and extensive emphysema ; the pressure of this producing asphyxia more or less rapidly. Sometimes by violent straining efforts with the glottis closed, and the chest suddenly compressed, one of the intervals between