678 GONOKRHGEAL OPHTHALMIA. occurrence and completion of cicatrization. When the case is not m: until the swelling of the lids has become extreme, and it is difficult t< separate them so as to catch a glimpse of the cornea within, the externa commissure should be divided by means of a curved sharp-pointed knife the point of the finger being employed as a guide to its point beneall the free margin of the lid. When the acute stage is past, astringent especially the drops of nitrate of silver, should be continued till t]i( vasciilar structures regain their normal tone. Throughout the whole treatment, it is essential that matter be no allowed to accumulate beneath the swobi and shut lids; these are be gently opened from time to time, and the pus washed away by warn water. It ought always to be borne in mind, also, that the discharge is of contagious nature; and the patient, practitioner, and attendants, shou! guard accordingly against direct propagation of the disease. Such is the nature of the ordinary Purulent Ophthalmia. Tw varieties of the disease require a separate though brief notice. Ophthalmia Neonatorum.—By this term is understood Purule: Conjunctivitis occurring in the recently born child. It may be induci by mere want of cleanliness, by imprudent exposure of the delii organs of sight to intense hght, or by the direct application of o' stimuli. But in most cases it owes its origin to contamination of til conjunctiva by vaginal secretion—during parturition. The disease p sents its ordinary characters; and there is much risk of permanent 1 of sight by pearly opacity of the cornea, or the formation of staphylo: The treatment is founded on the same principles as already en elated. It is usually enough to employ simj)le ablution, frequent; repeated—perhaps every second hour; and a weak solution of nitrate silver is dropped into the eye, once a day, or oftener, as the copious fl( of the secretion requires. Great attention to cleanliness is to be alwai maintained, and the eyelids should be prevented from adhering togethi by applying a little simple ointment to their edges at night. Attentii is at the same time paid to the primse vias, and general system ; irtj tonics being invaluable in such cases. As children have been born with opaque comea3, it has been infe: that this disease may occur in utero. Such opacity, however, may the result of mere arrest in development, or due to congenital syphilis. Gonorrhceal Ophthalmia.—The application of recent gonorrhai matter, from the urethra to the conjunctiva, produces the most inte: form of purulent conjunctivitis. One eye ordinarily is affected; a: though it is seldom that both are inoculated at one time, double gonorrh ophthalmia is common enough; in this respect, therefore, we can: establish a difference from the common purulent conjunctivitis. T dusky colour of the conjunctiva, the swelling of a pre-auricular lympha: gland, and the primary implication of the ocular conjunctiva, have been spoken of as pathognomonic of the gonorrheal form of purule ophthalmia; but there are no sufficient facts in support of any of th( differential characters, and a considerable experience of such cases lea- me to the conviction that fallacy and fancy have had to do with thi