625 DEPRESSED FRACTURE. re slight, and are recedent rather than gravescent, the case is very diffe- ent. If we operate, then, it is only to fulfil the latter indication ; removal ,f the exciting cause of an apprehended inflammatory process. And then his other question arises :—Whether the continued pressure of a smooth .ortion of depressed bone, or the furtlier injury inflicted by perlbrmance ,f the operation, is the more likely to excite an untoward amount of his? Experience has answered to the effect that the greater risk is neountered by recourse to operation * And, consequently, the rule is, 0 refrain from operation in all cases of ordinary depressed fracture, n which symptoms of compression do not exist. Further : we know hat the brain has the power of slowly recovering under a certain amount »f pressm-e, even when that pressure continues undiminished. And, (onsequently, the rule of non-interference is extended also to those cases a which the symptoms of compression exist, but are by no means rgent, and seem to be slowly receding rather than on the increase. In oung subjects, the caU for artificial elevation must be especially urgent efore it can with propriety be obeyed. For in them, it is to be remem- ered, that besides the facility with which the bones of the cranial cavity ield at some other part to accommodate the compressed contents, a ^stem of mutual accommodation may be said to be in progress ; the rain not only becoming accustomed to its altered circumstances, but the mpressing agent being also gradually withdrawn—the bone, by its in- erent elasticity, slowly re-approaching its former level. In the adult, lere is not the same resiliency ; but then, too, something is done, on le part of the bone, to favour complete recovery of the functions of the icommoded organ. For after some considerable time, the depressed jrtion is found to have become wonderfully smooth on its internal sur- ce, and bevelled at its margins, by absorption ; not ceasing to press, at now pressing with all gentleness, on the parts beneath. In ordinary fracture with displacement, therefore, we do not inter- re by operation, unless symptoms of compression not only exist, but iisist, or are urgent. And while in these cases the operation may not bolly succeed—the compression being perhaps by blood as well as by >ne—still we believe that under such circumstances the operation is )t only advisable but imperative. In all other cases, we content lelves with the expectant and prophylactic treatment, as if depression |d not exist. When the fracture is compound, comminuted, and depressed—that when fragments are not only displaced, but completely detached from [e rest of the cranium—we of course do not hesitate, in all such cases, remove the loose fragments, with gentleness and care, whether symp- " 8 of compression exist or not. Yet such is not the doctrine incul- I * Abundance of cases are on record, testifying the power which the brain has in Fing long-contiuued pressure, with comparative impunity, so far as inflammatory Nssion is concerned. One very remarkable instance is related by Sir A. Cooper maes, p. 128), in which certain sj'mptoms of compression endured for upwards of teen months, in consequence of the existence of depressed fracture ; complete and post instant recovery following removal of the depression by operation at the end of P period. i j f