278 OSTITIS. deformity and lameness, and simulating other affections—as disease of the hip-joint, and curvature of the spine. When the affection occurs m short bones, more serious results may follow. The superior maxilla, for example, may enlarge so as to obliterate tlie antrum and the nasal- passages ; also encroaching on the orbit, and displacing the eye. And, in such circumstances, extirpation of the hypertrophied bone, either in whole or in part, may be undertaken. After partial removal, return of the growth need not be dreaded; and therefore in most cases where surgical interference is deemed expe- dient, total extirpation of the offending part—could we previously be certain that it was nothing more than a hypertrophy—would not be necessary. In its early stage, the treatment suitable to chronic perios- titis and ostitis should be resorted to. Ostitis. As already observed, periostitis cannot long exist, mthout the cor- responding portion of bone being more or less involved. But, not unfrequently, the inflammatory process commences in the latter texture. It may affect only the external surface, or orginate and exist chiefly in the interior, or involve the entire thickness ; and accordingly is termed External, Internal, or General Also, it may be either Acute or Chronic. Lilce periostitis, it may be the result of external injury, or atmo- spheric exposure ; or, the cause being constitutional, it may be termed idiopathic. Or the process may extend from the soft parts, involving both periosteum and bone secondarily ; as is not imlikely to happen in many cases of neglected phlegmonous erysipelas. And again, no predis- posing cause is found more frequent or certain in its operation than mercury ; more especially if this have been both profusely and unneces- sarily administered. The result of the process may be Interstitial Structural change; Suppuration, internal, external, or general; Ulceration, simple or carious; local Death, or Necrosis. Change of Structure. At first the bone is softened; by removal of part of its earthy consti- tuents, and an increase in the development of the corpuscular elements contained within the lacunas, which, by accumulation, produce a tissue structurally and functionally analogous to the medullary tissue, which, in cancellated bone, plays so important a part in its development. At the same time, the texture becomes more open; and on its surface fresh formation of bone takes place, presenting a porous aj)pearance compared with the old lamellated structure. This is due to the large proportionate amount of soft elements, and to the increased size of the vessels in the Haversian canals, required by the increased structural activity of the affected bone. In a section, the lamelliB are seen to be separated, the vascular canals widened, and the cancelli enlarged ; new cancelli, too, are formed, by the former ones communicating with one another. And