ViVEIETIES OF HYDROCELE. 1235 patient decidedly objects to the ordinary treatment by injection; yet, even then, palliative tapping by a small trocar is to be preferred. More recently wire setons have been employed; but this method has none of the simplicity and certainty which the method by injection has been so thoroughly proved by ample experience to possess, and should therefore never be put in competition with it. Children are liable to hydrocele. And in them treatment is very simple. We may succeed in dispelling the fluid, by discutient lotions— such as a solution of the muriate of ammonia ; or by the external appli- cation of iodine, used cautiously. Tailing in this, the serum is to be evacuated by the simple puncture of a lancet. And this, in the great majority of cases, is sufficient to effect a radical cure. The part swells, reddens, and is painful as after injection in the adult; and, on resolution being completed, the parts are found in a normal state. By the term Congenital Hydrocele, is usually understood a condition of parts such as leads to congenital hernia ; the vaginal process of peri- toneum not having become obliterated. The fluid consequently commu- nicates with the cavity of the peritoneum, usually by a small aperture; and may be made to disappear gradually from the scrotum, by pressure upwards. In treatment, the first object is to shut up the vaginal pro- cess ; and this may in general be effected, by the constant pressure of a truss. In the child, tliis may suffice for the whole cure j absorption of the fluid being afterwards hastened by discutient applications. In the adult, the ordinary treatment may be necessary ; but never is injection to be had recourse to, until we are satisfied that all communication with the peritoneum has been completely obliterated. To obtain this result, use of the truss is also important in another point of view. The testicle is liable to injury ; by slight injuries the inflammatory process may, at any time, be lighted up in the tunica vaginalis ; and, from thence, exten- sion to the abdominal peritoneum will be easy and direct, unless the communication have been closed. By Encysted Hydrocele is understood, an accumulation of serous fluid within a cyst, or cysts, independent of the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. Such adventitious formations are usually found connected with that portion of the tunica vaginalis which covers the epididymis ; but they may arise in connection with any part, either of that membrane or of the tunica albuginea. The growth is more irregular than in common hydrocele, and the tumour seldom attains to a large size ; the testicle is situated sometimes in front, sometimes on the lateral aspect; sometimes at the bottom ; seldom on the back part, as in the common form ; and the fluid is generally paler and less albuminous, than that which is found in the tunica vaginalis. When the bulk is such as to occasion incon- venience, tapping is had recourse to ; and, if nothing contra-indicate, injection may be practised. Should this fail—as is not unlikely, in the case of a plurality of cysts—the wire seton may be introduced, and retained until consolidation has occurred. The tunica vaginalis has been found the site of much calcareous change, and filled with turbid fluid containing cholesterine. In such a case, cure can result from nothing short of free incision ; and, after all, castration is, in most instances, preferable.