CHAPTER LII. IN"JURIES AND DISEASES OE THE CHEST. Fracture of the Ribs. The ribs are liable to fracture, usually from direct violence by a blow, or a fall upon the side, or from a crushing weight acting either directly upon the site of fracture, or over the sternum, and approximating it to the spine. The ordinary seat of injury is in the anterior third, or near the middle of the bones. The fracture may, however, be situated posteriorly, near the angle of the rib ; and no portion of the bone is free from the risk of breaking by direct violence. Yiolent contraction of the diaphragm, as in cough, has been occasionally known to produce fracture of one or more ribs. The fifth, sixth, and seventh, are most liable to injury, but any or all may break. The signs are, pain at the part, sometimes with discoloration and swelling; difficult breathing; full inspiration impos- sible—the attempt causing such aggravation of pain as to catch the breath ; obscure crepitus felt, when the palm is held over the part, during respiratory movement; or crepitus and mobility over the site of injury, when the rib is followed from before backwards by the fingers pressing heavily upon it. "When the fracture is situated near the angle or neck of the rib, its detection must be a matter of pure hypothesis—^at least in most cases ; and even when the lesion is in the middle or anterior part of the rib, diagnosis may be difficult or impossible, from the patient's inability to bear the requisite manipulation. Displacement, excejit in gunshot fractures—or occasioned by some excessively violent injury pro- ducing penetration, or complete crushing in of the thoracic walls—is seldom great; and, when caused by direct violence, is usually inwards. When, however, the fracture has been produced by a force acting upon the sternum, and compressing the chest, the displacement may be out- wards. The injury may be compound, with corresponding wound of the integuments. More frequently it is compound internally, by wound of the costal and pulmonary pleurae, and consequent communication with the lung ; the integuments remaining entire. Under such cii'cumstances, emphysema can scarcely fail to occur, to a greater or less extent; air escaping into the pleural cavity, from the lung, and during expira- tion becoming thence forced into the subcutaneous areolar tissue—puffing up the surface of the chest, and probably also extending to the necL Inflammatory affection of the pleura is also not unlikely to supervene, with or without the complication of puncture of the lung, as can readily be understood. Although, in a healthy patient, fracture of one or several ribs, even if followed by inflammatory complication, is usually speedily