THE INDURATED OR TRUE CHANCRE. 1151 eczematous peeling, sometimes a sloughing of the superficial dermal layers. Under all circumstances, it reaches its limits within a very few- days. Some authors allege that the discharge is inoculable in the individual himself who sutlers Irom it, or in others affected with consti- tutional syphilis, hut only during the first few days of its existence; when, in fact, the sore is in its stage of progress. Others, again, assert that an indurated chancre at any period of its existence, if irritated so as to render a purulent discharge from its surface, is capable of affording specific results upon inoculation in syphilitic patients. In such circum- stances, however, it is acknowledged that, in the base or margin of the sore so produced, no induration occurs. Such second-hand sore is merely a chancre with a soft base, and followed by no glandular enlarge- ment or constitutional symptoms. This fact might, at first sight, be supposed to have given us the clue to the source of the common soft chancre; and, accordingly, some have assumed that it is merely a degen- eration of the chancre with the indurated base. But unfortunately for such a theory, the chancre with the soft base occurring in a syphilitic subject may have two sources; either a simple soft chancre, or an indu- rated chancre. But the chancre, under such circumstances, which has been derived from the indurated sore, and which in its transmission to the syphilitic patient has lost its specific induration, at once developes its specific characteristic when communicated to a patient who has never had syphilis, and reappears as the true indurated chancre. This sore, when of large size, with the induration, both basal and marginal, well-developed, heals slowly; as the dense cartilaginous hard- ness of the texture in which the sore is implanted prevents cicatri- cial contraction. And in such cases, when it does heal, the cicatricial pellicle is apt to give way from the most trifling causes; thus repro- ducing an ulcer upon the old site. The ulcerated surface is also liable to an early transformation into a condylomatous surface, while the sore still retains its specific qualities, and is quite capable of transmission by inoculation to a previously non-infected subject; a fact of much importance in serving to explain some of the cases where the trans- mission of secondary affections is alleged to have occurred. This trans- formation of the indurated chancre into a condylomatous surface has been denominated "a transform<ition in situ." The tender, easily excoriated surface of a cicatrized indurated sore is specially liable to become affected by the soft chancre virus, if the part is exposed to it • the result being that a soft chancre with its ordinary characters becomes engrafted upon the special characteristic of the indurated infecting chancre. In such circumstances, the history of the case can alone pre- clude the risk of error in coming to any conclusion as to the true nature of the sore and its consequences, or prevent false conclusions in experi- menting with the virus obtained from it. This form of engrafted chancre must, however, be carefully distinguished from what has been called the mixed chancre. The mixed form of Chancre.—Here the patient, from a suspicious connection, has been exposed to the influence of the virus of both the soft and the indurated chancres. Within a few days, the soft chancre appears, with Its characteristic pustular commencement, and runs its usual course