PARACENTESIS CAPITIS. 636 tunate. The affection is sometimes simulated, however, by coagulum A mass of clotted blood, mixed with inflammatory products, but con- taining little or no cerebral substance, may protrude; presenting almost the same appearances as the genuine tumour. This is amenable to more summary treatment, and bespeaks a more hopeful issue—although usually a sign of an active inflammatory process having seized on the part, and calling for a proportionate activity in antiphlogistics. The projection is at once removed, by knife or fingers; and support by pressure is applied to the cranial aperture. Paracentesis Capitis. The operation of tapping the brain in chronic hydrocephalus, known to Hippocrates, and practised by the surgeous of the middle ages,* enjoys in the present day no great repute. Of modern practitioners, Dr. Con- quest has shewn the greatest favour to the procedure ; and his experience of it has been by far the most productive of success.t Of nineteen cases in which the operation was performed, ten were " living when last heard of."J Dr. West has collected, from various sources, fifty-six cases; § of which forty died, sixteen only recovering. Of the fatal cases, six died within four days ; six within fourteen days ; three within one month ;i nine within three months ; only one survived the puncture six months and none survived the last puncture more than thirty-five days. Death took place either by exhaustion, or under cerebral sj^mptoms. In manyi cases, in addition to the presence of much fluid, the substance of tli brain was found softened ; and, besides, " there existed in sixteen of th, cases serious organic disease, or malformation, of the brain itself." The serous accumulation usually takes place within the ventricles ^ and the brain, if not congenitally deficient, is spread out and attenuated, with its convolutions smoothed away; the ventricles ultimately consti- tuting one large cavity covered by a thin layer of cerebral substance,^ "which lies immediately beneath its own membranes. Sometimes, on the other hand—though comparatively rarely—the liquid is immediately ■within the dura mater; and the brain, which in these cases is usuallj partially deficient in its commissures, lies at the bottom of the serov cavity. In the former class of cases, the communication between th ventricular serous cavity and the external arachnoid will be found occluded, by inflammatory, syphilitic, or scrofulous product occurring irj the membranes. The ventricular cavity thus becomes converted into closed cyst, and increases in size at the expense of the brain substanca' by which it is enclosed. Eemedial means in chronic hydrocephalus consist of alterative purgai tives, with mercurials, and iodide of potassium, assisted by gentle counter* * Philosopli. Transact, vol. xlvii. Ann. 1751. t Medical Gazette, March 1838. _ J t In Dr. Conquest's cases, the greatest quantity of fluid drawn oflT at one time wad §20i ; the largest total quantity 357, or g58 ; the greatest number of operations u j any one case, live ; performed at intervals of from two to six weeks. § Medical Gazette, April 15, 1842.