CHAPTER LIV. AFFECTIONS OF THE ABDOMEN. Tumours of the Abdominal Parietes. These demand early attention, lest, by long continuance and enlarge- ment, they become unfavourably connected with the deepest portion of the parietal layers. The adipose is, perhaps, more common tlian any other form of tumour in this situation. In dissecting it out, the pre- liminary incisions should penetrate quite into the substance of the fatty matter; thereby facilitating extraction, and avoiding unnecessary depth and extent of incision. Bruise of the Abdomen. Contusions of the abdominal parietes, without rupture of any of the viscera contained in the cavity, may prove serious, especially when affecting the epigastric region ; as the sudden shock inflicted on the solar ganghon may induce fatal syncope, and still leave no trace behiad in post-mortem examination. A remote consequence of bruise of the abdominal parietes may be such weakening of the muscles at the injured part, as to permit bulging there, even amounting sometimes to hernial protrusion. In all cases, contusion of this part should be regarded as important, when shock is present ; on account of the possible occurrence of injury to the abdominal contents, the existence of which time alone can deter- mine. The risks of contusion affecting the abdominal contents are three- fold :—1st. Fatal shock. 2d. Laceration of internal parts or organs, with internal hemorrhage, or extravasation of irritating secretions into the peritoneal cavity. 3d. Peritonitis. (1.) The shock rarely proves imme- diately fatal, except in the injuries to the solar ganglion ; and even such a cause of instant death has been denied by some authors. When extra- vasation of the contents of the gall bladder, intestines, or urinary bladder occurs into the peritoneal sac, the symptoms present are : intense burning pain affecting the abdomen—both generally, and specially in the site of the lesion; the features become shrunken and doath-Hke, the surface is covered with a cold clammy perspu-ation, the pulse grows small and frequent, the voice is broken and child-like, the patient complains of insatiable thirst, and vomiting of stuff resembhng coffee-grounds fre- quently sets in before the fatal termination. In such cases, the patient rarely survives for two days ; and while he may die within a few hours, he usually lives for about twenty-four hours after the accident. If life is prolonged for a day or two, the shock probably passes off; and symp-