456 TEEATMENT OF NEUKALGIA. are to be excised; foreign matter, lodging in the neighbourhood of the nerve, is to be carefully taken away. If chronic yet recent change of structure be suspected in the substance of the nerve, at some distant point, let moderate leeching, followed by patient counter-irritation, be employed at that part, with the view of remedying such change ; assisted, if need be, by the internal use of iodide of potassium, or other auxiliaries to discussion. If the brain or spinal cord be suspected, treatment should be mainly directed to these important parts. It is not uncommon to find neuralgia connected with great tenderness of certain vertebrae ; and such cases often yield readily to leeching there, followed by counter- irritation and rest. To the seat of pain, various applications may be made. In some cases, it has been thought that good has resulted from use of the moxa or actual cautery; but such remedies are more suitable to those parts where actual change of structure is either known or suspected. Sooth- ing applications are more appropriate to the seat of neuralgic pain. Opium, belladonna, aconite, may be used in the form of epithem, oint- ment, or liniment; or their salts may be exhibited by the skin—either by inoculation, or after abrasion of the cuticle by vesication ; or, still more efiiciently, a solution of morphia or of atropine may be injected into the part—superficially or deep, according to the circumstances—by means of a fine syringe with needle point. This seldom fails to give relief, more or less—at least for the time. Yeratria, hydrocyanic acid, and the tinc- ture of physostigma (Calabar bean), are also not without their effect as local anodynes. Simple blistering, dry cupping, rubefacients, and acu- puncture, sometimes are of service. Internally, anodynes may be given. In some cases, it is of the utmost importance to palliate in this manner, without any expectation of cure ; preventing exhaustion of the frame from continued intensity of pain. Opium may thus be found useful in large doses ; and yet it should alwaj's be used warily, lest it accelerate and aggravate the cerebral dis- order which the disease itself tends to induce. Inhalation of chloroform may sometimes abate a paroxysm ; and can at all times command tem- porary relief from suffering. But its habitual use is not safe—for obvious reasons. And probably no palliative of this nature is on the whole at once so safe and so efficient as the anodyne injection of the part. The amount injected, as well as the frequency of repetition, must vary according to the effect. Sometimes once every second or third day may sufiice ; in other cases the little operation must be done daily. Too frequently the anodyne efi'ect is but palliative and transient; in some few cases, however, such injection patiently and judiciously perse- vered in seems really to contribute to the cure. Not a few remedies are exhibited internally, almost with empiricism ; considered available to counteract that hidden perversion of system on which neuralgia seems much to depend. Subcarbonate of iron is given in large doses ; along with occasional laxatives, to prevent the bulky medicine from accumulating in the interior. It is especially useftd in those cases, in which the disease is obviously connected with an anaMmc condition. Quinine and arsenic are both of much repute, especially in those cases in which periodical accessions are most marked. Colchicum