1363 AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER. the transfixion, the same care and attention are required to avoid locking the knife, or cross-cutting the skin. This is managed by inclining the loiife's edge toward the bone, and away from the skin of the posterior flap, as the point is thrust beneath the acromion. The point of the knife should, furthermore, cut its way round the head of the bone, before the heel of the blade is permitted to commence the sweeping inci- sion which completes the flap. In some cases, the operation is performed otherwise ; the surgeon transfixes transversely the deltoid muscle, immediately below the acro- mion ; having cut a large external flap, disarticulation is effected ; and the textm-es on the axillary aspect of the humerus are divided—not directly below the acromion, but at a point corresponding to the insertion of the muscles forming the anterior and posterior folds of the axilla. In cases of injury requiring amputation at the shoulder, often none of these methods will suit the exigencies of the case; all leverage power controlling the head of the bone being lost by the fracture or comminution of the shaft and neck of the humerus. In such circum- stances, Larrey's method should be preferred. In it the limb is removed by two curvilinear incisions; one on the anterior, the other on the posterior aspect of the shoulder; commencing above, at the acromion, and terminating beneath, either by a continuous straight line of inci- sion across the flopr of the axilla, or by the anterior incision being prolonged from the margin of the pectoral, where it ends, to meet the termination of the posterior at the border of the latissimus dorsi muscle. In performing this operation, a short six-inch amputating knife is most convenient. The operator thrusts its point perpendicularly iuAvards, beneath the acromion; and cuts downwards, parallel to the fibres of the deltoid for a couple of inches. He then sweeps the edge in a curvilinear direction, first forwards, and then backwards, as far as the. axillary borders ; disarticulates ; and, everting the head of the bone, clears its neck of soft parts—dividing the textures in the floor of the axilla, between the two incisions, either from within outwards, or from without inwards, with a concluding sweep of the knife. When the neck of the bone is so shattered as to afford no hold for fingers or forceps, disarticulation is faci- litated by carrying the forefinger into the shoulder-joint, so as to direct the knife in dividing the tendons of the supra and infra-spinati and sub- scapularis muscles. In gunshot wounds, when the laceration is very great, no formal flaps can be shaped from the shreds of soft parts which remain, so as to conform to any of the more regular methods abeady described. The operation may, in such circumstances, consist in little else than dis- secting out the shattered head of the humerus, and cutting through the fleshy, cutaneous, and tendinous tags which still attach the arm to the trunk. The axillary artery, whether bleeding or not, should always be secured by ligature; and the axillary nerves should be shortened, by drawing them out, and dividing them, while the patient is under chloro- form. Such a raw, irregular surfiice, often heals both rapidly and kindly by cicatricial contraction. In many cases of bullet-wound, with com- minution of the head of the bone, excision of the shattered bone and its articulating surface will be found to suffice without sacrificing the whole Hmb.