1271 LEUCOliiniUiA. Leucorrhoea Is a nosological terra, used to indicate a state of disease having discharge of a mucous or muco-purulent character from the vagina as its most jaro- luinent phenomenon. Apart from its occurrence as a symptom of almost all the more serious uterine affections, it is the most common of female diseases; and occurs in a great variety of forms. The discharge commonly called " Whites," may exist without any defined disease in the vagina or uterus, and may be the result of general debility and relaxation of system, especially if in a scrofulous constitu- tion ; or it may occur dming amenorrhcea. Occasionally it supervenes after the manner of a common catarrh. Often, also, it is a persistent excess of secretion post partum. In such a case, if examination be made by the speculum, no organic lesion may be discovered. Sometimes, however, the mucous membrane of the cervix uteri is found red and injected, or slightly abraded—and a long tag of clear viscid mucus generally hangs from the os. The surface of the vagina is covered by a dense white mucus. In this, as well as in all other forms of leucorrhoea, the symptoms complained of by the patient may be either few or numerous. They are a class of symptoms common to aU uterine affections—viz., disorders of the menstrual function ; pain in the back and loins, in the hypochondria, across the hypogastrium, and down the limbs ; feelings of bearing down and unnatural weight in the perineum; besides the ordinary accompani- ments of disordered stomach and bowels. In most such cases, no local treatment is required. On the contrary, by causing excitement and irri- tation, it would probably aggravate the complaint. Cold sponging, or the cold hip-bath, with attention to the general health, will suffice. The tincture of cantharides, and the various preparations of iron, taken inter- nally, often seem to have a good effect in diminishing the discharge. If the case be one of vaginitis, simple or specific, there will, in addi- tion to the other symptoms already mentioned, be those of febrile acces- sion, along with much local pain, irritation of bladder, ardor urinre, pain in defeecation and in walking. The discharge will not be white and mucous, but muco-purulent. In such circumstances, vaginal examina- tion will reveal a preternaturally red colour, and generally a papular or granulated appearance of the mucous membrane, mth much tenderness. Treatment consists in maintaining the horizontal position, fomenting or poulticing the parts externally, and internally using a bland or sedative injection ; besides employing laxatives, and aU the ordinary treatment of gonorrhoea as it occurs in the female. Especial care must be taken against the disease assuming a chronic form. The most frequent cause of these leucorrhoeal complaints, when they come to demand local treatment, is an inflaming, idcerated, or other- wise morbid state of the cervix uteri. The disease may occur in an acute form, but is more frequently met with as a chronic complaint. The symptoms are severer than in tlio case of " whites," and the general health at length suffers severely. The discharge may vary much in quantity, it may also be of various consistence, it may be muco-purulent or ahnosb pure pus, and it may, or may not, be tinged with blood. If of long con-