886 TRACHEOTOMY. venous. During the incisions this is to ha guarded against Ly caution in the phvcing and nialcing of them ; more especially avoiding the autciicjr, jugular, and thyroid veins, which are sure to be found large and bulging in the lower and front part of the neck ; and if any stray vessel be en- countered, it should be held carefully out of the way by an assistant. Arterial branches, which spring, are to be secui'ed by ligature; venous orifices, which bleed so as to interfere with the progress of the operation, might be similarly treated ; in most cases, however, it is unnecessary to delay for any such purpose, temporary pressure being applied. It has been often proposed, with a view to render the operation both more simple and safe, to perforate the trachea by means of a trocar and canula; discarding the Icnife ; and ingenious instruments for this purpose have been invented by Dr. Marshall HaU, and others—such as a grooved sharp hook, for guiding the knife in its plunge, and forceps terminating in a curved double lancet point, with cutting edge behind. _ Most prac- tical surgeons, however, prefer, with reason, the method by incision. _ In all cases, it is obviously of much importance to keep the patient in an equable and genial temperature, to cover the wound with some cloth of loose texture, and to take every other means which may sug- gest itself, as likely to ward off inflammatory accession by the stimulus of cold air dii-ectly applied to the membrane—as m the case of cut ^^^In the child, operation may be rendered extremely difficult; by the restlessness of the patient, the crying and struggling which engorge the veins, the small size of the trachea, the limited space of the neck, the number of veins likely to be encountered, and the intolerance of loss ot blood on the part of the system. The dissection must be conducted with unusual caution ; and it is well, after exposure of the trachea to fix it by means of a sharp hook, so as at once to facHitate and render more safe the performance of the tracheal wound. So soon as this has been effected, the child should be instantly tiu-ned upon its face so as to prevent, as far as possible, escape of blood into the trachea. On cessa. tion of the hemorrhage, the ordinary position may be resumed, should the circumstances of the case render this expedient. _ In most cases, anaesthesia will be considered mexpedient, except during exploration by forceps after the operation has been performed, on account of the lodgment of a foreign body. Disease of the Cervical VertehrcB. The chain of cervical vertebrae, like other bones, ^v;ith their articu- lating surfoces, is liable to diseases of various kinds :—l lhe bodies ot the vertebrae may be interstitiaUy absorbed, from ncketty, simple m- flammatory, or rheumatic change in their osseous tissue. Then a grca cr or less deg ee of curvatiu-e is Hkely to ensue ; the head usua ly bending forwards, with deviation to one or other side; and in the latter forn^ theTe is not un&equently some thickening of the soft parts exteriorly, ia consequence of a concurrent chronic inflammatory process slowly ad- ^^ncTXre. 2. Or the bodies of the vertebra, flrst undergoing change rSw" V a softening of the osseous tissue, ai. aflected by sup-