784 TUMOURS OF THE LOWKU JAW. irregular surfiico, and whitish aspect—at all events, not more vascular than the surrounding normal gum, It increases sloAvly in size, loosening and i displacing the tcotli in the neighbourhood; those occupying tlie gum the situation where the tumour has originated, becoming eitlier irre^^u- larly placed upon the surface or extruded. When left to itself, altliou<rh it may attain to a very largo size, impeding articulation, deglutition, and ijj even respiration, the body of the bono has no tendency to become affected—the tumour developing itself under the mucous membrane and towards the mouth. In the superficial form, it is sufficient during the early stage of its development to remove the tooth implicated in the growth, and to excise the morbid structure by means of the knife ; repressing subsequent ten- dency to growth, if need be, by the application of an escharotic. AVlien the bone is involved, it is essential that the affected portion shall he taken away; and this is readily effected by removing a tooth on either aspect of the alveolar margin from wliich the tumour is developed, and cutting through the sound bone beyond by means of curved cutting- pliers. The malignant form is more rare. At a very early period not only is the bone affected, but the mucous membrane of the gums and cheeks becomes involved ; the surface ulcerates and fungates; and the disease is attended, like other instances of medullary disease, witli severe pain, a cachectic aspect, and a profuse bloody loathsome discharge, while it spreads rapidly in all directions. Obviously, the only remedy is by ablation; and that at a comparatively early period. Sometimes, malignant disease commences in the mucous membrane covering the gums of the upper jaw, not with the formation of tumour, but at once by ulceration—a form of epithelial cancer. The loss of substance speedily destroys the alveoli and their contents, and, opening into the antrum, with implication of the masseter, coronoid process, and the pterygo-maxillary fossa, discloses a foul and hideous sore, which is usually, from an early period, quite beyond the reach of surgical inter- ference. Tumours of the Lower Jaw. The lower jaw is liable to be the seat of abscess, and of cystic disease,! as well as to be occupied by both osteosarcoma and osteocephaloma.i Abscess usually forms in connection with and around the fang of a decayed tooth. When the affected tooth is situated anteriorly, the abscessJ rarely attains to a large size, and usually opens either towards the niouth j or beneath the symphysis or base of the jaw. Posteriorly, where the bone^ is thicker, the collection of matter may be confined by dense osseous waUs supporting the granulating membrane which lines the abscess-sac. Such cases are rare, and may readily be mistaken for solid tumours form- ing within the bone and gradually extending outwards. The presence of a decayed tooth, or a yielding point on the inner or outer side of alveolar margin, should always excite a suspicion that an abscess sxistsjl^ii within. In such circumstances the removal of the tooth, followed by free opening made into the cavity of the abscess by means of a trephnic should be had rccourse to.