JRACTURE OF THE HUMERUS. 917 retaiBed in its ovdinaiy position by llie muscles inserted into the tuber- cles ; the separated articular facet of the humerus, usually, from the force which has occasioned the fracture, rotates on itself, so that the cartilagi- nous lower margin is in contact with the fractured surface of the shaft. Sometimes even impaction takes place, tlie upper fragment being driven into the cancellous tissue of the lower ; a circumstance favourable to osseous and speedy reunioiL When there is no impaction, the detached head of the bone may become necrosed; and in that event inflammatory disorganization may be expected, for extrusion of the sequestrum. The symptoms, beyond pain, impairment of voluntary motion, swelling, ecchy- mosis, and crepitus, are very imdecided. Where any deformity occurs, it consists in flattening of the upper deltoid region beneath the acromion, and shght shortening of the arm. The crepitus, in such cases is most easily felt when the deltoid region is grasped beneath the acromion in an antero-posterior direction, or when the fingers are lodged in the axilla while the thumb is placed beneath the acromion, and adduction and abduction, with rotation, are effected as gently as possible. 2. Fracture, ly Separation of the Epiphysis.—This also is the result of direct violence, and only occurs in young persons before osseous union of the epiphysis to the shaft is complete. The head of the bone remains in its place; while the shaft is carried foi"wards beneath the coracoid process, by the action of the muscles inserted into the bicipital ridges. There is no flattening of the shoulder beneath the acromion ; the head of the bone can be felt in situ, motionless on rotation; the end of the shaft—directed obKquely upwards, inwards, and forwards—is felt and seen projecting beneath the coracoid process ; the arm is not shortened, for the broad fractured surfaces rarely pass clear of each other; there is no projection of the elbow from the side; by slight extension and coap- tation Anth the fingers in the axilla, adjustment is readily efiected, and then crepitus is emitted on adduction and abduction with rotation. The most characteristic sign is the remarkable prominence beneath, and to Ibhe outer side of the coracoid, produced by projection there of the end of ■the lower fragmeut of the bone at the seat of fracture ; the projecting lend is sometimes so marked as almost to have penetrated through the fciin, and when reduction is effected the retreating bone sometimes Kimples in the sldn along with it. When impaction occurs, the signs of ■njury are necessarily obscured by the lower fragment being driven into Bhe upper, so diminishing the degree of transverse displacement, I 3. Fracture at the BiLrcjical Neck.—This is also the result of direct ^olence. The upper fragment remains nearly in its place, its fractured ■oiface moved more or less completely upwards and outwards by the •ctiou of the muscles inserted into the tubercles. The upper end of the ■ower fragment, or shaft, is drawn upwards and close to the side by the ^uscles inserted into the bicipital ridges; its lower end, at the elbow, ■s abducted by the action of the deltoid on its point of insertion, while mm limb is shortened by the muscles which pass from the scapula to the ■nmerus. The appearances consequently are—no flattening of the upper Wltoid region, on the contrary rather a fulness beneath the acromion ; ■be head of the bone felt plainly in situ, motionless on rotation ; the ■Pper end of the shaft at the seat of fracture Iblt displaced towards