378 WOUNDS OF JOINTS. not discover our mistake until loss of texture and function has become not only great but wholly irremediable. Wounds of Joints. "Wounds, penetrating into the more important joints, are invariably as among the gravest of injuries; and the danger is by suppurative synovitis. To the prevention or mitigation of this, treat- ment is be directed. The signs of the accident are not indistinct. The nature of the wea- pon ; the manner and degree of force with which it was applied ; the extent, position, and form of the wound ; the trickling of synovia, in the form of a viscid fluid, along with the ordinary serous discharge which the wound affords ; the presence of a shock to the general nervous system, more or less intense—these, in the great majority of cases, are sufficiently plain indications of the joint having been opened. It is wholly unneces- sary to use either the probe or finger, in exploration. Meddlesome sur- gery is never good; and in no case is it more decidedly bad than here. Many a joint may, under suitable treatment, resist the original injury successfully ; but few are able to escape with impunity, from wound fol- lowed by rude, unskilful, unnecessary exploration. When the lesion is of the lacerated or bruised kind, synovitis is ine'\'itable. The track of the wound can heal only by granulation, which is invariably preceded by suppuration ; and such affection of one part of the synovial membrane may scarcely be restrained from overspreading the whole. All that is in our power, under such circumstances, therefore, is to mitigate what we cannot avert. When the wound is simple and incised, however, the object of our treatment is altogether prophylactic. By absolute rest, rigid antiphlo- gistic regimen, and the continued application of cold, during the period of incubation ; by loss of blood, general and local, timeous and plentiful, so soon as inflammatory excess threatens to supervene ; by calomel and opium, antimony, or other selection from the more powerful antiphlogistic remedies—we avert the suppurative crisis from both the interior of the joint and the wound's track; so obtaining for the latter union by adhe- sion. In favour of this result, disuse of suture is usually advisable; approximation being intrusted to plaster and position. But the metalhc sutures may be used cautiously, if a stitch or two would favour more accurate approximation. Over the wound a pledget of lint should be laid, and retained by means of strips of plaster or a bandage ; as by that mode of dressing another important indication may be fulfilled—exclu- sion of atmospheric influence. When suppuration of the synovial membrane has occurred—as will sometimes be the case, notwithstanding our best care—more or less struc- tural change takes place in that texture. It becomes thickened, infil- trated, and coated by plastic formation ; at some parts, it may be broken by ulceration. Euin of cartilage and bone is not unlikely to follow. Such cases are to be treated on the principles already inculcated for simi- lar disease of a non-traumatic origin. The symptoms are certain to prove most urgent. The inflammatory fever will be of the gravest kind ; and,