SPERMATOllRlIGiA. 1242 most suitable in cases of irritability ; tlio latter given, in very guarded doses, for the more chronic examples. Musk, cantliarides, steel, cold salt-water bathing, and other tonics, may also be of service; and diet should be generous. The marital and mental cases may be left to work their own cure. Spermatorrlicea. An irritable state of the spinal cord, testicles, seminal vesicles, bladder and uretlira, with a turgid and especially irritable condition of the prostatic portion of the lu-ethra, leads to frequent and involuntary emis- sion of the seminal fluid. In speaking of this as a diseased condition, it should be borne in mind that the occasional occurrence of emissions of seminal fliud in robust, healthy adolescents, and adults—especially between the commencement of puberty and thirty years of age—who lead perfectly chaste and regular hves, cannot be considered as a state of disease, or checked by treatment unless of a kind calculated to enfeeble and exhaust the system.. In some cases, the emissions only occur when from any cause the bodily health suffers from intense mental appHcation, and when at the same time the appetite for food is greater than what is normal. By much the most frequent cause of the commencement of this morbid state is masturbation; and, next in order, comes excess in venereal in- dulgence :—not when these depraved practices are indulged; but usually as soon as the patient, for any reason, after a long continuance, gives them up. Stricture, prostatic diseases, and irritation communicated from dis- eased rectum, are common causes of minor forms of the affection. In consequence of the irritability, an impression much inferior to the normal stimulus sufiices for production of seminal discharge. Slight venereal excitement, by day or night, causes emission ; and the contents of the prostatic crypts and seminal vesicles are also discharged during straining at stool, and by the elfort of evacuating the last drops of urine in mictu- rition. It is a curious fact in the etiology of this affection, that the patient experiences none of the dejection, depression of mind, and sense of excessive languor and nervous exhaustion, with giddiness, muscaj volitantes, pain in the head and loins, which are usually complained of by him, when he seeks professional counsel, till he has read some of the disreputable quack books which pretend to treat of this disease, and which are so diligently circulated by designing scoimdrels among lads attending public schools and educational institutes. It is but a fair inference, therefore, that in many cases at least, these symptoms are only the result of an excited imagination. This, directed with an unusual acuteness of perception to every ache and pain, every change of colour, every alteration in the condition of the urine, and even to the frequency Avith which it is passed, will discover states of system which tally with the highly-coloured and exaggerated pictures delineated in those secret monitors, which they fear to read, yet cannot refrain from. In such cases, accordingly, the unfortunates ultimately become the victims of a perverted imagination; and, like mesmerised creatures, will follow with avidity every suggestion of the wretches who have gained their ear. The object of such authors is simply to put money into their own pockets ; and so long as tho foolish youth can be plucked by them, they keep him