TREATMENT OF CONCUSSION, GOO turns. In the slighter ex<amples of injury, there may he no further pro gi-ess made untowardly. Eeaction does not prove excessive. The liead is confused and giddy for a day or two ; hut the pulse remains quiet; and, within a few days more, all has passed off in safety. 3, Excessivf; reaction. The inflammatory symptoms set in, and a state opposite i<. that of depression is estahlished; all is excitement and perversion, hot], in the general circulation, and in the functions of the hrain; and life i hrought into imminent jeopardy, hy plu^enitis, or menengitis, and 1- proportionate inflammatory fever. Such immediate inflammatory con.s^ quences may he certainly anticipated in all cases where laceration o the hrain substance has occurred. Treatment.—This necessarily varies according to the severity of tli injury, and the intensity of its results ; hut more especially is it differei according to the stage and progress of the case. A man'stunned hy a hlo or fall, and labouring under concussion, is often bled on the instant—o an attempt, at least, is made to bleed him—by the rash and thoughtle- practitioner. In other words, a fresh and powerful agent of depression i exerted on the general circulation, when such depression is already great and has probably brought life to the very verge of extinction. K bloc' flow from the wound in venesection, under such circumstances, perhaps lii is lost; at all events, the direct untoward result of the injury is aggravated and the case is rendered both more urgent and more protracted than otherwise would have been. The lancet is certainly not to be use( during this stage. In many cases we should be httle more than passi\ spectators. The depression is not extreme, nor giving indications ( long continuance; signs of reaction, on the contrary, are slowly man festing themselves; and we await the natural progress of events. K( altogether idle, however. Although not engaged in active treatment, are prepared for activity, when circumstances shall call for our interfe ence. The patient is stripped and put to bed. His whole body is car fully examined. He cannot tell us whether or not other parts have bee injured. Besides an anxious investigation as to the existence or not > internal injuries, we must carefully examine each joint and bone ; d tecting fracture or dislocation, and having it immediately rectified, whi circumstances are all so peculiarly favourable for the required manipul tions. On recovering his senses, he has not to complain of a painful ai distorted limb, now for the first time observed; but finds what was di torted duly replaced, and aheady some way advanced in the process repair. The head is carefully shaved, should that be deemed necessary and is placed on pillows, considerably elevated. If wound of the sea exist, hemorrhage, if need be, is arrested; and approximation is efiecti in the ordinary way. Should the depression prove great and continued, plainly indicatu risk to life by syncope, something more is required of the practitiom He endeavours gently to originate reaction. "Warmth is applied to t. surface ; and friction is used over the chest and abdomen. If tins not sufficient to turn the course of the symptoms, a stimulant enema turpentine is given. If still the progress be downwards, an attempt made to convey to the stomach some warm tea, or soup, or Avme ai > water; and stimulants are held to the nostrils, for insufflation. The J