LOCAL SYMPTOMS 8 The extreme vascularity of certain parts when inflamed, the conjunc- tiva for example, has been supposed to depend in part on the formation of new vessels. But it is not so; at least in the first instance. Minute vessels, in health, carrying the red corpusrlus without crowding, are invisihle to the unassisted eye ; during the inflammatory process they are dilated, burdened with corpuscles in mass, and plainly seen ; appearing to have grown up suddenly by a ncAV creation, but being in truth only an enlargement of texture previously existing. The formation of new blood-vessels is a gradual and never an immediate process; as will be explained in the proper place. Ultimate increase of vascularization is frequently connected with the milder grades of the inflammatory process, but is incompatible with the advanced, or suppurative stage, wHch, oc- curriug in the interior of a part, is adverse to all formation of tissue, and essentially destructive. The degree of redness varies according to the natural vascularity of the part, and the advance of the process, or, in other words, according to the degree of engorgement, and the number of vessels wliich are engorged. It is a familiar test of the violence of the disease, in its early stage, to look to the amount of redness. And, again, we find an inflaming tendon less florid than inflaming skia; inflaming skin less red than inflaming mucous membrane. The tint varies according to the character, site, and accompaniments of the affection. A bright arterial red is exhibited by what is acute and sthenic; the chronic and asthenic presents a dark, venous, or purple hue j a bright arterial zone around the cornea characterises the internal inflammatory affections of the eye ; a close and dark network of wide- spread venous radicles indicates the presence of conjunctivitis; while great attendant biliary derangement gives a yellowish red anywhere, as in some forms of erysipelas. The colour of an inflaming part is usually modified, also, by the dis- tended vessels giving way, and extravasation taking place into the inter- vascular spaces. A familiar instance of this is known to the physician, in the rusty sputum of pneumonia; the effect of extravasation into the air vesicles of the lung. The extent and /om of redness vary; sometimes limited to but a spot, as in the common pustule ; sometimes occupying a large space, as in erysipelas, and in the corresponding affection of mucous membrane. Sometimes in one imbroken sheet, as in erysipelas; sometimes in lines or patches, as in affection of the veins and lymphatics. Sometimes gradually lost by diffusion in the surrounding normal hue, as in phleg- mon ; sometimes carrying an abrui^t bright margin, as in the erratic erythema. One of the most important characters of inflammatory redness is its little liability to sudden remission or increase. Other redness may come and go, as the blush of shame, or the glow of warmth ; but the inflam- matory is fixed. By the pressure of a finger it may be made to disappear for a moment, but the pale dimple is quickly filled up and coloured as before; all trace of the touch almost instantly vanishing, like the passing of breath from a mirror. But not only has it no flitting tendency; it must be conjoined with other symptoms. A crimson spot on the hectic