069 OBSTKUCTION OF THE NASAL DUCT. must bo patiently awaited; for not until the dead portion of bone has been thrown off, can the soft parts be expected to heal. At the same time, constitutional treatment will certainly be necessary. The bone is ofteu, however, felt to be denuded without any dead portion separating. It is well to remember that affections of the lachrymal sac may be hnulated, tolerably closely, by malignant disease. A medullary tumour, ji' a malignant polypus, formed in connection with the nasal passages, may project towards the surface at the inner angle of the eye ; and its first prominence, yet covered by the stretched and attenuated integument, may occupy the exact locality of the lachrymal sac. Eut a touch of the part will evince elasticity instead of fluctuation ; a glance at the nostrils will shew the true seat of the disease; and the cachectic face and general appearance will sufiiciently testify to the malignant character. Both con- ilitions, however, may coexist. Obstruction of the Nasal Duct. We can readily understand how this should be a not unfrequent result of an inflammatory process in the lining membrane. The mem- brane is at first turgid by soft swelling; and this narrows, and may obstruct, the canal. Such obstruction is temporary in its nature, and capable of yielding to ordinary treatment, whereby absorption of extra- neous product may be obtained. But if the process continue, the in- flammatory change becomes more and more dense, and more enduring; partly mucous in its site, but chiefly submucous; and by continuance or aggravation of such structural alteration, diminution and obstruction of the canal are rendered plainly inevitable. For the minor form of obstruction, rectification of the general health, counter-irritation applied over the part, and the use of sorbefacient col- lyria or injections, may sufiice. In the more advanced form, the stimulus of the lodgment of a foreign substance in the part is essential to efficient restoration by absorption. Formerly this indication was fulfilled, by passing a probe upwards, from the nasal orifice of the duct. The probe, GemoiiVs, bent nearly to a right angle, at about three-fourths of an inch from its point, was passed carefully along the inferior meatus of the nostril, until it arrived below the anterior extremity of the inferior tur- binated bone ; then its point was directed upwards, into the canal. This manipulation, always doubtful in the first instance, on account of the valvular protection by which the nasal orifice of the duct is guarded, and which must be forcibly broken iip—and which often proved most difiicult to the surgeon, and both teazing and painful to the patient—not unfre- quently failed altogether. Now-a-days it need never be attempted : in all ca.ses of obstruction in the nasal duct, it being better at once to have recourse to the same treatment as for fistula lachrymalis—viz., to open the sac by Mr. Bowman's method, and then to proceed with gi-adual dilatation of the nasal duct ; passing probes of different sizes along tho sht formed by cutting up the canaliculus into the sac. When the probe 13 felt to impinge upon the os unguis, by carrying the hand upwards so as to bring the instrument into tho axis of tho duct, its point will glide own mto the nostril, with tho employment of gentle pressure and a