320 RICKETS. into the erect posture. After the lower limhs, the spinal column begins to yield ; and then follow the other component parts of the Bkeleton ; the multiplicity of hones affected being one of the characteristics of this constitutional disorder, and serving to distmguish it from curvature of single bones—and of the spine more especially—which do not depend on rickets, or any other vice of the general system. In the case of the spinal column, it is important to remember tliat many examples of its bending arc independent wholly of rickets. And that those cases alone are rickety, in Avhich the system is plainly and primarily cachectic ; and in which the deformity, by bending, is not limited to the spine alone, but affects other bones as well; more espe- cially the ribs, pelvis, and lower extremities. This is a practical point which will be more fully dwelt upon, when treating specially of spinal curvature. Meanwhile, the points of diagnosis may be here shortly stated. Rickety curvature is comparatively rare in the better classes ; it affects both sexes alike ; it occurs in early years ; it is accompanied with distortion of the pelvis and lower limbs. Other curvatures, not rickety, are most common among the affluent and among females ; are most frequent between the ages of ten and sixteen years ; distortion is confined to the spine and ribs; and there is not the same character or extent of constitutional cachexy as in rickets. As the rickety patient advances in years, the disease does not propor- tionally become more marked, as is usually the case with moDities ossium. But at, or after puberty, if not before, phosphatic deficiency is found to cease ; the general health amends, flesh and colour are gained, the spirits rise, motion is more sought and better performed, the skeleton is found to be hardening in its texture ; nutrition has begun to be restored, and is gradually approaching the healthy standard. If means, suitable and successful, have been adopted ere this to undo the curves and restore straightness and symmetry of form, such firming of the skeleton is an unquahfied boon. But if, as is not unlikely, remedies have been either wholly absent or imperfect in their operation, there results an irrevocable confirmation of the existing deformity. This, however, is in some degree ultimately atoned for. The general health is regained ; as also power of motion to a certain extent. The muscular fibre becomes fully developed, and the muscles adapt themselves to the shortened and bent bones. The bones, though misshapen, are strong ; and yield no longer, to either muscle or weight. They contain at least the normal proportion of earthy matter ; and, besides, have been strengthened in their curves by new bone formed, sometimes copiously^ in the concavity. The pelvic and thoracic viscera accommodate them- selves to the altered circumstances of their including skeleton. And thus the patient, though perhaps a confirmed dAvarf, and weak and puny in his boyhood, may notwithstanding prove a healthy, muscular, and tolerably active man. Treatment.—The treatment of rickets must be mainly directed to- wards amendment of the general system; as is plain from a consideration of the nature and cause of the disease. And, the inductive cachexy seeming to be identical with the scrofulous, a general treatment will be expedient, regarding diet, exercise, clothijig, tonics, etc., similar to that ,