ClIllONIC OKCIIITIS. 1228 Between English find French authors the suhjoct of syphilitic sarco- cele is a matter of dispute. By the foi-iuer, two forms are admitted :— 1. The ovoid enlargement, never exceeding the size of the fist, frequently combined with a chronic collection of fluid in the tunica vaginahs, com- mencing in a tubercular affection of the tunica albuginea testis, and never implicating the epididymis. These separate knots or small tubercles, as they progress, coalesce, so that when the affection has advanced, evon in a moderate degree, their existence cannot be made out. Having attained a moderate bulk, this form of albuginitis recedes, and the testis is either restored to its normal size or becomes atrophied. Suppuration never occurs in this form of the disease. 2. The second variety—which French surgeons do not for the most part acknowledge to be a disease of the testis at all, but simply gummata which have become adlierent to the tunica albuginea testis—commences as a bosselated mass of very irregular surface, which terminates in softening, implication of the skin, evacuation of a gummy purulent matter by several openings, and in restoration of the organ more or less completely to its normal condition; sometimes, however, followed by protrusion of the whole organ through one of the apertures. The former affection belongs to the transitional period of the syphilitic infection; the latter to the true and advanced tertiary stage of the disease. Both are to be carefully distinguished from medullary disease, from the scrofulous testicle, and from the gonorrha?al affection of the epididymis. The entire absence of all participation of the cord and epididymis, the comparatively painless progress of the disease, the period of life of the patient, the liistory of the syphilitic infection, together svith the anatomical characteristics of the disease already given, should prevent any mistakes being committed. In the early form mercurials are appro- priate, more especially bichloride of mercury dissolved in a solution of iodide of potassium. In the later tertiary form, iodide of potassium alone suffices. The early form, although rarely suppurating, sometimes has terminated in a local softening ; matter forming and being evacuated; and in such cases a true fungus testis has in several instances been recog- nised protruding like a sessile mushroom from the aperture. In the later form, protrusion of the tubular texture of the testis never occurs; the surface of the tunica albuginea alone being exposed in the bottom of the opening. In the open condition of sarcocele, when fungus, from any cause, has formed, a slight operation is usually necessary; the object being to re- claim the fungus—producing absorption of the abnormal product, reducing the swelHng, and clearing the tubuli. The thickened integument around, constituting the closely adherent margin of the ulcerated opening, is loosened by dissection; and, having been brought completely over the protrusion, is secured by suture. Consolidation talfes place ; partly by the first, but mainly by the second intention ; tendency to protrusion is repressed ; and, by the contraction incidental to cicatrization, such pressure is exerted by the integument on the parts beneath, as leads to gradual re- moval, at least in part, of the abnormal structiu'e. After cicatrization, such pressure may bo supposed to continue, in some degree, for a time; and is then to be aided by the discussive moans applicable to occult chronic enlargements. When the affection is due to syphilis, the iodide