TllEATMENT OF llllTIS. 700 holding that its employment is unattended Avith any advantage over lliat of turpentine, quinine, or morphia; while otliers maintain that it js positively injurious. There may be cases in scrofulous or even rheumatic patients, where mercury is badly borne, or where its employment is ill timed or pushed too far; but in sjqDhilitic iritis there is ceitainly no remedy which possesses such manifest power in checking tlie advance- of the inflammatery process, and in removing its results. Calomel, in two-grain doses, every two, three, or four hours, is preferred wbere the effect of the remedy is desired as promptly as possible ; and to pievent its passing off by the bowels, opium or morphia should be combined with it In ordinary circumstances the blue pill, in two or four grain doses, is prefer- able ; and in the more advanced forms of syphilitic iritis, the proto-iodlde of mercury in half grain doses, night and morning, will often be found more satisfactory than either of the other preparations. Should there be much constitutional debility, quinine, iron, chlorate of potash, a nutritious diet, and even stimulants may be given in addition to the mercurial mth. great advantage. In cases of rheumatic and gouty iritis, though mercuiy acts very satisfactorily in assisting the removal of any product, iodide of potassium, colchicum, and guaiac, with quinine and iron, will usually be required in combating the condition of system which is present. Some- times too, turpentine,* either in emulsion or in the form of Chian turpentine, will prove of service ; and great venous congestion of the iris, and Hypooema, with a tendency to relapse, have been suppose specially to indicate their employment. If given, their administratio should be carried the length of purgation and the production of str gury, else no good attends their use. In scrofulous iritis—besides th cautious administration of mercury, tonics and cod-Hver oil are indi cated. When the ill-formed (pegged) condition of the teeth is present grey-powder and iodide of potassium will be found very serviceable. In the more chronic forms of the disease, counter-ii-ritation may tab. the place of the direct antiphlogistics. And, ultimately, when traces o the affection still linger, the internal administration of tonics, especially of quinine, proves beneficial by dissipatriig the state of passive congestion which threatens to remain. When Hypoxnon has formed rapidly, and when the purulent accu- mulation is considerable, it has been proposed to make an oj)ening at the lower part of the cornea, by means of a cataract knife, so as to effect, evacuation. To tliis there can be no objection. It is dangerous, how- ever, when the accumulation is small, and there is no tension of the globe; then it is better to trust to the administration of mercurj'^, than to encounter the risk of aggravating the inflammatory mischief by opera- tive interference. The extravasated blood of Hypocuma requires no treatment as such; and when the inflammatory symptoms subside, the extravasation may * Mr. Carmicliael's Formula is as follows:—Recipe—01. Terebinth, rect. unc. unam—Vitel. unius ovi—Tere siiiml, et adilc gradatiin, Eiimls. Amygd. uno. ipiatiior —Synip. cort. aurantii unc. duos—Spir. Laveud. coiiip. dracliiuani, c. seiuissc—Ol*'>' Cinnamomi, guttas quatuor. M. Dosis—mic. un. ter in die. Glyeerino ynf^ port wine, or Tr. Cardamom co. and water, arc preferred by otliers as solvents and. corrigeuls of the Liirpentiiie. ,