764 FBACTUEE OF THE MALAR BONE. duct; acting as a foreign body, occluding the "buccal extremity of the canal, and determining the ajDparently idiopathic suppuration of the cheek, which, in the first instance, gave rise to the fistula. Should mere dilatation not suffice, then a straight needle, carrying a silver wire, should be passed from the external opening of the fistula into the mouth as tax back as possible; the wire is then drawn forwards, and retained in the mouth j the needle is now threaded with the other end of the Avdre, which is passed in at the same external opening, and made to pene- trate the mucous membrane at about the distance of half an inch from the first puncture; the two ends of the wire are then t-svisted together, and day by day the twisting is continued, till the triangular portion, in- cluded in the loop of wire, is cut through. Should the external aperture not spontaneously heal during this process, its cicatricial margins may he removed by an elliptical incision, the surfaces of which are to be brought into accurate contact by means of a point of twisted suture. If the fistulous aperture is very small, contraction may be induced by the appli- cation of a red-hot wire, at long intervals. Autoplasty may be of use, in those cases in which there is much loss of substance, and in which the ordinary means of effecting closure have failed. When the fistulous aperture communicates with the duct of the parotid where it crosses the masseter muscle, the establishment of a free aperture of communication with the mouth becomes almost impossible ; our efforts should therefore be directed to effect free dilatation of Steno's duct and contraction of the fistulous opening. Small fistulous apertures, too small to admit any probe, sometimes exist in the parotid region, and communicate dhectly with the gland. They are seldom a source of any annoyance ; they, like the openings along the anterior part of the neck, are usually congenital, and may be regarded as remains of the foetal branchial intervals which have here incompletely coalesced. Fracture of the Malar Bone and Zygoma. This is a rare accident. The deformity is considerable, and sometimes not easily remedied ; as in the following example :—A lad, aged eighteen, was struck on the face by a full blow from the fist of a heavy athletic man. The zygoma had given way, and also the union between the malar bone and superior maxilla. The former bone had been driven much down, giving a remarkably sunk appearance to the face, with defi- ciency of orbital margin. By examination from the mouth, it was also apparent that the roof of the maxillary antrum had been broken and depressed. In addition to the deformity, the patient complained of much pain; there was a numbness of that side of the mouth; and con- siderable difficulty was experienced in attempting to close the jaw, the - redundant soft parts of the cheek lodging between the teeth. By pushing upwards with the finger-points, insinuated from behind the masseter, the malposition of parts was in some degree rectified; but still ■ considerable displacement and deformity remained. In another example, in a driver of Artillery who sustained this injury from the kick of a horse, the deformity, which was considerable, was easily removed by employing a pair of dressing forceps introduced into the mouth behind t