INCONTINENCE OF URINE. IIU spoken of. JSTux vomica or strychnia, cantharides, and tincture of the muriate of iron, with blistering over the sacrum, are the most likely means of benefit. In some cases, the application of electricty to the parts aifected has been of service. The remedies are plainly of that class -which tend to restore muscular and nervous energy. Enuresis in children is extremely common; very much allied to irritable bladder; but differing in this, that while, in the latter affection, evacuation of the bladder is voluntary, in this case it is involuntary. During the day, the child.makes water with unusual frequency, perhaps; at night the urine is passed involuntarily; and this unpleasant habit may continue in adolescence. Corporal discipline may still be the favourite remedy among nurses, and with some parents; but it is a.s ill- judged, as it is cruel and unnatural: the child might as well be punished for club-foot or the measles. The involuntary escape of urine is the result of a morbid state, and requires curative treatment. Usually, the general system will be found out of tone; and this is to be obviated by the ordinary remedies ; more especially by cold bathing, and by small doses of the tincture of the muriate of iron. At certain stated hours, during night, the child should be awakened for the purpose of emptying the bladder; if possible, he should be taught to sleep upon his face ; and, at all events, he is prevented from sleeping on his back, and so exposing the most sensitive part of the bladder to contact with the urine. The bowels must be kept in good order; and the state of the rectum should be especially attended to. Ascarides may probably be foimd there; if so, they must be expelled. Certain means are supposed to have a special effect on the bladder. The nux vomica, or strychnia, is certainly of use; perhaps by allaying irritation, as well as by increasing tone at the neck of the viscus. The nitrate of potass has proved serviceable; and, in such cases, it is probable that the urine was scanty, acrid, and consequently unusually stimulant. In other cases, the more ordinary means having failed, benefit has accrued from cantharides internally; and in such cases, probably, there was a sluggish condition of the neck of the bladder and adjacent parts. The effect of this remedy has also been explained, by supposing that, acting as an irritant on the lining membrane of the urethra, especially at its posterior part, it produces turgescence there, so rendering the potential canal less easily opened up. Amendment has not unfrequently followed the application of a large bhster over the sacrum; but whether by the principle of counter- irritation, or from sleeping on the back being thus effectually prevented, it is not easy to determine. Mechanical means—as the jugum penis— are not to be thought of. It may happen that a boy, ashamed of his infirmity, and perhaps impelled by desire to escape corporal pimisliment, voluntarily has re- course to mechanical aid; and, at bed-time, constricts the penis by a ligature, or a curtain ring, or other suitable means which may occur to him. In the morning, he finds the parts swoln and painful; he is unable to remove the jugum ; and, afraid of the consequences of a dis- closure, he suffers in silence. The swelling increases; ulceration takes place; the foreign body becomes imbedded in the inflamed tissues ; the penis may be gradually cut through; and, the urethra having been at