805 REMOVAL OF THE TONSIL. considemLly with deglutition, sonioAvliat with respiration, and greatly with articulation; producing a guttural tone of voice, which is very cha- racteristic ; and always attended with loud snoring at niglit. The allbction further often causes deafness, not generally by pressure on the Eustachian tubes, to Avhich tlris symptom has very usually been attributed, but by a similar chronic engorgement of the mucous membrane of the canal. The patient, as might be expected, is very liable to acute inflammatory affec- tions of the fauces, on the slightest exposure to atmospheric inclemency or vicissitude ; and then the amount of swelling which takes place usually, for the time being, occludes the fauces, and may even produce serious impediment to the entrance of air into the larynx. The sound produced is, however, in such cases, characteristically different from the laryngeal stridor wliich accompanies croup or lar3mgitis. In the stage of excitement, unless respiration is seriously impeded, it is best to calm down the irritation by the use of mild antiplilogistics for a few days, with low diet, aperients, gentle diaphoretics, sinapisms, or other light counter-irritation. In the indolent state in very young children, it is our object to amend the general health by a tonic system of general treatment; thus seeking to obtain gradual subsidence of the swellings by discussion. Should this fail—and in the adolescent, where the condition is of long standing—^we may proceed at once to remove the redundant texture. As discutients, nitrate of silver, alum, iodide of zinc, and perchloride of iron, are most in use; the two first rubbed on the parts in substance, the two last applied in strong solution, by means of a hair pencil or a piece of sponge. The constitutional treat- ment is as for the strumous cachexy—a condition very similar to, if not identical with, the state of system found to prevail in such patients. In removing the tonsils, our object is not to extirpate the glands, but merely to sHce off the redundant portions which project beyond the arches of the palate. The mouth being opened before a good light, the prominence of the swelling is seized firmly by a volsella ; and while by means of this instrument the gland is made tense and steady, by being drawn towards the middle line, a curved probe-pointed bistoury is passed into the mouth, and carried over the upper margin of the gland close to the pillar of the fauces. Its edge having been brought in con- tact with the upper part of the base of the swelling, the section is made downwards by a slight sawing motion; and if the incision is made parallel to and along the margin of the palato-glossus, there need be no anxiety on the score of hemorrhage. Some recommend the tonsil to be removed by cutting from below upwards, lest the tongue should sustain injury ; hat as by this method the palate is more likely to be cut, and as in most cases the upper margin of the enlarged gland is rounded, tuberous, and defined, while the lower extends like a tail between the palato-glossus and pharyngeus, it is obvious that this latter portion, if hypertrophied, can only be satisfactorily dealt with by maldng the incision as first re- commended. Having removed one gland, a similar procedure is repeated on the opposite side. Eleeding and pain are generally inconsiderable. The raw surfaces granulate and heal without any treatment; occasional application of the nitrate of silver Ijcing made lightly, if the process prove tardy. It is seldom that reproduction is oven threatened.