99 CONSTITUTIONAL TREATMENT OF ABSCESS. will afterwards be seen. One application may suffice. If not, repetition is made ; tut only at long intervals. It is tlie second effect of the burn that wo desiderate—not the first; healing and contraction, not sloughing and ulceration. A rapidly repeated use of the cautery would but en- large the aperture we seelc to close. Constiiutional Treatment of Abscess. Throughout the whole of such local management of abscess, and its results, it is most essential that the state of the system be duly regarded. During progress and persistence of the inflammatory process, antiphlo- gistic regimen is enjoined, and a selection probably made of some of the simpler antiphlogistic remedies—as aconite or antimony, with moderate purging. When the suppurative stage has been fairly established, all lowering agents are to be dispensed with; and by and by support is given to the system, that it may bear up under the discharge, and the tendency to hectic which that necessarily induces. Treatment of Hectic.—Hectic fever, the nature and symptoms of which were formerly considered, may be connected or not with suppura- tion ; most frequently it does occur in connection with the exhausting discharge, or with the structural change in important parenchyma wliich suppuration usually occasions. Whatever the cause, it is very plain that this, if apparent and capable of being removed, should in the first instance be taken away; or, at all events, that means should be adopted towards the attainment of this end. Thus, if the febrile disorder attend on a copious discharge of pus from a large surface, as after direct incision of an extensive abscess, our object will be to moderate this discharge ; and, by favouring granulation to the best of our ability, to expedite contrac- tion and cicatrization. This will be effected by such management of the part as has been already mentioned ; supporting also the system by food and tonics. Were it in our power to obtain sudden drying up of a purulent dis- charge to which the system has been long accustomed, we should not avail ourselves of that privilege ; knowing that such an event would be almost certainly followed by an irritative fever of a formidable kind. If the hectic cause be hopeless change of structure in a limb, con- nected or not with suppuration, it is removed by a more summary pro- cedure—amputation ; for it is better to lose a part of the body than the whole. The shock of such an operation, on a frame already worn and weak, is no doubt considerable. Yet it is surprising to observe how well it is usually borne ;—as if Nature had for some time contemplated, and even desired, to part with the diseased portion of the frame ; whose loss, consequently, creates less disturbance than in the case of traumatic or other sudden amputations. When the shock has passed, amendment is commonly found marked and satisfactory; the pulse may have fallen twenty or thirty beats; all the febrile symptoms have abated—and may not return. For some time after an operation, undertaken for relief of an urgent hectic, life may quiver in the balance, lightly poised. The cause for anxiety is great. Yet the treatment should be mainly expectant. The