MORTIFICATION FROM COLD. 139 they had passed three days, and a great portion of the nights of the 5 th, 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9th of February, in most severe frost. The Imperial Guard, in particular, had remained upon watch in the snow, hardly moWng at all for more than twenty-four hours ; yet no soldier presented himself at the Ambulance. In the night of the 9th and 10th, the tem- perature suddenly rose ; the mercury ascending to three, four, and five dec^rees above zero. From this moment, many soldiers of the guard and line applied for assistance ; complaining of acute paia in the feet, and of numbness, heaviness, and prickings in the extremities. The parts were severely swoln, and of an obscure red colour. In some cases, a slight redness was perceptible about the roots of the toes, and on the back of the foot. In others, the toes were destitute of motion, sensibility, and warmth; being already black, and as it were dried. All the patients assured me that they had not experienced any painful sensation during the severe cold, to which they had been exposed on the night-watches. It was only when the temperature had (suddenly) risen, eighteen or twenty degrees, that they felt the first effects of the cold as inducing mortification." And it is added, that those who had warmed themselves at fires suffered most.* But cold may, in a similar way, cause death, not of a part, but of the whole body. General vital power is depressed ; sudden reaction ensues, by the imprudent use of stimulus ; and, under this, the enfeebled system may succumb. In illustration, let us again quote from Larrey : —" Wo to the man benumbed with cold if he entered too suddenly into a warm room, or came too near to the fire of a bivouac Gan- grene made its appearance at the very instant, and spread with such rapidity that its advances were perceptible by the eye. Or the individual was suddenly suffocated with a kind of turgescence, wliich appeared to affect the brain and lungs ; he perished as in asphyxia. Thus died the chief apothecary of the Guards He had scarcely been a few hours in this (warm) atmosphere, so new to him, when his limbs, in which he had lost all feeling, became considerably swelled ; and he expired soon after- wards, incapable of uttering a single word."t The use of alcohol, in any considerable quantity, diu-ing exposure to cold, favours these untoward results. For a short time its stimulant action rouses the circulation, and gives at least a sensation of heat; but ere long the reaction comes, leaving a depression greater than that which existed before the application of the stimulus. The spirit of wine, in the vital barometer, rose quickly to some height, but feU as rapidly, and sanJc below the starting point. 9, Animal and other Poisons, applied to a part, by inoculation or otherwise, are usually said to be powerful excitants of inflammatory gangrene. That is, they lower vital power, in both part and system ; at the same time exciting the inflammatory process in the vicinity of the wound. Bites of serpents act in this way; as also inoculation of putrid virus, from cattle, or others of the lower animals, occasioning the " malig- nant pustule." And, much in the same way, there is no more certain cause of rapid and extensive gangrene, with most serious results to the system, than by the infiltration of urine into areolar tissue. * LaiTcy's Memoirs, torn. iii. p. 60. + Op. Cit. torn. iv. p. 134.