538 TKEATMENT OF FKACTUKE. dousity; or it may very slowly become ossified, as in the case of defi^ cioncy in the cranium after exfoliation or the use of the trephine. Trexdvient of Fracture. This may he said to consist of three parts :—Reducing the fcagnientsi to their proper position ; Retaining them so ; and Preventhig re-displace-i ment, or other evil consequences. Reduction is effected without force,i and gradually. The measures resorted to with the object of reducini! the fracture are three in number—Extension, Gounter-extension, and\ Coaptation—not all equally necessary in every case; e.g., the extensioi and counter-extension employed with great advantage in the treatment of most fractures of the long bones, is useless in such fractures as thos of the patella, olecranon, pelvis, ribs, or cranium. Where, however, ex-i tension and counter-extension are required, they may be effected by surgeon liimself in the bones of the upper extremity, and by means of or or more assistants in the lower extremity. With one hand, or by oi assistant, the limb is grasped on the distal aspect of the fracture, and extension made gently yet determinedly ; the limb being at the same time placed in such a position as to ensure relaxation of those muscles mo likely to oppose this movement. For example, in fracture at the ai the leg is to be placed in a flexed posture, to relax the gastrocnemii. otherwise, much difficulty may be encountered, and the use of injurioi force rendered necessary. With the other hand, or by another aidell counter-extension is effected; and coaptating movements are made b;^ the surgeon himself, or by the same hand which keeps up the comiter extension, if but one is engaged in the treatment of the case. In way the fractured ends, wliich by extension and counter-extension havtf been brought to the same level, are placed in immediate and accu contact. This constitutes reduction. Tlie limb is then laid down gentl;^ on the bed or couch; and the hands retain this normal arrangement o the part, until the suitable retentive ajjparatus shall have been applie At one time, it was proposed to delay reduction until the infl.ammator.ij stage had passed ; leaving the part meanwhile almost imconfined, using fomentation and poultice. But as it is very obvious that jerking of the limb, and other movements, voluntary and involuntaiy, tJ which it must be subject, will maintain and aggravate the dreaded affe| tion so long as the displaced ends of the bone continue to excite muscles to spasmodic contraction, it must be clear that the sure way' avoid this is to reduce at once, ere swelling or rigidity of the implicat muscles have yet had an opportunity of opposing extension. Thus unnecessary and additional injury is done to the soft parts; either continued jerking movements of the spiculated ends of the bones, in cai sequence of coaptation not having been effected; or by employment J force in extension, when adjustment is at length desired. Under use of chloroform, reduction will not only be rendered painless, bn also more easily accomplished. Retention is effected by the fulfilment of two obvious indicatioi First, by keeping the limb in such a posture as shall relax those muscl^ which we know tn bo the most busy and powerful agents of displac