SUSPENDED ANIMATION, 576 * British and Foreign Medical Review, No. xliii. p. 1C3. cases, so soon as normal respiration is established, inflation is desistco from. But treatment is not to cease. The patient is not safe. ]Jail: blood has been circulating in the brain ; and symptoms like tliose oi' poisoning by a narcotic may exist. Coma may remain. By and by tlji- respiration may again cease. Then has arrived a second period, at wliicli artificial respiration may be necessary to preserve life. And, in trutli, the practitioner may expect to be called upon to inflate the lungs mow frequently at this second period than at the first." * To relieve the dis- tended and paralysed right side of the heart, jugular venesection, to admit of regurgitant bleeding, has been recommended; and certainly in the lowei animals, even when the heart's action has ceased (as far as external im- pulse can estimate its contractile condition), it has been manifestly ser- viceable. To inflate the lungs, various methods may be adopted. The trachea may be opened, for more direct access ; but that is unnecessary, unless some great injury have been done to the larynx, or unless the rima glot- tidis be otherwise insuperably obstructed—which it is not likely to be. In; an emergency, no bellows, tube, or other inflating means may be at hand. I In which case, let the fore-finger of the left hand be thrust over the tongue, so as to hook up the epiglottis, and keep the rima open ; or seize the top of the tongue in the fold of a towel between the fingers, or Avith catch-forceps, if at hand, and pull the organ tensely forwards ; then with the other hand, or with the aid of an assisiant, exert pressure on the chest, so as to produce alternate diminution of its space and spontaneous expansion. At the same time, inflation maj"- be made through the nos- tril, if thought necessary. More recently, other methods have been de- vised for effecting this procedure; and careful experiments upon the dead body have been instituted, with the view of determining the amount of air admitted and expelled during each artificial inspiratory and expiratory movement. Two other of these plans deserve notice; one rendered notable as the " Marshall Hall or ready method," the other that of Dr. Sylvester. In the first, the patient is laid upon his face on a table, with!, the head hanging low, so as to admit of the escape of fluids from the mouth and the falling forward of the tongue; the patient is then regular! and slowly rolled from the prone to the recumbent posture, and hac again to the prone position. His own weight, when prone, acting against the table, is the compressing agent by which the air is expelled from the chest ; the recumbent posture being that condition in which the elasticity of the thoracic walls, now unopposed, admits of the expan- sion of the thorax and the inflation of the lungs. The other method, of Dr. Sylvester, consists in the alternate elevation of the arms above the head, and their adduction to the sides of the trunk The arms, by their attachment to the chest, when elevated act as levers in expanding the thoracic cavity, and produce active inspiration; wiien depressed, and still more when the thoracic walls are at the same time compressed from either side, by tlie assistants occupied in these manipulations, expiration is forcibly efl"ected. As both inspiration and expiration are by this method made as thorough as is mechanically practicable, it is pro table that more air is admitted and expelled by it than by any of the