743 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE NOSTRILS. Another method of plugging the nares has been lately proposed ; by inserting a tube of vulcanised caoutchouc, and distending this either by air or water.* .i 4. n r • After plui^ging in any way, great care should be taken that all loreign matter has been thoroughly removed. Serious consequences, both local and constitutional, have resulted from a dossil of lint, or portion of sponge, having been left impacted. When syncope has occurred from epistaxis, in an elderly patient predisposed to head aflfection, we should be very careful not to excite premature and excessive reaction; otherwise extravasation within the cranium may follow. The head is not to be placed low, as in restoration from ordinary syncope, but should be kept elevated ; and stimuli should, if possible, be avoided. Tlie passing of Nasal Tubes. Flexible tubes may be readily enough passed along the floor of the ostrUs into the posterior fauces ; and thence they may be directed into ither the larynx or the oesophagus, as circumstances may require. The ormer destination is necessary in attempts to restore breathing, in cases f suspended animation ; the latter, in order to introduce nutritive ingesta nto the stomach—as in cut throat. If, in the latter case, the tube is to e left permanently inserted, the passage by the nose is plainly preferable 0 that by the mouth; avoiding profuse salivation, and much discomfort. In all such cases, however, the tube is very much more easily and ertainly passed by the mouth; and when lodged may, by means of a ord passed as for plugging the nares, be drawn up into the nose and Ithdj-awn from the nostril—after which a nozzle may be applied of such ize as to prevent its slipping backwards out of reach. Foreign Bodies in the Nost^Hls. Foreign bodies may lodge accidentally in the nasal cavities; more equently they are introduced wilfully, by the young and inconsiderate; eas, beads, portions of pencil, and such Hke substances, are very corn- only inserted by the thoughtless child. On the foreign body decidedly isappearing inwards, the patient is alarmed; and probably makes esperate efforts to extrude it by the fingers, but with the effect only of nshing it further into the nostril. The parent or nurse is now made ware of the circumstance, and by them similar efforts at dislodgment are ade, again -with the effect of causing a deeper lodgment. By this time e foreign substance is beyond the reach of the eye; and its site may e further obscured by the slight bleeding whicli may have been pro- uced by abortive efforts at extraction. And in this condition the sur- on finds the case. Or the child may be afraid, or too young, to speak its occurrence, and a discharge from the nostril, or symptoms of nasal tation, may be the first indication of such a misadventure. It is well, the first instance, when either a coagulum or discharge obstructs the ew, to inject a stream of warm water into the nostril; these it clears * Lancet, No. 1370, p. 579 ; also Cyclop, of Pract. Surgery, p. 142.