TREATMENT OF STRICTURE. 121G ing progress, the stricture is thus shewn to be incompletely divided; the knife is again carried forwards in the groove, until it is arrested once more; and then both staff and Icnife are moved on together, so as to secure complete division of the floor of the constricted part of tlie canal. The staff is now withdrawn ; and a short catheter resembling a female catheter, but witli a short curve at its vesical extremity, is passed from the wound into the bladder, and retained tliere by means of tapes, passed and secured as for the lithotomy tube. This instrument should be supplied with a stop-cock, so as to prevent constant dribbling of urine, and contact of the vesical coats with its extremity. And this is all the more necessary, because it requires to be retained for some days ; till in fact all risk of urinary infiltration, and closure of the wound by adhesion, is past. In ordinary circumstances, the bleeding is very trifling, as the vessels of the corpus spongiosum, at a part where pro- bably the erectile texture is obstructed, can alone furnish any hemor- rhage. Should bleeding however occur, it is easily subdued by plugging the wound with dry lint, Avhich is retained by a compress and T bandage ; or, should it seem necessary, the perchloride of iron may be used to saturate the lint or sponge employed for this purpose. The wound heals by granulation and gradual contraction. During this process, a full-sized bougie should be passed along the urethra, into the bladder, from time to time, so as to secure the patency of the canal, and gain the full advantage of the space afforded by the external incision. When the stricture is situated in the pendulous portion of the canal, or in that part which corresponds to the scrotum—instead of a free external incision, the stricture may be divided subcutaneously, entering a teno- tomy knife into the groove in the staff behind the constriction, and carrying it forwards to the requisite extent, so as to free the instrument from all restraint. After this, either a -full-sized catheter may be car- ried along the urethra, and lodged in the bladder; or the lu'ethra may be opened posteriorly in front of the bulb, and the short instrument already described introduced from the perineal wound, and retained till all risk from extravasation is past. When this method of dividing the stricture is adopted, bleeding into the scrotal tissues and penis may occur; and, from the ruddy discoloration of the skin and tension pro- duced, may excite apprehension in one unaccustomed to its performance, of urinary extravasation having taken place. Cold applications, with pressure over the site of incision, will check all further bleeding*into the areolar tissue ; while the absence of all constitutional sjTuptoms of extra- vasation within the next twenty-four hours, as the discoloration becomes darker from the ecchymosis presenting its usual characters, should prevent the surgeon from resorting to any unnecessarily severe measures. Those strictures which most frequently require external division, are usually situated between the bulb and scrotum. There are cases of stricture in which, from their extreme tightness and unyielding nature—or the presence of inflammatory irritation, spasm, or false passages—especially when complicated by retention of urine— an instrument cannot be made to penetrate, though the stricture is no doubt really permeable. In those cases, when there is no urgency, some have been content with the treatment already noticed, of passing down a