321 TREATMENT OF RICKETS. formerly recommended as tending to subdue the strumous diathesis, and to prevent establishment of local strumous disease. Triction of the general surface is of use; improving the skin, and at the same time pro- moting muscular development. Muscular exercise, too, will assist in fulfilment of the latter indication ; but it must be both gently and briefly practised, otherwise the skeleton cannot fail to have its distortion increased. Absolute confinement to the supine posture will do more harm than good; by aggravating the constitutional debility, and general disorder. But its occasional use, for an hour or two at a time, or even for that period only which is usually allotted to waking repose, will be found of much service ; relieving the weak spine, and lower limbs, from the weight imposed by the erect and semi-erect postures. If the spinal column continue to bend, notwithstanding the persever- ing use of suitable constitutional remedies, and rehef by posture, light mechanical support becomes essential. ISTot by the heavy cumbrous stays, ordinarily employed, at least in times not long bygone; an apparatus under which it would require the strength of a stalwart man-at-arms to move with comfort; and the miserable effect of which, on the delicate and weak patient, must ever be in the highest degree disastrous. But by a hght and easy adaptation of mechanics, such as the well-informed modern artist now supplies ; the object of which is to relieve the spine from the weight of the head, arms, and trunk, by taking it upon itself; without cramping the muscles by a tight unyielding embrace, or causing lassitude, fatigue, and absolute pain, by an unwieldy and overpowering encumbrance. The principle of construction is simple ; light steel rods, supporting weight between the axillge and the pelvis, and leaving the spinal column free; while, in some cases, a spring is made to act on that part of the chest which requires repression. In the use of all mechanical supports, however, let the soft and yielding state of the whole skeleton be remembered ; so that we may, if possible, not only relieve the parts most oppressed, but also do no harm, by undue compression, to those parts on which the duty of support is temporarily thrown. It would be but a bad result, in attempting to straighten the spine, to crush the pelvis. When the lower limbs are but Httle bent, in the puny child, and the rickety condition is scarcely yet fully developed, no mechanical apparatus should be employed. The general treatment is to be earnestly maintained; moderate exercise is to be encouraged, the patient should be much in the open air, and diet should be full and nourishing. And generally, in such cases, the little patient, in common phi-ase, grows out of the deformity; the limbs spontaneously resuming strength and symmetry. But when curvation is great and increasing, and in other respects the rickety indications undoubted, light apparatus are certainly expedient; as fulfiUing three salutary indications : preventing increase of the deformity ; diminishing that which has already occurred, by applying reducmg power in the required direction and degree; and enabHng out- of-door exercise to be enjoyed, much to the advantage of the general health, and yet without prejudice to the limbs. And, in regard to this orthopcedic treatment, lot it always be remembered, that the time for its application is but limited. If the present opportunity be not improved,