67 SUPPURANTS. ceeded by a purulent secretion ; and this may be maintained by continu- ance of the stimulating dressing. _ Tartar iJwie^/c—already mentioned as an antiphlogistic remedy when given internally—is also of service in altogether another way as a local application; in the form either of ointment or of strong solution. Pus- tules form, more or less abimdantly ; usually of large size, and acute. But this application, though capable of producing much counter-irntation, has its disadvantages. The pustules do not always appear in the place rubbed, and where they are wished, but often at some distance, doing no good, and creating a great deal of unnecessary irritation—in the axilla, for instance, inSead of on the arm or side. They are apt to be scattered over a large extent of surface too ; not concentrating the counter-irritant effect; and, consequently, comparatively inefficient on the seat of disease. Besides, the artificial inflammatory process may prove excessive; the pustules enlarge and become confluent; sloughing may occur, and extend; and, in consequence, the counter-irritant local effect may be merged in general excitement—an event not atoned for by absorption of the anti- monial into the system. In most cases, therefore, we prefer a more mild and manageable agent. Groton Oil, pure, or diluted with some simple oil and coloured to pre- vent mistake—or, better still, mixed with wax so as to form an oint- ment, or with liquor potassae or ammonia to form a liniment—produces a copious eruption of minute pustules, which cluster closely together, and with care may easily enough be made to limit themselves to the part rubbed. Its effects may be varied, from mild to grave, according to the intensity and duration of its use. Nitrate of Silver, too, in addition to its simple antiphlogistic and vesicant effects, may be made of pyogenic virtue; an ointment, containing ten grains to the ounce of lard, being rubbed upon the part. Pustules follow, of a manageable and efiicient kind. And this application is said to be very useful in the more chronic affections of the synovial apparatus of joints. A Seton affords a more copious and constant supply of purulent matter than do any of the pustular agents. It consists of a wound, chiefly subiategumental, kept open and discharging by the presence of a foreign body lodged in its track. The integuments are pinched up, and transfixed by a bistoury; or by a broad needle, made for the purpose. To the eye of the needle, , or to the eye of an ordinary probe which is made to follow withdrawal of the bistoury, a ligature is attached; and to the Hgature is connected a skein of greasy silk or cotton, or a strip of hnt, intended to lodge in the wound. Poultices and fomentation are applied during the first few days, until free suppuration has been esta- bhshed; then tepid water dressing, protected by oiled silk, or any simple unctuous dressing, will prove a convenient substitute. The foreign body is moved once or twice a day; so as to favour cleanliness, by preventing lodgment of discharge; and, by irritating, to keep up the discharge's maintenance. If necessary, it may be smeared with some stimulating ointment, or soaked in some acrid fluid, to refresh the inflammatory process from time to time. But, instead of the skein of silk or cotton, it is in general much better to employ a caoutchouc tape; which is to be had, manufiictured