1310 FllACTUKKS OF THE FEMUK. in 1830 by Dr. Gross, as successfully employed by Dr. Swift of Easton ; and was eventually brought into general notice and use by the active advocacy of Dr. Crosby in 1850 and 1854.* One long piece of strong adhesive strap is first applied, extending from above the knee to the ankle; there a loop is left, and the plaster carried up again as high upon the opposite side. Instead of one band on each side, two may be employed, which traverse each other somewhat obliquely, so that one band falls a little in front of the malleolus, the other a little behind. To protect the ankle J • from pressure, cotton wadding should be placed between m ^ it and the bands; and to secure this more thoroughly, a piece of thin board, broader than the ankle, should be placed in the extremity of the loop. To fix the plaster to the limb, either a roller bandage is applied, or tliree straps of adhesive plaster are carried round the Umb, one above and one below tlie knee, and another above the ankle. The splint, as represented in the diagram (p. 539), having been applied, the loop is secured to the cross-bar at the splint's extremity; and the limb is made one with the splint in the ordi- nary way. By turning the screw, the cross-bar is moved up or down, at will; and extension consequently is regulated with both accuracy and power. The perineal band is employed besides ; but wlien its pressure proves at any time galling, it is temporarily discontinued, and the crutch of the splint moved up into the axilla to supply its place. Dr. Gilbert of Philadelphia believes that adhe- sive plaster, applied spirally round the upper part of the thigh, may be employed as successfully in making counter- extension as in extension, f By others, again, all attempts at extension, except where the shortening is something unusual and excessive, is regarded as not only useless but even dangerous ; and, as Malgaigne says, common prudence should lead the surgeon to expect a moderate degree of shortening in these cases. By such, accordingly, the long splint is not employed as a means of effecting extension and counter- extension, but merely with the view of keeping the broken bone as completely at rest as possible, and, by maintaining the muscles in a state of repose, to prevent the occurrence of further shortening at a later period; while, at the same time, the ten- dency to eversion of the foot is prevented. * This method of dressing fractiu-es has been more particularly brought into notice by Dr. JosiAH Ceosby, of New Hampshire, U.S. ; N. H. Journal of Med. for 1851 ; N. Y. Journal of Med., vol. yi., 2d series, p. 137 ; Trans. Amer. Med. Assoc , vol. iii. p. 382 ; American Journal of Med. Science, Jan. 1854. t American Journal of Medical Science for 1851. Fig. 353. The American splint, a, The movable crutch; b, the screw which fixes the crutch ; c, the cross-bar, to which the ends of the strap are fastened ; d, the moving screw.