740 TllEATMENT OF TOLYrUS. Subsequently, the use of an astringent is sometimes advisable such as a solution of zinc, nitrate of silver, alum, matico—Avith a view to restore the mucous membrane to a sound state. The following inj(iction is often found very suitable :—Sulphate of Zinc half a drachm, Tincture of Galls one drachm, Water eight ounces; or the powder of matico, or alum mixed with sugar in fine powder, may be employed in the form ol snuff. The dense fibrous polypus always originates from the pobtcrior pait of the nasal cavity, and is developed from tlie periosteum clothing tin- basilar process of the occipital, or the body of the sphenoid, or the base of the septum. It projects backwards, is of a somewhat pyriform shape-, and can be felt from the fauces. It occurs most commonly in adoles- cents ; and at an early period in its growth is characterised by the occur- rence of repeated hemorrhage, which blanches the patient, and impera- tively requires that something should be done to remove the disease. For removal of such a tumour, the ligature, consisting of cord, wire, or catgut, used to be employed, Now-a-days such growths are removed by means of powerful volsella forceps, provided with teeth, by which the mass is seized and steadied and pulled; then the neck is detached, fiom or along with the periosteum, by torsion with strong polypus forceps introduced through the nares, or by means of a blunt-edged instrument resembling a narrow chisel—tearing the root from the bony surface from which it grows. The hemorrhage during the operation, in such cases, is always very copious, but generally ceases when the polypus is removed. A dense and firm polyj)us may occupy the anterior part of the nares broad in its attachment, and firmly united with the periosteum and bo of the nasal cavity. Such tumours, according to all experience, very prone to degenerate; becoming vascular, softening, and ultimatel assuming the medullary character. Early and complete removal, the fore, is higlily expedient. The morbid structure must be taken thoroughl away, along with the parts from which it springs, and with which it * intimately incorporated. The operation may be effected by evulsion or excision, room being obtained by simple incision of the nostril. It may, however, be found necessary to remove the whole or a portion of one side of the superior maxilla, to gain sufficient access to the tumom\* The medullary and malignant nasal polypi must be regarded as incurable. They are in reality medullary growths of the bone or perios- teum of the nasal cavity; by the time they come under the care of the surgeon, the morbid structure has generally extended so far as to render its entire removal impracticable; and we can do nothing but palliate. If much distress is occasioned by occlusion of the nostril, tin soft obstructing mass may from time to time be broken down by thai finger or forceps ; but even this interference must be very carefully prac tised, lest troublesome hemorrhage ensue, or the growth be excited to more rapid development. Protrusion and pointing of the tumour, at the internal canthus, when as yet less prominently developed elsewhere, m-\T be mistaken by an incautious observer for epiphora, or for a collection of fluid in the lachrymal sac. The erectile tumour has been found growing from the anterior nares, * Syme, London and Edinburgh Montlily .Tournal, 1842, p. 7P1.