1120 DETENTION OF URINE. than that in ordinary use ; for, by the prostatic enlargement, as well as by elevation of the bladder when distended, very considerable elongation of the urethra takes place, and an ordinary instmnient must necessarily fail to reach the bladder—as will afterwards be more fully explained. Sometimes, however, the instrument with a short and almost rectangular curve will be found to enter the bladder through the prostatic urethra easier than the catheter with the large beak. Failing the one, try the other It is in this form of retention that incontinence of urine is so apt to shew itself as a symptom. Tor years, perhaps, the bladder has been imperfectly evacuated; a certain amount of residuary water lias always lodged in that viscus; and the amount increases; at last, the bladder becomes completely distended, and the urine which comes fresh from the ureters—as surface water—dribbles over and is involuntarily discharged. Very frequently, the kidneys become diseased. In such a case, the catheter must be used cautiously. Were it to be passed at regular periods daily, fully evacuating the bladder on each occasion, it is probable tliat the kidneys, thus deprived repeatedly, suddenly, and completely of the circumstances wliich had so long tended to restrain their secretion, would become untowardly excited, and fatal aggravation of the renal disease might ensue. 11. Retention from Blood in the Bladder.—If this occur in con- • nection with spontaneous disruption of a vesical calculus, Uthotomy is probably the best remedy, as already stated. In other circumstances, we have recourse to a full-sized catheter, with large eyelets; and aid its action, if need be, by an exhausting syringe. The ordinary hemostatic means are at the same time had recourse to, to prevent continuance of internal hemorrhage. 12. Retention from Malignant Disease of the Penis.—As carcinoma or cancer advances in destruction of the penis, secondary glandidar enlargements occur, both without and within the pelvis ; and, in conse- quence, the outlet of the bladder may come to be completely obstructed. Such retention we can only hope to palHate, and briefly to extend the now closely meted term of existence. The bladder is reheved by punc- ture above the pubes, and the aperture is kept pervious by means of a gum-elastic instrument. 13. —Retention from Im,]perforate Urethra.—This is a state of matters analogous to retention of the meconium by an imperforate condition of the anus. The perforation necessary to complete the canal cannot be too soon accomplished. Retention of Urine in the Female. The most ordinary causes of this affection are—pregnancy, tumoui-s, paralysis, and hysteria. The gravid uterus is likely to compress the urethia; more especially about the fourth month, when the tumour is considerable, and not yet risen out of the pelvis. Eehef is by the flat catheter. Other tumoiu-s may compress and obstruct the urethra; uterine, ovarian, vaginal. Here again, as well as in the case of paralysis —of frequent occurrence after delivery—the catheter is employed. But, in hysteria, tliis instnmient ought generally to be refrained from.