1183 TREATMENT OF TERTIARY SYPHILIS. may be mentioned, as affording illustrations of the varied situations in which these nodules may be developed. The syphilitic cachexia is, indeed, sometimes undoubtedly due to the implication of internal organs in disease, either directly the result of tertiary syphilitic change, or induced by the condition of weakness to which the system has been brought by the progi-ess of the syphilitic infection; and in some cases of advanced syphilis, the cachectic condi- tion is accompanied, if not induced, by an amyloid degeneration of in- ternal organs and their bloodvessels. Treatment of Tertiary Syphilitic Affections.—The management of these diseased conditions, as of those appertaining to the secondary period, must be chiefly constitutional. Eeserving for a little the consideration of that part of the treatment, we may here state, in general terms, that the local management of the tertiary syphilitic affections resolves itself into the employment of stimulating measures calculated to excite a textural change of a more normal kind. For this purpose, repeated blistering is well suited to the gummata of the subcutaneous tissues in all their stages. In the early period, absorption may be induced, or suppuration hurried on. In the ulcerating stage, the neighbouring condensation and thickening are absorbed, and the yellowish slough-like surface is transformed into a healthy granulating one. Should they resist this treatment, caustic potash should be applied to the sloughing-looking surface, and to the areolar tissue beneath the undermined skin. When the gummata are in their early nodular, or tubercular stage, the gum and mercurial plaster, or the use of tincture of iodine as a pigment, will sometimes sufl&ce when the patient either cannot or will not submit to the use of blisters. Excision of the nodules should on no account be practised. In the case of tertiary affections of the submucous tissues, stimulation of the surface should be effected by means of the solid nitrate of silver; or, in the open stage, this caustic, or nitric acid, may be applied to the surface of the sore—the rate of ulcerative progress directing the choice of the agent. In the early tertiary affections of bones, blistering of the surface affords very great relief, especially when pain is severe. In the soft fluctuating node, it is also better suited to every stage of the case than any other treatment. But in the general enlargement of the shaft of a long bone, accompanying the advanced period of the syphilitic affection, it is almost inert—as in fact is every other kind of cure. The gum and mercurial plaster is also of great service in the early affection of the osseous system. When internal organs are involved external stimulation proves usually of no great efficacy, and contrasts very unfavourably, in this respect, as compared with the satisfactory progress which usually attends upon its use in the case of syphilitic affection of the testicle. The symp- toms yield, however, in most instances, except in an extremely shattered patient, to the use of constitutional remedies. The Constitutional Treatment of Syphilis. In considering this subject it is necessary to bear in mind the dis-