AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER. lobl handle is raised again to its former level, and transfixion is completed. By cutting downwards and outwards, an external flap is formed. The knife is re-entered on tlie opposite aspect of the bone, a little lower Fig. 381. down; and, after transfixion, is brought out so as to construct a corre- sponding flap internally. The flaps having been retracted, the bone is bared, and the saw applied. The flaps may be made antero-posterior, if that direction affords any advantage. Amputation at the Slioulder-Joint. Hemorrhage may be restrained during this operation "by pressure applied to the subclavian, above the clavicle ; by the finger alone ; or by means of the handle of a key, well padded; or by means of any other suitable compressing agent. But this is hardly necessary ; as the fibgers of the assistant, following the back of the knife, seize the vessels in the axillary flap as they are cut at the last stage of the operation. If the subclavian is to be compressed, the pressure must not be made down- wards merely; but downwards and backwards, so as to jam the vessel between the compressing agent and the first rib. The patient may be either seated or recumbent. The former position is the more convenient for the operator, as well as for the compressor j but, if it be adopted, it is necessary to secure the patient against changing his position, through fainting or restlessness, by lashing him to the back of a chair by means of a sheet or towel, as well as by a suitable arrangement of supporting assistants. And now that chloroform is almost invariably employed, this posture is generally superseded by that of recumbency. In cases of injury, the selection of flaps, as to position and form, may not be left to the surgeon's choice; but may have been already indicated by the nature of the accident. When space and opportunity for selection are afforded, however, the operation may be accomplished in a variety of ways. The method by transfixion, and by the formation of an outer and inner flap, is generally preferred and practised where the method of operat- Fig. 381. Amputation of the arm. 4 S