1293 LIGATURE OF THE TOPLITEAI,. The Popliteal. For aneurism, or for bleeding, in connection with the posterior tibial, the Popliteal artery may be tied ; but ligature of the superficial femoral, below where it is crossed by the sartorius, is a preferable operation. For wound of the popliteal itself, however, ligature of that vessel is necessary, according to the general principles of surgery. The patient having been secured in a prone posture, a free incision is made, traversing the popHteal space, and penetrating through the skin, areolar tissue, and fascia. The deep dissection is continued cautiously, along the borders of the semi-tondinosus and semi-membranosus muscles. On the edge of the latter muscle, the artery may be felt beating ; perhaps overlapped by it. The vein is superficial, and somewhat external to the artery. The nerve is both on a more superficial plane, and on the exterior of the mesial line. The vessel is most readily exposed and secured thus in the upper part of its course. When it is necessary to tie the lower part of the popliteal otherwise than by an extension of an abeady existing incision, this may be effected in another way :—The limb having been laid on its outer side, with the knee flexed and laid on a pillow, an incision is made along the tibial aspect of the inner head of the gastrocnemius, commencing a little over the inner hamstring tendons, and extending downwards for four or five inches. The internal sapliena vein should be avoided if possible ; and the fatty texture having been divided, the fascia is opened to the full extent of the external wound. The gastrocnemius is then turned out- wards, and the fascia covering the popliteus muscle exposed. Following the lower border of this muscle and the origin of the inner head of the soleus, the termination of the popliteal artery will be reached, accom- panied by the vein and posterior tibial nerve, closely bound together by the fibrous tissue passing between the heads of the soleus. The nerve and vein having been carefully cleared from the artery, its deliga- tion is easily effected. Tlie Tibials. These vessels may require ligature on account of recent wound, or for the cure of false aneurism formed at some part of their course. For secondary hemorrhage, ligature of the femoral is to be preferred; if recourse to an operation of this kind should ever be deemed expedient. The posterior tibial and perineal have been tied on account of aneurism by anastomosis affecting the muscles of the deeper layer on the back of the leg. Ligature of the Posterior Tibial, at the upper part of its course, is an operation of considerable difficulty. Two methods are recommended— one consisting of a direct incision on the vessel, through the centre of the gastrocnemius and soleus; the other reaching the vessel from the lateral aspect. The latter is usually preferred, except in the case of a wound already existing. The limb having been placed on its outer side, a free incision is made parallel to the edge of the tibia, and over the inner head of the gastrocnemius ; the fascia is then divided at the margin of this muscle—the cutaneous wound being displaced inwards for this