171 SARCOMATOUS CYSTS. whole cyst; a point which is indispensable in all cases. For, if the slightest part of tlie secreting surface remain, we may be well afraid either of reproduction, or at least of troublesome consequences. To the slender cysts of tlio eyelids, neither the method of excision nor that of eAailsion is applicable; the cyst is too delicate to admit of either. Incision, Avith cauterization, is to be practised. The cyst having been opened, its glairy contents are discharged; and a pencilled point of nitrate of silver is then applied to every part of the secreting surface. This is wholly destroyed ; and, having come away in the form of a small slough, the space soon fills up and cicatrizes. For a structure of such delicacy, nitrate of silver is found to be quite a sufiiciently powerful caustic. To use a stronger, would be to inflict unnecessary pain ; and also, by destroying an unnecessary amount of texture, to endanger the occurrence of some deformity by cicatrization. Sometimes incision, fol- lowed, only by a tearing up of the interior by means of a sharp probe, or knife, proves effectual; but, as a general rule, it is better to make the desired destruction certain, by a light use of the gentle escharotic. The thin cysted encysted tumours occurring in the neighbourhood of the eyebrows, if interfered with at all, should be carefully dissected out, without opening the cyst. An encysted tumour, inflamed and suppurating, is treated as an ordi- nary abscess ; by free incision. 'No escharotic is necessary. The cyst is sufficiently disintegrated by the ulceration. When degeneration has begun in an encysted tumour, or a horn threatens to grow, the part must be surrounded by free incision, and care- fully dissected out, at as early a jDeriod as possible. Inflammatory change in an encysted tumour is never desirable; for the process is apt to prove excessive, unmanageable, and altogether unto- ward. In certain situations, it is by all means to be avoided. On this accoimt, mere puncture of an encysted tumour of the scalp, however small and simple, is never expedient; suppuration is sure to foUow ; and erysipelas, in a dangerous locaUty, is not unlikely still further to comph- cate the case. Fig. 55. Fig. 56. 3. rJie Sarcomatous.—Fov want of a better term this may be em- Fig. 55. Tortion of a cystic tumour of the breast, successfully excised. The cysts contain m,ro-pk,stic cells, a, A few of the latter after the addition of acetic acid. *ig. 5G. Another portion after the addition of acetic acid.—Bennett.