CHAPTER XIIL AFFECTIONS OF THE PERIOaTEUM AND BONE. To the mflammatory process occurring in the investing memhrane of bone, the term Periostitis is applied; in the substance of the bone itself, that of Ostitis. And be it understood that these terms include the whole range of the inflammatory process, from its first and slightest com- mencement, up to its highest and most destructive result. Practically, the two diseases may be regarded as always more or less combined. The periosteum cannot be affected to any considerable extent or degree, without the corresponding bone suffering also, and vice versa. According to the issue, various names are applied :—Plastic results may occur, causing Node or Hypertrophy of bone ; suppuration may take place, causing Abscess of bone; ulceration, causing Ulcer; ulceration of an intractable and peculiar kind, causing Qarics; death of bone, causing Necrosis. Periostitis. This may be the result of direct external injury, as by a wound or blow ; and then its character is usually acute. Or it may originate from internal causes; and from none more frequently, than from a vitiated state of system induced by the syphilitic taint, or by imprudent and un- necessary mercurialism. Then its progress is usually more chronic. Or internal causes may be combined with external; the former predisposing while the latter excites. Mercurialism may co-exist, for example, with exposure to untoward atmospheric influence ; and, in such circumstances, the disease may partake of both the clironic and the acute characters. Sometimes the affection is of secondary invasion ; extending from the bone, even in its interior; or a prolongation of an inflammatory process from without, spreading deeply in the soft parts—as in neglected erysipelas. The process, if at all acute or considerable, is seldom limited to the tissue originally affected; both the subjacent and the superimposed tissues become involved; the ordinary inflammatory results proceed both above and beneath ; and on these, in the latter situation, the unyielding nature of the fibrous tissue reacts most unfavourably, causing much aggravation. Periostitis, whether chronic or acute, is from the first usually attended with great pain; on account of the miyielding nature of the tissue affected. And when, in the acute form, the affection has involved the subjacent bone—as very early happens—then pain becomes excru- ciating, with great intolerance of pressure. Swelling is not great; but