437 OBSTRUCTIVE PHLEBITIS. giving no wovso resnlts than tliickening of tlio coats and occlusion of the tube. There is pain in the affected part, increased by pressure ; and the vein is felt thickened and hard. The integuments are involved ; presenting a broad, red streak, immediately above the affected vein, and corresponding in extent. Sometimes simple erysipelas is co-existent; and thou the peculiar stripe becomes merged in the general redness. The system labours uTider a febrile accession; slight, and of the inflam- matory type. The venous contents coagulate ; the coats become thick- ened : and then the vessel feels a firm, hard, and painful cord. The jjml)—the lower Hmbs are the ordinary site of this form of;, the disease—beneath the affected part, is more or less swoln by congestion—the result of venous obstruction; and the areolar tissue around the inflaming vein is also somewhat cedematous. On. the inflammatory process subsiding, the cord begins to Fig. 191. soften and decrease; and then one of two events may occur. The coagulum may break down, and the debris passing into the general circulation, the tube may become pervious as before; a thickening of the coats being the only remnant of the morbid results. Experience proves that a vein, hard and obviously impervious for weeks, may again open up its cavity, and carry blood as before—a common event after the treatment of varix ■with a view to the radical cure. Or obstruction may con- tinue ; the coats and solid contents remaining completely incorporated, and both dwindling down by uniform ab- sorption ; the vessel's tube is obliterated, and transformed into the semblance of a mere tliread. Ordinary antiphlogistics, moderately applied, suffice for the treatment of this form of the disease. Eest, fomenta- tion by lead and ojmim, low diet, purgmg, aconite, or anti- mony. Leeches are not often demanded. When deemed necessary, they are applied near the affected part; but not on the stripe of red integument, otherwise erysipelas might ensue. If it be an object to procure an open state of the vein—as, for example, when painful oedema of the low^er limb must otherwise remain—mercurial applications may be used over the affected part, after subsidence of the acute stage. Sometimes coagulation of the contents, and more or less complete obstruction of the tube, occur in a vein, without apparent inflammatory change in its coats—at all events at the point where the obstruction occurs. This either may be an extension of a coagulum which has formed in connection with disease of the coats of the vein elsewhere, or may be due to continued obstructive pressure on the part. Whether inflammatory or not in its origin, such fibrinous formation has one formidable risk connected with it, through detachment of a portion of the solid matter ; which IS carried on with the blood's current, to cause fresh venous obstruc- tion, perhaps, at a more advanced point, or by passing on to, and through, he ri<rht side of the heart, to become impacted in tlie pulmonary arterial circulation, and to cause all the terrible results of embolism there. J'jg- 101. a, The femoral vein, occluded by solidilied uouteiits. sapnMia eiibM-s ; and consolidation ends abruptly there. At b, the