344 SCllOFULOUS SYNOVIAL DISEASE. ciirial course; mercurial taint—the more fre(iuent of the two, eitlier single or combined with the preceding—by the iodide of pota.ssium ; rlieumatio diathe>sis, by colchicum, saUnes, etc. lu hydrops articuli, the most trustworthy remedy is iodine ; used both externally and internally. Should it fail, mercury, unless otlier- wise contra-indicated, may be cautiously tried in a similar way; exter- nally, in the form of ointment or plaster; internally, as an alterative course, mildly and prudently given. Or the tartrate of antimony may be administered internally; pushed, in almost as full and as frequent doses as for pneumonia. This, however, is a harsh remedy ; and not to be employed till others, more simple and more usual, have been tried and failed. Locally, acupuncture, with subsequent application of the ex- hausted cuppmg-glass, has been tried; but the result has proved unsatis- factory. Lately, it has been proposed to treat the part as if it were a hydrocele; to draw off the serum by tapping, and subsequently to inject a solution of iodine ; a practice not free of serious risk, and in regard to which the testimonies of experience are somewhat conflicting. When the dropsical accumulation, however, is considerable, it may very appropriately be evacuated by means of the needle trochar, as a preliminary to vesication of the surface, for the pui-pose of exciting the requisite amount of irritation to modify the nutrition of the synovial membrane, and restore it to a healthy type. Effusion occurs after this procedure ; but under pressure it soon disappears, and with rest, and possibly the reappHcation of the bhsters, a perfectly satisfactory result is attained. 2. Scrofulous Gelatinous Synotial Disease.—This affection is accom- panied with marked indications of the strumous cachexy ; throughout its whole course, as well as previously to accession. The membrane slowly thickens, degenerating into a gelatinous pulpy substance, soft, and of a whitish or light gray colour; at first with merely an exaggeration of the ordinary secretion, slightly perverted in character—thicker and more opaque. The synovial membrane does not, however, alone suffer. The synovial fringes which surround th& margins of the articular cartilages early become implicated in the process of cell multiplication which consti- tutes the essence of the disease ; and from them the disease invades the cartilaginous surface; the dehcate margin of the membrane dipping into the cartilage by a series of fine vascular serrations, formed from the transfor- mation of the cartilage ; the hyaline substance becoming converted into fibrous tissue, the corpuscles by multipUcation into granulation texture— so closely resembling the transformation which the synovial membrane has itself undergone, as to make it impossible to say where the original membrane ends and the transformed cartilage begins. But suppuration is not unlikely to follow, probably occasioned by acute inflammatory accession; or, it may be, merely in accordance with the onward progi'ess of the original disease. From whatever cause induced, the occurrence is quickly followed, as usual, by great aggravation of the symptoms, both general and local, and speedy disorganization of both cartilage and bone. The symptoms differ from those of ordinary synovitis. The patients