1238 CIRSOCELE. 3. Hematocele of the Tunica Vaginalis is tlie most common form • and to it, in strict accuracy, the term should be limited. The hlood is extravasated into the cavity of the tunic ; and may be .associated, or not, with hydrocele. Ey wound of the testicle, in tapping—or l)y a blow or other external injury, or by the spontaneous giving way of a blood-vessel —a hydrocele may at any time be converted into haamatocele. The tumour suddenly increases in size, and is the seat of pain ; and, when handled, is found heavier, and less fluctuating than before. The blood, if in small quantity, becomes diffused in the serous fluid; when copious, a portion coagulates^ and assumes the fibrinous arrangement. This acting as a foreign substance, may excite the inflammatory process ; and suppuration may take place, with much increase of swelhng and pain. Very fre- quently the affection is associated with chronic enlargement of the testicle —Hsematosarcocele. When hsematocele is unconnected with hydrocele, the treatment is as for other simple extravasations—antiphlogistic and sorbefacient; the for- mation of matter being the only indication which requires use of the knife. When the extravasation supervenes on hydrocele, simple tapping is in the first instance to be had recourse to; and should the fluid be thin, containing but little blood, and none coagulated, there is no reason why injection should not be resorted to. In the confirmed cases—and more especially when suppuration is already threatened—the only mode of obtaining a radical cure is by free incision ; laying the cavity fully open, turning out the coagula, and obtaining closure of the gap by granulation; care being taken to avoid wound of the testicle. If the tunica vaginalis be found thickened, and otherwise much altered, the greater portion may be cut away; as thus the amount of suppuration, and the period of cure, will be materially abridged. In fact, in many cases, from its close resemblance to a solid tumour, the hsematocele has been excised, and with it of course the testicle. Indeed, the degree of atrophy produced by the long-continued pressure, and the risk of suppuration from so large and unhealthy a surface, have in many instances led to excision being prac- tised in those cases where the hsematocele had been diagnosed. Cirsocele. A varicose condition of the veins of the spermatic cord is termed Cirsocele, or Varicocele. The pendent nature of the part predisposes to this affection. And the ordinary causes are such as favour varix in general; especially constipation, and laborious exertion in the erect pos- ture ; as also tumours, trusses, and whatever causes obstruction to upward flow in the cord. The left side is much more frequently affected than the right; the left testicle usually hanging lower than the right; and the left spermatic vein being not only longer in its course, but also more exposed to compression by fsecal accumulation in the sigmoid flexure of the colon. The swelling is usually pyriform; with its base on the tes- ticle, its apex upwards ; and, on manipulation, the veins can be dis- tinctly felt roUing under the fingers, like cords or earth-worms. When the patient lies down, all swelling may disappear ; but so soon as he rises, the tumour becomes large and tense, eluding firm pressure over the