u DISORDER OF FUNCTION. disorder, however, more particularly and evidently displayed, in parts endowed with special functions, as it affects {a) theii- Sensibility, {h) their Activity. (a) Disorder of Functional Sensibility.—Tlxisis the result of perverted nervous function. The eye, when sound, bears a flood of hght with impunity; inflaming, it winces under the faintest ray shot directly upon it. The slcin, in its healthy state, bears much manipulation ; iu erysipelas, the slightest touch is resented. The stomach in health does not reject food, neither does sensation of discomfort indicate tlie presence of food; yet the same organ, becoming inflamed, is intolerant of the simplest ingesta. The bladder ordinarily awaits its full disten- sion by urine; in cystitis, the smallest accumulation is expelled with urgency. Obviously, this is also a wise and beneficial arrangement. Eest, as we shall see, is one of the most important means whereby the inflam- matory process may be met and subdued ; and intolerance of function is of use, not only to suggest the propriety of rest, but also to compel its adoption. How lamentably destructive might not inflammatory change prove, were it unaccompanied by pain and increased sensibihty ! (b) Disorder of Functional Activity invariably attends, more or less ; its degree usually keeping pace with the progress of the disease. On subsidence of the inflammatory process, function is resumed ; but when resumed, it is for some time still perverted, and slowly returns to its pristine and normal character, sometimes never regaining that— quite. The stomach, inflaming, fails in its duty as a digestive organ; the kidney, as uropoietic ; the brain, as an organ of sense and intellect; a muscle, bone, or joint, as an organ of locomotion; an artery or vein, as an organ of circulation; an eye or ear, as an organ of special sense. Extension of the Inflammatory Process. The inflammatory process may extend, 1. By Continuity of the in- flaming texture; and certain textures are peculiarly prone to such extension—as the skin and mucous membrane. It is no uncommon thing to find an inflammatory affection of the skiu, the result of injury, and at first a mere pustule, spreading continuously into an erysipelas. And an inflammatory process, at first limited to one portion of mucous membrane, often quickly spreads over a large space of the same tissue ; from the fauces to the larynx, trachea, bronchi, and bronchia; from the pharynx to the oesophagus ; from the stomach to the bowels; from the vagina to the uretlira; from the urethra to the bladder. 2. By Contiguity; the texture secondarily involved not being con- tinuous, but connected by juxta-position; and usually, the more loose tlie intervening texture, the greater the facility of extension. In neglected phlegmonous erysipelas, the disease commencing in the surface may soon reach bone and joint; an inflammatory affection of a mucous membrane often induces abscess on its exterior, as in the case of tlio urethra; an attack originating in the envelope of an organ, may pervade the organ itself. In such cases, the connection by blood-vessels, nerves,