145 TKEATMENT OF MORTIFICATION. given in full doses. The exhibition of this, at an early period, wiR plainly aggravate the disorder ; oflending the stomach, increasing the fever, influencing the inflammatory progress unfavourably, and rendering the gangrene both more speedy and more extensive than it otherwise might have been. It can only be of use, as other tonics, after the inflam- matory accession has gone by ; limiting or preventing hectic, and assist- ing the system to bear up under the exhausting influence of suppura- tion. Previous to gangrene by inflammatory change, then, antiphlogistics are expedient; early, active, yet cautious; invariably controlled by regard to the impending future ; their object being to jDrevent local death if possible, and yet not seriously to impair general power. When gan- grene has occurred, they may be continued, in sthenic cases ; but now with still more caution ; to Hmit mortification as much as possible, but still without injury to the system. When, however, the constitu- tional symptoms of gangrene are fully developed, of their usual type, antiphlogistics are wholly unsuitable. The disorder has passed from inflammatory fever, into a grave form, of constitutional irritation, tending to collapse; and calmatives, support, tonics, stimuli, will probably be required. Opium, in full doses, and frequently repeated, is an admirable remedy at this stage ; calming the general system, blunting the sensation of pain and illness, and seeming to impart a power of tolerance to the frame under the depressing agency of the local change. At the same time more or less stimulus is usually indicated ; and the preferable forms are the alcohols, and ammonia; administered with the cautions formerly explained. Hiccup is particularly troublesome in many cases. If it do not yield to general treatment, musk, camphor, ammonia, naphtha, may be employed as special correctives. When gangrene has ceased, and separation commenced, usually the general symptoms again change towards the sthenic form ; and, in consequence, a guarded and somewhat antiphlogistic regimen may then perhaps be expedient; lest the process necessary for detachment shoidd prove excessive, and re-induce sloughijig. But, on the contrary, should both general and local appearances betoken debility, cautious support by nourishing food, and the more simple tonics, must be maintained. When detachment has been completed, we have then to do with a simple sore— inflamed, ulcerating, granulating—weak, irritable, or healthy—as the case may be. And the ordinary treatment is to be conducted accordingly. Mortification by Pressure very frequently engages the attention of the practitioner ; a common result of long confinement to the recumbent posture, especially in the weak and paralytic ; sometimes occasioned by maccurate or injudicious adjustment of retentive apparatus, in the treat- ment of fracture. When sloughing, in such circumstances, has been induced, it proves a source of much inconvenience to both patient and surgeon ; as can be readily imderstood. It is to be avoided, by care in subdividing the pressure among many points, so as to avoid its concen- tration and maintenance on one or two alone. In fracture of the leg, for example, retentive means will be arranged to compress not solely the malleoli or the heel, but to be equally borne by the whole surface of