CHAPTER LVI. AEFECTIOl^S OF THE RECTUM. Abscess Exterior to the Rectum. Abscess in the areolar tissue exterior to the rectum is almost always of an acute character, and most frequently affects adolescents, or young adults of a weakly system. There are two distinct varieties, according to the site. One is quite external in the nates, early pointing outwards, attended with no great constitutional disturbance, not tending to burrow backwards on the bowel, and generally getting well under the simplest treatment. The other originates in the ischio-rectal fossa by the side of the bowel, perhaps nearly two inches from the orifice. Pain, in the latter case, is great, and the constitutional disturbance severe; evacua- tion of the bowels is seriously impeded, and when attempted, suffering is greatly increased; at first no fluctuation is to be perceived, but a hard mass is felt on firm pressure with the finger by the side of the anus, and also when the finger is passed within the bowel; throbbing pain con- tinues, the hardness enlarges, and ultimately a softening may be detected in its centre; matter forms rapidly and in quantity; it may gradually and painfully reach the surface; or, slow in its outward direction, the gut, about an inch from the verge of the anus, may give way by ulcera- tion, and by this internal aperture the pus may be imperfectly dis- charged. In treatment, our main object is to procure early and outward escape; our attempts to prevent suppuration, by fomentation and poultices, having previously failed. In the deep variety, the plunge of a bistoury, by the side of the bowel, so soon as softening has begun, is essential to prevent great constitutional disturbance and risk of the establisliment of fistula in ano. After evacuation, great attention to the general health will be required ; inasmuch as without considerable improvement in the tone of system, it will be found difficult to heal the wound, and equally difficult to prevent recurrence of the abscess. Not unfrequently a cachexy is met with, which bafiles all remedial efforts—connected with phthisis of the lungs. In short, idiopathic abscess exterior to the rectum is to be looked upon with suspicion, as regards both part and system, and treated accordingly. Rectitis. The inflammatory process not unfrequently affects the rectum; of idiopathic origin; or caused by external injury, lodgment of foreign matter, or exposure to cold; or connected with an excited state of hemor-