429 OR ERECTILE Tl^MOUR. 3. Tlie third form of SAvelling is composed of capillaries and minute arterial branches largely dilated, with the intervascular spaces encroached on or wholly obliterated, and the vascular walls thickened and strength- ened thereby. These vascular tubes communicate freely with each other, and maintain a circulation of great activity; Avhich is returned by a proportional amount of large and tortuous veins. Also radiating around are the feeding arteries; originally perhaps twigs, now enlarged to trunks; piilsating strongly, and obviously carrying on a plentiful supply. The mass may be subcutaneous ; constituting the true " aneurism by anastomosis" or "erectile tumour;" varying in bulk and tension, according as the circulation is sluggish or excited; compressible ; elastic to the touch, and indicating its tubular structure on being pinched or rubbed Avhen in the flaccid state; of a reddish hue; ill some parts tending to livor, but not continuously so, as in the preceding form of tumour. Or it may be submucous. The struc- ture is analogous to normal erectile tissue; but Avith this difference, that whereas in the normal there are periods of complete repose and col- lapse, tension and fulness occurring but occa- sionally by local determination—in the morbid ^.^ there is never utter flaccidity and repose. The tumour is more full and tense at one time than at another; yet at all times it is full and active ; evincing an undulatory movement, if small; hut when large, pulsating strongly and with bruit, as in ordinary aneurism. Strictly speaking, there is no aneurism here; but rather a simple exaggeration of vascular tissue and function; no degeneration of coats, but dilatation with hypertrophy—and not this alone, but with correspond- ing increase of function as well. The morbid formation may supervene at any period of life ; but most frequently it is congenital; and, growing faster than the normal structures around it, claims our attention at an early age. The most common situations are, beneath the integuments of of the face, head, neck, back, and buttocks ; not unfrequently it forms on the hands and feet Sometimes it occurs within the orbit, and it has been met with in internal parts and organs, such as bones and the Kver. The tumour pulsates synchronously with the heart's action ; but much less dis- tinctly, and with less expansion, than real aneurism. It may be con- siderably diminished by equable and sustained pressm-e; resuming its ■wonted bulk on removal of this. A bruit is heard ; dull, and rough ; and sometimes associated with a vibratory thrill. At first the skin is free ; ultimately it becomes involved in the morbid structure, and incorporated with the general mass. Sometimes the growth is slow ; sometimes, and more frequently, rapid. In all cases, bullc is temporarily increased by mental excitement, muscular exertion, and whatever suddenly and much excites the circulation. According to some, most of such growths have their ultimatum ; at- tainmg to a certain amount of development and then becoming station- ary—or even retrograde. Superficial scalp and face formations some- 5'ig. 188. Section of erectile i\m\om.—Cycloprndia of Anatomy and Physiology.