TREATMENT OF CONCUSSION. GOl last however, are always to be warily managed, so as to avoid risk of injury by their too fi'ee application to a patient at the time insensible if pain ; and the giving of fluids by the mouth, too, must be effected with care, lest they pass into the air passages, and produce asphyxia. So soon as reaction has begun, we cease from our auxiliary effort; and again become passive onlookers; completion of the second stage being always safest in the hands of Nature. If stimulants are used at all internally, it must be only in urgent cir- , amstances, and with much caution; begun with a sparing hand^ and i opeated warily. And, in general, we are well content to do nothing, in this way; knowing that moderate depression is a favourable occurrence ; ;uid that premature cessation of it, especially when followed by abrupt and marked reaction, is apt to prove most injurious. For, at first, we can never be certain that the case is one of mere disturbance of the functions of the organ. There may be a lesion, by laceration of the brain's substance. During the existence of the fii^st stage of concussion, the case remains—practically—one of mere cerebral disturbance ; circu- lation is weak in the torn part, as elsewhere; extravasation of blood does not take place from the open vessels ; valuable opportunity is afforded for their closure by natiu-al hemostatics ; and when at last—it may be after a considerable number of hours—the natural reaction slowly sets in, and circulation is proportionately restored, still no escape of blood occurs; and the symptoms may remain without further complication to the last. AYhereas, had the period of depression been abridged, and reaction ren- dered not only premature, but also abrupt and active, circulation would have been restored in the injured part ere the open vessels had closed, blood would have been extravasated, and compression of the brain must have ensued. Or, even if no lesion of the brain have occurred, the case being in all respects one of mere succussion of the cranial contents, still premature and excessive reaction is most hazardous; by tending not only to kindle an inflammatory process in the brain or its membranes, but also to render it aggravated and perhaps uncontrollable in character. Thus, then, it is plain that two great errors may be committed in the treatment of the first stage of concussion. Blood may be di-awn pre- maturely ; lowering the vital powers still further ; unnecessarily, un- towardly, perhaps fatally. Or stimuli may be imprudently employed j too soon, and too freely; hurrying on reaction ; and endangering Hfe, either by compression in consequence of extravasation of blood, or by an inflammatory process of an urgent and imtoward character. Let both errors be studiously avoided ; for each is of a most grave nature. While we take care that the depression does not proceed too far, let us beware of doing anything to effect either a premature or an excessive reaction. And when we attempt to fulfil the former indication, let us beware both of inducing asphyxia, by the misconducting of ingesta ; and of causing troublesome excoriation and subsequent inflammatory mischief in susceptible and important parts, by the too free or too long continued application of irritant stimuli to them. In the second stage, while reaction is in progress, we have either ^'and ready—to favour, or to repress—yet very often find it prudent « ahstam from active interference; leaving tlie task, almost entirely,