588 OPERATIONS. is commendable, when cliloroforni is not employed. But it is a very common as well as dangerous error, to suppose that excellence is alway,"- commensurate with the rapidity of performance. In the great majorit}' of cases, haste is incompatible Avith safety; while the latter is the para- mount object in view. " Tuto et celeriter" is the operator's motto ; buf the "tuto" precedes its accompaniment. And now, more than evei\ haste and hurry are altogether inexcusable. The student, an operatoi . should learn to be rapid; but rapid, because skilful; and rapid on] \ when safe. And, in some procedures, he will not fail to learn thai attempted rapidity must ever prove injurious—an indication not of sldU but of folly. Perhaps a more common, and still more serious error is—the imagin- • ing that operations constitute the greater and more important part off Practical Surgery. The student is very apt to be led away by the more - garish and imposing parts of his profession, to the neglect of that Avhich; is in truth by much the more valuable ; and he may also forget that, ini after life, he will be only occasionally called upon to perform the greater operations, while daily he must exert his general knowledge and skill, as well as his minor handicraft, to avert the necessity for the knife's employ- ment. In the case of a diseased joint, for example, he is not at once to contemplate amputation or resection. Such procedure is the ultimatum,, not the initiative, of his art. Local depletion, rest, coimter-irritation duly timed and conducted, pressure, splints, attention to the general health, these—to some apparently a simpler, but in truth a far higher; adaptation of knowledge—conspire, and often with success, not to muti-i late the frame and endanger hfe, but to save both life and limb, at little or no cost of either pain or danger. Again, in the torturing complaint of stone in the bladder, it is doubtless a great matter to be able, by £ speedy operation—severe, and perilous to Hfe though it be—to free the patient from his misery. And the accomplished surgeon must be at al times competent to undertake fearlessly this hazardous work. But it u surely a higher exercise of a better skill, and both the means and th result win prove infinitely more creditable and satisfactory, if, by th internal use of simple remedies, and suitable attention to hygiene, th' disease shall be in its very origin frustrated, pain and danger dispelle and health and comfort restored—all without the infliction of a scrat or the loss of one drop of blood. In the case of injury, too, the p mount importance of general treatment wiU be found equally to obta" The surgeon is ready, at a moment's warning, to amputate skilfully crushed limb, which has obviously no chance of retaining its vitality, a- which, if not speedily removed, must inevitably peril the whole frame existence; and when, by such severe operation, he succeeds in avert'- the greater calamity, he has most just ground for self-gratulation, : may truly say that a good thing has been done by his art for sufler" humanity. But when, in the case of an injury a shade less severe, the is a doubt whether or not the limb may be enabled to resist the thre? ened gangrene ; when he hesitates not to give to his patient the bene of that doubt; when, by great patience, care, and skill, he arranges t^- mangled fragments in their proper place, retains them so by suitab apparatus, affording due support, and yet permitting no undue pressun