OVARIAN DISEASE. 995 a narrow pedicle to the broad ligament, or by a broad base ; they may be movable, or fixed in the cavity of the abdomen—this generally de- pending on their size, Avhicli varies extremely ; they may be free, or more or less adherent to the surrounding organs, or connected with the abdo- minal walls. On dissection, the ovary of the affected side may be undis- coverable ; or it may be either entire, or partly incorporated with the tumour. The disease is believed by numerous patliologists always to orio-inate in the Graafian vesicles; and there is good reason to attribute certain of these productions to this source ; but it is equally well ascer- tained that the multilocular formation does not always acknowledge such an origin. The disease may affect a woman at any time of her menstrual life; and is found occurring most frequently at that period when the repro- ductive functions are in greatest activity—namely, between the ages of twenty and forty. It attacks the virgin as well as the married woman; but is found more frequently in the married than in the unmarried. There is no evidence for a common statement of authors that the latter are more liable to it than the former. Many causes connected with menstruation, marriage, and parturition, have been assigned to ovarian dropsy, but this part of the history of the disease is necessarily very difficult of investigation. These affections may be mere antecedents, and not causes. The disease may attain a large development, without giving rise to any symptoms except such as are referrible to the displacements effected by its bulk. It may be accompanied by irregularity of the menstrual function, by menorrhagia, or by amenorrhoea. At its commencement there may be much complaint of pain and tenderness in either side, or a deep-seated pelvic pain may exist, or there may be other modifications of pain and tenderness too varied to demand description. The tumour may press on the sacral nerves, and cause numbness and a feeling of power- lessness in one limb; or venous congestion and oedema of it, by obstruct- ing the circulation. There may be pain and difficulty in defaecation. Piles, and a varicose state of the veins of the legs, are often found. In diagnosis, our reliance must be placed almost entirely on the physical signs. Much obscurity is often produced by distension of the abdomen, with flatulence, when the disease is in an early stage; and the evidence of its nature is derived chiefly from the circumstances of its position, its mobility, or its connections. At a later period, when it is distending the abdominal walls, we trust to its own physical characters, the nature of its contents, and the history of its origin and progress. Careful manipulation usually shews the swelling not to be so uniform or soft as in ascites, but more or less broken up in its outline, as well as of various hardness. Attention is also given to the following points :— In ascites, the fluid always occupies the most dependent parts, while the small intestines, floated by their contauied air, correspond generally to the umbilical region; and the arch of the colon and the stomach occupy the epigastrium. Percussion, therefore, elicits a dull sound over the hypogastric and lumbar regions, and a clear one in the umbilical and gastric; whereas, ui a large encysted dropsy, no tympanitic sound exists m these regions. The intestines, pushed back by the cyst which is de-