902 PARONYCHIA. lution is usually effected ; but often not without the formation of one or more vesicles—which sometimes degenerate into superficial ulcers of an irritable character. The disease usually commences at the root of the nail, a hot and painful blush of redness surrounding this ; and hence the term. In consequence of the matrix of the nail, in many cases, being primarily and permanently affected, shedding of the nail need be no un- looked-for event. 2. A somewhat more serious attack is found to pervade the sub- cutaneous areolar tissue, as well as the skin; bearing the same analogy to the former affection, as phlegmonous erysipelas does to erythema. It is usually caused by a puncture, laceration, or other wound ; with or without inoculation of irritant matter. The swelling, heat, redness, ten- sion, and pain are greater; and there is a proneness towards acute sup- puration. Treatment must be proportionally active ; as by copioiLS leech- ing, at the sides of the finger. But, as is far better, by free incision of the affected parts, followed by fomentation and poultice, the disease is checked at once, and the patient saved much pain and delay in the restoration of the parts. 3. The worst form is the most deeply seated; and, unfortunately, not the least frequent in occurrence. The disease originates in the deep fibrous textures—^in the sheath of the tendons, or in the periosteum and bone. Pain is excruciating from the first. For days and nights the patient may enjoy not a moment's sleep, or respite from suffering. Tension and throbbing are early and intense ; so are the swelling, heat, and rednesa The back of the hand, and sometimes part of the forearm, are red and greatly engorged with serous accumulation. Matter forms early in the finger; deep, and confined, and consequently with aggravation. The con- stitution labours under inflammatory fever, often severe. At the outset, active antiphlogistics, locally and generally, may be employed—copious leeching, fomentation and poultice, purging and antimony—with the hope of averting suppuration. It is rare, however, to have the opportunity of seeing cases in the early stage when only this is of any service. Failing these, there is no relief to suffering, and no means of averting serious ; destruction of texture, but by early and free incision. It must seem i harsh practice to lay a finger open thi'oughout almost its whole extent, . on the palmar aspect; but, soon after the infliction of such a wound, , pain will rapidly abate, and in a short time the patient will probably be • in a deep unconscious slumber. Free outward suppuration takes place; the swelling abates; the bones, joints, and tendons may not be destroyed; and the finger recovers, tediously it may bo, but well. AVithhold the f incision, and there comes no relief but on spontaneous evacuation of the ' matter; and then bones are found carious or necrosed, joints are opened into, tendons are sloughing or sloughed; the fingers may recover, in some sense, but are stiff and useless ; more frequently, amputation is . demanded sooner or later. These results, however, often occur even i when the incisions have been very freely and early made. In such cases, the disease has undoubtedly commenced in an inflammatory pro- cess affecting these parts—from its extent or severity determining , their death. In incising a finger affected with paronychia, the flexor ■ aspect usually requires it niost; and in using the knife the cut s.