564 DISLOCATION WITH FIIACTURE. toid, remain weak and flaecid, its contractility may Lu aroused, and normal development favoured, by powerful and stimulant friction, or by tlie application of electro-galvanism. Tj'iitli to tell, this last indication of restoralion is in many cases the most difficult of I'ullilment. Bo what we will, joints sometimes remain long weak and useless. Dislocation with Fracture. This is a rare complication of injuries; hut sometimes occm*s. As at the shoulder ; the head of the humerus being first displaced into the axilla, while fracture occiu's at the neck of the bone. In treatment, the dislocation should first be reduced, if possible, by coaptating manipula- tion ; and then the fracture may be managed in the ordinary way. Some- times, as when the fracture is at some distance from the articulation, splints may be arranged on the broken limb, so as to restore its continuity in great measure, and permit ordinary extension to be employed agaiust the dislocation ; of course, so far increasing the chance of success. But if reduction fail, then the fracture must be attended to ; and when it has become consolidated, it is just possible that attempts to reduce the dislocation in the usual way may succeed—all the more as the use of chloroform now gives great facihties in that way. Practically, however, such results are rarely attained. In such circumstances, it has been pro- posed to act upon the displaced and separated bead of the bone by sub- cutaneous leverage, A puncture is made with a tenotomy knife, do^n to the head of the bone ; a sharp pointed, highly tempered, steel instru- ment, resembling a tooth punch, is then employed to penetrate it ; and the hold thus obtained is employed to effect the leverage requisite to restore the bone to its socket. Vompound Dislocation. This is dislocation with corresponding wound of the integuments; the displaced bone usually projecting to a greater or less extent. The ankle is most liable to this form of injury. The same general observations apply as to compound fracture. There is generally less bruising of the soft parts, less chance of arterial lacera- tion, and consequently less Idielihood of amputation being primarily- demanded. The risk by subsequent inflammatory excess, however, is infinitely greater than in fracture. It is a rare thing when the joint does not inflame acutely and intensely ; the cartilage and bone ulcerating, much pus flowing away, and the system becoming involved in the most severe general disturbance—at first intensely inflammatory, but soon verging towards the asthenic type. On this account, secondary amputa- tion becomes not unfrequently expedient. It having been detei'mined to attempt preservation of the liiuh, removal of foreign matter from the wound and articular surfaces first engages our attention. Then the parts are reduced ; the same preference being given to abbreviation of the bone over enlargement of the wound, as in compound fracture. Indeed, removal of tlie articulating surface which projects, or of both if need be, often seems to be of much service;