DIAGNOSIS. 1025 nally existed between the abdomen and tunica vaginalis testis. In the first example, the peculiar elastic resilience of the cyst, with sometimes tlie easy recognition of a continuous and larger cystic swelling above the internal ring, will serve to determine the nature of the tumour. Li the second, the gradual accumulation of the contents when accurate pressure is kept up over the site of the internal ring, will indicate its true nature. Both these forms of hydrocele of the cord may protrude beyond the external ring, and may be recognised by the same characters. The partial or complete communication between the tunica vaginalis and the cavity of the abdomen may permit the escape, not only of fluid, but alternatingly, or at a later period, of a true hernial protru- sion ; thus rendering the diagnosis still more beset with difficulty, which only repeated examination can satisfactorily overcome. Iliac abscess, making its way to the surface by the inguinal canal, very closely simulates a hernial protrusion; but, like a hydrocele of the cord, which communicates with the abdomen, may be distinguished by the insufficiency of pressure to retain the protrusion when the p&tient occupies the erect posture. Encysted Hydrocele of the Cord, within the scrotum, may be recog- nised by its round or oval form, its definition above and below, the peculiar fibrous feeling communicated to the fingers on pinching the sac between the finger and thumb; and from the absence of impulse on coughing either in the swelling or at the site of the internal abdominal Hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis can always be distinguished from a hernia by manipulating the cord at the external abdominal ring, so as to recognise the absence of any protrusion along with the elements of the cord, and by ascertaining the position of the testis. When, however, the communication between the tunica vaginalis and abdomen remains patent, the difficulty in diagnosis becomes increased ; and in such circum- stances it is well to remember that while both the fluid accumulation and a hernial protrusion may co-exist, the former cannot be restrained by a truss, while.the latter always can. Varicocele is distinguished from a scrotal hernia by the compressible yet doughy character of the swelling, which, when pinched between the fingers, resembles a bag filled with worms. On laying the patient re- cumbent, the sweUing disappears more or less completely, but becomes again distended from below upwards on the patient standing, and that while pressure is accurately and firmly maintained over the abdominal ring. The dilatation of the abdominal opening, which results in some cases of varicocele, may predispose to the occurrence of hernial protru- sion. In some cases, therefore, we find these conditions co-existent. Tumours of the testicle can scarcely be mistaken for hernia, unless, indeed, in medullary disease, when the cord is involved, and a thickened mass extends into the abdomen. The character of the swelhng, the complete implication of all the elements of the cord, and the history of the case, should preclude all risk of error. The diagnosis of the different varieties of oblique inguinal hernia from each other, is no easy matter in many cases. It is therefore fortunate that sucli distinction is unimportant in treatment. 3 u