EFFECTS OE LIGATURE. sent; those vessels being always in connection with those of the sheath and external product, and not proceeding, as has been supposed, from the interior of the artery.* A very niinute portion of the external coat included in the noose of the ligature has its vitality so impaired, by mechanical injury, that it separates. Molecular disintegration effects this in the ordinary way ; by \ilceration. This destructive process extends no further on either side of the ligature, than what is sufficient for detachment of the noose of thread, with the particles of arterial tissue. And no accident by bleeding occurs ; for two reasons ;—First, on account of the very limited extent of ulceration; second, because by the time it occui-s the arterial tube has been, at that part, and some way beyond it, completely consolidated. Tlius the ligature, and the molecular particles of the external coat embraced by its noose, are detached from the living texture. There may be a slight obstacle to extrusion, from the external plastic formation— threatening to confine the noose ; but a slight touch of the free end of the ligatui-e suffices to counteract this. On the ligature's final extrusion, the hiatus, so occasioned, is quickly filled up by fresh plastic product; and all is made firm and sure. A dense compact swelling, of some size, thus comes to occupy the place of the arterial tube, at the deligated point. Such copious plastic consolidation was essential, as has been seen, to prevent accident by hemorrhage during ulcerative separation of the liga- ture. But now that this event has been safely achieved, and the source of irritation gone, the new material is found gradually to diminish by absorption, and at length almost entirely to disappear; the existence of any salutary adventitious growth usually ceasing with its usefulness. Ultimately, so far from there being a swelling or induration at the deli- gated point, that portion of the artery is found dwindled down to a mere fibrous cord, and the normal texture of the surrounding tissues is almost wholly restored. Above and below the obliterated portion, the vessel's cahbre gradually tapers till the nearest collateral branch is reached; and there the normal dimensions are usually suddenly restored. The inter- nal coagulum shrivels, and ultimately disappears, by absorption. Thus it is plain that the main object in conducting the operation and subsequent treatment is, in truth, the maintenance of a low grade of the inflammatory process j the attainment of sufficient plastic change, and the averting of suppuration and ulceration—except what barely suffices for separation of the ligature. Such are the effects of ligature on the artery itself, when well applied on a sound portion. And the chief advantage of the Hunterian mode of operation is, that it enables us to select the site of operation with a view to dealing with a portion which is expected to be comparatively sound. ^ The effects on the tumour are, instant arrest of the pulsation and bruit, subsidence as well as silence of the swelling, and gradual in- duration of it by consolidation of the contents. This chain of favourable events is the result of the main current having been abruptly turned aside into collateral channels. And .it may happen that the process of cure, thus begun, proceeds rapidly to completion without even a scm- * Tlio first part of Mr. ,Spcnce'.s researches may be fouud in tho MoutWy Journal, J»iay 1843. The second ia unpublished.