729 STRABISMUS. \'isioii was so extremely feeble, tbat I was consulted as to tbe pro- j.iiety of bis abandoning bis studies. On examining tbe eyes, tbe anterior cbambers were lai-ge, tbe pupils and irides normal. Wben tbe pupils were dilated witb atropine, tbe fimdus of eacb eye was easily inspected by means of tbe opbtbalmoscope, witbout tbe aid of tbe con- densing lens, and vision was rendered perfect by employing tbe deepest iLitai-act glasses. Tbe lens may bo partially displaced. Mr. Dixon mentions an interesting example of tbis in four members of tbe same tauiily (Opbtbalmic Hospital Eeports, vol. i., p. 54), and says be bas met w itb anotber example of it in a boy (p. 57). Grafe, in tbe Arcbiv. fiir Opbtbalmologie, vol i., p. 345, records anotber example. Various abnormalities in tbe development of tbe optic entrance and retina bave been observed, more especially since tbe introduction of tbe opbtbalmoscope as a means of investigating tbe condition of tbose parts during bfe. Strabismus. Squinting depends upon a want of barmony in tbe action of the cor- responding miiscles of tbe two eyeballs, so tbat wben botb eyes are directed towards tbe same object there is a want of parallelism in their visual axis. Tbat there is no real loss of equilibrium in tbe opposing recti of tbe squinting eye, is obvious from tbe fact, that when the sound I ye is closed the squinting one becomes straight; again assuming its distorted direction when the sound eye is opened. The want of paral- lelism is really still present, but becomes transferred to the closed eye ; as can be seen by opening it suddenly; then it will be found distorted precisely as tbe squinting one had been, while it immediately becomes straight wben the squinting is resumed by its fellow. Strabismus may be either convergent or divergent. In the former, the axis of the affected eye or eyes is directed towards the nose ; in the latter, outwards towards the temple ; the former is tbe more common—the latter, especially those cases wliich admit of operative treatment, very rare. If the obhquity is con- fined to one eye the squint is said to be single ; when both eyes are affected, • Ujvhle—^in which case tbe distortion usually alternates. The squinting eye is usually a weak -one, so far as vision is concerned ; the deficiency imetimes consisting in the eye being myopic, while in other instances II is defective in its power to distinguish minute objects {Asthenopia). This weakness has been regarded by some as tbe cause, by others as a consequence, of the squint. If it be the cause, then the squint occurs as a means of rectifying tbe indistinct vision produced by the healthy and weak eye acting consentaneously ; the weak eye being put out of the visual axis. This would account for tbose cases of squint which occur as a consequence of slight nebula of tbe cornea, and for those instances where one eye is long-sighted and the other short-sighted, and where the squint- ing eye alternates as distant and near objects are examined. But tbis xplanation will not suffice to account for those cases where the perform- nce of the operation, required to rectify the obliquity, at once restores per- :ct vision to the eye, which previously could scarcely recognise the pro- ':nce of lines in a printed page. Here the squint, or something connected ' ith the displacement (77yperw^i'?Y)2)2a), must be tbe cause of tlie impaii-ed