539 TREATMENT OF FllA-CTURE. meut. Secondly, by applying mechanical means externally to the Irac- tured pai-t; adapted to prevent motion. These mechanical appliances are termed Splints. They are variously constructed, but all with one object in view—to rest lightly and easily on the part, and yet be success- ful opponents of motion in the fragments. They may be made of iron ; as the double incUned plane, so useful in most fractures of the leg. Or Pig. 216. of wood; as the ordinary splint for fractured femur, and fractured fibula. Or of pasteboard; as in fracture of the bones of the forearm. Or of leather, or gutta percha ; like the splints found so useful in chronic affections of the joints. Or of straw, as employed in army practice. Or of soft materials saturated in gum or starch, which become tightly ad- herent as weU as accurately fashioned to the part. The wood, iron, pasteboard, and gutta percha splints are those most commonly in use, and most generally applicable. They are retained by bandaging, uni- formly and evenly applied; not so slack as to admit of any motion between the fractured ends; and not so tight as to endanger undue pressure or constriction, either on any part or on the whole limb. The first application of the bandage should be rather slack than otherwise; allowance being made for swelling and engorgement, which are certain to occur, to a greater or less extent, in the course of a few hours. The splints should invariably be of sufficient length to command the neigh- Fig. 217. bouring joint or joints ; otherwise, by rotation, voluntary or involuntary, redisplacement will certainly be effected. In fracture of the radius, for example, unless the wrist be completely commanded, pronation of the tipper fragment with supination of the lower will occur; inevitably causing displacement, ill-adapted callus, and a weak as well as unseemly limb. A short splint, extending a little above and below the fracture Fig. 216. Splint, ready for application. The long splint in use for fractures high in the thigh. Fig. 217. The splint applied. Tins may both more readily and commodiously t€ effected by enveloping the splint in a cotton sheet, folded in its width to corres- pond to the distance between the anterior superior iliac spine, and the external mal- leolus. The splint wrapped in this is thus padded, while so much of the sheet is allowed to remain loose as will suffice to encircle both splint and limb, so tliat when famed round both, its free edge may finally be pinned t(j the sheet along the outer W'le of the splint.