1097 RISKS OF THE OPERATION. •with the alkalbe carhouate, so as to ensure the urine being bland as weU as plentiful. Copious " wetting" is always a favourable sign ; de- noting a healthy condition of the kidneys, absence of febrile distui-bance, and but shglit risk of dangerous infiltration. The tube is retained, until there is reason to believe that the mar^ns of the wound have become " water proof," by consolidation and glazing consequent on plastic product; the object of this instrument being two- fold—the pi-evention both of urinary infiltration, and of accumulation of blood within the bladder. It is also useful in the event of hemorrhage from the deep wound, as will be stated immediately. During the first few hours, an assistant should frequently introduce a quill, or other suit- able instrument, for the purpose of preventing occlusion of the tube by coagulated blood but when the urine is coming clear, this precaution may be dispensed with. No dressing of the wound is necessary until the tube is out; and then simple water-dressing, afterwards medicated as cir- cumstances indicate, is all that is required. When we wish to remove the tube, it is sufficient to cut the retaining tapes ; and this may be done after twenty-four hours in the young, but not till nearly twice that time has elapsed in the aged—the plastic process being much more speedy and perfect in the one case than in the other. After withdrawal of the tube, the wound contracts by the ordinary process of healing. And, after about eight days—sometimes sooner, some- times later—^uneasy sensations are begun to be complained of in the urethra, betokening restoration of its function as to the passage of urine. The first flow by the natural channel is partial, and accompanied with pain ; day by day, less and less comes by the wound, and the uneasy sensations in the urethra disappear. Ultimately the wound heals, and all is normally re-established. If any unusual delay occur, it may be necessary to pass a catheter gently; in order to ascertain the state of the urethia, and clear away obstruction if necessary ; at the same time invit- ing the flow to its original course. During the after part of the treatment, diet is gradually amended, as circumstances indicate; the erect posture is resumed, and the patient may be permitted to move about a little, even before the external wound has quite contracted. Such medical treatment, by hygiene, will be con- tinued, as is suited to prevent recurrence of the diathesis on which the stone's formation depended. The operation, in many cases, seems to have the effect, not easily explained, of changing the system wholly in this respect—reproduction of stone, after well-performed lithotomy, being by no means common; yet it is well in all cases, by maintenance of due prophylaxis, to leave no means untried of preventing so unpleasant a relapse. Such is the usual result of an ordinary and successful case of litho- tomy. But there are risks and casualties which now fall to be con- sidered. L Hemorrhage.—If there be a transverse artery of the perineum, of any considerable size, it may be troublesome by bleeding ; it cannot be avoided in the incisions; but it can very readily be secured by ligature. By attending to the following circumstances, wound of the artery of the bulb will be avoided, when that vessel follows its ordinary course ; making