SCROFULA. 200 distinctly scrofulous, it is requisite to treat of these affections under one head. This cachectic tendency is either hereditary or acquired. Frequently it maybe traced descending from parent to child, from generation to generation. But, on the other hand, a child may ho born, itself in all respects healthy, and of healthy descent both immediate and ancestral, and yet in tlie course of years come to shew all the signs of a confirmed strumous diathesis. Tlie circumstances likely to induce the unhappy change are those of a pecu- liarly debilitating tendency; exposure to atmospheric vicissitude, by insufficient clothing and shelter ; improper and scanty food; lingering and wasting disease; imprudent use of mercury, especially in tender years ; excessive labour, mental or corporeal; and habitual deprivation of healthful air and exercise. Or again, such events may not be the means of inducing this disorder in a frame previously healthy; but only the direct and exciting causes of it, in a system already predisposed by here- ditary taint. The disease is not commimicable by contagion or inocula- tion, as has been proved by direct experiment; and it is found to prevail more in temperate climates, as this, than in either the extremely hot or cold—^variability seeming to be especially favourable to its acces- sion. It is also more frequent in towns than in the country ; as are all other diseases of debility. Males are more liable to external scrofula than females; while these, on the other hand, are more subject to phthis- ical disease. The especial period of accession, even in those in whom the tendency is congenital, is between the ages of three and seven years; but, indeed, the whole period of adolescence is favourable to its occurrence, the normal balance of health being then more easily deranged by acci- dental circumstances than at a more mature age. In those of confirmed scrofulous habit, the tendency to development of disease varies also according to season. Spring is the period of exacerbation ; more espe-' cially the month of March. This month is supposed to represent the maxi- mum of the crisis ; January and June its extremes of accession and decline. The disease may be evinced by outward signs ; and these have been supposed divisible into two distinct varieties, according to temperament; the sanguiue and phlegmatic. According to some, however, such arti- ficial division is scarcely warranted by an extended observation of the disease ; which is found to occur in all temperaments, and in almost all states of the system. In the sanguine variety the complexion is fair, and frequently beauti- ful, as well as the features. The form, though delicate, is often graceful The skin is thin, of fine texture; and subcutaneous blue veins are numerous, shining very distinctly through the otherwise pearly white integument. The pupils are unusually spacious; and the eyeballs are not only large but prominent, the sclerotic shewing a lustrous whiteness. The eyelashes are long and graceful—unless ophthalmia tarsi exist, as not unfrequently is the case; then the eyelashes are wanting, and their place is occupied by the swoln, red, unseemly margin of the lid. In the phlegmatic form, the complexion is dark, the features dis- agreeable, the countenance and aspect altogether forbidding, the joints large, the general frame stunted in growth, or otherwise deformed from its fair proportions. The skin is thick and sallow ; the eyes are dull, though