301 NECROSIS. is not tlio case. It is first separated by a very opposite process; not formation of now matter, but transformation of the old. But to this transformation of the old, as a means of separation, formation of new as a means of reparation almost immediately succeeds. And this work of repair is not limited to the margins of the sulcus, but follows the line of separation throughout its whole track. So that, when the dead part is completely detached and loose, it is virtually borne on a bed of granula- tion ; Avhich, continuing to enlarge upwards, in the reproductive effort, obviously assists in carrying outAvards the sequestrum and favouring its approach to the surface. At the same time, be it ever remembered, this and every other effort towards expulsion may be fidly counteracted, by retention of the dead and detached part in a tight embrace of the living substitute, which has formed over and partially incased it. And in another way spontaneous extrusion may be prevented ; the sequestrum seeming to be attached, while truly separate. The same granulations, not yet ossifying, may interlace themselves through the irregular and often cribriform maigins of the dead part; as creeping plants twine through trellis-work. By some this irregular and cribriform appearance, so commonly ob- served, has been accounted for by supposing that the corresponding granu- lations have by their absorptive powers consumed the bone, and made the perforations and spaces. But it is more rational to conclude that these are the result of bone having died irregularly, instead of with a bluff clear line; that they have been formed by the degenerative transforma- tion of the liAdng bone at these points, during the general process of separation; and that, in the third place, as to time—not in the first— the granulations have shot up from, and corresponding to, the outline of the living bone along the margin of the spaces and perforations which exist in the dead. It is supposed that occasionally the process of separation is somehow arrested, and may remain for years incomplete. No doubt sequestra have been found undetached, many years after injury done to the part. But proof is wanting to shew that necrosis was coeval with the injury. More probably, in such cases, the formation of the sequestrum resulted from a later ostitis ; and its separation was truly progressing in the ordi- nary way. The sequestrum is always less than the space left on separation, as can readily be understood; allowance being made for amplification of the latter, by the transformation of more or less of the living bone into soft textm-e, whereby separation is effected. 6. Rejoaration is comi^hted. This, we have already seen, begins at tiie same time as the process of separation; and is originated by the old bone, at the living margin of the ulcerative sulcus. From this point it advances, consentaneously with the process of separation ; in two parts, a deep and superficial. The former, following close in the track of the fine of separation, consists of osseous production from the living bono beneath the loosening sequestrum. The other, begun by bone, and earned on by periosteum—a membrane invested with great and special ossific power*—invests the dead part on its exterior; gradually shelving * Poriostrinn, sncli circumstances, does not consist merely of fibrous tissue,