185 EPITHELIOMA. inroad on the general frame ; tlie diet should be simple and non-stimulant, yet nutritive, and rather full than otherwise. By opium and other ano- dynes, exhibited internally, sleep is procured, and pain of the part and neighbourhood allayed. No stimulants are applied to the tumom-; on the contrary, all such are carefully avoided ; it is our object locally to soothe; and, for this purpose, opium, belladonna, conium, may be em- ployed in the form of epithem. In the ulcerated state, much relief is often experienced from the frequent, or even constant, use of a plain and light hemlock poultice. Foetor is corrected by the occasional application of solutions of the chlorurets, or other disinfectants, and by strict attention to cleanliness. The part and its vicinity should be kept as much as possible in a state of rest. Local warmth, by some soft article of clothing, as wool or fur, is also expedient. All friction, with or without stimulant embrocations, is in the highest degree pernicious. "Were the disease merely local, pressure might perhaps be cautiously conducted, so as to arrest development of the part, or even to obtain a partial decrease ; but, as it is, malignant formation and increase elsewhere, probably in an in- ternal organ, would in all likelihood be the result of temporary obstruc- tion at the original site of development. And besides, ulceration, by over-excitement, is the usual local effect of pressure on such tumours, even when most carefully employed. Operation, even in the most hopeless cases, may sometimes be deemed expedient, as a mere palliative. When there is a large and ghastly sore —as of the mamma—^pouring out much foetid ichorous discharge, and the seat of constant agonising pain, conversion of the foetid and painful ulcer into a comparatively simple wound may, for a time, afford very marked reHef The ulcerated part is taken away by rapid dissection; the bleeding points are secured; the wound is left to suppurate, under simple water- dressing ; no stimuli are applied; it is seldom that coaptation by suture is practicable, and under the circumstances it is scarcely expedient; the wound contracts, and may even heal for a time. Or, again, to avoid the loss of blood, which can scarcely be prevented in operations under- taken under such circumstances, caustic may be employed, the patient being placed under the influence of chloroform or opiates, while the caustic is in operation. In any case degeneration ultimately returns, and its advance is again rapid and untoward; but, during the interval, the patient may have been privileged to enjoy much comparative ease and comfort. In those cases, however—and they are the majority—in which the exhausting shock of an operation, acting on the system, will more than overbalance the contemplated benefit to the part, operation is alto- gether to be abstained from. 2. Epithelioma, Epithelial Cancer, Cancroid, is more analogous in structure, and less malignant in tendency, than any of the other cancerous formations. Microscopically it is found to consist mainly of epidermic or epithelial cells, but little removed in character from those which are primary and nomal, but arranged very differently; not merely clothing the sur- faces to which they belong, but, besides copiously investing the enlarged papillce of the cutis, being rolled into masses, or balls, and also impli- catmg, like other cancerous products, the adjacent and deeper textures. It occurs in connection with skin and mucous membrane ; often where