LIGATURE OF THE TIBIALS. 1294 purpose—turning the inner belly of the gastrocnemius outwards; the soleus is tlien cut through in the line of the original incision; and in doing this the existence of its tendon on its under surface must he borne in mind. The deep fascia is now exposed and divided; and the artery will be found about an inch from the tibia, between the concomitant veins, and with the nerve on its fibular side. Separation of the veins is made very carefully, while the edges of this deep wound are as much retracted as possible by means of copper spatulffi ; the Imee being bent, and the foot extended, so as to relax the muscles of the calf. The needle is passed from without inwards. In the middle of the leg, a similar operation re- quires to be performed, as the soleus still takes origin from the tibia ; the line of incision should, however, be nearer the tibial margin than in the former case ; about two fingers' breadth being a suitable distance. At the lower part of the leg, the vessel is reached much more readily; by making an incision midway between the tibial margin and the tendo Achillis. Two layers of fascia require division, when the nerve will be recognised ; and by a little dissection to its tibial side, the artery will be exposed, with its concomitant veins. Separating the vessel from these, the ligature is applied in the ordinary way. At the ankle, the operation is also simple. A semilunar incision is made behind the malleolus, midway between it and the tendo Achillis ; or the finger, applied behind the malleolus, may be a sufficient guide to the line of wound. The areolar tissue having been divided, a strong aponeurosis is exposed; this having been cautiously cut through, the vessels are found; and, the artery having been separated from its con- comitant veins, the needle is passed in any direction that is most con- venient—as the nerve is generally quite out of the way, being situated between the artery and the tendo AchiUis. The Anterior Tibial, in the first part of its course, is on the posterior aspect of the inter-osseous membrane, and cannot, of course, be reached from the front of the leg. After passing through the inter-osseous liga- ment, which it does about a hand's breadth beneath the tuberosity of the tibia, it may be tied in any part of its track, which is indicated by a line from the head of the fibula, to the outer side of the tendon of the tibialis anticus, or interspace between the great and second toe. The operation, when high, is difficult. In operating, a free incision is made between the extensor communis digitorum and tibialis anticus; and it is well to make a transverse division of the investing fascia, at each ex- tremity of the wound, as this enables the muscles to be more easily separated and held aside. The foot should now be flexed ; and following the nervous, venous, and arterial radicles which spread on either side down to the inter-osseous ligament, the artery will be found, with the nerve to the outer side. In the middle of the leg, the artery is placed between the tibialis anticus and the extensor proprius pollicis, with the nerve in front, lying upon the artery. At the lowest part of the leg, a less incision is necessary; the vessel being much more superficial. The wound is made on the fibular side of the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis. The vena3 comites, and the anterior tibial nerve, which now lies to the inner side, are carefully separated before passing the ligature.