122 THE SLOUGHING SORE. a profuse ill-fonneJ pus, mingled with the ulcerative dehris. The margins are swoln, red, hot, tense, and painful; and so is the sur- rounding integument. The erect posture and motion increase the paui; the system may be more or less involved in febrile disturbance ; and the primes via? are usually detected in marked disorder. Not unfre- quently, the inflammatory process running high, while local power is weak, slougliing takes place, more or less extensively ; as ah-eady noticed in regard to the inflanmiatory condition supervening on the Indolent variety of sore. Treatment consists in moderate antiphlogistics. Rest, relaxation, elevated position, fomentation, poultice, hot-water dressing, antiphlogistic regimen, purgatives, aconite, or antimonials. Sometimes it is necessary to draw blood locally ; and this may be done by leeches or punctures. The former are sometimes placed on the sore itself, with good effect. Punctures are preferable, however, in the integument. For leeches there are apt, by their own irritation, to induce spreading of the inflamma- tory process, of an erysipelatous kind; or the bites may themselves ulcerate, and so extend the original disease. Let not antiphlogistics, however, even when moderate, be continued one moment longer than is absolutely necessary; otherwise degeneration into the weak sore is speedy and certain, 8, Tlie Sloughing Sore. This differs from the sloughing state which not unfrequently aff'ects the simply inflamed sore, in being not casual and temporary, but an inherent characteristic of the disease. It usually begins with the forma- tion of a slough ; and continues to enlarge, by repetition of the same process. Such morbid change may be in itself not great, and in a sound texture would probably lead to no destructive result; but in a worn frame and weak part, vital power is quickly overborne; and almost the first indication of the inflammatory onset may be the supersedence of vital by chemical change. Thus the inflammatory process instituted in the sexual organs of ill-clothed, ill-fed, intemperate prostitutes, living in the densest and filthiest parts of dense and filthy cities, is very apt to produce this kind of sore. Here local and general debility exist, before application of the exciting cause. But the relation may be reversed. The cause may be capable of exerting such a depressing influence on both system and part, rapidly, that the inflammatory process which it excites very speedily terminates in gangrene; as happens in inoculation of certain poisons—that of venomous snakes, for example, or of diseased animals. Or the inflammatory process may itself induce a change in the j^art affected ; inimical to reparation or controlling power, and favourable to the predominance of disease. Thus, a sore on the penis may be of a simply acute natiire ; paraphymosis ensues, in consequence of the sur- rounding inflammatory swelling ; change of relative position is neglected ; consolidation takes place ; and then attempts at reduction are unsuccess- ful. The constriction is neither so great nor so complete, as to produce sphacelus of the whole glans ; but it is sufficient to establish slough after