568 RUPTURE OF MUSCLE. circumstances; always keeping the solution very weak, otherwise a trouble- some itchy eczema is apt to ensue. In the thoroughly chronic stage, hard and long continued friction is sometimes of decided service; suppling the joints, and freeing the play of tendons, hy inducing absorption of lingering plastic material. It is at this period of the case—not before—that the aid of professed " rubbers" may be obtained, with good prospect of advantage. The cold douche of salt or fresh water will also be found an excellent means of restoring the parts, more rapidly than otherwise would occur, to their normal condition. Should the inflammatory process threaten to continue, of a chronic character, the hot douche or even counter-irritation is to be employed; and the general indications for treatment of disease of an articulation carried out as in ordinary circumstances ; all motion, friction, or other stimulus being carefully avoided. For some time, moderate bandaging is continued, to afford support; especially when the part is in use. And, for long after, especial care should be taken to avert fresh injury, or any other cause likely to induce disease. For the joint, notwithstanding all care in the treatment, too often remains both vitally and physically Aveak; liable to reproduction of the sprain, and to reinduction of morbid change, from but slight causes. Our prophylactic care will naturally be most sedulous, in those who, from scrofulous, rheumatic, or gouty habit, are especially prone to affections of the joints. Rujoture of Muscle. Muscular fibre not unfrequently gives way, to a greater or less ex- tent, in those of robust frame, advanced in years, and unaccustomed to muscular effort, when, by circumstances, they are called upon to make sudden and powerful exertion ; as in running, leaping, dancing, or lifting a weight. The muscle most frequently injured thus, is the gastrocnemius— or its accessory, the plantaris gracilis—at its lower part; where muscular fibre ends, and tendon begins. The consequences are :—sudden pain j swelling and discoloration, by extravasation of blood, immediate or ap- parent some time after ; increase of swelling and pain, by plastic product attendant on inflammatory accession; lameness ; at first a chasm at the site of injury, more or less extensive, according to the amount of lacera- tion ; afterwards, a hard swelling there, caused by the organized plastic production which occupies the vacant space. At the time of injury, the patient usually has a sensation as if struck on the part, is sensible that something has given way, and falls to the ground. Eupture of the quadriceps extensor cruris, at its lower part, by muscular exertion, is also not uncommon; and the Mceps flexor cubiH, the triceps, the pectorals, the recti ahdominis, the serratus magnus, the diaphragm, the p)soas and iliacus, etc., may be similarly affectecL The treatment consists of rest and antiphlogistic regimen; the part being kept in such a position as to relax the affected muscle, and place its several fibres in contact, while the part throughout the whole period of treatment should be firmly supported by a bandage, which is more