SUSPENDED ANIMATION. 579 their action. All tlio others are jiositioe ; exerting a distinctly poison- ous effect when received into the lungs. Of these, the two most apt to act injuriously on tlie human frame, in this double way—partly by suffo- cation, partly by poisoning—are carbonic acid, and sulphuretted hydro- gen ; administered either suicidally or by accident. In the latter way carbonic acid may be applied noxiously, or fatally, by confinement in an unventilated apartment; by sleeping in a confined room where charcoal is burning; by immersion in the gas extricated during fermentation; by exposure to the clioke-damp of mines, cellars, wells, etc., or to the gas extricated in calcination of chalk or limestone. Sulphuretted hy- drogen produces speedy death to those who are brought in contact with it, even when largely diluted by atmospheric air ; as in drains and sewers. Inspired in its pure state, it is almost instantaneously fatal. Air slightly contaminated by it produces nausea, sickness, and general discomfort; which may be followed by quick pulse, hurried breathing, and delirium. Treatment, in suspended animation from such causes, consists in cold affusion, stimulating embrocations to the chest and extremities, and arti- ficial respiration. For the latter indication, it is recommended to pass a tube through the glottis, wliich may be spasmodically closed, and failing in that, or no tube being at hand, that laryngotomy should be performed, so as to permit certain access of air to the lungs. By drawing the tongue forwards, artificial respiration will probably, in all cases, be easily effected ; and until this has been at all events efficiently attempted, neither tube nor laryngotomy should be had recourse to. 5. By Lightning. This seems to act chiefly on the brain and nervous system; producing symptoms, in the cases which are not im- mediately fatal, closely resembling those of concussion of the brain. When death is instantaneous, bruise, laceration, fracture, and scorching of the body may be found. In the slighter cases, cold affusion will assist reaction. In the more severe examples, warmth to the surface will be necessary; with recourse to artificial respiration when natural breathing begins to flag. 6. Bij Cold. In this country, death from exposure to cold is usually associated "with improper food and clothing, or with intemperance. Cold, however, when great or long continued, is quite sufficient of itself to extinguish life. Like the preceding, it seems to act mainly on the nervous system; producing giddiness, dimness of sight, feebleness and rigidity of the limbs, torpor, and profound sleep ; during which state of lethargy the vital functions gradually cease—all the more if alcohols bave been taken during or previous to the period of exposure. The curative indications are twofold. To restore circulation and sensibiUty; and yet to ensure moderation in reaction, so as to prevent the fatal effects of its excess. Tlie body is rubbed first with snow—or cold water, if .snow cannot be found—and afterwards with some dry soft substance. Then it is placed in a cool bed, in a room without a fire, ■while moderate friction, witliout any stimulant, is continued. A gently rou.smg enema—such as gruel, with a small quantity of turpentine—may then be administered ; and, if tlie power of swallowing have been by his time regained, some simple nutriment, as warm milk or beef-tea, or