1192 TREATMENT BY IODINE. remedy; while subretinal serous accumulation, -with dimness of vision, and even salivation, have been presumed to accompany the irritating effects of the medicine. Cutaneous eruptions of an erythematous, papular, vesicular, or furuncular character, may be evolved in cases where iodine exerts an irritant influence upon the gastro-duodenal system; and it can easily be supposed that a greater degree of like irritation deranging the hepatic function would suffice to produce the sensation of oppression in the head, tinnitus aurium, neuralgia, spasmodic twitcliing of the muscles, impaired voluntary motion, sluggishness of the intellect, followed by rapid emaciation, nervous palpitation, and a morbid craving for food, which has been supposed to be due to the proper physiological effects of the iodine carried to excess, and from which theory the term iodism has been derived. The atrophied condition of the testes and mammje, which has been alleged to occur as the result of prolonged iodic absorption in the treat- ment of syphilis, has always been discovered to be due not to the iodine, but to change in the nutrition of the part induced by the syphilitic alteration of texture; so that when the adventitious product has been absorbed, the gland atrophied by pressure is found smaller than it was previous to the involvement. In administering iodine, the substance may be given either in the form of simple solution, or combined with the iodides of potassium, sodium, or ammonium. The compound Liq. lodinii of the Edinburgh Pharmacopoeia, or the simple iodide of potassium may be prescribed. By some, again, the iodides of iron, or quinine, in the shape of pill or syrup, are preferred. The dose of the common iodides of potassium, sodium, or ammonium, may vary from three up to ten grains three times a day ; and to prevent decomposition into iodic acid, the remedy should be taken on an empty stomach. To obviate qualminess, or griping, some carmina- tive, tonic, or stomachic, may be administered along Avith the drug. Treatment of Byphilis ly CJilorate of Potass.—This remedy has been as highly vaunted by some, as it has been,held valueless by others, in the treatment of syphilis. We have already seen that it possesses the inestimable virtue of re- lieving the patient from the effects of salivation, or even of preventing its access, when administered along with the mercurial. Its virtues in influencing the general syphilitic diathesis, however, have appeared to us to be of a very doubtful kind; although, in the affections of the mouth and throat, when used as a gargle, as well as administered internally, it certainly affords very marked relief. Treatment of Syphilis by Purgatives.—This has rarely been tried without the use of some so-called specific, or alterative remedy, comph- cating the results. When employed, sulphate of magnesia, Harrogate salts, natural saline springs, the phosphatic laxative, and the sulphate of Boda, have been the remedies usually prescribed. Talcen in a daily dose, largely diluted, in the morning before breakfast—and assisted by exer- cise, regulated diet, and the warm bath—a satisfactory issue has in many cases been attained ; even sulphur and cream of tartar at bed time, or a Seidlitz powder every morning, has, by many individuals Avho have under-