445 AT 11 IN THE VEINS. tented with tlio palliative mode of treatment, unless in those cases in which the inconvenience is great, and obstinate and serious ulceration attends, perhaps with hemorrhage ; and that, under no circumstances, ought the surgeon to undertake the operation, far less urge it, unless the patient be made fully aware of the amount and kind of risk which is necessarily incurred. Plileholites. By this terra is understood concretions which form in the fibrinous coagula of varicose and obstructed veins ; sometimes merged in the sub- stance of subsequent solid enlargement, more frequently constituting small hard swellings of their own. Their earthy matter is mainly phos- phate of Hme. The only remedy is by excision : but tliis need not be resorted to unless the concretion gives rise to uneasiness. Entrance op Air into Veins. This is a casualty of a most alarming nature ; and may occur during operations which implicate section of the larger veins. In wounds of the lower part of the neck and of the axilla, a venous orifice is apt to become gaping, or " canalized," during deep inspiration; and then atmosj)heric air will enter iu greater or less quantity. Certain circumstances favour the accident's occurrence. 1. The site of the wound. The lower part of the neck, and upper part of the thorax, are the most dangerous localities. 2. The condition of the venous coats. If thickened and rigid, by chronic change of their coats, they tend to remain open when cut ; like an arterial tube rather than a venous; a condition most favourable to the air's entrance. 3. The state of the sur- rounding parts. These may be dense and consolidated, so as not to per- mit contraction of the venous orifice ; maintaining it widely open, as in section of the hepatic veins. Or spasmodic contractions of the muscles may have a similar canalizing effect. 4. The degree of traction made upon the vein. The vessel, if loose when cut, is not so apt to gape, as when tightened by pulling ; as it often may be, at the time of section, in the extirpation of tumours. 5. The form of wound in the vessel. The vein, if completely severed, is likely to collapse. If cut only partially, and in a transverse direction, while by traction it is made tense, the aperture cannot choose but gape. 6. Position of the part operated on. If relaxed, collapse of the venous orifice is favoured ; if, on the contrary, placed on the stretch, as usually is the case to a greater or less extent, to facilitate dissection, canalization is rendered more lilcely. 7. The posi- tion of the vein in the wound. A large vein punctured, and situated in the angle between two flaps of a wound, is probably made to gape at eacli opening up of the incision. Canalization of the vein, combined with deep inspiration, is all that IS required ; and it is consequently matter of surprise, that the untoward event should not be of more frequent occurrence. The symptoms which denote it are as follows :—A noise of air in motion through a narrow space IS heard; sometimes hissing; more frequently of a lapping or