CHAPTER L THE INFLAMMATOEY PEOCESS. lOTLiVMMATiON—the word in ordinary use, to express that state of ele- mentary disease which is so common in both medicine and surgery— mio-ht he defined : An alteration in the healthy structure and function of a part, accompanied hy a perverted condition of the blood, blood-vessels, and nerves; ordinarily attended with redness, pain, heat, swelling, and with more or less febrile disturbance of the general system. But this term has, in my opinion, been made to uiclude too wide a range—from the slightest exaltation of what is healthy, to the most disastrous results of ravaging disease; as if identifying the healing of a wound with its gaping and suppuration—the gradual enlargement of a part, with its destruction and discharge—the death of a portion of bone, with the formation of its substitute—the successful reunion of a broken limb, with the suppurative arrest and undoing of the callus—the pro- duction of an ulcer, with its process of healing; all, however dissimilar, declared the offspring of one common parent—Inflammation. The practical confusion likely to result from such a state of things seems full warrant for the surgeon to attempt a division of what is so extensive and varied, into its component parts ; and to inquire whether separate causes or conditions may not be found to suit the results so widely different. As a suitable general term, comprehending the whole range, " The Inflammatory Process " may be employed; and this, again, following the arrangement of Natui'e, may be divided into three stages, the Serous, the Plastic, and the Suppurative—conditions easily appreciated by ordi- nary sight and touch. The whole change is, in truth, one of perverted nutrition; the forma- tion of new material and the removal of the old having lost their normal harmony, and one or other, or both of these processes, occurring in excess. In the first stage, the nutritive excess is mainly serous ; in the second, it is of plastic material; while in the third, or suppurative, the texture of the part affected becomes more or less rapidly broken up, along with a more or less copious formation of a new and peculiar matter named Pus— itseK incapable of repairing the advancing loss. Prom health to suppuration is not one step, at once attained, but a transition gradually effected; the time occupied varying according to circumstances. In some cases a very few hours suffice ; in others, days may have elapsed, and yet the process is incomplete. Let us take a common surgical example; the application of some acrid substance to the skin. Each component texture of this part may be affected, so soon as brought into contact with the irritant; while, in B