872 CROUP, effort at inspiration ; and now the child either dies suddenly asphyxiated in a convulsive attack during the spasms, or the efforts at respiration grow gradually feebler—tlie nostrils, however, expanding widely at every inspiration ; the face grows more pallid, the pulse quicker, tlie eyes heavy and expressionless, the pupils dilated, coma becomes complete, and the child dies exhausted. The unequivocal symptom of the disease is the exsputation of false membrane, in shreds or moulds of the larynx, tracliea, or bronchi; and this is sometimes attended with very great, but only temporary, relief. The disease runs its fatal course very rapidly, a few days at farthest being its limit; sometimes, in fact, after a few hours, in a very young child, the symptoms will have advanced so far as to render recovery almost impossible. For practical purposes, there may be a convenient division into three stages. 1. The laryngitis simplex, but of greater intensity than in the case of oedema glottidis, and with a marked tendency to spread along the mucous membrane downwards. 2. The fibrinous formation begun; aggravating all the symptoms, and affording serious obstruction to breathing. 3, The lungs and brain implicated, as in the former case, by reason of the continuance of impeded respiration. The lungs, however, in this case, are exposed to an additional source of danger. The inflammatory process, by continuous extension, may have reached the bronchial ramifications ; and to the oppression of the lungs' play, otherwise occasioned, the additional and serious complication of bronchitis may be added. In the first stage, medical treatment is practised; a smart emetic, a warm bath, and repeated hot poultices, with turpentine, appHed to the throat and chest, being of more service than anything else. Blood-letting is ill borne, counter-irritation by bhstering is too tardy, and the continued use of calomel, antimony, or sulphate of copper, is so depressing, that in many cases where they apparently have proved serviceable in checking the progress of the laryngeal symptoms, they have induced so much gastro-intestinal iiTitation as to determine a fatal result. At this period there is no demand for tracheotomy on account of urgency of symptoms connected with respiration ; and the spreading acute inflammatory process is not likely to be limited in either its extent or intensity, by the inflic- tion of a tracheal wound, and retention of a foreign body therem. In the second stage, the symptoms are sufficiently urgent to call for any aid which our art can afford. Tracheotomy will give a more dnect and firee entrance for air passing towards the lungs, than through the affected larynx ; and the larynx will be placed in a state of comparative rest, favourable to recovery. But the same good result does not follow as in the case of acute oedema glottidis. In croup, unfortunately, the disease is not limited to the larynx, but has often passed the site of tracheal wound, and is abeady established in the bronchial tubes; the wound is made—not in a comparatively sound part, to afford rest to the superior portion of the canal—but in the midst of the disease, affording rest to but a part, and perhaps a minor part, of the disorder's seat, and possibly inducing, by its additional stimulus, an aggravation of the Avhole. Air is let in towards the hmgs, but with only a doubtful chance of reaching them ; for by this time the bronchial tubes may bo clogged with viscid mucus, while certainly the bronchial membrane is itself swoln and iufdtrated.