582 THE USE OF CHLOROFORM. the agent, or to diminisli its dose—letting in inore of tlie atmosplievi'; air—when the pulse becomes very rapid and small, or very slow ; or when the countenance is convulsed, greatly congested, or ghastly pale, witli respiration obviously imperfect. Or, without withdrawing the chloi-o- form, the tip of the tongue is laid hold of with catch-forceps, and pulled forwards to its utmost stretch ; respiration being further facilitated, il need be, by alternating pressure on the chest. The agent first excit<. the functions of the nervous centres, and afterwards suspends tlieni ; affecting the brain first and the spinal cord secondarily, so as to abolifil; sensation and motion for the time ; yet leaving intact the nervous func tions essential to life. In what may be termed the transition stage, the patient inclines to > speak, laugh, sing, or articulate in some way, and muscular movement is considerable. The better the chloroform, the more rapid the inhalation; and the quieter the condition of the patient, the more likely is this stage to be quickly and favourably passed. Then succeeds the condition of insensibility and relaxation ; evidenced by steady breathing—usually more or less stertorous—fixedness of the eye, relaxation of all voluntary muscles, and insensibility to pain. Th" reached—as attested by the eye submitting to be touched without either winking or wincing—the operator proceeds j and, during the operation, it is the business of the administrator to keep up this condition, by occa- sional reapplication of the chloroform from time to time ; never allowing the patient to emerge, even imperfectly, from the state of impassivity and stupor. This condition must be maintained with special care in all opera tions which would otherwise prove very painful, necessarilj'^ impartin, shock to the system; and also in those manipulations, as in the reduc tion of dislocations, in which absolute relaxation of the voluntary muscle is quite essential. It is a condition very nearly allied to impending cessation of life, j patient so anaesthetized seems, to the uninitiated, to be absolutely i articulo mortis. Yery little more would place the circumstances in most critical relation. And two rules emerge accordingly :—1. Xev to place the patient in that state, unless this be absolutely necessarj'-, ( at least highly expedient. 2. When the patient is in that state, let hi] be tended with the utmost solicitude and care. If danger threaten—evidenced by imperfect breathing, collaps countenance, unsatisfactory pulse, and the bleeding from the wo becoming more and more plainly venous in tint—the best restorative free circulation of air around the patient, securing at the same time t certainty of its access to the lungs, by means of the forcible extension i the tongue ; widening the circle of bystanders, opening the windo fanning the face, and, if need be, acting on the chest by conipressi The risk is by asphyxia, to which the cessation of the pulse and ar of the heart's action is always secondary. In minor operations—such as tooth-pulhng, evulsion of nails, ope ing of abscesses, extraction of foreign bodies, etc., where absolute imps sivity is not required—deep stupor is not necessary. For it is foii:- that though the operator in his manipulations may produce umscu