596 WOUNDS OF THE TEMPORAL ARTERY, and exit of the lancet are managed so as to make the wound of the inl,- gument considerahly larger than that in the arterial coats; in order tli;i( there may be no obstruction to the free escape of blood. A section o the wound, in fact, should resemble that of a cone; the truncated ape: corresponding to the aperture in the vessel, the base to that in the in tegument. Some surgeons recommend that a preUminary incision u the integuments should be made, and that the vessel sliould be opem- by a second movement of the lancet; but if the manoeuvre is dex' rously executed there is no necessity for any such refinement. Win , a sufficiency of blood has flowed, it is well to reintroduce the lane*; and to move its point so as to effect complete section, of the vessel; i order that contraction and retraction of each orifice may take place, an natural hemostatics may so be favoured. A graduated compress is th- accurately applied over the wound, and retained by a bandage. Tli dressing should not be disturbed for several days, unless, indeed, symj toms of the inflammatory process make their appearance, indicating tli, suppiiration has occurred. If blood do not escape readily enough, a cupping glass should ] applied; care being taken to raise the rim gently over the artery on i cardiac aspect, otherwise the pressure must inevitably arrest the flo\ And this is the only mode of cupping which can be considered warran able in this situation. Use of the ordinary bcarificator here leaves very unseemly scar, especially in the female. The lancet's puncture arteriotomy is, on the contrary, sh'ght, and its scar scarcely appreciabli and, at the same time, it is to be remembered, that from this one pun ture blood will flow much more freely, than from all the twelve incisio of the ordinary instrument, if only skin-deep. In accidental wounds of the trunk of the temporal artery, deligatii is generally preferable to pressure ; and here both the distal and t proximal extremity should be tied, otherwise recurrence of hemorrha is almost certain. In the case of a mere branch, it may be sufiicie to tie the cardiac orifice—should this even seem necessary; pressi being, as we have already said, preferable under most circumstances. Unpleasant consequences sometimes follow wounds of the tempo artery, whether accidental or intended ; but except in cases where the mt trunk of this vessel has been opened, these are of quite exceptional < currence. False aneurism may form. This, usually, has attained but a small size, ere the patient's attention is arrested by it, and \ surgeon's aid sought. In the majority of cases, it is sufficient to put force the ordinary treatment for recent false aneurism ; to cut throu the tumour, turn out the clot, and secure the vessel by ligature abc and below the wounded point. In those cases to which such procoil may seem inapplicable, removal of the small swelling, by two ellipti incisions, may be had recourse to ; securing each of the bleedmg pi 'i in the ordinary way, and bringing the wound together for adhesion. On removing the compress, after arteriotomy, the wound ma}' found to have degenerated into an ulcer. The ulcemtion spreads, vessel is reopened, hemorrhage recurs ; and, by repetition, the Iops blood becomes hazardous. Pressure, reapplied, may temporarily an the flow; but necessarily favours the advance of ulceration, and