1263 VAGINAL FISTULA. use of instruments. In general, tlie Scame disagreeable resiilts occur as in the former case. Sometimes there is power of retention ; but, in evacuating the urine, it trickles through the vagina, and over the limbs. Recto-vaginal Fistula.—Laceration, or sloughing, of the septum be- tween the vagma and the bowel takes place, from the rash use of instru- ments, or by tearing in the natural efforts of parturition, or as a conse- quence of sloughing from pressure. In the latter case, the perineum usually suffers laceration also. Treatment, palliative or radical, should be commenced as soon as possible after the discovery of the disease. The former consists in taking measures calculated to prevent the constant and involuntary discharge of urine ; the latter implies the use of means to close the abnormal aperture of communication. In the advanced stages of cancer of the female organs, these fistulre frequently are produced by malignant ulceration of the septa. Of course, in such cases, no surgical treatment is admissible. Tlie Palliative Treatment of the Vesico-vaginal Fistula consists in occupying the vagina by a restraining plug ; attending to cleanliness; pre- venting filth, foetor, and excoriation. Probably the best means of occupy- ing the vagina is by a piece of sponge, repeatedly changed ; or by a pyriform caoutchouc-bottle, of moderate size; enveloped in a piece of oiled silk j introduced in a state of collapse, and then inflated by means of a nozzle and stop-cock—or by means of such a valve as is used in air-tight cushions. Thus accurate compression is made on the aperture, so as to prevent escape of urine ; and both comfort and cleanliness are obtained. The bottle is withdrawn daily, the air being previously permitted to escape j at the same time, the vagina may be cleared of accumulated secretion by means of a syringe, and foetor may be removed by a solution of the chlorurets. The bottle, having been cleaned, is replaced. Immediately after the occurrence of the accident, something may be done to favour contraction of the aperture, and perhaps spontaneous cure. The patient is directed to lie as much as possible on her face; a catheter is constantly retained—being removed only for the purpose of being cleaned ; a sponge, or some dressing, which must be changed with great gentleness, is placed in the vagina, of sufficient size to exert a moderate closing pressure on the injured part—so as to prevent cohesion of the wound to the waUs of the vagina, with consequent complication of the case. Unfortunately, however, the catheter cannot, in all cases, be tolerated, and consequently the benefit of this plan of treatment is lost. The bowels are to be either altogether prevented from moving, or kept gently open, so as to preclude the necessity of straining. The minor cases have been radically cured by the occasional use of the actual cautery. The part is exposed by means of the speculum ; the iron, at a white heat, is accurately applied to the aperture ; and, at long intervals, the application is repeated. The judicious operator, who wisely seeks only the remote, cicatrizing, and puckering effect of the burn, will seldom, if ever, make the interval shorter than three weeks ; and often even a longer period may be found advisable. At the same time, all avoidable exertion is abstained from, the recumbent posture is maintained as much as possible, the vagina is temporarily occupied by a sponge or other plug, cleanliness is much attended to, and the marital use of the