CHAPTER XIV. DISEASES OF THE JOINTS. Formerly, all tlie grave examples of disease in joints were included un- der one common designation, " White sioellinga custom, scarcely con- venient, which led to much confusion and inaccuracy as to the nature of the affections, as well as to uncertainty in their treatment. But, thanks to the labours of modern surgeons—among whom, in this department, the name of Sir Eenjamin Brodie stands pre-eminent—much of this con- fusion and uncertainty have been dispelled; and each disease, set forth in its proper site and character, may have its appropriate remedy or system of treatment assigned. As can be readily understood, however, such discrimination can be practised only while the disease is yet com- paratively recent; for, after a time, the morbid process, in whatever texture it may have originally dwelt, involves the whole articulating ap- paratus in one chaos of disease. It is at the beginning of the attack that treatment is most likely to prove successful; and fortunately, it is at the same period that we enjoy a facility and accuracy of diagnosis. We shall consider, in succession, the results of disease in the different component textures of the joints; 1. In the Synovial Membrane; 2. In the Cartilage ; 3. In the Bones. SYNOVITIS. By this term is meant the inflammatory process occurring in synovial membrane. It may be either acute or chronic. Acute Synovitis. The inflammatory process tends to spread from one part over the ■whole membrane, to be accompanied with much inflammatory product, and to result in serious change of structure. At first, the membrane be- comes congested, turgid, and shews an apparent increase of vascularity, especially in the plica vasculosse; the natural secretion is poured out in increased quantity, and of a more aqaeous character than in health. This necessarily causes general swelling; which forms almost synchronously with the first painful indication of the morbid process, and is diagnostic of the aifection. Then the membrane begins to change in structure. It be- comes thickened, soft, red, abnost pulpy; and loses its translucency, as tim fv. ' ^""^^"^^^^ glistening appearance of its internal surface. At this mom ' l""'™"''^^^^^ product ceases to be chiefly serous, and contains or less of fibrin, usually floating about in detached flakes ; and