SYPIIILIZATION. 1196 employed against eypliilis. In October 1852 he made liis first essays. In March 1858 he had already syphilized no less than two hundred patients* And in his great work.t published in 1862, he states that his experience of the effects of syphilization extends over 252 cases, in wliich no mercurial treatment had previously been employed. Professor Boeck's directions for the employment of syphilization are as follows :—" I take the virus of an indurated chancre contracted in coitu, or of a pustule or artificial ulcer resulting in an individual who is being syphilized. I make the first inoculations upon the side of the trunlt—three upon each side. After three days have elapsed, I make three more inoculations, employing for this purpose the matter from the last pustules. I continue in this way to inoculate the sides every three days, always employing for tliis purpose the matter of the last pustules, till I reach a point when a negative result is attained. Then I begin to inoculate the two arms, and I continue the inoculation in the same way until the matter here, too, ceases to produce any effect. Having reached this point, I take matter from another patient, and I inoculate the sides of the arms in both parts at once, and I continue with the new matter precisely in the same way as with the first, till it, too, ceases to act. When the condition of immunity on the arms and sides has been reached with the second matter, I begin the inoculations upon the thighs, and I continue precisely as already described till here, too, immunity is reached- On the three parts mentioned I then make further inoculations with matter obtained from other patients, till no matter wliich I can obtain produces any effect whatever." Inoculating in this way. Dr. Boeck re- commends that the virus from the indurated chancre should be em- ployed ; believing that the virus of the soft and indurated chancres are virtually the same, but that the effect of the virus is more intense in the one than in the other. As the effects begin to diminish, he employs a more and more intense form of virus, using it then without any fear of inducing phagedtena. The site for the introduction of the matter is of importance; the lateral aspects of the chest and abdomen being best suited for the beginning of the process, as sores situated there have less irritability attending on them than those placed elsewhere—except, indeed, upon the face—chancres there being small, attended with but slight irritability, and tending sooner to cicatrize than in any other locaUty. The multiplication of punctures at each inoculation is unnecessary; one, two, three, or four may be made to prevent the risk of failure—not from exhaustion of the virus, but from inadvertence in practising this little operation. In making multiple punctures, they should not be placed too close to each other, lest they coalesce and form a painful ulcer, which may become phagedaenic. The operation should furthermore be practised with scrupulous regularity; as, if performed too often or too seldom, v either the period of complete immunity may be reached before the erup- tions have disappeared, or the process may be indefinitely protracted— the sores formed being larger, more painful, and more liable to become phagedsenic than when the process is conducted with precision. The * Edinburgh Medical Journal, April 1858, p. 913. t Eecherches sur la syphilis appuy6es de tableaux de statistique tirds dcs archives des Hopitaux de Christiania, par W. Boeck, 1862.