CHAPTEK XIL AFFECTIONS OF THE SEROUS AND MUCOUS MEMBEANES. These belong rather to the department of the physician, than to that of the surgeon; still it is necessary to notice them shortly here, surgery being not nnacquaiated with both their immediate and their remote consequences. TJie Injiammatory Process affecting Serous Membrane. Serous membranes are especially liable to assume the inflammatory process; with or without a direct exciting cause. ITie process varies, according to circumstances, in its kind and degree; and, as it varies, so do the results. Under all circumstances, it is apt to spread widely and rapidly, by continuity; and in all acute cases the constitutional symptoms are severe. Usually, also, much local pain attends. At first, the natural secretion may be diminished, or arrested; after- wards it becomes more profuse, containing fibrin, and also a greater proportion of albumen than is usual. The balance between product and absorption may, in the outset, scarcely be overborne ; but very soon accumulation is begun, and advances; constituting dropsy. Such accumu- lating fluid departs more and more from the healthy standard ; ultimately becoming puriform, and often containing more or less of true purulent admixture. But the membrane itself undergoes important change; at first injected and spongy, afterwards enlarged and roughened; and often coated, more or less thickly, with plastic product which becomes organized, and variously modified in structure. In chronic disease, of a mild type, simple thickening and opacity of the membrane take place, accompanied with more or less accumulation of serosity ; as is frequently observed in the arachnoid. By the serous accumulation, dropsy is produced; and injurious con- sequences may ensue, on account of the mere bulk of the efiusion; inde- pendently of other circumstances attendant on the morbid process. By the plastic formation, opposing surfaces may be united and incorporated; sometimes producing harm, as when the heart adheres to its pericardium, or the lung to the pleura costahs; sometimes, however, productive of much benefit, as when the bowels so cohere on their serous surfaces as to prevent purulent irruption, or faecal extravasation, into the general pentoneal cavit3^ It is seldom that acute dropsical accumulation occurs, without plastic change in the membrane; it is not uncommon, however, for agglutination of opposite serous surfaces to take place, even extensively, with but little accumulation of serum.