PERIOSTITIS. 272 When tlio node is connected witli venereal taint of the system, it is termed Syphilitic; Avhen the result of mercury, Mercm-ial. Often a combination of the two is spoken of, Mermrio~BiJX>liilitic. These forms, especially the first, are usually more cirouniscriljed and abrupt, and of a rounder form, than those nodes which are not connected with such predisposing cause. On the cranium, ordinary nodes do not form. And when under the influence of syphilis patches of the pericranium become affected by in- flammatory disease, the result is either mere thickening of the membrane ; or unhealthy nutrition of the osseous lamina beneath it, with more or less opening out of the texture of the bone, accompanied with either molecular death of a portion of the diseased texture, or sometimes even with partial exfoliation. To such cases the term Soft node is sometimes applied. When the process is acute, and suppuration has taken place between the bone and periosteum—instead of plastic formation there—the symptoms are greatly aggravated, by reason of the unyielding nature of the textures involved. The natural progress of the acute abscess out- wards is arrested by the unyielding fibrous investment; the connections between the periosteum and bone are broken up; and the abscess extends laterally, the bone becoming more and more stripped of its mem- brane. The inflaming bone becomes disintegrated by ulceration at the point or points most implicated in the inflammatory process; or, being at once inflamed and deprived of its nutritive membrane, it is not unlikely to perish under the complication of evils, and become necrosed. In acute periostitis, such destructive results may foUow in the course of a few days ; the system at first oppressed by grave inflammatory fever, subsequently exhausted by hectic. In the chronic form, weeks and months elapse, with but little change in the symptoms, or apparent alteration in the structural results; but with a frame gradually yet plainly yielding before the continued irritation. In the latter class of cases, the membrane is found much thickened, dense, and increased in vascularity, and unusually adherent to the corresponding bone, which has become opened out in texture, and roughened by nodules of new osseous matter, particularly around the openings upon the surface of the Haversian canals. In scrofulous patients, chronic periostitis is common in the extremi- ties ; often involving the whole girth of the Umb, for some extent; and producing such firm hard swelling as may be mistaken for solid enlarge- ment of the bone itself. In children, the phalanges of the fingers are specially liable to this affection. Wherever situated, it is seldom accom- panied by urgent symj)toms; and it is amenable to constitutional treatment suitable for opposing the predisposing cause; cod-liver oil with iron proving particularly valuable. In the neighbourhood of a joint, periostitis is apt to extend to the synovial membrane; from the tibia to the knee, for example ; a serious complication. Near the hip-joint, on the posterior part of the pelvis, Mr. Stanley has observed periostitis to be peculiarly severe, when occurring as a secondary affection after parturition. In its symptoms, it simulates