69 THE MOXA. During an advancing destruction of texture in the articulating ends of bone—more especially if deeply-seated—all other means of counter- irritation may, in the first instance at all events, give place to the actual cautery. Speedy arrest of such disease is our anxious desire, ere the change shall have proved irreparable; and wo are culpable, if we do not at once employ that remedy which we know to be most available to the important end. In chronic affection of some of the internal organs, also, a cure may sometimes be obtained by the actual cautery, after having been denied to all other means. The cautery may be flat, edged, or globose. By some the flat, by Fig. 15. others the edged form is preferred for the purpose of application. It is heated to a white heat, and rubbed or scored in lines upon the part, to the extent deemed requisite. The lines of burn, though more painful than a moderately broad continuous slough, are equally efi'ectual as counter-irritants; and are fre- quently preferred, as, on healing, they leave a much less marked cicatrix. The applying hand, in any case, should rest long enough on the part to destroy the entire thickness of the true sldn; so as to avoid the very painful burn which would otherwise result, from exposure of the sensi- tive cutis; and it was with this view, that we specified the whiteness of the hot iron. But the application should not be so heavy as to lead to the involvement of subcutaneous parts in the separation of the eschar— an unnecessary and unwarrantable sacrifice of texture. For a few hours after the cauterization, cold is continuously applied; to allay the pain, which, though much less at first than could be anticipated, is, when in- flammatory reaction sets in, very severe. Afterwards the eschar is covered Avith a tepid poultice. The cautery may be applied with or without the previous induction of anaesthesia, according to the wish of the practitioner, and the capacity to bear pain on the part of the patient. The Moxa, once much in vogue, has latterly fallen into comparative desuetude—scarcely deserved. It consists of either a cylindrical or conical roll of porous substance, adapted for steady and gradual combus- tion. It may be made of the down of the ao'temisia latifolia—the substance originally employed; or a very convenient substitute for the Chinese original may be obtained in fine cotton wadding; carefully dried after immersion in a solution of nitrate of potass; and enveloped in tissue paper, leaving the ends free. It is held in the regular portemoxa, or in the noose of a common wire, or grasped with a pair of dressing forceps. One end having been placed over or on the part to be cauterized, the other is set fire to; and ignition is maintained, by either a blow- pipe or bellows. According to the distance at which the burning mass IS held from the part, the efl"ect may be made to vary, from simple redness to actual eschar; and the latter may be in the same way Fig. 15. The actual cautery, of its most ovdinary form.