13 THROBBING. distance from that in which the disease resides. Sucli a part is either connected intimately, hy function, with the other; or it contains the terminal expansion of nerves, whose trunks pass through or near the inflaming part. Thus we may have disease of the hip causing in- finitely fess pain in that joint than in the region of the knee ;^ abscess of the liver producing pain in the shoulder j affection of the pelvis of the kidney causing pain at the orifice of the urethra. It is of the utmost importance that the practitioner bear this in remembrance j otherwise he may be leeching the knee, instead of the hip; rubbing the shoulder, instead of attacking the liver; looking for the outbreak of a gonorrhoea, instead of opposing a renal malady which is soon to bring life into im- minent peril. Pain is of itself a formidable thing; if intense and constant, certain to exhaust the powers of life ; and, in consequence, in many inflamma- tory affections it must be overcome at whatever cost. Also, when the part inflaming is an internal organ, intimately connected with the o-ano'lionic system of nerves, the pain is of a peculiarly depressing nature, and°highly dangerous by continuance. But, ordinarily, the attendance of pain may be viewed rather as of a salutary tendency. Were the affection painless, practitioner and patient might be unaware either of its existence or of its extent, until too late to save texture, function, or even life. When an inflammatory process is the result of the direct application of an exciting cause—as by wound, heat, or acrid substance—pain usually precedes the vascular disorder ; an immediate effect on the nerves of sensation. This may continue, more or less, and become merged in the inflammatory pain; or it may soon ceaae, leaving the greater portion of the period of incubation comparatively free. Such pain is also not without its use, leading to precautionary and preventive measures—often more valuable than the curative. 5. Throbhing.—This seems to be the result of obstructed circulation in the part with increased afflux of blood to it; and does not occur, at least to any extent, until the process has reached the period of sangui- neous stagnation. It varies according to the degree and extent of ob- struction, the intensity of the disease which has produced it, and the position as well as the inherent sensibility of the part affected. Experience teaches that when there is much throbbing attendant on the inflammatory process, suppuration is likely to ensue. It is easy to imagine how this should be the case; in a part with its direct circula- tion much depressed, and its collateral current much increased, with inflammatory product copious, and extravasation by lesion imminent. Throbbing is painful; at each pulse the patient's sufferings are in- creased. It is then that the nerves, already tightened in their place by the circumjacent lymph, are most severely compressed; and it is then that the vascular coats, themselves disordered, are stretched as well as dilated. 6. Disorder of Function.—This, as we have seen, affects the general function of every cell-structure in the part undergoing the inflammatory process, by which the healthy balance of nutritive change and exchange is, more or less, impaired or perverted. We observe the functional