TEEATxMENT OF TETANUS. 513 however, by tlie narration of tho case, the sudden onset of the symjjtoms, and the intermittent manifestation of them according to the repetitions of the poisonous dose—or their rapid fiital advance, in the case of a single dose sufficient to destroy Hfe. Hysteria sometimes achieves a very close simulation. And yet it is capable of being readily distinguished by the careful observer ; spasm and rigitlity being more decidedly paroxysmal, possessing periods of com- plete intermission, and evidently being to a great extent within control of the patient's will; also, the ordinary signs of hysteria are present, usually in a distinct and prominent form.. Treatment.—Prevention is Kkely to be accomplished :—in the first place, by avoiding the class of wounds most prone to prove prejudicial in this way ; in the second place, and mainly, by adopting the simple, non-irritating treatment of all wounds, such as we have endeavoured to inculcate. The disease having occurred, the indications of treatment resolve themselves into those which regard the part, and those which regard the system. As to the part. Amputation has been proposed and practised, but with very indifferent success. It can only be of use at an early period of the case, as already observed. The result of my OAvn experience is favourable to the minor operations ; unfavourable to the larger. Unless excessive pain in the limb, or some urgent state of the part itself (as slougliing, infiltration, hemorrhage), rendered its removal necessary, I should not feel warranted in performing any of the greater amputations, in the hope of relieving tetanus. Incision, made to surround the part on its cardiac aspect, deep and ■wide enough to cut off all nervous communication, is plausible in theory; and experience already has spoken somewhat in its favour. It is a simple and safe procedure, and may often be practised when amputation camiot. For the latter operation, at an advanced period of the case, is in no circumstances warrantable ; the shock and loss of blood being certain to accelerate the fatal issue. Should any painful operation be deemed expedient, the use of antesthesia will be especially productive of good in this disorder, as can be readily imagined; not only rcheving pain and shock, but also saving the nervous system from otherwise liighly injurious excitement. The actual cautery is by some recommended for the wounded part; by those who imagine that some poisonous material generated in the wound by absorption produces the symptoms. Its use has not been attended by success. On the contrary, the treatment there should surely 1)6 of the bland and soothing kind ; as water-dressing, or light poultice ^hot, and merhcated by sedatives, as opium or belladonna ; incision, however, being never withheld, to relieve tension, evacuate abscess, or arrest diffuse infiltration—when such indications require to be fulfilled. As to the system. Eleeding, in genuine tetanus, is not expediejit. if used at all, it must be early, and with a sparing hand ; and, as in ^ydrophohia, rather as an adjuvant to other remedies than itself a means ot cure. Purging is essential at the first, as can readily be understood ; fa ^'^^^ *o ^-'6 dislodged from the interior, and much depravity 01 the intestinal secretion to be corrected. Croton oil, olatcrium, or 2 L