41 rREVENTION. ment is to mitigate or remove these untoward influences. By some, hot water, or its steam, is applied constantly ; and it is not unlikely to suc- ceed in suhduiug the nervous excitement—so breaking off one element at least of the first link in the chain. But the second step of the ini- tiatory process, seldom far disjoined from the first, we saw to be a change in the circulation of the part, which is likely to be pushed on by those very apphcations whereby the other nervous impression is held back. Cold, continuously applied, is therefore preferable; inasmuch as it is calcidated to fulfil a threefold indication, by exerting a soothing or seda- tive effect on the textural vitality, as well as on the nervous and vascular systems of the part, and so rendering accession of the inflammatory process more improbable. Any means we can employ which will remove these first hnks of the chain is likely to frustrate its further formation. But this simple remedy requires nicety and care in its application. The first effect of cold, as formerly stated, is sedative, the second reactive; the first is opposed to textural and vascular excitement, the second invites its occurrence ; the first we desiderate, the second we wish to avoid. To be prophylactic, therefore, its application must be continuous ; if interrupted, however briefly, reaction is imminent—not only to arrest, but to undo the good effects of all the previous precaution. The part is covered by a loose layer of fine lint, and a trustworthy attendant keeps this con- stantly moist and of low temperature, by cold water frequently and gently dropped on it out of a sponge ; the slightest dryness or warmth being dreaded, as directly opposed to the object in view. Or the assistant may be dispensed with, and a process of constant irrigation employed; a thin strip of lint, or a skein of cotton, being arranged as a syphon in communication with the part, and a water-vessel placed in its immediate vicinity; or by means of a lump of ice suspended in a bag over the injured part, water of a known temperature drops constantly upon the surface. In any case, the bed-clothes should be protected by the interposition of oil-cloth or gutta percha j arranged slopingly, so as to favour the draining away of the water, after it has trickled over the seat of injury. The part is to be kept absolutely quiet, or at least as much so as circumstances will possibly permit; and it should also be so placed as to favour venous return and oppose arterial influx ; at the same time relaxing those muscles which are either directly or indirectly implicated. Low diet, too, with abstraction of all stimuh, whether local or general, must be strictly enjoined. Parts simply stimulated—that is to say, without wound—may by such treatment be altogether saved from inflammatory accession. And many incised wounds may thus be brought to rapid and almost painless healuig, by adhesion; the inflammatory process not having been wholly prevented, but being kept subdued and Hmited in its range to the con- structive results. Treatment Removal of the cause, if within reach, ought assm-edly, in every in- stance to be our first care. That preliminary point having been suc- cessfully carried, we will then be enabled to attain our principal object by the use of comparatively slight means; with little trouble to our-