253 SUBCUTANEOUS ERYSIPELAS. keep on the safe side in practice; by treating the disease, especially in hospital, with every precaution against communication. Not unfrequently, it is complicated with other maladies; also of a serious nature. Plilebitis and angeioleucitis own the same predisposing and exciting causes ; the predisposing being constitutional disorder of a gastric character, sinister atmospheric influence, or both ; the exciting— ; wounds, and other mechanical injuries, more especially when treated un- I skilfully. Subcutaneom Erysipelas, or " Wliite Rose." The peculiarities of this form are :—^the subcutaneous areolar tis- sue is the primary seat of the inflammatory process, and often the skin j remains throughout entirely unaffected; the effusion is serous, the pro- ' cess tending to remain in the first stage; there is no great tendency to tension; heat and smarting may be considerable, with tenderness to the i touch, and a considerable portion of the surface may be involved; yet j the sympathetic fever is usually slight and manageable under very simple I means. The surface is pale, though hot, and pits on pressure. The ' most ordinary site is the forehead. The attack may follow a blow or ! other injury, or occur spontaneously. Its natural progress is towards a favourable issue; the swelling, heat, and pain lessening after a day or two; slight feverishness proportionally declining; and, within a week i or less, both part and system shaking themselves altogether free of the disorder, restoration is complete. Treatment is simple. Fomentation for a day or two ; rest; gentle aperients ; cautious diet j and the sustained internal use of iron. Varieties of Erysipelas. CEdematous Erysipelas.—This implies a low grade of the inflam- matory process, in a weak system, mainly involving the subcutaneous areolar tissue. Swelling is great, but gradual; soft; and pitting, deeply and durably, on pressure. There is no tension, and little heat or pain; itching, rather, is complained of, and the redness is of a pale hue. The extremities, especially the lower, are the parts most frequently affected. Constitutional symptoms are but sHght. There is obvious derangement of health; more of the asthenic than of the sthenic character; yet scarcely referrible to any peculiar type. Treatment—Punctures are advisable; but they need be few in num- ber. Their main use is to drain off the serum. For a day, or so, fomentation is employed; and then uniform bandaging is had recourse to --at an earlier period, and more perseveringly maintained, than in any other form of erysipelas. There is little risk of reinducing the inflamma- tory process ; and stimulation of absorption is the paramount indication. At the same time, diuretics will probably be expedient; and iron is treely given from the first. General disorder of secretion may require alteratives. Withal, a tonic system of treatment is to be maintained ; and sometimes it requires to be rather actively pui>sued. BiUons Erysipelas.—This term is appUed to tliose cases of Erysipelas