SOUNDING. 1082 bo tried. The urine may be allowed to di-ibble away by tlie side of the sound ; and, as the bladder contracts, the sound is moved gently in various directions, so as to favour distinctness in the sensation of con- tact should the stone descend upon it. Or a catheter, shaped like the sound, may be substituted; and, during rapid contraction of the bladder, contact may be ascertained. After failure by all the ordinary means' success has followed the use of an elastic catheter in this way:—Wit]! the bladder full, the patient, erect, makes water in a full stream through the instrument; and, as the last drops escape, the stone falls on the point of the catheter and is felt. In all cases of difficulty, the introduc- tion of the fingers into the rectum to support the prostate and elevate the trigone should be employed, especially in children and elderly patients. In the former, the calculus will usually be found to fall back- wards towards the fundus, and then come in contact with the sound; in the latter, the finger seems rather to act by raising the surface of a medium- sized stone above the level of the enlarged prostate, thus bringing it within range of the instrument. In some of these last-mentioned cases, by turning the beak of the sound round, and sweeping it behind the prostate, a small calculus will be felt which has previously escaped detection. In some cases, a sound curved like a lithotomy staff forms a better instru- ment for discovering a stone than the short-beaked one. "Whenever difficulty is experienced in detecting a stone, in a case of plain symptoms, it is better to repeat gentle exploration at intervals, than by one continuous and prolonged perquisition to endanger the occurrence of cystitis and sympathy of the kidney—perhaps peritonitis by exten- sion, and deatk In children, the prudent surgeon is not satisfied with any obscurity ; the click and rub must both be very distinct; the rest- lessness and crying of the patient being otherwise apt to lead to deception. It is cliiefiy in such cases that blank lithotomy has been performed. And to guard against this, it is in such cases that the use of chloroform is especially serviceable. But, by the sound's use, we may ascertain some of the characters of the stone, as well as its existence. Moving the point over the stone's surface, we may be able to estimate the smoothness or roughness of it. Passing it over, and on all sides of the stone, we may obtain some idea of its form and bulk ; and, by the finger of the other hand in the rectum, we may in children be greatly assisted in this conclusion, by feeling its weight, as it were, while at the same time its diameter, at least in one direction, is made apparent. Moving the sound in the bladder, we may have a distinct sensation of one stone being left, while another is encountered by the instrument; or plurality of stones may be indicated by another circumstance, the stroke of the instrument ehciting different sounds at different parts of the bladder—the sounds differing as to clear- ness, and as to pitch or tone. Also a large stone is at once detected; a small one may long elude the sound. And again, while the rub and grating imparted by a large stone are most distinct, the click of a small stone is more clear and defined; and the following practical inference may be almost arrived at—the smaller the stone the sharper and more distinct the click ; the larger the stone the more palpable the feel. Further, when the symptoms have been of long duration, we may expect