611 TREATMENT OF COMPRESSION BY BLOOD. propriety in interfering by operation. We watch the patient, as in a case of concussion, ready to meet any symptoms which may appear. Tlie brain gradually recovers. The extravasation is slowly absorbed. Our duty is to avert the inflammatory process, if possible, by the ordinary means ; to moderate it, should it occur. And we should ever remember that perforation of the cranium, by means of the trephine, even should we be fortunate enough to light upon the site of the extravasation, is far more likely to set up than prevent the access of inflammatory mischief. II.—Extravasation of Blood on or in the Brain. ' As already stated, the blood may be variously situated ; intra-mem- branous; in the pia mater, and diffused on the surface of the hemi- spheres ; or at the base of the brain; or within the ventricles ; or infil- trated into the cerebral tissue. And, unfortunately, the most careful examination of the history, symptoms, and progress of the case, will often not enable us to ascertain, with anything like certainty, the exact site of the evil. The symptoms are those of compression, more or less urgent in their character, and more or less speedy in their accession, according to the site, amount, rapidity, and time of the extravasation. Usually, the escape of blood is not immediate—at least to such an extent as to cause symptoms of decided compression—but secondary, on the occurrence of reactioru The patient may have been from the first insensible, by con- cussion ; and this minor insensibility may be simply merged in the major insensibility of compression ; or between the two there may be a greater or less interval of consciousness. The cerebral or membranous lesion, which permits the sanguineous escape, may follow on a concussive injury of the cranium; on extensive fracture of the cranium, with or without depression; on mere fissure of the skull—more especially when this is situate at the base ; or on a penetrating wound, of any kind. There is the same prognosis as in the case of extravasation exterior to the dura mater. The brain may recover, and the extravasation be absorbed; or the brain, recovering partially from compression, suff"ers, perhaps fatally, by inflammatory accession—immediate or remote ; or the compression is most urgent, and directly terminates existence by coma. Rapidity of extravasation is more important than the amount; and the site of the escape is of more consequence than either. A comparatively small quantity of blood rapidly, or at once, extravasated, will induce more urgent symptoms of compression than twice the amount which has slowly oozed from the torn vessels; and while a large fiat coagulum may ress with comparative impunity on the upper and anterior part of the emispheres, a slight amount of blood acting on the base of the brain— ore especially at its posterior part—never fails to induce the most enous and urgent consequences. Treatment.—Prevention may be in our power. Concussion may wmr, along with slight lesion of the cerebral substance; and from this ^on little or no blood may escape during the period of depression, ne injury having been such as to engender a suspicion of these circum- ances, it is plainly our duty to protract and repress reaction; when it