62 LEECHES. strong tinctui-e. If this fail, insert the point of a finely-pencilled por- tion of nitrate of silver, carefully into (not on) the aperture; press steadily with it there, for a few seconds ; and immediately on its removal apply a compress of lint, retained hy either the finger or a bandage. It is not often that this procedure is demanded; and still more rarely does it fail, when duly practised. If it should fail, however, then transfix the part by a fine needle, and encompass this firmly by a ligature; as in the formation of the " twisted suture." * Troublesome bleeding is most likely to occur in cliildren ; more especially if the leeches have been applied to parts not only of active circulation, but also exposed to constant or frequent motion; as in the neck. And it is a safe general rule, applicable to leeching at a tender age—when, as we have seen, much bleeding is but ill borne—that the patient be not left, particularly over night, until bleeding has fairly ceased. To leech a child on the chest or neck, to cover the part with a large hot poultice, and to leave it thus for some hours, is to incur the risk of the patient's perishing by hemorrhage. In regard to cliildren, it should further be remembered, that the loss of blood by a few leeches is equivalent to a full bleeding from the arm in the adult. But there are other precautions in regard to the application of leeches :—1. They should not be placed where there is either frequent or constant motion; as on the neck, or over the costal cartilages ; otherwise, the bleeding is not unlikely to prove troublesome. 2. Nor should they be placed on parts habitually exposed, especially in females ; as on the neck pr face ; otherwise the cicatrices may prove unseemly. And when it is remembered that local bleeding, unless in large quantity, is usually most effectual when indirectly taken from the part, we shall seldom find it difficult to fulfil the foregoing indications. 3. In chil- dren, it is well to avoid large superficial veins ; especially in the neck. 4. Nor should leeches be placed where the areolar tissue is peculiarly lax and delicate, as in the eyelids ; otherwise ecchymosis, acute oedema, or both, are apt to ensue. 5. IsTor where subcutaneous nerves or lymphatics abound ; otherwise much pain may be occasioned, and the occurrence of either erysipelas or angeioleucitis rendered not unlikely ; in the case of the fore-arm, for example, the dorsal will be preferred to the palmar aspect. 6. They should not be placed directly on the part inflaming ; for, (1.) unless in sufficient numbers to prove spoliative, their efi'ect may not be antiphlogistic, but the contrary; (2.) because they are apt to prove irri- tant, and may, by adding fresh stimulus, hurry on instead of arresting the inflammatory process. In addition to the irregular form of wound, and the strain of suction, the introduction of acrid matter from the crea- ture's own secretions may sometimes irritate. On this account leeches are properly superseded by punctures in erysipelas. 7. They should not be placed in the immediate vicinity of an acute ulcer, more especially if this be of a specific kind ; otherwise the bites are apt to be inoculated, and consequently to degenerate into ulcers j so extending, instead of * I think it unnecessary to notice the many other contrivances for stopping leech- bites ; being satisfied that one or other of the simple means, here specified, will be found in every case successful.