664 EPirilORA, up the tears as they are sccretecL E'pipltora is, however, at the present day usually employed to designate both conditions, without consideration i of tlieir cause. The watery eye may be either congenital, or the result of injury or disease. It is best treated when due to lachrymal or conjunctival irritar tion by means of sedative and astringent coUyria ; by weak solutions of: nitrate of silver, or of wine of opium or of atropine, dropped upon tlie eye once a day ; or by exposing the eye to the vapour of laudanum, or bath- ing it with a weak belladonna lotion ; using, at the same time, some oxide of zinc or weak red precipitate ointment to the edges of the lids night, when there is any derangement of the Meibomian seci-etion. In all cases, not prominently connected with some more importai affection of the eye, the state of the general system must be carefull- looked to ; for it is extremely probable that no slight declension fcoi health will be found ; and, unless tliis be remedied, all local treatmeni will prove of comparatively little avail. Sometimes the affection if caused by a detached eyelash getting into one of the canal iculi, and block- ing up the punctum, while its protruding end irritates the conjunctivi Often the watery eye is but a symptom of general ophthalmia, and onl' to be cured by its subjugation. When it results ft-om. a contracted o displaced condition of the puncta, or obstruction in the canaliculi, thesi conditions are to be treated by passing a iine grooved probe director L the inferior punctum along the canaliculus into the sac, and shtting n]i||| the conjunctival aspect of the lid by nmning a suitable knife along tli groove. This plan of treatment was first introduced by IMr. Bo-mnan i 1851, and has completely superseded every other method previous) employed, in the treatment of affections of the lachrymal excretory aj paratus. When there is relaxation or atony of the lachrymal sac, the stimulating collyiia are to be used. Occasionally, a small blister apphe over the sac is of use. When the nasal duct is obstructed, measures mu be taken to effect its clearance. By passing probes of graduated sizdj along the sUt-up canaliculus into the sac, and then tui'ning their directia downwards, inwards, and backwards, the probe glides through the down the duct, and into the floor of the nostril. Xeroma denotes an opposite condition; a dryness of the eye, d' pendent on deficiency, or entire absence, of the lachrymal secretioi Frequently it is a temporary prelude to graver affections of the eye, an inflammatory nature. When it occurs singly, and persists—as is b' seldom—restoration of the secretion is to be coui-ted by ordinary stim lant means ; or glycerine diluted with water may be employed to suppi the want. Li congenital cases, the surface of the eye becomes a part the general cutaneous surface, and is covered with a vascular structu resembling in appearance the membraiia niditans of the bird. Ivfiammatory Ajfections of the Lachrymal Sac. The areolar tissue over the lachrymal sac sometimes is the seat of inflammatory process; while, in the first instance, the sac itself is fr A red, itchy, painful swelling exists at the corner of the eye; and t system sympathises slightly. The cause usually is exposure to co