549 FALSE JOINTS. or witli splitting up of the epiphysis; an awkward complication, alike lUfficult of diagnosis and replacement. This form of injury may become secondarily compound, and require, under such circumstances, amputation or excision for its relief. False Joints. Ununiied Fracture.—A fracture may fail to unite, from various causes. 1. If motion he permitted, and still more if it be purposely practised, daily or even occasionally, the formation of callus will be dis- turbed, and the formation of the uniting medium is likely to be altogether frustrated ; the part will probably remain pliable. 2. Or the parts may lie duly adjusted and retained, and reunion may fail by excess of the inflammatory process, in any way induced; suppuration being quite as adverse to the process of healing in bone, as it is in a wound or ulcer of the soft parts. Necrosis, as already stated, is an insuperable obstacle, until the dead portion has been extruded. 3. From constitutional defect, or atmospheric accident, there may be a want of effort in the part; the unit- ing medium is deficient, and what is produced is but imperfectly organized. The last, however, is by much the most rare occurrence of the three. s It may happen that a portion of the soft parts—as a slip of muscle—has become lodged between the fragments. This has in some cases been found to constitute the obstacle to reunion. Age, also, and long sustained habits of intemperance, are sure to delay, and sometimes may prevent the cure. Disunited Fracture.—A fracture, having been consolidated in the ordinary way, may again become loose and movable. This may be the result of fresh mechanical violence, occasioning immediate disruption of the connecting medium. Or it may be a more tardy but equally certain process, the result of inflammatory excess—induced by a less degree of external violence, or by any other cause ; as a wound, recently united by adhesion, may be made to gape, even wider than before, by the acces- sion of suppuration and ulceration. Or the disjunction may be the result of constitutional disorder, entailing a remarkable tendency to ab- sorption of all recent structures, whether in the hard or soft tissues; as is not unfrequently experienced in connection with scurvy. The False joint wlrich results either from disunited or from un- j^l united fracture, bears no true re- semblance to normal articulation. There is neither articular cartilage nor synovial apparatus. The ends of the bone taper somewhat, and are rounded off; they are invested by a dense fibrous expansion: and Fig. 221. , . \, , \ by a sinular texture 01 less density, they are joined together. By such an arrangement, extent Fig. 220. Ununited clavicle. Tbe two portions of bone are merely connected by ligamentous substance. Fig. 221. False joint in the fore-arm. The bones play on each other, by a new ^'inge-Iike joint.