TREATMENT OF SCROFULA. 20G air, exercise, and climato. The food shoidd be in suflicient quantity, generous and nutritive, yet simjile, and not in sucli amount as to exceed the power of digestion. The LoweLs should he kept in a regular and normal state, by attention to diet and exercise; assisted, if need be, by simple laxatives; purgatives, and more especially mercurials, being avoided, unless in urgent circumstances. Mercury, which in the diseases result- ing from hereditary syphilis works magical results, is justly held to be injurious in the scrofulous diathesis, more especially when used so as to produce its constitutional effect; except when acute inflauuiiatory change has seized upon an important and delicate tissue; and even then it must be used warily—for scrofula greatly modifies that tolerance of the remedy which the inflammatory attack would othermse engender. Purgatives, on the other hand, are dangerous, because likely to excite tubercular formation in the mucous .membrane of the intestinal canal, or to cause softening and suppuration of tubercle which may have already formed there. The skin is kept warm, by suflficient clothing—flannel not omitted ; and clean and perspirable, by daily bathing as well as ablution. The bath should be cold; and sea-water is to be preferred, when season and other circumstances are favoujable. Eeaction is the object of the bath ; and when this fails, either altogether or in part, batliing should be abandoned; perseverance would occasion more harm than benefit, exerting a depressing and relaxing influence instead of one that is tonic. Witliin doors, the patient should be at all times in an atmosphere which is dry, pure, and often changed by ventilation; and exercise in the open air should be daily practised, short of actual fatigue. If possible, a climate should be made choice of which is dry, bracing, temperate, and free from sudden yet habitual vicissitude. Should the disease threaten, notwith- standing, this regimen is to be assisted by selections from the class of | simple tonic medicines—bark, cascarilla, calumba, rhubarb, etc. Alkalis j also, cautiously and occasionally administered,* are usually found of service ; not only as neutralizing acid to which the patient is especially , liable, but also seeming to exert a beneficial influence on the bloocL But there are certain remedies which aspire to the rank almost of j specifics in this disease; and the foremost of these are the preparations i of iodine, more especially the iodide of potassium. This medicine is 'i given in solution, in doses of from gr. i. to gr. ui. thrice daily; watcluiig I the effect, so as to avoid the somewhat violent physiological result which I: continuance of full doses is apt to induce. The beneficial operation I: sometimes seems to be increased by combination with cantharides. ( Iron, hkewise, is much in favour; not only as an excellent tonic, but \ also, like the alkalis, as having a beneficial influence on the blood; pro- ! bably augmenting the red corpuscles—as well as the proportion of fibrin, j indirectly through its general tonic eff'ect. Iodine and iron may bo happily combined. The iodide of iron may be given in the solid form, I or as a syrup ; the latter is usually preferred. Tlie nnu-iatcs of lime and i barytes once held a high reputation, but latterly have fallen into disrepute —except when combined with iron, especially the phosphate. Walnut i leaves, in the form of extract, have also been brought prominently for- * Long continuajice of alkalis, it is well known, seldom fails to bring the strongest system into a state of asthenia.