837 AFFECTIONS OF THE EUSTACHIAN TUBE. In clivouic cases, hnt little good need bo expected from local treat- ment ixlone; constitntional moans must bo at the same time, and sedu- lously, eraployecL When cniisloying counter-irritation, the blister should not bo placed over the part allected—otherwise the disease might be in- creased ; but at a distance, as on the nucha, or between the shoulders. Fibrous Bands extending bettoeen the Walls of the Tympanum and its Ossicles, Rigidity of the Mucous Membrane of the Tympanum, Anchylosis of the Stapes to the Fenestra Ooalis, Earthy, Osseous, and Scrofidous For- mation, and Masses of Gholesterine, are pathological conditions which have been met with in dissections of the middle ear, with different frequencies ; the first mentioned being most common, the latter less so. The diagnosis of their existence is to be effected only upon a j)rinciple of exclusion, with probably the exercise of some amount of imaginative ingenuity on the part of the surgeon. Practically the treatment of such conditions must be a matter of hap-hazard—unless, indeed, other indications of morbid change —^in the membrana tympani, for example—and the recent occurrence of the symptoms, should induce the practitioner to resort to mild counter- irritation ; or unless the presence of some gouty, rheumatic, or scrofulous affection elsewhere, requiring treatment, be attended by a manifest ame- lioration in the condition of the patient as to both gout and deafness. Othe^^vise, a hearing tube is the only resource likely to prove of real service in overcoming the latter, wliich, with tinnitus, constitutes the only prominent symptom. Obstruction of the Eustachian Tube. Clearness of the tube is ascertained by directing the patient to shut his mouth and nostrils, and then to expire forcibly, as if blowing his nose. He will be sensible of a click in the ear, produced by the shock of air acting on the membrana tympani—supposing this to be entire; and the sound will be very plainly heard by the surgeon, through a stethoscope placed on the mastoid process. If the tube be open, but clogged with mucus, the noise is of a gurgling or crackling land. When obstruction exists, it may be due to change in the osseous portion of the canal; but far more commonly it depends on tliickening of the mucous membrane, from simple congestion or oedema, or follicular change in the orifice of the tube. Sometimes it is produced by con- .traction of the textures composing its pharyngeal extremity, which have been impHcated in an ulcerated condition due to syphilis or some other cause. A cancerous change in the textures of the part, or the advance of a polypus, whether simple, fibrous, or cancerous, from the posterior nares, may produce the same symptoms by occlusion of the extremity of the tube. To the pressure of enlarged tonsils a like effect has been assigned, ana no doubt the two conditions of enlarged tonsil and obstructed ^ustachian canal frequently co-exist. The true explanation, however, of Jbe concurrence of these two conditions is tliat they are both due to a ^Ke condition of disease, affecting the mucous membrane and its follicles, M po83i])ly kept up and perpetuated by the presence and proximity of tne enlargement of the tonsils.