NECIIOSIS. 297 disease occurring in a more limited form witliin themselves. Examples of the latter affection are not xmcommon in the head of the tibia, in yoimg adults—and often attributable to external injury. Death of even a small i)art of the cancellous tissue there is a formidable disease ; by reason of the great risk to which the Icnee-joint is exposed, of secondary and destructive involvement. Necrosis sometimes also occurs in the articular surfaces of the head of the humerus and femur. The bones most liable to suffer are those most exposed to atmos- pheric influence and mechanical violence. The tibia enjoys an unenvi- able pre-eminence in this respect; next may be ranged the femur, especially at the lower part of its shaft; then the humerus, cranium, lower jaw, clavicle, ulna, etc. The disease, more especially in its acute form, prevails more frequently in the young than in the old. And its causes may be briefly stated to be the same as those of the first stage— ostitis. Of late years, an especial cause has been found to affect the jaws; namely, the vapour generated in the manufacture of lucifer matches. Persons employed in this trade have suffered greatly from necrosis of the tipper or lower jaw, sometimes of both; great deformity ensuing, and sometimes even death. The noxious vapour, perhaps, acts in two ways ; impaii'ing the general health, as well as directly affecting the periosteum. Its main action, however, seems to be the latter. And, in proof of this, it is observed that only those persons suffer who are affected with loss of substance in the teeth. The disease usually begins with moderate perios- titis, which thickens the membrane, and encrusts the jaw with new bony formations. Then suppuration supervenes ; the new bone exfoliates, the soft parts slough and ulcerate, and necrosis more or less extensively sets in. The Process of necrosis may be conveniently divided into stages :—1. The bone, or portion of hone, inflames. Those cases in which the bone is directly killed by external violence, we have already stated, constitute a minority. In considering the process, therefore, it is right that we describe it as it "most frequently occurs ; and accordingly we begin with inflam- matory access. This may be the result of external injury; as wound, bruise, or fracture ; or it may be of apparently spontaneous origin. In wounds implicating bone, the periosteum is often removed j and this obviously impairs power in the part so stripped, which accordingly, on the supervention of ostitis, is predisposed to die. But it by no means follows that because a portion of bone has been denuded of its perios- teum, even rudely, it must inevitably become necrosed. Acute ostitis occurrmg, necrosis is imminent, but not inevitable ; the part may yet retain a sufficiency of power for a successful struggle, and live. But if the periosteum, and the membrane lining the interior—endosteum—both perish, or be removed at corresponding points, death of the portion of bone so isolated, and cut off from its vascular supplies, is then indeed certain. When exposed bone retains its vitality, it is of a brown hue, sounds aull on being struck, emits blood when rudely handled, and is covered by a self-secreted fluid. On the contrary, if it be dead or dying, its colour IS whitish ; it is resonant when struck ; it is dry, unless when moLstencd ])y y)urulent secretion from the surrounding parts; and it does