47 MODIFYING CIRCUMSTANCES. to obtain even tho incompleto euro then, the system must be sorely shaken by the severity of the treatment employed. " OUta principiis " is the invariable motto of the antiphlogistic phlebotoniist. The signs of bleeding having proved effectual are, m general, sufficiently plain. The pulse loses its hardness and thriUing, becoming soft and compressible; it may be either more or less frequent than before ; often the former, at least in the first instance. The local pam and heat cease, or continue in a mitigated form ; the other ordinary signs recede; fimction returns, both in the part and in the system; secretion, general and local, is restored; and, usually, if blood be drawn it ceases to exliibit the inflammatory character. It must be borne in mind, how- ever, that the last result is not invariable. Exceptions to the general nile' in this respect, are by no means imfrequent; and blood may be at least buffed, if not cupped likewise, although the disease has given way ; while on the other hand, this may be persisting, while the blood seems scarcely sizy. It therefore foUows, in either case, that when the evidence of the blood is opposed to that of the other inflammatory signs, the latter are beheved, and guide the practice. Certain circumstances materially affect the practice of blood-letting, and ought always to be taken into consideration. 1. The duration of the disease. As a preventive measure, blood-letting is a mere waste ; it might never have been required ; while, by debihtating, it may produce an in- flammatory process of an asthenic type. The attack having truly begun, general bleeding may be expected to produce the happiest results ; at a more advanced period, a greater quantity of blood must flow, though still the effect may be in the end satisfactory ; but after some consider- able time has elapsed, when the inflammatory product has accumulated, the system may be drained of blood to an absolutely ruinous extent, and yet httle impression may be made upon the local affection. 2. The age, sex, temperament, and occupation of the patient. The three first have been already noticed, as affecting the tolerance of the remedy. Occu- pation is equally important. The robust and temperate peasant is abler to bear, and may therefore require a larger bleeding, than the pale and too often dissipated inhabitant of the crowded city. And, again, among the latter class important variety is found; some—brewers' servants for example—being especially intolerant of tliis remedy. 3. The nature of the part affected. Many a smart inflammatory affection of an external part requires no blood-letting ; while a comparatively small amount of the inflammatory process, affecting an internal and important part, may demand this remedy, and impart to the system power to bear the necessary spohation. Blood-letting is of little service in inflammatory affections of mucous membranes, and is most beneficial in the acute inflammatory diseases of serous and parenchymatous parts. 4. Tlie state of the system previous to the inflammatory attack. The patient may have been plethoric. "We may then bleed freely. He may have been anaemic. "We, in that case, either forego venesection altogether, or practise it most cautiously; using every means in our power to secure the desired-effect with the least possible expenditure of the valuable fluid. 5. The ulterior result. After severe mechanical injury, it is very desirable to limit the coming sloughs and suppurations ; and an obvious