247 SIMPLE ERYSIPELAS. beate treatment, I have met with comparatively few of these unpleasant sequelie. Local applications consist of warm fomentations, whereby the ordi- nary antiphlogistic results are obtained. The vulgar prejudice which at one time existed against " wetting the rose," has long since subsided. One mode of Avetting is indeed highly prejudicial; that is, by cold repel- lent lotions ; more especially when the disease is so situated—on the head, face, or trunk—as to render metastasis not only probable, but certain to prove untoward when it does occur. When tenderness, heat, and pain of the surface are especially great, fomentation may be beneficially medicated ; as by acetate of lead and opium, in weak solution. In the sHghter cases, a comfortable sensation follows dusting the part thickly over by a light and fine powder—as flour, starch, magnesia, or oxide of zinc; probably on account of the stimulus of atmospheric influence being thus removed. Eut, in most cases, it is better to dispense with such an envelope; considering it to be of much higher importance to maintain a constant and complete surveillance of the varying condition of the part. To muaor examples, the simply antiphlogistic use of nitrate of silver is applicable. But it, too, is objectionable, on the score of concealing the true state of the part. And besides, it sometimes seems to have the effect of, as it were, driving the disease from the skin to the subjacent tissue, and so favouring suppuration; as if inducing metastasis from the superficial to the deeper strata, and cencentration there. We may avail ourselves of its circumscribing power, in any case ; as in erythema. But its direct employment we would consider applicable chiefly to erythema; and, in erysipelas, to the minor cases only; namely those which, besides having little intensity, are of limited extent, and situate on the extremi- ties. When employed, it is used in the form of strong solution, laid freely on; so as not only to cover every part of the erysipelatous surface, but also to include a border of sound skin, to the extent of two or more inches around. And as the disease spreads, the application should keep pace with it, by renewal. My own experience of this remedy forbids its direct use in all cases of erysipelas affecting the head or face ; and, while limiting it to the minor forms of the disease everywhere, finds a special favour for it in affections of the extremities. Some recommend the use of ferruginous lotions to the part from the very commencement; the sulphate or tartarized iron being-preferred for this purpose. The application of a bhster to the affected part consti- tuted the favourite treatment of Dupuytren. In some cases of erysipelas, which are from the first acute, and obvi- ously progressive, notwithstanding the suitable treatment by iron and otherwise, local blood-letting may be advisable. For this purpose,' leeches are sometimes employed. But they are apt to do more harm by the irritation of the bites, than good by the abstraction of blood. Their ■suction seems to be inimical to adhesion, and favourable to suppuration and ulceration, even in a previously healthy part. Punctures, rapidly made with the point of a lancet, are preferable. They may be more pamful at the time, but the smarting soon ceases; the inflammatory pro- '■^'sa declining, they usually heal by adhesion; and, on subsidence of