THE SCROFULOUS SORF. 114 flammatory products—mainly serous. And this greatly increases the amount of general swelling, while it no doubt obstructs still further all salutary effort towards repair. The system, originally in a bad state, is worse now; sympathising with the local disorder; and usually evincing, more or less intensely, the ordinary signs of constitutional irritation. Such sores, if left to themselves, sometimes skin over, at least in part; imperfect clearance of the tuberculated texture having probably been effected, by either ulceration or sloughing, or by both. But such cicatrix is very unstable, and certain to be undone at no distant period; disclos- ing a state of matters beneath not in the slightest degree amended. It is blue, soft, spongy, and elevated; whereas the true cicatrix is white, firm, and depressed. It is but as " the green mantle of the standing pool," which only for a time obscures the filthiness beneath. Treatment.—It need hardly be said that the more important part of this is constitutional; attacldng not one symptom of the disease, the sore ; but the disease itself, the scrofula. The nature of that treatment need not be here detailed. Suf&ce it to say, that it must be steadily and patiently persevered in, not only during cure of the local affection, but long after; otherwise immunity from speedy relapse can never be expected. Indeed, the most difficult part of the treatment will be found to consist in pre- venting return of the sores, but lately healed; resumption of the erect posture, exposure to cold, a blow, starvation, an excess in diet, too often sufficing for early reproduction. The local management requires to be energetic, and at first severe. Medicated lotions, ointments, poultices, prove wholly unavailing. There is an unsound foundation for the reparative process ; and that must be cleared away. This may sometimes be effected by the repeated appK- cation of blisters to the whole extent of the surface implicated. Or potassa fusa, in solid substance, is inserted boldly into the infiltrated tissue. If the skin have not abeady given way, it will yield readily before this. And then the caustic is freely moved in various directions ; so as to destroy not only the areolar tissue where tuberculated, but also the in- teguments where thinned, blue, undermined, and obviously incapable of recovery. The work of destruction is completed at once—under chloro- form ; else it is very painful. But it is not necessary to convert all into an immediate eschar. This were to be unnecessarily severe, and to sacri- fice an unwarrantable amount of primary texture. A portion of this is recoverable, under the sthenic inflammatory process which usually follows cauterization of the parts hopelessly diseased. A little experience is needful, therefore, to determine the limits of the escharotic's thrust. The surrounding parts, during the operation, are protected by oil or vinegar ; and afterwards, this is freely applied to the cauterized part also, in order to assuage the pain, and prevent unnecessary extension of the escharotic effect. Dark, bloody discharge oozes out during the application ; containing a considerable quantity of the escharotic in solution ; and this is carefully and constantly wiped away from the integument on which it comes. After such discharge has ceased, the whole part is covered with a poultice. And this dressing is continued until the slough has separated ; disclosiug