CHAPTER 11. THE HEALmG PEOCESS. The power of jSTature to repair injury in the living body is the more remarkable, on account of the processes employed approaching in some cases closely in character to those which are of a destructive nature ; so that whenever, by inflammatory or other morbid change, a portion of tissue has been destroyed or separated from the body, either in. molecules or in mass, we invariably find the slightest favourable change in the morbid process followed by the formation of a material adapted for heal- ing the breach, by the development of new tissue. In the removal of sloughs and the healing of ulcers, in the separation of mortified limbs, in necrosis of bone, and even in some forms of scrofulous and malignant disease, this conjunction of the constructive with the destructive process is constantly observed; and, according as the one or the other predominates, we have the functional disturbance which indicates disease, or the quiet succession of changes which might almost be thought normal, were it not for the abnormal character of lesion which called them forth, and for whose repair they are destined. Eepair is usually painless, destruction painful; repair accompanied by lowly or sub-inflammatory symptoms, destruction by highly inflammatory; repair unattended by constitu- tional changes, destruction marked by fever and irritation. Yet as we have seen in considering the inflammatory process, these two results have features so similar, that the most minute pathological examination will often fad to detect the structural difi'erences between them; and the transition from one to the other is by a process so gradual and imper- ceptible, as to bafiQe all attempts to define the limits of either. In the healing, as in the inflammatory process, there is usually, if not always, an increased cell-proliferation with production upon the surface of the injured part of fibrinous serum. But, in the former, this cell-for- mation takes place strictly according as it is required for the construction of new tissue, or the protection of a yet tender surface; and does not exceed in quantity what is sufficient for this purpose. The powers of production also, which in the advanced inflammatory process are arrested, or have their results degenerating as rapidly as they are formed, are actively employed during the healing process in producing the new cell- structures which undergo plastic results; so that pus is either not formed at all, or only produced in such measure from the superficial layers of pro- liferating cells as is necessary for the protection of those lying beneath. The healing process may be studied under all its most important modifications, in the closing of any simple wound which occurs in a sound constitution, whether accompanied by loss of substance or not.