284 ABSCESS OF BONE. By such comparatively simple procedure, both life and limb may be saved; an important fact ; for which our profession stands indebted to Sir Benjamin Brodie. It should not be forgotten, however, that a sub-acute inflammatory process in hone, attended with no further effect than a change of struc- ture, may readily be mistaken for internal abscess ; and therefore that no operation should be resorted to until the treatment suited to mere struc- tural change has had a fair trial and failed. Chronic Internal Abscess.—This may result from the acute; the in- flammatory process subsiding, no primary osseous barrier of hmitation existing, and pus continuing to be formed not more rapidly than the surrounding parts can accommodate themselves to by slow expansion. Or the inflammatory process is chronic throughout. The laminated tex- ture is gradually distended; and the cancellous is either condensed, assisting to form the thickened parietes of the ca'^rity, or is removed by absorption. Sometimes the death of small portions of the interior of the bone has been the result of the inflammatory process ; and these become detached, and mingle with the fluid contents. The cavity steadily enlarges. Its contents are purulent, but usually thin ; commingled with the ulcerative debris, and, as just observed, often containing small se- questra. A distinct pyogenic membrane lines the interior; and the walls consist of the expanded laminae of the bone, strengthened from time to time by recent osseous formation on the exterior. On making a section of bone so affected, its laminated portion is sometimes found, notwithstanding much expansion, considerably thicker and more dense than in the normal state. At one point, however, attenuation of the parietes by absorption usually does take place, though veiy slowly : and there ultimately discharge may be effected. The symptoms, lilce the morbid process, are of a chronic natm-e throughout. A dull indolent swelling forms gradually ; with more or less affection of the superimposed soft parts, and irritation of the system. The affection is hable to be mistaken for a tumour forming in the interior of the bone, or for chronic node. Treatment consists in perforation of the parietes, at the prominent and thinnest part. A bistoury may be sufficient for this alone ; or the Fig. 110. Internal abscess alTectiug the til)ia, iK'nr its centre. Cured by the tro- 1 thine. Patient a policeman, a;t. 22. Case narrated in Listou's " Elements," p. 11' •