AFFECTIONS OF THE VULVA. 1258 Sometimes tlie disease affects children along with a low form of fever • and the inflammatory process may go on to sloughing. The vulva is also sometimes, in adults, the seat of extensive and unhealthy ulceration, and of Noma, Avith accompanying fever of a low typhoid character. Abscess of the Vulva May he the result of mechanical violence, or the secondary consequence of sanguineous extravasation into the subcutaneous or submucous areolar tissue. It may follow erysipelas, or acute inflammatory affection of the vulvo-vaginal glands of Bartholin—arising without assignable cause. Occasionally there is a succession of such abscesses in the vulva; appa- rently maintained by inflammatory irritation of the vagina, or of the deeper seated organs. It is a common affection of prostitutes ; and in them frequently ends by forming vulvo-vaginal fistulse, which may also communicate with the rectum immediately witliin the sphincter. When the disease is a consequence of sanguineous extravasation, it also some- times ends in fistula ; the purulent formation extending, like the san- guineous, from the vulva upwards along the walls of the vagina—or in other directions, as towards the anus. The origin and progress of abscess in tliis situation does not mate- rially differ in any respect from its history as originating elsewhere. Generally, the accompanying pain is severe ; but if the abscess has fol- lowed extravasation of blood, the pain and constitutional symptoms may be comparatively slight. The affection is distinguished from thrombus by the presence of more or less fever, by the acuteness of the pain and tenderness, by gradual progress of the swelling, by the colour of the integument over it, and by the ovoid or pyriform shape of the swelling, its apex pro- jecting towards the fourchette; from varicose veins of the vulva, by its sensibility on pressure, by its tension, and by not disappearing when the patient lies down; from hernia, by the abscence of impulse on coughing, its history, progress, etc. There is no special point to be attended to in the treatment. The abscess should be opened early; and, in preference, from the skin, not from the mucous membrane. Every attention must be paid to the encouragement of free external escape of matter, in order to avert the danger of the formation of fistula. If, in spite of all care, a fistula vaginae does form, and proves tedious, it must be dealt with by free incision including the internal opening. Thrombus of the Vulva May be in one labium, or in both. It is most frequently caused by the efforts of parturition; but may also follow external violence, such as a blow or a kick upon the part, efforts at defrocation, etc. Persons affected with varicocele of the labia are predisposed to the affection. The thrombus may attain to very large size; so as, in the case of parturition, to prove an obstruction. Sometimes the large amount of blood extrava- sated, the progi'ess of the bleeding, and the compression of the urethra interfering with micturition, may demand immediate relief. In such