710 IKIDECTOMY. or a softened and shrunken globe, proved how vain all these curative efforts had proved. Griife's operation of iridectomy, proposed for the relief of the intra- ocular pressure to which he attributed all tliese results, consisted in making an opening into the aqueous cliamber, througli the cornea wlier<- it merges into the sclerotic, of such size that as the knife is withdrawn the iris prolapses along with the escape of the aqueous humour. An aperture of from one-sixth to a quarter of an inch in length will amply suffice for this. The prolapsed iris having been picked up by means ol forceps, from a quarter to even a third of it is drawn out, and torn away from its ciliary attachment, after marginal division by curved scissoi-.- In operating, it is usually best to put the patient under the influenf. of chloroform, and to have the lids kept open by means of the spring speculum. The incision may either be made on the outer margin ol the cornea, when a linear cataract knife will be found most convenient: or a limited upper section may be made, either with an extraction knift or with a triangular knife made for the purpose—bent at an angle o 120° to the shank, so as to elude the supra-orbital prominence. Tli' upper lid in the latter operation acts as a covering for the large pupillar-, aperture, formed after the removal of so considerable a portion of th( iris. That the operation has been attended with a success infinite)^ greater than that of the medicinal treatment before alluded to, and mon permanent than what follows mere punctures of the cornea by which thi aqueous humour is evacuated, is a fact beyond dispute. But how does so, or why it should do so, is as yet involved in the deepest myster}- Grafe attributes the good effects to the permanent relief which it afford to the intraocular pressure ; throwing, as he supposes it does, the aqueou and vitreous chambers into one, so as to admit of the fluids effused ij the deeper part of the eye being removed by the absorbent powers o the front portion. Such an explanation, however, seems very unsatisff tory. We suspect that the real source of the benefit obtained by operation, will be found to be exactly in proportion to the extent of ciliary attachment of the iris which is removed; thus affording a escape for all fluids which would otherwise have collected between t retina and choroid, or between the latter tunic and the sclerotic. Tl it has some connection with the ciliary bodies, muscle, or ligament, obvious, from the fact that by means of Mr. Hancock's operation fo glaucoma—in which a common extraction knife is made to divid obliquely for about an eighth of an inch the corneal margin of sclerotic, without, however, infringing upon the corneal structur a limited communication is formed between the posterior aqueo chamber and the subretinal and subchoroidal parts, Mr. Hancoci attributes the good results which he has found to attend upon th operation, to relief of the undue tension of the ciliary muscle, whic exists, according to him, in the early stages of this aflecticm, and t removal of the constriction which the atrophied condition of the muscle in the latter stages of the disease is supposed to produce, this as it may, the operation of iridectomy has, from inexperioncc, < ignorance, or a blind itching to practice a novelty in ophthalm surgery, been employed in cases of a very different nature from Glai