&20 PEACTURE OF THE HUMEKUS. ment is carried upwards and backwards along with the bones of the fore- arm. The limb, as measured from the acromion to the outer condyle, is shortened; and at the elbow there is much bulging posteriorly, with projection of the extremity of the upper fragment forwards above the fold of flexion of the joint. On gently extending the forearm with one hand, while the lower end of the humerus is supported by the other, the deformity is removed ; but it is instantly reproduced on leaving the limb to itself; and by tliis test the accident is sufficiently dLstinguished from dislocation. Crepitus and mobility may be plainly perceived when the elbow and lower part of the humerus is supported in the gi-asp of the left hand, and the elbow is flexed and extended. When the line of fracture follows an opposite direction, passing obliquely upwards from behind forwards, the displacement is reversed ; the lower end of the upper fragment projecting behind, while the prominence in front is produced by the upper end of the lower fragment. Eeduction having been effected, rectangular splints are applied on the inside and outside of the limb, and are i-etained by bandaging; the rectangular position of the forearm being obviously advisable, in order to relax the biceps and brachialis anticus, as well as to prevent the straight position of the hmb, which would at once, through the weight of the forearm hanging perpendicularly from the shortened continuity of the humerus, place the lower end of the bone in an angular relation to the upper. The splints—made of pasteboard, leather, or gutta-percha—should extend from the shoulder to the wrist. Diastasis may occur in young children ; the epiphysis being detached, with or without rotation. Eeduction having been effected, by extension and coaptation, retention will be maintained in the bent position by a figure of 8 bandage, securing a pad of lint placed in front of the elbow, and applied so as to support and include the one-half of both arm and forearm. Fracture above the Condyles complicated by Fracture into the Elbow- Joint.—This fracture is a mere variety of the one just described, and is attended by virtually the same symptoms—mobility between the con- dyles, increased breadth of the lower part of the humerus, with crepitus developed when the condyles are moved against each other in diiferent directions. The prognosis should always be more serious, on account of the risk of anchylosis of the articulation resulting from the inflamma- tory process affecting the joint. In treating this form of fracture, there- fore, the risk of inflammatory accession and of anchylosis shoidd be kept in view; sufficient rest being maintained till union is so far completed that passive motion may be commenced without occasioning displacement. For retention, a figure of 8 bandage around the elbow, supporting a pad of lint applied over the front of the articulation, is all that is reqiureA Should such a fracture be compound, or complicated with a wound com- municating with its track, excision of the articulating extremity of the humerus should be resorted to, and the arm treated as after resection of the elbow-joint. Fracture through the Condyles of the Humenis. 1. Of the Internal Condyle or Trochlea.—This rarely occurs after adolescence, and is produced by falls or blows on the elbow, Ihe line