1143 HERPES AND ABRASIONS. nesia, may be introduced by means of a speculum so as to keep the tender and congested surfaces of the mucous membrane separate. When the source of the irritation seems localised in one part, an occasional application of the nitrate of silver pencilled over the surface will prove useful. When the discharge escapes from the uterus, nitrate of silver may be applied to its interior by means of the porte-caustique ; or a sponge-tent may be employed to dilate the cavity, and thus afford a free escape for matter collecting within. Ultimately, a tonic system of general treatment may be expedient. Yoimg girls are liable to suffer from a spurious gonorrhoea, caused by some intestinal, rectal, vesical, or general irritation; and consisting of an excited and perhaps excoriated state of the vulva and orifice of the vagina, with discharge. It yields readily to removal of the cause, fol- lowed by the simplest local treatment. A knowledge of its nature and origin is obviously of much importance, in a medico-legal point of view. The true gonorrhoea, unless when acute, is undistinguishable from Leucorrhoea, except by its history and accompaniments. It is well to recollect, however, that, except in gonorrhoea, vesical and urethral dis- order, with glandular irritation in the groins, is comparatively uncommon. Sores. Herpetic eruptions, followed by sores of the penis, often occur on the integument of the body of the organ; sometimes they form on the preputial lining, behind the glans. In the former site, the vesicles usually desiccate, leaving a red surface occupied by black or brown spots, which look as if burned by a red-hot iron ; in the latter the vesicles give way, leaving a number of irritable sores of a round form and yellowish surface, aggregated together upon an inflamed base ; sometimes, however, by coalescence the ulcers form one large, irregular, yellowish, irritable patcL This affection may be caused by the contact of acrid female secretions—not virulent; or their accession may be altogether uncon- nected with sexual intercourse. It is discriminated by the character of the vesicles; their plurality, circinate form, speedy formation—the intense burning pain by which they are preceded, accompanied, and some- times even followed—the tendency in the patient to similar formations elsewhere, either previously or coincidently—the presence of more or less gastro-hepatic derangement—and the rapid healing of the sores in connexion with simple soothing means. Eest, cooling medicine, and the application either of water-dressing or of oxide of zinc ointment, con- stitute the necessary treatment. Having once occurred, it is liable to return from time to time. Eczema may appear upon the glans or inner aspect of the prepuce, presenting a slightly tumid surface, with minute punctuate vesicles, which usually give way within the first two or three days, and leave an oozy, tender, excoriated, or fissured condition. Simple soothing dress- ing, or an alkaline lotion, usually suffices ; but the use of arsenic inter- nally may sometimes be required to produce a permanent cure. Simple Abrasion or Excoriation is known by its immediate appearance, by absence of the preliminary inflammatory process and pustular forma-