363 ITS MORBID ANATOMY. The symptoms which characterize the commoncoment of this disease are more or less severe aching or gnawing pain, especially severe at night and in the morning, aggravated by motion—more especially after sitting or lying still for a time, and accompanied with tenderness on pressui-e, and more or less stiffness. Effusion also takes place into the joints, usually in very moderate quantity; sometimes, however, amounting to hi/drops aHimli. As the disease advances, the stiffness may, in some joints, amount to rigidity. Sometimes the relaxed ligamentous textures, and other changes in the joint, admit of subluxation, or even of complete dis- 2)lacement. JSTodosities form round the articulation; but true bony anchylosis never takes place, and suppuration as a result is unknown. Sometimes the bursse in the neighbourhood become distended with fluid. The non-traumatic form is perhaps most frequent in women, and in them usually affects the joints of the hands. In men, again, it occurs more frequently in the hip-joints than elsewhere; but any, and every articulation may be affected, singly or in combination, in either sex. In examining a joint such as the hip, affected with this disease, the capsule of the articulation will be found always to have undergone con- siderable, sometimes very great thickening—in one case, mentioned by Dr. Adams to the extent of half an inch. Sometimes bony deposit in plates or nodules occurs in its textures. The synovial membrane is at the same time thickened and more vascular; especially its " tufts," plicse vasculosce, synovial fringes, or haversian glands, as these structures have been variously denominated. If the affection is in its early stage, more or less fluid will be found within the cavity ; and on opening the joint, the Hgamentous and cartilaginous textures will be found greatly changed : for example, the round ligament of the hip gone; the tendon of the biceps in the shoulder-joint disappeared, or so altered as not to be recognizable ; the cartilages of incrustation changed in structufe or altogether removed; the cartilaginous rim of the acetabulum ossified; the interarticular carti- lages of the knee, jaw^ and sterno-clavicular joints, either gone or partially ossified, and continuous with the articulating surfaces. In the ginglymoid joints, the relaxation of the ligamentous textures, and the changes in the form of the articulating surfaces of the bones, sometimes admit of dislo- cation ; and in the shoulder-joint either complete or partial displacement of the head of the humerus is very common. In some cases one or several loose or attached cartilaginous, or even osseous bodies, exist within the joints, developed obviously within the fimbriae, or excrescences into which the vascular fringes have gradually been transformed. These, when of considerable size and chiefly osseous, have been called aditamentary bones, and are not due to fracture of some portion of the articulating surface as was originally suggested by Ambrose Pare. The osseous tex- tures forming the articulating surfaces are greatly changed. The place of the cartilage is occupied partly by dense fibro-cartiltiginous tissue, and porcellanous change. JMarginal deposits of bone, continuous as a ridge, or in tiers, and stalactitic processes, surround the articulating surfaces and neck of the bone. The articulating surfaces appear flattened out, the articulating cavities flattened and rendered shallow, while the texture of the bune in the neighbourhood is hardened and condensed. Besides, in the case of such a bone as the femur, its neck becomes shortened ; the