331 OSTEOCEPllALUMiV. panding the bono from within ; sometimes the first formation is perios- teal ; and sometimes the disease originates in the soft textures exterior to bone, and involves the latter secondarily. In the latter class of cases, the continuity of the shaft may be maintained throughout the wliole pro- gress of the disease, the laminated texture, however, disappearing, and in its place plates and spicula of delicate spongy bone radiating through- out the substance of tlie mass, and constituting an osseous skeleton of support to the cancerous formation. By some this is considered as a form of osteoid cancer. Wlien the tumour forms in the shaft of a long bone, fracture is still more Hkely to occur than in osteosarcoma; greatly aggravating the unto- ward progress of the disease. Treatment is by early and thorough removal. Amputation of the limb is usually preferable to extirjDation of the part; and it is a safe general rule, that, when practicable, the bone in Avhich the tumour has been produced shoidd not be sawn through at any part, but disarticulated. If an opportunity for early interference be not afforded, the knife should be withheld, and palliatives alone employed. Diagnosis.—Practically, it is of the utmost importance that we should be able to distinguish between osteosarcoma and osteocephaloma. Both are of frequent occurrence ; and each requires distinct rules of treatment. The most common sites of each are the maxillary bones, lower and upper; and next, the long bones of the extremities, especially the heads of the tibia and fibula, and the corresponding end of the femur. But the flat bones, as the scapula, cranium, and pelvis, are by no means exempt. The prominent points of difference are the following j sufficiently distinct to protect the experienced and careful, 1. Osteosarcoma is seldom found prior to adult age; Osteocepha- loma may occur at any period, and is perhaps more common in the adolescent than in the adult. 2. Osteosarcoma is usually attributable, in its origin, to external injury, Osteocephaloma is more frequently of spontaneous growtL 3. Osteosarcoma is slow and gradual, and more or less uniform in its growth, Osteocephaloma is much more rapid, and tends to enlarge unequally ; growing chiefly at those points where there is least mechanical resistance. 4. Osteosarcoma, usually, is almost, and sometimes altogether painless; unless when some nervous trunk or plexus is compressed. Osteocephaloma, from the first, is attended with severe lancinating pain. 5. Osteosarcoma is firm, and yields but little to the touch ; even rude pressure is scarcely painful; an obscure crepitus ■/s often felt. Osteocephaloma is soft and elastic, from an early period ; the shell of bone, and all other remains of the original texture, soon becoming merged in the medullary formation. It is elastic, and affords no crepitus—when an original tumour; and pain is aggravated by even slight compression. 6. Osteosarcoma entails but little disorder of the general health. Osteocephah)ma is attended with marked cachexy, even from the beginning, 7. A casual abrasion of the skin, or mucous mem- brane, investing an osteosarcoma, shews a simple character ; and may be brought to heal, under ordinary treatment, A similar breach in the surface of an osteocephaloma docs not heal, but widens more and more.