TEEATMENT OF CLUB-FOOT. 1337 "being analogous to pronation of the hand. The front of the foot ia raised fi'om the ground; and the jiatient rests on the inside of the instep, and on the inner anlde. The tendons of the peronei muscles are chiefly to blame. This form of club-foot is simulated by " flat-foot," due to yield- ing and flattening of the tarso-metatarsal arch, especially on the inner side of the foot. IV. Talipes Calcaneus.—The muscles of the calf are paralysed; those in front of the leg are consequently contracted; the foot is extremely flexed; and, in progression, the heel alone touches the ground. One foot, or both, may be afiected by Talipes. In the former case, the afiected limb is found thinner and more flabby than the other; and, sometimes, by arrest of development, it is shortened as well as weak. The mode of progression is painful and imperfect. And, not unfrequently, contraction takes place at the knee, to a greater or less extent. Spurious Talipes is said to occur, when displacement of the foot is caused by muscular change or integumental contraction, following on burns, extensive suppurations, ulcers, etc. Treatment of Talipes.—In the minor cases, which occur in children, mechanical means—early employed, skilfully adapted, and duly persevered with—are, of themselves, suflicient to efi'ect a normal relation of parts. Many such cases occur ; and it is quite unnecessary to subject the little patients to the pain of tenotomy. Narrow tin splints, covered with lint or chamois leather, are best for this purpose; and when the condition is that of equino-varus, as is usually the case, the lateral displacement should first be rectified before the heel is brought down. The splints must be changed, at least once in twenty-four hours, to admit of the limbs being washed, to prevent the surface of the skin from becoming excoriated by the bandages and lint being soiled with the urinary secretion, and to avoid the occurrence of ulceration from pressure over the external malleolus. As the foot becomes unbent, and restored more and more nearly to a straight line with the spine of the tibia, the tin splint is curved outwards, so as to overcome to the utmost all tendency to inversion. When the deformity obviously depends on a paralytic condition of certain muscles—as is more likely to be the case in the acquired than in the congenital examples—attempts may be made to obviate this condition, by remedies directed both to the system and to the part. Attending to the nervous centres, to the chylopoietic viscera, and to the general func- tions—we may find the symptoms yield, as in the analogous affection of strabismus. And the local means most likely to be of service are— blistering, galvanism, exercise, friction, the endermic use of strychnine, and passive motion. Tenotomy is had recourse to, when structural shortening of muscle has occurred, when no paralysis is present, and when the obstacles to replacement cannot otherwise be overcome. A large number of cases are so circumstanced. The operations, however, are but part of the remedial means ; and will certainly fail, unless suitable apparatus be afterwards employed, well and sedulously. Instead of waiting for reunion of the tendons, and then extending their new bond of union, painfully and *