608 DIAGNOSIS. change, even although the immediate effects of compression had seemed to have been recovered from. The indications of treatment adapted to compression are sufficiently simple. To remove, if possible, the compressing cause. To watch the : subsequent favourable progress of the organ to resumption of its normal state and function. To interfere, if need be, to avert the inflammatory • process. And to oppose the untoward advance of this, when unfortun- ately it has become established. When symptoms of simple compression i persist, without any opportunity being afforded of removing the cause of f pressure, to maintain by suitable means the action of the heart and I lungs ; so as, if possible, to afford time for the brain, by accommodating . itself to its altered circumstances, slowly and imperfectly to resume its functions. Between pure examples of Concussion and Compression of the brain there is no difficulty in drawing a sufficiently broad distinction ; in prac- tice, as well as in theory. The one, a case of syncope; the other, of coma. In concussion—the symptoms immediate; insensibility usually incomplete ; the organs of special sense capable of being roused ; the muscles contractile, and the limbs, under strong stimulu.s, undergoing movement; the breathing soft and gentle; the pupils not uniformly dilated, though insensible to light; the pulse rapid, small, indistinct; perhaps for a time imperceptible ; vomiting ; no involuntary evacuations; the skin cold, pale, and shrunk. In compression—the symptoms no necessarily immediate; insensibility complete; the organs of speci sense incapable of being roused; the muscles relaxed, paralyzed; th limbs motionless, until recession of the state of compression, and advan of the inflammatory process ; breathing laboured, slow, and snoring ; th pupils dilated and insensible; the pulse slow, distinct, perhaps fu sometimes intermittent ; no (or seldom) vomiting; fseces passed invo- luntarily ; retention or dribbling of urine ; the skin warm, and ofte bedewed by perspiration. But it is very plain that comparatively seldom -will pure exainples o, either state be presented to the sui'geon. The blow or fall which pr" duces severe concussion is very frequently accompanied by laceration o the substance of the brain, or rupture of a vessel in the membrane-- wlience blood will escape, sooner or later, inducing a certain amoun of compression. And, on the other hand, the injury which causes com pression, whether by fracture or extravasation, must, at the same tim and primarily, have caused more or less concussion. In consequenc the two states, and their corresponding symptoms, are often—nay, usuall; —more or less commingled. According to the preponderance of either, class of symptoms, the case receives its title; and, sometimes, it is no: easy to say to what side the j)reponderance is inclined. There is one class of cases, however, sufficiently distinct. The ord nary symptoms of concussion follow an injury of tlie head, and th patient rallies from them. Consciousness is completely restored, and i retained for some time. But without the operation of any new externa cause, insensibility returns ; unconsciousness is more complete than he