EFFECTS OF LOSS OF BLOOD. 233 tained. In health, as formerly stated, the longer the blood flows the more coagulahle it becomes ; in this disease this relation is entu-ely revei'sed. Another rule should not be forgotten ; namely, the propriety of not capriciously and rapidly shifting from one remedy to another, in haste and confusion; but coolly persevering in one well-selected plan, until fair time has been afforded for this developing its full effect. 2. The second indication is directed to the state of the part. Our trust is in styptics and pressure ; of the former, two are specially avail- able—strong tincture of matico, and the solution of the perchloride of iron. For applying pressure many ingenious contrivances have been employed, suited to various localities whence such hemorrhage is likely to come—the majority directed to the case after tooth-extraction. But we believe that all of these are very inferior to " animal pressure," ap- phed by the finger and thumb of the surgeon—followed up by those of intelligent assistants, in suitable relays—so as to maintain a continuance of such compression as is exact and uniform, yet moderate. Probably the best medium of compression is a dossil of lint or charpie, steeped in the styptic; and renewed whenever it becomes soaked with the discharge. A great amount of pressure must be carefully avoided; for both part and system are intolerant of this. Ecchymosis, sloughing, and ulceration, with much constitutional disturbance of a low and irritable type, will certainly follow j and in a short time blood will burst forth, from a wider surface, and with a more willing flow than before. The actual cautery, enjoying a general reputation of being at once the most severe and most powerful of local hemostatics, has naturally been employed in desperate cases; but invariably with an evil issue; as can, indeed, be readily understood. The slough or eschar which is formed may arrest the flow for a time, while it is yet adherent; but the process of detachment is, in such cases, both an early and a rapid one; and the ulceration, opening up parts devoid of plastic power, certainly reinduces the hemorrhage—and that too in an aggravated form. In the hemorrhagic diathesis, the actual cautery should never be employed. There is an intolerance of the remedy itself; and besides, the parts are by its use rendered incapable of bearing the subsequent application of pressure. Dehgation of the principal arterial trunk cannot but fail in such cases. The oozing is from capillaries; and their circulation, it is well known, will not be sufiiciently affected by any such procedure. Treatment having failed to arrest, and the condition of the patient having become almost hopeless, one effort more may stiU be made for liis life ; by transfusion. The Effects of Loss of Blood. Sudden Death from Profuse Hemorrhage.~Exa.m-plea of this accident are mteresting to the surgical pathologist, merely in a scientific point of view. A man, in committmg suicide, cuts deeply into the neck; wound- ing the large vessels ; and almost immediately falls down a corpse. The murderous instrument may be found firmly grasped in the clenched