070 AFFECTIONS OF THE LACHRYMAL GLAND. slight rotatory motion. TJie passage of tlic instrument is rendered more ■■ easy, if its extremity is slightly twisted so as to make it spiral. ThasQ. probes, or bougies as they may be called, are of different thicknesses, and six different sizes are usually sup])lied in a set. Two sizes, however, ai( all that is essential in addition to the grooved steel probe, in most cases. The passing of the instrument is usually attended with the escape of a few drops of blood from the nostril, which is unimportant, and ceasL> to be observed when dilatation has become permanently established Obliteration and Absence of the Nasal Duct. 1. The nasal duct may be obliterated by change of structure in thei membrane. Eestoration by perforation may be attempted. 2. It raayJ be shut up entirely by change of structure in the tone. Then restoratiou ] in the original site is hopeless ; and if anything remedial is undertaken,?! it can only be by perforating the os unguis, and rendering the mmaturali aperture permanent. A case is related by M. Berard, of congenital absence of tlie nasal; duct; from wliich there had resulted a congenital fistula, which continued open and discharging at the age of twenty-one. An artificial outlet wai^ formed for the secretion, by perforation of the os unguis.* Dacryolitlies. Concretions are sometimes found in the lachrymal passages; main]; lodged in the sac ; and consisting chiefly of carbonate of lime, cementec together by mucous and albuminous matter. The foreign substance pro ^ duces swelling and lachrymation, and may ultimately cause fistula. presence is easily detected by manipulation, and by the introduction of probe through one of the puncta. The remedy is simple; incision Oj the canaliculus and sac, and removal of the mass. Sometimes they ha^v been met with attaining a very large size, occupiying the lachrymal sa^ and duct, producing absorption of the bone and ulceration of the soi parts, attended by a dense diffuse swelling of the cheek, and simulat malignant disease. Affections of the Lachrymal Gland. Dacryadenitis.—The lachrymal gland may be the seat of an i: matory process, chronic or acute; but either form of attack is rare painful swelling forms in the region of the organ ; the eyeball is dif placed, and inconvenienced in function and movements. The eyehds ai cedematous ; and the conjunctiva is apt to sympathise and take part \\ the morbid process. In the acute form, the system suffers severely; tl: pain grows intense and shoots through the head; and suppuration ma take place. When the matter is discharged spontaneously through tl eyelid a fistulous aperture sometimes remains. The treatment is according to general antiphlogistic principles. Who matter forms, an early and free opening is to be made from the inside the lid if possible. * British and Foreign Eeview, No. 21, p. 511.