922 FRACTUEE OF THE CORONOID PROCESS. fracture is usually transverse ; in the last oljliquo, extending from before backwards and downwards. When surrounding textures retain their integrity, the fragment undergoes no displacement, and the existence of crepitus and mobility, on lateral movement being imposed on the injured parts, alone indicate the existence of a fracture. Usually, how- ever, the ligamentous and fibrous covering of the process is torn; and consequently, the olecranon, detached from the shaft of the ulna, ig displaced upwards by the action of the triceps ; leaving, when the fore- arm is flexed, a vacant sjiace where a prominence should have been, and placing the prominence an inch or more above its ordinary site. Volun- tary extension is impracticable ; flexion aggravates the signs of the injury. On extending the limb, the displacement is in a great measure removed; the two fragments are brought sufficiently near for satisfactory Kgamentous tuiion ; and in treatment, therefore, it is enough to maintaiu the apposi- tion of the fractured bone by a figure of 8 bandage, and to secm-e an almost completely extended position by the loose application of a straight wire splint on the palmar aspect of the elbow-joint. Compound fracture of the olecranon following direct injury, as in gun-shot wounds, is invariably to be regarded as a serious accident, inas- much as intense inflammatory afi"ection of the joint is very likely to supervene. And this tendency to serious evil we should never lose sight of, in treatment; endeavouring to prevent traumatic arthritis, if possible; and when it has occurred, doing our utmost to avert disorganization. Not imfrequently, with the best care, the joint suppurates. Should tliis occur, excision of the joint should at once be had recourse to ; the inflammatory fever, if present, being checked by the incisions requisite for the opera- tion, as well as by the relief to irritation and tension effected by the removal of the articulating ends of the bone. We have, however, in one such case—instead of practising excision—removed numerous frag- ments of the shattered olecranon, and a portion of the bullet by which the injury was inflicted, with the result of the suppuration gradually subsiding, and the parts being restored to a useful condition with a very considerable degree of freedom of motion. Fracture of the olecranon may be complicated with wound of the bursa over the process; and the diffuse suppm^ation which ensues, attended with a dense brawny sweUing of the arm and forearm, may closely simulate the implication of the cavity of the joint. Here, free dilatation of the aperture communicating with the bursa, will usually check further inflammatory progress, and serve to indicate the less serious nature of the case. 2. Of the Coronoid process.—Tliis accident, if it ever occurs, must be excessively rare, No doubt cases have been reported as of this nature, by very reliable authorities—examples for the most part of dislocation of both bones of the forearm backwards, difficult of retention after easy reduction, and with a feeling of crepitus on pressure over the coronoid process, Further, also, specimens have been met with in autopsies, or m museums, where the point of the coronoid process has been imited to the shaft of the ubia by fibrous tissue. The first bne of proof is, how- ever, a very precarious one; as fi-acture through the inner condyle oi the humerus would produce the same phenomena; while, in the second, chronic rheumatic arthritis might have been the cause of change. Again,