'ITvAUMATIC ANEUlllSM. from the bottom ; and the woman was discharged with a firm, depressed cicatrix. About a fortnight afterwards, however, she returned with a lai'ge fidse aneurism occupying the whole of the upper part of the arm, and restrained from bursting only by the thin translucent pellicle of tlie cicatrix. Through this the dark interior could be seen. No time was to be lost; and the ordinary direct operation was performed, with a success- ful issue—the ulnar artery being found open, about an inch below where the hgature had been applied in the first instance. The woman, it seems, had resumed laborious occupation immediately after dismissal; and very speedily a throbbing was felt in the arm, such as is usually thought symptomatic of suppuration. She believed that matter had formed, and that it would follow the ordinary course of an abscess ; but became alarmed by afterwards observing a general pulsation of the arm, on account of which she once more sought hospital relief. Such a history seems to oint to suppuration, and subsequent arterial communication with the abscess, as the sequence towards this aneurismal development. The most common example of traumatic aneurism is that which follows accidental wound in venesection, at the bend of the arm. The mistake is usually at once discovered, and means taken to avert the con- ■. sequences; by energetic and direct pressure on the part. Blood in consequence escapes but slowly from the wound in the artery. By the pressure, it is prevented from being discharged externally. It slowly accumulates, therefore, in the areolar tissue, exterior to the artery, and beneath the fascia of the fore-arm. This tissue becomes condensed into the form of a cyst; which, as in idiopathic aneurism, receives corroborating addition both by deposit from the blood, and by amal- gamation of other tissues on its outer stttface. The internal additions incorporated with the original cyst, and fully organized, acquire from pressure a compact structure, and constitute a lining membrane, smooth, and serous-looking; often seeming, as in idiopathic aneurism, to be con- tinuous with the internal coat of the artery. The coagulum contained within the cyst is always, however, loose and dark-coloured; and such aneurism never contains the dense, concentric, laminated, fibrinous co- agula, which are so frequently met with in the idiopathic form of the aneurismal sac. The cyst of the traumatic aneurism may ultimately give way, and the aneurism become diffuse ; but this is by no means probable, seeing that the cyst is powerfully strengthened by the investing fascia of the fore-arm. When remedial pressure is either absent or imperfect, the bloody swelling may be large and diffuse from the first. The coagulum is seldom dense throughout, in either the diffuse or the circumscribed variety; but often has a central space or canal, continuous with the arterial aper- ture. By some it is supposed that the aneurismal formation is different from tha,t just described. That the escape of blood, with formation of an ex- tenor cyst, is not immediate; but that the aperture in the vessel is first filled up by a membranous formation ; and that this, yielding before the blood's^ impulse from within, gradually dilates and forms the aneurismal sac. Such a mode of formation must be very rare. In whatever way formed, the traumatic aneurism has one very impor-