372 PATHOLOGY OF LOOSE BODIES IN JOINTS. a sudden movement, the peduncle may be severed; and tlie extraneous substance is thrown loose into the joint. 2. More probably, by internal formation, in the substance of the synovial membrane. A change takes place in the nutrition of the plicae vasculosas, as in the " fimbriated" condition formerly described ; the formation not occurring in the whole range of the plicce vasculosce, but in individual fimbriae. And it is not difficult to imagine how one such formation, at first attached, may become separate, and float loose within the cavity. 3. By limited hypertrophy of the original cartilage. Joints—especially those of the elbow and knee—are not unfrequently found in museums, with irregular enlargement of their cartilage, and also of the subjacent bone, at the outer rim of the cartilaginous surface. Part of these excrescences may point towards the joint, shewing more or less of the pedunculated form; and portions may be found within the joint, some quite loose, and others yet adherent. Such preparations sufficiently indicate the abnormal pro- cess which may prove one of the modes of origin to loose articular bodies. It should also be observed, however, that such enlargement is not mere hypertrophy of the original cartilage. The texture is changed, becoming more dense and fibrous; and it is a portion of this altered tissue which is projected and detached. A strong argument against fracture of either normal or altered cartilage being the source of such bodies, is that they present an uniform, oval, smooth, unbroken surface : that they occur frequently where no injury of the joint has occurred and that they are met with in the same articulation, at times, both in the attached and non-attached form, obviously both due to the saxm source—viz., the synovial fimbriae. However occasioned, the symptoms are, in general, sufficiently dis- tinct. At times there is no uneasiness ; the foreign body remaining in: part of the joint removed from the play of the bones. Suddenly, ho'n-- ever, it may become dislodged from this retreat; and, coming between the ends of the bones, on an instant the most excruciating pain is endured; the limb is rendered rigid, and motion arrested, as if by a spell; and the distressing symptoms are not relieved, until, by gentl' flexion and manipulation, the intruding substance has been again places in an unofiending position. Such occurrences, by frequent repetition, are themselves a source of much inconvenience and discomfort; am!, besides, they are not unlikely to prove the means of lighting up ari inflammatory process, whereby the most serious consequences may ensue Accordingly, in such cases more or less dropsical effusion will be foiunl to coexist with the loose body in the joint,—sometimes indeed so consi- derable as, during its existence, to conceal the presence of the cartilaginous nodule. It becomes an object of some importance, therefore, either to palHate the evils ; or, by removal of their cause, to dispel them altogether. Treatment.—When inconvenience is not much complained of—only occasional, then not very severe, and remedied Avith tolerable facility treatment should be but palhative. For, under such circumstances, operation is scarcely warranted; and pxmcture of such an important articulation as the knee, the most common site of these bodies, is never wholly free from risk, however skilfully and carefully conducted. Furthermore, experience has fully proved that any operation, needlessl^