TREATMENT OF MOIITIFICATION. 148 form; wiiliout regard to the want of power, whicli did not fail to increase under the neglect. The patient sank, and died. Now, a middle place is wisely selected. We neither stimulate nnr reduce the system ; local disease is moderated, wliile botli local and general power is enhanced and maintained ; and the result is more successful. Local Applications in Mortification. Local as well as general antiseptics were at one time believed in : of an alcoholic, terebenthinate, or otherwise stimulating nature. If em- ployed previously to the accession of gangrene, with the inflammatory process still in progress, they prove injurious; by hurrying on that pro- cess, already excessive. During progress of gangrene towards sphacelus, all stimulation of the part must still be prejudicial; for a like reason. When sphacelus is complete, the stimulants, acting on the surrounding living parts, wMch are imdergoing the sthenic inflammatory process for the purpose of effecting detachment, are likely to aggravate this to an injurious extent. As to their effect on the dead parts themselves, it is either nugatory, or the reverse of beneficial. For, however useful spuits of wine or turpentine may be in preserving parts already detached from the system, similar preservation is certainly not what we desiderate during the process of separation. On the contrary, sloughs cannot be too soon removed from the living tissues. Local stimulants, therefore, improperly named antiseptics, are not only useless, but hurtful Scarifications were also at one time in vogue; usually with the view of enabling the antiseptics to prove more effectual. If they merely impli- cated the dead parts, they were inefficient. If they penetrated these, and reached the living and inflaming stratum beneath, they obviously did harm; as undue stimulants. Under only two circumstances are incisions likely to prove beneficial in gangrene. First; when suppuration has freely occurred beneath a separating eschar ; which, being marginally adlierent, and itself being incapable of the ulcerative process, induces all the evils of tension and pressure on an acutely enlarging abscess. In- cision through the eschar, under such circumstances, will afford much relief; and it is not unfrequently thus required, in cases of burn. Second; when by free incision we may remove the cause of gangrenous disaster, past, present, and impending; as in phlegmonous erysipelas, diffuse suppuration, and infiltration of urine. During the formation and separation of sloughs, light poultice, or warm-water dressing, are the preferable ajiplications; soothing, grateful, and protective to the living parts. Often, the latter may be advanta- geously medicated and modified, by solutions of the chlorurets of lime and soda, by solutions of the permanganate of potash and iron, and by various preparations of charcoal, with the effect of correcting foetor, and apjDarently hastening the healthful cleansing of the parts. As sloughs become detached, by the undermining process of ulcera- tion in the living stratum, they should be taken away. If necessary, scissors are employed; cutting with these only in the dead part however. For, in affording assistance to Nature in her detaching efforts, we should occasion neither one moment's pain, nor the loss of a single drop of blood.