1034 DIAGNOSIS OF FEMORAL HERNIA. reductive pressure is applied. The tumour is usually of .small .size ; often not bigger than a pigeon's egg ; sometimes it is of even huge dimensions ; but its average bulk is much below that of the inguinal varieties. The coverings are—integument; the superficial Hiscia of the thigh ; the cribri- form fascia ; the fliscia propria, consisting of the femoral sheath which is a continuation of the fascia transversalis and fascia iliaca; lastly, the septum cruralo, a covering obtained from the textures which normally occupied and occluded the crural aperture. Very often the two last named coverings are matted together, into one dense fascia; and thus Ave may expect occasionally to meet with but two investing layers ; one the super- ficial fascia; another beneath it, deep, dense, and strong. Not unfrequently the deep layer splits at its lower part; and the fundus of the tumour, emerging through the aperture, may be covered only by the superficial fascia and integument. Diagnosis of Femoral Hernia.—Tumours occurring in this situation are liable to be mistaJcen for hernia. Swoln and tender glands, espe- cially if suddenly enlarged and accompanied by abdominal uneasiness or vomiting, may be mistaken for a strangulated rupture. This is more especially the case when the gland occupies the femoral canal. The elongated form of the swelling, the presence of other glands similarly enlarged, the existence of a cause sufficient to account for the swelhng, and the history of the case, should usually prevent error. When, how- ever, the glandular swelling is large and symptoms of strangulation are well marked, while no protrusion can be detected at any of the other ordinary sites of rupture, an exploratory operation should certainly be undertaken to determine the na- ture of the sweUing, and to decide whether or not a strangulated hernia lies beneath. Psoas or Iliac ab- scess sometimes points to the inner, instead of upon the outer side of the femoral vessels, while a pelvic abscess may even make its Avay to the surface through the criu'al canal. The spontaneous recession of the fluctuating swelling, on the patient assuming the recumbent posture, and its reappearance in spite of steady pressure made over the aper- ture of emergence—along with an inquiry into the presence of other symptoms, and into the history of the case—will usually save the practitioner from mistake. Varix of the Femoral Vein, or of the Saphenu.—The reduction and flaccidity of the swelling under pressure and in recumbency, and its reproduction and tension in spite of firm pressure applied over the femoral outlet when the patient stands erect, will indicate that the affection is not a hernial tumour. Cystic tumours, Fig. 315. Femoral hernia ; of unusually large size.