931 DISLOCATION OF THE SHOULDER. from the side, -with pain and loss of function in the limb. The promi- nent angle of the scapula is easily restored to its normal contact witli the side, by direct manipulation, wliile the arm is much raised and brought backwards, so as to relax the muscle; and by bandaging the scapula down to the side the normal relation may be maintained. On resuming the use of the arm, re-displacement is very apt to occur; a circumstance of the less moment, however, as in time both power and extent of motion are almost completely regained, independently of reduction. A more serious deformity is connected with paralysis of the rhomboid muscles, and occurs in young persons who follow constrained and seden- tary avocations. Displacement of the lower angle not only takes place ; but, besides, the base of the bone projects forwards, on moving the shoulder, to such an extent as almost to admit of the hand being placed between the subscapularis and the ribs. In this case, treatment must be mainly constitutional; but the attention is also directed towards restora- tion of tone in the faulty muscles, by galvanism, friction, and other means. Dislocation of the Humerus at the Shoulder-Joint. • This joint is more frequently dislocated than any other. The acci- dent is usually occasioned by indirect violence, assisted by muscular contraction, as when the patient falls upon the hand or elbow; it may, however, be directly produced by blows upon the shoulder or upper part of the arm, when the elbow is abducted from the side; and also by vio- lent muscular contraction when the elbow is in a like position, the ■atissimus dorsi and pectoralis major being then, along with the weight of Rhe patient's body, the active displacing agents. Dislocation of this joint " ometimes occurs, also, during an epileptic paroxysm. The head of the iiimerus may be displaced from the glenoid surface in three different lirections, viz., forwards, doioniuards, and backwards; the first of these iicluding three degrees of displacement; the second, but one ; the last, "•a The symptoms of these different forms have certain points in com- aon; and certain which are special, and therefore distinctive. To those .\mptoms which are common to all, we would first direct attention, iie most obvious are—\st, The abduction of the elbow from the side, lid impossibility of adducting it or depressing it so as to bring the !bow and arm in contact with the thorax; or so as to admit of the earm being brought across the chest, and the hand laid over the oppo- shoulder (Dugas). 2d, The acromion stands out in sharp outline, l the upper deltoid region is flattened, ^d, The axis of the humerus altered, and the head of the bone can be felt in its abnormal position, liile the glenoid cavity is vacant. 4,th, The circumference round the inpit and over the acromion is longer on the injured than on the und side. Sir A. Cooper's nomenclature of the different forms of dislocation, as ven above, has been, in this country at least, usually assumed as suffi- ntly correct for purposes of description. There are, however, two very ■ lous objections to its continued employment; one, that he describes dislocation downwards as most common ; and the other, that ho ikes it synonymous with the dislocation into the axilla j the real fact