82G INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE MEATUS. pappy or piiltaceous consistence, at other times serous; the masses ol desquamated cuticle then usually collecting within, and sometimes coming away en masse, so as to form a perfect model of the whole external meatus, inclutling the surface of the membrana tympani Along Avith this there is usually no ceruminous discliarge; but, instead, a purulent, foetid, and irritating secretion, comes from the glandular structure of the meatus. As this affection becomes more chronic, especially in children, Assuring of the outer part of the canal, attended with bleeding and more copious suppuration, occurs; and on examining the deeper part of the meatus, the whole surface, including that of the membrana tympani, will be found transformed into a mucous-like vascular surface of a light pink colour. In some instances, weak granulations form, and project so as to hide the deeper part of the canal. In this case, cleanliness constitutes the first and most imjDortant element in the treatment. If there is no perforation of the membrana tympani, astringent lotions may be injected I after the ear has been washed out. Of these, weak solutions of the salts s of silver, zinc, and copper, and of tannic acid, constitute the favourite; forms; wliile the chloruret of soda, or the permanganate of potash, may ; be employed when the foetor is very great. When fissuring of the; external part of the meatus is present, glycerine should be painted over r the tender parts after using the astringent lotion; and the occasional application of nitrate of silver, through the speculum, to the flabby gra- nulations, by means of a probe or hair-pencil, moistened and dipped in the powdered salt, will be found advantageous in some cases. In children who suffer from this affection, constitutional treatment, and tonic regimen, mil usually be required. Condylomata sometimes form at the orifice of the meatus, and require the same attention to cleanliness as just described; sulphate of copper, in substance, or calomel powder, forming the preferable local application. The pe7'iosteum and bone of the meatus may also be the starting-point of an inflammatory process of acutely painful character. The access may be sudden, or gradual and insidious. In the former case, it is accompanied with violent pain, fever, and eve" delirium ; the external ear, and soft parts of the meatus, sympathizing in the process. It may terminate in resolution, but much more frequently, in suppuration, the pus finding its escape close to the membrana tym- pani. When tliis occurs, a probe, curved at the point, and introduced through a speculum, will, on entering the sinus, come in contact Avit" bone either dead or undergoing ulceration In some cases, and generally, the portion of bone is small; sometimes, however, it may include a portion of the osseous canal, and even a part of the mastoid cells. Inl such cases, at the commencement, the treatment must consist in leeching, with fomentation and opiates to relieve pain. The leech should be applied within the margin of the meatus, rather tlian eithei before or behind the ear. When, however, pain on pressure, and diffus swelling, exist Over the base of the mastoid process, an iucision dovnx to the bone will more thoroughly abstract blood and relieve tension. '\^'Tieiii matter forms, an incision must be made to evacuate it. When, however, it points near the internal part of the meatus, the swelling of tlic sofl parts prevents examination of the canal, and the abscess usually buret spontaneously ; at once afibrding great relief to the suffering with which