Fig. 209. 524 TREATMENT OF BUENS AND SCALDS. adjusted ; and then, the proper retentive means being employed, a better healing may be obtained. Or, by means of a subcutaneous wound, a de- pressed and adherent cicatrix may be set free. But perhaps there has been no faulty treatment; everything has been done to prevent displace- ment, and yet it has oc- curred. Or it may be that, to save the system and obtain a cure, the moderating means have been less energetically employed towards the close, than at the first. In short, there has been much loss of substance ; and the part could not have healed at all, with- out very considerable contraction of the old textures. In such cases, the deficiency must be supplied. By incision, the cicatrix is completely divided; the parts are re- placed in their proper position ; and then a por- tion of integument and subcutaneous tissues, of suitable dimensions to occupy the gap, having been detached by incision from the vicinity, or from a part in juxta-position, is adjusted in its new place, and there retained by sutures and plasters ; a connecting slip being left undivided, whereby its vitality is maintained. It adheres, and eflfectually prevents recontraction; the parts retain their normal position, and the deformity is—at least in some degree—removed. The wound, whence the atoning flap was taken, is brought together, and treated for either adhesion or granulation, according to its form and circumstances. Sometimes, as already stated, the new matter of the cicatrix is unduly prominent. In such a case, it may be brought to its j^roper level by pressure carefully apphed; for such structure is very amenable to absorption. Shoidd pressure fail, the dense prominence may be excised, and the wound treated on ordinary principles. 11. Amputate in certain cases. When a hnib is charred throughout its entire thickness, amputation is expedient at once; so soon as the shock of injury has sufficiently passed away, to admit of the operation being safely borne. When a joint has been opened into, or a bone necrosed ; or when from any other cause suppuration is profuse, healing slow, and hectic urgent—the part must sometimes be sacrificed to save life. 12. TJiroughout the whole cure, have great regard to the state of the internal oi^gans, especially the lungs, serous membranes, and iidesti- nal mucous membrane; and chiefly during the inflammatory and sup' purative stages. Let it ever be remembered, that, in the case of extensive bui-ns, the patient never can be reckoned safe until after tlio whole has Fig. 209. Burn of the iieclc. Ucforniity cau.scd by contraclion of tlip cicntrix.