972 PNEUMO-TIIORAX AND EMrilYSEMA. at the same time mitigating iutlammatory disease in all the injured parts, ii; however, the accumulation be obviously great—as evidenced by the amount of dulness and fulness of the side, and by the oppression in breathing—it may become necessary to afford the confined blood means of escape, by making a suitable opening in the parietes. In the compomid form, the wound is left open, and the patient laid upon the injured side, so as to admit of the escape of all the blood which would otherwise collect within the cavity of the chest, and become there putrescent. To make this escape more certain, a counter-opening may even be required ; and is to be preferred to the introduction of syringes to wash out the cavity, or of drainage tubes to draw olf the fluid. The means already mentioned are taken to arrest the bleeding; and should its source, and the symptoms of its existence, be doubtful, it may even be prudent to open the wound to ascertain, so far as is possible, the real state of matters. Fneumo-Thorax and Emphysema. Pneumo-Thorax.—This denotes accumulation of air in the pleural cavity. The case may be either medical or surgical; the latter some- times occurring when the pleural cavity is opened, and the lung unhurt, but more commonly dependent on wound of the limg ; the former caused by perforating ulcer, connected with tubercular abscess, Tlie traumatic form is the result of penetrating wound, oblique and valvular; or of fractured rib, displaced inwards. It has also resulted fi-om mere bruise of the chest; the lung and pleura pulmonaHs having given way by rupture. Its signs are :—absence of the respiratory murmur on the affected side, with a peculiarly clear tympanitic resonance on percussion; the thoracic wall and the ribs are fixed; and, on the opposite side, respiration is puerile, as in the preceding affection. In the medical form, there is usually fluid as well as air in the chest; consequently a splashing of this fluid is heard, on (Hippocratic) succussion; and coughing or speaking produces a ringing sound, termed metallic, or amphoric resonance. Treatment consists in affording ease to the working lung, and avert- ing inflammatory accession. Judicious loss of blood, as already seen, conduces powerfully to both objects. In urgent cases, an outward escape is to be afforded to the air ; and one or two limited incisions into the areolar tissue in the neighbourhood of the broken ribs, when emphysema complicates the pneumo-thorax, will generally reheve both conditions. When, however, there is no emphysema, or when such incision affords no relief, paracentesis, by means of a small exploring trocar and canula, may be required. Care must of course be tiikeu, before resorting to this, that we are certain upon which side the pneumo- thorax really exists—a matter sometimes of difficulty where both sides are injured, and emphysema is extensive. Emphysema sometimes co-exists with Pneumo-thorax. We have already seen that the air may enter the cavity of the thorax through a valvular wound during inspiration, and instead of escaping freely diuing expiration, become diffused into the areolar tissue around and in the neighbourhood of the wound. In other cases, as e. ;/., where a fractured