832 AFFECTIONS OF THE MIDDLE EAR. use of local aiDplications—such as nitrate of silver, and moist cotton wadding—the former applied every three or four days, the latter daily; while, intoi-nally, tonics should at the same time he employed. The treatment of the deficiency resulting from the perforation, should consist in employing measures to check the chronic irritation of the mucous memhrane of the tympanic cavity, by means of nitrate of silver solution applied with a small hair pencil, and blisters externally ; with local use either of cotton wadding according to Mr. Yearsley's method, or of the artificial membrana tympani according to Mr, Toynbee's plan. Mr. Yearsley recommends the daily introducing of a small and thin portion of cotton wadding soaked with water, either by means of a pair of forceps, or by his probe contrived for this very purpose. The cotton is introduced through the speculum, and carried down till its surface touches the membrane, and then it is smoothly applied over the aperture by means of the probe. When it is desirable to permit the patient himself to introduce and remove this wadding, a thread should be tied to the fragment, by which extraction is effected. By the surgeon, forceps may be advantageously substituted for other methods, both in the introduction and removal. Mr. Toynbee's artificial membrana tympani consists of a rounded portion of very thin caoutchouc, secured in the middle with a piece of silver wire. When it is to be employed, its margin should be smoothly cut to correspond to the size of the canal, as gauged by the eye. The membrane, moistened in hot water, is now passed through the speculum, till it comes in contact with the surface of the remains of the natural membrana tympani. The surgeon judges he has reached this point, by the depth to which the wire has been passed, by the sensations of the patient, and by the instantaneous improvement in hearing thus pro- duced. The little instrument should be withdrawn daily, and the ear cleansed; then it is to be reintroduced, either by the surgeon, or by the patient when he has acquired a sufficient acquaintance with its mani- pulation. The effect in restoring hearing power is sometimes quite magical; but in other cases, where disease exists in the cavity of the tympanum and in still deeper parts, although the artificial membrane may be useful as a protective agency, and may thus by degrees improve tlic hearing power, there is little or no appreciable effect at first. This beuo- ficial result, apparently due to its protective agency, gives a clue to explanation of the fact, that in some cases the hearing is so mucli improved after the continued use of the artificial membrane, that the. patient comes to hear as well without as with it. Affections of the Middle Ear. This portion of the organ of hearing, consisting of the cavity of the tympanum and its contents, with its two offshoots, the mastoid cells an the Eustachian tube, is liable to various modifications of structure whichi impair the hearing power in various degrees. These diseases for the most part originate in the inllaniniatory prO:, cess, Avhich may either affect the whole of the middle ear mid its ainiexes, or one or other of these alone.