1269 PllOLAPSUS OF TliJi VAGINA. Foreign Bodies in the Vagina. These may Le introduced by the patient herself, under some morbid excitement] or, violently and criminally, by a second party. And they may be of such bulk, or so impacted, as to resist the ordinary means of extraction. By dilatation and lubrication of the passage, and by the judicious use of forceps or lever—or, if possible, of a cork- screw—dislodgment may be effected, without injury of the parts. In difficult cases, division of the impacted substance—or, if that is imprac- ticable, of the sphincter—may be necessary, as in the analogous case of the rectum. Prolapsus of the Vagina May exist in various degrees; the dislocated part stiU remaining in the vaginal cavity, or protruding from it at the vulva. It may be partial or complete. Partial prolapsus consists in the faUing down of a part of the vagina; generally either of the anterior wall (vaginal cysto- cele), or of the posterior waU (vaginal rectocele). Complete prolapsus resembles prolapse of the bowel per anum; the whole circumference of the vaginal tube descending. It is distinguished from prolapsus of the uterus, by the anatomical characters of the mucous membrane of the vagina, and by our reaching the os uteri with the finger passed through and above the swelling. It is generally accompanied by a feeling of much weight and uneasi- ness ; and often there is considerable irritation with discharge. The functions of the bladder and rectum are more or less impeded or de- ranged ; and if the dislocation has been suddenly produced, there may be obstinate constipation and strangury. It is a complaint extremely distressing to the female ; not only causing uneasinesss or pain in sit- ting or walking, but often exciting unnecessary alarm. The affection is most common in women who have borne many children, or suffered frequent abortions, who suffer from ruptured peri- neum, or who labour under menorrhagia or aggravated leucorrhoea. In short, anything which tends to relax the parts involved favours its oc- currence j not forgetting the influence of deranged general health, and feeble constitution. It may be caused suddenly and kept up by any violent effort, as in coughing, sneezing, laughing, lifting a heavy weight, or straining at stool. Sometimes removal of the exciting cause—with or without the use of cold and astringent lotions and general tonics—is sufficient to effect a cure. The wearing of an understrap is often beneficial. Sometimes a pessary, in shape adapted to the parts, is enough. But if the case prove incurable and cause much annoyance, it may be dealt with by the knife ; carefully dissecting off slips of the mucous membrane of the prolapsed parts, and then bringing the edges together by interrupted sutures; by this means the calibre of the vagina is diminished, and the contraction renders prolapse more difficult. If the perineum is much lacerated, an operation should be performed for its reunion.