732 EXOPHTHALMOS. eyes are implicated iu atiuiuting—though in very unequal degrees it Avill be found quite impossible to restore parallelism in position and motion, if the myotomy be limited to that organ which is most pro- minently affected. In most cases, however, it is unnecessary to operate on the second eye, until we see the effect produced by what has been done to the first. In operating for strabismus, except in nervous females, children, or unusually sensitive patients, it is much better not to give chloroform; as it delays the operation, and prevents the effects of the division of the tendon from being recognised, till the anesthetic effect has passed offi In keeping the lids open, specula of different kinds may be employed • but the spring wire speculum is best suited for the purpose—not interfer- ing with the manipulations of the operator, as the hands of an assistant necessarily do. Occasionally the cure is more than complete ; squinting in the oppo- site direction being threatened. And were the other rectus muscle now to be divided, unseemly projection of the eyeball could not fail to be pro- duced. Should this result occur, it is sufficient in most cases to excise a portion of the conjunctiva on the site of the divided muscles ; the contraction produced by sutures—or of the sore, in healing—sufficing to restore the normal position. Exophthalmos.—Protrusion of the Eyeball. Undue prominence of the globe may be produced by different causes. Inflammatory, dropsical, or bloody effusion into the areolar tissue of the orbit we have seen may occasion it. Tumours within the orbit produce it; and in all such the globe retains its normal bulk, although pushed forwards from behind. In some cases there is, at the same time, from the position of the tumour, some lateral displacement. Chronic inflam- matory changes, and morbid growths within the globe, ultimately produce an undue protrusion of the eye; but in such cases the globe itself is enlarged. The term, however, of exojoMhalmos, as employed at the present day, is generally intended to designate those anomalous cases, where, in an anaemic patient affected with palpitation, and more or less enlargement of the thyroid gland, an unnatural protrusion of both the eyeballs appears to constitute the entii'e disease. Various explanations have been adduced to account for this condition j as, for example, disten- sion of the orbital arteries and veins^ or effusion of serum into the areolar tissues of the orbit; and these conditions have been supposed to be due to pressure of the enlarged thyroid on the deep veins of the neck, or to be occasioned by some cause interfering with the sympathetic nerve, or with the posterior roots of the upper intercostal nerves, or with the Casserian ganglion. Vision, in such cases, may either be normal, or very defective. The treatment consists in the employment of measures calculated to cure the goitre, and relieve the anaemia and palpitation; as j iron, belladoiuia, and valerian. As the patient's general health improves, , the exophthalmos usually abates ; vision, however, when imi^aired, is hut I slowly restored.