RICKETS. 319 marked in both legs and thighs ; imparting dwarfishness to the frame, as well as distortion. The articulating ligaments fail; causing deformity of the knee and ankle-joints. The pelvis is small; its front wall is flattened, and forced back .upon the sacrum. And a characteristic hollowness is imparted to the loins, by the sacrum being thrust down- wards ; its promontory becoming unusually salient, and its posterior surface forming the bottom of a hollow on the back part of the pelvis. At the same time both ilia are displaced backwards, so as to overlap the sacrum and approach each other ; sometimes leaving scarce an inch of space between their posterior borders. The ribs foUow the spinal distortion ; usually so as to produce a marked, and even sharp prominence of the chest, which is greatly con- tributed to by a bending forwards of the sternum. The clavicles have I their natural curves increased. The scapulas are not much changed ; i except in shewing enlargement of the articulating surfaces. The bones I of the arm and forearm are twisted, more or less ; but retain much more of their normal character than do the lower extremities ; the one set having to bear muscular effort alone, while the other has to contend with both this and superincumbent weight. By alteration in the important visceral cavities, breathing is op- pressed, and the assimilatmg organs are more or less embarrassed; usually the abdomen is preternaturally prominent. The stature is stunted, dwarfish and unseemly. Besides, there are the ordinary characteristics of the scrofulous diathesis; the child being usually flabby and fat, pot- [ belhed, and with, frequently, more or less enlargement of the thyroid and I thymus glands. The forehead, too, is remarkably prominent; and though the entire head is usually below the standard dimensions, yet ; from still greater deficiency of growth in the bones of the face, the J cranium seems unusually large. ! The features are marked, and developed with an unpleasant fulness ; j the general expression of the face is displeasing, and altogether so pecu- ; liar as to be almost pathognomonic of the general disease. Although there may be unusual thickness of the skull, yet this is to be under- stood only in its literal sense ; for often the intellectual power is vivid and great. The predisposing cause of rickets, as formerly stated, seems to be a vitiated state of system, analogous to that of scrofula. It occurs most frequently in a cold, moist climate, and among the children of the poor; where malassimilation is produced by bad or insufficient food, and the want of suitable dwellings. Frequently, the exciting cause is traced by the friends to some of the debilitating accidents incidental to childhood; as dentition, or some of the host of infantile disorders therewith con- nected. ^ Often the change in the skeleton is first observed on the child's attempting to walk; and then the primary deformity is of the lower Hmbs, chiefly below the knee. But even at this early period the enlarged wrists and ankles will be obvious. In the legs the knees approach each other; the ankles diverge, and the shins curve forwards over the ankles; a very different kind of bending from the ordinary bandy appearance, or mere exaggeration of the natural tibial curve, which so often occurs in the heavy but healthy child, who, perhaps prematurely, lias begun to struggle