371 LOOSE BODIES IN JOINTS. ;he hectic cause by amputation may be demanded. The certainty of iuppuration, profuse and perhaps protracted, and the chance of amputa- ;ion following thereon, should never be omitted in our prognostic calcu- ations. 3. By careful examination with the probe, and by manipulation, ,ve should be satisfied that the disease is of no great extent beyond the nere articular extremities. For it is plain that the removal of several nches of each bone—and unless all the diseased part be thoroughly aken away, the operation had better not be attempted—cannot be txpected to be followed by even an approach to cure in any way satis- actory; and ought to be superseded by the then not more harsh pro- ;edure of amputation. Eegarding extensive involvement of the soft )arts, we need be less anxious ; they being capable of recovery under pparently very adverse circumstances, as already stated. 4. The opera- ion is not to be undertaken during inflammatory activity, either of the oft parts or of the hard. If such exist, it must first be subdued by the trdinary means. 5. The more intense the development of the scrofulous liathesis, the more unfavourable the case for resection; and vice versa. ). The successful results of excision, it must be borne in mind, and the mall fatality which attends upon it, will justify a resort to it at a much arher period of the disease, especially in the elbow-joint, than would lave rendered amputation necessary in former times. Loose Bodies in Joints. Loose substances, usually of an irregularly oval form, are sometimes ound floating within joints ; and the one most liable to this afl'ection is he knee. They are commonly termed cartilages; but they vary in tructure and consistence. Sometimes they are of almost calcareous or isseous density; sometimes they are oft and fatty; most frequently they lonsist of fibrous tissue, containing acre or less of cartilage — shewing a section the appearance which is isually termed fibro - cartilaginous, 'hey vary in size from a pea to a )rune; the average dimensions are hose of a flattened middle-sized bean. ^6 surface is generally smooth; but ometitnes broken by slight nodo- ities. Most frequently they occur ;ingly ^ and seldom more than two or three are found in any one joint. Sometimes they are not, strictly speaking, loose, but attached by a deli- ate, sometimes thread-like, neck to the capsule of the joint. These bodies have been supposed to be formed in various ways. By external growth. A plastic formation takes place externally to he synovial membrane; and as it enlarges, that membrane is pushed f tT'-^°™^"° a close envelope. The little mass projects into the cavity « the jomt, and is not unlikely to assume a pedunculated character. On orl^^' ^^c^^^i^a of humerus ; shewing formation and connexion of loose carti- aginous bodies. Fig. 163.