CHAPTER VL HYPEETEOPI-IY, ATEOPHY, AND ABSOEPTION. Hypertrophy. This is simply an excess of growth in the part, whereby, while its normal structure is enlarged, its functional activity is also enlianced. Unconnected with the inflammatory process, it is most frequently the consequence of unusual and sustained functional exertion. The walls of the heart, for example, labouring to propel the blood through contracted channels of exit, become thus affected; and similar change on the muscular coat of the bladder invariably follows the straining attendant on stricture of the urethra. Arrest of the change can be obtained only by removal of the cause ; and diminution of the bullc may be helped, when the part affected happens to be external, by pressure and friction. Atrop)hy. Atrophy of a part may occur in two ways ; from excess of waste, or from deficiency of supply. In most cases,- it is probable that both cir- cumstances concur to establish the result. The part is gradually dimi- nished in bulk, and its function is more or less deranged. Atrophy, with degeneration, implies not only diminution of bulk, but more or less change of structure in the part; the ordinary texture disappearing, and fatty, fibrous, or calcareous matter occupying its room. The first named is the most frequent variety of change. Atrophy may follow on the inflammatory process ; as a remote con- sequence, not as a direct result. The connection is usually with the chronic form. That affection ceasing, absorption busies itself to remove the loaded change of structure ; and this exaltation of function may be continued beyond what was necessary to restore the healthful balance. Besides, that disuse of the part which attends on chronic inflammatory disease will necessarily have the effect of diminishing the arterial circula- tion j and this latter cause of wasting may be further contributed to by a remaining change of structure in the part itself Or any of these causes may of themselves be equal to the result. Thus, a testicle, Avhich has been simply inflamed, may become simply atroj)hied; a limb which has been long disused, on account of inflammatory disease of a joint, or from any other cause, invariably is more or less wasted ; granular disease of the kidney is accompanied or followed by decrease in the bulk of that organ. Treatment.—The indications are simple. To obviate tlio cause or