REMOVAL OF THE LOWER JAW. 787 carefully dissected off the surface of the tumour, the anterior part of tlie bone being drawn outAvards so as to effect this more safely. The mucous iuombrane°is then divided, and the whole jaw is depressed so as to bring the attachment of the temporal muscle to the corouoid process within i-each of the knife; its tendon is cut through, and the internal pterygoid muscle divided; then, depressing the tumour and drawing it outwards, the joint is opened on its anterior aspect, and partly by twisting, partly by the carefid. use of the knife, disarticulation is effected so as to avoid wounding the internal maxillary artery, where it passes between the internal lateral ligament and neck of the bone. The bleeding vessels are tied at the upper end of the wound; and should the joint have been disarticulated as directed, there will be no occasion for securing either the internal maxillary, or common trunk of that vessel and temporal, as was recommended by Mr. Listen. Both ends of the facial artery, which is divided at the commencement of the operation, should be tied after the soft parts have been dissected from the tumour, before applying the saw, as in this way bleeding is prevented. A folded piece of lint should now be laid in the cavity from which the tumour has been removed, the flap is then replaced, and retained by suture ; the integrity of the lower lip in fi'ont obviously contributing much to the facility of accurate adjust- ment, and to the appearance of the patient afterwards. The wound generally heals by adhesion; the interior suppurates, but the discharge of matter takes place into the mouth. Dressing of the interior is con- ducted as in the case of the ujjper jaw ; and cicatrization with more or less puckering in like manner results. During the process of consoHda- tion material benefit will be obtained from the use of a mechanical contrivance, adapted to the teeth of the upper and lower jaws, whereby overlapping and displacement of the remaining portion of the lower jaw is prevented. " Metallic caps are fitted to the teeth of the upper and lower jaws of the sound side, and are riveted and soldered together at their bases, so that, when applied, they shall have the effect of preventing idragging of the remaining portion of the bone and chin to the opposite by the external pterygoid, mylohyoid, and digastric muscles, and by elasticity of the soft parts. This apparatus should be worn for many j:s after the operation." * Contrivances may also be temporarily worn, 3he injured side, to prevent undue shrinking of the cheek dming lulation. Where the tumour does not invade the neck and condyle he bone, it will be found advantageous to terminate the external sion about an inch below the articulation, even should we determine effecting disarticulation, as in that way we avoid division of the io dura, which crosses the ascending ramus of the bone at this point, operation is performed in other respects as already described, except the disarticulation is effected by twisting the bone out of its socket, cutting the textures upon the neck of the bone as they are exposed n the tumour is drawn downwards and backwards. Sometimes it is necessary to remove the symphysis along with one- of the jaw ; the tumour being so extensive. This is effected by I a form of incision as recommended for disarticulation with section lie symphysis. * Liston's Practical Surgery, p. 318.