103G OrERATION FOR STRANGULATION. protruding through tho skin by the same puncture as on the first occasion. The opposite end of the wire is now withdrawn. The two ends wliicli thus hang ont at the incision in the groin are first dra-\vn upon and twisted firmly together; and then tlie loop, which projects above Pou- part's ligament, is twisted down into the puncture, so as to approxi- mate and close the extremities and boundaries of the crural canal. The ends of the wire and the loop are then fastened over a pad of lint. Or the upper extremity of a compress of wood, or a roller bandage, having been introduced within the circle of the loop, the ends of the Avire are draAvn firmly downwards, and secured over the lower end of this. Sup- port by means of a spica bandage, and the same after-treatment as in the radical cure of the inguinal hernia, are to be adopted. Strangulation is both more common and more severe than in the in- guinal forms of hernia; and consequently operation is more frequently required. It is performed thus :—The skin, having been pinched up, is divided by transfixion ; in order that there may be no risk of injury to the important parts beneath. The form of this integumental wound may be greatly varied ; an inverted T ; an inverted Y ; a V ; a simple oblique cut; or, as shewn in the accompanying diagram— The investing textures are cautiously divided, by means of the forceps and knife—the latter held horizontally ; and the sac is exposed. In many cases the opening of it cannot be avoided. And, this having been done, the forefinger of the left hand is passed up to the neck of the tumour. Here, as in the oblique inguinal hernia, there may be two strictures, a superficial and a deep. The former is considerably anterior to the ligament of Gimbernat, and independent of it; formed by the inner and anterior part of the crescentic portion of the crural arch ; felt tight, on the inside of the tumour's neck, while the finger's point is yet at some distance from the actual brim of the pelvis. This resistance is divided by a probe-pointed bistoury— slid flatly along the finger, and after- wards having its edge directed upwards and inwards. Dilatation is then made by the finger; and, on witlidi-awing this, reduction may be efi"ected, readily. Fig. 316. ' , • • ■ 1 J If not, the finger is re-mtroduced; and, pushing it upwards, Gimbernat's ligament and the crural arch are felt tight and resisting, on a deeper level than the former site of constric- tion. They are divided in a similar way; the bistoury's point being barely insinuated within the margin of the stricture; the least move- ment of its blade suflfices ; a notch in the edge of the hganient is enough ; and the finger, following, dilates. Were the deep incision to Fig. 316. Portion of bowel, not including its whole calibre, which was caught and strangled at the crural aperture ; the sjTnptoms, though modified, proving fatal. During life, no tumour could be discovered at the site of protrusion.—Liston. His Elements, p. 53.5.