425 CONSTITUTIONAL TREATMENT. the aneurism, should be performed. This, although obviously a forlorn hope, is not so absurd in principle as ligature of the vessel beyond the aneurism most assuredly would bo ; for it not only arrests the circulation through the main trunk upon which the aneurism is situated, but also through all the branches given off between the cardiac aspect of the tumour and the point of amputation. Treatment of Aneurism beyond the reach of Surgery. Not unfrequently, aneurism is so situated as to be amenable to none of the ordinary methods of treatment. In such cases the issue is likely to prove untoward; the disease continuing to advance, till death ensue by one or other of the methods formerly noticed. Yet there may be some hope of spontaneous cure. And, further, we have some means in our power whereby that event may be favoui'ed. Our object is to oppose the tumour's increase, and favour its becoming consolidated and impervious. The obvious mode of accomplishing such an end, is to moderate circulation in general; at the same time promoting coagulation in the part. It is not advisable to take blood ; but aconite, or belladona, or the veratrum viride, will be useful in maintaining a sedative effect on the circulation; the dose being, of course, regulated by the effect pro- duced. Food is simple, nutritious, and non-stimulant; simple, so as not to excite the circulation ; but not too meagre, otherwise a thinness of blood will result, unfavourable to the occurrence of fibrinous deposit, and consequently hostile to not the least important indication of cure. A due proportion of fibrin is essential j and nicety of management is plainly necessary to secure this, yet maintaining gentleness of arterial flow. Eegulation of the bowels is not to be neglected; but all drastic purgiag should be abstained from. For, though at first a sedative effect may be thus obtained, excitement of the circulation is almost sure to follow. Eepose of both body and mind is carefully enjoined. The nature and object of the treatment are explained to the patient, and his intelligent yet not over-anxious co-operation is thus secured. By long, patient, and skilful perseverance, he may be reAvarded by a cure; but, unfortunately, even under the best management, this is rather the excep- tion than the rule. Treatment of Accidental Aneurism. Probably the most common example of this Isesion is the result of wound in venesection, at the bend of the arm ; and that may be taken as a sufl&cient illustration of the general subject. Prevention of the aneurismal formation is in our power; if the case be seen at the moment of injury, or even soon after. Firm pressure is made with the thumb over the puncture, while an assistant is busy encuclmg each finger of the wounded member separately in a bandage ; these bandages meet in the palm; and a roller is then carried from the hand upwards, until the site of puncture is reached. A graduated com- press of hnt is placed accurately over the wound; the compressing nnger or thumb being cautiously removed for this pxirposc. And the compress is retained securely in its place T)y the roller; bandaging being