786 EXTIRPATION OF THE LOWEll JAW. accoiiut ol' a retum of the disease in the remaining portion of bone* From such a very limited experience of the complete extirpation of tlie jaw at one operation, it is impossible to decide upon the success which is likely to attend upon its repetition. Apart from cases of necrosis of the bono from condyle to condyle, which of course, in the removal of the sequestrum, afford no true analogy to the operation for tumour, various cases are on record where the entire maxilla has been shot away, or torn off by accident. There appears, therefore, no reason to fear that either the immediate or consequent effects of the operation should necessarily determine a fatal issue, and therefore no reason on account of hypothe- tical objections which may be raised to refuse our sanction to the per- formance of such an operation in suitable cases. In performing this operation, an incision is carried along the margin of the ramus of the jaw and its base, from articulation to articulation; the soft parts, dissected off, are turned up over the face as a flap; the articu- lation on one side is opened by Cusack'e method from the front; depressing the bone, and dividing the temporal muscle, the condyle is started from its socket first on the one side and then upon the other ; after which the soft parts attached to the interior of the bone are carefully divided, the knife being directed against the surface of the tumour; and the attachments of the muscles of the tongue to the sym- physis are divided last of all. Partial removal of the lower jaw is a very common operation; and, as formerly stated, when undertaken on account of genuine osteosarcoma is usually followed by a fortunate issue. Partial excision of the lower jaw includes the following operative procedures :—1. Excision of one-half from symphysis to condyle. 2. Excision of the symphysis, and more or less of the base on both sides. 3. Excision of the base on one side. 4. Ex- cision of the condyle and coronoid process as far as the angle of the bone. The removal of one-half of the jaw is effected as follows :—The in- cision is commenced over the articulation, and continued downwards and forwards, along the posterior and inferior borders of the bone, first on its ramus and then on the body, to a point a" little beyond that where it is intended to divide the bone. The soft parts are dissected off the surface of the tumour so as to expose it fully, leaving the mucous membrane undivided till near the conclusion of the operation, so as to avoid blood flowing into the cavity of the mouth during the remaining steps of the procedure. The bone anterior to and beyond the confines of the tumour should then be cleared of soft parts, so as to admit of a small saw being applied to cut tlirough the base of the bone. The cutting-phers are introduced into this notch, and the division of the bone completed. The soft parts attached to the inner aspect of the base of the jaw are next * Lancet, No. 1557, p. 8. Fig. 2S5. Fig. 285. Osteosarcoma of tlie lower jaw, supervening on osteocystoma.—Liston, Fide Elements, p. 420.