230 CAPILLAllY IIEMOllRHAGE. in which venous hemorrhage interupts the progress of a deep and diffi- cult dissection, or where loss of life by loss of blood is impending—other means having failed. Supposing this last condition to have occurred— Avhicli is not likely—rather than tie the vein itself, employ acu-pressm-e, or let the surrounding parts be included in the ligature. This, as a means of arresting the hemorrhage, will be both sufficient and safe. Puncture of a vein, if the vessel be not very large, or placed near the centre of circulation, closes readily by natural hemostatics alone. The flow and force of blood in the wound are comparatively sHght; coagulum forms readily, and is not apt to be dislodged. If the punctm-e be longitudinal, the lips remain in apposition ; and simply cohere by adhesion. If it be oblique or transverse, there is more or less gaping of the wound ; which, however, soon becomes occupied by coagulum extend- ing between the edges of the venous aperture ; and this is strengthened, and supported in its place, by clots formed externally. Plastic for- mation takes place from the margins of the wound, and is incorporated with the clot; and this new matter becoming organized, the coagulum disappears by absorption. Ultimately a new membranous expansion is constructed—continuous with, and furnished by, the original coats— whereby the chasm is permanently and efficiently closed. The clot ob- structing the wound in the vein was, as it were, the scaffolding or mould whereon the new structure was formed ; and, when the latter became complete, the former was undone and removed. The external coagulum is also absorbed; the new membrane becomes incorporated with the ordinary areolar tissue ; and the part in all respects resumes its normal condition. The venous canal may be obstructed, by excess of coagulum and new formation, at the wounded point; but usually it remains through- out pervious and unchanged; a striking difference from the ordinaiy result of the corresponding process in arterial tissue. Nay—still in dis- similarity—a venous tube may have been thoroughly obstructed even by plastic change, and have remained so for months—yet opening up after- wards to its former calibre and flow. Puncture of an artery may, and sometimes does, simply heal in thi- same way as a vein ; that is, by an obstructing coagulum, on and in which a reproduction of the coats is effected ; while the canal remain'^ free. But such exceptional occurrences are not to be depended upon : as the comparative impetuosity of the blood's flow in the artery is a fatal obstacle to the general occiu-rence of such a mode of cure. Capillary Hemorrhage. The oozing of blood from the smaller vessels is formidable only b} continuance. And, in ordinary circumstances, tliis need not be, if tin right treatment be adopted—pressure, exact and firm, ^^dth the styptu'^ if need be. But in a certain morbid state of blood and bloodvessels i: is otherwise. The Hemorrhagic Diathesis.—By this term is meant a tendency bleeding of an uncontrollable land, even from a slight breach of surface This peculiar state of system may be either congenital or acquired. Fro quently it is the former, and seems to be hereditary; descending chiefly