STAPHYLOMA OF THE CORNEA. 690 the injury, Ly the edge of a knife, leaving the rest of tlie part clear and free.* ^ When the opacity consists of a deposit of lead, as a chalk-like layer in the site of an ulcer, this may easily enough he removed with satisfactory results by means of a minute steel spatula, or gouge ; and the same plan of treatment has been successfully employed by Messrs. Bowman and Dixon in those very rare cases, where calcareous deposits occur between the cornea proper and its epithelial coating. In advanced years, and sometimes oven in the comparatively young adult, the corneal periphery gradually becomes opaque, and of a grey colour. The change has been shewn by Mr. Canton to depend on fatty degeneration of the tissue; with a surmise that it may sometimes prove to be an important external indication of similar lesion in more vital parts.t The affection is termed Arcus senilis; in itself a mere defer-, mity; and not amenable to remedial treatment. Pig. 252. SiajjJiyloma of the Cornea. Staphyloma is an opaque jDrojection occupying the position of a pari^ or of the Avhole of the cornea. Partial staphyloma is usually situated at the lower or lateral part the cornea. The iris is adlierent to the whole inner surface of the jection, and consequently the anterior chamber is much dimuiished size ; generally the pupil itself is more or 1 involved, and vision rendered very imperfect The affection is caused by an ulcer penetrat the cornea, and allowing the iris to become pr lapsed through the opening. When a conside able portion of the iris has protruded, it does no shrink when the inflammatory process suhsid but remains, and forms a projection at that part the cornea. After a time the exposed projectio of the iris is covered by an opaque firm tissue, of the nature of cicai the edges of which become incorporated at the base with the sound com It is generally the consequence of strumous, catarrhal, or purulent oph tlialmia. Total staphyloma is formed exactly in the same way; it differs onl; in degree. When, as is often the case in purulent ophthalmia, the who! or greater part of the cornea is destroyed, the iris falls forwards, th pupil closes, and the aqueous humour, accumulating in the posteria chamber, keeps the iris distended in the form of a tumour in the fron. of the eye. The surface of this tumour, as in the partial staphylom becomes gradually covered with a firm oj)aque cicatrix-like tissue, of mor or less thickness ; and a total staphyloma resiilts. This pseudo-cornea, o staj^hyloma, has the form and appearance of a small globe stuck on tb front of the eye, with sometimes a ring of the proper cornea surroimdm. its base. It is often so large as to project considerably from betwce the eyelids, and prevent them from closing. * Lancet, No. 1010, p. 537. f Lancet, Jan. 11, 1851. Fig. 252. Stapliylomn.