797 RANULA. lated to produce plastic change, or even partial sloughing of its texture— the introduction of a heated awl or broad needle, m various directions, being of these apparently the most suitable. Failing this, the disease must be regarded as beyond the reach of our art. Deligation of both lin- gual arteries has been practised ; but ■vvith a result wliich does not invito repetition ; fatal sloughing of the organ having ensued,* In one case mentioned by Brown, the tumour situated on the lateral aspect of the tongue was making rapid progress, but after an accidental salivation, attended with great swelling of the whole organ and buccal cavity, the disease became arrested. Division of the Frcenum. In the child, the fraenum linguse may be so short as greatly to in- commode the organ, constituting " tongue-tack ; " at first impeding suc- tion, afterwards embarrassing articulation. Or the defect may be more accurately expressed, perhaps, as an abnormal prolongation forwards of the frasnum, tying down the apex of the tongue. Cases are, however, frequently brought to the surgeon in which this condition is believed to exist, but where the inability to suck or articulate will be found due to some other cause than any abnormal condition of the frsenum. When the tip of the tongue can be raised above the level of the gums, and can be made to touch the palate, or to protrude so as to touch the lips, we may be sure there is no " tongue-tack." The free margin of the faulty tex- ture is readily divided, by means of probe-pointed scissors—the point of the tongue being elevated, so as to stretch the part, by fingers intro- duced on each side of the frasnum; cutting only the free margin of e band, the finger nail is employed to complete the separation to the equired extent, and so troublesome bleeding by wound of the ranine essels is avoided. During healing, the part should be manipulated ccasionally so as to prevent recontraction. In the adult, a somewhat similar condition may supervene, in conse- uence of troublesome suppuration beneath the tongue. During cicatriz- tion, the apex of the organ is drawn down, and becomes confined by a ense band of adventitious formation. This spurious frasnum may be ssected through; and, by dint of careful dressing, a more favourable icatrix may be obtained. Ranida. Kanula denotes a tumour, formed beneath the tongue, in consequence obstruction, it may be, in one or both of the salivary ducts. In such * Liston's Elements of Surgery, p. 409. Fig. 289. Expaihsion of the lower jaw ; the result of pressure by the tongue, en- arged by erectile tissue.—Li.ston. Vide his Elements of Surgery, p. 410.