CHAPTEE LXIV. AFFECTIONS OF TPIE FEMALE GENITAL OEGANS. The affections included in tliis chapter are considered very briefly, the great majority belonging to the exclusive province of the obstetric prac- titioner. Inflammatory Affection of the Vulva Occurs at all ages. In the adult it presents no marked peculiarity in its history or treatment. In the child, it forms the disease generally called infantile gonorrhoea, or infantile leucorrhoea. This affection, which was long mistaken for the result of attempted impure connection, may occur at any period of adolescence. It is most frequently seen in delicate, unhealthy children; and more among the children of the lower than of the higher classes. Not unfrequently it comes on during convalescence from the eruptive fevers, or during teething. Sometimes no cause can be assigned ; or it may be induced by worms or other rectal irritation, by want of cleanliness, or by exposure of the parts to damp and cold. The symptoms are, constant irritation and pain, so that the child is frequently moving its hand towards the part; pain and scalding in making water, to which the calls are sometimes inordinately frequent; and, in addition, the ordinary signs of slight febrile excitement. On inspecting the pudenda, they are found bathed in pus ; the whole surface of the vulva is swoln, red, and tender; and there is frequently, on and around the vulva, an eruption of a few red inflaming sjDots, which may either disappear, or go on to form small pustules. Some- times the tumid tender nympliEe protrude between the larger labia, pro- ducing excessive pain on motion, and usually preventing the patient altogether from walking, except with the limbs considerably apart from each other. Treatment is simple. In mild cases, nothing but cleanliness may be required. In the more severe, it is necessary to exhibit laxative and alterative medicine, to keep the patient in bed, to allay feverish irritation by hot bathing, to apply locally hot fomentations at the outset, and subsequently to use various washes—as a weak solution of nitrate of silver, or of sulphate of zinc. The decoction of poppies is often useful to remove irritation, and Carron oil frequently affords great relief Strips of Hnt, soaked in the lotion or application, should be introduced between the folds of the vulva, in the intervals between the use of the bidet. If the skin is broken, especial care by dressing must be taken, during the healmg, to prevent cohesion of the labia.