1069 PHOSPHURU. crj^stalline forms, corresponding to the basic varieties of the salt. " When rapidly formed, this salt generally appears in the form of six-rayed stars, each ray being serrated, or irregularly crenate, often runcinate, like the leaf of the taraxaciun," There are, however, many varieties of star-shaped and foliaceous crystals, consisting of basic triple phosphate; and generally these are mixed Avith the nentral salt in the ordinary prismatic form above described. All the forms may be readily produced artificially, by adding ammonia or its carbonate in different quantities to the urine. The phosphatic gravel is usually white or pale grey—whether amor- phous or crystalline; it may be precipitated in the form of plain gravel, or it may be either suspended or precipitated in a cloud resembling that of mucus, or it may form as a pelHcle on the surface of the urine. The ujine is pale and copious ; of low density ; occasionally alkalescent, when voided ; never more than very faintly acid; often turbid, the last por- tion which is voided presenting a milky appearance—the phosphates being already precipitated; sometimes it emits a heavy, sickening flavour, somewhat similar to that of weak broth ; not unfrequently it is ammo- niacal from the first, dark-coloured, and loaded with mucus; in all cases, it very soon putrefies, precipitating the deposit copiously, and exhaling a very offensive odour. Very generally, an iridescent pellicle forms on its surface; consisting of minute shining crystals of the ammoniaco-magne- sian phosphate. The symptoms which attend the continuance of phosphatic deposit, are invariably of the asthenic type. The patient is pale, weak, nervous, irritable; incapable of sustained exertion of either body or mind ; the bowels are flatulent and irregular; and an oppressive, exhausting pain, or aching, is almost constantly complained of in the loins. The cause may be local or constitutional Whatever tends to exhaust the general, and more especially the nervous system, tends to induce this deposit; over-exertion, especially of mind; insufficient food; the habi- tual use of depressing medicines, as mercury, alkalies, saHne purgatives. Also, this deposit is a frequent consequence of injured kidney, and of in- jury to the spine; and it is an almost invariable attendant on confirmed disease—more especially if organic—in the bladder, kidney, ureter, or prostate. An occasional deposit of phosphates may follow a slight and transient cause; as error in diet, or profuse perspiration under violent exercise. But continuance invariably denotes broken health. The least formidable cases are those in which the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate alone is found; and the worst are usually those in which the deposit consists of a combination of this salt with the phosphate of lime. Happily, the phosphatic gravel is not prone to agglomerate within the bladder, unless a nucleus be present; then, however, the cohesion of particles, around this, takes place rapidly. In treatment—as in that of the uric deposit—we have to dii-ect at- tention both to the deposit, and to the causes which lead to its formation. The mineral acids—as the muriatic, nitric, or a combination of both— exert a double influence ; they increase the solubility of the phosphates, and at the same time give tone to the primse vite and general system. They are given in doses of a few drops, much diluted, and gradually in- creased. Eegimen is carefully attended to. Food should be generous,,