TREATMENT OF ACUTE SYNOVITIS. 340 loico, elbow, wrist, and anklo. On the whole, the first is tlie most fre- quent snflcrer. Treatment.—Treatment is early, active, and truly antiphlogistic. Blood is taken away copiously from the near vicinity of the inflaming part, leeches or by cupping ; it being obviously of the utmost impor- tance to check the process at its outset, or, at all events, to bring it down to a slower rate oi progress, and to a minor grade of intensity. The tissue alfected is endowed with both importance of function and de- licacy of structure. After bleeding, therefore, the exhibition of calomel and opium is advisable; as being most calculated, by its systemic in- fluence, to save structure, and consequently retain function. Should cir- cumstances render mercurialization inexpedient, or at least hazardous, full doses of aconite or antimony may be substituted. When the rheumatic diathesis is apparent, colchicum, with the salines, will be preferable to either—the former pushed, in full doses, till its physiological effect has been at least threatened, if not established. The limb is encouraged to maintain the relaxed posture, voluntarily assumed ; and immunity from motion is anxiously secured, by gentle deligation of the part to soft pillows, skilfully and carefully arranged. Purgatives are inexpedient; as opposed to immunity from motion. Should tendency to spasm prove troublesome, opiates are advisable ; and the combination of camphor with hyoscyamus, or belladonna will sometimes be found preferable. Fomentation is applied to the part; regimen is low; and, in short, aU the ordinary details of antiphlogistic treatment are rigidly enforced. In the great majority of cases, early seen and judiciously treated, the disease is arrested in its progress, ere the suppurative crisis has been attained. Then, as ordinarily happens in acute serous collections, the work of resolution slowly advances, almost spontaneously; aid from treat- ment consisting merely in continued rest of the part, occasional fomen- tation, and maintenance of the spare regimen. Absorption is soon busy in clearing away the results, and, in most cases, is equal to the efficient completion of its task. But should it begin to flag, then it may be assisted from without ; by gentle friction, pressure, stimulating plasters or inunction, or the slighter forms of counter-irritation; these, however, being always adopted cautiously, and as if with hesitation; lest, by their premature use, the embers of a not yet extinct disease might again be lighted into flame. When the inflammatory process has subsided, and its results also have been removed, motion is to be gradually restored ; at first passive and gentle, and always desisted from when pain is induced. Many a limb has been lost—for many a joint has suppurated—in consequence of reaccession of acute disease from imprudent resumption of motion. Some surgeons, while they forbid voluntary motion, yet forcibly alter the position of the joint during the acute progress of the disease; on the ground that thus all subsequent awkwardness and deformity are more likely to be avoided. It is, doubtless, an object of very great importance, that the part's function should ultimately be restored; that the limb should not be permanently bent, and the joint not permanently stiff; but an over-anxiety to fulfil this indication may lead one to straigliten