358 QUESTION OF OPERATION IN SCROFULOUS PATIENTS. itself—at least for a time; and in some, at first apparently irremediable the amendment may be both so marked and so sustained, as not only to Avarrant the entertainment of a hope of cure, but even to carry that out to a tolerably successful issue ; the joint may diy, and stiffen, and be con- solidated—both life and limb retained. In any case of urgency, whose circumstances point to early amputa- tion, it behoves us to consider, before determining on that extreme mea- sure, that it is possible the counter-irritant treatment may have been carried too far, and that this may be the cause, at least in part, of both the local and constitutional aggravation. Accordingly it is expedient, in the first instance, whenever circumstances permit, to abandon all active treatment—allowing the issues to heal, maintaining absolute rest of the part, giving due regard to the general health, and letting an interval of repose declare whether the urgency has arisen from the progress of the disease, or from excessive action of the means of cure. If the issues have been in fault, the symptoms Avill satisfactorily subside, during this interval; amputation, in consequence, is not only deferred, but may be rendered altogether unnecessary. If, on the other hand, no amendment follow, amputation or excision is unhesitatingly performed. In those scrofulous and cachectic cases in which it is plain the part cannot be saved—and unfortunately these do not constitute the minority —removal of the joint by either amputation or resection is naturally looked to as the only source of hope; that by a sacrifice of a part, a mutilated whole may still be saved. But careful inquiry and reflection are necessary ere this resource can be duly determined on; otherwise it may happen, that by removal of a part we do not succeed in preserviii. the whole, even for a time, but on the contrary greatly accelerate i; decay. It may be that the frame is irrevocably the victim of the tuber- cular cachexy, and doomed sooner or later to perish thereby; but for tl time it is relieved by the breaking out of a drain or safety valve in tl: suppurated joint, whereby the injurious deposit is with comparative in punity prevented from occurring in internal parts ; exhausting the syste: in one sense, it is true, and inducing marked hectic, under which vit. power must ultimately be prostrated; but still keeping back the moi formidable obstacle to life by disease in an internal organ—lungs, livci kidneys, or all. Such deadly internal disease may be only threatened ;i yet; and the open joint may delay its invasion. Or even should tin phthisis be already plain, the local discharge, if free and constant, ma^^ moderate its onward progress. Whereas, should the operation be per formed, and should the wound dry and heal, the probability—^nay, almos the certainty is, that the internal and more serious disorder will sustaii a mighty and altogether uncontrollable aggravation, and, inducing a f;i Avorse form of hectic, hiuiy the patient fast into the grave. With tli open joint, he might have lived for months, in comparative ease ; will out it—supposing the operation to be in all respects locally successful- days, or weeks at most, will see his doom complete. Ere opemtion 1 definitively resolved on, therefore, let there be a careful review of tl patient's past history and present circumstances ; let the state of tl internal organs—more especially of the lungs—be diligently iuquin into ; and if these appear free from tubercular disease, as well as fro