59 REGIMEN. besides, they are supposed, not without reason, to exert a special action on the blood. In consequence of the solvent power wliich they possess over fibrin, tliey may afiect salutarily the abnormal amount of that con- stituent in inflammatory blood ; " and they may prevent or destroy the aggregation of the corpuscles, and consequently their tendency to separate fi-om the fibrin, and to accumulate in the minute vessels." * In this way, for example, the good effects of large and continued doses of niti'e in acute rheumatism may be accounted for ; the excess of fibrin, with tendency to formation of the buffy coat in blood extracted, being peciTharly manifested in that affection. Antiphlogistic Regimen is not the least essential part of the treat- ment. It comprehends, l.—Diet. This is to be given but sparingly, and invariably of a non-nutritious character, so long as the brunt of the attack remains unbroken ; and, even then, return to more generous food must be gradual and cautious. In general, loss of appetite and loathing of food are tolerably prominent during the inflammatory progress ; it is during the period of decline that precaution is necessary, in denying the returning appetite, or deceiving it by unproductive materials. A hearty meal, untimeously indulged in, has often reinduced all the mis- chief. Drink should be bland, simple, and cooling; given often and in small quantities, rather than in copious draughts. Ice, iced water, soda, potash, lime, or hthia water, lemonade or ginger-beer, may be permitted as preferred. Acidulous drinks are to some the most refreshing; and of these it is well to have some variety, as the most palatable is apt to become distasteful after a time. Dilute solutions of nitrate of potass, and of the alkalies combined with vegetable acids, are not only grateful, especially if effervescent, to the parched mouth, but likewise relieve the fevered system by favouring secretion—therefore not unjustly termed Eefri- gerants. And, besides, we have just seen that they may play an im- portant part as correctives of the blood. 2.—Rest of the body, with quietude of mind, is plainly an important indication, and ought to be fulfilled so far as circumstances will allow. Eestlessness and jactitation are symptoms of the constitutional disorder, as also tendency to apprehen- sion, anxiety, and general disquietude of mind ; and consequently are to a certain extent inevitable. The general antiphlogistic management, by removing their cause, is the most effectual means of removing them; but some time is neccessary for this; and, in the meantime, much may be done by many little attentions on the part of the attendants.—3. Air. Wlien it is remembered how essential is a free supply of good air to the maintenance of a healthy state of the blood, and how imperfect aeration leads to obstruction of the capillaries, systemic as well as pulmonary, the necessity, during the progress of the inflammatory disorder, for due ventilation of the sick-chamber, as also of the bedclothes, bedding, and utensils for receiving excreta, becomes very appai'ent. Local Treatment. —To procure as complete rest of the inflaming part as circuni- etances will possibly permit, should be the first care of the surgeon; and • Hewson's Works, edited by Gulliver, Lond., 1846 (Sydenham Society), p. 41.