1272 LEUCOllllIICEA. tinuance aud profuso, it often causes inucli irritation of the labia exter- nally. Sometimes it is complicated witli displacement of tlie womlj, or with chronic inflammatory change, or engorgement and hypertrophy of the whole organ; and these circumstances much retard the progress of cure. All women are liable to such complaints; but the married and child-bearing suffer both most frequently and most severely. In this brief sketch it is expedient to treat of the numerous, morbid, non-malignant states of the cervix together ; more especially when we consider that they cannot in any way be distinguished from each other, without a tactile and visual examination of the implicated parts; and further, that the treatment, in its general features, is similar in all. Passing over with simple mention, the aphthous, herpetic, and other fonns of integumental disease, rarely if ever observed, we notice the simply in- flaming and ulcerated cervix. All the signs of the inflammatory process ate present j but pain and tenderness may not be severe. The part may be more or less indurated; and the degree of swelling varies. Sometimes the cervix acquires considerable bullc, is hard and somewhat nodulated; the nodulation in this case being in the form of masses arranged pucker- like around the os. There may then be some difficulty in diagnosis from cancer; the more especially as the weak, pallid, and cachectic appearance of the patient often appears to favour the notion of malignancy. It happens very rarely, however, that cancer of the uterine neck is actually mistaken for hypertrophy; for the former is generally found, even on a first examination, to be in an advanced state. At the same time, it is to be remembered that chronic inflammatory change with hypertrophy is not unfrequently mistaken for malignant disease; and sometimes even the most experienced find a difficulty in diagnosis, till the result of treat- ment has been ascertained. The following points are distinctive in most cases. In cancer, there is the peculiar cachexy of system; and the morbid product may extend from the cervix more or less over the roof of the vagina, rendering the uterus fixed in the pelvis. There is generally in- tense induration, with irregular nodulation; and if there be ulceration, the indurated points projecting into it are friable under the finger; the ulceration is deep and irregular in form ; and the discharge is frequently foetid, watery, grumous, and sometimes mixed with blood. In inflammatory affection of the cervix, the accompanying ulceration most frequently attacks the posterior lip; and may be of various kinds; simple or healthy, indolent, irritable, or weak. The cervix uteri is also liable to a granular form of inflammatory change. The part is tender and red, having the mucous membrane abraded or superficially ulcerated over a great part or the whole of its surface ; and laears numerous red points. These are the larger papillaJ engorged^and projecting, from being denuded of the thick epithelial layer in which they are naturally buried. Generally, the part is also somewhat enlarged; and frequently, in this case, the vagina is irritated, or more or less inflaming around the cervix. When the ulceration is healthy, and there exists no complication, it is easy to effect a cure, by enjoining rest of the parts, and using any simple detergent or mild astringent lotion. If it has been protracted m duration, or is unhealthy in its character, the lunar caustic may be used