CHAPTER XXX. INJUEIES OF THE SCALP. Bruise of the Scalp. The scalp is especially liable to severity of contusion. It is a part mucli exposed to external injury; it is stretched over dense resisting bone; it is ■ possessed of very considerable vasculaiity; and its arterial branches, being; neither inactive nor minute, are apt to jDart with blood freely when torn. .1 Hence, when external violence is applied, the higher results of contusion J are very apt to follow. The integument may give way; causing a con- ■ tused wound, of greater or less extent, whose margins will slough andll separate, and which will not heal without considerable suppuration, andl a corresponding amount of attendant inflammatory change. Or the skin, I at first unbroken, may slough to a greater or less extent; either imme- diately, from the direct effect of violent contusion; or secondarily, by.j the inflammatory process induced in a part whose vitality had beenij only lowered by the bruise, not annihilated. Or, the integuments re- maining entire, blood is copiously extravasated from ruptured vessels jj breaking up the areolar tissue, and producing a large fluctuating tumoi — sometimes forming rapidly, with tension of the skin, and much paii in the part. Or, subsequently to sanguineous infiltration, the inflamma^] tory process may be lighted up in the implicated texture; inducing sup-t puration of an unfavorable kind, with a considerable amount of consti-ij tutional disturbance, and with a risk of the latter being unfavourabM affected by the suppuration assuming the asthenic, diffuse, and infil-lj tratmg character. The danger of such occurrences must be remembered^ in the prognosis. But the ordinary result of bruise, in this locality, is the formation o::^ a bloody tumour; blood escaping more or less freely from torn vessels and accumulating in the part; while room is made for its receptioi partly by disruption of texture, partly by that which remains entird being pushed aside and condensed. As already stated, the integumenaj is tense or not, accordmg to the rapidity and amount of extravasatioi At first, the indications by touch are uniform throughout the wholJ swelling, all the blood being as yet fluid; and uniform fluctuation i| more or less distinct, with elasticity. Soon, however, the blood in paaJ assumes the solid form; and then the characters of the tumour changd At the circumference, there is a hard, resisting ring, more or less elevateeJ composed of coagulum. In the centre, the part is soft, yielding, fluctuiT ating; the extravasation there remaining fluid, consisting chiefly c| serum, and situated immediately beneath the integument. The cldj occupies the margins. At this period, care is required in examinatiouJ