CHAPTER LXIX. AMPUTATION. The removal of a limb, or part of a limb, is tlie last resource of our art; and ought never to be had recourse to, until it is evident that otlier means either have proved, or must prove, unavailing. The profession have reason to rejoice that necessities for the performance of amputation are much less frequent than in former times ; yet the circumstances are not few—and in all human probability never will be few—in Avhich nothing but the sacrifice of a ■pavt of the body will sufl&ce for the retaining of existence. We are constrained to resort to amputation of a limb; in spreading gangrene, as speedily as possible, if the cause be a local one, if there be a sound space in which to make our incisions, and if the consti- tution be as yet uninvolved in other than the inflammatory process ; in chronic gangi-ene, when the line of separation has been formed, and is advanced ; in tumours which are of a malignant kind, and involve the textures of an extremity so as to preclude the safe and thorough removal of the disease, retaining the limb ; in diseases of the joints, which have baffled our skill, have suppurated, and caused ui'gent hectic, and do not admit of relief by resection ; in cases of recent injury, when it is evident that the parts are so far mutilated as to render recovery impos- sible ; and in cases of attempted preservation of limbs, after injury, when it is plain that further continuance of the attempt must be attended with unwarrantable peril of life. 'Not unfrequently also, a partially recovered limb proves so stiff, useless, and inconvenient, as to urge the possessor to seek its removal; and such operations of " complaisance " are not always to be declined. In the case of injury, amputation is either primary or secondary; the former, when done within twenty-four hours after the injury, before the condition of shock has been induced, or during its progress, or after reaction has set in, yet before the system has become involved in febrile excitement; the latter, when performed after febrile accession has occurred, and when—it may be after some weeks—life is threatened by excessive suppuration, disease of bone, disease of joints, or sloughing of the soft parts. The comparative merit of primary and secondary ampu- tation is still, with some, a disputed point. The question has already been considered. For its decision, a mere comparison of statistical de- tails is obviously insufficient; for in one class are necessarily included all the most severe cases, wliile the other contains many of a very minor character; and, in many instances, amputation is primarily performed, not because there is an open question of choice, but because obviously to amputate is to afford the only, and it may be a slender, chance of life. The two chief objections to the primary operations are :—1. Two