STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. 1052 In the adult, there is the same necessity for removal of the cause, if possible but cure seldom follows so simply. The same attention to replacement is to bo enforced; and a pad may be worn, directly com- pressing the anus, so as to oppose reprotrusion. This pad—shghtly conical in form, so as to fit into the anus—may be apphed by means of the common T bandage; or, what is better, is adapted to a spring, as in the truss for hernia. Astringents are used, the bowels are regulated; and amendment, if not cure, is hoped for. It may be well, perhaps, to procure the daily stool at night; so that afterwards the long recumbency of bed- time may prove favourable, in obviating the tendency to protrusion which is greatest after functional excitement of the part. Often very decided relief is obtained, by wearing a vulcanite plug ; olive-shaped and pedun- culated in the part which lodges within the sphincter, and terminating in a short cross handle, sufficiently large to prevent displacement of the in- strument when inserted into the bowel. Such is the palliative treatment. For a radical cure, other measures are required. One or more of the redundant folds of the mucous mem- brane may be removed, by scissors or ligature ; in the hope that the con- traction of healing may sustain the replaced j)arts in their normal relation. But it is better in most cases, while leaving the bowel intact, to take away the redundant integument externally; hoping that the subsequently puckered cicatrix may efi'ectually support the parts within, and prevent further protrusion. This removal of skin may be by knife or scissors, or by actual cautery. The latter agent is perhaps unnecessarily severe; but, whichever is employed, the immediate pain may be safely abrogated by the use of chloroform. These means failing, another operation has been proposed; an abbreviation of the sphincter. By incision, a portion of this muscle is removed; and then the remainder, having been brought together, and got to adhere, is expected to constitute a more active and effectual guardian of the mucous outlet. The success of this proceeding, however, has yet to be proved. And, in any such operation, especial care must be taken lest the task be overdone; and an unnatural tight- ness of the orifice result. In the. adult, accurate diagnosis is always important. Many a patient, during a long course of years, wears a painful truss for what is supposed to be prolapsus, but is in truth mere looseness of the anal verge, with internal hemorrhoids—remediable, as we have seen, by a very simple operation. Stricture of the Eeetum. Contractions here, as in other mucous canals, are of tliree kinds; spasmodic; organic and simple ; mahgnant. The Spasmodic does not frequently constitute a disease of itself; but is rather an accompaniment of some other affection—as hemorrhoids, fissure, or ulcer of the anus. Its main symptoms are, painful tightness of the part, with difficulty and pain in voiding the fseces. The site of constriction is at the orilice of the bowel; and the immediate cause is spasmodic action of the spliincter muscle. If it be but an attendant of another disease, removal of the latter will ordinarily suffice for cure. In ^the few cases of its single occurrence, treatment consists in rectifying the priniK vife, which will