93 CHRONIC ABSCESS. is little or no surrouuding formation of fibrin, further tlian what consti- tutes the pyogenic membrane; and by this circumstance the extension of that membrane, along with condensation of the surrounding parts, is manifestly favoured. Tlie pyogenic membrane, being more leisurely formed, is more fully developed, more highly organized, and probably possessed of both absorbent and secerning power to a higher degree than in the acute abscess. The pus is thin, its serous portion predominating largely over the globules; and this circumstance, conjoined with the greater efficiency of the lining membrane, renders the contents of a chronic abscess comparatively much more amenable to absorption. We have little hope of curing an acute abscess without evacuation; in the chronic, discussion is not unlikely to prove successful. Sometimes the liquor puris is absorbed, while the solid particles remain in a compact and condensed form. Such an occurrence, for example, is by no means uncommon in the testicle. Chronic abscesses are found to vary, from the smallest size, to cavities capable of holding two or more pints of fluid. When deeply seated, the very indolence of their nature ensures their attainment to huge dimensions, should their progress be unqualified by treatment. In all cases, approach to the surface is slow; for the accumulation of pus is very gradual, and, as already stated, there is comparatively little sur- rounding fibrinous product to hem in the secretion as it does accumu- late—circumstances which render the occurrence of tension and pres- sure all the more improbable. Hence it is characteristic of the collection to enlarge almost equally in all directions, without the tendency to point which is observed in acute abscess. Treaimmt.—^When the abscess is small; stationary, or nearly so ; or of itself shewing signs of recession by absorption j and more especially if so situated as to render the avoidance of deformity by cicatrix extremely desirable—discussion is by all means to be attempted. The general system is to be put in good order, particularly as regards the secretions; the patient is to be denied much liquid of any kind, and enjoined to live sparingly on dry food; and exhalation may be at the same time increased. Tor seeing that the blood must, in its normal state, be more or less serous in character, the frame may be in some degree compelled, as it were, to maintain this essential condition by absorption of its own fluids. The iodide of potassium—or some other preparation of iodine—is administered internally, beginning with small doses; and a direct stimulant to absorption is applied to the part. This last indication may be variously fulfilled. The Emplastrum gummosum, or the E. Hydrargyri, or a plaster composed of equal parts of each, may be applied; or the surface may be lightly and repeatedly blistered. Or the prepara- tions of iodine may be used; in the form either of ointment or of solution. Experience is somewhat adverse to the former, more especially when combined with fiiction, as it usually is ; over-stimulation is apt to occur, and chronic disease may be converted into acute under unfavour- able circumstances. It is better to pencil the part frequently with the ordinary tincture of iodine, or with the following solution : Iodine, a scruple; iodide of potassium, two scruples ; water, an ounce—increased or abated in strength according to circumstances. Usually the skin