TREATMENT OF DEFOEMITY. 553 Treatment of Deformity after Union has taken i^lace. "WTien the union is still " green," the best plan for rectification is to effect a complete breaking up of the callus by main force, so as to admit of readjustment, and the application of means suitable to retention of the broken bone in its proper axis and position. As this is a painful proceeding, and one which the muscles of the limb can combine under the influence of pain very successfully to resist, it is well, before pro- ceeding with it, to place the patient completely under the influence of chloroform, and even to effect division of any tense tendinous or fibrous tissues by tenotomy. In some cases again, this process of rectification can better be effected, gradually, by means of simple wooden splints care- fully adjusted; or, in some cases, by a special apparatus, jointed at the seat of deformity, and acting upon each portion of the broken bone by means of a circular rack moved by an endless screw. In other cases, where a large irregular mass of callus surrounds the site of fracture, resisting our efforts to break up the bone or undo its deformed position, the use of a seton has been recommended. This is passed through the callus, and retained until such a degree of inflammatory effect follows, as shall secure a softening of the bond of union sufficient to admit of gradual rectification by means of an apparatus satisfactorily applied. Where the union has become almost complete, something more is re- quired ; and, short of amputation, which should be reserved for altogether hopeless cases, two plans of procedure offer themselves for our choice. Either to cut down upon the bone at the seat of deformity, and divide it by means of the saw or bone pliers ; or should the mass of new bone be very great, to cut out an angular portion of such size, that when the cut surfaces come flatly in contact with each other, the line of the original axis of the bone shall be restored. After either of these procedures, the limb must be suitably arranged for complete repose, and treated as for compound fracture. The constitutional irritation, and the local results of the inflammatory process following upon the operation, are rarely so severe or so untoward as what occurs in a fracture which was originally compound in its nature. This is' to be accounted for by the compara- tively trifling degree of injury inflicted by the operation upon the vitality of the parts implicated, and upon the system at large ; as also by the degree of condensation of the areolar textures around the bone, due to ■previous chronic irritation, limiting the tendency to extension of the inflammatory process which is now more acutely established.