FEACTUKES OF THE FEMUK. 1309 direct and severe violence, as by falls or heavy blows acting on the trochanter. It differs from the preceding ; in the mode of occurrence, as just stated; in its liability to occur at any age ; in a greater amount of sAvelling, ecchymosis, and pain following—the fleshy textures being more or less extensively implicated; in a greater amount of constitutional sympathy being manifested—the injury being altogether more severe ; ill there being a feeling of enlargement of the trochanter and outer trochanteric region of the bone; in the trochanter appearing more pro- mment, and describing the arc of a larger circle than on the sound side ; in there being usually a greater immediate and a less ultimate amount of shortening and eversion, with a greater amount of power and motion ; and in crepitus being very palpable, only when full extension and consequent disentanglement have been effected—obscure, or altogether wanting, until then. When impaction has not occurred, often the slightest motion causes very distinct crepitus j there being comparatively little retraction of the lower fragment. The degree of shortening may be said to vary from half an inch to an inch and a haK, but is never greater than it appears at first. A more important difference exists, in this fracture being capable of satisfactory union. Hence the value of being able to distinguish between the intra-capsular and extra-capsular forms. • In some cases of extra- capsular fracture, inversion, instead of eversion, of the limb occurs, which is due to the line of fracture extending through the trochanter major ; leaving the anterior portion of this, into which the anterior fibres of the gluteus medius are inserted, alone continuous with the shaft. The best mode of treatment is by application of the long splint. It should extend from a little below the axilla, to six inches beyond the sole of the foot, when the patient is straight and recumbent; and, having been well padded, more especially at the intervals between the points where pressure is likely to be greatest, it is made one with the limb, as it were, either by bandaging, or by preliminary swathing of a broad, linen sheet. Then a soft silk handkerchief is passed beneath the perineum, on the affected side; and has both its ends tied on the upper end of the splint—there being two holes placed there for the purpose. A broad bandage or belt is also applied fii-mly round the pelvis, so as to bind the splint more securely on the limb, and keep the broken surfaces in appo- sition. By many, tightening the perineal band, from time to time, is recommended, that thereby the splint may be forced downwards ; and thus extension of the hmb is attempted to be maintained against the contrac- tion of the muscles. Indeed, in practice, some have such confidence in the powers of extension thus maintained, that they speak of actual elon- gation of the limb being sometimes the result—a result, however, which they admit is apt to disappear so soon as the patient attempts to resume the use of the lower extremities. Various ingenious splints and appa- ratus have been devised by our American brethren, having the extension and counter-extension of the limb as their special aim. The simplest of these splints is probably that of Dr. Kimball of Lowell, Massachusetts, and is the joint invention of himseKand his nephew, Dr. G. K. Sanborn. The appliance for extension—adhesive plaster—was introduced in 1844 at the Pennsylvania Hospital by Dr. E. Wallace of Philadelphia ; was described