MELANOTIC CANCEll. 191 cope, tending to the angular form, and Fig. 75. express our prognosis in the most guarded terms. Perhaps the situa- tion most favourable to non-return, after timeous and skilful operation, is the testicle. Eeproduction occurs either in tlie original site or elsewhere. A medullary tumour having boon removed from a lower hmb, for example, we apprehend return not in the stump alone, nor in the groin, nor in any part of the external siu-face; but are anxious in regard to symptoms of internal miscliief, by formation of medullary masses in the liver, kidneys, or lungs. The internal reproduction is perhaps the most common ; but not unfrequontly, the return is on the surface as well. As already stated, bloody masses and infiltrations, shewn in a section of the original tumour, are declared by experience to be ominous of return. And under whatever cii*cumstance this does take place in the original site, the secondary formation almost invariably shews an aggravation of progress and malignancy; probably in consequence of increase of the cachexy, which the untoward effect of the previous operation has induced. Molluscous tumours of and beneath the skin, occurring in great numbers over the general surface, not unfrequently present all the characters of the medullary formation. Such cases are obviously hope- less. Operation is unwarrantable, and we must content ourselves with palliation. 4. Melakotic Cancer.—The abnormal presence of pigmentary matter of black or brownish colour, in various organs or tissues, is not necessarily connected with malignant disease. A common form in which it occurs, is in the lungs; where it constitutes a species of spurious melanosis, dependent on the in- filtration of carbon into the tissue. With this we have nothing to do. The pig- .c.7r;.::«..;('p;..rju,-.w ment which enters into the formation yM^i^^---■'^rA of tumours is of a different character; it is in some way formed from the blood, like that of the choroid coat of the eye, and, imlike the carbonaceous pigment, is readily decomposed by nitric acid, with the aid of heat. It forms brown- ish or black granules under the micros- of very various size—from the minutest molecule to the size of a blood- corpuscle. When this pigmentary matter occurs in a distinct tumour, and is infiltrated into its cells, we have the disease at present under consideration; which must not be confounded with those dark-coloured deposits which take place in many textures, without tumour, and without any other alteration of nutrition. Even as tumours, melanotic forma- faons are found in the lower animals—more especiaUy the horse—with little if any tendency to malignancy. In man, like other tumours, it is the result of perverted nutrition ; a thorough change of structure. Perhaps its most common nidus is the r.fl'^'^\ ^'""^ "''■^''^ ^'^^^'^ pigment, from a melanotic tumour of the cheek.—Bennett.