1339 DIVISION OF TENDONS. the skin backwards and forwards, the sharp-pointed tenotomy-knife is entered, with its blade held so as to pass between the tibia and the tendon. Having opened the sheath—and the resistance of the bone on the one side, and of the tendon on the other, havmg been felt—the edge of the knife is then turned against the latter, with its point inclining out- wards. The assistant now everts the foot, so as to oppose the deformity due to inAvard rotation; and as the operator withdi-aws the knife with a rapid twitch against tlie tendon, its section will be both felt and heard. The tibialis auticus is divided in front of the ankle, usually from without inwai'ds; but some imnecessarily wary operators advise the performance from within outwards, lest the anlde-joint should suffer. The flexor longus digitorum and longus pollicis are divided where felt tense in the sole of the foot. Sometimes it is expedient to divide the plan- tar fascia also. The peroneus longus and peroneus brevis may be cut tlu'ough above the external malleolus, or near their points of inser- tion ;—the rest, at such points as circumstances may render apparently the most suitable. As a general rule, in such operations, the knife is moved away from, not towards, arteries and nerves. Its edge, and not its mere point, should be employed in making the section; and should be moved with a steady, sharp incision, as the blade of the knife is withdrawn. Pads of lint are applied over the puncture, and secured by a bandage." It is not improbable that, occasionally, reunion of the divided tendon does not take place ; but that a new attachment is formed. Obviously, section should be avoided within thecse ; as, in such a locality, there is but Httle capabiHty of the expected plastic formation. Many varieties of mechanical apparatus are in use; the simplest usually the best. For the Talipes Equinus, and the Talipes Varus—the two most common varieties—the indications are simple, and may be simply executed; flexion of the foot, by acting on the ankle; and re- storation of the normal position of the foot, as regards rotation and abduction, by acting on the foot itself. In slight cases of Talipes Equino-varus, both deformities, viz., of extension and lateral version or rotation, may be rectified at the same time. In more severe examples, the varus should first be attended to ; and for this pui'pose, the tibialis anticus and posticus, and the flexor longus pollicis, longus digitorum, and the plantar fascia, having been divided, a straight piece of tin or wooden splint, tapering from the knee downwards and extending along the outer side of the leg and foot as far as the extremities of the toes, should be daily applied. The rectification of the deformity is effected in the first instance by the roller bandage, and the arrangement of the padding—of lint or cotton wadding—placed on the splint. When in course of time the spine of the tibia and the fijsfc interdigital space are in one straight line, and the foot can easily bo everted considerably beyond that point, the heel may be then brought down by section of the tendo Achillia. The apparatus employed after this should be made of thin plate iron, covered with woollen padding and chamois leather. It consists of a leg- piece, to which is hinged a wing of thin flexible tin, suited to the outline of the calf, and adapted to afford a more extensive hold to the splint in commanding the foot. The leg spUnt extends from the head of the tibia