TUMOURS OF SKIN. 263 tlio ciise of the venereal warts, when small, little vascular, and occurring singly, or scattered over the surface, their destruction may he effected hy careful attention to cleanliness, keeping the parts dry, and hy the applica- tion of a minor caustic—such as sidphate of copper, nitrate of silver, aromatic vinegar, a solution of corrosive suhlimato ; or hy the use of a stimulant astringent, such as dessicated sulphate of iron, or powder of Savine. Sometimes the repeated dusting of the surface with oxide of zinc may sutiice. If the form of the wart ho in aggregate masses, a more summary process of removal may he employed, hy knife, scissors, or ligature. The large venereal warts hleed copiously when cut; but the hemorrhage can easily he checked hy compresses soaked in the solu- tion of the perchloride of iron. By some caustics are preferred. Of these, fluoric acid, monohydrated sulphuric acid, a magma of corrosive sublimate, or a paste of the chloride of zinc, may be used. Fig. 104. Fi"-. 105. Warty formations are frequently of a malignant kind in the aged; and are most commonly situated on the face, as a commencement of Epithehoma. The wart is of an angry and irritable character; and soon degenerates into cancerous ulceration. The remedy is removal by exci- sion of the wart, along with the whole thickness of the skin from which it is developed; and this should be effected at as early a period as possible. The skin is liable to simple Hyjjertrophy; extending over a consider- able surface. The textiu:e becomes rough and open; the rugae and markings are large and broad; and the sebaceous follicles are unusually distinct. Pressure, and the use of iodine, suffice at least to arrest increase of growth; and considerable diminution may even be effected. Should the hulk be great, and prove troublesome, the changed texture may be removed by incision ; either wholly or in part. Being a simple hypertrophy, and not a true tumour, partial removal does not entail Fig. 104. Warts on the penis. Fig. 105. The summit of a papilla from an epidermic gi'owth, the result of a burn. Each papilla, con.<ii.sted externally of numerous epidermic scales distinctly nucleated, compressed together. Internally it was composed of fibrous vascular tissue.— Bennktt.