1345 AMPUTATION. shocks may overpower a patient, who might have rallied successfully from one. To this it is answered, that the operator must choose his time skilfully; not bringing the two shocks into immediate contact, but waiting until the former has wholly passed away; and not operating at all, unless a sufficient rally shall have taken place, or the collapse has been obviated by the employment of suitable means, more especially the use of chloroform. It is seldom that a patient perishes of mere sinking, after amputation. And, besides, by the use of chloroform—an agent which is seldom dispensed with in amputations now-a-days—it is to be remembered that the shock is very much modified, and a positive tolerance of the operation seems to be imparted to the system. 2. It is alleged that a robust state of body—in which the patient may be, at the time of the accident—is less favourable to recovery than the comparatively reduced state which obtains after subsidence of the inflammatory fever. This objection obviously ca,n be removed, by judicious antiphlogistic treatment of the case. Not unfrequently, too, inflammatory fever, and its results, afibrd no opportunity to judge of the expected favourable condition for second- ary operation; the patient dying during the inflammatory period, which is more certain to be severe, destructive, and ill borne in any constitution, when excited by a severe and extensive laceration, than when due to a clean amputation wound. But we would rather refrain from the discussion in this place ; and simply repeat the practical rule, on which the great majority of surgeons are agreed—That, when an injury has been sustained by a limb, of such a character as to render it impossible, in the opinion of the sur- geon, that the part can be retained ; when, in other words, it is obvious that amputation must be performed at some period of the case—it is better to amputate at once, so soon as the system has rallied from the primary shock ; preferring to encounter the minor risk from rapid succes- sion of a second shock, rather than to meet the more perilous invasion of an intense inflammatory range, with its serious consequences to both part and system. In temporarily restraining hemorrhage, during the incisions, the hands of an assistant are usually preferable to any tourniquet; as has already been explained. And pressure is not applied until the knife has begun to penetrate ; in order that no unnecessary loss of blood may be occa- sioned, by venous congestion beneath the site of compression. Another question, scarcely yet arranged, is, as to the comparative merits of the old circular method of operation, and of the more modern operation by flaps. In this part of the country, the latter, for a long period, has been tacitly preferred; recourse to the circular method being quite the exception to the general rule of operating. And the obvious advantages are : more rapid performance ; a cleaner cut; a better imme- diate covering to the end of the bone; and a power of selection, as to what parts shaU constitute the covering. The vessels are cut obliquely, no doubt; but, if the ligatures be applied carefully—as they always ought to be—there is no risk of secondary bleeding on this account. The Circular amputation is conducted as follows :—The patient is arranged comfortably recumbent, on a firm table, of convenient height for the operator; who places himself on the left of the patient, so that 4 R