AMPUTATION OF Till? FOOT. 13GG across by tho pliers, according to circumstances. In disarticulating, tlie position of the communicating artery, between the internal plantar and dorsal artery of the foot, should be iDorne in mind; as when either it or the plantar is wounded, troublesome bleeding is sure to ensue, sometimes defying every effort to secure the orifice by forceps and ligature. In such circumstances, a graduated compress and bandage should be em- ployed. After removal of the diseased part, and arrest of hemorrhage, the flap is brought down, and adjusted to the raw sui-face. To avoid cutting into the sole of the foot, the toe and its metatarsal bone can easily be removed by a straight incision along the dorsum of the foot, bifurcating at the metatarso-phalangeal joint, and encircling the root of the toe at its line of flexure upon the sole. The cicatrix is linear, and corresponds entirely to the dorsum of the foot. The other Metatarsal Bones are liable to the same operations as the analogous bones of the superior extremity. A very useful foot may be left, after removal of even three of the toes with their metatarsal bones, especially when those which remain are the great toe and its fellow. In estimating the extent of incisions required, it is important to re- member the oblique direction of the metatarsal range. Amputations of the Foot. All the toes may require removal at their metatarsal articulations, on account of frost-bite. A transverse incision is made on the dorsal aspect; sloping inwards, so as to make a short anterior flap. Disarticulation is then effected, at each joint; and, the blade of the knife having been laid behind the heads of the phalanges, a suitable flap is made from the plantar aspect. In the case of more extensive disease or injury, similar flaps may be formed—the plantar being made by transfixion ; and then the metatarsal bones are divided by the saw or bone-pliers. Bey's or Lisfranc's Amputation.—The whole metatarsal range may be taken away, leaving the remainder of the foot very useful for progres- sion. Hemorrhage is restrained, by the pressure of an assistant at the ankle—mainly exerted on the posterior tibial. The patient is laid re- cumbent on a table, with the foot projecting over the edge. The surgeon, with his left hand, steadies and commands the toes. On the right foot, the prominence of the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe is felt for ; tlie knife's edge, laid on immediately above this, is carried across the dorsum of the foot in a semilunar direction, terminating at the articulation of the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe with the internal cuneiform bone. This last point can usually be felt in cases where there is no thickening of the parts ; otherwise, its situation corre- sponds to a point midway between the internal malleolus and distal end of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The line of incision is thus oblique, the inner extremity being about three-quarters of an inch anterior to the outer. The short anterior flap, thus indicated, may be dissected up. The spontaneous retraction of the flap usually, however, sufiices to expose the line of articulation. Across this the knife is swept, and should open at once the articulations of the three outer toes, and usually