1292 LIGATUIIE OF THE SUPERFICIAL FEMORAL. to prevent all injury to tlic vein ; which is situated posteriorly, and may, if the vessel is tied higli, Le partly seen bulging out on the inner aspect of the artery. In passing the needle, material assistance will be obtained by holding the areolar tissue, which has been cleared from the arterial coats, stretched transversely by means of catch forceps. Should the vein be wounded, or partially included in the ligature, the obstruction of this vessel, along with the artery, is sure to determine the occurrence of gangrene. A small escape of blood, however, as the needle is being carried round the artery, does not necessarily imply that the vein has been injured, but only that a small nutrient vessel has been torn, perhaps ; and such hemorrhage always ceases when the ligature is tightened. The point usually chosen for deligation is where the vessel is crossed or con- cealed by the sartorius; sufficiently removed from the profunda; and not too near the aneurismal tumour. In performing this operation, the surgeon should always make sure that the tightening of his ligature has a satisfactory^eifect on the tumour ; for there is the same risk of a high division here, as in the case of the humeral artery; and, consequently, two parallel vessels may exist as in Sir C. Bell's well-laiown case. After deligation, a relaxed position of the limb is maintained, for obvious reasons. In performing the operation beneath the crossing of the sartorius, the incision should commence over this muscle, and extend beyond its external lower border, and the same parts are cut through as in the higher operation; the muscle requiring to be drawn inwards by means of a hook. The fascia wiU here be found much stronger than above ; and the long saphenous nerve wiU be seen to the outer side of the artery, which is here more abundantly supplied with an envelope of areolar tissue within its sheath. In most cases, after ligature of the femoral, the collateral circulation becomes established vsith more difficulty than in the obhteration of other arterial trunks for aneurism. Hence, mortification is apt to ensue. In some few cases, however, such a very free circulation eventually occurs, that the symptoms of aneurism return so soon as pulsation in the tibials becomes distinct. In such cases, treatment by flexion, whether previously employed or not, should be had recourse to. On account of secondary hemorrhage in thigh stumps. Ligature of the superficial femoral was at one time frequently employed; unnecessarily, however, as we know now that mere suppuration of a wound may con- stitute no obstacle to tying a vessel bleeding upon its surface. For aneurism of the superficial femoral in its upper part, the Common Femoral may be tied. But this vessel is, for obvious anatomical reasons, not favourably circumstanced for successful deligation; and, in conse- quence, the equally simple and greatly more certain operation, on the external iliac, is to be preferred. In recent wound of the common femoral, however, with or without the formation of false aneurism, the ordinary rules of surgery are to be upheld; the part is cut directly into, and the vessel is secured above and below the wound. The femoral vein, here on the pubic side of the artery, ia carefully avoided.