COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. 605 the result is consequently still more imtoward; and coma is rendered more early, more urgent, and more hopeless, than it otlierwise might have been. The treatment, on the contrary, should be such as to counteract :> chronic inflammatory process; conducted with such care and skill ;i3 the importance of the texture implicated so imperatively demands. Leeches are applied to the temples or occiput; and are repeated, per- haps, once and again. The head is shaved, and counter-irritation by blisters is patiently maintained. A mild course of mercury is given. Hie intestinal and other excretions are attended to ; smart purgation having a Avonderful effect in such cases. Diet is sparing, and most eai-efully regulated. All excitement of both body and mind is avoided. And such treatment must be duly maintained, notwithstanding the patient, or other inexperienced observers, may not scruple to say that its rigour is quite disproportionate to the importance of the case. The skilful surgeon knows the insidious and covert nature of the evil witli Avhich he is called upon to cope ; and is not deceived by appearances. His main difficulty may lie in enforcing the measures which he knows to be essential. It were well that patients were in general as fully convinced, as are the members of the medical profession, of the truth- fulness of the axiom, that " no injury of the head is too shght to be despisedand that whenever any serious concussion has been sustained, the greatest prophylactic caution is expedient, long after the infliction of the injury.* It is needless to expose the unsuitableness of the operation of tre- phining, in all cases of simple concussion; but conditions may arise in consequence of such injuries of the head, where, at a later period, when the inflammatory process has set in, attended by special symptoms to which we shall have afterwards more fully to allude, the use of the tre- phine affords the only chance of saving a patient from imminent peril. Compression of the Brain. It is unnecessary here to consider the question, Whether the sub- stance of the brain is capable of condensation by pressure or not. We know that pressure applied to it, according to its suddenness and inten- sity of application, produces derangement of the functions of that impor- tant texture ; and the consequent train of symptoms, varying in degree, are usually termed those of " compressed brain," or of " compression." In concussion, the whole brain is more or less affected; in compres- sion, a portion only may be acted on. In the one case, the cause of disorder is of temporary application ; in the other, it is of some duration. The symptoms, therefore, may naturally be expected to differ. In con- cnssion, the depressing effect on the heart and general circulation is immediate and prominent; and the patient lies pale, cold, and pulseless. • C( 'It will in general be found very difficult to persuade a person who has had What maybe called only a knock on the pate, to submit to discipline, especially if he "M himself tolerably well. He will be inclined to think that the surgeon is either necessarily apprehensive, or guilty of a much worse fault; and yet, in many in- tl,. S ^^''^y "-'^ "^S^*^*^* single remedy (blood-letting) makes all me aiHerence between safety and fatality. "—Pott, i. 47.