1174 TUBERCULAR ERUPTIONS. ill SO far as tliey are more destructive, resembles that of the first form. The cicatrices left behind present the same generally circular or roimded outline, and are at first of a dark hue; but ultimately they present a seamed appearance, of a dull white colour; and the depressions between these cicatricial bands usually mark the sites of the separate tubercular formations of which the patch was composed. The concomitants of these tubercles are the afiections of the bones, testes, areolar tissue, and internal organs. The ulceration attending upon the tubercular eruption is liable to be mistaken for Lnipus Exedens; but may be distinguished, in that lupus usually exists before puberty, is accompanied by a greater degree of irri- tation, and ordinarily inflicts far less serious injury to the part, even after continuing for years. These tubercles are distinguished from can- cerous aiFections, again, by their softer consistency, the absence of lan- cinating pain, and the integrity of the neighbouring lymphatics. ULCEEOUS. These, appertaining to the secondary period, we have seen, may origi- nate in several of the forms of eruption which we have considered; in the Vesicles, Pustules, Bull«, and Tubercles. Their general characters consist in the more or less circular outKne of their margins, their everted or undermined and serrated edges, their greyish, irregular surface, accom- panied with an unhealthy gummy sanies containing blood and the detritus of the tissues, and usually possessing a foetid disgusting odour. The ulcers are sometimes actively extending, at others stationary; sometimes shewing no inclination to heal, at other times healing at one part and extending at another. There is rarely one sore; usually several. The surrounding tissues are never healthy; but present more or less thick- ening and discoloration. The situation of the sore is usually one where simple, non-constitutional ulcers rarely occur. Sometimes they heal beneath the crusts which form upon their surface; more commonly the crust separates before this occurs. The cicatrix usually forms from the margins towards the centre ; sometimes, however, irregularly, or from the centre towards the margins; and leaves behind more or less defor- mity, proportioned to the depth and extent of the ulceration. Those which form from the existence of a vesicular eruption are ordinarily superficial and equably diffused. Those which accompany the early pustules affect the skin more deeply, are not usually confined to one spot, but diffused over the surface, and leave more or less pitting beliind. Those which originate in the later pustules and bullae are more commonly limited to one part, and are more destructive in their results ; while the tubercular affections usually occur only in one part, are serpiginous in their character, and leave behind considerable deformity from puckering. Treatment of Sypliilitic Cutaneom Affections. "Without doubt this should be essentially constitutional; adapted to relieve the system of the vitiated state which the syphihtic virus lias introduced, and of which these skin eruptions are only symptomatic.