TREATMENT OF NECROSIS. 309 JS'ature's power of detachment is adequate and admirable, but ber power of extrusion is weak and imperfect; and the surgeon, who deliberately imposes on her the latter elfort, is both negligent and unskilful. She may, and often does accomplisli the task ; but only after much suffering by the patient, and exhaustion of his frame; and not until much struc- tural change, perhaps irremediable, has occurred in the part—all unneces- sary, and, by the judicious assistance of the siugeon, timeously afforded, capable of being altogether prevented. Very pretty preparations are to be found in most pathological collections, which should never have graced theii- shelves; sequestra, quite loose, but cooped up within dense and thick ncAV bone—the cause of long continued suppm^ation, growing hectic, and idtimate amputation of the limb. Long before that last event, they should have been cut down upon, taken away; the preparation lost, the limb saved. But perhaps a more common error in practical surgery is, interference Avith the sequestrum before it has become loose. To lay hold of it then, and use violence, after exposure by incision, is certainly to induce a com- bination of evils. The evulsive effort fails; and, consequently, the patient has been put to pain unnecessarily and fruitlessly. By the violence, a fresh ostitis, probably both acute and extensive, is induced; and aggravation of the necrosis is most likely to follow. Also, the loss of blood which attends on such an attempt, is invariably considerable; coming from a wound of soft parts, which are not only unusually vascular, but, besides, unfavourable to natural hemostatics, as formerly explained. And the patient's state of system is generally such, in the advanced stage of necrosis, as to be intolerant of a repetition of such hemorrhages. Therefore, on this last ground alone, it is plain that the operation for removal of a sequestrum should never be undertaken, especially when it is situated in close proximity to a large joint, unless the surgeon be tolerably certain that his effort will then prove successful. During the whole stage of separation between the dead and Kving bone, the wise surgeon is little more than an interested on-looker ; pre- pared to ward off inflammatory re-accession by suitable antiphlogistics, should that threaten to occur; and careful to limit motion, in order to avert fracture or bending of the changing member. From time to time, he may, by his finger or probe, ascertain the rate and extent of progress ; yet using all most gently. Every rudeness of examination must be care- fully eschewed; as being prone not only to interrupt formation of the substitute, but also to extend anew the limits of the disease. In probing, the simultaneous use of two instruments is sometimes advantageous. One probe resting on the end of the sequestrum, a second IS introduced through another cloaca; and by pressing with each alter- nately, looseness of the sequestrum may be made plain, in circumstances otherwise extremely doubtful. So soon as the sequestrum has become loose, the necessary steps are ■taken for its removal. An incision is made through the superimposed soft parts; neither too free, causing unnecessary loss of blood; nor too limited, obstructing the subsequent procedure by want of space. In makmg the incision, tlie best point for attack is about the middle of the secpiestrum. Through the cloaca or cloacoe, the extent and form of the