TREATMENT OF DISLOCATION. 559 abnormal position, and to bring it on a plane with the articulating surface it has left; counter-extension, to steady the latter part, and to admit of extension being satisfactorily effected ; and coaptation, to replace the surlaces in apposition. If the patient be seen immediately after infliction of the injury, still faint, with all his frame prostrate and relaxed, and incapable of tlu-owing any part of Ms muscular system into strong resist- ino' action—reduction may be expected to prove comparatively easy. The sm-^eon is able to cope with the accident single-handed. In the case of the° shoulder, for example, he takes hold of the elbow with his right hand, and gently extends the arm; while, with the fingers of his left hand, he pushes the head of the bone towards the glenoid cavity. After moderate extension, he makes a sudden, combined, jerking movement; and usually succeeds. But when hours and days have passed, the obstacles to reduction are ever on the increase. The muscles are first spasmodically rigid, and then they leisurely adapt themselves to their new position; the track from the original articulating surface, through the lacerated Kgamentous apparatus, is becoming more and more obliterated by adhesion ; and the displaced extremity of the bone is busy accommodating itself to the parts with ■which it is now in contact. Sometimes, the head of the bone merely projects through a narrow fissure of the capsule; and this, tightly em- bracing the bone's neck, becomes agglutinated to it, constituting a most serious obstacle to replacement. Such being the impediments to reduction, the indications towards its attainment become very plain. By gradual yet powerful extension, muscular resistance must be overcome ; by free rotation and movement of the end of the bone, new adhesions are to be broken up. If only a few hours or days have elapsed, extension may be effected by the surgeon himself; or by the dead weight of several ablebodied assistants. But, when the time elapsed is considerable, it is right at once to employ mechanical aid ; making extension by laque and puUeys ; and so employing a less force with more steadiness and precision. A sudden pull and jerk may often succeed in a recent case ; they never can, in one of some duration. In such, suddenness and intensity of violence are never warrantable ; for these are as likely to rupture muscles, arteries, or nerves, as to effect replacement of the bone. The muscular resistance is to be gradually exhausted, by constant and steady extension ■determined, yet not violent. When this has been patiently eifected, free movement of the end of the bone is made, to clear off adventitious hindrances ; and then coaptation is attempted, as in the recent case. It 18 a common error to commence attempts at coaptation at the same time with extension. Only after the muscles have been thoroughly exhausted extending force, indirectly applied, should the surgeon's hand come to decided manipulation of the injured part. Extension by pulleys is made thus :—The patient is usually recum- l)ent, on a mattress on the floor. A broad belt is passed under the penneum, or over the chest—according as it is the upper or lower extre- inity that is injured—and is secured behind the patient to some fixed ponit on the wall or floor; in order that thus counter-extension may be sure, and the patient fixed in his place. And be it remembered, that