577 SUSPENDED ANIMATION. others. The first and last mentioned methods, where compression of the thoracic parietes at the lower part is produced by pressure on the epigas- trium and lower lateral aspect of the thorax, have probably one advan- tage—that a direct fillip is at the same time given to the failing action of the heart, stimulating it to increased effort, while freedom of escape is also given to the blood contained in its right cavities, by the acts of respiration. Tliis stimulation of the heart may be more efficiently pro- duced by means of a galvanic battery ; one pole of which is placed at the nape of the neck, the other over the epigastrium. K an elastic tube is available, formerly it was deemed advantageous to lodge it directly in the larynx ; by passing it along the nostril down to the throat, and through it blowing in air, by bellows or by mouth, and subsequently expelling this again by pressure on the chest. Or, should no larynx tube be at hand, the nozzle of the bellows was recommended to be placed in the nostril. Or, if no bellows could be got, a tube was to be constructed out of a roll of paper, parchment, card, or any similar substance, with a like object in view. When bellows were em- ployed, it was important to bear in mind that it was neither necessary nor advisable to shut the mouth and other nostril; these acting as safety- valves, to prevent excessive insufflation, and injury to the lungs thereby. But where no tube passing into the larynx was employed, the box of the larjTix had to be pressed against the gullet, during use of the bellows ; to prevent inflation of the stomach. For were this filled, descent of the dia- phragm would be prevented, and no air could enter the lungs. Inflation thus effected had to be made gently, so as to avoid all risk or injury to the air-cells; and at proper intervals, so as to imitate the rhythm of natural respiration. But now-a-days such mechanical appliances to attain this end are never resorted to ; the other methods being more truly "ready" for instant application in any emergency, and quite as efiicient, in any instance where this restorative measure can prove availing. The patient having rallied, after-treatment may be required. Con- gestion may take place ; and, to relieve this, it may be thought necessary to abstract blood. This, however, must always be done with caution; seeing that there can be but little tolerance of the remedy, in the yet enfeebled system. The patient should be kept in an atmosphere of moderately-warm temperature, " to compensate for the insufficient genera- tion of animal heat, which results from the impaired state of the func- tions of the brain, whether arising from the influence of a narcotic poison, or from another cause." 3. By Submersion. In drowning, death occurs as in strangulation, by want of aeration of the blood; consequently, in the first place, blood is circulated which is in a condition unfitted to support animal life, and then, sooner or later, its circulation through the minute vessels of the limgs is "Wholly arrested. To this arrest of the pulmonary circulation is due the engorgement of the right side of tlie heart and pulmonary arteries, so constant an effect of death by drowning. " After immersion, a deep ex- piation takes place, by which bubbles of air are expelled from the lungs. ^ Then comes an ineffectual effort to inspire ; but water does not enter, in quantity, instead of air; spasm of the muscles of the larynx seeming to prevent this. In fact the presence of water in the bronchial 2 p