201 SGliOFULA. xisually botli large and prominent; the general expression is heavy and listless; yet not unfrequently the intellectual poAvers are remarkably acute, as well as capable of much and sustained exertion. The upper lip is usually tumid, so are the columna and alae of the nose, and the general character of the fiice is flabby ; the belly inclines to protuberance; and the extremities of the fingers are flatly clubbed, instead of presenting the ordinary tapering form. In 1859 Mr. Jonathan Hutchison pointed out certain characteristics of external aspect which marked hereditary syphilis as a common cause of diseases which till then had been reported strumous or scrofulous. In a recent work he says, " A peculiar physiognomy, of which a coai-se flabby skin, pits and scars on the face and forehead, cicatrices of old fissures at the angles of the mouth, a sunken bridge to the nose, and a set of permanent teeth pecuHar for their smallness, bad colour, and the vertically notched edges of the central upper incisors, are the most striking characters." * The characters of the scrofulous diathesis are accompanied by others, referrible to the internal organs ; and which, though not distinctly morbid, generally indicate the approach of the disease. Digestion is weak and imperfect; and this is indicated, as usual, by abnormal states of the tongue and bowels. The muscles are soft, flabby, and weak; the blood is thin and watery; the general circulation denotes debility, and is liable to oft-recurring derangement j the extremities are cold; and in short there are a greater or less number of the usual indications of want of tone, and general weakness. Added to these signs, there are oft-recurring morbid conditions, which, although not individually of great importance, yet serve collectively to point out the general functional disorder. The mucous membranes are very hable to derangement; there are frequent discharges from the nose, ears, or eyes ; the tonsils become enlarged ; and the air-passages inflame from the slightest causes. The stomach and bowels are more and more disordered; the tongue is generally foul; the cutaneous perspiration is said to be tmduly acid, and loaded with sebaceous matter. AU morbid actions, too, are apt to assume a chronic and obstinate type ; very different from what is observed in the healthy individual. As the disease makes progress, the cervical glands commonly become swoLn; the mesenteric glands also are more or less affected; and tumidity of the abdomen increases. The enlargement of the cervical glands is at first perfectly painless, and without any mark of inflamma- tory change. Afterwards, however, a low form of this attends the pro- gress of the sweUing ; and an abscess is slowly formed, with some degree of redness, pain, and heat of the part. The tumour enlarges and soft'ens, presenting a rounded surface ; not conical, as in the acute abscess. The skm, if not opened with the Imife, soon ulcerates : and a discharge of yeUowish, curdy, semi-fluid matter takes place, which consists of pus mixed with the peculiar matter of tubercle. The ulcer thus formed is slow to heal. Its sui-face, of a yellow or pale-red hue, after a time pro- tluces granulations; tall, few, pale, flabby, lowly organized and vascu- i«v,* ^ Memoir on certain Diseases of the Eye and Ear, consequent on inhented Syphilis. By Jonathan Hutchison, F.R.C.S., London.