TREATMENT OF FALSE JOINT. 552 on the parts, so as to force and retain tliem in accurate re-adjustment • but his system has not come into vogue, and is rather looked on as painful, irksome, and uncertain. Dipffenbach exposed the bone bv incision, drove a peg of ivory into each extremity about half an inch from the line of fracture, and then by Avire firmly and closely connected the two ; expecting that tlie foreign body Avould rouse a plastic chancre which would abundantly suffice for consolidation of the fracture now so accurately retained. Experience has spoken favourably of this prac- tice, so far as the induction of a sufficiency of ostitic change is concerned • formation of new bone being established similar to what takes place in necrosis. But in not a few cases much more than enough has been done in that direction; and even amputation of the acutely suppurated limb has failed to save life. Mr. Burman has employed galvanism as an exciting agent, and with success, in the case of an ununited fracture of the tibia of fourteen weeks' duration.* There were other means at work, however; namely, an improved diet, and constant firm pressure on the fractured ends. To the method by subcutaneous puncture galvanism might prove a powerful auxihary. The simultaneous use of both is not incompatible ; and, in these days of anaesthesia, the repetition which either might require cannot be considered as cruel and objection- able. From neither, conducted with ordinary prudence, can risk of un- toward casualty be feared. Should the method by seton be preferred, a caoutchouc tape, or skein of silk, cotton, or iron wire, is inserted between the ends of the bone, and permitted to remain there for some days, until a sufficient degree of irritation has been excited- On the whole, perhaps, the following statement will express the right sequence of practice. In recent and favoiu'able cases, j)lace the limb in starch bandages, with or without subcutaneous puncture. In more advanced and pronounced, but yet favourable cases, employ subcn-1 taneous puncture, freely, and perhaps with repetition. In the least favourable cases—more especially if these other means have failed—cut out the ends of the bone, using the bone-pliers very fi-eely for this pur- pose ; and should this fail, or the case seem better suited for it, resort may be had to the use of steel or ivory pegs ; but with caution. When non-union is obviously dej^endent on the impaction of a slip of muscle between the fractured ends, or on the presence of a piece of dead bone, or on the lodgment of a foreign body from without, immunity from motion, with attention to the system, after removal of the caus^ usually suffice for cure. Of course in no case is local treatment exclusively to occupy our attention. Constitutional management must never be overlooked; and often it proves of the highest importance. Should cure of the false joint fail, palliation may be obtained, an the part rendered tolerably useful, by the application of a tight, unyield- ing, broad belt, or ferule over the part. In some extreme cases, the state of matters is so inconvenient, and at the same time so manifestly hopeless, by reason of irremediable dis- placement, or loss of substance, as to warrant recourse to amputation. * Monthly Joimial, Feb, 1848, Retrospect, p. 12.