MERCURY. 54 collapse with depression, clearing the stomach, encouraging secretion from the liver, interrupting assimilation, and favouring perspiration ; also as auxiliaries to expectoration, they may prove highly advantageous —as in croup. Remedies of this class are of course inexpedient, when there already exists marked determination of blood to the head ; the effort of vomiting would then be dangerous. On the other hand, they may be expected to prove especially beneficial in those inflammatory affections which are preceded and accompanied by obvious biliary and stomachic derangement. In many cases of erysipelas, for example, there is no better commencement of the treatment than full and free emesis. Mercury.—^The mercurial is often the preferable form of purge at the outset of treatment—calomel or blue pill, followed by jalap, scammony, or colocynth, for example; causing copious exhalation from the intestinal mucous membrane, promoting a free flow of bile, and tending to lower the febrile increase of temperature. But it is not as a purgative that mer- cury is truly antiphlogistic. "We do not desire that it shall pass quickly through, but rather that it should tarry in the primce vice, so that it may be absorbed thence into the system, and lay hold of this, exerting on it a specific effect; the systemic seizure, when complete, being usually indi- cated by foetor of the breath, tenderness of the gums, and rawness of the mouth, which, if the introduction of the mineral be continued, advances to complete sahv^ation. But as it was not the purgation, so is it not the mere salivation wMch we usually desire. Mercury, gradually introduced into the system, seems to exert a special effect on the texture of the part, in regard to the inflammatory cell-proliferation ; perhaps limiting, or sometimes even preventing, this ; most certainly favouring its disappear- ance by absorption. This is what we want; and affection of the gums is not of itself valuable, but only as shewing that impregnation of the system by the mineral is so far advanced as to be equal to the effecting of its truly antiphlogistic results. From its effect on texture, as an " alterative," it is very plain how valuable must be the administration of mercury iu all inflammatory affections of important iaternal organs, whose functions must suffer by any considerable change of structure, however temporary; and also when texture is extremely dehcate—even slight organic change producing much disorder, and hard to be recovered from—as in the choroid. When such parts are inflaming, we give mercury with eagerness ; desirous that its constitutional effect should be both speedy and complete. But he is a sadly thoughtless and reprehensible practitioner, who throws in mercury with a loose and careless hand for inflammatory affections in general— real or supposed ; regardless of the risk thereby encoimtered of hopeless ruin to the system, at no very distant date. The common form of exhibition is calomel; usually combined with opium, in the form of pill; one, two, or at most three grains of the former, with a quarter or half a grain of the latter ; repeated every hour, or every second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, or tenth horn*, according to the haste with which we desire to affect the system. The opium pre- vents the mercury from acting as a purge, and insures its absorption; while itself has a beneficially sedative result. In accordance with a laudable desire to obtain the constitutional effect at the least possible