CROur. 871 by sudden asphyxia is all the inoro likely to occur, if the patient have fallen asleep shortly after the performance of the operation—as often happens. More than one day and niglit may liave been passed in sleep- less anxiety, pain, and distress ; and the relief at once experienced, after the first effects of the tube's introduction have passed away, is apt to lull the relieved sufferer into a deep and unconscious slumber—from which it were hard to be awakened, abruptly, only to perish by suffocation. This risk is greatly diminished by employing a double tracheotomy tube ; the inner one longer than the outer, and so constructed to slip readily within the outer, that the qualified attendant, who must be in constant surveillance, can easily maintain clearance of the tube by removing it from time to time, and carefuUy washing and clearing it out by means of a piece of bandage soaked in water, till its patency has again become complete. This must be carefully attended to until the excessive secre- tion of mucus has diminished, and the power of expectoration been regained. In this affection, then, let tracheotomy be had recourse to, so soon as it is plain that medical treatment has failed to effect timeous resolution. Do not delay, until both lungs and brain have been so far involved, by the persistent dyspnoea and the frequently repeated paroxysms, as to render recovery under any treatment at that stage more than doubtfuL c. Laryngitis Fihrinosa is usually combined with a corresponding morbid state of the trachea—tracheitis fihrinosa—constituting Croup. This inflammatory affection of the larynx is proper to infancy and child- hood, occurring most frequently between the ages of a few months and seven years, more rarely between seven and fourteen, but occasionally met with up to twenty-one years of age. The latter periods, however, may be regarded rather as liable to attacks of oedema glottidis ; and we may very reasonably suspect that often a mistake has been made in including these cases under the name of croup. The disease rarely occurs in well-clothed and carefully-tended children, unless there has been undue exposure of them, as by sitting on damp grass or under trees. A residence in damp, ill-drained, low-lying parts of town or country, and the occurrence of scar- latina, erysipelas, or small-pox, may all be assigned as causes for its access. The symptoms usually come on at night. The child has been put to bed, sleeps soundly for an hour or two, but becomes feverish and flushed, while quick noisy breathing and a tickHng cough disturbs his rest; perhaps the cough becomes noisy and barking, and the sound of the cry or voice hoarse. Sometimes these symptoms again subside in the morning, but the child 18 languid, peevish, fretful, thirsty, and lacking his accustomed appetite; at night the laryngeal cough returns, and the uneasiness which the child suffers seems to proceed from the throat and chest. The breathing hecomes quickened, noisy, and stridulous, the fever increases, and the anguish and oppression of the chest become paroxysmally aggravated, so ^at the child cannot lie, and will sit up or be taken in his nurse's arms. ■Che sound of the voice becomes crowing or hissing in tone, and the cough now possesses a clear ringing sound. The lips and tongue become dry and parched, the eyes watery and staring, the veins of the head and neck bulging, the face puffy and livid, the pulse quick and feeble; tlie chest expands very partially, the lower ribs being usually sucked in with each