56 OPIUM. application, now so beneficial, will surely aggravate the disease and tlie changes of structure to which it tends. Opmm we have already seen to be of use combined with mercury; as an auxiliary towards the constitutional effect of the latter remedy. Its own direct influence is also favoiu-able. But it must not go in the fore- front. Given before loss of blood, or other true antiphlogistics, it further dries up general secretion, seems to increase vascular disorder, and aggra- vates the inflammatory symptoms, both general and local, especially the former; not unfrequently inducing alarming dehrium. Whereas, when occupying a secondary place, by being given at a later period, the seda- tive effect on the circulation is maintained; the general nervous system is soothed ; pain in the inflaming part is assuaged ; and with the combi- nation of mercury, ipecacuanha, or antimony, secretion is not opposed. The patient, previously tossed on a sleepless couch, sinks into a profound slumber, and awakes soothed and refreshed; with a soft, moist skin; and with his troubles, both local and general, wondrously abated. After severe bleeding, we have already seen how a full opiate is of much service, in allaying or altogether preventing nervous reaction. But, when much blood has been lost, the dose of opium, although full, and perhaps often repeated, should always be guarded. Soothing is ■wished, not thorough narcotism. This is particularly true in old people and children. Let it not be supposed that when opium is given by the rectum, a much larger dose is necessary than when administered by the mouth. The dose should be the same ; certainly not greater. Its absorption may be as speedy and complete by the mucous membrane of the lower bowel, as by that of the stomach; perhaps more so ; seeing that, as Dupuytren has observed, the function of digestion may interfere obstructively in the one case, but cannot in the other. It is, of course, assumed that the lower bowel is free from fseculent accumulation, and that the fluid opiate is brought into and retained in direct and general contact with the lining membrane within the sphincter. During inflammatory affections of internal parts, attended with excru- ciating pain—as in peritonitis—opium must be given in larger doses than usual, and oftener repeated : there is a tolerance of the remedy created by the disease : and, besides, such pain must be subdued at all hazards, otherwise it will inevitably exhaust the powers of life. In such cases, it may be given alone; its anodyne effect being the paramount indication. But, for ordinary antiphlogistic purposes, it is combined with mercury, antimony, or other auxiliaries, so as to avoid the disadvantageous tendency to arrested secretion which is otherwise apt to occur. In inflammatory affections of the brain or its envelopes, or when these important parts threaten to become secondarily involved, opium must be either abstained from, or given cautiously in combination; lest it induce determination of blood to the head. If altogether disused, its place may be occupied by conium, wliich has a directly opposite effect in regard to the cranial contents. If employed, let it be combined with antimony; and let it be given watchfully, with the head well raised and kept cool. Such antimonial combination is extremely useful in all cases of cerebral excitement, which we are very anxious to subdue, and