166 THE CARTILAGINOUS TUMOUR. tion is required as in other tumours ; the fingers, aided by an occasional touch of the knife, to liberate the lobules from the pouches in which they are developed, usually sufficing for removal. 6, The Cartilaginous Tumour, or Enchgndrgma, usually occurs in connection with bones ; but cartilage is also found, though more rarely, in tumours of the soft parts, as of the parotid, testicle, etc. They are slow and painless in growth, roundish in form, oftener nodu- lated than lobed; they are firm to the touch, though sometimes obscurely elastic ; and are connected to the surrounding parts by a tough capsule of condensed fibrous tissue. Generally the tumour is single ; yet not seldom they occur in numbers, especially on the hands and Moists. Section discloses cartilaginous matter usually of foetal character— " bluish, or yellowish white, smooth and glistening, close, uniform, with- out appearance of granular or fibrous texture" (Paget)—disposed as a continuous mass, or, more frequently, arranged in small round masses, with intersections of connective tissue. Sometimes portions are found simply softened, sometimes containing a proportion of fibrous matter, sometimes ossified. The microscopic characters resemble those of ordinary transitional or ossifying cartilage. Fig. 51, Fig. 52. Fig. 53. When the tumour is of large size and superficial, the skin may ulcerate and hemorrhage occur ; but the blood usually comes from the subcutaneous veins implicated in the ulceration, not from the mass itself. The inflammatory process may soften and disorganise the interior. And sometimes, though very rarely, malignant meduUary degeneration is said to have been observed. There is but one treatment for such formations ; early removal by the knife. 6, The Calcareous Tumour, comparatively rare, is most frequently found in the face and neck—especially in the former situation, in the vicinity of the parotid gland. In most cases, the stroma of the earthy deposit would seem to be the hypertrophied texture of a lymphatic Fig. 51. Tliin section of the circumference of an enchondroma from the pelvis. ¥icr. 52. Corpuscles from the softened part of the same tumour. Fig. 53. The same after the addition of acetic acid.—Bennett.