PUSTULAR ERUPTIONS. 1170 intensity of the disease, or by the great degree of depression of system which existed in those who suffered from it. At the present day, cer- tainly, the latter condition appears very frequently to determine the sujipurative result. The common site for the commencement of a syphilitic pustular eruption is upon the hairy scalp. Thence it may extend to the face and elsewhere. Sometimes it affects the lower extremities, while the rest of the surface is free. Wlien the eruption occurs upon the limbs alone, it may afford a valuable assistance in the diagnosis of the nature of the disease. We shall see immediately the characters which apper- tain to certain of these pustular eniptions, as they belong to the earlier or the later stages of the syphilitic infection; but we may mention at present, that when they are generally diffused over the surface, they are for the most part connected with the early periods of the infection ; when again they are localized, they usually belong to the later and transitional secondary period.* The pustular eruptions may assume either the phly- zaceous or the psydraaeous form; the former the more usual type. The Phlyzaceous type is represented by Ecthyma ; the Psydraceous by either Impetigo or Acne. Syphilitic Ecthyma is the most common of the pustular eruptions ; but, except in one form, is in reality a rare affection. It may occur upon any part of the surface, from the scalp to the lower extremities; but it is rare to find it generally diffused, being usually confined to one region. An early form of the disease produces the scabs or crusts among the hairs upon the head which is so common a feature of the beginning of the syphUitic infection, when a roseolar or squamous eruption covers the general surface. The commencement of this, as of all other phlyzaceous eruptions, as described by "Willan, consists ia the formation of a dense elevated papule, of a bright red colour, the cuticle of which, within a day or two, becomes elevated by the formation of pus between it and the skin. The pustule, thus rapidly formed, has usually a dark outline of a coppery or almost brown hue, resembling very closely, especially in cachectic cases, the Ecthyma nigrum and cachecticum of some dermatologists. In this form the pustule soon accretes into a scab or crust, of a dark brown colour, and flattened aspect, which has no ten- dency to increase by extension of the underlying ulceration. When this crust is removed, the superficial ulcer speedily heals, and leaves a slight, shallow, but permanent cicatrix, like that of vaccinia. The deep variety of the ecthymatous eruption occurs at a later period in the syphilitic development, generally accompanying the affections of the testicle, and nodes of the bones. It, ia other words, appertains to the transitional class of symptoms, and lies midway between the early secondary and the later tertiary affections. The formation of the pustule follows the same progress as has just been described; but here the crust enlarges, the ulcer beneath being more deeply seated, and having a tendency to extend its limits. The scab which results is there- * A fact which obviously had not escaped the keen observation of Gabriel Fallo- pius, who, writing in the sixteenth century, says—" Wlien the pustules invade the whole body, and when they are developed in the hair and beard, it is a sign that tlie French disease has been contracted within five or six months."