1062 LITIIUllIA. Fig. 321. Urate of ammonia under the microscope—From DoNNK. Earthy pliospliatic dopositR, consisting of phosphoric acid, with hnic magnesia, and ammonia {Pltotiphuria) ; itk. Deposits of a pecuUa)' organic crystalline matter, termed cystin (Qi/stmiir/a) ■ 5th. Deposits of another organic principle, scarcely crystalline, the uric oxide or xantliic oxide of Marcet [Xanthuria). Fibrin, carbonate of lime, and sihca have also been mentioned as ingredients of calculi ; but the deposition of these substances from the urine is extremely rare, and does not appear to have been the result of any peculiar morbid diathesis or tendency, the knowledge of. which can be of any important use to the practitioner. The Lithic or Uric Deposit.—This consists either of the uric acid, or of the urates, tinged with colouring matter; and varies accordingly. 1. The most common is amorphous ; consisting cliiefly of the urate of ammonia : more or less coloured ; of a yellow hue, when mixed with the colouring matter of the urine ; reddish, like brick-dust, when combhied with the purpurate of ammonia ; and when this latter ingredient is in Fig. 321. much abundance, the sediment is of a pink colour. Such urine is un- usually acid, when tested ; is of high density; and has a small relative proportion of aqueous matter. When passed, it is clear; but, on cool- ing, the sediment is deposited more or less abundantly. 2. The crystal- iine ; consisting of uric acid, variously tinged by admixture of colouring matter ; usually of a reddish hue—the crystals resembling particles of cayenne pepper ; and constituting the most ordinary form of gravel, or red sand. Examined under the microscope the amorphous deposit, or brick-dust sediment, appears either in the form of exceedingly minute molecules, sometimes aggregated together, sometimes dispersed over the field; or m that of larger globular masses, semi-opaque, brownish in coloiu*, and sometimes either grouped together or armed with projecting spicula like stalactites. The last form is unusual, and has been considered by some observers as urate of soda. The crystalline deposit of uric acid assumes