OTHER VARIETIES OF OPERATION. 417 Fig. 179. Fig. 180. practical experience of its employment does not however hold out any rrreat encouragement to the operator ; a fatal or an unsatisfactory issue having in all cases, hitherto, followed its performance. In 27 cases 20 died within a short time of the operation; and the remaining seven escaped only with their lives. A modification of Brasdor's operation is usually associated with the name of Wardroj); a mode of treatment not very promising of success, hut rather seeming to contain within itself the elements of failure. Sup- posing aneurism to exist in an arterial trunk, on the cardiac aspect of its bifurcation, it is proposed to tie one of the branches only; and fiom that interference, combined with the partial obstruction of the other branch which the disease is presumed (from pathological inquiry) to have produced, to hope for a favourable result. According to this system, for example, in aneurism of the arterial anonyma, it would be held sufficient to tie either the subclavian (thrice performed, by Wardrop, Dupuytren, Langier) or the common carotid (eight timesjby Evans, Mott, Key, Fergusson, Morrison, Campbell, Hutton, Evans). Here, however, there is a manifest certainty of a collateral branch, and that of very great size, intervening between the tumour and the liga- ture ; a circumstance, as abeady seen, I hostile to success.* Both carotid and I subclavian have been tied either (simultaneously or in succession, with I the view of effecting a more thorough i interference with the circulation I through the aneurism, but, as might I have been anticipated, with an (equally unsatisfactory result. Mr. iWardrop's operation, or a modification of it, has been performed four- (teen times in all. Of these cases twelve died ; one is said to have been I retarded; and one is supposed to have been cured. Temporary ligatures have been proposed; and trial, sufficient to ibhsh their inexpediency, has been made by Travers, Dairymple, etc. niporary application is unequal to efiect, with any certainty, the changes ' eternal and internal to the canal at the deligated point; and the dis- ^ ihance and injury done to the vessel, however short the time of appli- lon, are quite as likely to induce ulceration and hemorrhage, as if the ' '^ligation had been permanent; perhaps more so, inasmuch as, besides ^;nanical interference in the application of the noose, there is added 't which is necessary to effect its removal * Let the reader, however, judge for himself, by considering Mr. Wardrop's own •anient m the Cyclopaedia of Practical Siu-gery, vol. i. pp. 22G-239. ■"'gs- 179, 180, 181. Hunter's, Brasdor's, and Wardrop's operations, contrasted, 2 E