1302 RESECTION 01' TllK UIP-JOlNT. when there is reason to believe tliat the acetabulum is comparatively free from disease ; or, again, when the probe introduced tlirough the sinuses comes into distinct contact with diseased bone ; and especially when this is recognised as lying loose in the cavity of the acetabukun, yet so shut in as to be incapable of spontaneously escaping. In one such case I removed the remains of the head and neck of the femur to reach the exfoliation, which I found to consist of a portion of the osseous tissue of the acetabulum. In connection, however, with this last point, it k well to remember that, after dislocation, the acetabulum may take on a heal- ing action, and, instead of remaining ulcerated, may become occupied by a fibrous tissue. There can be no doubt tliat in gunshot wounds and other similar injuries, involving the head and neck of the femur only, removal of these parts is preferable to amputation of the whole limb ; and may be had recourse to unhesitatingly, with a good prospect of success. 'No decided rules can be laid down to guide the manipulations. The form and extent of the wound will depend, very much, on the nature of the openings which already exist. A straight incision should be preferred if sufficient; but an extension backwards at right angles will perhaps be found necessary. This should be made upon the level of the trochanter. A sufiiciency of the diseased or injured bone must always be removed, and the trochanter major and minor should generally be included in the excised parts; as, in so doing, the muscles inserted into those parts must be divided, and thus the drain afforded for pus is rendered mnch more free and direct. After the operation, treatment consists in keeping the limb in the straight position, by means of a long splint specially constructed for the purpose, with a large aperture corre- sponding to the wound; the continuity of the splint being maintained by a stout metallic hoop attached above and below to the two portions into which the splint is divided. The limb is placed straight, and retained in that position. In the case of an anchylosed hip, the neck of the bone may be divided; with the view of forming a false articulation at the sawn part, and so restoring motion. Success has already attended the experiment. Its reputation for safety and expediency, however, is as yet by no means determined ; while the necessity for its performance is more than doubt- ful ; as in all such cases the required mobihty of the pelvic articulations admits, within a very short time, of a degree of freedom and ease in walking, which no operation diminishing the solidity and length of the limb could ever afford (p. 368). Chronic Rheumatic Arthritis of the Hijp-joint. The chronic changes of form which frequently occur in the hip-joint, have been formerly treated of. By osseous prodxict, and porcellanous change—but especially by interstitial absorption of the head and neclc of the femur, stalactitic formation around the head of the bone, forma- mation of osseous ridges on the margin of the acetabulum, chniinulion of the depth of this, and flattening of the head of the femur, with thick- ening of the capsule, and formation of osseous nodules in its substance —most serious lameness occurs; slowly, but steadily advancing, under