1291 LIGATURE OF THE SUPEKFICIAL FEMORAL. a non-stimulatiug diet, and opiates should bo administered at night to procure sleep, if required. Eecorded facts seem to prove the following conclusions with rcler- enco to compression, direct and indirect:—1, That, in popliteal aneurism, skilful compression of the femoral is often capable of curing the disease, ixnd that with comparative and almost absolute safety to life and limb ; 2, That the time expended in cure is, on an average, not greater than in the treatment by ligature; 3, That failure by compression has not hitherto been found to preclude success by subsequent recourse to deli- g-ation; 4, And that consequently compression, when skilfully employed, being quite safe, and not more tedious than the ligature when it suc- ceeds, should in the great majority of cases be fau'ly tried. The only disadvantage of compression is the care and trouble necessary on the part of the attendant, with irksomeness and sometimes very considerable suffering on the part of the patient. The obvious and great advantage of dehgation, on the other hand, is the facility, simplicity, and economy of time in its execution, with probable exemption from suffering after- wards by the patient, in successful cases. The formidable disadvantage is, its proved risk to hfe and limb.* When ligature of the superficial femoral is determined upon, the operation, as first practised by Mr. Hunter (1785), beneath the crossing of the sartorius, is rarely performed at the present day; the method of Scarpa, at the crossing of the muscle, being preferred, on account of its greater facility and safety. The patient is placed recumbent, with the upper part of the thigh suitably exposed, by bending the knee and laying the limb upon a piUow on its outer side. Having shaved the hollow of the groin, if necessary, the surgeon feels for the pulsation of the vessel at the apex of Scarpa's triangle, where the upper margin of the sartorius crosses the adductor longus. This usually corresponds to a point about four inches below Poupart's ligament. Should the patient's thigh, how- ever, be so thickly clothed with fatty texture as to render the pulsations feeble, and the hollow indistinct, he may be directed slightly to adduct and raise the thigh, so as to make the inner edge of the sartorius salient; and towards this the femoral is traced, by an imaginary line, from the middle of Poupart's ligament. An incision of two or three inches in length is then made, in the course of the vessel; so placed, that its centre may correspond to the point of crossing of the sartorius. The first incision should expose the fascia, and display the fibres of the sar- torius passing downwards and inwards; above this the fascia is opened to the full extent of the wound, and the muscle is drawn outwards by means of a blunt hook • a Httle areolar tissue is then cut through, and the sheath is exposed and freely opened. The arterial coats are now cleared transversely, so as to recognise the outHne of the vessel; and in a longitudinal direction, only so far as to admit of a free passage to the needle. In the external wound, the anterior saphena vein is avoided; in the deep dissection, avoidance of the femoral vein cannot too promi- nently occupy our regard. The needle is passed very cautiously, so as * Fide Tufnell, op. cit. ; and Brit, and For. Med. Chir. Rev., Oct. 1851, p. 4/0. Vide also cases by the author, Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, Jan. 1855, p. 33. Howden, Med. Chirurg. Transac, vol. xxi. p. 318.