1071 FORMATION OF CALCULUS. aUghtly fffitiil. The quantity of urea and of uric acid has generally been found below the average; and it is not improbable, from the chemical relations of cystine, that it is formed at the expense of these physiological products. Cystine contains a largo proportion of sulplinr (2G per cent), and is therefore probably in some way related to the sulphur-extractive wbich is found in normal urine. Pathology has not yet succeeded in throwing any useful light upon tbe circumstances under which the cys- tine diathesis occurs ; the rarity of this deposit proving, fortunately, an obstacle to the extension of our knowledge in that direction. Its occur- rence is occasionally hereditary; and appears to bo little subject to any therapeutic control. The Una or Xanthic Oxide 'Deposit.—This is the rarest of all the m-inary deposits; and was first described by Dr. Marcet, as the consti- tuent of a calculus weighing eight grains. Neither its pathological his- tory, nor its chemical properties and relations, have been so clearly ascertained as to demand notice in a practical work. It has chiefly been discovered in children, in the form of calculus. Dr. Douglas Maclagan, some time since, found in the iirine of a hysterical female traces of what appeared to be uric oxide ; and his investigations led him to regard the substance found in this case as identical with one of the normal colour- ing-matters of the m-ine, precipitated upon a basis of earthy phosphates, •It shewed under the microscope granular laminse, of irregular form, hav- ing the chemical characters described as those of cystine.*' Formation and Varieties of Calcidi. The persistent establishment of any of these deposits renders the patient more or less liable to the formation of calculi, and is therefore justly regarded as a calculous diathesis. A nucleus having formed in some part of the urinary passages, the particles of the prevailing deposit are aggregated around it, sometimes in a homogeneous manner, more generally in layers, which may not unfrequently differ widely in compo- sition. The nucleus may come from within or from without. A foreign substance introduced into the bladder, by the urethra, by wound, or by ulceration, and remaining in that viscus, soon becomes coated by calcu- lous matter, even though previously no tendency to such deposit existed. Barley-corns, straws, beans, portions of bougies, or bullets which have gradually worked their way inwards, may thus prove nuclei; also por- tions of instruments, lint, or other matters, used in operations on the bladder ; or a portion of necrosed bone may find its way, by ulceration and abscess, into the viscus. By far the most common nucleus, however, is provided by the urinary organs themselves. A few particles of uric acid, or of oxalate of lime—for these, the former more especially, are found to be most prone to formation in the kidney—become coherent immediately after secretion; and by such aggregation a nucleus is at once formed, soliciting further addition. This addition may be made at the original site of aggregation, the kidney; more frequently, however, descent takes place into the bladder; and the small renal concretion then becomes the nucleus of a vesical calculus. Or blood, escaped from • Monthly Journal, August 1851, p. 131.