475 TEEATMENT OF INCISED WOUNDS, take place, speedily and effectually, by amalgamation of the granulating surfaces. If it fail, there is merely the trouble of removing or relaxing the retaining plasters ; resuming the treatment by water-dressing. In the healing of all wounds, whether by the first or second inten- tion, the importance of absolute rest of the injured part is very obvious. Without this, the reparative process must be constantly liable to inter- ruption. It may have been most favourably commenced; Nature may seem most anxious to complete it; and yet all her best-intentioned efforts may be frustrated by negligent permission of movement. Motion of the body is often both requisite and allowable, for maintaining the general health, and may thus contribute somewhat to. the cure ; but all movement of the part itself is most prejudicial, and must be guarded against by every means in our power. Muscles must be kept relaxed and quiet; joints must be placed in a comfortable and convenient atti- tude, and retained so. And, to effect this latter object; it may some- times be necessary to apply splints; so arranged as neither to make undue pressure on any injured part, nor interfere with the di'essing and inspection of the wound. "When this is so situated as to be under the bed-clothes, it is, of course, j)rotected by a suitable cradle from their con- tact and pressure. Treatment suitcible to the mode of healing under a Scab or Crust— The principles of such treatment are very simple ; but they are of com- paratively limited application. They need be attempted only in woiuids of shght extent, and in patients of no inflammatory tendency. In all wounds which can be approximated completely, adhesion is preferable; not as forming a more efficient cicatrix, but as less liable to fail, and lapse into suppuration. The manual part of the treatment mainly consists in protecting the raw surface from atmospheric influence. Nature may effect this, by a crust of her own. And we may imitate this incrustation, in various ways; coagulating the juices on the part by a light application of the nitrate of silver ; soaking a piece of lint, little larger than the wound, in the oozing blood, and permitting it to dry and harden on the part; laying on goldbeater's sldn; evaporating collodion on a stroma of lint or charpie ; overlaying the part with a solution of gutta-percha in chloro- form ; or employing tepid water-dressing, and renewing it seldom if at all The collodion forms an admirable thatch ; but it has one objection, namely, causing pain and stimulus in application. Instead, a thick semifluid aqueous solution of gum tragacanth may be used. It is laid gently and uniformly on the raw surface, so as completely to protect it; and if at any portion the envelope threaten to become imperfect, the attendant is directed to effect an immediate repair. The application is productive of no ii-ritation ; and, being translucent, permits a complete survedlance of the part. Atmospheric influence is completely excluded ; ana tlie raw surface would seem to be placed in circumstances somewhat anaiagous to its normal state, as if still invested by the integument, ouia the inflammatory process ensue, notwitlistanding, no harm has en clone; on the contrary, this is likely to prove less intense than it tnerwise would have been ; the gum is loosoued and washed away by