EPITHELIOMA. 186 Fig. 72. the two unite—as in the prolabium. Sometimes it occurs in cicatricial tissue. Its most frequent sites may be said to be the cheeks, lips, tongue, hands, penis, scrotum, and anus. It may begin as a warty elevation; or may early ulcerate. Not seldom it supervenes on warts, or other cutaneous hypertrophy, previously simple. In the occult condition, growth is by no means rapid; but wlien softening and ulceration have taken place, the sore, assuming the ordi- nary characters of cancer, may extend quickly as to botli surface and depth. Often sprouting eminences appear on the surface, and endure for a while; and sometimes even more successful efforts are made at repah, in temjjorary cicatrization of at least a part of the sore—the cicatrix always tlain, vascular, tense, and obviously most fragile. When the ulcer- ation takes fairly to a deep and downward course, tex- ture after textme, bone not excepted, gives way, steadily consumed as by a phage- d£Ena. The lymphatics are early involved, manifesting the ordinary characteristics of cancerous infection, but containing cell-structures of the epithelial type ; yet the disease is not Hable to ex- tension by reproduction in internal and distant parts— so common in scirrlaus and cephaloma. Cachexy, too, is slower in declaring itself; and the whole coui-se and character of the malady are mild and chronic, when con- trasted with those of its fellows. Its origin may often be traced to irritation or injury; the use of a short hot pipe causing it in the lip, the irritation of soot exciting it in the scrotum— for example. What is termed Villous Cancer may be practically considered as little else than a variety of epithelioma, occurring on mucous surfaces, such as of the bladder and intestines. There are, however, structurally two forms of the affection. In one, the so-called villi consist of the fibrous or muscular textures which nor- mally exist beneath the mucous membrane, but which, more or less broken up by the cancerous formations, remain attached, and hang floccu- lently from the ulcerating surface. In the other, dendritic villous pro- cesses, consisting of a delicate investing structureless membrane enclosing crowds of corpuscles—each villus supplied with a gigantic capillary loop— hang like plush from the siirface of the altered mucous surface. In some Fig. 72. Epitlielial caiicor of tlic lii). At the upi)er part, the angular mai'gins rather too formal, as if done by a knife.