TKEATMENT OF STRICTURE. 1215 the stricture, and when, with very great difficulty, the bladder has been relieved by the passage of a very small catheter. In such cir- cumstances, two results are secured by tying in the instrument—re- tention of urine cannot occur Avbile it is present, and dilatation of the canal, with gi-eater disposition to yield to the subsequent use of the bougie, is secured. Eecently, in treatiug stricture by permanent dilatation, various devices have been fallen upon to obtain the easy passage of a larger and larger sized catheter, without withdrawing the original instrument, which remains as a guide. Those are all modifica- tions of Desault's method, by means of the long stylet over which gum- elastic catheters, of various and increasing sizes, were carried securely into the bladder. Of modern instruments, those of Mr. Wakley and of M. ]\Iaisonueuve are best suited to fulfil the object in view. In many cases of strictm-e, with considerable difficulty a bougie of small size is insinuated along the constriction, and carried into the bladder—and this may even be followed up by the passage of instru- ments, one or two sizes larger; b^t no further progress is made j in two days the stricture is precisely where it was; or, perhaps, even with the most judicious management, it is rather more irritable and undilatable than formerly—while either actual retention of urine, or a threatening of it, or severe shiveriug fits followed by fever, may come on after each attempt to pass instruments. In such circumstances, it is manifestly of the greatest importance to get the stricture so opened up, as to save the patient from symptoms which may bode the most serious results, or at all events will defy the most carefully conducted treatment by the bougie, and resent the permanent tying in of a small catheter even for twenty-four hours. These irritable strictures, presenting this tendency to recontraction, have been specially described by Mr. Syme as resilient strictures. He has also shewn that while so obstinate under common methods of treatment, they yield readily to external division. In order to render such division of the stricture both accurate and safe, he has introduced into practice the use of a stricture staft, intended for a guide in the performance of this operation. Tliis steel staff resembles^in its curve an ordinary bougie, of the size of a number 8 or 10. "Within an inch and a half, however, of its curve, it terminates abruptly in a much smaller continuation, which varies from the finest probe-size up to that of a number 3 or 4. This portion of the instrument, and about a quarter of an inch of the thicker part, are grooved deeply upon the back, in the middle line. In operating, the staff must first be passed through the stricture, and carried onwards along the urethra, until the thick portion of the instrument is arrested by the constricted part of the canal. The incision for division of the stricture is made externally tlu-ough the perineum or scrotum, cutting down with a free incision made in the middle line upon the thick extremity of the staff. Having exposed the urethra, the point of the knife is made to seek the groove in the slender part of the instrument behind the site of constriction ; and, with the edge directed forwards, the knife is made to'run along the groove, till its further progress is arrested by the thick portion of the staff. The staff is then carried onwards to enable the surgeon to feel the thick part fairly in the wound. If the urethra is still felt covering it, and resist-