BUllNS AND SCALDS. 520 tho internal organs. The lungs are prone to suffer, Ly inflammatory affection of the broncliial membrane ; and also by engorgement of the pulmonary tissue. Subsequently cffusinn juay occur in the pleui-al cavity. The mucous lining of the duodenum is apt to ulcerate, usually at a little distance below the pylorus. The ulceration is round and limited ; some- times single, sometimes in patches. After a time, contraction and cica- trization may take place; more frequently perforation occurs, and the result is fatal. A third complication is possible ; the brain and its mem- branes, that were congested at first, may become the seat of cerebral softening and serous effusion. This, however, is usually at a later period, and accompanies very frequently symptoms of Pysemia. The inflammatory stage having passed, the symptoms abate; if the sore left be slight, and the progress towards cure satisfactory. Other- wise, hectic sets in; and, in the more extensive and protracted cases, this in its turn gives way to confirmed collapse. The extremes of age— childhood and senility—are more liable to sufier untowardly than ado- lescents and adults ; as can readily be understood. Practically, the injury and its results may be divided into three : stages. 1. That of shock, with internal congestion, followed by reaction,. perfect or imperfect. 2. The inflammatory, with its complications, by affection of the internal organs, 3. The reparative, ending either in . granulation, contraction, and cure, or in wasting supjiuration, hectic, and i collapse—or, it may be, death from pytemic infection, or the induction i of tetanus. The process of cure is uniformly tedious, A portion of the burnt part usually dies ; either immediately, or subsequently, under inflam-- matory excess. This must be detached; and ulceration accordingly! supervenes. On subsidence of this, reparation is begun; at first ener- getically enough; but the effort soon flags, and progress is slow and uncertain. The injury has effectually impaired the vital power of those parts on which the burden of the reproductive efi'ort is thrown; and they are not equal to its efiicient supj)ort, Besides, there is much loss of substance ; the production of new matter to fill the gap, as has been stated, is always very scanty; the healing result is, in consequence, mainly to be effected by extension of the surrounding cutaneous textiu-es produced by contraction of the cicatrix ; and, whenever there is a large ex-, tent of surface to heal in this way, a long time is always required to do it. But, besides the fact that contraction and cicatrization of the sor: produced by burning is always tedious, from the same cause there is als a proneness to produce deformity. For, by contraction of the origin? textures, much displacement in the relations of neighbouring parts i likely to ensue ; all the more, in consequence of such contraction no ceasing on cicatrization being completed, but continuing for some tim afterwards. So much have tlie reproducing parts had their powe' weakened, they not only form little new substance, and leave the grcaf part of the closure to contraction of the original textures ; but the littl new which is produced is imperfectly organized ; and, consequoutl like all similar adventitious structures, it is prone to disajtpoar, or a least to diminisli, by aljsorption. The, peculiarities in tlic licaliug o burns, then, may be shortly stated to be : that they heal slowly, an