418 TREATMENT BY PRESSUUE. Tlifit'Ji and flat Uycdures wore at one time used, to meet tlie false dread of premature division of the vessel's coats ; an event of which experience has shewn tliere is no danger, if the tissue be in a tolerably sound con- dition. Draw a firm round ligature as tiglitly as you may, the inner and middle coats alone yield ; the external remains entire, A greater lisk is that which comes by ulceration or sloughing of the arterial coats, opeinng into a yet patent canal; jilastic change being either absent or imperfect. And such risk is greatly enhanced by flat tapes ; their application not only i entailing extensive separation of the arterial tissue from its surrounding connections, but also rendering it certain that a considerable portion must slough and separate, and that consequently no shght amount of suppu- ration and ulceration—the main danger—shall be inevitable ere the.] foreign substance can be detached. Although the high name of Scarpa ■ was attached to such practice, it need excite no wonder that it has fallen ■ into complete desuetude; as also the plan of interposing compresses, of various kinds, between the artery and ligature. Similar objections exist to exposure of the vessel by incision, andi then, instead of deligation, applying graduated pressure directly to the ^ tissue, by means of Dubois' serre-noeud, or Assalini's compressor. Thei practice had no success, and is obsolete. It has been proposed to extend the principle of subcutaneous punc^ ture to the deligation of arteries ; passing the needle round the vessel, without any preliminary incision. Ey such a mode of procedure there \i obviously no safety for artery, nerve, or vein. Ligatures made of animal substance, as catgut, have been used, ana both ends cut away ; in hope of the noose becoming absorbed. Others of a metallic nature have been similarly employed, with expectation thai they would become encysted and quietly resident; as bullets and othei I metallic substances not unfrequently do, when lodged in the ordinani I tissues. Both forms of hgature, however, have hitherto been regardeiJj by Nature as foreign substances, and, sooner or later, have been extrudeoll by suppuration accordingly. Metallic hgatures, of fine silver or irOMl wire, easily flexible, may be well employed, however, in the same way a 11 those of silk or thread; tying the vessel in a firm knot, cutting off oniil end, leaving the other hanging from the wound, and waiting its extrall sion by the usual process of detachment. The irritation of such ligaturaB being usually less than that occasioned by those of thread or silk, we maifl expect the risk of excessive ulceration to be proportionally diminished IB Treatment by jJ'J'essure. . I In ancient times, the surgeon, when afraid to cut into an aneurL^H and take his chance of arresting the flow of blood, had recourse to du^H and energetic compression of the part, with the hope of cure. The na^H of Guattani is chiefly associated with the practice. Local sloughu^J suppuration, or ulceration, with severe constitutional disturbance, y Avith an unclosed artery and aneurism, proved the most frequent resii Subsequently to the establishment of the Hunterian operation, liowovi its principle has been extended to the mode of treatment by pressur this being applied, not to the tumour itself, nor in its immediate viciiut