OCCLUSION OF THE PUriL. 702 Sometimes it is induced by habitual straining of the eye on small oljjeci —as in microscoiMsts, engravers, watchmakers, etc. Ordiiiary and useful vision is necessarily impaired. The means of cure consist in removal of the cause. In the artificers jiist enumerated, temporary ahstiiioiice from the usual avocations will often suffice to restore the normal state • but in most cases of niyosis produced by straining of tlie eyes, fresh air exercise, and tonics will be found essential to etfect a cure. Tremulous or Floating Iris.—A trembling, or oscillatory movement of the iris, not unfrequently accompanies amaurotic affections; and seems also, in most cases, to be connected with disease of the choroid and softening of the vitreous humour. It is not influenced by treatment; and is chiefly notable as a sufficient contra-indication of operative inter- i ference, in connection with cataract and artificial pupil. Adhesions of the Iris—Synecliice—^have been already considered They may be the result of wound, of corneitis, or of iritis. In synechia anterior, complete, and accompanied with oj^aque cornea, cure is mani- festly hopeless. When incomplete, and the cornea clear, amendment by the formation of an artificial pupil is within our power. When the adhesion is partial and recent, it may sometimes be remedied by mercu- rials, and the instillation of atropine to tear up the adhesion, and preve; the permanent adhesion of the pupillary margin to th.e cornea ; whei however, the synechia is due to prolapse of the iris into a perforati ulcer of the cornea, such measures are useless. Similar treatment wil' avail in synechia jjosterior, when recent and partial. But, when co: plete, it is usually accompanied with opacity of the crystalline capsuls and perhaps of the lens itself; under such circumstances, amendment o: vision can be eff'ected only by an operation directed against both of th sources of obstruction. In such cases, however, the opacity of the caps may only be central, and this should be kept in view in the choice any operative proceeding. Occlusion of the Pupil.—Artificial Pupil. The pupillary aperture may be obstructed in various ways. Eem; ing itself in a normal state, it may be obscured by the cornea which lii become simply opaque, or opaque and staphylomatous. Or, the corai remaining clear, the iris may contract during inflammatory change, am the pupil may become occupied by organized fibrinous product. 0 both iris and cornea may undergo serious structural change; as whe complete synechia anterior takes place in staphyloma. In the lasi mentioned case, restoration of sight is manifestly impossible. But ii the other examples, something may be done by forming an Artijkia Pupil. Before proceeding to any such operation, however, certain circnmi stances are invariably to be taken into consideration. We should satisf ourselves that the adhesions of the iris are irremediable by the inlluenc of mercury and mydi-iatics ; that the opacity of the cornea is permanent that the iris is not affected inflammatorily, and that it retains its fibrou markings ; that the lens exists, and whether it is healtliy or opaque tliat tlie other parts of the visual apparatus—especially the retina a"'