TREATMENT OF STRICTURE. 1211 former event occur, it is a sign that no penetration of the stricture has taken place ; the latter is a token of the instrument's point being lodged in the contracted part. And according to the evidence thus afforded, either a smaller instrument is selected, or the onward pressure is steadily maintained. In the latter case, our chief care is to avoid the use of force, and to exert the steadily maintained pressure not on the sides of the canal, hut on the obstruction in its direct course; and, to assist iji in this, when the stricture is behind the scrotum, the fingers of the left hand supporting the middle of the perineum, or lodgment of the fore- finger in the rectum, are often of use. An obstacle may be felt at the bougie's point, near the neck of the bladder; and yet it may not depend on stricture. The canal may be of its normal calibre throughout; but made tortuous, by unequal enlarge- ment of the lobes of the prostate. In such a case, a flexible instrument is more likely to pass than one of metal; the passage is to be traversed, not forced—"arte, non vi "—and then much assistance is derived from the finger up the rectum. In passing instruments along a healthy urethra, it is well to recollect that there are certain situations in which the folds of the mucous membrane, the direction of the canal, or the awkwardness of the operator, may hitch the point of the instrument, and either lead to the belief that a stricture exists there, or in attempts to overcome the obstruction by force, may lead to rupture of the canal, or the formation of a false passage. These sites, besides the prostatic one already men- tioned, are the lacuna magna of the urethra, situated in its upper wall, a little behind the glans; the junction of the pendulous and scrotal part of the urethra; the sinus of the bulb ; and the membranous portion of the canal where it passes through the triangular ligament. The usual direc- tion given for the avoidance of these sources of fallacy is to keep the in- strument bearing along the floor of the urethra, till within two inches of the verge of the anus; then, supporting the point of the bougie by the fingers pressing upon the perineum, to urge it gently onwards, while the right hand, holding the instrument lightly, is carried downwards be- tween the patient's thighs, describing the arc of a circle. The difficul- ties in the anterior and perineal part of the canal are most apt to occur in the use of gum-elastic instruments. Another obstacle, not connected with the canal, has occasionally caused difficulty in passing a bougie —viz., osseous formation on one or both of the rami of the ossa pubis, or upon their symphysis; the result of injury, or of idiopathic ostitis. It is of rare occurrence. A cautious turning of the instrument's point to a side will probably elude such obstruction. A stricture, at first wholly resistful of the instrument's point, may in a short time yield to it. Instead of attempting at once to penetrate, therefore, if satisfied that the instrument is bearing against the orifice, steady pressure is kept up ; and after a few minutes we may expect such an amount of relaxation and dilatation to take place, as may admit either of the instrument passing completely, or of its becoming lodged in the strictured part. It is not absolutely essential to the cure, that penetration of the stricture should be complete at first; although without this, and the conveyance of the instrument into the bladder, we can have no absolute