512 TETANUS. disorder of tlie cerebral function, occurs, until shortly before death. As in hydrophobia, the patient perishes eitlier by asphyxia, during a spas- modic paroxysm ; or of exhaustion, during a period of remission ; most frequently in the latter mode. It is also possible that death may occur suddenly, from the muscular fibres of the heart having become rigidly contracted. The duration of the disease is seldom beyond a few days, in the acute form. The chronic may continue for more than a fortnight; and then there is usually recovery. The morbid appearances found after death are similar to those in hydrophobia; and, likewise, are far from uniform or satisfactory in their nature. The brain seldom shews aught amiss ; unless it be an unusual amount of serum. The spinal cord usually evinces manifest congestion, both in itself and in its membranes ; more especially at the origins of the nerves; and the amount of serum may be preternaturally and con- siderably increased. The lungs are congested : there is unusual vascu- larity of the air passages, and of the pharynx, oesophagus, and stomach; and sometimes these canals retain a diminished calibre, the spasmodic contraction having not yet ceased in death. The nerves at, and leading from, the injured part, usually shew increased vascularity, enlargement, and other signs of the inflammatory process, either chronic or acute. None of these changes, however, is of such a prominent character as to enable the morbid anatomist to recognise that tetanus had been the cause of death, unless he had been made aAvare of the history of the case. In the trau.matic form, it is in the nerves of the part that inflamma- tory change might be expected to occur, rather than in the spinal cord; for the disease in such case might naturally be regarded as merely an extreme example of Irritability in the whole true spinal system, induced by irritation of some kind or other in some portion of its periphery. The spinal ganglionic centres, no doubt, possess an increased suscepti- bility of response to external impressions ; but this we might imagine to be produced by a degree of vascular change secondary to the peripheral, and altogether less appreciable, and minor in amount and degree. By some, however, a poisoned condition of the blood has been supposed to account for the tension of the spinal system of nervous centres during the existence of the idiopathic form of the disease, and in the traumatic as well. Such a theory in explanation of the facts would not imply the existence of any such excessive source of peripheral irritation as the other view, but only such an hypera^sthetic condition or increased sensi- tiveness of the spinal ganglia, as undoubtedly exists in certain conditions; as, G. g., poisoning by strychnine, which closely simulates the tetanic stat& The poisonous material has by some been supposed to originate in th wound; by others to exist in the unwholesome air, or atmospherio exposure by which the patient is surrounded. No doubt Myelitis, whore we have the inflammatory process in the medulla spinalis inducing symptoms of a tetauic character, is always accompanied by a change of structure in the medullary substance, more or less marked, and always easily appreciable. But this is accompanied by symptoms of an inflammatory kind throughout, and in other respects is altogether ditfercnt from true tetanus. Poisoning by strychnia most closely simulates the disease ; diagnosed,