1368 RESECTION OF THE ANKLE, In cases of injury, frost-bite, or gangrene, implicating the extremity of the metatarsus, it is usually unnecessary to resort to any such fonual operation as that just described ; a dorsal and plantar flap having been mapped out from the sound tissues which remain, they are reflected to such an extent as to enable the bones divided by the saw to be com- pletely invested by a sufficient covering of soft parts. Cho2Mrt's Ojperation.—Amputation may be performed still higher, leaving a useful stump. Disjunction is effected at the articulation be- tween the artragalus and os calcis with the navicular and cuboid bones. All the bones of the foot and tarsus are thus removed, except the astra- galus and calcaneum. The operation is conducted on the same principles as the preceding; a curvilinear incision being made upon the dorsum a little in front of the articulations; and the main flap being obtained from the sole of the foot. The marks for laying on the knife in its dorsal sweep are : the articulation of the navicular bone with the astra- galus—behind the prominence of the navicular bone, in front of the inner ankle ; and the articulation of the cuboid with the os calcis— about midway between the outer ankle and the prominent base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Often, hoAvever, these marks cannot be discerned, on account of swelling. After cicatrization, the stump of the soft parts of the foot is not dis- placed backwards, so as to bring the cicatrix in contact with the ground in walking, as might have been expected ; but the bones undergo a degree of rotation within the stump which directs the articulating surfaces of the OS calcis and astragalus directly downwards, so as to support the whole weight in walking. Thus, in many cases, is produced a tender, useless stump—even accompanied with suppuration—so as to require a second amputation at the ankle to afford the patient a useful limb. Division of the tendo Achillis during cicatrization, as a preventive, or afterwards as a remedy, has not been found sufficient to attain its object. Amputation of the foot—intermediate between the two preceding— may be performed, by disarticulating the cuneiform bones from the navi- cular, and sawing the cuboid bone across at a corresponding point. The general plan of the incisions is the same as in the two preceding cases. Resection of the Ankle. When disease in consequence of gunshot wound or compound frac- ture is limited to the ankle-joint and uj)per part of the tarsus, it is a question whether or not excision of the diseased parts may not be per- formed, leaving the foot. On this principle Mr. Wakley in 1848 removed the calcaneum and astragalus, at the same time sawing off the malleolar surfaces of the tibia and fibula.* Similar operations have been performed by others ; but with an unfortunate result. Idiopathic disease, from its tendency to involve more or less all the bones of the tarsus, can only be efficiently treated by amputation at the ankle-joiut. If the OS calcis, astragalus, and malleoli, are to be removed satisfactorily, the incisions should be as limited as possible, so as to iuterfere with none of the blood-vessels, nerves, and tendons on the inner or anterior * Lancet, No. 1296, p. 5 ; also Guthrie's'CommcntcOiies, p. 108.