634 HERNIA CEREBRI. incased in adventitious cysts—as happens in other textures. 8ucl fortunate patients, however, require ever to be most careful in avoidiu.! all inordinate excitement of the cerebral functions, and of the general circulation; for it has happened, again and again, that—ai'ter years of immunity—a debauch or violent emotion has induced a sudden and fatal coma. The rule of practice then is : That, wliile it is very desirable, at as early a period as possible, to remove foreign substances which have lodged in the brain, in order that we may hope to contend more successfully will, the coming inflammatory process—such removal is not to be attempted nt the expense of further and serious injury to the cerebral tissue. Su< ! additional injury will render the inflammatory process uncontrollubl. and the patient must perish thereby. Leave tlie part undisturbed, an.i trust to general antiphlogistics ; for it is possible that the inflammatoi ■ process may be kept within moderate limits, and the patient savfj Sometimes they make wonderful escapes ; as in the instance of recovti after an iron bar had completely traversed a large portion of the brain When, however, the foreign body has made a transit mthin the craniu; between the dura mater and the bone, as occurred in the experience Baron Larrey, and when both the sensations of the patient, and the pi dent employment of carefully conducted instrumental exploration, imi cate, without the risk of doubt, the site of the foreign body; tht i undoubtedly, either by the use of forceps, or by trephining over the sii of lodgment, the foreign body may readily enough be removed. Th' writer has assisted in removing a ball from the left hemisphere of t" brain, where it had been lodged for more than a month, and where t external wound gave no indication of space sufficient for the passage o a bullet. The operation was undertaken to afford a free egress for pij oozing from the aperture in the cranium; and on removing a circle o bone, including the fracture, a wound of the dura mater was expos- through which a pultaceous mixture of pus and brain substance oo coming from a cavity in the hemisphere, in which lay the bullet, from which it was extracted without difficulty. Hernia Cerebri. By this term is meant protrusion of the cerebral substance thro cranial deficiency. To constitute this morbid state, tliree things usu conspire : deficient space in the cranium ; a corresponding aperture in ti membranes of the brain, by wound, ulceration, or sloughing; and dis ganization of the corresponding portion of cerebral substance by inflamn- tory change. It is most likely to follow on compound and comniinut fractures of the skull, with depression of the fragments, and laceration both brain and membranes." The pouting prominence of brain at fi merely fills the cranial orifice; it then shoots above it; and, in no lo time, it may attain to a considerable size. Now, probably, its n( becomes imj^acted in the cranial aperture, is strangulated there, a sloughs j a fresh protrusion, however, takes place, and the progress is before. Portion after portion of the ujiper part of the brain may be 1 * liigolow; Brit, and For. Kov., Oct. 1850, p. 543.