916 FRACTURE OF THE NECK OF THE SCAPULA. application of a pad, sling, and bandage, with the same position of the arm as for fractured clavicle. Fradure of the NecJc of the Scapula. The occurrence of such an accident as fracture through the anatomi- cal neck of the scapula, i e., separation of the glenoid cavity from the coracoid process and body of the bone, is doubted by most surgical autho- rities ; but a specimen obtained from a patient Avho died in hospital under Mr. Spcnce's care proves that such a lesion may occur. The specimen however is probably unique. Sometimes fracture passes through the surgical neck of the scapula; i. e., including the glenoid cavity and coracoid process in the detached fragment; more frequently, the glenoid cavity is fissured and broken up. This fracture is apparently, in all cases, a complication of dislocation of the head of the humerus, in either the sub-coracoid or the intra-coracoid I position of Malgaigne. The detached portion of the scapula is retained I in close contact with the head of the humerus ; and both are displaced for- • wards beneath the coracoid, by the action of the subscapularis and pector- • alis major, and of the other muscles connected with the upper part of the ' humerus. The appearances are those of dislocation; and it is not tiU the dislocation has been reduced that, by the impossibility of keeping the head of the humerus in its place, the full extent of the injury has been recog- nised. In fractures through the supra-scapular notch, when the hgament wliich converts the notch into a foramen, and the coraco-clavicular Mga- ments are torn, there will be well marked flattening of the shoulder, palpable prominence of the acromion, and vacancy beneath it; the limb will be lengthened, the head of the bone will be felt in the axiUa, and no crepitus can be experienced until the head of the bone is elevated to its normal level, as is effected in fracture with the shghtest effort—a thing very unusual, if not actually impracticable, in dislocation. Then crepitus will be plainly felt on rotating the arm with one hand, whUe with the fingers and thumb of the other pressure is made deep in j the axilla, where the mobihty of the coracoid process will be recognised; then, too, flattening of the shoulder is made to disappear ; but, on let- < ting the arm hang by its own weight, displacement and deformity are i reproduced. In treatment, a pad, a sbng, and a bandage, as in fracture i of the clavicle, are to be employed. It should be remembered, in regard j to diagnosis of injuries in the neighbourhood of the shoulder-joint, that fracture of the neck of the scapula has frequently been supposed to have taken place, when dissection has she^vn that fracture of a portion of the margin of the glenoid fossa, or of the anatomical or surgical neck of the humerus, has constituted the real injury. Fractures of the Neclc of the Humerus. Jij 1. Fracture at the Anatomical Neclc.—Occasionally the bone gn'*?-^ way at this point, but not so frequently as below the tubercles. ^ I'l^^ injury is the result of direct violence ; and is intrascapular. Ihcro is ^ little displacement of the shaft of the bone at the seat of fracture, itbemgj