771 CANCRUM ORIS. slight curve outwards and upwards, to / and (j. The flaps a h df and c/Tt'^/wero next detached from their subjacent connections, and raised upwards, so that the edges a h and c d came into a horizontal line ; while those represented by h d and h e met together in a vertical direc- tion, and the lateral extensions to / and g allowed sufficient freedom to prevent any puckering or overstraining. The respective surfaces were lastly retained in contact by the twisted and interrupted suture; four pomts of the former being inserted in the middle line from the lip downwards, and the same number of the latter in the curved portion on each side. The wound then presented the appearance shown by Fig. 278. It healed entirely by the first intention." Should a restoration of only one side of the Hp be required, this plan will be found to answer admir - ably, the ijicisions being of course confined to that side alone. Gancrum Oris. This is an example of Sloughing Phagedasna. It originates in the mucous membrane of the lip or cheek, and extends sometimes both rapidly and far, presenting the usual characters of that class of sore. It is almost exclusively met with in the ill-fed, ill-clothed, and ill-housed children of the poor, in densely-populated towns. But in any child of weakly habit it may be induced, by imprudent mercuriaHsm. The constitution sympathizes greatly; in the form of irritative fever, tending to the typhoid type. Treatment consists in amending the outward condition of the patient, if possible, by change of air, ventilation, etc.; rectifying the primte vise; studiously avoiding all mercurial medicines; carrying out the active local treatment suitable to tliis form of sore; and administering internally the chlorate of potass—found to be a very appropriate alterative, in the dose of from one scruple to two scruples in the course of twelve hours. Iron also, and the liquor chlorinei, adminis- tered internally—and the latter also applied to the part, either in the concentrated form, or as a wash, when sufficiently dilute—will be found very advantageous. When the case is seen at its commencement, the appHcation of strong nitric acid, as a caustic, to the sore on the inside of the mouth, will usually check its progress. This manipulation must of course be effected while the patient is under chloroform, to secure accuracy and completeness of application. In the worst form, nourish- ment, tonics, and stimuli, are imperiously demanded, to prevent sinking. And if the patient suiwive, the loss of substance will probably be such as can be remedied only by an autoplastic operation in after life. Cheiloplastics. When the lip has been lost, either entirely, or in its greater part, in a patient otherwise of tolerable health, and neither adolescent nor far advanced in years, restoration by a plastic operation may be nndertaken. ■The part may have been destroyed by wound, sloughing, or intractable iJlceration. In the last mentioned case, we must be very careful not to ttempt the engrafting of a substitute, until all ulcerative tendency has or some time wholly ceased—for very obvious reasons. After removal