979 HYPERTEOPIIY OF THE MAMMA. duo to menstrual irregularity, or external injury; and tlio whole of both gltuids, or only a part of one, may be affected. Middle aged, and un- married or childless women, are most liable to suffer. The swelHng is more diffuse than any form of genuine tumour ; and is little painful, even on manipulation. When the gland is flattened out upon the pec- toral, it feels as if composed of numerous small granules ; while when manipulated between the fingers, it may closely simulate the characters of a cancerous affection. The age and appearance of the patient, the burning character of the uneasiness which attends upon it, if pain be present at all, the absence of the hardness of true scirrhus, and the satisfactory result of treatment, will serve to characterize the simple nature of this affection. Treatment consists, locally, in leeching if much pain is present, followed by warm fomentation, and thereafter by the use of discutients ; while in other cases, pressure and support, by means of a lead, or gum and mercurial, plaster, should be employed from the first. Constitutionally, attention should be given to the general health, to the state of the digestive organs, and to the uterine functions; afterwards saline alteratives, iron, and bitter tonics, may be advantageously emplo3''ed. Hypertrophy. The mamma is liable to hypertrophy at the period of puberty— usually with an unsatisfactory condition of the menstrual secretion—and also in the early months of pregnancy. In the former instance, the excitement wliich attends upon the development of the sexual organs sometimes produces a state resembling nymphomania. The gland or glands become sometimes not only enlarged, but at the same time hard and painful. When abnormal menstruation is the cause of the undue amount of development, this may usually be got rid of by attention to the general health and to the uterine functions—aided, if need be, locally, by gentle leeching, followed by discussives. Of these latter, none are so effectual, locally, as pressure; and this is very conveniently applied by means of the hydrostatic apparatus of Dr. Arnott. In the pregnant condition, the attendant uneasiness should be palliated by the use of chloroform, or other sedative liniment, if the patient complains much of its continuance. Partial Hypertrophy. A portion of the gland becomes hypertrophied, with ultimate change of structure—yet simple ; and enlargement of the lobules takes place usually from the outward surface, constituting a soft unequal tumour. It is peculiar to the young adult; seldom if ever appearing after thirty years of age; and is almost always connected with disorder of the uterine system. Treatment is the same as for general hypertrophy. Marriage, followed by pregnancy and suclding, sometimes proves a suc- cessful means of cure. The tumour, though originally most simple, is liable to degeneration. Consequently, when ordinary disoussive means have failed, after due trial, it should bo regarded as other tumours not amenable to discussion. " Common snakes are killed, because vipers are dangerous."