TKEATMENT OF CHRONIC ABSCESS. 95 treating point, so as to shut up the wound, and effectually prevent the admission of aii'. The wound's orifice is then covered with simple and tenacious di-essing. Nothing is better than a small portion of porous Imt, saturated in collodion, which is made to dry rapidly; and which, when dried, forms a protecting crust, at once adherent and impermeable. The track L likely to close by the first intention. With the view of preventing the admission of air, it will be prudent, in most cases, to withdi'awlihe canula, while the pus is still flowing freely; leaving the cavity of the abscess but partially evacuated. It is during the saltatory interrupted gouts, at the end of complete abstraction, that air is so apt to enter. It has been proposed, iu order to make the procedure more certain, to perform such manipulations under water, or to withdi'aw the matter with a suction syringe; but due attention to aU the steps of the operation, as just described, will render all other precaution quite unne- cessary. While the contents of the abscess are being gradually removed, moderate and uniform compression should be applied to the part; and, after healing of the wound, this external support should be for some time continued. The precaution is as necessary as in tapping for ascites. If it be neglected, in the case of a large abscess, serious internal hemorrhage, by giving way of venous or capillary coats in the walls of the sac, may occur; or the admixture of blood, acting as a foreign body, may kindle the inflammatory process which we are so anxious to avoid. By such pressure, also, centripetal contraction of the surrounding parts, along with shrinking of the pyogenic membrane, is favoured; and purulent accumulation is thus vitally as well as mechanically retarded. When reaccumulation has occurred, we do not wait for any approach to the former dimensions; but at an early period repeat the valvular tapping, at a different point, or at the same—should that seem preferable. One or two repetitions may be required, ere the disease is overcome. But, on the other hand, after even a single performance, especially, ac- cording to Yelpeau, if tincture of iodine has been injected into the sac, the cavity may have wholly contracted, and absorption may have removed the remaining component parts of the abscess—solid as well as fluid ; or the abscess may have so far diminished in size, as to render recourse to the ordinary treatment, by direct incision, both safe and suitable. Should the valvular mode fail; that is to say, should inflammatory mischief supervene, instant transition must be made to the other mode of procedure. A free and direct incision must be made into the abscess, so as at once to evacuate all the contents. The subsequent inflammatory accession wiU probably be severe, and perilous to the system; yet it is to be unhesitatingly encountered, as the less of two evils. For were closure of the oblique wound maintained under such circumstances, the constitution would be certain to sufi'er to a much greater extent. A bad kind of purulent fluid is formed j the general contents of the abscess undergo chemical as well as vital change, in consequence of the presence of atmospheric air; and if such matter be kept pent up, absorption of noxious material, both in the gaseous and fluid form, is inevitable, inducing a grave amount of irritative fever, probably tending towards a typhoid result.