499 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. collapse, may take place from within thirty-six hours to ten days after the local invasion. The hands, being the parts most liable to be acted on by the delete- rious matter, are the most frequent seat of the disorder. The persons most commonly affected are butchers, pig-stickers, farriers, tanners, cur- riers, and wool-pickers, and others whose occupation brings them into contact with animals, or animal remains. The indications of treatment are in the early stage the same as for dissection punctures, viz., to arrest the action of the putrid virus, and, at a later period, to avert or diminish the constitutional result. The part is to be destroyed, at as early a period as possible, by an escharotic. The iiiti-ate of silver may suffice at the very outset; but when the condition of a cai-buncular boil is developed, either nitric acid or the potassa fusa will prove more suitable. Separation of the slough is watched ; and should the subjacent parts seem still unsatisfactory, the caustic should, without delay, be freely reapplied. When phagedasna has commenced, and is extensive or complicated with rapid sloughing, iron lotion, or a solution of the permanganate of potash and iron, may be advantageously applied subsequently to the use of the caustic. If the disease is checked in the early stage, constitutional remedies will not be needed ; if, however, irri- tative fever have set in, tonics, iron, quinine, ammonia, and stimuli, regulated by circumstances, should be administered. YI. Gunshot Wounds. This term is applied to injuries inflicted by musket, rifle, pistol, or camion shot, by splinters on board of ship, by stones in garrison, and by ihe bursting of shells, etc. They are always more or less of the contused and lacerated character; bUowed by sloughing and suppuration ; and, as a rule, never healing but by the second intention. The sloughing is in part an immediate result ; partly secondary, from consequent inflammatory accession, as in other con- tusions. Hemorrhage is seldom sudden and great, unless a lai-ge artery be directly implicated. Yet, gunshot injury being generally extensive, and irteries of some considerable size consequently certain to be more or less wounded, danger is not slight from even direct loss of blood. Often, from the punctured form of the wound which the smaller missiles inflict, little blood may flow externally, while a fatal hemorrhage is advancing in the mtenor. The extent of injury is very various. A ball may merely jraze the part, scarcely inflicting a flesh bruise ; or it may impinge, so as to fracture bone, without division of the integument. It may enter a part, and lodge; or it may effect complete perforation. A limb may be earned away, as if by a rude amputation ; or it may be pounded almost to a jelly, yet remain continuous with the living trunk. The cannon 5all seldom lodges. Eound shot have been found imbedded in the glutei, or even in less fleshy parts ; but the occurrence is rare. Hennen mentions a case of this kind, where a 12 lb. shot lodged in the thigh officer, who was carried wounded from the field to camp ; and its presence was only detected on post-mortem examination. Lodgment of