LIGATURE OF THE SUBCLAVIAN. 893 the upper border of the clavicle, but because in most instances the needle can be most easily carried round tlio vessel in this direction. Eofore securing the noose, pressure should be made by the finger on the included texture, so as to make sure that it is the artery, and not one of the cords of the brachial plexus which has been taken up. In making the dissec- tion, near the clavicle, care must be taken to cut, not behind that bone, as if the axilla were the direction, but perpendicularly backwards towards the vertebra. Care must also be taken to avoid cutting the transversalis humeri or transversalis colli arteries and veins. The arteries, if cut, prove troublesome by hemorrhage; and, besides, these vessels are important as a means of collateral circulation after obstruction of the main trunk. In the great depth which has sometimes to be encountered in this situation, assistance may be derived from one or other of the auxiliary needles which have been invented; but it has so happened, hitherto, that the ordinary instrument, in skilful hands, has been found quite sufficient. In all cases, however, difficulty is to be contemplated when the neck is short, the shoulders square instead of sloping, the patient a female or fat; and in the dissection allowance must always be made for the increased depth of the vessel's site, resulting from displacement of the shoulder upwards by the axillary tumour. To secure the middle third, a plan of incision similar to that just described will suffice. The fibres of the scalenus are cautiously cut through so as to avoid injury of the phrenic nerve, which crosses the muscle above, and here lies to the inner margin ; and the ligature i.s applied with equal caution, to avoid injury to the arterial branches of this part of the vessel. Should these be seen coming off from the vessel, however, their deligation would of coui'se prevent the current of blood continuing to flow past the point of ligature, and thus serve to diminish the risk of secondary hemorrhage. To expose the interned third, on the right side, let an incision be made a little above the clavicle, more anteriorly than in the former ope- rations ; and into this a second incision is made to fall, along the inner border of the sterno-mastoid. The sternal attachment of this muscle is then divided, and turned aside, outwards. The sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyroid muscles, having been exposed, are divided cautiously from their outer border, and displaced forwards. The lower pa,rt of the carotid may then come into view ; this is traced downwards until the subclavian is reached; and this vessel is to be secured as near as possible to the origin of the vertebral, so as to afford space enough between the ligature and the origin of the carotid. The textures to be avoided are the par vagum, and its recurrent branch, the cardiac branches of the sympathetic, the pleura, and the vein. The needle is passed from below upwards, to avoid woimding the pleura and right vena innominata. The operation is one of gi-eat difficulty, and has never been followed by a successful issue. The varieties of distribution to which the arteries of the neck are liable, bear an important relation to the operations just described, and should be remembered and calculated upon by the surgeon.* * Vide QuAiK on the Arteries, with special reference to this subject. For tlio statisties ofligaturo of the subclavian, see Nonnis, American Journal of Med. Science, J"lyl845.