VARIETIES OF HYDROCELE. 123G Spermatozoa are soinotiiiics observeil in fluid withdrawn from hydro- cele ; and such fluid is usually of a milky appearance. It seems uncer- tain whether these have escaped from an accidental wound or giving way of the tubular structure, either of the testicle or of the epididymis ; or whether the cyst, from which they are derived, has been formed by dila- tation of a part of the tubular structure—as takes place in lacteal tumour of the breast, and in ranula. Whatever their origin, their presence is not found to contra-indicate the ordinary cure by injection. Hydrocele and hernia may co-exist; and, as the former enlarges, the cord and abdominal aperture may come to be so occupied and compressed as to prevent hernial descent. A hydrocele, thus enacting the part of a truss, need not be interfered with, unless productive of much incon- venience by its weight and bulk. II. Hydrocele of the Cord.—Tliis may be either diffuse or encysted. The Diffuse form is comparatively rare. A serous fluid accumulates in the areolar tissue of the cord, and is enclosed in a distinct sheath; this again is covered by the cremasteric expansion. The swelling is seldom of large size; uniform, and somewhat pyramidal; of slow formation.; and not attended with any considerable uneasiness. The base rests on the point where the spermatic vessels join the testicle, and is separated from the tunica vaginalis by a dense septum ; hence, the testicle is felt, distinct, in its ordinary site. If the abdominal aperture be not en- croached upon, there can be no difficulty in diagnosis ; but, when the swelling extends within this, it is apt to be mistaken for omental hernia. The chief points of difl'erence are, the completeness in reduction of the hernia, the clearness of the cord after reduction, and the impulse given upon coughing ; in the hydrocele, also, fluctuation is in general tolerably distinct. The fluid has been found reducible within the abdomen, but not into the abdominal cavity; passing up along the spermatic cord— probably in its areolar tissue—and, when past the abdominal ring, form- ing a distinct tumour in the abdominal parietes. In some cases a large cyst exists within the abdominal cavity, from which an offshoot, in the form of a finger-like process, extends down the inguinal canal, and may protrude at the external abdominal ring when the patient stands erect or coughs. Thus closely simulating a hernia, its true character may easily enough be mistaken by one not conversant with the peculiar sensation on handling which this form of hydrocele presents. Unless the swelling prove large and inconvenient, it need not be interfered with. The best mode of cure, probably, is acupuncture, aided by local discutients. The punctures are made at the lower part of the tumour, and need not be numerous ; for the fluid readily escapes from space to space ; and, not unfrequently, these are broken down into larger compartments. Encysted hydrocele of the cord is the more common variety. The serous fluid is contained within a distinct cyst; sometimes of adven- titious formation ; sometime? formed of an unobliterated portion of the vaginal process of peritoneum. Growth is slow and painless. The tumour is circumscribed, oval, tense, and fluctuating; often plainly translucent; always movable on the cord. The testis is felt distinctly separata And no difficulty in diagnosis exists, unless, as sometimes happens, the swell-