DISLOCATION OF THE SHOULDER. 935 endeavoiiring at tho saiiio time to raise the head of the bone by forcing up tlio knee, and, as the extonsi(m is relaxed, by depressing tlie elbow. By extension parallel to the axis of the hodij.—Thus we may succeed, single-handed, in recent or otherwise favourable cases; and, when chlo- roform is administered, this method will generally be found most useful. The patient is laid recumbent; and the surgeon places himself, sitting, by his side. Talcing hold of the hand or wrist of the injured limb, and, having taken off his own boot, the surgeon places bis beel in the axilla, on the head of the bone; and as be makes extension by pulling towards him, he effects counter-extension by tbe pressure of the heel, while at the same time be applies direct coaptative force, by carrying the arm across the chest over the fulcrimi afibrded by the foot. Or, instead of pulling by the wrist, a laque may be fastened above the elbow; by a strap or towel attached to which, and passed behind the surgeon's back, extension may be made; leaving the forearm free for rotation, if that seems requisite. Care must be taken, however, that the heel's force is neither excessive, nor unduly directed; for it has happened that, failing to reduce a dislo- cated humerus, the operator has caused fracture of the ribs. Eupture of the axillary artery, also, with subsequent formation of false aneurism, has been caused by the heel—booted, and used rashly. Failing with the heel, the strap for producing counter-extension is placed in the axilla, and extension made steadily with pulleys, with such rotation and mani- pulation as seem necessary. In imitation of the fulcrum of the heel occupying the axilla, and leaving its border free, Mr. Skey employs a large iron knob, well padded with leather, and large enough to occupy the armpit. From this, two strong straight branches extend laterally, to which the counter-extension straps fastened to a staple are attached. A large worsted ball fastened to a stout iron bar may be employed for the same purpose. By extension upwards {Malqaigne). — The acromion and chest are steadied, while the arm is raised above the head ; and extension is made in a direction upwards, with the further assistance of coaptative eflfoi'ts directed against the head of the bone. This may be effected by means of pulleys, the counter-extension strap being placed over the acromial 'part of the shoulder. Should these not be at hand, the surgeon, sitting with his foot placed over the acromion, raises the arm and extends it up- wards, while he pushes downwards and steadies the shoulder—the heel, if need be, being placed over the relaxed deltoid between the humerus and the acromion, so as to form a larger fulcrum for the extrication of the head of the bone from its displaced position. It is expected, how- ever, that these latter proceedings may not be required, the bone slip- ping into its place during the upward movement. In the subclavicular form of the dislocation forwards, the extending force is to be made downwards and backwards, in a line with the body ; not in a rectangular direction ; in order to avoid the resistance of the ^racoid process. Ecduction in cases of dislocation backwards, may be effected very simply, by merely elevating the arm, and carrying tho band behmd the head. Failing this, the ordinary means are to'bo employed, aa for cUslocation downwards.