1355 METACAKPAL AMPUTATION. In removing two or more fingers at the metacarpo-phalangcal articu- lation, one incision should correspond to the line of flexure of the fingers upon the palm, and the dorsal should extend equally far forwards, and cross about the middle of the proximal phalanx. Disarticulation is readily effected from the palm after dividing the flexor tendons, and the heads of the bones are separately or collectively dissected out of the postei-ior flap. If all the fingers require to be amputated at once, the palmar flap may be formed by transfixion; disarticxilation effected, the knife is applied behind the phalanges and carried outwards and back- wards. Amputation of the Metacarpal Bones along Avith the fingers, in whole or in part, is sometimes required ; in consequence of disease affecting one or more of them. The incisions vary, necessarily, according to the ex- tent of the disease, and the site of the openings already existing; but should always be made upon the dorsum of the hand, except in the case of the fore and little fingers when the mere head of the metacarpal bone reqiiires removal. In such circumstances the plan of operation just described should be adopted. When the palm of the hand is lacerated, along with injury to the metacarpal bones, the incision may, of course, include all the torn parts in that situation. In disarticulating either or both of the two central metacarpal bones from the carpus, the incision upon the dorsum should be carried beyond the head of the metacarpal bone; and, bearing in mind the undulating line of the articulations, the operator should divide the dorsal liga- ments ; the metacarpal bone is at the same time forced forwards into the palm ; and the point of the knife, with its edge backwards, inserted into the interosseous space on each side, is carried backwards, so as to divide the lateral attachments of the metacarpal bone. Amputation of the Metacarpal Bone of the Little Finger may be ac- complished thus :—The finger is laid hold of, and separated from the others; and the bistoury, laid on the stretched web, is carried up at once, along the inside of the metacarpal bone, to its articulation with the unciform bone of the carpus. The doomed part being pushed out- Fig. 377. Stump of the hand, in which only the thumb and little finger, with their metacarpal bones, were left ; after amputation on account of injury by a print- ing machine. The thumb and finger acquired great mobility and power, and the stump proved most serviceable. Pig. srr.