ECLECTICS. 71 can be regained. Friction, simple or medicated; pressure, carefully regu- lated ; plaster, with or without bandaging; iodine, in solution or ointment; mercury, in the form of either epithem or inunction—are the more common examples of this class of remedies. Deferred until all excite- ment is over, they are also to be begun cautiously, and continued warily; lest at any time inflammatory accession should be reinduced. When much fluid product remains after cessation of the inflammatory attack, as in the case of the serous cavities, the best promoters of absorp- tion are those which act upon the system, and evacuate by excretion, especially purgatives, diuretics, and the preparations of iodine, pushed as the system will conveniently bear. Let it not be forgotten, that in all cases of advanced inflammatory change, the part long—perhaps always—remains weak; both prone to reaccession of perverted function, and ill able to control or bear up against it. Therefore, such a part is to be carefully nursed, and pro- tected from the more prominent exciting causes ; and, when disease does recur, we should anxiously seek for its early and complete arrest. JSTow, let it not be supposed, that in each example of the inflamma- tory process, or even in most, the whole of the items of the foregoing copious catalogue of antiphlogistics are to be employed. That were to enjoin the running of a gauntlet, from which very few frames could escape unbroken. Selections are to be made. And it is in this practical department that a knowledge of facts triumphs over mere theory; the practitioner tempering and guiding his theoretical knowledge by experi- ence, judgment, and discretion. It can be readily imagined, that no definite rules can be laid down on this subject; but the following may be stated in brief illustration. There are very many inflammatory attacks —as after wounds, bruises, fractures, burns, etc.—in the treatment of which none of the higher antiphlogistics are required. The internal use of antimony, or aconite, action on the bowels, local blood-letting, fomen- tation, rest, and attention to position, are perfectly equal to the remedial task; subduing disease satisfactorily, and yet not enfeebling, even temporarily, the general powers. When an important internal organ, however, is being inflamed—as the lung, Iddney, bladder—we are anxious to overcome the evil as soon as possible ; as it were, at once to cut it down ; saving both texture and function. In such circumstances, we may have to begin with blood-letting; and even to repeat it, once and again, until the symptoms are satisfactorily subdued. When not only function of the part is important, but its texture also is delicate the efficiency of function dependent on the integrity of that texture—as m the eye and brain, we may practise bleeding with equal alacrity as in the former instance, and follow it up by the use of mercury. In some cases, full and continued doses of antimony may be substituted for the mercury. And in some, both of these medicines may be employed; each at its appropriate period of the case. When excruciating pain attends, and more especially if the part aff-ected be an internal organ, our principal reliance must be placed in opium, after blood-letting has been pushed as far as the probably already depressed state of general vital power wiU permit. At all hazards, such pain must be subdued, if