239 IN CONNECTION WITH SUEGICAL DISEASE. disease in the liver ; or may be in connection with the intestines—ulti- mately causing fascal fistula. Many ulcers also, esi^ecially of the indolent kind, owe peculiar characters, or even their existence, to Bright's disease of the kidney, or to organic aflection of other internal viscera ; a circum- stance which of course very much modifies the prognosis, as well as the treatment. Absorption of the sternum, and other diseases of external bones, may be caused by aneurisms pressing upon them from within; the non-recognition of which might lead to immediately fatal consequences. Finally, functional disorders requiring or appearing to require surgical aid, may be essentially dependent on organic or other internal affections; as spasm of the larynx, possibly requiring tracheotomy—in children de- pendent on intestinal irritation, in adults on aneurisms or other tumours interfering with the pneumogastric nerve. 3. TJie external affection may precede and give rise to the internal.— The great number of secondary diseases which are liable to follow exter- nal inflammatory affections, and operations, is well known to surgeons. Experience has shewn that a very large proportion of deaths after ampu- tation are caused by that peculiar poisoning of the blood—with its ter- rible consequences — usually termed Pysemia; abscesses in various internal parts accelerating the fatal issue. The same symptoms not unfrequently arise from very slight external lesions, such as wound of a vein in bleeding, simple fracture of a limb, or some accidental breach of surface, in itseK most trivial. The effect of many poisoned wounds, also, is a species of spreading inflammatory mischief which readily extends over a large surface, and involves very frequently internal organs in its pro- gress ; and the same thing may be said of erysipelas, which not unfre- quently undergoes an extension or transmutation into an affection of some internal part. The special secondary accidents to which particular surgical opera- tions and diseases are liable, will receive full consideration hereafter. But, in the meantime, it is to be noticed, that almost all secondary inflammatory attacks are apt to present remarkably insidious characters ; being masked partly by the constitutional symptoms which always follow an operation, partly by the peculiar character of the inflammatory pro- cess, and often also by the asthenic condition of the patient, and the attention necessarily directed to the external and primary affection. Such diseases, therefore, require particular care for their recognition, and usually also very great skill and circumspection in treatment. 4. Tite external and internal disorders may he produced hy a common cause.—This is perhaps the most usual mode in which internal diseases occur in. surgery. It may indeed be doubted, whether almost any in- flammatory attack, except such as is the effect of injury, external or internal, can be viewed as being altogether imconnected with some con- stitutional source; and the cause which renders an individual liable to one disease, not unfrequently brings others in its train. Instances of such association of diseases are of constant occurrence. Thus aneurism of an external artery is, very commonly, but one indication of disease in the whole arterial system; and if, in this case, an internal aneurism be de- tected—say, in the aorta—not only is the prognosis as regards the success of an operation on the external aneurism much modifled, ljut the