LIGATURE OF THE CAEOTID. 890 carefully divided, with the \ise of forceps, at tlie angle of the crossiji^r by the oiuo-hyoid; the cross veins, whicli so often occur in this situation^ are avoided; the margins of the wound are lield asunder by means of bent copper spatula3; and it may be useful to relax the parts somcwliat, by changing the position of the head. The descendens noni is puslied aside; the common sheath of the vessels, liaving been pinched up by forceps, is opened to its inner side, over the arterial compartment, to the requisite extent; and cautious isolation of the artery is proceeded Avitli, so as to afford clear sj)ace for passage of the aneurism needle—and no more. The needle is passed from the outer side ; the jugular vein, which on the left frequently overlaps the vessel, being if necessary repressed; and thus risk is avoided of injuring the vein, or including the par vagum. Before securing the knot, especial care should be taken to ascertain that nothing but the arterial coats is included. The inferior operation is more generally suitable in the case of aneu- rism, as aheady explained. The patient having been placed as before, an incision of about three inches in length, parallel to the inner border of the sterno -mastoid, but over the inner part of the muscle, is begun a little above the level of the cricoid cartilage. The muscle, having been exposed, is turned outwards ; while, aiter opening the fascia below the margin of the omo-hyoid, the sterno-thyroid and sterno-hyoid muscles are, along with the thyroid gland, drawn inwards, and the sheath, which, here is much looser and less marked than above, having been opened, the operation is completed as before. The descendens noni, in the former case in front of the sheath, is here found inclining to the tracheal side of the artery. On the left side, the jugular vein is very apt to prove troublesome by overlapping; on the right side, it recedes from the carotid, to meet the subclavian vein. After the operation, congestion of the lungs, with its baneful conse- quences, must be guarded against by suitable means for its prevention and arrest. When both carotid arteries have been tied within a short period of each other, cerebral softening has been known to ensue; and this has also occurred as a distant result of the operation on one of these vessels. In the case of aneurism at the angle of the jaw, external pressure may be advantageously made on the tumour, so as to atone for the defi- ciency of repressive textures, formerly alluded to. In all cases it is well to keep the neck bent, so as to relax the artery. The vessel at its inferior part has been secured by a transverse wound; cutting the sternal portion of the sterno-mastoid across, and then opening the sheath in the ordinary way.* Others, following the suggestion of Sedillot, recommend that the root of the vessel should be reached through an incision corresponding to the interval between the sternal and clavicular fibres of the sterno-mastoid ; while some, with more reason, advise that two incisions should be employed, one parallel to the fibres of the muscle, the other joining the extremity of the fii-st transversely, and dividing the attachment of the sterno-mastoid with the fibres of the sterno-thyroid more or less extensively. In the case of aneurism at the root of the common carotid, deliga- * HAKGBAVJi, Dublin Quarterly Joiu-ual, Aug. 1849.