ARTERIAL DEGENERATION. 386 Fig. 167. Fig. 166. Ch 'onic Arteritis and Arterial Degeneration. This is of infinitely more frequent occurrence than the acute; and usually idiopatliic. It seldom occurs till after the middle period of life; is more frequent in males than in f(jmales ; and its accession would seem to be much favoured by a shattered state of constitution, more espe- cially when this arises from intemperance, syphilis, or the abuse of mer- cury. It is frequently associated with hypertrophy of the left ventricle of the heart. Acute arteritis may be said to be chiefly connected with injury of the arterial tissue; the chronic, with its disease. Chronic arteritis is gradual and insidious in its progress; marked by slight pathognomonic symptoms ; and seldom discovered, during life, but by its ulterior results—abnormal dilatation of the artery, and formation of aneurism. The structural change, how- ever, is sufficiently marked; distinguishing, as we can in it, "a stage of irritation pre- ceding the fatty metamorphosis, and com- parable to the stage of swelling, cloudiness, and enlargement which we recognise in other inflamed parts" (VircJiow). It may affect an artery throughout its whole extent, continuously; or it may occur only, or at least mainly, in patches; and such patches are usually situate in the vicinity of bifurcations, or at the origins of large arterial branches. The internal coat is thickened, spongy, and less smooth and polished in its surface, due to cell proliferation of its connective tissue. Between this and the middle coat—in the intermediate tissue which is sometimes termed the sclerous coat (Malgaigne)— a soft caseous-looking substance forms, in granules or patches, usually termed atheromatous, and, accord- ing to recent researches, composed mainly of fatty granules and flakes of softened tissue, associated with crystals of cholesterine, in large rhombic plates and fine rhombic needles—the result of a fatty degene- ration of the products of a preliminary process of cell proliferation. Ultimately the middle coat, too, is altered ; becoming thick, yellow, and opaque ; its fibrous tissue iindergoing more or less fatty change, while the external coat becomes thickened and more vascular. In consequence of such change, the arterial tissue is found to have its elasticity much impaired; and is iinable to accommodate itself to the play of extreme motion, as before. The cohesion of its middle and inner coats is diminished; and, if forcibly stretched, these are apt to tear. They are incapable, too—comparatively, sometimes actually—of plastic change; Fig. 166. Fatty granules, with crystals of cliolesteriiie, from atheromatous change m the aorta.—Bennett. Fig. 167. Arterial atheromatous degeneration of the aorta, ahove its bifurcation, tn aeration in progress.