798 TUMOUJIS BENEATH THE TONGUE. cases it consists of a cyst, produced by expansion of tlie duct, and con- densation of the surrounding parts ; containing perverted secretion of tli^ cyst, and of the corresponding salivary gland (Lapage, Munich, Louie). Not unfrequently, however, there is good reason to believe that the cystj if a dilatation of normal structure, is produced from occlusion and sub- mucous dilatation of a mucous erypt (Fabricius, Dionis); and in othei' instances the cyst is apparently a new formation altogether—like cystic swellings elsewhere (Dupuytren, Breschet). When the swelling attains to such a size as to displace the tongue, impede its movements, and pro- duce a bulging in the submaxillary region, serious inconvenience iu mastication, deglutition, and articulation occurs ; indeed, the term liunulu has been appKed on account of the croaking change of voice. The tumour, presenting a bluish translucency, is distinctly seen on elevatiiiL the apex of the tongue; and by manipulation its cystic nature avlU at once be rendered evident. Two modes of treatment are applicable, according to the nature o] the disease ; restoration of the normal opening, or the making of an arti ficial substitute. In recent cases, the former method may perhaps sue ceed. The occluded original orifice is, when found, dilated by probes o suitable dimensions ; and the due degree of patency and calibre shoulc be subsequently maintained, by the occasional passage of a bougie o: probe for some time afterwards. In most cases, however, the orifice can not be detected, and therefore an artificial opening should be made wher ever the tumour is most prominent towards the mouth. This may bi done by simple incision; but it is usually better to clip away a portion o the mucous membrane and sac, by means of curved scissors, so as t< secure, as far as possible, the patency of the aperture. The contents which readily escape through even a small aperture, are usually of ; gummy or albuminous character, and contain simple round, mucou globules as their only structural element. To j)revent premature closin; of the aperture made into the cyst, it may be necessary to touch tli margins as well as the interior of the sac occasionally with potassa fusa. while others recommend, as soon as bleediug has ceased from the incisio that the cavity should be filled with lint, soaked in tm'pentiue or so other irritating substance. This object, however, may be obtained in m" cases by the mere introduction of a strip of lint. Some surgeons prefl the employment of a seton passed through the cyst, and retained imti the requisite contraction is obtained. By others, a piece of silver wi~ —retained by twisting the ends—is recommended as more suitable th~" the seton; and some resort to the ingenious expedient of introducin one button of a metal stud into the sac, with a perforation in its steH' through which the contents may escape as they are secreted—the butto: itself resting smoothly beneath the side of the tongue. Tumours beneath the Tongue. Encysted tumours are not unfrequently foimd in this situationi simulating the symptoms of ranula very closely. The cyst is tliin; tb contents are yellowish, resembling tallow or lard, or may be of a pultd ceous consistence. Sometimes thoy attain to a considerable size. Wh&