746 LUPUS. sypliilitic sores, without aifection of hone. Besides the iodide of potassium and iron, arsenic is found a very useful internal remedy steadily persevered with in small doses. In oljstinate cases, benelit has often resulted from exhibition of the liquor hydiiodatis arsenici et hydrar- gyri—a powerful alterative.* The local applications are necessarily varied. At first, bland and tepid injections are advisable; afterwards those which are stimulant and alterative. A weak solution of arsenic solutions of the nitrate of silver, sulphate of zinc, etc., may be employed as circumstances seem to indicate. Througliout the cure, the chloinirets should be used, at least occasionally, as correctives of fostor. By some the following combination is held in high repute : an mjection composed of from one to two drachms of chloruret of hme or soda, rubbed up with thirteen ounces of decoction of rhatany root—strained after standing half an hour. In scrofulous cases, ordinary antistrumous constitutional treat- ment win, of course, not be neglected ; large doses (S ii) of cod-liver oil proving very useful When the stomach is irritable, rhubarb and bicar- bonate of potash, with sweet carbonate of iron, or bismuth alternated with smart cholagogues, will be found very efficacious in allaying the local irritability. 4. Lupus, or Noli me tangere, is a confirmed phagedasnic ulcer; com- mencing usually in the upper lip, or at the exterior of the nasal cavity j spreading upwards, inwards, and around, but more in extent than in depth ; often healing at one part, while it extends at another ; ultimately involving the bones, denuding them, and inducing, by their destruction, hideous deformity. In advanced cases, the soft and hard parts of the nose may be wholly destroyed; while an unseemly chasm has also been made in one or both cheeks. The destructive process may advance stiU more extensively, producing deformities more and more hideous, and ultimately proving fatal by hectic exhaustion or pyaemia. The disease is most common in adolescents and adults—of the poorer sort, ill-fed, ill-clothed, scrofulous, or tainted in system by syphiKs; and sometimes, undoubtedly, it is connected with habits of intemperance. Sometimes, however, it attacks the most carefully nurtured and temperate; as if seeming to prefer the finely-cliiseUed features and deHcate complexions to those of coarser and rougher texture. As in other phagedsenic ulcers, the affection may be either chronic or acute. Treatment is partly constitutional—such as recommended in oza;na; partly local, consisting of such applications as are found most suitable for arrest of phagedsena. An escharotic, such as chloride of zinc, nitric acid, or nitrate of mercury, may sometimes be first employed with advan- tage ; and then the sore is subsequently treated according to the cha- racters which it presents. Black wash, or the greatly diluted citrine or red oxide of mercury ointment, constitute useful empirical remedies ni such cases. When the sore threatens to become irritable, and verges again towards phagedsena, a weak solution of arsenic may be found to be of much service. Of escharotics, the chloride of zinc is perhaps most employed, in the form of paste; and is especially useful Avhen bone has become affected; for it seems to hasten its exfoliation. Occasional use oi the chlorurets is essential as a corrective of foetor. Sometimes repeated * Dublin Journal of Medical Science, September 1840, p. 98.