899 ACCIDENTS OF VENESECTION. to make the superficial part of the wound considerably more free than the venous orifice. Then the blood is allowed to flow. If the stream grow sluggish, movement of the fingers, in grasping anything in the hand, will tend to increase its jet, by forcing the contents of the inter- muscular veins into the median, while, at the same time, it accelerates the general venous return. During the whole process, care must be taken to avoid any deviation from the original position of the limb, other- wise the woimd in the integument will cease to correspond to the wound in the vein, and the flow of blood will become arrested. The desired effect having been obtained, the thumb is again placed on the distal side of the wound, by which the bleeding is at once arrested; the ligature on the arm is slackened and removed, and the arm is sjDonged and made dean ; a small compress of folded lint is applied over the wound ; by a bandage passed in the form of 8, all is secured; and the limb is placed comfortably in a bent posture, supported if need be by a sling. Within forty-eight hours, the bandage may be safely withdrawn; but it is well to avoid use of the arm for some days. Accidents of Venesection. 1. Thrombus.—By this term is understood an accumulation of coagulated blood in the areolar tissue between the vein and integument. This may be caused either by too small an original opening in the skin as compared with that made in the vein, or by movement of the arm causing the two openings not to correspond. When a thrombus forms, it interferes with, and perhaps completely arrests, the flow of blood at the time of the operation ; producing an inconvenient swelling afterwards ; and not unfrequently inducing troublesome suppuration in and around the wound. The accident is to be avoided, by a suitably free opening being- made at once, and by maintainence of one position of the arm throughout the whole proceeding. When thrombus has formed, the coagulum should be carefully squeezed out, an enlargement of tlie wound being had re- course to, if necessary; and then a suitable compress is accurately appHed, so as to keep the tissues in close contact. 2. Neuralgic pains may invade the limb ; dependent, probably, on puncture of a cutaneous nerve. Such an accident cannot be avoided ; when it occurs, the lancet should be introduced into the wound and moved subintegumentally, so as to divide the wounded filament; or an anodyne epithem may be applied. 3. Simple erysipelas may foUow ; and the ordinary treatment is required. 4. Angeioleucitis may occur ^er se, or in conjunction with the preceding affection. There is no peculiarity in the treatment. 5. l^ot unfrequently, diffuse suppuration tal^es place beneath the fascia, which may possibly have been injured by puncture in the operation; more probably, however, the ^pnptoms are due to phlebitis or cellulitis, arising from the unhealthy con- -ition of the patient, the state of the atmosphere, or the manner in which he operation has been performed. Free incision is imperatively neces- ary otherwise serious results, both local and constitutional, arc almost ertain to, ensue. 6. Aneurismal formations have been already consi- ed. And in reference to these it is well to remember, that the arteries 1 the forearm, following an unusual course, may be found quite super-