1024 DIAGNOSIS. Fig. 312. (lonien beooine.? occluded; but tlio former cavity is unusually spacious and ascends high in the cord, containing, it may be, more or less serous fluid. Behind this a hernia descends invested by its ordinary peritoneal sac. Tlic infantile hernia has thus the serous sac of the tunica vaginalis lying in front and overlaying it. As an inguinal hernia is about to descend, a painful fulness is found opposite the upper abdominal aperture, increased by abdominal exertion, and sustaining an expansile impulse upon coughing. Then is the time lor applying a truss carefully, and avoiding exciting causes, with a view to prevention of the hernia. The pad of the truss should compress the superior abdominal aperture, not the lower; otherwise there is room enough for hernia, and strangulated hernia too, within the abdominal parietes. The diagnosis of the oblique form of inguinal hernia, from other affec- tions occupying the inguinal region, is sometimes a matter of difficulty. While the tumour stdl occupies the inguinal canal, an undescended testis may simulate the bubonocele, as this form of the hernial protrusion is called. The absence of the testis in the scrotum upon that side, the hardness and inimobilitj'' of the tumour, and the peculiar sickening pain produced by pressure upon it, suffice in most cases to render the diagnosis easy. Wlien, however, the undescended testis is inflamed, as it may be, from the pressure of a truss which has been applied under the belief that it is a hernia, or when it has become acutely affected during the progress of gonor- rhcea, the pain, siclcness, and rapid increase in the swelling, may lead to a suspicion of the existence of a strangidated hernia. Still, the absence of the testis from the scrotum, and the history of the case, should in most instances save the practitioner from error. In one case of this kind, when the effusion into the tunica vaginalis, situated within the inguinal canal, had produced a protrusion at the external abdominal ring about the size of a nutmeg, I introduced an exploring trocar, and drew off about two ounces of serous fluid, with com- plete relief to the acute symptoms from which the patient was suffering. Hydrocele of the Cord may closely simulate a bubonocele. In some cases the protrusion recedes on pressure; and so long as a truss is worn, or digital pressure is applied to the internal ring, it does not again appear, but at once becomes prominent as soon as the pressure is removed ; m other cases, it slowly retreats when the patient is recumbent, and only becomes full when he has walked about for some hours—while the pressure of a truss has no effect in restraining it. In the former case there is a cyst within the abdomen, the extremity of which consti- tutes tlic protrusion ; in the latter, the fluid is either contained among the elements of the cord, and constitutes a dropsy of the cord, or gravitates into the partially occluded communication which ongi- Fig. 312. Dingrom illustrnting the state of parts in hernia infantilis.—Liston.