WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 988 Wounds of the Abdomen. Wounds of the Parietes of the Abdomen, which do not penetrate into tho sac of the peritoneum, are for tlie most part formidable only from the risk of involvement of the subjacent serous membrane dur- ing the occurrence of the inflammatory access, and of weakening of the wall after healing of the wound. In the diagnosis it is a matter of difficulty, often, to decide whether the cavity of the peritoneum is wounded or not—all the more that probing must on no account be per- mitted ; the non-existence of shock, and of intestinal protrusion, leads usually to the inference that the cavity is not implicated. In any case, however, it is well to err upon the safe side, and insist upon com- plete repose. In treating such wounds, the patient should lie upon his back, with the limbs and trunk flexed by a pillow placed beneath the thighs, so as to keep the knees bent, and with several pillows so arranged as to support the back, neck, and head. A broad binder should also be carried round the abdomen, and secured with pins, so as to resist respira- tory movement, and prevent, as far as possible, all tendency to bulging at the seat of injury. Wounds penetrating the Abdominal Parietes, and implicating tJie viscera within, are necessarily fraught with much danger. From lesion of the liver or spleen, a formidable hemorrhage can hardly fail to occur; wound of the urinary bladder, gall bladder, or intestines, causes effu- sion of the contents, almost invariably fatal—from shock, or from the effects of absorption, or at a later period from intense peritonitis. In wound of the kidneys, both acrid extravasation and dangerous loss of blood are likely to follow. Such severe injuries are invariably attended with a grave amount of shock, which serves to warn the attendant of the importance of the case, and affords an opporttinity for the completion of Nature's measures for obviating hemorrhage and extravasation. This state, as formerly observed, is not to be rashly interfered with by the practitioner; its progress is watched; reaction is rather delayed than hastened; and when this, no longer repressible, advances to excess, antiphlogistics are employed actively. Wowids of the Intestines may be suspected when blood is vomited or passed at stool, accompanied by shock; and this suspicion becomes a certainty when symptoms of effusion into the abdominal cavity are super- added, and still more when purulent, biliary, or urinous fluid, as the case may be, passes from the wound. Such effusion in the case of wound of the intestines does not, however, necessarily take place. A mere punc- ture is closed by 1^'ature's efforts. The mucous coat is protruded out- wards, and plugs the orifice; the abdominal viscera exert a constant equable pressure on each other at every point, and this tends obviously to counteract escape of contents; and these two temporary means of arrest are duly foUowed by another which is permanent—namely, forma- tion of plastic product on the exterior of the wound, whereby it is sealed, and the bowel at the site of injury united to the opposed peri- toneal surface. A moment's consideration of the nature of this process \\dll explain how mischievous must be the imprudent exhibition of stimuli, or indeed of ingcsta of any kind, at the outset of tlie treatment.