DISLOCATION INTO THE FORAMEN OVALE. 1325 caused by a heavy weight falling on the i^elvis, while the trunk is bent forwards, and the thighs are separated from each other. The limb is elongated, to the extent of nearly two iiiclies ; and is advanced in front of its fellow, the toes usually jDointing forwards—but they may incline towards either inversion or eversion. The thigh is much abducted, and cannot be brought near its fellow. The trunk is bent forwards, during maintenance of the erect posture; and the tense ridge, formed on the inside of the thigh by the stretched psoas and iliacus muscles, can gener- ally be both seen and felt. The trochanter is flattened and depressed. The head of the bone can be made out—though only in thin patients, and in the absence of swelling—by pressure on the inner and upper part of the thigh towards the perineum. The position of the limb somewhat resembles that which attends on the first stacce of morbus coxarius. A mistake in diagnosis would be fraught with the most direful consequences; but, with ordinary care, such a misfortune is not lilcely to occur. The true elongation of the limb, and of the space between the anterior spinous process of the ilium and the trochanter major, is of itself a sufficient test of the dislocation. Fig. 359. In employing extension and counter-extension, the patient is placed flatly recumbent. Here the limb is elongated ; and counter-extension is accordingly made, not in the axis of the limb, but across the pelvis, by means of a strong belt passed round it. Extension is applied in'the opposite direction, at right angles to the pelvis; the pulleys being at- tached by means of a loop passed under the upper part of the thio-h^and with one portion of the loop brought over the belt whereby counter-exten- sion IS made. Extension is exerted gradually, until the head of the bone 13 felt moving from its abnormal site. The surgeon then, passin^^ his hand behind the ankle of the sound limb, grasps the ankle of the dislo- cated member, and draws it inwards, towards the mesial line of the body The foot should not be raised, lest the head of the bone slip into the ischiatic notch—a casualty, however, which is far from being irreparable Or, the patient having been placed recumbent, on the sound side^ Fig. 359. Reduction of dislocation into the foramen ovale.