115 THE CACHECTIC SOKE. a healthy granulating surface beneath. Then water-dressing is assumed and the local management after^yards conducted as for the first class of sore; into which the original aifection ]ias in truth been happily con- verted. Objections have been made to this mode of treatment, as being cruel, destructive, and mmecessary. The fii'st objection is met by the cliloroform during the operation, and vinegar afterwards j the second is admitted, as regards irrecoverable tissue—surely a commendable result; the third is humbly denied. It is a procedure most unnecessary in the cachectic sore, which the scrofulous sore closely resembles, and with which it is very commonly confounded. In the case of the latter, if not abso- lutely necessary, it is at least highly expedient, as rendering the cure at once more speedy and more certain. On separation of the slough, should the appearance of the subjacent part not be altogether satisfactory, the potass may be re-applied, to such an extent as may be deemed necessary. After cicatrization, it is to maintainance of general treatment that we must look for prevention of relapse ; along with uniform support afforded to the part, more especially when this is in the lower limb. Bandaging is under such circumstances a most valuable means of prophylaxis; or, what is better, an elastic stocking, tight enough to support the limb, yet permitting freedom of muscular play and of venous circulation. And be it remembered that all cicatrices, more especially when extensive, and the result of sores defective in reparative power, require much protecting care ; being, by reason of recent and imperfect organization, very liable to be undone by reaccession of ulceration. 4. TJie Cachectic Sore. This, in many of its characters, resembles the preceding; but is not connected with subcutaneous tubercular formation, or with scrofulous cachexy. The constitutional evil is of another kind; mercurial, syphi- litic, or both. The sore is most frequently found in the limbs ; especially the lower ; and the patients are generally adults. There is a plurality of openings ; and subcutaneous com- munication may or may not exist; usually it does not—the intra-ulcerous parts being, indeed, preternaturally dense and firm. The ulcerous siu-faces are of the weak character ; but may be, incidentally, irritable or inflamed. The dis- a charge is thin and serous ; the surrounding skin is dusky, and slightly swolnj and often, in the near neighbourhood, there are cicatrices, perhaps extensive, where similar sores had for- merly been. Pain is considerable ; the limb is wasted and weak ; and the countenance wears the Avell-known expression of that consti- tutional evil which is the root and origin of the local malady. Treatment is simple ; and mainly constitutional. The iodide of potas- Fig. 27. The cachectic sore. At a, cicatrices of former ulceration seen.