DEGENERATION OF TUMOURS. 157 In regard to the degeneration of tumours, or their transition from tlio simple to tlie malignant type, there is a differonce of opinion among sur- geons ; some holding this to be impossible. I cannot resist the convic- tion that it does occur. I have observed cases in which tumours, originally simple, have become malignant; fatty, erectile, and cystic growths have become medullary or melanotic. Again, I have found tumours, excised and bisected, consisting partly of non-malignant and partly of medullary structure ; as if caught in the very act of degeneracy. Tumours, too, are found half scirrhous, and half medullary; the hard scirrhus passing apparently into the soft cephaloma. Enchondroma, though seldom, yet has been observed softening and becoming medullary (to all appearance) in its centre. And osteosarcoma, I am very sure, sometimes passes into osteocephaloma. Simple ulcers, we know, not seldom become cancerous ; and why may not tumours do the same 1 Perhaps, with some, the question is mainly one of terms. They will not admit that a simple tumour, such as the fatty, passes into a cancerous structure—that the adipose tissue, for example, evolves by change of de- velopment its own metamorphosis ; but they may consent to believe that the tumour originally simple may somehow have become of malignant structure and tendency. For surely cancerous development may occur in a morbid and adventitious structure, at least as readily as in texture which is normal and primary ; and whatever the recipient structure may be, the morbid development will very speedily convert it into the amor- phous and malignant mass. The thing contended for here is not the explanation of the occurrence, but the fact. Degeneration may proceed from one or two causes ; general or local. While a tumour is yet simple, the constitution may undergo an untoward change, cachexy becoming established ; and the tumour is likely then to sustain a corresponding alteration. Under such circumstances a tumour of the breast, originally of a non-malignant nature, may insensibly assume the carcinomatous structure and tendency ; the signs of degeneracy in the system preceding those of the evil in the part. Or, on the other hand, the system yet remaining apparently unchanged, the tumour itself degenerates, in consequence of repeated local excitement; as by blow, puncture, or stimulant malapraxis. The tumour's structure, like other organised textures, whether original or secondary, is liable to assume the inflammatory process. When assumed, it may advance to the ordinary results. A recent simple tuinour may suppurate, and disappear by disintegration. A circumscribed tumour of any kind, sometimes, though rarely, is reduced to the condition of a slough, and may so be extruded, as it were by Nature's own operation. Ulceration is an extremely frequent result, in any excited tumour, and more especially in those of malignancy. These are clearly the results of the inflammatory pro- cess, of a high grade, in tumours. The more chronic and minor pro- cess is less marked in its operation, but may be equally decided and even more untoward in its efl-ect. For it seems not unreasonable to suppose that to such morbid condition the act of degeneracy may in large measure be attributed. At first, it may cause mere acceleration of the growth, by increase of the same formation as before ; the tumour eulargos, but is yet of its original simplicity of structure. But after