1328 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ICNEE. are rare. The displacement cannot occur without much disruption of the retaining parts; and, in consecj[uence, replacement is generally effected without difficulty. The Tibia may be luxated from the femur, in five different direc- tions :—'1. Bachoards, behind the condyles of the femur; causing shortening of the limb, prominence of the condyles in front, depression of the ligament of the patella, and bending of the leg forwards. Mal- gaigne distinguishes a complete and incomplete form of the dislocation backwards ; and states that in the former the patella will be found situated horizontally beneath the condyles of the femur, while in the latter it Ls only inclined at an angle of 45 degrees. 2. Forwards.—The condyles are thrown back, and compress the popliteal vessels ; the tibia and patella are elevated in front; the limb is shortened and slightly flexed. When in this form of dislocation the articulating surfaces pass clear of each other, and the injury is thus complete, the shortening of the limb is sometimes considerable, and the patella lies horizontally upon the surface of the head of the tibia ; in the more common case, of a partial dislocation, it is inclined obliquely between the head of the tibia and inter-condyloid fossa. These antero-posterior dislocations are more ' nearly complete than the other two, which are always only partial. 3. Inwards.—The internal condyle of the femur rests upon the external semilunar cartilage ; and the tibia projects plainly on the inner side of the joint. 4. Outwards.—The external condyle rests on the inner semi- lunar cartilage ; and the projection of the tibia is on the outside of the joint. 5. Displacement by rotation, usually outwards ; a very rare injury, recognised by the foot being laid on its outer side, while the internal articular surface of the tibia projects in front beneath the intercondyloid notch, the inner condyle producing a well-marked pro- tuberance above, and to the inner side. Eeduction is in general readily effected by extension and coaptation. Antiphlogistics are required subsequently, to ward off or modify the intense inflammatory seizure, which is apt otherwise to ensue after so serious an injury. The compound luxations usually require either immediate amputation, or excision of the joint. Gradual displacement of the knee, by muscular action, in the case of advanced structural change, has been already considered. The Semilunar Cartilages are sometimes displaced, by twisting the joint; as when a person, in walking, with the foot everted, strikes the toes against an obstacle ; or when the foot, in walking, becomes suddenly caught in a crevice or hole. Perhaps there is a predisposing cause in operation—namely, unusual relaxation of the retaining ligaments of these structures. One or both of the cartilages is pushed from the normal site, by the condyles of the femur, which are thus unduly separated from the head of the tilDia. The limb is immediately rendered stiff, and incapable of bearing weight; and a sickening pain is felt. Extreme flexion of the joint, by disengaging the parts, usually suffices for restoration of the normal state ; the cartilages, by their elasticity, seeking their o-wn place, when free. The production of such flexion may require force, and is painful. After the joint has remained a little in that position, the limb is brought down again with a sudden movement. The knee remains