220 ESCHAllOTICS. unfavourable to the healing process ; inducing suppuration, or even sloughing to some extent; and so preventing adhesion. Some substances, as agaric, cobwebs, felt of a hat, etc., adhere to the surface ; at the same time entangling the blood and favouring the forma- tion of coagulum ; and thus they mechanically tend to arrest bleeding. Certain of the styptics, when taken internally, assist in restraining hemorrhage. Gallic acid, matico, and turpentme, are especial example.s of this class. 6. Escliarotics.—These may be actual or potential. Of the latter class, the saturated solution of the percliloride of iron and the solid nitrate of silver are often employed. They have an astringent elfecl on the arterial tissue, like the more simple styptics ; and, besides, tend to induce immediate coagulation of the sanguineous and other fluids with which they come in contact, on the surface to which they are applied. This coagulum, further, is adherent to the texture beneath ; and thus these remedies combine the two modes of action which the class of styptics was said to possess; constringing the vascular orifices, and at the same time covering them with an adherent mechanical obstruction. They form good applications in the minor cases of obstinate bleeding ; especially in mucous and cutaneous surfaces. Often they may be trusted to alone in such cases. In others, of a more serious nature, they may prove an excellent auxiUary to pressure. There are some cases of bleeding, j)artly arterial, partly by oozing, in which it is impossible otherwise to have the compress placed— dry and firm—in immediate contact with the bleeding points; and, as stated previously, an inaccurate compress is Ukely to prove ineffectual. In such a case, nitrate of silver—or, better, the perchloride of iron—is first applied to the part; not so much to cause a truly escharotic effect— killing a portion of texture, which must afterwards be detached ; but simply so as to produce the hemostatic result formerly described. The bleeding is stanched for a time ; it may be but for a moment. But even that short space of time is of much value ; enabHng us to apply the dossil directly and accurately to the part; without interposition of blood, either fluid or coagulated. The coagulum, made by the nitrate of silver, is but a thin film ; not inconsistent with accuracy of pressure. The actual cautery is a more severe remedy, to be reserved for more urgent cases ; those examples of serious bleeding, for whose arrest other means are deemed inapplicable, or in which other means have been already tried and have failed. As it sears the surface, the vascular orifices become shrunk, shrivelled, and charred j and this effect itself is powerfully hemostatic; the shrivelling being such as to obstruct the canal. But, besides, all the textures of the burnt part are converted into • a dead eschar, in thickness and extent proportioned to the intensity of the application. To constitute this eschar, the previously living and open . texture is not only killed, but also condensed and contracted; and this i change is to such an extent as to render the mass impervious to blood. This mass adheres to the living textiures, around and beneath, until de- • tached by the ordinary process of ulceration. So long as adlierent, it mechanically restrains the flow of blood ; and when loosened, it is pro- bable that the ordinary concomitant and antecedent plastic change has sealed the vascular orifices, and permanently arrested hemorrhage. The