TREATMENT OF CAEIES. 293 results of suppuration or ulceration have occurred ; warily, avoiding ex- haustion of the system, and still more the poisoning of it, by excess of mercurial and other active antiphlogi sties; careful not to induce a state favourable to the occurrence of destruction in bone. When caries has occurred, the indications of local treatment are abundantly simple. We are to take away the two portions wliich are incapable of healthy effort—the interstitially rarified and softened, as well as the truly ulcerous ; leaving a solid foundation of normal texture, not only capable of, but already engaged in, the business of efficient repair. Afterwards, the part is to be treated as a simple ulcer; our anxious care being directed to speedy yet efficient and certain closure, lest renewed degeneration supervene. Not resting satisfied with a blue, elevated, soft and spongy cicatrix ; but insisting on the establishment of one which is firm, white, depressed—plainly incorporated v/ith the bone. For effecting the removal, cuttmg instruments are infinitely prefer- able to escharotics, in all situations where excision is practicable. But, as a general rule, no operation of any kind should be performed on the bone, unless the adjacent and superimposed soft parts are in a quiet state. They may be undergoing the acute inflammatory process ; they may be the seat of acute suppuration, of acute ulceration, or of both ; and re- moval of a portion of bone, unbedded in such soft parts, is almost certain not only to prove futile as a means of cure, but actually to aggravate and extend the disease. The then carious portion of bone may be taken away; but ulceration, instead of reparation, is certain to ensue, and the carious condition is renewed. Or a more intense and general ostitis is kindled ; and the partial caries is merged in general necrosis. And even supposing none of these untoward events to occur, still the time of opera- tion were inexpedient; as causing an unnecessary and therefore an unwar- rantable amount of acute inflammatory change. The soft parts being already quiet, or having become so under suit- able treatment, free incision is made through them; so as effectually to expose the diseased portion of bone—previously tolerably well explored by judicious use of the probe or finger. The extent of the doomed parts having been satisfactorily ascertained, their thorough removal is then to be accomplished ; by the saw, trephine, bone-pliers, or gouge, as circum- stances may render expedient. As a general rule, the saw is preferred to the pUers ; just as, in soft parts, the knife is preferred to scissors. A cleaner wound is made ; there is less bruising; and, therefore, untoward inflammatory accession is less likely to supervene in the line of wound. The articulating extremity of a long bone may be readily taken away by the common saw, or by a smaller straight-edged instrument. In a flat bone, such as the cranium or scapula, the trephine may be more con- venient. And in many situations, where either the previously mentioned instruments are inappKcable, or when by them we have already taken away much but cannot remove all, our object may be gained by an in- strument closely resembling the carpenter's gouge, firm, ^ye\l tempered, and of a sharp edge; used lightly, so as not to crush but cut; and yet used determinedly, so as to ensure ablation of all the texture prone to renewal of ulceration, and incapable of rejiair. Some employ a rasping in- strumout (osteo-iritc), with a rotatory movemeut, to ellcct the same object.