PUNCTURED FRACTURE. 627 Pig. 236. in some mmsliot woumls, prove tliafc these characters become reversed; that it is more the direction of the force, and degree of support afforded in passinc^ through the bone, which determine the comparative extent of fracture o°f the outer and inner tables of the skull * Besides the greater extent of surflxce of the inner table which is thus separated from sur- rounding vascular connection, it is very often found to be further broken up into°fragments—usually small and spiculated—which, being driven inwards by the force of the blow, penetrate, or at least seriously irritate, the coverings of the brain, producing inflammatory accession. This may be general, involving the brain itself, and to the last degree dangerous; or it may be limited to the injured dura mater, causing abscess there—a result still most perilous to life. And to accomplish the latter evil, it is not necessary that the fragments of the inner table should penetrate, or in my way mechanically injure the dura mater. It is sufficient that they are etached from the general cranium, md remain unremoved; there they necessarily die ; and, as sequestra, ley inevitably become surrounded by purulent formation. The rule of practice, then, comes to be plain. Wlienever we are atisfied that punctured fracture has occurred—m other words, that the dnd of fracture is such that splintering of the internal table is certain •we camiot too soon proceed to operation. We trephine immediately, 0 as to expose the fragments, and admit of their being carefully and fficiently removed. Unless they are taken away, antiphlogistics are iractised in vain; the inflammatory process becomes established at the larfc j sooner or later abscess forms; and then we find ourselves com- pelled to operate for the removal of the separated fragments, or for the ilief of compressed brain, under very unfavourable circumstances. The Jast result is abscess of the dura mater. But it may be, that even the uestionable chance by operation is not afforded; the inflammatory ik having proved general—cerebral, as well as meningitic—and eedUy carrying off the patient. Taking the most hopeful view of the a necessity for operation is certain to arise, at some stage. And ely it is most prudent to operate at that time which plainly is most 'omising of an auspicious result. Better to operate at once, removing e paramount exciting cause of the inflammatory process, and probably erting all casualties ; than to attempt, subsequently, to retrieve or limit ger and disaster, already sustained. The rule as to operation, then, is very different in the case of punc- ed fracture, from what is applicable to any other injury, hitherto j>n3idered. "We at once proceed to the operation of trephining, whether Erichsen's Science and Art of Surgery. Williamson, ut mp., p. 17. Prep, inseum at Cliatham, No. 2881. Fig. 236. Punctured fracture, at a; at b, the dura mater represented detached, 1^ apicula of bone lodged in the vacant space.