TREATMENT OF SHOCK. 4G4 but that lesion of the cerebral structure lias occurred. Perhaps the. shock—for at first the symptoms may be those of concussion only—is of long continuance ; hours may elapse, and yet the circulation is weak, and almost limited to the trunk. This is fortunate; for, during such a'con- ■ dition, hemorrhage is not likely to take place from the injured texture • ; and time is afforded for the completion of that beautiful process, to be ' afterwards described, by which Nature prevents loss of blood in many • cases of injured vessels. Then, when reaction does occur, and activity • of circulation is restored to the brain, bringing with it return of function, no open vessels permit sanguineous extravasation ; and coma by com- pression has been happily prevented. This is a felicitous adaptation of circumstances to the attainment of an important and salutary event; and I let the sui'geon look on in passive admiration. But, not unfrequently, he ! tires of waiting on Nature, and administers stimuH at an early period I to bring about reaction; unfortunately he is successful in his short- ■ sighted aim ; circulation is restored to the torn part, while its vessfl are yet open ; concussion is converted into compression ; and danger ii. life is increased tenfold. Under such circumstances—and they are of common occurrence—early recourse to stimuli is strongly reprehensible. The practice must prove in all such cases prejudicial; and in not a few it will be certainly fatal. In the treatment of the shock of injury, then—and more especiall^- when the head is the part injured—early bleeding and immature stimu- lation are both to be avoided. The injured part receives the mechanical adjustment that is necessary ; and the patient is laid in bed, or elsewherf as comfortably as possible ; with the head (unless it be the seat of injur} / in the first instance rather low, so as to favour return of arterial circulation there. The event is then carefully watched. Eeaction may soon occur, without further aid from us, and may require even active means for its moderation. When it is tardy, and there seems to exist no reason why its retardation should be desirable, friction and heat are to be applied to the general surface ; and should these fail, stimuli are then cautiously administered by the mouth—if the patient is able to swallow ; beginning with simple fluids, such as hot tea or soup, and gradually ascending in the scale, if need be, to brandy and ammonia. The exhibition of these requires great care, when insensibility is complete; otherwise they may get into the air passages instead of into the gullet, and suffocate the patient. In many cases, indeed, we must trust to other means ; such as stimulating enemata of turpentine or brandy ; galvanism ; or the appU- cation of powerful stimuli—as sinapisms, hot irons, blisters, strong ammonia—to the surface, with the double object of rousing the spinal system by reflex action, and courting sanguineous circulation towards the part irritated. But in the use of such remedies, again, it is to be remembered that sensation is for the time in abeyance ; and unless we— as it were—feel for the patient, the applications are apt to be unneces- sarily severe ; proving very troublesome, and perhaps even dangerous, m their results, after reaction has been established—as by ulceration, sloughing, or extension of superficial inflammatory disease. The am- monia, for example, of a smelling bottle has often been carelessly thrown into the nostrils, producing sad distui-bance there. Duiiug syncope, the