494 HYDROPHOBIA. extent, that the slightest causes are sufficient to induce the most violent spasmodic actions. Treatment.—Tlie principal duty of the surgeon consists in adopting means for prevention; those of cure cannot be said to be within the reach of surgical skill. A person bitten under suspicious circumstances is usually much alarmed, and applies for relief without delay. Our first business is to inquire into the history of the accident; the disposition and character of the dog; its apparent condition at the time; whether loose or chained, whether provoked or not. For it may happen that the animal was not to blame, having been either provoked to an assault in its own way ; or having inflicted the bite with the idea of dischargii a supposed duty on an aggressor. Such a wound is not supposed to contain any virus, if the animal be apparently in sound health, and of its ordinary mood ; and no special treatment is required. If there he any reasonable grounds for doubt, however, let error always be approached on the safer side, and the treatment be conducted as if inoculation by virus had actually occurred. It is better that an unnecessary severity of treatment should be adoj)ted, than that any risk should be incurred of the accession of an almost certainly incurable disease. If the animal be undoubtedly rabid, it should be killed instantly ; for very obvious reasons. If it be apparently well, and yet have inflicted the injury under sii- picious circumstances, it is better to keep it in quarantine, but withoii; the knowledge of the patient. If the animal become rabid, it should be put to death secretly; but if it remain well over the fifty days, usually allotted as the period of probation, it should be shewn to the patient, as a most powerful means of re-assurance. Indeed, if the next six or ten days pass over without the appearance of symptoms of rabies, we may rest satisfied that the animal was not rabid at the time of the infliction of the bite. The surgeon, when satisfied that the bite has been inflicted by a rabid animal—unless when this has happened through a considerable thickness of clothes—at once proceeds to excision, when that is prac-< ticable ; and effects it in a thorough maimer; carefully ascertaining with; the probe the extent to which the teeth have pierced, and taking carei that the knife goes beyond this on every aspect. Afterwards, it is welli to apply a cupping glass, exhausted {Sir D. Barry); so as to encourage bleeding, and oppose absorption. If there be any uncertainty as to the whole of the injured parts having been removed, let caustic or the actual cautery be applied freely. As before stated, it is better that the pati suffer pain unnecessarily, than that any portion of the virus should permitted to remain. Some authorities prefer caustic to excision. Mr« Youatt, for example, reposed much faith in the nitrate of silver alona And perhaps its chemical effect on the virus may be fidly equal to destructive action on the tissues; for the latter we know is but shght. His experience and success were great; 400 cases of bite, by dogs \n\- doubtedly rabid, and not one example of hydrophobia. Yet excision i> surely demanded of us, when practicable, as an additional and more effec- tual means of security; the chemical agent being afterwards employed, il deemed necessary, to render assurance doubly sure. If the part he mangled in such a way as to render it impossible to obtain accuracy