CONCUSSION OF THE BRAIN. 599 1 uore or less disturlDed; and a depressing effect is exerted on the general . ■dilation. The patient, stunned, and more or less insensible, lies motionless, pale, and cold. Insensibility, however, after a time, is found not to be complete except in extreme cases; by loud calling, monosyl- labic acknoAvledgment may be obtained; by pinching the skin, or other- wise causing pain, some evidence is usually given of pain being felt, and an attempt is made by the patient to move the part from the supposed source of injury. Power of motion is depressed and latent, not neces- sarily destroyed; and the voluntary muscles, though relaxed, are not necessarily paralyzed. Eespiration is feeble, slow, and sighing. The {uilse is rapid, small, and fluttering ; and especially weak at the extre- mities. The pupils are usually contracted, and insensible to light; but their state is variable; sometimes one is contracted, while the other is either natural or dilated. Squinting is not uncommon. Vomiting is often present, and serves to indicate that reaction from this state of de- pression is about to commence. The patient becomes more easily aroused ; and responds more dis- tinctly to interrogation, either by words or by gesture. Eespiration be- comes more full and composed. The pulse is less frequent, and more distinct; but, at this time, the circulation is peculiarly irritable, the mere effort of change of posture usually inducing marked increase in the fre- quency of the heart's action—or even syncope. Pain now is more felt hy the patient; and is referred to the head. Vomiting may continue. The returning mental power is apt to prove errant and deceptive. Not unfrequently, a state resembling somnambulism continues for ome hours during the transition to recovery. Motion, sensation, some of the special senses, and much of mental power, seem to be restored, yet the patient remains as if in a deep sleep. He may rise to evacuate his I'ladder or bowels, or even wash, shave, dress, perambulate ; all the while unconscious, or at least afterwards oblivious, of what occurred (luring this period. But reaction seldom stops at mere restoration of the normal state ; the boundary of health is crossed, in an opposite direction. Eeaction proves excessive ; and symptoms are evinced of an inflammatory process hegun ia the injured part—the brain, its membranes, or both. The imlse becomes full and hard ; the skin hot and dry; the face flushed ; the eyes bloodshot; the pupils more contracted and insensible to light. Tain, as if a cord had been tightly tied round the temples, is complained of in the head ; restlessness is more and more marked; the mind, which may have in great measure recovered, again loses its healthful balance; flelirium supervenes, accompanied sometimes with excessive restlessness, • pasmodic muscular twitchings, or even partial paralysis ; and so the -jmptoms advance. Eesolution may occur. Or fluid inflammatory jiroducts accumulate; the symptoms of compression are induced ; and the issue may be fatal. Practically, the symptoms of concussion may be divided into three ^^ ages. 1. Depression ; marked by insensibility, and feeble circulation, ihis may be intense and enduring ; proving fatal and that speedily—the patient quite unconscious throughout. 2. Eeaction. The symptoms of '4'ression pass off; cii-culation is restored; and cerebral function re-