389 IDIOPATHIC ANEUIllSM. 'idiopathic Aneurisms, in contradistinction to tliose which are Traumatic jor otherwise Accidental By the first we mem those which are the re- Bult of disease of the arterial tunics ; the-tumour being formed by dilata- tion, or in consequence of the arterial coats having given way from within, either by rupture or by gradual disintegration ; and the cyst consisting, tit least in the first instance, of a portion of the arterial coats yet un- broken. By the latter, on the contrary, we shall understand those nneurisms in which the arterial tunics form no part of the aneurismal cyst; these having been wholly divided, either by wound or by ulcera- tion from without; and into the formation of which aneui'isms, the existence of antecedent arterial disease does not necessarily enter. I Idiopathic Aueurism. The mode of formation may vary. 1. By Dilatation.—This is most Ifrequent in the aorta. The coats do not give way, either by rupture or Iby ulceration, but evenly dilate into a pouch of greater or less volume; an the parietes of which atheromatous change is apparent, and the con- tinuity and integrity of the tunics can be distinctly traced—more (especially after maceration. The elasticity of the vessel has been con- siderably diminished by the atheromatous change ; and in proportion to its (diminished elasticity, is the loss of compensating power to cope with the Ipressure produced by the current of blood impelled by the heart. The tvessel accordingly remains dilated, and this form of aneurism is obviously (dependent on changes affecting especially the elastic and muscular fibres jof the middle coat, and not on degeneration of the inner coat, whether primary, or secondary to inflammatory proliferation. The dilatation may I be partial, on one aspect of the canal; and the hollow swelling wliich results is then said to be Sacciform. Or the whole tube gradually dilates, and gradually recovers at each end of the dilated part, giving lise to a spindle-shaped enlargement, which is termed Fusiform. Or the general dilatation may be abrupt and uniform; and it is then said to be Cylindroid. 2. By Dilatation amd Lmsion.—In this form, commencement of the tumour and abnormal cavity is made by dilatation of all the coats, which, however, may not proceed to any great extent. Then the internal coat giveaway, either by gradual disintegration of the tissue, or by sudden teai'ing during some muscular exertion ; the middle coat usually yields at the same time; blood in consequence becomes insinuated into the aperture; the external coat yields before the pressure from within, and, expanding, forms the aneurismal cyst. The coats around the laesion become intimately adherent by plastic change, preventing the stripping up which otherwise would be liable to occm-, and favouring the thickening and rounding off of the edges of the aperture. The new cavity is filled by fluid blood ; aud,^ under the impulse thence received, the cyst gradually enlarges; re- ceiving strength and addition both from without and from within. From ■within, by deposit of fibrin from the blood, and by its own inlierent nutritive power determining cell proliferation of the connective tissue in the external coat; from without, by condensation and incorporation of the surrounding tissues. By such condensation and organization of part of the nbrrn from within, with plastic contribution also Irom the living texture,