498 MALIGNANT PUSTULE. The means of prevention are sufficiently obvious. Those of cure con- sist in a mitigation of symptoms ; by fomentation, poultice, or water- dressing of sores and pustules ; by evacuation of abscesses, and fi-ee incision of infiltrated areolar tissue ; by the use of dilute liquor chlorinii, or the chlorurets, as an injection up the nostrils, corrective of foitor; by tho application of various alteratives to the sores, as their appearances ^ may indicate ; and by supporting the general strength by diet and stimuli, as circumstances may require. The alterative said to be most suitable i for application to the sores, is creasote in solution; and the use of the < liquor chlorinii internally in drachm doses, frequently repeated, seeing > more likely to be beneficial than any other internal remedy hitherto v- employed. Malignant Pustule. What is called (somewhat absurdly) " The Malignant Pustule " may occur with or without breach of surface ; but only by contagion. And,,, of course, inoculation is the more rapid and certain means of communi-. eating the disease. It shews itself chiefly in cattle, in the autumn—i specially in those pasturing in low marshy situations; and is propagated * by a poison communicated from animals affected with the " Bovine disease,"—a typhoid afi'ection, of which a rapidly fatal pleuro-pneumonia and the formation of carbuncles are the prominent symptoms. Not only |i oxen, but sheep and pigs also suffer in the same way. The infecting ii animal may be either dead or alive; the patient's cuticle may be either entii-e or abraded. Some have asserted that the tainted flesh taken , internally, as food, will produce the disease. No doubt, serious consti- tutional disorder will in all likelihood occur under such circumstances and the skin may become affected by an eruption, probably degenerating into troublesome sores; yet the true "malignant pustule" does not forn but by inoculation. At all events, it yet requires to be proved that tli( disease is communicable either by eating diseased flesh, or by inhalatioi of tainted atmosphere ; and, meanwhile, probabihty leans much toward the negative. The disease, as occurring in the human subject, may be divided inti two periods; in the first, we have the local symptoms appearing and in creasing in severity ; in the second, the constitutional manifest them selves and advance towards the fatal termination. 1. After some itchiii,: and inflammatory irritation, a dark vesicle forms on the mere sur face of the skin, and, bursting, discharges a brownish fluid. Tli true skin becomes involved, and while the vesicle is surromidci by a dark inflammatory areola, the skin and subcutaneous tissu become infiltrated, thickened, and constitute the base of a carbuii cular boil, which is accompanied with pain of a severe burnin character, and, it may be, with lymphatic irritation extending to tli trunk. This carbuncular boil now becomes phageda3nic and sloughing and preceded by a diffuse inflammatory process, extends its ravagi more or less rapidly. 2. Meanwliile the patient has been suffering froi inflammatory fever of an irritative type ; marked typhoid deprcssio gradually developes itself; and a fatal issue, preceded by dehrium an