878 rilTJlISlS LAKYNGEA, different kinds—the result usually of a chronic inflammatory process : 1. Sinqile ulceration may occur as a direct result of acute or chronic laryn- gitis, or of follicular disease; or the larynx may be implicated secondarily by extension of ulceration from the fauces—as is not unlikely to happen in patients who have the misfortune to labour under an aggravated form of syphilis. The ulceration is very liable to be surrounded by oedema- tons swelling, which, by obstructing respiration, seriously compUcates the case, and may demand both instant and energetic measures to save life. And such complication is especially apt to occur, if by exposure, or other cause, an inflammatory aggravation have supervened on the previously chronic form. Or the amount of oedema may be slight, re- spiration may never be seriously impeded, the ulcer may heal, and the normal calibre and function of the larynx may be almost wholly restored. Or, on cicatrization—long delayed—contraction and displacement of the parts are such, as permanently to interfere most seriously with both voice and respiration. Treatment consists in constitutional alteratives, suitable regimen, careful protection from all sources of aggravation, patient continuance of moderate counter-irritation, and regulated use of nitrate of silver to the affected part; and thus we hope to effect cicatrization, ere dangerous loss of substance has occurred—to effect, in short, something like actual resolution. If oedema supervene, and life be threatened by paroxysmal dyspnoea, tracheotomy is imperatively demanded, and must be performed. At this juncture, it is indispensable to the preservation of life. But it comes to be a question, whether its earHer employment may not be ex- pedient ; not to save life, directly, but to save structure; by placing the larynx at rest, and so facilitating the action of remedial means—accele- rating cicatrization while ulceration is yet both limited and superficial^ and thus preserving unimpaired the important function of the organ. I would incline to the opinion that it is expedient to have recourse to tracheotomy, and temporary use of the tube, in those cases of simple nicer of the larynx which threaten to resist ordinary remedial means, and which, by loss of substance, endanger the function of the part; operating^ before life has been threatened by intercurrent oedema; when there is soreness on pressure of the thyroid cartilage; when pain is felt acutely, on the box of the larynx being rubbed laterally across the spine; when there is a sensation of rawness and soreness in the part, complained of by the patient; when there is decided and peculiar foetor in the breath, with pain and difficulty in swallowing, cough, and purulent sputa —occasionally streaked with blood; and when these symptoms pereist unsubdued. By the operation, the diseased part is put at rest; counter- irritation and alterative treatment will have a much more powerful and salutary influence ; and besides, an additional opportunity is afforded of applying remedial means directly to the xilcerated parts. From the tracheal wound, the nitrate of silver may be applied freely to the diseased surface, more readily and accurately than through the glottis. And thus, healing may be obtained at an earlier period than otherwise could have been possible; the part recovers without loss of substance ; and, after a time, the tube may be finally withdrawn, leaving the cure complete. When, however, tracheotomy has been performed at an advanced penod