TREATMENT OF STRICTURE. 1220 a time, ample space may bo thus obtained, yet in the end recontraction is obviously inevitable ; partly by reason of the pltistic product wliich sur- rounds ulceration, and partly by reason of the contraction which invariably attends on cicatrization of a sore. Probably the best use of the " caustic bougie" is, not as an escharotic, but as a corrector of irritability. If a peculiarly irritable stricture resist the ordinary means, already alluded to, decided benefit may be obtained by the application of nitrate of silver to the contracted part and its vicinity. This may be accomplished, either by the porte-caustique, recommended by M. Lallemand ; or by means oi' the old-fashioned instrument—a wax bougie, in Avhose hollowed point a portion of the nitrate is imbedded. For a stricture at all penetrable, the former is preferable ; but a tight contraction can be directly reached only by the latter mode of conveyance. Instead of nitrate of silver, caustic potass is used by some ; not as an escharotic, but as an "alterative."* A small portion—from a grain to the eighth of a grain—^having been inserted in a hole made in the point of a soft bougie, is passed rapidly down to the stricture, and held there for one, two, or three minutes ; and repetition is made in four or five days, after irritation has passed away. A piece of soap, however, might probably produce quite as satisfactory efi'ects as the eighth of a grain of potash, among so much oil as requires to be used in this pro- cedure. In retrospect of what has been said as to the treatment of stricture, we may recapitulate. ■ 1. Treatment should in all cases first consist of the use of bougies, upon the principle of vital dilatation. 2. In cases of tight stricture, seen for the first time during an attack of retention, the catheter passed may be very advantageously tied in, and permanent dilatation practised for a day or two, so as to gain space rapidly. 3. "Vital dilatation" or "tunnelling" need not be used when the passage of the bougie, however small, can be efiected; but, otherwise, good practice may be made in. this way. 4. Treatment by external incision is suited to "resilient," obstinate, irritable strictures ; and to cases of very tight stricture, when, it is of importance to make rapid progress. 5. Opening the urethra behind the seat of constriction should never be adopted when a grooved staff can be insinuated along the constricted part of the canal. It is suited, however, for cases of completely ob- structed urethra from any of the causes before mentioned. 6. The ingenious devices for splitting up a stricture are rarely to be employed ; division by the knife being preferred. 7. Division of stricture from within is not superior to the external operation. Unnous Abscess. This consists in the condition of abscess, complicated with a communi- cation with the bladder or urethra, and consequently having a greater or less admixture of urine in its contents. The formation may occur in * Warlc! on Stricture, Lond. 1849.