324 EXOSTOSIS. tho suTjclavian ai-tery ; simulating aneurism. Growing from the. lower cervical vertebra), it has compressed the same artery, and caused gangrene of the limb. Of similar origin, it has compressed tlie oesophagus, pro- ducing dysphagia. Growing irom the odontoid process, it h.is caused fatal pressui-e and softening of the spinal cord. Projecting backwards from the pubes, it has caused retention of urine, and even produced organic change in the bladder. Growing inwards from the cranium— fortunately a rare event—it has occasioned epilepsy.* Growing from the neck of the humerus, it sometimes overlaps tho vessels and nerves iu the axilla. Increase is more rapid than in the ivory exostosis ; but still slower, and more insensible, than enlargement of an Lafiammatory kind. Sometimes the origin may be connected with external injury. Pain and swelling ensue, of an inflammatory character; the inflammatory pro- cess and its pain subside, but the swelling remains; resolution is incom- plete ; and subsequently the enlargement is continued, of a circumscribed and prominent character. Not unfrequently, the exostosis is found at the site of a muscular insertion, where a process of bone naturally exists; and, by the play of that muscle, it has been supposed that an exaggera- tion of the normal " process" into an abnormal exostosis is gi'adually pro- duced. In some cases, an ossific diathesis may be said to exist; even a shght blow being followed by an exostotic formation. Such cases, however, are rare. The skeleton, so susceptible, is prone rather to the inflamma- tory process, and its results; abscess, ulcer, caries, and necrosis. In the majority of cases, this variety of exostosis may be left undis- turbed ; hoping that by and by the ultimatum of growth will be reached, and matters will settle down accommodatingly. Interference is warrant- able only when bulk and position are such as to interfere with important functions—as of muscles, vessels, cavities, canals, or internal organs. Then an incision may be made, the neck of the growth severed by a saw or bone-phers, and the exostosis carefully removed. Cases demanding such treatment, however, are comparatively rare. When a fleshy part is operated on, such as the thigh, it is well to make the wound more or less transverse in direction, and to use no stitches, plasters, or other means towards primary union ; the main object being to prevent retention of suppurative discharge. Por the wound in- variably inflames acutely; pus forms rapidly and profusely ; and the serious dangers, local and constitutional, of confined and infiltrated in- flammatory secretions become imminent, unless the wound be patent and free. Patients have not unfrequently perished from the inflammatory accidents of this operation. And, in consequence, as already stated, it is not to be resorted to as an ordinary and innocent procedure. A small exostosis, protruding from the distal phalanx of the great toe, is not uncommon ; and generally causes so much lameness, and other inconvenience, as to require removal. It is sufiicient to take away tho exostosis alone ; dividing the soft parts on either side of it by a A shaped incision—its apex beneath the nail—and then shaving ofi" the growtli with the point of a stout Wharnclifi'e blade. Formerly it was * Stanley, p. 154.