22 EXCITING CAUSES OF THE INFLAMMATOllY PROCESS. require a certain amount of the constructive results of the inflammatory process for their cure; those, apparently, are sufficiently induced by the direct irritation of the tissues, occasioned by the wound ; but not un- frequently, by the excitement of indirect irritation set up through the medium of the nervous system, suppuration—a destructive result— is established; and then healing is delayed, until the process shall have again subsided from the inflammatory excess. 3. Lodgment of foreign bodies. A wound, under any circumstances, is not unlikely to inflame instead of healing; but if it contain extraneous matter, which is not removed, the attack is inevitable. 4. Pressure, in lilce manner, is a prolonged stimulus ; if slight, absorption may be chiefly produced, by the interference it occasions to nutrition; if severe as well as sustained, the cellular, nervous, and vascular elements of the texture become unduly stimulated; the inflammatory process is produced, sometimes attended by constructive enlargement, sometimes advancing to suppuration, ulcera- tion, or even gangrene. 5. Heat is a most powerful agent. Extreme, it at once extinguishes life, and reduces the part to the condition of a dead eschar ; apphed more leniently, its destructive effects are shght or limited; it proves a stimulus to the textures, and to their nerves and blood-vessels, inducing an inflammatory process which may vary from its simplest to its highest grades. 6. Cold, considerable and sustained, may act either on the part itself, whose temperature is diminished, or on some other part at a distance. (1.) At a distance. Cold is applied to the feet and legs, or to. a large part of the general surface. Circulation is enfeebled there, as shewn by the pale and shrunken integument. The blood, instead of being equally distributed over the body, is pent up within, and overloads the internal organs ; one of these—the lungs, for example—is more burdened, or more susceptible than the others ; it has obtained the first vascular move for the inflammatory process; and that process, still further determined through the reflected nervous influence of the peripheral irritation, produced by the chilling of the extremities, ad- vances accordingly. (2.) On the part itself; not by the first effect of cold, but by reaction following upon this. While decrease of temperature is maintained m the part, comparatively httle blood circulates there, its nervous influence is depressed, and all vital j)ower is enfeebled. On withdrawal of the cold's influence, blood rushes back to the compara- tively empty vessels; nervous agency is restored, with a tinghng sensation; vascular turgescence is at once estabhshed, and that in a part whose vital power has just before been impaired, and which, consequently, is but little able to resist or control the change so commenced; this advances comparatively unopposed, and the part may fall an easy prey. The onset will of course be more raj^id and severe, if, besides with- di'awal of the frigorific agent, heat, friction, or other stimuH, be at the same time applied. Nothing can be more injudicious, yet there are few practices more common ; grave disorder is rendered inevitable. 7. Atmospheric change may prove either predisposing or exciting; the for- mer, when exposure is general and habitual—often associated with habits of intemperance ; the latter, when exposure is partial and sudden. It is famihar to all how often inflaming throats, eyes, limgs, and joints, are attributable to casual exposure to atmospheric vicissitude. The modus