VAllIETIES IN LITHOTOMY. 1102 easily—tlie wound is made bilateral, as has already been explained. But such bilateral section seems quite unnecessary in ordinary cases. If, unfortunately, the surgeon have been deceived as to the bulk of the stone; and, after having made his bilateral section with perineal wound, finds that the calculus is too bulky to pass, even were it out of the bladder—he must eitlaer proceed to the high operation, or attempt to break the stone, and extract it piecemeal through the perineum. The crushing instruments, necessary in such circumstances, need not be described. They are to be found in cutler's shops, and in the armamen- taria of most lithotomists; but, fortunately, are seldom, if ever, called into exercise. The simplest form of instrument is probably the best; strong forceps, the blades armed with teeth, and the handles approximated by a powerful screw. The operation d deux temps—cutting into tho bladder one day, and attempting to extract the stone on another, during suppurative relaxation—is wisely abandoned; unless in the case of ob- stinately encysted stone, already alluded to. In no other circumstances is such a plan of operation voluntarily adopted ; but it may be thrust upon an operator by the stern force of circumstances. The Gorget, too, is but little used in the present day. For the blunt gorget, the operator's forefinger of the left hand is a very superior substitute, as a guide and conductor of forceps into the bladder. And the cutting gorget, however modified, can never be so certain or so safe, as a knife's point guided and controlled as we have endeavoured to describe.* In the hands of the careless or inexperienced, a cutting gorget may be the cause of frightful accident. Pushed recklessly on, it is as likely to be out of the bladder as in it. It may pass—has passed —between the bladder and os pubis, pushing up, bruising, detaching, or tearing the peritoneum ; or between the bladder and rectum—as has more frequently been the case; in either way favouring the most hazardous infiltration, and perhaps combining this with peritonitis. It has happened indeed, that by a more heroic thrust, the bladder has been completely perforated, the intestines have protruded, and after death the liver has been found impaled ! The Median Operation is employed in some cases where the calcidus is small, but unsuited for lithotripsy. The instruments required are a stalf grooved centrally upon the back, a bistoury, and a pair of narrow- bladed forceps. The incision is made in the middle line of the peri- neum, in front of the anus, over and behind the site of the bulb. After dividing the fascia, the bulb is elevated; and the knife, entered iu the groove of the staff immediately behind, is pushed onwards, till checked by the termination of the instrument. The finger is now conveyed into the wound ; and, as the staff is withdrawn, maintains the patency of the urethral aperture. The forceps are carried into the canal over the back of the finger ; and, having passed them onwards into the bladder, the calculus is laid hold of and extracted; after which a tube is placed in the wound. The Recto-vesical operation is out of date. It was supposed that, by * Gorget-like knives have been invented, for the purpose of rendering the prostatic wound very exact in its limits. But after trial they have been laid aside, as inferior to the ordinary knife guided by the finger.