BUFFY BLOOD. 19 blood is slow, and results in a clot unusually firm and dense ; surrounded by serum, which is apparently increased in quantity, because thoroughly squeezed out of the solid matter. In the clot the fibrin and colour- less "lymph globules" occupy the upper part; the red corpuscles sink- ing to the bottom, in virtue of their greater natural specific gravity, their proportionately diminished number, and their increased tendency to cohesion.* The pure fibrin and colourless corpuscles, therefore, keep the surface of the coagulum, and present a yellowish hue; and constitute the " Cnista plilogistica," or Biiffy coat." But the complete separation of the red corpuscles from the fibrin not only leads to the formation of the buff^y coat; it permits complete contraction of this fibriiaous layer by expression of this serum. The contraction being cen- trij)etal, the circumference of that layer gradually leaves the sides of the recipient vessel; the weight of the general clot at the same time drags on the centre, occasioning a hollowing of the fibrinous surface ; and the blood is said, in consequence of the form assumed, to be both " bufi'ed and cupped." The coagulum so formed is usually of the shape of a cone, truncated at the top ; with its broad base often adherent to the bottom of the vessel. When slightly bufi'ed, the clot is usually cylindrical and floating. Such are the appearances of inflammatory blood drawn in mass. If it be taken in a full stream, into a deep vessel, and exposed to cold, these appearances are favoured : a tiny trickling stream, a shallow vessel, and exposure to an increased temperature, are on the contrary unfavour- able to their occurrence. Also, at different times of bleeding, and even of the same bleeding, such characteristics may vary ; the portion first drawn may be neither bufi'ed nor cupped, while that which flows last is both, and intensely so. When the blood has the bufi'y coat but slightly developed, it is said to be Sizy. These characters appear to result not only from the proportionate increase in the fibrin of infiammatory blood, but also to be due to an increased tendency to adhesion of the blood corpuscles to each other, which are seen by the microscope to collect themselves into an open network of rouleaux, or form compact globular masses ; clinging together with great tenacity, and " heavy as lead," sinking to the bottom, while the granu- lar or reticulated appearance thus imparted to Fig. 7. a thin layer, may be recognized on a slip of glass or a lancet point, when viewed only by the naked eye. It must ever be remembered, however, that the buffed appearance is not, of itself, a sure indication of the infiammatory process. It may be * "Observations on the State of the Blood and Blood-vessels in Inflammation," by T. Wharton Jones, F.E.S., Medico-Chirarg. Transactions, vol. xxxvi. 1853. " On the Early Stages of Inflammation," by Joseph Lister, Esq., F.E.C.S., Philosoph Transactions, Part ii. 1858. " The Cause of the Coagulation of the Blood," by Bcti- jamm W. Richardson. London, 1858. Fig. 7. Microscopic diagram shewing the reticulated an-angement of the corpuscles in inflammatory blood.—Whakton Jones.