366 Fig. ItJO. ANCHYLOSIS. one of an obviously scrofulous kind. According to the mode of origin, the symptoms vary; assuming the type of one or other of the aifections which have been described in the preceding pages. In fact, this disease may be practically regarded as the advanced stage of the three most for- midable affections to which joints are liable ; degeneration of the syno- vial membrane, destruction of cartilage, and suppurative disintegration of the articulating ends of the bones—with or without the scrofulous cachexy. In the treatment, three results may be looked to ; as in ordinary caries. 1. On establishment of the open state of the joint, disintegration ad- vances rapidly; thereby the carious surface may be wholly destroyed, a tolerably sound part remaining; aiid on this basis a reparative structure may be reared, sufficient for comple- tion of the cure by anchylosis. 2. Or, the foregoing result being plainly hopeless—yet the disease not being very extensive, the system not greatly depressed by the hectic cause, and the scrofulous cachexy either absent or but shghtly and chronically developed —the ordinary treatment for caries may be put in force. The diseased parts may be exposed by incision, and removed; the cure being subsequently either by anchylosis, or by the esta- bbshment of false joint, according to circumstances. Such an operation is termed Eesection of a joint. 3. Or, neither of the preceding events being practicable, and the frame yielding visibly under hectic, amputation is the only remaining remedy; and, harsh though it be, it is our duty to avail ourselves of it, unless when contra-indicated by the circumstances formerly detailed. Anchylosis. Stiffness of a joint, as can be readily understood from what has been stated, may depend on various conditions of the articulation, and of the parts exterior. Accordingly, anchylosis is said to be of different kinds. 1. Osseous or Complete.—This is the result of ulceration of the ojjposed articulating surfaces ; the osseous texture having subsequently become engaged in a successful effort of repair, and the opposing bones become firmly united by incorporation. Or the anchylosis may be in a great measure unconnected with change in the interior; depending maiidy on exuberant ossification on the external aspect. The joint becomes im- movably locked in the tight embrace of an outer case of bone, continu- ous and incorporated with the original tissue; the result of a chronic inflammatory process, of a formative tyjje, and probably connected with Fig. 160. Articular caries, afl'ectiiig the hip-joint