430 TllEATMENT OF ERECTILE TUMOUR. limea cviuco such tondoncy, no doubt—especially in children dui-iiig dentition ; hut the majority of tlie active tumours elsewlicre usually groAv on. Having hccome superficial by invoh'cment of the skin, ulcera- tion is likely to occur; and hemorrhage follows; profuse, and not easily restrained; demanding active interference, otherwise by repetition or continuance it may exhaust the patient. Or ulceration may have a salutary result. If surrounded and preceded by plastic change, the vascular structure may be consolidatedno bleeding taking place, even from an acute and Avide ulcer. And this consolidation advancing as the ulcer spreads, so as invariably to precede and surround the breach, the adventitious structure may be altogether got rid of; partly by oblitera- tion, partly by ulcerative loss of substance. Sometimes hem^orrhage is vicarious in the female adult; taking the place of the menstrual discharge. The tumour becomes tense and full at the return of each period; a small fissure, or sore, forms in the skin; and from this the blood slowly distils. Such bleeding is seldom danger- ous, or even excessive ; and is not to be suddenly arrested, without means having been duly taken to secure regularity of the normal discharge. The tumour may also degenerate. That is, it may change its cha- racter, and become of a worse kind than at first. Medullary or amelnotic matter may be produced in and around it, or come altogether to take its place—the original character of the growth being entirely lost. This I have seen occur. The erectile tumour being not a mere deformity, but a disease of im- portance, tending by growth and casualties to bring life into peril, the question of Treatment is not devoid of interest. It may be conducted on three different principles. 1. By removal of the morbid stmdure.— Excision, so applicable to tumours in general, is here inexpedient; the extent and activity of the component vascular tissue rendering that mode of removal in the highest degree perilous. To cut into such a tumom*, when large and pulsating, would be the height of rashness ; the gush of blood might prove almost instantly fatal. To cut even wide of the diseased texture, is not always a matter of safety. Unless the knife move cautiously, and forceps and ligature follow nimbly after, the loss of blood may still be dangerous. The mode of removal by excision, there- fore, must be limited to those tumours which are small—not larger than a prune—of no unusual activity, not fed by large and numerous arterial trunks, so situated as to admit of the incisions being made wide of the diseased structure, and also in a locality favourable for use of the ordinary means of restraining hemorrhage. In all other cases hgatiue is preferable. Supposing the skin to be involved, a needle in a fixed handle is passed beneath the mass, carrying a stout double ligature; the needle is then withdrawn, and the ligature left. The noose having been cut, each portion is tied separately on either aspect, so as to include the whole of the morbid tissue; pulling with as tight a, strain as the ligature will bear, in order at once to kill the included part, and save both time and pain. If the swelling be circumscribed and prominent, this mode of deligation will be found very suitable. If diffuse, a second needle and ligature may be passed at right angles to the first, and managed in a similar way ; the tumour then being secured by four nooses