CimONIC LARYNGITIS, 87G confined to the upper part of the larynx, and corresponding portion oi the fouces. The matter is not limited in the form of abscess, but is dif- fusely infiltrated into the submucous areolar tissue. The membrane gives way, the matter is dischai'ged, and an ulcerated surface remains. The symptoms and progress are, in the first stage, those of simple laryngitis acute or chronic. In the suppurative stage the pain is increased, espe- • cially on pressure over the larynx, and the uneasiness in respiration may < become extreme, while the voice is completely, or almost completely, , destroyed. These symptoms are relieved by the escape of the matter, indicated by the expectoration of pus along with blood and mucus. This result having been attained, the inflammatory affection may subside, or ulceration may obstinately progress; either simply invohang the mucous a membrane, or destructively invading the muscles, cartilages, and their ligaments as well, attended with expectoration of portions of them, or if it has extended downwards, of the tracheal rings also. After this the expectoration may gradually diminish, the breathing become restored nearly to its normal condition, and the voice more or less completely recovered; or, the disease maintaining its ground or extendiug, one form of phthisis laryugea becomes established. The treatment in its early stage is that of acute laryngitis. As the suppurative result is attained, the dys- - pnoea may demand tracheotomy, which will not only afford relief but act as a remedial agent in putting the larynx at rest for a time, and thus affording facihties for a complete restoration of this organ. When the purulent expectoration is excessive, and if blood more particularly is mixed with it, tonics, cod-liver oil, and the local appHcation of the nitrate of silver solution by means of the probang, hair pencil, or tube, should be had recourse to, with the application externally of blistering tissue. 11. Chronic Laryngitis.—This may be the result of an acute or subacute attack; more frequently it is chronic from the first. But, however originating, it is ever liable to sudden and acute aggravation, from comparatively slight causes ; bringing life into peril—all the more imminently on account of the insidious and comparatively mild nature » of the previous symptoms. a. Thickening of the Mucous Membrane, resulting from what may be termed Simple Chronic Laryngitis, or from condylomatous thickening of the mucous membrane, in which the ulcerated or thickened tubercular-like patches can easily be recognised by means of the laryngoscoiDe, usually gives way to remedial treatment alone; leeches, counter-irritation, mer- cury, and other alteratives. Should an acute accession supervene—and 1 to such the patient is constantly liable—obstruction to respiration may ' be speedily induced, threatening the most serious consequences. Under i such circumstances, proportional augmentation of the medical treatment may fail to relieve ; and then tracheotomy comes to be required. As a general rule, when counter-irritation is employed in any affec- tion of the larynx, it should be applied either laterally, or on the back ■ of the neck, not in front. For, the remedial effect is the same; and it is obviously expedient to leave the site of tracheotomy clear and avail- able, in the event of recourse to that operation becoming ncccssar)^ h. FolUoular disease of the larynx is an alfection of great ircquoncy; the disease being resident and in most cases originating in the mucous