CONDYLOMA. IIGI When condylomata first appeal- upon the surface, they present a rounded form, not usually larger than a pea or threepenny piece ; but by persistence, they may attain to the size of a florin ; and by coalescence, a cluster of such tubercles may ultimately form a figure of irregular out- line, occupying a considerable extent of integument. Occurring in a fold of the skin, they sometimes develope in the direction of the crease, and assume an ovoid or spindle-shaped outhne. Ulceration may also com- plicate the appearance of the condyloma; or their surface may become inoculated with the virus from a soft chancre, and thus the characters of the simple soft sore may become engrafted on those of condyloma. This, however, is essentially a secondary affection, consequent upon pre-existence of the indurated chancre, and usually, in females, occurring among the earliest of constitutional affections j but belonging strictly to the period of the scaly and tubercular eruptions of the general surface, and accompanying the elevated white patches of the mucous membranes. Condylomata, in fact, are mere transformations of co-existing eruptive affections of the scaly or tubercular type j and their origin can be traced to local causes, which tend to induce this peculiar transformation. For example, the spots of lepra which are present on the groin and abdomen, will, as they approach the scrotum, become more elevated and less in- clined to desquamative change, while those occupying the opposed surfaces of the scrotum and inner side of the thighs, will present all the charac- ters of the condylomatous patch. Again, the ordinary lepra spots, by poulticing, may be converted into condylomata; and the condylomata which exist may be transformed into scaly spots by mere attention to cleanliness, and keeping the surface free from moisture, either by securing evaporation, or by the use of desiccants. In such circumstances, the manifest cause of the formation, and long continuance of the condylomata during the various transformations or changes which occur in the general cutaneous eruptions, is plainly refer- rible to the site they occupy. The situation in which these affections form is, in all cases, one which is kept more or less constantly moist and tender; either from the existence of an acrid secretion, or simply from a want of attention to cleanliness, and consequent accumulation of the cutaneous secretions upon surfaces in close contact, and exposed to mutual friction. These determining causes of the condylomatous form of eruption have led some surgeons to regard them as non-specific affec- tions, due simply to moisture and irritation. Now, while warts, with which, by some, condylomata have been confounded, are often undoubt- edly due to such a cause—and to no other, which is essential—condylo- mata can never occur without the pre-existence of the indurated chancre. Evidence of the existence of this will very generally, in male patients, be [found in the presence of the indurated chancre itself, or at least of the indurated cicatrix, as well as of other cutaneous eruptions; and certainly the multiple glandular indurated bubo in the neighbouring lymphatic chain wiU not be wanting. In the female, again, the condy- lomata may be early developed before other cutaneous manifestations have appeared, and the induration of the chancre may even bo already unrecognizable; for in them the site of the chancre is far more likely to be overlooked, and the induration to have been superficial and evanes-