MEDULLARY CANCER. 189 and profuse hemorrhage results, of a dark unwholesome kind ; fearfully aggravating tlie prostration of system, which the previous state of the tumour had already hegun. In the open state, the nature of the formation is sufficiently plain; in the occult, diagnosis is not always easy or sm-e. It is important, there- fore, to bo aware of the external characters, and other signs of the exist- ence of the tumour, from even its earliest formation. Its growth is pecnhar—most rapid; in a few months, or even weeks, the size may have become truly enormous; and very frequently a marked increase, day by day, may be observed. A fallacy, however, is liable to occur as to this point. A simple tumour, deeply seated, and tightly bound by fibrous investment, may simulate some of the characters of the occult medullary tumour very closely; the surgeon, in doubt, manipulates it freely, and, for some time, perhaps daily; he tMnks he observes a marked and rapid increase of size, and by measurement or otherwise he may ascertain that such is actually the case. This last sign he may think conclusive, as to the medidlary nature of the tumour; and he may take his measm'es of treatment, according to that conviction. And yet, had he waited for a few days more, abstaining the meanwhile from further handling of the part, he would have found a subsidence of the increase in bidk, the tumour regaining its former dimensions. The temporary enlargement had resulted from the common products of simple inflam- matory change, the consequence of manipulation. The skin investing the tumour is generally pale, like that of a diseased and chronic articulation ; and usually shews many large veins coursing beneath it. Sometimes, however, the skin is of a brownish hue. At first, it is movable on the tumour; afterwards intimately incorporated with it. The growth itself is not circumscribed and movable, as the simple formations, but fixed and diffused into the surrounding parts. To the touch a sense of great elasticity is imparted ; different from the fluctuation of chronic abscess, and different also from the semi-fluctuation which the fatty tumour exhibits, yet somewhat resembling both ; inso- much that it is not without the tactus eruditus—as well as attention to other signs—that the distinction can always be unerringly made. Occa- sionally, even the most experienced cannot be assured, until after an exploratory puncture. Perhaps they expected pus; but nothing save blood escapes, and that profusely; vascularity and elasticity are demon- strated, not fluctuation. Pain is almost always considerable; often severe and shooting. In some cases, it is at first absent; and then the tumour is usually slow of growth; but when it enlarges in the ordinary manner, as it soon does, the pain becomes developed, • and continues. The patient is obviously cachectic; and bears in his countenance plain tokens of a formidable disease; the features are shrunk and anxious, the hue is sallow, emaciation is begun, the functions of animal life are all disturbed, and hectic is setting in. Wliile scirrhus is comparatively limited to advanced years, this disease is found to occur more frequently in the young; children and adolescents are the ordinary victims. It may occur in any texture ; but is most frequent in the orbit, testicle, mamma, bones, joints, internal viscera, and lymphatic ganglia. In the two last situations, the formation is usually of a secondary character; that is,