190 MEDULLARY CANCER. following on tho appearance, or perhaps the removal hy operation, of a malignant tumour elsewhere. For, as already observed, the disease extends not only by contiguity, involving the adjacent tissues, but also remotely by the lymphatics ; and besides, the system being largely and specially involved—probably as the original part of the malady—there is the same predisposition to the morbid formation in one part as in the other ; and often, cotemporaneously with its external manifestations, the disease may be found reproducing itself, copiously, in one or more of the internal viscera. Sometimes the veins in the neighboui-hood have been found filled with the medullary substance; but whether by simple extension of the tumour, or by conveyance of part of its substance, may be a matter of doubt. Pressure on veins and lymphatics occasions ttjdema of the parts beneath ; compression of adjoining nerves creates intense pain, in addition to that which already existed as an inherent character- istic of the tumour. At first, the nervous trunks are expanded and stretched over the growth; ultimately they are involved in its structure. Occasionally, the disease has been found to extend by means of a nervous trunk j a tumour growing on it, at some distance from the original form- ation, and precisely of the same character. A medullary tumour involv- ing the sciatic nerve, for example, has been followed by a growth of the same kind occurring in the pophteal. It is plain that the only chance of cure is by extirpation, at a com- paratively early period ; when the tumour is small, not deeply or widely connected, the glands free, and the system making but little show of complaint. The dissection must be carefully and leisurely conducted, to ensure entire removal of the whole diseased structure; as the shghtest portion left will certainly cause reproduction, rapidly, and of a worse tumour than the first. Smart hemorrhage is to be expected ; not only from arterial branches, increased in size and activity, but also by oozuig from the general surface. The muscles are usually of a pale and flabby character ; sometimes at certain points, near the tumour, they are the seat of dark discoloration, as if by infiltration of blood. There is also a greater tendency to reactionary hemorrhage, than after simple wounds. The operation having been suitably performed, the question of prog- nosis arises, as regards the probability of retiu'n; a question always of much doubt and difficulty; and never to be answered decidedly in the affirmative. Such a tumour, like a scrofulous swelling or sore, is in the great majority of cases to be viewed not as a disease in itself^ but rather as a manifestation of a constitutional vice, from which other tumoirrs may arise of a similar nature, in the vicinity of the first formed, or else- where. In both cases there is a cachexy, constituting the major part of the evil. That of scrofula is but httle amenable to treatment; the malig- nant and medullary is still less so. And unless that cachexy be removed —an object in this disease unattainable—there can be no certain immu- nity from return. Our duty, however, is very plain; to operate, carefully, in those cases of recent and limited tumour, the circumstances of which seem favourable to success ; to refrain from operation in those advanced cases, where not only deep and important parts ai-e involved, but where both the lymphatic and general systems are plainly implicated, and whore consequently reproduction is certain ; and in all cases to