TREATMENT OF COMPEESSION BY BLOOD, 613 up tissue. 3. Supposing that the extravasation has been reached and exposed, it may be found either difficult or impossible to effect its removal Coagulation has taken place. The fluid portion trickles away at once; but the clot is expanded in the form of a flat and broad layer, ■which cannot be dislodged and extruded without the infliction of such further mechanical injury as shall render the occurrence of disastrous inflammatory accession inevitably certain. 4. Supposing that the coagu- lum has been exposed and not removed, the patient is obviously much more unfavourably situated after than before the operation. Now there is a certainty of inflammatory accession—in addition to the unrelieved evil of compression; and, under the combination, it is but too likely that Hfe may give way. Before, there was but the compression; the inflammatory process might have been averted; the brain, by accommo- dation, might have gradually recovered. Thus, then, we hold, that in the case of compression by extravasated blood, the operation of trephining is to be considered as generally inap- pUcable. No man can be sure that the symptoms are due to extravasa- tion of blood; for concussion of the brain, in its severer forms, will freqxiently give rise to symptoms so closely allied, that diagnosis of the actual structural changes must be a matter of pure hypothesis. Operat- ing, we are uncertain whether or not the trephine is over the site of extravasation; we are uncertain whether it may be necessary to punc- ture the membranes of the brain—and, that having been done, we may still fail ia exposing the blood; we are uncertain ot being able to remove the blood, even after it has been exposed; and we are almost certain to light up an inflammatory process of a most urgent, and perhaps unman- P ageable, character. In other words, we are sure to inflict injury—by perforation, and exposure; we may succeed in counterbalancing this injury by a preponderating amount of benefit—by extrusion of the compressing agent, the escaped blood; but we are fully more likely to fail in obtaining the contemplated advantage ; and then the proceeding proves to be altogether injurious. But to all general rules there are exceptions. And here the excep- tion consists in those cases of injury applied in the course of the middle meningeal artery, immediately followed by urgent symptoms of compres- sion, with or without fracture of the skull, in which we can have little doubt of the following circumstances :—1. That the compression is caused by extravasation of blood, while the symptoms are so urgent and gravescent that, unless relief be afforded, death will speedily ensue; 2. That the blood has been extravasated at or near the point struck; 3. That the extravasation is situate exteriorly to the dura mater; 4. That the blood is yet mainly fluid, and therefore likely to escape readily 1 outwards, on an aperture of communication being established; 6. That H even if it have coagulated, extrusion may yet be effected, without neces- IM sarily exciting inflammatory mischief, either in the brain or in any of its membranes. Under such circumstances, we need not hesitate to apply a trephuie to the injured part, with the full hope of affording most "uportaut and salutary relie!".