630 TREPHINING. right. When the sulcus has advanced to such a depth as is sufficient to retain the saw steady in the groove, the instrument is withdrawn and tlie centre-pin pushed back entirely; to proceed with it still protru'dinc were not only to do what is unnecessary, but also to encounter much risk of injuiy to the dura mater at the latter part of the operation. The plain crown is reapplied, and worked steadily as before. There" is no occasion for hurry; the operation itself, so far as the sawing of the bour- is concerned, is comparatively painless; besides, it is usually undertaken while the patient is insensible; and in those cases where sensibility remains, experience has shewn that anaesthesia by chloroform may U practised with perfect safety. If diploe exist, a change of sound an.] feeling is imparted to the operator, intimating that the saw has passed the external table. Then the instrument is worked very warily; and it is well to remove it from time to time, examining the sulcus vnth a probe or toothpick, to ascertain whether or not at any point section ol the inner table may have been completed. If an aperture be detect* then the instrument, when reappHed, inclined to the opposite side, and movi with increased caution and lightne^ Want of paraUeHsm in the two tables • the skull renders such precautions esseii tial to a safe performance of the opei tion. Section having been completed ; all points, the detached cu'cle is to 1 removed. Perhaps it may come away i the crown of the instrument. If no. dislodgment is elFected by the point a lever, or by forceps; and the circle gently withdrawn:—in this step of tl procedure, as well as in the last of tl sawing, much care being taken to av injury to the dura mater. If any re or sharp points are found on the mar of the aperture, these are to be reino. by the elevator, or the " lenticular" an instrument fitted into most phine cases, and suited for this purpose; otherwise, the dura ma might sustain injury. When the operation is undertaken for elevation of depressed bone, is seldom necessary to remove an entire circle. All that Ave desire room sufficient for raising the depressed portion, and removing fragmei if need be ; and this can usually be accomplished by fixing the cent pin on the brink of the sound bone, and so removing by the saw onl; segment of the circle. While, again, in many cases, all the bone wk is required to be removed, can be cut away by means of bone-cuf forceps or a small saw. The operation, and the object for which it was undertalcen, ha been accomplished, the flaps are carefully replaced, and the gent wound is invested by tepid water-dressing; care being taken that i Fig. 237. Trephining, a, the sonnd portion of cranium ; b, tlie depressed centre-pin fastened on the brink of the soimd portion. Fig. 237.