396 mOGKESS OF ANEUlllSM. tion. Tliis goes to strengthen the cyst; and is quite distinct from the great bulk of the clot, which is loose in the cavity—as also from otlier concentric fibrinous lamina?, with fluid blood playing round and sometimes through them. In consequence of this accumulation of solid fibrin, the pulsation and compressibility of the tumour are aflected. Tlio •former may be somewhat less distinct at certain points than at others, according to the form and density of the clot; and if this be both dense and large, while the aperture of communication between the cyst and artery is small, little diminution of bulk may be effected even by ener- getic pressure. This state of matters, however, is no disadvantage; on the contrary, it is by such change that spontaneous cure is accomplished. The fibrinous deposit, enlarging, may come to occupy almost the whole cavity ; but still something more is wanted. If loose, with fluid blood playing around and between the dense concentric laminae, the cure is yet far distant. One step more is wanted. By agglutination of each layer to the others next it, and of the outer one to the cyst, the inner surface of the sac must be firmly glued to, and ulti- mately incorporated with, the fibrinous mass. Then the cavity is obUterated, the tumour consolidated. There is no room for any more entrance of fresh and fluid blood; this either passes on in its own proper channel, as in health; or, as more frequently happens, the solid tumour re- acts on the arterial canal, biilging into it by gradual deposit of fibrin—obstruct- ing its flow, and inducing ultimate obK- teration at that point. There being no • longer an impulse from within, the re- straining influence from contractile efforts 5 of the adjoining tissues is now unopposed; and thereby gradual subsidence of the tumour, by absorption of the solid contents, is greatly favoured. Ulti- mately, by continuance of absorption, and absence of increase, almost all trace of the tumour has disappeared. The artery is usually found occluded at the site; but sometimes, though seldom, its canal remains still per- vious (Fig. 170). • r 4. 1 The occurrence of such a chain of events, however, is unfortunately rare. In the great majority of cases, unaided by our art, the fibrinous deposit is not agglutinated to the cy.st, and consequently does not solidify the tumour, but merely acts as a partial restraint upon its growth; Fig. 170. Aneurism, hj dilatation. The abnormal spaec almost entirely filknl up hy fibrin ; the arterial eanal romiaining clear. Spontaneous cure in progress; l,ut, to the left, au important defcct-the solid clot not yet iucoqiorated mth the cyst.