851 OPENING OF THE EXTEliNAL JUGULAR VEIN. veil! at its lower part, so as to obtain a reflux flow of Llood from the larger veins and right side of the heart—for example, in cases of cardiac disease, or of great pulmonary engorgement with consequent obstruction to the circulation on the right side of the heart, as occurs in deep coma, in embo- hsm of the pulmonary arteries, and in extensive capillary bronchitis or pneumonia. In cases, again, where air has been admitted into the cir- cidation, it has been proposed to open the right vem, and by it to convey a glass or gum elastic tube of suitable size through the innominate vein into tlie vena cava superior, and so onwards into the right aujicle, with the view of permitting regm-gitant escape, and thus relieving the patient from imminent deatL More commonly, however, this situation has been selected as a means of abstracting blood from the distal extremity of the yein—to serve the convenience of the operator, as in children, when the veins in the arms and legs are deeply seated and difficult of detection— or in cases of inflammatory disease of the head and neck, under the impression that such a plan of venesection relieves more directly not only the surface of the head, but also the interior of the cranium. In per- forming this operation, bulging of the vein is produced in the first instance by pressure of the thumb, applied immediately above the clavicle; and then an incision is made obhquely upwards and outwards over the poste- rior border and in the same direction as the fibres of the sterno-mastoid muscle; this divides the overlying fibres of the platysma myoides across their axis, and a widely gaping external opening, with freedom of flow, is obtained. Thereafter the thumb's pressure may either be maintained, or the edge of the bleeding cup may be made to take its place, so long as the flow of blood is desired; it is then withdrawn; and this circumstance, of it- self, is usually sufficient to arrest the bleeding, except in those cases where regurgitant bleeding is desired. In that case no pressure is needed; the vein bulges spontaneously, and the failing flow of blood shews that the congestion of the right auricle and ventricle is reheved. In checking the hemorrhage it is always well either to place a small com- press on the wound, retaining it by means of a long strip of adhesive plaster, or to transfix the edges of the wound with a fine needle, and teep them in contact with a ligature applied in a figure of 8. During the blood's flow, precaution is advisable to avoid entrance of air into the vein. Of course there is no fear of this taking place when the right side of the heart is over distended. Fig. 295. Venesection in the neck. The external jugular shewn distended by pressure of the thumb, previously to insertion of the lancet.