706 THE OPHTHALMOSCOPE. made sufficient to admit of the introduction of a fine pair of iris forceps, or of the canula forceps ; a portion of the iris between t]ie pupil and the ciliary margin, but nearer the latter, in the line in which the displace- nient is desired to be effected, is picked up and drawn out through the corneal wound. The portion so seized should be about the size of a pin's head. A fine silk thread is now tied round it, so as to retain it protruded until it adheres to the cornea, and remains permanently attached there. In operating for artificial pupil, if the eye is sound and the operation carefully performed, no bleeding of any consequence ensues, no inflam- matory mischief occurs, and when the cornea is healed all danger ig past. Where, however, the iris is diseased, thickened, spongy, tearing through like wet blotting paper, a considerable amount of bleeding may ensue, occupying the anterior chamber, and leaving us in doubt, when it has become absorbed, how the result will tally with our expectations. As to treatment, both eyes should be closed with strips of plaster, and kept so for three days. If then there are no traces of inflammatory access, the patient should be kept in an obscured room, and only by degrees exposed to light—a shade, or veil, and tinted spectacles, marking the progressive steps in the process of recovery, while everything that tends to strain the eyes should be studiously avoided for some time to come. Antiphlogistics are quite unnecessary in most cases—good food and tonics being more generally requisite. When, however, acute ophthal- mitis sets in, as may take place, then appropriate measures to check its progress must be adopted. It should be remembered that at first the new pupil is always larger and more irregular than it afterwards becomes, and that unless extremely large it is well to keep it as open as possible, by the use of atropine (if the iris responds to its application), so long as any tendency to adhesive contraction continues. Tlie Ojilitlialmoscope. In describing the deep-seated inflammatory and structural changes, which occupy the retina and choroid, any enumeration of symptoms which does not include the ophthalmoscopic appearances must be deemed imperfect at the present day. That these may be appreciated, and the. instrument itself applied to diagnosis, it is quite essential that its mode of employment should be perfectly understood, and the natural aspect of the interior of the eye as displayed by means of it thoroughly known. Various forms of the instrument have received the sanction of the highest authorities in ophthalmic surgery. All that is essential, however, is a slightly concave mirror about three inches in diameter, fixed upon at handle, and perforated in the centre by an aperture through which the: observer may look into the eye in the same axis as that of tlie ligh which illuminates its interior. A magnifying lens is also required, so as to increase and concentrate the illumination of the interior of the globe, and at the same time to produce an accurate reflex image of the paiia illuminated, which shall correspond with the most convenient adaptation; of the visual focus of the observer, the position of the mirror, and the site of the light from wliich the reflection is produced. TJiis simpl