1372 AMPUTATION OF THE LEG, Pirogofs Operalion—iw which the tuberosity of the os calcis is sawn off, after preliminary tlisarticulation of the ankle-joint, and retained in tlie heel flap, with the object of its becoming permanently united to the end of the tibia—is liable to the double objection, tliat it makes the stump too long for the comfortable adaptation of an artificial foot, and by presenting the thinly covered posterior surface of the tuberosity to the ground, instead of the thick elastic cushion of the sole, renders the limb much less serviceable than after the ankle-joint amputation. In consequence. Professor Pirogoff has frankly abandoned this operation, preferring Mr. Syme's. ISfevertheless, some operators at the present day continue to experiment upon tlieir patients by its performance, to the manifest detriment of the surgical art. Amputation of the Leg Is chiefly required for injuries, gangrene, and malignant disease. Near the ankle, a fleshy stump is not to be obtained in thin persons ; and in these, consequently, it has hitherto been considered necessary to cut somewhat higher than otherwise might have been desired ; " The site of election " being, for division of the bones, four inches below the tuberosity of the tibia. On the other hand, there are stout limbs— their rotundity mainly caused by a solid oedema—in which it is desirable to amputate low down, in order to avoid redundancy of soft parts. In amputating low down in the leg, a modification of Mr. Teale's amputa- tion seems to afi"ord satisfactory results, and to be well suited to lesions of the foot, in which the soft parts of the heel are so injured as to pre- clude the adoption of amputation at the anlde. Hemorrhage is restrained by pressure on the popliteal, by means of a tourniquet, if one is at hand ; or by the fingers of an assistant pressing on the femoral artery, as it passes over the brim of the pelvis. The patient is laid on a firm table, of convenient height, with the limbs pro- jecting over its edge; the sound ankle is secured to the leg of the table by means of a towel—the work of an additional assistant being thus spared ; and the doomed limb is supported by an assistant seated in front. The surgeon, feehng the exact outHne of the bones, at the part where they are to be divided, makes sure that he has sound integumental tissues below that point, equal in length to the diameter of the limb. He next carries the point and edge of a short amputating knife downwards, along the posterior margin of the bone furthest from him, to nearly the indi- cated extent; curving the incision forwards across the front of the limb, in a semilunar direction. He then turns the point and edge of the knife upwards along the posterior margin of the bone nearest hiru, and terminates the incision precisely opposite the spot at which the knife began its course. This flap, so marked out, is raised along mth all the muscles in the interosseous space. To raise them, and at the same time to secure himself against inflicting an injury upon the anterior tibial artery, the knife is used only to separate the muscles from tlie bones on each side ; the fingers pushing them away from the interosseous membrane till the flap is fully retracted. The soft parts upon the back of the leg are next divided, by a transverse sweep of the knife tliat unites