AFFECTIONS OF THE LACHllYMAL GLAND, 671 Fig. 245. Atrophy of the Laclmjmal Gland may take place, but this is very Irare ; the organ ultimately becoming almost eiraced. Then either xeroma results ; or the conjimctival secretion is augmented, to atone for the lalandular deficiency. Tumours of various kinds may form in the substance of the gland, lit is liable to simple hypertropliy ; amenable to discutients. Sometimes it is tlie seat of cystic formation; remediable by simple puncture—or, if that fails, by injection or excision. The secretion of some portion of the lachrymal gland may cause obstruction of one of the ducts ; becoming jollected in quantity, dilating the duct, and giving rise to the formation jf a cystic tumour called Dmrxjops, which j)rojects through the upper lid. By ^ndely opening the eye, or, still better, by everting the lid, the largin of the cyst may be seen to project from beneath it. All that [s needed seems to be to seize this with catch-forceps, and clip away much of the cyst-wall as can be easily removed; the after-employment jf a stimulating coUyrium, or solution of nitrate of silver, will very Ipeedily restore the parts to their normal condition. Carcinoma may Ittack the gland. There is obviously no hope but from early removal. le extirpation should be effected by an incision beneath the eyebrow, [long the margin of the outer part of the frontal portion of the orbit. le fascia of the orbit having been divided along the whole extent [f the incision, the gland should be separated by the finger or the handle the knife, from the roof of the orbit. A sharp hook, or volsella, should len be fixed in its substance; and as it is drawn out through the round, the adhesions it has formed to the surrounding contents of the rbit should be divided as they are brought into view. In doing this, 16 levatoi' palpehrce muscle must be avoided. When the bleeding has jased, the incision should be closed with, points of suture, and a pad iced over the closed lids. This is secured by means of a bandage, to laintain the globe repressed, and the contents of the orbit in contact ith its upper wall—a vacant space else existing where the tumour was lated. If suppuration occur, the sutures should be removed at the iter angle ; and, if the matter collects in the deep part of the wound, per the incision should be extended outwards and downwards, or the itter should be afforded a free vent by a fresh puncture from the con- ictival aspect of the upper Hd. Encanthis. By this term is meant an enlargement of the caruncula lachrymalis ; maybe a simple and somewhat acute en- - - Jrgemcnt of the part, the result of an in- jmmatory process resident therein. This jU readily give way to ordinary treatment tscarification, or leeching, fomentation, and fhefacioDts. A chronic swclHng, of the nature of hyper- lp% or simple tumour, or polypoid excres- |ce, may occur j loss amenable to discussion, and often resisting it. Fig. 2i:>. Kiicaiitliis.