NECROSIS. 30G Such is necrosis. It may be partial and External. Then the seques- trum has its peculiar characters. As formerly stated, the doomed portion usually parts rapidly Avitli vitality, at an early period of the disorder; ere it has time to undergo change. And, accordingly, it presents, on its removal, the usual appearances of tlie external, dense, laminated texture of bone; as if it were part of a macerated skeleton. But it is rough and irregular at its lo^yev and lateral aspects; Avhere, by the process of degenerative transformation into a soft granulation-tissue in the surround- ing bone, it has been slowly and unequally separated from the living part. Or necrosis may be partial and Internal. Then the sequestrum is very distinctive of its original site; being not only open as ordinary cancellous texture, but also rough and scabrous at every point; shewing no surface of a smooth and laminated character—unless it be the com- paratively smooth internal surface of the medullary canal. Or the entire thiclmess is included; the sequestrum consisting of a portion of the bone which is rough and irregular at either extremity ; but in other respects seeming as if artificially removed from the skeleton. And thus, according to its situation and extent, a sequestrum, like its parent ostitis, is termed Internal, External, or General. Symptoms.—The symp>toms of necrosis are, at first, those of acute ostitis. Suppuration having occurred, these are aggravated; no relief following the suppurative crisis, as sometimes happens in the soft tissues; for here the first investment of the pus is invariably dense and unjdeld- ing. But relief comes with evacuation of the matter ; whether effected by nature or by art. By the former, the process is tedious, and abate- ment of the symptoms proportionally slow; by the latter, if early and efficiently fidopted, relief is both instant and great. All the sm-rounding soft parts are very much involved, from the beginning : at first con- solidated, as well as tliickened and enlarged; afterwards the seat of suppuration, more or less extensive, sometimes diffuse, more frequently limited by fibrinous condensation. The matter is discharged, usually, throiTgh several apertures ; the number generally bearing a proportion to the extent of the disease. Through the papillse and cloacae the presence of the dead portion of bone is detected; and its condition as to detachment may be fi'om time to time ascertained, by the use of a probe—or, what is better, by intro- ducing the finger, should space permit. When the sequestrum is inter- nal, it is felt rough, yet dense; when external, it is felt smooth and solid, except at the circumference, where, by the sulcus of separation, the bone has been rendered rough and irregidar. During the stage of separation, and the concomitant one of repara- tion, discharge is continued; usually copious ', and invariably fretid, as before stated. In consequence of such discharge, the constitutional symptoms which during the ostitis, both simple and suppurative, may have shcAvn all the characters of acute inflammatory fever, often intense, may change now into hectic. Or, in strong systems, almost aU trace of febrile disturbance may pass away. But the local inflammatory process has not yet subsided. So long as the foreign body—as the sequestrum truly is—remains unextruded,