THE MERCURIAL TREATMENT. 1189 he finds, from his large clinical experience, that with slight modifica- tions, to suit the various cases to which it is applied, the happiest results can be thus obtained in neutralizing the virus—in curing its existing, and in preventing its as yet undeveloped, manifestations. Such a rule is certainly more satisfactory than that of the late Mr. Colles, who inculcated the full administration of merciuy for a few days after all hardness of the cicatrix had been removed, with moderate ptyalism kept up for a month afterwards. Mercurials introduced hy the Cutaneous Surface.—Mercurial Inunc- tion consists in the employment of repeated frictions of the strong or weak "blue ointment" into those parts of the body where the skin is naturally soft, and incHned to absorb the remedy. In em- ploying the mercurial inunction, it must be recollected, that although highly prized by the Germans, it is a dirty and inconvenient process ; chiefly suited for cases where there is no urgency in the symptoms, and where the internal use of mercurials gives rise to much irritation. If the season can be chosen during which it is employed, spring or summer should be preferred; and a course of warm bathing should be employed as a preliminary. The frictions may be made either by the patient, or by an attendant; in the latter instance, the hands of the rubbers should be protected against the risk of mercurial absorption by means of bladders softened in oil. The strong mercurial ointment should be preferred, except when the skin is tender, and easily made irritable by the application—mercurial eczema, or a pustular eruption, tending to appear. The inner side of the thighs, the groins, the flanks, the anus, and the axillae, are in turn the parts to which the inunction is usually applied. The frictions are best made at night, before the fire, after the patient has undressed for bed, the quantity of ointment varying from a scruple to a drachm; the parts are then covered with flannel during the night. In the morning, the remains of the oint- ment are removed by means of a warm bath and soap ; after which the patient should lie in bed covered closely with blankets, and a warm drink may be given to produce perspiration. The patient should ^ be confined to bed for half the day; and while the clothes and body linen are frequently changed, and ventilation provided for, the room should be kept warm. The diet must be of the very simplest kind ; tobacco and all stimulants are forbidden. Tliis process may require to be continued for forty days ; but from twenty to thirty usually suffice (Sigmund). In this country, while inunction is frequently used with very satisfactory results, the confinement and restrictions mentioned as part of the treatment employed in Vienna, can rarely be enforced. A modification of the system, which is found very useful in chikben and infants, consists in the continuous application of blue ointment to the cutaneous surface, spread upon lint, and covered with flannel. In some special cases, the gum and mercurial plaster may be advantageously used, with the view of securing a double eflect—in part on the system, and in part on some local lesion. Mercurial Baths.—By some the effect of the warm bath in deter- mining cutaneous action, is combined with the use of mercurials. 1. By the addition of a solution of the bichloride of mercury to the com-