16 INFLAMMATORY FEVER AND APPEARANCES IN BLOOD. ordinarily, the uterus is found sympathising with the mamma; one eye with the other ; and internal organs, such as the lungs or duodenum, with extensive ulcerations on the surface. Injlammatoi'y Fever and appearances in the Blood. But the disease extends not only from one part to anotherit also spreads from a part to the system. It seems not unreasonable to suppose that the local irritation may be extended through the nervous system to the centre of the circulation, while heated blood constantly flowing fi-om the part warms up the whole mass of that fluid; and that so constitu- tional disorder—or inflammatory fever—is established. The premonitory symptoms of coldness and shivering are usually very decided, but not of long duration. They are succeeded by a stage of re-action, in which the accelerated and hard full pulse, thirst, and increased heat of surface, are so great in comparison with the other symptoms, as to indicate excitement of the sanguineous system as the most prominent characteristic of this type of fever. It presents few fluctuations or remissions; its accession and crisis are usually very distinctly marked, the latter being accompanied in the great majority of eases by sweating; and the return to health is usually satisfactory and rapid, when the cause of the disease has ceased to act. It is to be recollected, however, that there is no absolute line in nature between this and any other type of fever; and that, moreover, the purest inflammatory fever, when protracted beyond a certain period, is sure to undergo altera- tion into some other and more fatal type of febrile disorder. Inflammatory fever begins with symptoms of depression ; the patient feeling much discomfort, and yet unable to specify his ailment. Then a rigor, or fit of shivering occurs, followed by a sensation of much heat over the whole surface. This is the harbinger of re-action ; the mark— and a practical one of great importance—that the circulation has shaken off the temporary depressing influence, and is rousing itself into energy of action. Then it is that remedies are of most avail. That opportmiity, well taken advantage of, is usually at once decisive of a fortunate issue; but permit it to pass unemployed, and the same remedies, augmented even tenfold, may fail to avert disaster. It is convenient to consider the disorder of the general frame ac- cording to its Systems.—1. The Nervous. There are aching duU pains in the loins and limbs; there is restlessness, and vnth much discomfort a variety of posture is practised in vain search for ease; both the will and the power of exertion are diminished; anxiety, or foreboding of evil, is felt, and its expression is given by the featui'es; the head generally is hot; at first, special sensation is exalted; by and by, the intellectual functions are more or less disturbed; ultimately delirium is established, and coma may ensue; the face is flushed, the eyes suffused, the skin hot and dry.—2. The Vascular. Disorder here is cliiefly indi- cated by the pulse. It is increased in frequency—ranging from 80 to 130 or more ; and the heart's action is proportionally rapid. The pulse is hard, rolling like a cord below the finger, and yielding but little to its pres- sure j—often communicating • the sensation of a thrill or jar. Tliero is