8G8 LATIYNGITIS. example in tlio effort at coiigliing, in sounding a low, and then a liigh note, in raaldng a partial eflbrt at swallowing, and lastly, in taking several long deep inspirations. Dnring this last manoeuvre the glottis is widely thrown open, and with careful management the surgeon can easily recognize the tracheal rings; and in favourable circumstances—which import a steady patient, a good light, a capacious glottis, and perpendicu- lar straightening of the neck—the bifurcation of the trachea can even be observed. In order to acquire faciHty in manipulating, auto-laryngo- scopy should be diligently practised; sun light, a common hand mirror, and the ordinary large-sized and square-shaped faucial mirror being em- ployed. The experimenter should sit with his back to the window, rest- ing his left elbow on a chair, in his left hand managing the ordinary mirror, and in the right manipulating the faucial one. Till he has gained a confidence in his powers of easy recognition of the parts concerned, he need not attempt laryngoscopy on others. He must, however, bear in mind that the image he sees of his own larynx in auto-laryngoscopy is " uprightwhile in examining the larynx of his patient, the reflexion in the faucial mirror is inverted, so that what seems right is really lefi^ and vice versa. This is chiefly important in operative proceedings, where this instrument is employed as a means of effecting accurate manipulation. There are no doubt patients, in whom the excessive and persistent irrita- bility of the fauces prevents the introduction of the faucial mirror. In others, at first impracticable, the difficulty may to some extent be over- come by repeated efforts, or by the employment of smaller sizes of mirror, less apt to incommode the arches of the palate. In others, the use of astringent apphcations, such as tannin or nitrate of silver, to the fauces may be of service ; or the throat may be gargled, just before the attempt, with cold or iced water. In some, the bromide of ammonium administered for some hours previously, in large doses, seems to produce a diminution of the faucial sensibility. In others, especially when opera- tive manipulations are to be employed, chloroform may be inhaled with advantage ; not, however, carried so far as to induce unconsciousness, but only to act locally on the parts with which its vapour first comes in cou- tact, and thus to dull the faucial, pharyngeal, and laryngeal irritabiUty. Laryngitis. The inflammatory process, occurring in the larynx, may be either chronic or acute. 1. Acute Laryngitis, a. Laryngitis simplex.—Tliere is, in tins affection, more or less aphonia, from turgescence of the mucous membrane, with the accustomed change of secretion—tlie results of a minor amount of the inflammatory process. On examination with the laryngoscope, the soft lax mucous membrane may show the swelling diffused uniformly, and not at any part great; or the margin of the true vocal cords and the sinuses of Morgagni may alone be affected, one side often more than the other. When vocalisation is attempted, the parts come irregu- larly together, and the hissing sound of tlie voice is obviously due to the incomplete approximation of tlie arytenoid cartilages and processosa permitting too free an escape of air through the chink of the larynx.i