15 EXTENSION OF THE INFLAMMATOKY PROCESS. and lymphatics, common to all the textures impHcated, may serve to explain the extension of the process. But we meet with examples which cannot he accounted for in this way, as, e.g., when the pleurisy excited by a broken rib affects not only the pleura adjacent to the injured bone, but also the pidmonary pleura with which it is in contact; or when a local peritonitis, caused by ulceration of the intestines, excites structural change terminating in adhesion with some distant portion of the serous surface with which it merely comes in apposition. In such cases, the inflammatory products act as a source of ii*ritation to those parts with which they are contiguous ; an explanation which may also serve to ac- count for the extension of inflammatory affections on continuous surfaces in one direction rather than another. The more rapid the attainment to the suppurative crisis in the part first attacked, the more likely is the disease to extend, and that quickly, to those in the neighbourhood ; for its advance is unopposed by attendant change of structure. In the formation of an ordinary acute abscess, the progress is gradual; and the central portion is surrounded not only by serous accumulation, but by a dense fibrinous mass filling up, and as it were fortifying the previously loose tissue, and exerting a restraining influence on both the extension of the disease and the diffusion of its products. In phlegmonous erysipelas, on the contrary, the crisis is much more speedily attained, there is no such salutary barrier, and the sur- rounding texture remains open and defenceless. The consequent mis- chief is great and often irreparable. The hmiting fibrin is either not formed or not retained, the affection being of an asthenic kind from the first. 3. Extension of the inflammatory process may be Remote—that is, the part secondarily involved is at a distance from the original site of disease; and the intervening parts are unaffected. This may be effected by 1. the Blood. This fluid, as formerly seen, emerges from the inflam- ing part, changed, as from a laboratory; and circulating thus altered to other and distant parts, may itself become the exciting cause of perver- sion there. In this way some would explain the metastases which are so frequently met with in gouty and rheumatic inflammatory affections. And the purulent formations—in other words, unusually rapid and acute abscesses—occurring in connection with certain forms of phlebitis, at a distance from the affected vein, may be in like manner accounted for. 2. By the agency of lymphatic Absorption. A part is inoculated by a hurtful virus ; an inflammatory process results in the injured part; besides, a portion of the virus has been carried on by absorption, and becomes arrested in the first lymphatic gland, there exciting an inflam- matory process which terminates in suppuration—while, it may be, the conducting apparatus is itself almost or altogether unscathed. Thus, a poisoned wound of the finger causes first superficial paronychia, and then glandular abscess of the axilla, sometimes without much apparent affection of the intervening lymphatics. When they suffer, the case is I)lainly an example of continuous as well as of remote extension. 3. P.y Nervous agency. By this, sympathy of function is maintained between distant parts in healthy by the same agency, sympathy of disorder may be established in disease. Thus, morbidly as well as