81 CICATRIZATION. The newly formed pellicle, Avlien completed,'is termed the Gicatrix; at fii-st redder than the surroiuidiiig parts, thin, spongy, and tender ; hut gradually hecoming pale, more dense, less acutely sensitive, and dimin- islxing in extent hy the process of contraction, as just explained; ulti- mately, where complete contraction has taken place,^it hecomes depressed, puckered, and firm, not more sensitive than the surrounding parts, and paler in its hue—for its permanent organization and vascularization are less perfect. The true cutis is too complicated a texture to he repro- duced in a perfect form. As has heeu well remarked hy Mr. Travers, the new formation is oidy a copy, and like all copies inferior to the original. It has heen stated that the new cuticular formation commences at the free margin of the skin, and is thence centripetally extended. Such is the general rule. No points of cicatrix spring up from the granulations, and, enlarging, gradually coalesce with the advancing marginal develop- ment. In many indolent superficial ulcers, especially when these are the result of hums, there is a semhlance of this ; hut only a semhlance. Where the central islands of skin appear in these cases, the old integument had not heen wholly destroyed ; and it is from^the'^remains of original cutis vera that such insular pellicles have heen formed, not from granulations altogether recent. As a general rule, integument is formed hy and from integument. Eut it is well to hear in mind that exceptions may and do occur. For instance, when there has heen much loss of suhstance, undouhtedly involving the entire thickness of the cutis to a considerahle extent, as in the case of ulcers, due to constitutional causes, part of the formation of the cicatrix may he effected in the usual way; or the process of ulceration may still continue extending the limits of the sore at the margin, while a cuticular film may he seen com- mencing at one or more points near the centre, and spreading towards the circumference. But this is to he regarded as an exception to the normal course hy which cicatrization is effected. After cicatrization is complete, the work of ahsorption and contrac- tion still continues for some considerahle time; gradually diminishing the amount of new texture, and sometimes, as already stated, in cases of mere solution of contmuity effected hy a cutting instrument, hringing the primitive tissues into almost ahsolute contact. The new material, in this respect, hears a strong analogy to the temporary callus in fracture. The heahng process resulting from the cicatrization of a granulating surface may he ohstructed hy various circumstances. The advanced inflammatory process, its most formidahle foe, is fatal to it. Plastic formation is arrested. And hesides, all new structures heing of feehle vitality, and consequently prone to ulceration, this foUows on tiie in- flammatory reaccession; granulation is not only hindered, hut undone; and what has heen abeady raised in repair is disintegrated, and crumhles away. Nor wiU the process of repair he again restored, until the advanced mflammatory process, and with it ulceration, have satisfactorily suhsided Un the other hand, an ohstacle may arise from deficient, instead of exces- sive formative power; there is a want of new material; out of nothing, nothmg comes; and the chasm remains unclosed. But this part of the subject will he hetter elucidated, when treating in detail of the various Kinds of ulcer.