NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. 102 fig. 21): the angle of union becomes more acute as it approaches towards d. The prominence of this angle on the mesial line constitutes what is called the pomum Adami, which is more developed in the male than in the female sex, and becomes more conspicuous after the age of puberty; it may be readily felt in the living subject. On the four posterior angles of the thyroid are situated four cornua, or horns ; two superior, b, b, and two inferior, c c, (fig. 21); they appear mere prolong- ations of the posterior margins; the superior being longer than the inferior are called the great horns; they are articulated to the os hyoides by ligaments, which allow a motion for the approximation and recession of the la- rynx to and from the os hyoides. The inferior horns are shorter, curved forwards, and arti- culated at their extremities to the cricoid by oblique planes, directed forwards and inwards. On each wing of the thyroid there are two tubercles, one on the superior, and the other on the inferior margin (g, g, and h, h, Jig 21). The superior tubercles are the largest. A small ridge passes obliquely across the external sur- face of the wings from g to //, extending from the base of one tubercle to the other, dividing each wing into two unequal segments, of which three-fourths are anterior and superior, and one-fourth posterior and inferior to the ridge. The anterior margin of the ridge gives attach- ment to the hyo-thyroid, and lies under the sterno-hyoid muscles, and the posterior to the inferior constrictor of the pharynx and sterno- thyroid muscles. The posterior or hollow surface of the angle formed by the junction of the aire of the thy- roid gives attachment on each side of the me- sial line to the thyro-arytenoid ligaments (chorda vocales) and muscles. The wings are concave internally for the lodgement of the thyro-arytenoidei and crico-arytenoidei laterales muscles, and give attachment at their poste- rior margins to the membrane of the pharynx. The superior margin of each wing is curved in the line i, a, i, (fig. 21,) and gives at- tachment in its whole length to the thyro- hyoid membrane: it is deeply notched at a, immediately above the pomum Adami. It is less deep, and more broad and round in women than in men. Near the superior tubercles there is a notch, sometimes a foramen for the transmission of the superior laryngeal nerve. The inferior margin of the thyroid is nearly horizontal, and is shorter than the superior: there is a slight prominence at a, (fig. 21,; to which is attached the crico-thyroid ligament. Between the in- ferior tubercles at h, h, (fig. 21,) and the in- ferior cornua, the lower margin is arched rather deeply. The posterior surface and margin of the wings of the thyroid are ridged, and give attachment to several muscles ; it rests against the vertebral column, which forms a base to the arc of the thyroid, and protects the internal structure of the larynx. The arytenoid cartilages. Syn.: Gr. k%vtouiioh$y)i;, Galen ; Lat. Cartilagines ary- tenoidem ; Fr. Cartilages aryteno'ides ; Germ. Giessbeckenknorpel.—The arytenoid cartilages are two very irregularly formed bodies, situated on the articulating surface of the posterior, inner, and upper margin of the cricoid, (b, b, fig. 20,) in such a manner as to resemble the mouth of an ewer ; hence their name. They may be considered of a triangular or pyramidal figure, having their bases spread out, (a and a, fig. 22,) and presenting surfaces for the attach- ment of ligaments and the action of muscles. We observe, 1, on their posterior aspect, triangular concave surfaces, between f and e, (fig. 22,) occupied by the oblique and trans- verse arytenoid muscles. 2. Anteriorly, con- vex, triangular surfaces, d, b, (fig. 22,) with Fig. 22. A side view of the arytenoid cartilages, a, the base and position of the crico-arytenoid articulating grooves ; b, e, the posterior concave surface ; c, the lateral prominence ; f, the corniculum laryngis j g, the vertical portion of the cuneiform cartilage. ridges, (b, fig. 27,) for the attachment of the superior thyro-arytenoid ligaments. 3. La- terally, cavities for the insertion of the thyro- arytenoid muscles, and lodgment of the cunei- form cartilages, (g,fig. 22). 4. Internally, surfaces reciprocally parallel, lined with mu- cous membrane, which permit their close ap- proximation. 5. Bases, on which are oblique, curved, oval grooves, a and a, (fig. 22,) cor- responding to the articulating surfaces of the cricoid ; there are also on each of these bases two prominences, one lateral, (c, fig. 22,) which gives attachment (/, fig. 27,) to the crico-arytenoideus lateralis and posticus mus- cles ; the other anterior, giving attachment (V, fig. 29) to the inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament. The latter prominence projects over the vocal tube one-fifth of an inch in the male, and one-seventh in the female. On the sum- mit of the vertical prominences (f,,f,fig. 22) is situated a small appendage called corniculum laryngis. The arytenoid cartilages have ex- tensive freedom of motion, consisting of a rota- tory, round the articulating axis of the cricoid, O, P (fig. 30); and a sliding motion, trans- verse to their axis of articulation about the point B (fig. 30). The cornicula laryngis.—Syn. Capitula San- torini ; tubercles of Santorini ; cartilagines corniculis; Santorinischer Knorpel, Germ. These are two very small cartilaginous bodies first described by Santorini, from whom they de- rive their name. Their figure is nearly triangular with a flat smooth surface at their bases, arti dilated with some freedom of motion to the apices of the arytenoid cartilages. They