118 ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. ment, and the part is even painful on pressure externally; every attempt to swallow is so dreadfully distressing that patients will suffer to be half-famished rather than attempt to get down a spoonful of fluid. In attempting to examine the throat there is often great diffi- culty, because the patient either cannot, or from the pain it occasions, will not open his mouth; but if it can be seen, it is observed to be of a deep red colour, verging on purple, sometimes diffused over the surface, sometimes in patches, and even from an early period abundantly covered by a thick glairy tenacious mucus that it is difficult to wipe from it. If the disease is severe, the membrane soon be- comes sloughy : " the colour of the slough is grey or ashey : in some few instances it appears brown; its edges are abrupt and well defined, and it is surrounded by inflammation of an intensely deep red colour. The slough is in general slow in separating, and when thrown off it appears to resemble a membrane of viscid lymph not unlike the adventitious substance formed in croup, and the surface underneath looks of a bright red colour, is nearly level with the adjoining parts of the membrane, and seems more like the blush of erythema than the relic of mortification. I believe that wher- ever croup has appeared to have been conta- gious it will be found that malignant scarla- tina has prevailed also; and that the occur- rence of the laryngeal or tracheal disease was occasioned by the spreading of the inflamma- tion from the fauces to the windpipe, or per- haps by the actual presence of one of these sloughing ulcers in the immediate neighbour- hood of the glottis."* Such is the description of the effects of an- gina maligna on the mucous membrane written in the year 1825, but without any suspicion on the part of the writer that it could ever be ranged by the side of the affection termed croup : for besides the essentially opposite characters of the fever in each, which by them- selves would be all-sufficient, there are the following differences. The angina maligna, diphtherite, or by what other appellation it is to be known,—for with respect to it we enjoy a most happy abundance of nomenclature,—com- mences always in the fauces, and when it at- tacks the windpipe, which is by no means very frequent, it does so secondarily by spreading to it; whereas croup seldom or never com- mences in the fauces unless when it appears as the sequela of some serious injury, such as the swallowing of boiling water. Cynanche ma- ligna even locally is not confined to the mucous membrane, as is evidenced by the intense pain in swallowing, the difficulty of opening the mouth, the enlargement, suppuration, and even gangrene of some of the adjacent glands; and it occasionally exhibits something like a me- tastatic transfer of disease to some important organ, such as the brain or liver. And even when recovery takes place, the difference is still remarkable: it is slow, often imperfect, * Potter on the larynx and trachea, p. 17. and followed by anasarca or some similar evi- dence of a broken and cachectic habit. This is not the place to enter more fully into the examination of these two diseases, which the reader will find admirably contrasted in Dr. W. Stokes' work on diseases of the chest, where the angina is spoken of under the name of secondary croup. There remain two other affections of the larynx to be noticed accompanied by asthenic fever, in both of which the pathological con- dition of the submucous tissue is of great im- portance, viz. erysipelas and diffuse inflamma- tion. I believe the larynx is very seldom the primary or original seat of an erysipelatous attack, at least such has not come under my observation ; but I have not infrequently seen it seized either by the spreading of the disease from the head and face, or by some species of metastasis. The constitutional symptoms during life are of a low and typhoid character; the local, those of painful and difficult deglutition and respiration, and the termination (as far as I know) always fatal. Nor are the appear- ances after death always satisfactory, for, as in other cases of erysipelas, the tumefaction often subsides and the colour fades very soon after death. In most instances, however, we find the mucous membrane of a pale yellow colour and apparently greatly thickened: the sub- mucous tissue filled sometimes with serum, sometimes with a gelatinous lymph, and some- times with a sloughy and putrid matter; the natural folds of the organ obliterated, and the rima more or less blocked up and closed by the thickening and tumefaction of the adjacent parts. But one of the most curious affections to which the larynx is liable is that of diffuse in- flammation. I say " curious," because it is not necessary that the mucous membrane should be inflamed or thickened or otherwise engaged, or that there should be any remarkable swel- ling of the parts, and yet the breathing is harsh, sibilous, or croupy, as if from the presence of some mechanical obstruction. In these cases, which are always fatal, the cellular tissue is the seat of the disease, and is found filled with offensive purulent matter and flakes of unor- ganized lymph, sometimes around the larynx, trachea, and oesophagus, sometimes at the front of the throat, and not infrequently extending to a considerable distance down into the ante- rior mediastinum. Chronic inflammation of the mucous mem- brane of the larynx resembles in its effects a similar form of disease in other structures, ex- cept that as the aperture of the glottis is small, and its functions essential to life, the same de- gree of alteration or of disorganization cannot have place here that may occur in other situa- tions without the patient generally experiencing a degree of distress that will at least direct his attention to the subject. Still is this affection sufficiently insidious, and its progress in many instances so slow, that often irremediable mis- chief is produced before assistance is sought for: and thus it happens that we are obliged to speak of chronic inflammation, not with re-