MARSUPIALIA. 292 Fig. 114. hemispheres are penetrated by an- fractuous fissures. In the Wombat a large longitudi- nal fissure bounds the outer side of the natifbrm pro- tuberance and ol- factory tract at the base of the brain ; from the anterior moiety of this fis- sure three or four smallerones curve upwards upon the sides of the hemi- spheres. On the upper surface a short transverse fissure marks off what may be regarded as the anterior lobe of the cerebrum, and behind this each hemi- sphere exhibits a few detached shallow fissures. In the Kangaroo (Jig. 115) these fissures be- come continuous and are deeper; a long and nearly transverse anfractuosity divides the upper surface of the hemisphere; behind the shorter fissure which marks off the anterior lobe, and between the two transverse fissures there is a longitudinal one bounding a con- volution that runs parallel with the median interspace of the hemispheres. The ante- rior lobes are also broken by small fissures; two or three long and moderately deep ones ascend upon the sides of the hemi- spheres (a), and the posterior portion (6) presents occasionally small detached fissures. So far therefore as the external surface is con- Pig. 115. Brain of IJasyurm msinus. cerned, the brains of the herbivorous Marsu- pials are more complicated than those of any of the Rodent Mammalia. The cerebellum presents the usual close-set, sub-parallel, trans- verse convolutions: it is remarkable for the large proportional size of the median or vermi- form lobe, as compared with the lateral lobes, especially in the carnivorous and insectivorous Marsupials, where this condition is associated with a corresponding diminution of their com- missural band or ' pons Varolii,' as is shown in the view of the base of the brain of an Opos- sum (fig. 116, b). Fig. 116. Brain of Didelphya Vir- giniana. Brain of Macropus major. In the Kangaroos, PerameleSjPhalangers, and Koala the hemis- pheres or lateral lobes of the cerebellum are characterized by a small subspherical lateral process or appendage (c, c,Jig.\\5), which is lodged in a peculiar fossa of the petrous bone above the internal meatus: there are cor- responding but less produced processes in the Dasyures and Opossums, but they are not developed in the Wombat. On the upper surface of the cerebellum the medullary substance appears superficially at a small tract between the ver- miform processes, marked with an asterisk in figures 115 and 117. The simple disposi- tion of the arbor vitae is shown in Jig. 118, /. Behind the pons Varolii are seen the two trapezoid bodies (c, Jig. 116); and the corpora pyramidalia (d) are always clearly distin- guishable from the corpora olivaria. The crura cerebri, which, in the Opossum (e,Jig. 116) are left exposed below, like the optic lobes above, by reason of the small proportional size of the cerebrum, are more completely concealed in the brain of the Kangaroo and Wombat. The nati- form protuberances form a great proportion of the under part of the cerebral hemispheres in all the Marsupials; their external boundary, which is basial in the Wombat and Kangaroo, runs along the side of the hemispheres to the outer side of the olfactory lobe in the Opossum. The inner root of the olfactory nerve forms a bulbous or ganglionic enlargement (Jig. 116, * b). Behind the commissure of the optic nerves is seen a broad and short infundibulum supporting the pituitary gland (d, fig. 118), and posterior to this is the single corpus albi- cans. The optic lobes are solid, and are each divided by a transverse fissure, as in the Pla- cental Mammalia; the anterior divisions or 4 nates ' (B,Jig.l\7) have a greater longitudinal diameter than the posterior ones or ' testes,' which have a greater transverse development. The difference in the relative development of the nates and testes is much less in the herbi- vorous and carnivorous Marsupials than in the corresponding Placental quadrupeds.