107 NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. Fig. 27. Fig- 28. A side view of the larynx, the left wing of the thyroid and the mucous membrane removed, and the fibres of the arytenoid muscle depressed to expose the liga- ments and chink of the glottis. a, the internal surface of the right wing of the thyroid ; b b, the arytenoid cartilages; c, the thyro- arytenoid ligament; d, the thyro-arytenoideus muscle; d', the thyro-arytenoideus superior vel minor; e e, the crico-arytenoidei postici; /, the crico-arytenoideus lateralis ; n, the cricoid carti- lage ; h, the trachea; I, the external prominence of the arytenoid cartilage. attachment or muscles appropriated to fix it as a fulcrum for motions in an opposite sense. The crico-arytenoideus lateralis is an irregu- lar quadrilateral muscle, arising from the supe- rior margin of the cricoid, from thence passing upwards and backwards, (f,fig. 28). It is in- serted into the posterior surface of the external prominence of the arytenoid cartilage by a tendon common to it and the thyro-arytenoid muscle. It is deeply seated under cover of the thyroid car- tilage and crico-thyroid muscle. The action of this muscle has caused much diversity of opi- nion. Cowper, Ualler, Magendie, and others consider that it opens the glottis; but Bichat and Soemmering that it closes it. Its action has, however, been mechanically solved in the following manner by Willis. The arytenoid cartilage is loosely fixed to the cricoid by liga- ments already described at 13 (figs. 28 and 29). The direction of the force of this muscle is represented by the line N X (fig. 30), having its point of insertion into the cricoid about X. The fibres in passing thence to the arytenoid (f, fig. 28) lie nearly parallel to the projection of the axis of motion, G C ; the tension of this muscle in the direction N X (figs. 29 and 30) A section of the larynx similar to tluit of fig. 27, with the thyro-arytenoideus muscle removed to give a full view of the thyro-arytenoid ligaments, and the rima glottidis lying in the direction of A and B. The line G C is the vertical projection of the crico- arytenoid articulating axis; cc,f, g,h, represent the same parts as in fig. 27. tends to bring N X B into the same straight line and approximate the point V to the mesial plane; and as N is above the line joining B X, it will depress N and still more V, because the cartilage turns on the articulating surface be- neath Q. The action, therefore, of this muscle is to approximate the anterior arytenoid promi- nences and depress them. The arytenoideus (obliquus and transversus). Modern anatomists consider this as one muscle, but owing to the obliquity of the fibres of one of its fasciculi with respect to the other, some have made a division of it into arytenoideus obliquus and a transversus. It is a very short thick muscle, occupying the concavities on the posterior surface of the arytenoid cartilages and the interval between them. It consists of two layers; the superficial layer, which is composed of the oblique fibres, which arise from the base of the right arytenoid, and crossing the fibres of the deep-seated layer, are inserted into the summit of the left arytenoid cartilage: this is the arytenoideus obliquus of Albinus. The deep-seated layer is thicker and stronger than the superficial; its fibres, which are directed transversely from one arytenoid to the other, constitute the arytenoideus transversus of Albi- nus. The arytenoid muscle is covered pos- teriorly with mucous membrane, which is con- nected to it by loose cellular substance, in which some mucous follicles are found; anteriorly it