NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Meninges.) 633 cavernous sinuses of opposite sides across the basilar process of the occipital bone. Some- times there are two running parallel to each other. Cruveilhier states that the capacity of this sinus is much greater in old than in young subjects. Cavernous sinuses.—In point of shape these sinuses differ considerably from all the other sinuses of the dura mater. They are venous reservoirs, situated on each side of the sella Turcica, from which they are separated by the internal carotid arteries. Their name is derived from the spongy appearance which they present in their interior, owing to the existence of some filaments within them, which, by their inter- lacement with each other, form a reticular texture there. It was formerly supposed that the carotid arteries lay in the cavity of these sinuses and were bathed by their blood ; but it is easy to demonstrate by a little careful dis- section that the inner membrane of the sinus adheres loosely to the outer wall of the artery, and that the sixth nerve passes between them. In the outer wall of each cavernous sinus there are channels for the reception of those nerves, which pass from the cranium into the orbit. These are the third nerve which is placed highest up, the fourth nerve which holds the next place, and the ophthalmic portion of the fifth. The cavernous sinus receives at its ante- rior extremity the ophthalmic vein, which col- lects the blood from the eye-ball and other structures within the orbit, and which commu- nicates also with the angular vein and with the frontal vein. (Hence the injected state of the vessels of the eye-ball when the brain is con- gested, as in fever ) Veins from the inferior surface of the anterior lobes of the brain also open into it, also some from the middle lobe and from the dura mater. Posteriorly it com- municates with both the petrosal sinuses, and veins from the cranial bones open into its superior wall. Circular sinus.—A communication is esta- blished between the cavernous sinuses by means of the circular or coronary sinus which em- braces the pituitary body, one portion lying in front of it and the other behind it, both open- ing by a common free orifice into the right and left cavernous sinuses. The posterior portion of the circular sinus is much larger than its anterior portion. Its size is much greater, according to Cruveilhier, in old subjects than in young ones. It receives small veins from the pituitary body, and also from the sphenoid bone and from the dura mater. It is impossible to examine this complicated arrangement of venous channels in connexion with the dura mater of the brain without ad- miring the beautiful provision which it affords against the undue accumulation of blood in the venous system within the cranium. In the first place, we observe that these veins do not admit of dilatation beyond a prescribed extent, by reason of their being enclosed be- tween layers of an inelastic and inextensible membrane. Next, we remark the safety pro- vision which is afforded by the frequent com- munication between them, so that if one chan- nel were altogether closed or materially con- tracted, there are many others by which the blood could return. Nor is a local congestion likely to take place to any extent, for such is the freedom of communication between the sinuses and the veins of the exterior of the cranium, that (all being devoid of valves) an overflow would readily be received by the latter without the least impediment. Lastly, we learn the great importance and value of local depletion as an agent for relieving vascu- lar fullness within the head, owing to the free communication between the extra- and the intra-cranial circulation, and especially of the veins; and we may infer from anatomy that local depletion would most probably be more serviceable than general, for although the latter would diminish the amount of the mass of circulating fluid, it would not affect the relation between the venous and arterial systems, whilst it is evident that the former must affect the venous system more directly than the arterial. Moreover, the free communication between the circulation within and that without the cranium may explain somewhat the advantage that is often derived from the application of an intense cold to the external surface of the head. Of the pia mater. ( Tunica intima vel vascu- losa.)—The pia mater is the most internal mem- brane of those which have been enumerated as belonging to the spinal cord and brain. Pia mater of the spinal cord.—This mem- brane stands in precisely the same relation to the spinal cord as the neurilemma does to the nerves; and as long as the spinal cord could be, as it formerly was, regarded merely as a bundle of nervous fibres, the analogy of this membrane to the nervous sheath would be perfect. It is composed almost entirely of white fibrous tissue; it closely invests the cord and supports the minute bloodvessels which carry the nutrient fluid to it. Not only does it thus form a complete sheath to the cord, but it likewise sends in processes which dip into the anterior and posterior median fissures of that organ. That which passes into the anterior median fissure is a true fold or duplicative of the pia mater; but the posterior fissure, which is much narrower than the ante- rior, is occupied only by a single and extremely delicate layer, which at some parts almost entirely disappears, and seems to consist merely of a few minute capillary vessels. The pia mater becomes continuous with the neurilemma of the roots of the nerves on each side of the cord, and at its inferior extremity it tapers in accor- dance with the shape of the spinal cord, and is prolonged as a delicate thread which is inserted into the extremity of the dura mater. This prolongation is quite gradual, so that at the upper part it encloses a portion of the medullary substance of the cord ; in the greater part of its extent, however, it is merely a membranous thread, and, therefore, goes by the name fili- form prolongation of the pia mater (Jilurn terminate). The late Dr. Macartney used to regard it as highly elastic, but my friend Mr. Bowman has called my attention to the fact that it consists almost entirely of white