NERVOUS SYSTEM. 642 (Nervous Centres. The Meninges.) the time which has elapsed since death must be taken into account. As advancing decom- position favours the transudation of fluids through the tissues, it is plain that the longer this period is, the less liquid will be found ; and the earlier after death the investigation takes place, the nearer will be the resemblance of the parts to their condition during life. On the other hand, a very advanced stage of decomposition will favour the developement of liquid, wher- ever space may be found for its accumulation. It is, therefore, in vain for the pathologist to attempt to form an opinion respecting the quan- tity of the fluid found in the cranio-spinal cavity, unless the inspection have been made at an early period after death. Practical men are too much in the habit of attributing morbid phenomena of the nervous system to the influence of the pressure of a liquid effusion upon the brain or spinal cord. Many facts tend to shew that in a large pro- portion of cases, especially in the adult, the occurrence of an increased quantity of fluid, either around those centres or within the ven- tricles, is a result, and that it is probably a result of a conservative kind, consequent upon a morbid change which depresses the general nutrition of those organs themselves. We have seen how the universal decay of the tissues, which characterizes old age, favours the increase of the cranio-spinal liquid, when it affects the brain and spinal cord. In examining the bodies of habitual drunkards, patients who die of delirium tremens, or of cirrhose of the liver, the quantity of fluid is always found to be considerable and the brain shrunk. In bed-ridden persons who have ceased to exer- cise their faculties for some time, whether for mental or bodily exertion, the same pheno- mena are witnessed. When there has been much anaemia, as in cases where death has terminated a protracted illness, in phthisis for example, or in persons who have died of haemorrhage, or after excessive venesection, the nervous centres will be found to be small and the liquid in large quantity. In extreme cases of lead cachexy, in which the nutri- tion of the nervous and muscular tissues is materially diminished, I have observed similar appearances. And, when any partial atrophy of either brain or spinal cord has occurred, there will invariably be found, at a point cor- responding to it on the exterior of the organ, a local accumulation of fluid occupying a depression on its surface which has been caused by the giving way of the nervous sub- stance within. On the other hand an increase in the quan- tity of the nervous substance, or an enlarge- ment of the brain or spinal cord, consequent on an undue injection of their bloodvessels, is invariably accompanied with a diminution in the quantity of this fluid or with the total ab- sence of it. In hypertrophy of the brain no fluid is found in the subarachnoid space, and very little or none in the ventricles. In cases of tumour of the brain encroaching upon the cra- nial cavity, we find no fluid; and the same is observed where chronic inflammation of the brain has given rise to a new deposit which increases the bulk and the density of the cra- nial contents. In all cases where a considera- ble quantity of fluid has accumulated ivillun the ventricles, that upon the surface is either greatly diminished or entirely disappears. In the ordinary hydrocephalus interims of chil- dren fluid is never found on the exterior of the brain. When an arrest in the developement of any portion of the cerebro-spinal axis has taken place, the space which ought to be occupied by the organ of imperfect growth is filled by liquid. In examining the heads of idiots we always find a considerable quantity of sub- arachnoid fluid, either general, or partial if a portion only of the brain be deficient. Or if any portion of the wall of the cranio-spinal cavity be defective, the contained viscus is protected by the accumulation of an increased quantity of liquid in the situation of the de- ficiency. Hence the explanation of those watery tumours which occur over various re- gions of the spine, in cases of spina bifida, in which the accumulation of water is favoured by the absence of the resisting osseous wall of the spine for a greater or less extent. And similar tumours are found projecting from the cranium, being occasioned by a protrusion of the cranial meninges through a congenital aper- ture, containing fluid and sometimes a portion of the encephalon itself. Enough has been said to show, that the pre- ternatural increase of this fluid should in general be regarded as secondary to and con- sequent upon the diminished size of the cerebro- spinal centre itself, and that it has most pro- bably little or nothing to do with the manifes- tation of peculiar symptoms during life in the great majority of instances. Whatever be the immediate cause of the shrinking of the cerebro- spinal centre or of any portion of it, the increase of the fluid goes on pari pussu, and in a quantity duly proportionate to the decrease of its bulk, so that it is in the highest degree impro- bable that, in such cases as I have enumerated, the nervous centre experiences any increased degree of pressure beyond that which it bears in the normal state. If, however, the fluid, either within or without the brain, were to increase, while that organ itself either preserved the same bulk or became enlarged, it is plain that it must experience an increased degree of com- pression, which doubtless would produce se- rious symptoms. This very rarely happens, according to my experience, as regards the subarachnoid fluid on the exterior of the brain : we more frequently meet with an increase of the fluid within the ventricles, and, in such cases, we shall find evidence of the compres- sion in a manifestly greater firmness and density of its structure, and in this fact, that the lateral ventricles, when laid open by a ho- rizontal section, do not collapse, as in the ordinary state of the brain, but remain quite patulous, owing to the firmness and density of their walls. And this patulous state of the ventricles may be regarded as a good indication that the fluid, collected in them, had for