NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Encepiialon.) 695 Fig. 394. Superior surface of the right hemispliere of the adult human brain. The undulating form of many of the convolutions is very well seen, and the general characters of the convoluted surface are displayed. of the rabbit, the beaver, the guinea-pig, the agouti shew these fissures. They are generally regular in different individuals of the same genus, and they are symmetrical, i. e., of the same length and direction, and occupy the same place on each hemisphere. Leuret remarks, in reference to the dogma of Gall and Spurzheim, that the presence and number of the convolutions are in direct rela- tion to the volume of the brain, that such is far from being universally the case; and I am glad to refer to so excellent an authority in confirmation of the view which I have advo- cated respecting the true signification of the cerebral convolutions. According to this ana- tomist, the ferret, which has several well-marked convolutions on each hemisphere, has a brain no larger than that of the squirrel, which is entirely devoid of them, and which has not even the few fissures which faintly indicate their first developement in the brains of the rabbit, the beaver, the agouti, &c. And these animals last named have the brain actually larger than that of the cat, the pole-cat, the roussette, (Pteropus vulgaris,) the unau, (Bra- dt/pus didactylus,) the sloth, (Bradypus tridac- tj/lus,) and the pangolin, all of which possess convolutions. All mammiferous animals, excepting those mentioned in the preceding paragraphs, have convolutions which exhibit more or less of complication. This complication has evidently no connection with the general organization of the animal, inasmuch as we find animals, in the same family with those which possess numerous convolutions, exhibiting a very slight developement of them. The monkeys, the dolphin, the elephant, exhibit the most nume- rous convolutions of any of the Mammalia inferior to man, in whose brain the convoluted surface reaches its highest point. Each fold on the surface of the brain is ordinarily called a convolution, whatever be its position, size, or direction. It consists of a fold of gre>' matter, enclosing a process of white or fibrous matter. On each side of it is a sulcus or groove, in which we find the same elements, a fold of grey or vesicular matter— concave externally, convex internally — the fibrous matter adhering to its convex surface. As the convolution exhibits no essential diffe- rence of structure from the sulcus, it is plain that the former portion of the brain's surface cannot differ in physiological office from the latter. We describe particular convolutions, not because they are to be regarded as endowed with special functions distinct from the less prominent portions of the cerebral surface, the sulci, which are continuous and identical in structure with them, but because they afford good indications of a particular arrangement of the surface of the hemispheres by which one brain may be coveniently com- pared with another, whether they belong to the same or to different groups of animals. The folded arrangement of the surface of the hemispheres, dependent as it is upon the grey matter, is evidently destined to bring the central and deep-seated parts of the hemispheres into union with a large extent of vesicular surface. That the disposition of the convolutions, like that of all other parts of animal bodies, follows a particular law, is well illustrated by comparing the brains of different groups of animals, in their gradation from the more simple to the more complex. M. Leuret very justly makes a distinction between those convolutions which are constant, and to be found throughout the whole series of convoluted brains, occupying the same position, and differing only in size and extent of connec- tions, and those which are not constant, even in the brains of the same group of animals, but are dependent on the extent of the primary ones, and the connections which they form with others near them. According to this idea we may classify the convolutions as primary and secondary. The primary convolutions are all formed after