PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 722N traction of the pupils. Longet found that re- moval of one optic thalamus in the rabbtt was followed by paralysis on the opposite side of the body. It appears, however, that this was done after the removal of the hemisphere and corpus striatum, whereby the experiment was so complicated as to invalidate any conclusion that might be drawn from it respecting the function of the thalamus. Indeed, vivisections upon so complex an organ as the brain are ill- calculated to lead to useful or satisfactory results; but one does not hesitate to refer to such as have been made, because they afford a certain amount of negative information, imper- fect though it be. Nothing definitive respecting the proper office of the thalami can be obtained from pa- thological anatomy. Extensive disease of these bodies is attended with the same phe- nomena during life, as lesion of similar kind in the corpora striata. Ilemiplegic paralysis accompanies both : nor does it appear that sen- sation is more impaired when the thalamus is diseased, than when the corpus striatum is affected. There is nothing in the phenomena attendant on morbid states of the thalami which can be fairly regarded as opposed to the conclusion which their anatomical relations indicate, name- ly, that they form a principal part of the centre of sensation. The intimate connection between the striated bodies and the thalami sufficiently explains the paralysis of motion which follows disease of the latter; whilst, as the thalami do not constitute the whole centre of sensation, but only a part thereof, it cannot be expected that lesion of this part would destroy sensation, so long as the remainder of the centre on the same side, as well as that of the opposite side, retain their integrity. Complete paralysis of sensation on one side is very rare in diseased brain: a slight impairment of it frequently exists in the early periods of cerebral lesion, apparently as an effect of shock ; for it quickly subsides, although the motor power may never return. According to the views above expressed, the corpora striata and optic thalami bear to each other a relation analogous to that of the ante- rior to the posterior horn of the spinal grey matter. The corpora striata and anterior horns are centres of motion; the optic thalami and posterior horns, centres of sensation. The anterior pyramids connect the former; the olivary columns, and perhaps some fibres of the anterior pyramids, the latter. The olivary columns, however, are in great part continu- ations of the thalami on the one hand, and of the grey matter of the cord on the other; and contain abundance of vesicular matter, in which nerves are implanted. And it must be admitted that the intimate connection of sensation and motion, whereby sensation becomes a frequent excitor of mo- tion,—and voluntary motion is always, in a state of health, attended with sensation,— would a priori lead us to look for the respec- tive centres of these two great faculties, not only in juxta-position, but in union at least as intimate as that which exists between the corpus striatum and optic thalamus, or between the anterior and the posterior horns of the spinal grey matter. Saucerotte, Foville, Pinel Grandchamps, and others, advanced the opinion that the corpora striata and the fibrous substance of the anterior lobes of the brain had a special influence upon the motions of the lower extremities, and that the optic thalami and the fibrous substance of the middle and posterior part of the brain pre- sided over the movements of the upper ex- tremities. We find, however, but little to favour this theory either in the results of ex- periments, in pathological observation, or the anatomy of the parts. Longet states, that, in his experiments upon the optic thalami, the paralysis affected equally the anterior and the posterior extremities. Andral analysed se venty-five cases of cerebral lesion limited to the corpus striatum or optic thalamus. In twenty-three of these cases, the paralysis was confined to the upper extremity: of these, eleven were affected with lesion of the corpus striatum or of the anterior lobe; ten with lesion of the posterior lobe, or of the optic thalamus; and two with lesion of the middle lobe.* Hence it is plain that a diseased state of the corpus striatum is as apt to induce paralysis of the upper extremity as lesion of the tha- lamus ; and we are forced to conclude, that pathological anatomy is not competent to de- cide the question. Lastly, the anatomy of these two bodies renders it highly improbable thai they perform a function so similar, as that of directing the movements of particular limbs. The great size of the optic thalamus, its mul- titude of fibrous radiations, its extensive con- nections both in the medulla oblongata and in the hemispheres by means of commissural fibres, the marked difference of its structure from that of the corpus striatum, its con- nection more with the posterior horns of the spinal grey matter than with the anterior ones, and its intimate relation to nerves of sensation, are sufficient anatomical facts to warrant the opinion that the thalami must perform a func- tion which, although it may be subservient to, or associated with, that of the striated bodies, is yet entirely dissimilar in kind. It has been supposed that the corpora striata are special centres or ganglia to the olfactory nerves, and to the sense of smell. But such a supposition is altogether superfluous, inas- much as a very distinct and obvious centre to these nerves exists in the olfactory process or lobe, miscalled nerve by descriptive anatomists. The small olfactory nerves are implanted in the anterior extremity or bulb of this process, which is provided with all the structural cha- racters of a nervous centre, and contains a ventricle. This lobe, moreover, is always de- veloped in the diiect ratio of the size and number of the olfactory nerves, and of the developement of the sense of smell; and in the Cetacea, a class in which the olfactory nerves and process either do not exist at all, or are so imperfectly developed as to have * Clin. Med. t. v. 2 / J ; -' ' '■