is nearly fiat, the posterior very convex. The choroid is black, without a tapetum lucidum : the pupil is circular. The nerves of the third pair (jig. 183, 3) have the usual origin and destination, and are like- wise very small: the fourth nerve is still more minute. The fifth pair in the Ornithorhynchus ex- ceeds, in relative magnitude, that of any other animal; though large, also, in the Echidna, its size is much less remarkable in this Mono- treme. The trigeminal nerve in the Ornithorhynchus, (Jig. 181, 5,) emerging from the ganglion an- terior to the pons, soon divides into three branches ; the first and second appearing as one. The first and smallest division divides into two equal branches: the superior or ethmoidal branch enters the nose, emerges from a canal in the upper part of that cavity, and supplies the skin at the upper part of the face; and, by a branch continued from between the nasal and intermaxillary bones, is distributed to the nostrils and contiguous integument. The second division of the fifth is two lines broad and one line and a half thick ; it passes through the foramen rotundum, and the chief part of it passes into the ant-orbital canal. On its emergence it divides into two branches, distributed, the one to the nasal or upper pa- rietes of the face, the other to the lateral or labial integuments. The palatine branch di- vides into a posterior smaller nerve, which passes through the posterior palatine foramina : the anterior and larger branch emerges from the anterior palatine canal and supplies Jacob- son's organ and the surrounding palatine mem- brane. The third division of the fifth (5') is broader but thinner than the second ; it leaves the cranium by the foramen ovale, and is distributed as usual, in part to the manducatory muscles, but mainly to the sensitive labial integument of the lower jaw (Jig. 180, a a). The sixth nerve (Jig. 183, 6) is as small as the third. The seventh and the acoustic pre- sent half a line in diameter. The acoustic nerve is expended upon a labyrinth remarkable for the small relative size of the semicircular canals, and their free pro- jection into the cavity of the cranium. The cochlea is wide, but not high; it is bent around a modiolus, and divided as usual into a superior and inferior scala. The foramen ovale is nearly circular, and opens into the wide but shallow tympanic cavity. It is naturally closed by the base of a small columelliform and imperforate stapes (Jig. 173, d, cT): the stem of this ossicle is articulated with a triangular plate of bone (c), representing, according to Meckel, the incus. This bone is connected with a small bent os- seous style (6), which serves to complete, with the similarly-shaped tympanic ossicle (a), the frame supporting the membrana tympani. This membrane is concave externally, and forms the inner extremity of a long and narrow meatus auditorius externus, which is strength- ened by a cartilaginous incomplete cylinder, protected by a valve, but not provided with an external auricle. The auricle is equally wanting in the Echidna, in which the external aperture of the auditory canal presents the form of a vertical slit, shaped like the italic S, one inch and a half in length: the margins of the slit are tumid, and support a row of bristles which protect and cover the orifice when recumbent. The meatus is remarkably long ; the tube is strengthened in this Monotreme by a series of incomplete cartilaginous hoops, connected to- gether by a narrow longitudinal cartilaginous band, so that its structure closely resembles that of a trachea (Jig. 188, a, a). The tym- panic fossa is almost entirely encircled with a slender hoop of bone (fig. 169, c) consisting of the anchylosed tympanic bone and malleus. The portion which represents the tympanic bone (a), and which can be separated from the malleus in theyoungsubject, is a slender osseous filament bent into three-fourths of a circle, and placed upon the inner margin of the tym- panic fossa, its concavity looking outwards: this concavity is impressed with a fine groove for the insertion of the membrana tympani : the posterior part of the hoop passes across the commencement of the Eustachian canal, and terminates in a free point upon the pos- terior wall of the tympanic fossa : the anterior end of the hoop is applied to and usually anchylosed with the longitudinal bar of the malleus (ft). Only a small portion of this ossicle is con- tained within the cavity of the tympanum ; the principal portion forms the external and part of the posterior boundary of the bony meatus auditorius, and is then continued forwards in the form of a slender pointed process; the bone slightly expands as it extends backwards, and its broadest part is abruptly bent inwards until it nearly meets the posterior end of the tympanic hoop. From the extremity of this in- flected portion a slender compressed process (c) extends to the centre of the space encircled by the bony hoop; it is attached by its whole length to the membrana tympani, and repre- sents the handle of the malleus. At the pos- terior margin of the broad incurved part of the malleus there are two minute tubercles nearly a line apart: the short and simple columelliform stapes (d) ascends vertically from the inner- most of these tubercles, with the upper surface of which it is articulated; its opposite ex- tremity closes the foramen ovale in the form of an expanded plate. The membrana tym- pani is concave outwardly at its middle part. The eighth and ninth pairs of nerves have the usual origins and proportions. The pneumogastric nerve (Jig. 180, d) is closely attached, at its origin, to the hypoglossal (fg.180,b), but is quite distinct from the sympathetic (fig. 180, f) : it gives off the superior laryngeal, and then proceeds along the neck to the chest: the right nerve here sends its recurrent branch, in the usual manner, round the arteria innominata; the left branch (Jig. 187, k) winds round the aorta : the trunk of the pneumogastric is then expended in the