356 MICROSCOPE. upon the object; and, with a little practice, a very close estimate may be formed of the proportional size of the object, when it only extends over a part of a single division. This, for ordinary purposes, is by far the most con- venient mode of measurement. The camera lucida, however, which has been adapted to the microscope for the purpose of delineating representations of microscopic ob- jects, may be most advantageously applied also to micrometry. By this instrument (of the construction of which we shall presently speak) a highly magnified picture is projected upon a surface on which its outlines may be easily marked, and on which their size may, therefore, be determined with the greatest nicety. Here, as in former cases, the micro- meter object-glass must first be employed, in order to fix the standard. If one of these be placed in the focus of the microscope, and the camera lucida be so adjusted, that an image of its lines be thrown upon a piece of paper at a fixed distance from it, the distance of these may be marked with precision ; and subdivi- sion on the paper may be carried to any re- quired extent, so as to afford the means of at once ascertaining the size of an object placed in the field. Thus, if the magnifying power and the distance of the paper be so adjusted, that the lines which are really TjLth of an inch apart are projected upon it at five inches distance from each other, every inch on the paper will of course be equivalent to ^th of an inch on the object. Lines of ^>th of an inch apart may easily be drawn on the paper; and the distance between each of these will represent Toikj'h °f an 'ncn on l'le ou" ject. In this manner the size of an object may be known with great nicety, and with less lia- bility to error than in the use of the screw mi- crometer. It is easy to increase the apparent size of the image thrown by the camera lucida to almost any required extent; so that even greater minuteness may be attained. The dis- tance between the eye-piece and the paper may be increased,—either vertically by placing the latter upon a chair or even on the floor,—-or horizontally, by turning the prism or mirror a quarter round, and projecting the image in the direction of the side of the room, so that the range of distance is much increased. Such a plan is, of course, of no use in delineation ; but in micrometry it may be had recourse to with advantage, especially when comparing the relative sizes of similar objects, such as the blood-discs. For every magnifying power, whether gained by changing the objective or by increasing the distance of the screen, a determi- nate value must of course be ascertained for the divisions of the latter. The camera lucida of Dr. Wollaston is some- times applied to the eye-piece of the micro- scope for the purpose of delineation and micro- metry ; but it is much inferior for these pur- poses to other plans which have been devised. Probably the best of these consists of a mirror composed of a thin piece of rather dark-coloured glass cemented on a piece of plate-glass, in- clined at an angle of 45° in front of the eye- glass. Of the light which passes out from the latter, a sufficient quantity is reflected by the mirror to give a distinct image; and yet the paper and pencil can be distinctly seen through the glass, though rather darkened by the co- loured glass, which thus serves to render the image more brilliant. A lens is placed below the reflector, which causes the rays from the paper and pencil to diverge at the same angle with those received from the eye-glass; so that both the object and the pencil are seen with equal distinctness. The use of a small highly- polished steel mirror, fixed in the focus of the eye-piece, and inclined upwards towards the eye at an angle of 45°, is by some preferred to this. The mirror being smaller than the pupil allows the rays from the paper to pass up into the eye around it; and thus the image is seen as upon the screw. In the use of either of these instruments, the chief difficulty (as in the use of the common camera lucida) is for the delineator to see both the image and pencil with sufficient distinctness to enable him to make an accurate tracing of the former. Much will depend upon the advantageous adjustment of the amount of light upon the object and the paper respectively. In drawing or measuring by lamp-light, we have found it useful to place a small taper near the screen, so that its direct rays may fall upon it, whilst the lamp is used for illuminating the object; and when the screen is illuminated by daylight it is prefer- able still to use the lamp for the other purpose. The point of the pencil should be blackened. The micrometer eye-piece also may be em- ployed for drawing; its squares being repre- sented by squares on the paper; and the por- tion of the object between each beingdelineated, in the manner commonly practised by artists. No assistance of this kind, however, can supply that skill to the microscopic draughtsman which is required for making finished delineations of any object. Accuracy of outline is all that they can ensure. Under this head it seems not inappropriate to introduce a few remarks on the degree of minuteness in the structure of objects, which the magnifying power of the microscope ena- bles us to delect. Much speculation has taken place amongst philosophers at different times, relative to the possibility of detecting the ultimate atoms of material, especially organic, substances; and microscopists have occasionally hazarded state- ments in regard to their size, which an in- creased knowledge has shown to be invalid. It was a favourite theory about fifteen years since, that all organized bodies are made up of globules, which cannot be resolved into any other kind of structure, the diameter of which was stated at about j^th of an inch. The great improvements which have been recently made, however, in the microscope, and the general advance of knowledge on the subject of the ultimate constitution of organized struc- tures, have shown the erroneous nature of this view, by proving that there is no body, however