PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 720g experiments show that the brain readily imbibes fluid, and that parts in the vicinity of and bathed in fluid may present a pseudo-morbid softening from such imbibition. The fact, thus ascertained, serves to account for the more frequent occurrence of softening in the fornix and septum lucidum than in other parts of the brain. It is obvious that pseudo- morbid softening of this kind would occur only in parts within the ventricle or in the cerebral substance forming their walls, or on the surface of the brain itself, and that it is less likely to be limited to one side than the morbid softening. Now and then, however, in cases of general anasarca, where the blood is in a very watery condition and much fluid is effused, the brain exhibits a softened state from the imbibition of this fluid. Abnormal anatomy of nerves.—Certain nerves are sometimes absent, from a defect in the developement of the organ to which they are devoted ; as the optic nerve, or the olfac- tory, when their respective organs are wanting. The non-developement of the eye will also cause a non-developement of the fourth pair and the other orbital nerves which influence the movements of the eyeball. The morbid states of nerves are few and rare. Inflammation of a nerve rarely occuis idiopa- thically or primarily. Occurring from what- ever cause, it would be distinguished by hyper- emia, enlargement, and by deposit of more or less of lymph or pus. In the acute inflam- mation the nerve would be softened; but in the chronic it would become indurated. Abscess of a nerve is of very rare occurrence. Inflammatory affections of nerves occur chiefly in connexion with rheumatic or gouty states of the system. Sciatica is, no doubt, an in- flammatory affection of the sciatic nerve of the gouty kind. In lumbago probably the mus- cular nerves of the lumbar muscles are similarly affected. Atrophy is a condition into which nerves may fall from disuse or from pressure. In it the nerve-fibres shrink, their central axis wastes, and in extreme cases disappears entirely, the tubular membrane becoming plicated and as- suming the characters of fibrous tissue. The nerve experiences a great diminution in size, and the wasting is obvious to the naked eye. Hypertrophy. — Whether a nerve becomes enlarged when more work is thrown upon it, as a muscle does, is as yet quite uncertain. I am disposed to think that the nerve-fibres may acquire some increase of size; but it seems to me impossible that they should become more numerous. The number of nerve-fibres in in- dividual nerves, as that of muscular fibres in muscles, is probably determined at their pri- mary developement,* and they undergo no change but that of length and thickness subse- quently. It would not be difficult, by destroy- ing the office of the vagus nerve on one side, to ascertain whether, after the lapse of some * A similar law probably prevails with other tis- sues, namely, that the number of their proximate elements is determined at primary developement, and that in subsequent growth these elements may increase in bulk but not in number. time, the other, upon which its function would devolve, acquired any increase in the size of its nerve-fibres. Certain gangliform tumours are formed upon nerves, to which the term neuroma has been applied. They consist of areolar tissue and of nerve-fibres, and seem to be formed by an increased developement of the areolar tissue between the nerve-fibres. These tumours vary considerably in size and number; sometimes they are not larger than a filbert or a gooseberry, sometimes as large as a walnut. In general they are few and limited to one nerve, and their size is proportionate to that of the nerve with which they are connected. In a few rare cases tumours of this kind have been found in im- mense numbers scattered over the whole cere- bro-spinal system. (R. B. Todd.) NERVOUS SYSTEM, Physiology of the.—In inquiring into the physiology of the nervous system, the first step is to determine the vital endowments of nerves and of nervous centres. When a nerve is laid bare in a living animal, and a mechanical or electrical stimulus is ap- plied to it, we do not find as in muscle that a visible change in the nerve takes place ; on the contrary, the nerve seems to be uninfluenced by the applied stimulus, and the evidence we have to the contrary is derived from the con- traction of certain muscles, if the nerve be muscular, or from indications of pain, if it be a nerve of common sensation. We infer, then, from the contraction of the muscle in the one case, or from the affection of the mind in the other, that the application of the stimulus has wrought a change in the nerve, which, however, is of such a nature as not to be discerned by any means of observation within our reach. We get, however, excellent proof of the excitation of the change in the nerve, from the fact that when a ligature is ap- plied to a nerve sufficiently tight to produce a solution of continuity in the nerve fibres, the propagation of the influence of the stimulus beyond the ligature is checked. No kind nor degree of stimulation of a muscular nerve above a ligature so applied is capable of exciting muscular contraction. The most remarkable feature which we notice in the experiment of stimulating a muscular nerve, is the instantaneousness with which the muscular contraction takes place. Although the muscles may be at a considerable distance from the point of the nerve to which the stimu- lus is applied, there seems no appreciable interval of time between the application of the stimulus and the contraction of the muscle. And the cessation of the muscular contraction, instantly upon the removal of the stimulus, is equally conspicuous. It would appear, then, that the change in the nerve is produced and is propagated along the nerve to distant parts, as it were at one and the same moment. This rapidity of the pro- duction, and the instantaneousness of propaga- tion of the change in the nerve, denote that the nerve fibres must be the seat of a molecular