NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centp.es. Abnormal Anatomy.) 715 the spinal canal. The softening which results from decomposition, in general, occupies the greatest part of the cord or the whole of it, and does not exhibit so pure a white colour as the morbid softening. It sometimes has a greenish or a dusky hue, and is more or less foetid. The softening from injury is very circumscribed, and is surrounded by nervous matter perfectly healthy in colour and consistence. There is, moreover, generally evidence of injury to and rupture of the pia mater, the softened matter of the cord protruding through the rent in this membrane. Where the softening is morbid, it wants the abruptness which occurs in the latter case, and the diseased part gradually passes into healthy structure. The inflammatory softening is sometimes infiltrated with purulent matter, which, if not recognizable by the naked eye, may be easily detected by the microscope and by reagents. In rare cases the pus is collected into a circum- scribed abscess, occupying more or less of the thickness of the cord. The cord may be the seat of an effusion of blood, and may thus present the condition of apoplexy, like that which is of so frequent occurrence in the brain. In such cases there may be more than one small clot occupying the central part of the cord. They are of rare occurrence, and are generally found in the upper part of the cord. Tubercle may occur in the cord, and, as in the brain, connected with the pia mater, either deposited in a group or forming a mass which gradually encroaches upon the substance. The cervical region is that in which it most fre- quently is found, and it forms tumours of va- rious sizes, each of which is generally enclosed in membranous cyst. Cancer of the cord is a lesion of extremely rare occurrence. Ollivier relates several cases of it, but Rokitansky remarks that he has seen but. one example of a cancerous tumour in the spinal cord. It is in cases where the cancerous diathesis prevails, and where cancerous matter is deposited throughout various parts of the body, that we may look for it in the cord. Abnormal anatomy of the brain and its mem- branes.—The remarks already made with re- ference to the membranes of the cord apply equally to those of the brain. The latter mem- branes, however, are more frequently found in an abnormal state than the former. The dura mater.—There may be a general or partial deficiency of the dura mater and of the other membranes according as there is a general or partial defect in the brain itself. The partial defect is mostly observed in the falx cerebri or in the tentorium cerebelli. The cribriform appearance of the former process is of frequent occurrence and is unaccompanied by any obvious defect in the brain, and some- times even a considerable portion of it is want- ing, while the brain is quite normal. Acute disease of the dura mater is rare, and only occurs as an effect of wounds or injuries of the cranium, or in connection with syphilitic or strumous disease of the bones ; or, inde- pendently of diseased bone, as an effect of the syphilitic poison, like that which occurs on ex- ternal fibrous membranes. A syphilitic in- flammatory state of the dura mater is frequently the cause of serious affection of the brain. A condition analogous to that of node will cause pressure on the brain and paralysis ; and, whilst it resists the ordinary antiphlogistic treatment,will speedily yieldto antisyphilitic re- medies, such as mercury and iodide of potassium. We meet with great variety as regards the firmness of adhesion of the dura mater with the cranium. There is a tendency in some perverted states of nutrition for this membrane to become incorporated with the inner table of the skull. This seldom takes place conti- nuously, but in patches, so that in removing the calvaria a portion of the inner table of the skull remains in connection with the fibrous mem- brane, or a hole is left in the latter when the conversion of the fibrous membrane into bone' may be complete. It is in the more advanced periods of life that this mor- bid condition is chiefly found; indeed we seldom open the skull of a person who has passed the age of threescore without finding more or less of it. At that period of life it may be regarded rather as one of the series of changes which accompany advancing years than as a diseased state. When, however, it occurs at the earlier ages, it must be viewed as resulting from a morbid process. Patches of bone are frequently found in the processes of the cranial dura mater, as in the falx, tentorium. They occur more frequently in the former than in the latter. In size they vary much : they are placed between the layers of the dura mater, and are completely enclosed by them ; sometimes, however, they encroach upon these layers, which then seem as if they had been completely converted into bone. Fibrous tumours are sometimes formed at various parts of the dura mater. These vary considerably in size and number. They pro- ject inwards upon the brain, and indent that organ more or less according to their size, and sometimes they project outwards, and by causing absorption of the bone by pressure form depressions for themselves, and even wear holes in the bone by their outward growth. Tubercles of a strumous character are some- times deposited in connection with the dura mater. The most remarkable example I have seen of these morbid tumours is a preparation in the museum of King's College, London, taken from a patient who suffered severely from epilepsy. The internal surface of the dura mater and of the falx is covered with numerous tumours of this kind, some of which are nearly as large as a walnut, others not larger than a small filbert. This specimen belonged to the collection of the late Dr. Hooper, who has given an excellent delineation of it in his plates of the morbid anatomy of the brain. The dura mater participates in the diseased states of the cranial bones. Cancer or fungoid disease affecting the calvaria or any part of the cranial wall which is covered by dura mater, will extend to the dura mater and subjacent parts.