ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 232 follow the course of the vein over the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, where it meets with lymphatic glands which it enters; the posterior group accompanies the occipital and posterior auricular veins, traverses the glands behind the mastoid process, and afterwards those situated at the back and upper part of the neck. The facial lymphatics, like the facial veins, receive branches from the forehead and eyelids, pass from the inner can thus of the eye along the side of the nose and over the bucci- nator muscle, where they meet with one or two small glands ; they then gain the anterior edge of the masseter, from whence they pass be- low the margin of the jaw, to traverse the glands there situated. These three groups of vessels communicate freely with each other in the cervical glands, and are joined by some of the deep-seated lymphatics. These latter may be divided into those of the cranium and those of the face; the former as well as the lymphatics of the interior of the orbit are riot sufficiently known to admit of our stating the exact course which they take. Fohmann and Mascagni both conceive that they have discovered the lymphatics of the brain and its membranes and have had them delineated in their published plates ; but they differ so ma- terially from each other, and their descriptions are so far from satisfactory that we must be content to say that we are ignorant not only of the course they take but even of their existence. Fohmann represents them to be very large and numerous, situated principally between the arachnoid membrane and pia mater, while Mascagni figures them on the pia mater as exceedingly small and as accompanying some of the veins; others are also depicted as asso- ciated with the meningeal vessels ; the trunks of these vessels are supposed to descend with the carotid, vertebral, and meningeal arteries and with the internal jugular veins; while Fohmann throws out a hint that they may ter- minate in the venous system within the cra- nium. The deep-seated lymphatics of the face are associated with the bloodvessels; those accom- panying the internal maxillary arteries enter the gland or glands in the substance of the pa- rotid, and join the temporal lymphatics. The rest accompanying their bloodvessels reach the upper cervical glands, and communicate freely with the superficial lymphatics already traced to the same glands ; the further progress of the lymphatics in the neck is regulated by the position of the glands, which it will be re- membered form two groups, one situated be- tween the steiv.o-mastoid muscle and the trachea, and associated more with the internal jugular vein, the other located in the cellular interval between the sterno-mastoid and tra- pezius muscles in the neighbourhood of the external jugular. The former receives the lym- phatics from the tongue, pharynx, and larynx, and lower down from the thyroid gland, trachea, and oesophagus; while the latter col- lects them from the muscles of the posterior region of the neck and of the shoulder. The afferent and efferent vessels of these two series of glands have frequent communica- tions with each other. At the root of the neck they unite freely with the lymphatics emerging from the chest and with those of the upper extremities, until ultimately one large vessel is formed on either side, which receives the con- tents of the whole, and which terminates either by opening separately into the internal jugular vein close to the entrance of the lymphatic trunk, or into that trunk itself. (S. Lane.) LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, ABNORMAL ANATOMY.—The congenital variations from the normal distribution of the lymphatic system which have naturally most attracted attention are those of the thoracic duct, or of the right lymphatic trunk; the remainder of the system lying too minute for general investigation, and the mode of its examination being within the scope of only a few. The thoracic duct frequently varies as to the precise point at which it opens into the venous system, sometimes opening into the subclavian vein, at others into the jugular. A very striking departure of it from its usual arrange- ment is when it is found opening into the veins on the right side, just as it ordinarily does on the left. I saw an instance of this during the winter of 1834, in the body of a child dis- sected by Mr. Skey. The duct followed its usual course as high as the fifth dorsal vertebra; it then inclined to the right side, and opened into the angle between the right jugular and subclavian veins. It was remarkable that in this subject the right subclavian artery was abnormal in its mode of origin ; it arose from the extreme left portion of the arch of the aorta, and passed to its destination behind the trachea and oesophagus. A similar transposition of the thoracic duct occurs in cases of general trans- position of the viscera. The thoracic ducts have been found some- times both terminating on the same side, some- times on opposite sides. It has also been found dividing into two large trunks which pass upwards parallel to each other for a consider- able distance, and then unite again. Varieties have been observed as regards its mode of opening into the jugular and subclavian veins. Instead of terminating as a single trunk, it has been found to subdivide into two or three branches, which open separately into the sub- clavian or jugular veins. At its termination the duct experiences generally some degree of dilatation—in some instances I have seen this so considerable as to have the appearance of an aneurismal enlargement. The duct has like- wise been found to empty itself into the vena azygos. In the pig, according to Panizza, a communication between the duct and this vein is constant and normal. The varieties in the course and distribution of the lymphatic vessels and in the number and position of the glands are doubtless as numerous as those of the veins. The diseased states of this system may be examined, first, as regards the lymphatic and lacteal vessels; secondly, with reference to the