MARSUPIALIA. 281 Scapula of Koala. curve, the convex pos- terior, position of which varies as to its degree and extent. The subscapular sur- face is remarkable in the Perameles for its flatness, but presents a shallow groove near the inferior costa. In most other Marsupials it is more or less convex or undulat- ing. In the Great Kangaroo the supra-spinal fossa is of less extent than the space below the spine, and the spine is inclined up- wards. In the Perameles and Dasyures the proportions of the supra and infraspinal sur- faces are reserved, and the whole spine is bent downwards over the infraspinal surface. In the Potoroos and Phalangers the acromion is, as it were, bent downwards so as to present a flattened surface to the observer. In the Potoroos and Opossums this appear- ance is produced by a true expansion of the acromion. In the Perameles the coracoid process is merely represented by a slight pro- duction of the superior part of the glenoid ca- vity. In the Kangaroo and Potoroo it forms a protuberance on the upper part of the head of the scapula. In the other Marsupials it as- sumes the character of a distinct process from the same part, and attains its greatest develop- ment in the Wombat and Koala, in the latter of which it is forcibly curved downwards and inwards. The clavicles are present in all the Marsu- pials, with the exception of the genus Pera- meles, and probably also the Chteropus. In the claviculate Marsupials they are relatively strongest and longest in the burrowing Wom- bat, weakest and shortest in the Great Kanga- roo. In the latter they are simply curved with the convexity forwards, and measure only two inches in length. In the Wombat they are upwards of three inches in length, and have a double curvature; they are expanded and obliquely truncate at the sternal extremity, where the articular surface presents a remark- ably deep notch : they become compressed as they approach the acromion, to which they are attached by an extended narrow articular surface. In the" Koala the clavicles are also very strong, but more compressed than in the Wom- bat, bent outwards in their whole extent, and the convex margin formed, not by a continuous curve, but by three almost straight lines, with intervening angles; progressively diminishing in extent to the outermost line which forms the articular surface with the acromion. In the Myrmecobius the clavicles are subcompressed and more curved at the acromial than at the sternal end. In most of the other Marsupials the clavicle is a simple compressed elongated bone, with one general outward curvature. The humerus in the Dasyures and Thyla- cines resembles that of the Dog-tribe in the imperforate condition of the inner condyle, but differs in the more marked development of the muscular ridges, especially of that which ex- tends upwards from the outer condyle for the origin of the great supinator muscle. This ridge is terminated abruptly by the smooth tract for the passage of the musculo-spiral nerve. In all the other genera of Marsupials that I have examined the internal condyle of the hu- merus is perforated. But in some species of Petaurus, as Petaurus sciureus, the foramen is represented by a deep notch; and in the P/iu- langista Cookii, both foramen and notch are wanting.* The ridge above the external condyle is much developed in the Petaurus macrurus and sciureus, and notched at its upper part, but this notch does not exist vaPet. taguanoides. I find similar differences in the development of the supinator, or outer ridge, in the genus Perameles; in the Per. lagutis it is bounded above by a groove ; in Per. Gunnii it is less developed and less defined. In the Kanga- roos, Potoroos, Wombat, and Koala (Jig.107), the outer condyloid ridge extends in the form of a hooked process above the groove of the radial nerve. In all these, and especially in the Wombat, the deltoid process of the hu- merus is strongly developed; it is continued from the external tuberosity down the upper half of the humerus; except in the Petaurists, where, from the greater relative length of the humerus, it is limited to the upper third. The interspace of the condyles is occasion- ally perforated, as in the Perameles lagotis and Wombat. The articular surfaces at both ex- tremities of the humerus have the usual form; but it may be observed in some Marsupials, as the Koala, that at the distal articulation the external convexity for the radius has a greater relative extent than usual, and the ulnar con- cavity is less deep. The bones of the fore-arm present little to detain our notice. They are always dis- tinct and well developed, and their adaption to pronation and supination is complete. The prehensile faculty and ungui- culate structure of the anterior extremities appear to have been indispensable to animals where various manipulations were required in the economy ofthemarsupialpouch. When, therefore, such an animal is destined like the ruminant to range the wilderness in quest of pasturage, the requisite powers of the anterior members are re- tained and secured to it, as has been already observed, by an enormous developement of the hinder extremities, to which the function of locomotion is restricted. * In the other species of Phalangista, and in the Petaurus taguanoides and macrurus, the internal con- dyle of the humerus is perforated. Fie. 107. Humerus of t}ie Koala.