528 MUSCULAR MOTION. scope."* Previous to him no author appears to have examined them. But Leeuwenhoek,f his friend and correspondent, makes continual mention of his examinations of the muscular fibre of various animals. This acute and en- thusiastic observer clearly recognized the im- portant fact, that each elementary fibre is a perfect and separate organ in itself; he was astonished to find that in all animals, the largest as well as the smallest, these fibres are excessively minute ; he discovered the manner in which they are aggregated, and invested by areolar tissue; and by boiling and drying a muscle and then making tranverse sections of it, he ascertained those of voluntary muscle to be polygonal and solid. He described the cross lines, which he conceived to be on the surface only and to be the coils of a spiral thread. To this structure he attributed the active power of the fibre, comparing it to an elastic coil of wire. He further saw the longitudinal lines visible on the elementary fibre, and considered them to be an evidence of a still minuter com- position by fibrillae. All these points are well illustrated by figures, which leave no doubt of his meaning; but, as his results are scattered through a great number of letters, much of what he accomplished seems to have been over- looked by later writers. Leeuwenhoek con- cluded that in contraction the cross markings approximate, but I cannot discover that he speaks of having seen this. He confounded the cross markings seen on tendon with those of muscle, and fell into the prevalent error of attributing contractility to the tendons. Mal- pighi incidentally mentions the minute structure of muscle in only one passage of his works.J He appears to have seen the transverse stripes of the elementary fibre, and to have alsolikened them to those of tendon. Contemporary with Leeuwen- hoek was de Heide,§ who, in 1698, published some observations on muscular fibre, describ- ing and figuring the transverse markings. In 1741, Muys,|| in a voluminous work, with good plates, gave all that was previously known, and added many observations of his own. His book, however, is learned rather than profound. He separates the elementary fibres into the simple and reticulated, and seems to have con- sidered the stripes to be the effect either of mi- nute zigzags during contraction or of a spiral form of the fibrillae. Prochaskair next produced an excellent trea- tise on muscle, in which he explained, with great clearness, the figure, size, and solidity of the elementary fibre, and the appearances of the fibrillae into which it divides. He fell into the error, however, of confounding the trans- verse markings in the intervals of the discs, with other creasings or flexuosities which never * Posthumous Works by Waller, 1707,—Life, p. xx. f Epist. Physiologies, passim. J De Bombyce, p. 9, 10, written before the year 1687. § Experimenta circa sanguinis missionem, fibras motrices, &c. Amstel. 1698. || Investigatio fabrics, &c. Lugd. Bat. 1741/ «[ De carne musculari. Vienna?, 1778. exist in the living body, but continually pre- sent themselves, in the dead fibre, from me- chanical causes. All these he attributed to lateral pressure made on the fibre and fibrillae by vessels, nerves, and areolar tissue, which he erroneously imagined to penetrate the inte- rior of the fibre. Prochaska injected muscle vvith great success,* and found the vessels so numerous that he was induced to believe con- traction to depend on distension of the vessels, throwing the fibrillae into zigzags. Fontana,f a few years afterwards, gave a much more accurate account of the fibre than had previously appeared, and one remarkable for its simplicity. According to him the ele- mentary fibre consists of fibrillae, marked at equal distances by dark lines, which by their lateral apposition occasion the appearance of cross striae. Hence he styled the fibre a primitive fasciculus. By this term, which has been generally adopted, undue importance is attributed to the longitudinal cleavage, for the elementary fibre may as justly be called a pile as a bundle. It is not, however, in strictness, either one or the other. In the period that has elapsed since Fon- tana's description was published, up to the last few years, no real addition has been made to our knowledge, and so discredited or for- gotten, at least in this country, were the labours of the authors already enumerated, that the anatomy of the muscular fibre was taken up as a new inquiry in 1818 by Sir Everard Home and Mr. Bauer.]. The latter very excellent observer must have been deceived by the im- perfection of his glasses, which do not seem to have been adapted to so minute a structure, for his results, as published by Sir E. Home, have had the effect of retarding rather than of advancing our knowledge, by raising doubts as to the credibility of any conclusions founded on microscopical research. In 1832, Dr. Hodgkin and Mr. Lister§ re-discovered the transverse markings on the elementary fibre of voluntary muscle and of the heart, and pointed out, as Muys and Fontana had done, that their presence was a character by which this could be distinguished from the fibre of the uterus, bladder, &c, which latter they con- sequently denied to be muscular. Since then, many inquirers, both in this country and abroad, have taken up the subject with im- proved instruments. Among those who have arrived at conclu- sions similar to those of Fontana may be men- tioned the names of Lauth, Miiller, Schwann, and Henle. Others, however, have entertained very opposite and, as 1 believe, erroneous views of the composition of the fibre. MandliT con- ceives the cross marking's to be produced by a * Some of these preparations were lately shewn me by Baron Larrey, to whom they were presented by Prochaska himself, during the occupation of Vienna by the French. t Sur le Venin de la Vipere, &c. 1781. X Phil. Trans. 1818 & 1826. § Appendix to Translation of Dr. Edwards's work, De lTnfluence des Agens Physiques sur la Vie. *H Traite pratique du Microscope, p. 74-5. Paris, 1839.