680 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. The Ekcephalon.) Fig. 384. Anterior view of the medulla oblongata, shewing the decussation of the pyramids, and of the upper part of the spinul cord. ( After Mayo.) p, anterior pyramids. o, olivary bodies. r, restiform bodies. d, decussating fibres. al, antero-lateral column of the spinal cord. c, anterior fissure of the cord, the floor of which forms the anterior commissure. sure. Superiorly the pyramids pass into the mesocephale above the inferior fibres of the pons Varolii, and interlace with other fibres of the same system which occupy a more elevated plane. In its passage into the mesocephale, each pyramid experiences a marked constric- tion, which alters its form from a prism to a cylinder. The fibres, however, soon diverge and expand. As they ascend through the me- socephale they are crossed by the transverse fibres of the pons, and some grey matter occu- pies the interstices between them,with which it is probable that other fibres are connected, and are added to those of the pyramids, as they emerge from the mesocephale at its anterior extremity. The pyramids gradually diminish in size towards the inferior extremity of the medulla oblongata. And here three sets of fibres may be distinctly noticed. The first, or decussating fibres, are the most numerous; they pass downwards and backwards into the antero- lateral column of the spinal cord on the oppo- site side, so that the right pyramid sends fibres into the left half of the cord, and the left pyra- mid into the right half of the cord. These decus- sating fibres consist of from three to five bundles from each pyramid, which in their descent cross and interlace with each other ffigs. 384,385, d). They differ in distinctness as well as in number in various subjects. The point at which the decussation takes place is about ten lines below the margin of the pons Varolii, and the inter- ruption to the fissure, occasioned by the cross- ing of the fibres, occupies a space of from two to four lines. To expose these fibres clearly it is necessary to remove the pia mater carefully from the anterior surface of the medulla ob- longata to some distance below the decussation, and it is, in general, of advantage to the pre- paration to place it in alcohol immediately after the removal of the pia mater. A second set of fibres, very few in number, are continued from the pyramids directly down to the anterior surface of the cord on the same side, and appear to be continuous with some of the superficial fibres of the antero-lateral column. These fibres may be regarded as the direct channel of communication of each half of the medulla oblongata with the corre- sponding half of the spinal cord (fig.385, n). The third series of fibres vary considerably in point of developement in differeut indivi- duals. They pass between the pyramids and the postero-lateral columns of the medulla ob- longata, the restiform columns. They form a series of curves with their concavities directed upwards (fig. 383, A),crossing beneath the infe- rior extremity of the olivary body, and some- times extending over a considerable portion of its surface. I have on several occasions seen these fibres so largely developed as to cover nearly the whole surface of each olivary body. These fibres are appropriately distinguished by the name uniform from their arched course (processus arciformes, Santorini). When these fibres are so numerous as to cover the surface of the olivary body, we may observe that those which are nearest the margin Fig. 385. p Anterior surface of the medulla oblongata, with a por- tion of the spinal cord and of the pons Varolii, as seen obliquely from the right side. (After Mayo.) P, pons Varolii—its left half. o, o, olivary bodies. p, part of the right anterior pyramid, cut across near the inferior edge of the pons, and torn down, showing the passage of some of its fibres over to the left side and backwards. d, decussating fasciculus of fibres of right py- ramid. d', decussating fasciculus of left pyramid. n, non-decussating fibres of the right pyramid.