355 MICROSCOPE. mate of the magnifying power of a microscope must depend upon the standard which we assume as the ordinary distance at which the object is seen with the naked eye; since, if brought within five inches, it is seen under double the angle, and therefore of double the size which it appears to possess at ten inches. If, therefore, the former distance were taken as a standard, the magnifying power of a lens or microscope will only be half that at which it would be estimated with reference to the other. Nearly all opticians, however, have agreed in considering ten inches as the standard of com- parison; and when, therefore, an object is figured as magnified 100 diameters, it is meant that this figure placed at ten inches distance from the eye is 100 times the dimension, each way, of the real object seen with the eye alone at a similar distance. The measurement of the magnifying power of simple or compound microscopes by this standard is attended with no difficulty. All that is requisite is to have a glass or thin slip of ivory accurately divided to a small fraction of an inch (1|roth will usually answer very well), and a common foot-rule, divided to tenths of an inch. The glass or ivory micrometer being adjusted to the focus of the magnifier, the rule is held parallel with it, at the distance of ten inches from the eye. If the second eye be then opened, whilst the other is looking at the object, the circle of light included within the field of view, and the object itself will be seen faintly projected upon the rule ; and it will be very easy to mark upon the latter the apparent distances of the divi- sions on the micrometer, and thence to ascer- tain the magnifying power. Tims, supposing that each of the divisions of -,Lth of an inch corresponded with 1^ inch upon the rule, the linear magnifying power is 150 diameters; if it corresponded with half an inch, the mag- nifying power would be 50 diameters. The superficial magnifying power is of course esti- mated by squaring the linear; but this is a mode of statement never adopted by scientific observers, although often employed to excite popular admiration or to attract customers by those whose interest is concerned in doing so. When the magnifying powers of the several objectives of a microscope are known, it is easy to make a fair approximation to the real size of an object under examination, by projecting its image, as before, upon a foot-scale held at ten inches distance ; and the apparent dimensions it there exhibits, divided by the magnifying power employed, will of course be its real size. More accurate measurements are generally re- quired, however, although the foregoing may serve as a sufficiently near approximation for ordinary purposes. Various methods of ob- taining these have been devised. The most perfect measurements are obtained by a fine micrometer-screw, by turning which either the object or the body will be made to execute a transverse movement; just as, in the fine ad- justment of the focus, the body is made to approach or recede from the stage. This ap- paratus may be attached to the stage, if it be thought preferable to move the object, or to the arm if the body be made to traverse. In proportion to the fineness of the screw, and to the size of the milled-head, will measurements be obtained of minute accuracy. In the focus of the eye-piece a very fine thread is placed ; and one edge of the image being brought against it, the position of the micrometer is noticed; and the other edge being then brought to the same line, the number of divisions of the micrometer-screw, which have passed over the index, will indicate its size. The expen- siveness of this micrometer, when made with sufficient accuracy and minuteness, is the only bar to its general employment. Other means have been devised, however, which are scarcely inferior; and the simplest of these requires only the use of an eye-piece of a construction different from the ordinary, with coarsely di- vided glasses. The micrometer eye-piece is made upon the principle of Ramsden's. The optical part of it differs from that in common use, in having the plane side of the field-glass turned towards the object; and in the adjust- ment of the foci of its lenses in such a manner that the image to be viewed by it must be beneath the field-glass instead of being be- tween it and the eye-glass. In its focus there is placed a plane glass with divisions on it; these may be from Jflth to TLth of an inch apart; the latter will enable very minute mea- surements to be taken. By this arrangement, when the object is brought into focus, it ap- pears as if it were traversed by cross lines; since its image is coincident with the divided glass, and is, like it, viewed by the eye-piece as by a simple microscope. The value of these divisions will, of course, depend upon the degree in which the object is magnified in the image; and they must be ascertained for every objective, by the divided glass or ivory mi- crometer. This beina; brought into focus, and so placed that the direction of its two sets of lines shall correspond with those of the divided glass in the eye-piece, the number of divisions in the latter, corresponding to each division of the former, must be observed, and their value will be thus ascertained. Thus, if one divi- sion on the igijth inch micrometer be found to coincide with eight on the eye-piece, these eight will together indicate a dimension of -fath of an inch upon the object; and each division of the eye-piece will of course be equivalent to the g^jth of an inch. If there is not an exact correspondence, or if it be desired to obtain a power which can be expressed in round numbers, a little alteration in the length of the body, made by drawing out his eye- piece, will enable the microscopist to effect this; but the eye-piece should be marked, so as to be adjustible to the same point again, when the same magnifying power is employed. When the value of the divisions on the glass in the eye-piece is ascertained for every mag- nifier, the object-glass micrometer may be put aside altogether; since by the use of the eye- piece alone, a series of lines, the real distance corresponding to which is known, is projected 2 a 2