428 MOTION. dissimilar orders, the areas of the wings do not vary as the weights of the birds. The ratio of the times of the descent and as- cent of the wing will cause a corresponding difference in the ratio of the resistance of the air, which is not as the velocity simply, but as tlie square of the velocity. The velocity of the wing varies according to the celerity with which the bird moves, and it moves through a greater or less arc according as the bird merely sus- pends itself in the air or is in rapid motion, on the rational supposition that birds employ their locomotive organs in such a manner as to econo- mize as much as possible the expenditure of their muscular power. We find by the an- nexed analysis that for this purpose the ratio of the time of the descent of the wings to that of their ascent is nearly as one to two, and that the ratio of the resistance of the up to that of the down stroke lies between one-half, one-fourth, and one-fifth. In the Swallow, for example, in order that the bird may merely sustain itself in the air, the centre of the wings, according to Chabrier, must descend with a velocity of about seven metres, or 22 9662944 feet per second, which, we find by the annexed analysis, gives 15-3 for the number of vibrations, and for the minimum amount of action expended in the same time, a force which would raise its own weight to the height of 26'246 feet. The ratio of the time of the ascent and de- scent of the wing becomes much greater when the bird moves against the wind, suppose about forty-eight feet per second, or in rapid flight; and the velocity of the descent of the wings, and quantity of action expended, will augment in proportion. The great quantity of action ex- pended in flight tends to confirm the views of Bo- relli respecting the vast power with which the pec- toral muscles of birds are endowed. In small birds the oscillations are performed with such great rapidity, that they cannot be numbered by the eye; but in the finches and humming- birds, the oscillations of which produce a musi- cal note, the pitch will enable us to determine with accuracy the number of oscillations in a given time. In large birds, the wings move through arcs of greater circles than in small ones, and the times of their periodic oscilla- tions decrease in the same ratio, and may thus be more easily numbered : the areas of their wings, and the resistance which they encounter, bear some proportion to the greater weight of the body : but although theory ascribes to the wings a large number of oscillations, it by no means follows that they perform the exact number assigned at least for any length- ened period. On the contrary, we observe that many birds, such as the Woodpecker,* and most Insessores, give a few strokes of the wings by which the body acquires a projec- tile velocity sufficient to elevate it through a considerable space, and that when the im- pulse thus given is nearly expended, they re- peat this action, and again suspend it. If they are moving horizontally, their progression is performed in a similar manner; the axis of the bird is inclined upwards at each impulse like a projectile, but the mean motion is horizontal. The curve described during each projection is a parabola. After a few strokes, during the ascent, the wings are folded until the bird has passed the vertex of the curve, and has de- scended to some distance on the opposite side, when they suddenly expand their wings again, and by a few strokes describe a new curve. In this mode of progression the velocity is very variable, being equal to that which a body would acquire by falling through one-fourth of the parameter of each point in the curve. Many large birds, such as the Rooks, Pigeons, &c. when descending frcm great heights ex- pand their wings, and incline the axis of their bodies obliquely downwards, as in fig. 222. Fig. 222. In this case the air opposes sufficient resistance in a vertical direction upwards to keep in equili- brio the force of gravity acting upon the body vertically downwards, so that the motion of the bird becomes uniform, without requiring any movement of the wings.f Another mode of de- where the formula gives 7.38, and observation from 2 to 3 flappings per second. It is worthy of remark that by supposing V to be equal to the cube root, instead of the square root of | 2Wg- p—q irKA the number of flappings in each of the last two cases by the formula, agrees very closely with the number determined by the mean of several observations. The quantity of force expended would be greater if the density of the air were less, but it would only increase in the ratio of 1.4 to 1 if the air were but half as dense. We may, therefore, conclude that the height to which a bird can raise itself is limited not so much by want of sufficient support in the resistance of the air as by the difficulty of respiring in too rare an atmosphere. * The Rook appears to make from ten to fifteen, and the Pigeon from ten to twenty-three effective strokes of the wing in five seconds. t The soft downy feathers which line the wings of the nocturnal rapacious birds, as the Owl, permit the wings to perform its evolutions during flight in search of their prey without noise. On the contrary, in the diurnal species of this order, which chase and capture their prey in open day, and where no secrecy would suffice, the feathers are strong, and their passage threugh the air is accompanied with a rushing noise.