NERVOUS CENTRES. (Humai mispbere. Again, Nos. 2, on opposite sides, resemble each other so closely that their sym- metrical relation cannot be doubted. The like- ness, however, is impaired by slight fissures in the convolution on the left which do not exist in that on the right side. Nos. 3 and 3 evidently correspond, but that of the right side is the larger and more undulating. And it may here be remarked that this great developement of the convolution marked 3 on the right side affects materially the position, relations, and shape of those in its neighbourhood, by throwing them backwards or outwards and altering their form. Thus the position and shape of con- volution 4 seems evidently modified by the large posterior undulations of convolution 3. In the brain from which the figure was taken, the convolutions on the right side are evidently larger and more highly developed than those of the left. It does not appear that there is any constancy with respect to the relative size of the convolutions of the right and left side, sometimes one side predominating, sometimes the other; nor have we any clue to discover the cause of the difference between the two hemispheres, or the reason of the variation as regards predominance of size. In the imperfectly developed brains of the infant or young child, the convolutions are quite symmetrical. They are so likewise in idiots, or persons of very inferior intellect, and, as has been already stated, in some Negro brains. The following convolutions of the human brain are constant in their position, although they differ much in different brains in size and developement. Anatomy. The Encepjialon.) 097 1. The internal convolution, or that of the corpus callosum, called by Foville convolution d'ourlct (processo cristuto, Rolando). The principal portion of this convolution is above and parallel to the corpus callosum : in front it curves down parallel to the anterior reflection of the corpus callosum, as far as the locus per- foratus, connecting itself with some of the ante- rior convolutions. Behind it passes in a similar manner round the posterior reflexion, connecting itself with some of the posterior convolutions, and in the middle lobe forming the hippocam- pus major, the anterior extremity of which is situate immediately behind the fissure of Sylvius and locus perforatus. Its horizontal portion appears to be connected with some nearly ver- tical ones, which seem indeed to branch off from it. (Fig. 395, O.) This is the most constant and regular con- volution of the brain. It exhibits with its fel- low of the opposite side very exact symmetry. Its inferior or concave border is smooth and uninterrupted, and foims the superior boun- dary of a sulcus, which intervenes between it and the surface of the corpus callosum. It forms, to use Foville's expression, a hem or selvage to the cortical layer of the cerebral hemisphere. The fibrous matter which is in- closed by the cortical layer of this convolu- tion consists of longitudinal fibres following the same general direction, a large number of them no doubt bending inwards into the cor- tical layer. These fibres are evidently com- missural in their office, and will be referred to by-and-bye as constituting the superior longi- tudinal commissure. The free margin of this convolution varies in Internal surface of the left hemisphere of the brain, shewing the connections of the internal convolution and the band of longitudinal fibres by which it is formed (d'ourlet). C, C, corpus callosum ; O, 0, 0, internal convolution ; b, septum hicidum ; a, anterior commissure ■ /, fornix -, c, superior layer of the crus cerebri ; d, inferior layer of the same separated from the former by t tic locus niger. The fibres of the internal convolution are seen in the middle lobe extending to the hippocampus major.