68 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. does so, whilst the patella, tibia, and condyles of the femur sink towards the ham, and are drawn upwards behind the broken extremity of the shaft of the os femoris, which is thrown forwards." He adds that falls from a great height on the feet or knees have been the usual sources of this accident.* In most of the cases already met with, and described, of oblique fracture of the lower extremity of the shaft of the femur, the direction of the obliquity was from above downwards, and from behind for- wards, and the pointed extremity of the broken bone was consequently directed downwards and forwards; but the pointed extremity has been seen towards the popliteal space. In Sir Charles Bell's lectures on the thigh-bone which he has published, there is an engraving of a very remarkable case, which appears to us to have been an oblique facture of the femur near the knee-joint, in which the pointed extremity of the superior fragment presented towards the popliteal space.t About twenty years after the bone had been fractured, the patient, in jump- ing down from a chair, felt something snap, and very soon after a pulsating tumour formed, which was discovered to be a popliteal aneurism. The direction of the course of an oblique frac- ture may be various ; that downwards and out- wards is the least likely to be followed by dangerous consequences. 3. ()blique fractures of the os femoris into the knee-joint, detaching laterally the condyles, are not very uncommon accidents; they may be known by the great and sudden swelling of the joint by which they are accompanied, by the great degree of lateral motion which can be communicated to the limb, by the crepitus which can be felt, and by the obvious deformity with which they are attended. It is sometimes the inner condyle, and some- times the outer, which is detached from the shaft; and in these cases the cavity of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint is always opened into by the fracture. The following case presents a good example of an oblique simple fracture, which detached the outer con- dyle of the femur from the shaft of this bone. Ganet Doyle, st. 45, was admitted into the Richmond Hospital under the care of Dr. Hut- ton on the 27th March, 1839. He stated that about ten minutes before his admission he was standing on a double ladder about four feet from the ground ; the ladder gave way under him suddenly, and he fell with it, the right limb having been engaged between two of the steps. During the fall he was sensible of being bruised below the knee by the steps, and of something " cringing" in the lower part of the thigh ; im- mediately after the fall he found the limb quite poweiless and was unable to put it under him. Tumefacrion of the knee and lower part of the thigh took place instantly and to a great extent. On examination the outer condyle was found to move and grate against the inner through the centre of the joint; no breach of continuity *,Sir A. Cooper on Dislocations, 8th edition, place xv. t Fig. 3, plate iv. could be detected between the inner condyle and shaft of the bone. The femur, as the pa- tient endeavoured to stand, was directed down- wards and inwards, and the tibia downwards and outwards, so that the junction of these two bones at the knee-joint formed an obtuse angle salient internally. There was considerable enlargement of the femur in the situation of the fracture for several inches above the knee- joint, and on measurement there was shortening of the injured limb for half an inch. By making extension, and by pressing the condyles towards each other, the natural form of the limb was restored. No fever nor constitutional disturb- ance arose, and at the end of the fifth week passive motion was recommended. When the man left the hospital the external appearance of the joint was very nearly natural, except that the patella had been elevated at its outer edge obliquely by the callus which had united the fracture. When this bone was moved across the trochlea of the femur, a roughness was per- ceived to exist on the corresponding surface, and a sensation of something grating was con- veyed to the fingers of the examiner. There was some shortening of the limb, which also still remained more inclined inwards towards the knee-joint than natural, and the movement of flexion was limited. Sometimes an oblique fracture occurs through the lower part of the femur into the joint, which detaches the inner condyle. The prognosis in these cases of simple oblique fractures of the inner and of the outer con- dyle of the femur, so far as life is concerned, does not appear, from what we have seen of them, unfavourable ; but we have known some examples of what may be designated as T fractures of the lower extremity of the femur— that is to say, a transverse fracture of the lower extremity of this bone, combined with a ver- tical split from the transverse fracture down through thetrochleainto theoutercondyloidfossa of the femur, in which the prognosis is generally unfavourable, even when the fracture is uncpm- bined with any wound in the integuments. Mr. Chelius, of Heidelberg, shewed Mr. Smith and the writer, in August 1837, two specimens of T fracture of the lower extremity of the femur. In the first case, the exact nature of the accident was unknown to Mr. Che- lius. Violent inflammation set in in the knee- joint and the whole limb, causing the death of the patient. In the second case he recognized the nature of the injury early, and amputation in the thigh saved the patient In such cases, to decide at once whether amputation shall be immediately resorted to or not, becomes a very critical and often a very urgent question. If the first opportunity be lost, the constitutional symptoms attendant on the local inflammation set in so speedily, and run to such a height, that a second seldom offers ; the two following examples, however, should caution us against deciding hastily on immediate amputation in cases of simple fracture, in which the cavity of the knee-joint is implicated, because, although in the first case the femur was broken into a great number of fragments, the inflammation