505 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. particularly on the distribution of the blood- vessels, which Ruysch and Liebeikuhn particu- larly illustrated ; and, by the general advance of knowledge, the way was being gradually prepared towards that more philosophical ar- rangement of the tissues of the body, in con- formity with their intimate texture and con- nexions, of which the first example is to be found in the work of Bonn,*' already alluded to. He here traces, with great accuracy, the continuity of the skin and mucous membranes at the different orifices of the body, and he clearly recognises their close structural rela- tion, considering the mucous membranes to be productions of the skin. To our countryman, Dr. Carmichael Smith,+ we are indebted for the first application of this arrangement to the purposes of pathological classification, and Pinel soon after followed in the same track.]; But a new era dates from the remarkable works of Bichat,§ in which he delineated the structure, vital and other properties, and the relations of the different tissues of the body, and arranged them on a basis, which, though faulty in some of its details, has received no essential modification in its princip'es since his time, and entitles him to the praise of rare genius and sagacity. He seems to have clearly perceived the true connexion that exists between the skin, mucous membranes, and glands, al- though he failed to carry out his views into the subdivisions of his system, where he was still fettered by the crude notions of his predeces- sors. One of the most remarkable features in his work, bearing on the present subject, is the analogy he draws between the epidermis of the skin and the mucus of mucous membranes, an analogy which he discovered with the eye of the mind, which has been since often rejected, but which can now be shewn to be real by the eye of sense. Most writers of eminence since the time of Bichat have adopted the principal part of his views, and some have advanced further towards a full recognition of the homology of the skin, mucous membranes, and glands, among whom must be mentioned, in particular, J. Muller, whose classical work on the glands,|| published in 1830, placed him at once in the foremost rank among the anatomists of our own day. Subsequently to that date, the improve- ments in the construction of the microscope and the consequent employment of gieater magnifying powers, have added an extraor- dinary stimulus to anatomical and physiolo- gical studies, and directed a host of inquirers into an almost unexplored field, from which the harvests already reaped give the most fa- vourable earnest of future and rapid additions to the stores of knowledge. To the Germans is unequivocally due the merit of having far outstripped all other nations in the honourable * Dc continuationibus Mcmbranarum. Koterod. 1769. t Medical Communications, vol. ii. London, 1790. J Nosographie Philosopbique. Paris, 1798. § Traite des Membranes, 1800. Anatoinie Gene- rale, 1801. || De Glandiilanim secernentium structura peni- tiori. Lipsis, 1830. path thus opened, and in no collateral path of inquiry which has been pursued to the same extent, has so much new, interesting, and im- portant information of an accurate and satis- factory character, been obtained, as in that which it has been my duty to treat of in the present article. The names of Purkinje, Va- lentin, Ilenle, and Schwann deserve primary honour in this place, and to these may be added those of Ehrenberg, Treviranus, R. Wagner, Boelim, Wasmann, Gruby, and Gerber. Among the French anatomists, MM. Turpin, Mandl, and Donne have contributed much, and our own countrymen have not been be- hind. Dr. Sharpey, Dr. Sprott Boyd, Dr. Todd, Mr. Nasmyth, Dr. Barry, and Mr. Toynbee, are all distinguished in this field of research.* In the present article ] have endeavoured to combine with all the authentic information I could obtain from these sources, the results to which I have been brought by a two-years' study of the anatomical characters of the whole mucous system. So rapid, however, are the daily advances of knowledge, that it is possible much has been omitted which is already in some shape before the public, and, on the other hand, that a few years may gieatly modify the genera! views that are here set forth. As the anatomical details, however, have been all sub- stantiated by my own observations, except where otherwise stated, I am enabled to speak with more confidence of their correctness. Bibliography.— (See also the list of works appended to the articles GLAND and SKIN.)—Mar- celius Malpigliius, De viscerum structura. Op. omnia, Lond. 1587. Peyer, De gland, intest. Amstel. 1681. J. C. Brunner, De glandulis duodeni, Fran- cofurt. 1715. Lieberkuhn, De fabrica et act. vill. intest. bom. Lugd. Hat. 1744, 4io. Nailer, Ele- menta Physiol, lib. xi. Bonn, Specimen Anato- mico-Medicum, &c. extat in Sandifort. Thesauro, vol. ii. Koterodami, 1769, xii. p. 265. Carmichael Smith, In transactions of a Soc. for promoting Med. Know], vol. ii. Lond. 1790. Soemmering, Bane des Menscblichen kbrpers. Frankfurt a M. 1791. It. A. Hedwig, Disquis. Ampull. Lieber- kui.nii physico-microsc. Lipsiae, 1797, 4to. Pinel, Nosographie philosopbique, Paris, 1798. X. Bi- chat, Traite des Membranes, Paris, 1800; Ana- tomie generale, 1801. K. A. Rudolphi, Progr.de bumani corporis panibus simil. 4to. Giypb. 1809. J. F. Meckel, Handbuch der Menschlichen Ana- tomie, Bd. 1. Halle, 1815. C. Mayer, iiber His- tologie u. eine neue Eintheilung der Gewebe des Menschlichen Kbrpers, 8vo. Bonn, 1818. H. Buerger, Kxamen Microsc. vill. imest. Hake, 1819. F, A. Beclard, Elemens d'anatomie generate, 8vo. Paris, 1825. Billard, De la membrane muqueuse gastro-intestinale, &c. 8vo. Paris, 1825. Craigie, Elements of general and pathological anatomy, Edinb. 1828. Duellinger, De vasis sanguiferis qua? villis intestinorum, &c. insunt, Monachii, 1828. E. H. Weber, Hildebrandt's Anatomie, 1830. J. Muller, De glandul. secernentium structura peni- tiori, Lipsia?, 1830; and, in English, Mr. Solly's abridged translation. G. Breschet, Ann. des Sciences Nat. 1834. Purkinje & Valentin, C'ommentatio phy- siolo«ica de phenom. motus vibratorii continui, &c. 4to. Wratislav. 1835. Isis, 1838, No. 7. Boehm, * To these must now be added Mr. Goodsir, who, in a paper (of which an abstract has been just pub- lished) read at the Hoyal Society of Edinburgh on the 30th March, supports the view of secretion here given, with several new proofs. See Lond. and Edin. .Monthly Journal of Med. Science, May, 1842.