PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 723a nature of the mind.* But no doubt his fears are unfounded ; for if we hold that a connec- tion subsists between soul and brain so intimate that every change in either affects the other more or less, surely the strongest inducement is held out for the minutest investigation of the organ which can exercise so wonderful an influence on the immortal part of our nature. I would, then, lay it down that the proper function of the brain is to generate the nervous force, and that that force affects the soul and excites its action for the developement of mental phenomena. On the other hand, the action of the soul affects the brain, exciting it to the de- velopement of nervous force, and directing that force for the production or regulation of other corporeal phenomena. Taking this view of the nature of the mind, and of the relation of mind and body, we may, with advantage, arrange the principal mental states into two classes, according as they are preceded by certain states of body, or as they precede and are capable of exciting certain states of body. In the first class I would place sensation, and such mental states as are immediately asso- ciated with or produced by sensation, as the emotions and the passions. To this class I would likewise refer that peculiar power which is, with the highest probability, exercised by the cerebellum, and to which we must give the name of balancing or coordinating power. It is a power which, like the emotions and passions, is exercised without any previous train of thought or intellectual process, and seems sim- ply to be evolved as an immediate consequence of certain sensations, which are developed un- der the influence of impressions made upon the organs which are to be submitted to its regulation. Thus, in locomotion, the exercise of the muscles produces the sensation upon which the evolution of this mental power de- pends, which reacts upon the same muscles with an intensity proportionate to the exciting impulse. In the exercise of this power there is much analogy with the ordinary reflex acts; but while the latter are purely physical in their nature, the former may be clearly shown to be mental. The proofs of this are derived, 1, from its being never accomplished without conscious- ness ; 2, from its being always associated with volition ; 3, from the curious differences in the mode of its exercise in different individuals, according to differences of mental and physical constitution, one man being expert and precise in all his movements, another awkward and clumsy; 4, from the marked improvement which may be effected in it by instruction and duly regulated practice. In the second class I would place volition and attention. In these the mind has clear- ly the initiative, and is capable of inducing certain states of body, either to move certain organs (voluntary motion), or to concentrate one or more of the inlets of sensation upon some external objects (attention). The power * Wigan on the Duality of the Mind. Lond., 1844. of abstraction, imagination, and all purely in- tellectual processes, are obviously associated with these. The symmetrical disposition of the parts of the encephalon on each side of the median plane has been recognised by all anatomists. This symmetry is so complete that we may, with perfect correctness, speak of two brains, a right and a left brain, which are united to each other by transverse commissures. The right brain corresponds exactly with the left, just as much as the right eye corresponds with the left. This doubleness of the brain, no doubt, accords curiously with the double- ness of all the organs of sense, and very pro- bably is rendered necessary by the existence of the double set of inlets to sensation. It is remarkable, however, that a perfect symmetry of the convolutions is not found in the higher races of mankind, and in individuals of high intellectual powers; and that the greater the mental power, the less symmetrical are the convolutions. In the inferior races, on the other hand, as Tiedemann has well shown, the symmetry of the convolutions is exact. Upon the proved existence of two brains, as thus explained, Dr. Wigan, adopting the mate- rialist view of mental phenomena, rests the theory that the mind is dual ; that we have two minds; that each brain performs its own mental functions, which are in perfect harmony, if the two brains harmonise in quality, structure, and action. It cannot be doubted that two brains, thus symmetrical in structure, must have a tanta mount symmetry of function, if I may be allowed the expression ; and that, therefore, in order to insure harmony of action between them, and to prevent the actions of one from interfering with or neutralising those of the other, some such organic connection between them is necessary as that which exists between the two retinse, and which converts the sepa- rate and in some degree dissimilar physical impressions made on each of them into one sensation. And as any interference with the organic conditions necessary to secure single vision with two eyes produces double vision, so it is not unreasonable to expect that an analogous imperfection in the organic union between the two brains may occasion doubleness of mental impression and action. Such a conclusion, as Dr. Wigan has ingeniously suggested, gives the clue to the explanation of such phenomena as states of double consciousness, delusions, irregular volitions, and some forms of insanity ; and, if fairly worked out by physiological psy- chologists, may solve other obscurities con- nected with the phenomena of the mind. While, therefore, I admit that great practical interest and value attach to Dr. Wigan's views respecting the action of two brains, I am not prepared to infer the existence of two minds from that of two brains; no more than I can assume a duality of our visual sense from the existence of two eyes. The two cases, indeed, are strictly analogous. The organic change in each retina developes a