57 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. of the femur was superficially removed for the size of a sixpence. To this softened, ulcerated, or abraded point the principal pain was referred, by the patient during life. There were not any loose and vascular synovial fringes hanging into the interior of the joint, but examining at the circumference of the cartilage, where it invests the external condyle of the femur, this mem- brane and its subsynovial tissue were very red, vascular, and villous-looking. The outer edge of the cartilaginous covering of the femoral condyle was thin and minutely serrated, and the eye of the probe could be placed under this edge. John Nugent, a?t. 19, was admitted into the Richmond Hospital, January, 1839. He had been under treatment in the country for six months for a disease of the leftknee-joint which originated in a blow on the joint from the handle of a printing-press. He fainted at the time of the accident, and the pain never ceased from that day up to this period of his admission. He was reduced a good deal in flesh. He had occasional perspirations during the night, parti- cularly about the head, and starting pain shoot- ing up and down the leg. He could not bear the joint to be moved but kept it semiflexed, and the limb lying on the outside. He stated that before his admission he had never been altogether confined for the complaint. There was some little swelling of the knee, which was tender on pressure. There was no swelling in the ham, nor enlargement of the inguinal glands. The calf of the leg was wasted, and the thigh also was less than the other by an inch in the measure of its circumference above the knee. He remained much in thisstate until March 14th, when he complained of suffering a constant " dead pain" across the joint below the patella ; besides this there was occasionally a throbbing sensation which was more distressing to him than any other, even than the spasmodic starting of the limb. On the 2nd of April a valvular opening was made with caution into an abscess on the inside below the articulation; thin curdy matter came away. This gave him some relief. On the 4th another opening was made in the outside above the joint, where also the abscess showed itself: matter of a similar description came away. Previous to these punctures hav- ing been made, amputation was proposed to the man as the only means of escape from this disease, but he preferred to have the abscesses opened. Fever did not follow upon this first or second operation, but subsequently it set in, and ran very high for four days, during which he perspired largely and had much pain and starting of the limb, with head-ache and anxiety of manner, and for two days he was in a con- fused state bordering on delirium. Nor did the evacuation of the purulent matter prevent the enlargement of the cavities of the abscesses connected with the diseased joint, as appears by the following report, dated May 10th, made by our clinical clerk, Dr. Bradshaw. " The abscess has ascended up the thigh, running high up the popliteal region. The hectic fever is severe; his pulse in general 120, small and compressible; emaciation had advanced and is still advancing; his strength is giving way under the disease, and he must soon sink if amputation be not consented to." On the 10th May the report was, " Diarrhcea still con- tinues, but without abdominal pain or tender- ness. The emaciation is very great. Pulse 120, small, and compressible. Tongue red, moist, and morbidly clean. The flexion of the leg on the thigh becomes every day more and more considerable, so that the angle becomes daily more acute." On the following day amputation high up was performed. The disease of the knee had much affected the cartilaginous struc- tures of the joint,the absorption of which seemed to have been effected by a vascular pulpy mem- brane. The parts that had suffered most were the external condyle of the femur, the inner head of the tibia, and the inner and posterior surface of the patella. Along the trochlea of the femur there existed longitudinal grooves or furrows in the cartilage, which was not removed. A highly vascular and pulpy membrane was found filling the parts wherever the cartilage had been absorbed, and this membrane could be traced insinuating itself beneath the edge of the remaining portions of the cartilage, by which means the process of absorption seemed to have been effected. In the interior of the joint there were much pus and flakes of lymph, and where the cartilages had been removed the porous surface of the bones had been covered by soft layers of lymph of very recent formation. Chronic rheumatic arthritis of the knee.— In the articles Hand, Hip, Elbow, &c. in this work we have treated of a chronic disease affecting other articulations, which we have denominated chronic rheumatic arthritis; we shall now give an account of the symptoms and anatomical characters of this disease as we have found it in the knee-joint. W hen this articulation is affected with it, other joints in the same individual will also be found more or less implicated. The commencement of this disease of the knee is marked by evidences of subacute inflammation, such as pain, heat, con- siderable swelling. This is followed by a second period, in which the heat and swelling diminish, but the pain continues. This pain is usually referred to the inner condyle of the femur and tibia. The patient may for a long period be able to walk, but every movement produces considerable pain, and at lengtli he becomes incapable of walking or even of stand- ing. The limbs diminish in size, but become remarkably firm to the feel. The patient havmg at last lost the power of flexing or extending the limb, the hamstring muscles gradually become more tense. The knee-joints from the com- mencement incline slightly inwards, and the tibia outwards, and this bone is at the same time rotated in this last direction, so that the foot is everted ; if the limb then be kept in the semi-flexed position, and the tibia be thus rotated outward, carrying with it the ligamentum patellae, it is easy to account for the circumstance which we have in some examples witnessed in the disease,—viz. that the patella leans towards the outer condyle, and further, that it is then sometimes thrown completely over it, so as to represent the external dislocation of this bone.