720f NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. Abnormal Anatomy.) quantity from half an ounce to several ounces. Sometimes it is milky, and has shreds of lymph floating in it; at other times it may be sero- purulent, but this is extremely rare, and only occurs when the lining membrane has been the seat of acute inflammation and ot inflammatory deposit. The lining membrane of the ventricles, which in health is of extreme tenuity, becomes fre- quently thickened and partially opaque in chro- nic disease of the brain, where the ventricles are more or less dilated. In acute disease lymph is sometimes deposited upon it in large and loose flakes, easily removeable from it. And sometimes there is a deposit all over its surface of a fine granular semitransparent lymph, which gives to the internal surface of the membrane the appearance of an extremelv' fine and delicate reticulation. As the choroid plexus are covered by a pro- longation of the membrane of the ventricles, their investment is apt to participate in any morbid process which may take place in the former. In acute affections it will be covered with lymph, as the membrane lining the ven- tricles is elsewhere. When much water has been accumulated in the ventricles, the choroid plexus are pushed against their floor, flattened, and rendered pale by maceration. On the other hand, whatever causes much vascular congestion in the vessels of the brain will produce the same effect in a marked manner upon those of the choroid plexus. Earthy concretions are sometimes found in the choroid plexus, which may probably be an augmentation of the crystalline matter found in them in their healthy state. These appear to •consist chiefly of phosphate and carbonate of lime. A very common appearance found in the choroid plexus consists in certain vesicles, very variable both in size and number. These are simple cysts, containing a straw-coloured fluid. Formerly they used to be regarded as hydatids, but they are now known to be essentially dis- tinct from them. They occur frequently in brains which exhibit no other departure from the normal condition. Of their precise nature, and of their cause and mode of formation, nothing is known ; and as they are seldom of a large size they are not likely so to disturb the functions of the brain as to give rise to symptoms by which their presence could be delected. On the pseudo-morbid appearances of the nervous centres and their coverings.-—The ac- tual indications afforded by any departure from the normal physical condition of the nervous centres after death are so important to the attain- ment of right conclusions respecting the patho- logy of the nervous system, that it behoves the anatomist to take fully into account all those circumstances which may give rise to appear- ances in the cerebro-spinal centres or their membranes simulating disease. Such appear- ances, not inappropriately termed pseudo-mor- bid, occur in the greater or less vascular fulness of the membranes and of the centres themselves, in the variations in the quantity of fluid around or within the brain, or around the spinal cord, and in the consistence of the nervous matter. The circumstances which affect the amount of blood in the vessels are the mode of death and the position in which the head has been laid after death. Death by asphyxia, whether rapid or gradual, favours the accumulation of blood in the vessels of the brain. Convulsions preceding death likewise cause turgescence of these vessels. Any impediment to the circula- tion through the heart has the same effect, but to the greatest degree when the impediment is much felt on the right side of the heart. The position of the head after death affects the vascular fulness by favouring the accumula- tion of blood in the most dependent parts. From this circumstance and from the custom of placing bodies on the back, we always find the posterior lobes of the cerebral hemispheres and the cerebellum most filled with blood, and it is on this account that the straight and other posterior sinuses of the dura mater are always filled with blood. The quantity of fluid around the brain and spinal cord is least in the young and greatest in the old : it is influenced by the bulk of the brain or spinal cord, sometimes disappearing entirely when the brain is so large as to fill the cranial cavity; it is inversely as the quantity of blood, and therefore is considerable in cases of ansemic brain, unless the bulk of the organ have increased from some other cause. Slow deaths from chronic disease favour the accu- mulation of this fluid by diminishing the supply of blood to the brain. In phthisis and other lingering maladies there is almost always a con- siderable amount of subarachnoid fluid. The practitioner should bear in mind that the ab- sence ot subarachnoid fluid is always abnormal, and is in general due to an enlargement of the brain from hyperaemiaor from some other cause. Softening of the nervous matter may be pseudo-morbid. The spinal cord softens very soon after death; but if examined within twenty-four hours it exhibits more density than the brain. With the advance of decomposition the cord becomes extremelv soft and almost diffluent. In the brain the pseudo-morbid softening is colourless, and may be readily mistaken for disease. That the brain is very prone to imbibe fluids is shown by Dr. Patter- son's experiments. The brains of sheep were allowed to remain for a certain number of hours in a given quantity of water, which was rapidly absorbed. The weight of the brains was increased proportionally to the quantity of water which had been imbibed, and the parts most exposed to the fluid were found in a soft- ened slate. In one instance the brain was de- prived of its membranes on one side, and six hours after death it was immersed in a mixture composed of equal parts of ox-bile and water. It weighed three ounces, seven drams, and four grains when prepared for experiment. After remaining in the mixture thirty-six houis it weighed eight ounces and one dram.* These * On the pseudo-morbid appearances of the brain, Ed. Med. and Surg. Journ. for 1842, vol. 57.