ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 75 Internal derangement of the knee.—" The knee-joint," says Mr. Hey, " is not ^infrequently affected with an internal derangement of its component parts, and this sometimes in conse- quence of trifling accidents. The defect is, indeed, now and then removed as suddenly as it is produced, by the natural motions of the joint without surgical assistance; but it may remain for weeks or months, and will then be- come a serious misfortune, as a considerable degree of lameness may remain. This disorder may happen either with or without contusion. In the latter case the accident is easily distin- guished from all others. The joint, with respect to external form, seems perfect; if there be any difference from its natural appearance, it is, that the ligament of the patella appears rather more relaxed than in the sound limb. The leg is readily bent and extended by the hands of the surgeon, and without pain to the patient; at most the degree of uneasiness caused by this flexion and extension is trifling; but the patient himself cannot freely bend, or perfectly extend the limb in walking; he is compelled to walk with an invariable and small degree of flexion. Though the patient is obliged to keep the leg thus stiff in walking, yet in sitting down the affected joint will move like the other." The complaint, Mr. Hey apprehends, may be brought on by any such alteration in the state of the joint as will prevent the condyles of the os femoris from moving truly in the hollow formed by the semilunar cartilages and articular depressions of the tibia. According to him, an unequal tension of the lateral or cross ligaments of the joint, or some slight derangement of the semilunar cartilages, may probably be suffi- cient to predispose any one to this accident. Sir A Cooper, in alluding to the internal de- rangement of the knee-joint described by Hey, calls the accident a " partial luxation of the thigh-bone from the semilunar cartilages;" but it does not appear to us that he had any oppor- tunity of ascertaining the anatomy of such an accident. Sir A. Cooper has observed it to occur most frequently, when a person in walking strikes his toe, the foot being at the time everted, against any projecting body, as the fold of a carpet, after which the patient feels pain in the knee, which cannot be extended. He has also seen this accident happen from a person having suddenly turned in his bed, when, the clothes not suffering the foot to turn with the body, the thigh-bone has slipped from its semilunar carti- lage. He also states that he has known it occur from a sudden twist of the knee inwards when the foot was turned out. He says, " under ex- treme degrees of relaxation, or in cases in which there has been increased secretion into the joint, the ligaments become so much lengthened as to allow the cartilages to glide upon the surface of the tibia, and particularly when pressure is made by the thigh-bone on the edge of the car- tilage. The cartilages which receive the con- dyles of the os femoris are united to the tibia by ligaments; and when these ligaments become extremely relaxed and elongated, the cartilages are easily pushed from their situations by the condyles of the os femoris, which are then brought into contact with the head of the tibia; and when the limb is attempted to be extended, the edges of the semilunar cartilages prevent it." It may be inferred from his observations that the accident may occur either at the internal condyle, which is the more common, or at the external, and that the position of the foot at the time of the occurrence of the accident has much influence in determining which of the semilunar cartilages is to be displaced. Thus, if the toe be everted, the displacement of the internal cartilage will occur ; on the contrary, if the foot be fixed and inverted at the moment of the accident, the subluxation of the external con- dyle of the femur from the external semilunar cartilage will be the accident. Sir A. Cooper adduces the following case. Mr. Henry Dob- lev, set. 37, has often dislocated his knee, turning the foot inwards, and the thigh-bone outwards, by accidentally slipping on uneven ground, or by sudden exertions of the limb. Considerable pain was immediately produced, accompanied with a great deal of swelling. His mode of reducing it is as follows. He sits upon the ground, and then bending the thigh inwards, and pulling the foot outwards, the subluxation of the os femoris being external, the natural position of the limb becomes restored. Mr. L. a well-formed gentleman, aet. 29, has consulted me twice or thrice these last two years concerning this internal derangement of the knee-joint so well described by Hey. Mr. L. complains that, whenever he un- guardedly flexes the knee suddenly, the toe at the time being much inverted, he is instanta- neously seized with very disagreeable sensa- tions in the knee-joint, not amounting to pain. There is a sudden sense of weakness across the front of the joint, the limb is semiflexed, and a great feeling of tightness and stiffness exists behind, along the course and about the insertion of the biceps tendon. All these symptoms come on suddenly from some awk- ward movement or false step, such as, in walk- ing, putting his foot into some unexpected hole, but so very suddenly does the internal derangement occur, that, if walking at the mo- ment, he generally falls to the ground. After a little time, though lame, he is able to walk, and to place the heel to the ground, and though he usually keeps the limb slightly flexed, he can at will extend it These accidents are usually followed by some effusion of synovial fluid into the joint. I have practised with success the extension and sudden flexion of the limb advised by Hey, and my patient has him- self occasionally, and with success, directed this manoeuvre to be practised on him by his servant, or by any one who happened to be at hand when the accident occurred. He attri- butes the first cause of this liability to the sudden derangement of the articulation to a violent sprain of the knee-joint he got while ringing a young and powerful horse ; the latter pulled away from him with such violence, that Mr. L. fell to the ground, and during the fall he felt as if something at the internal side of the knee-joint had been broken : the thigh and tibia were bent in such a manner as