MOTION. 407 probable to those who have any knowledge of the animal,) I tried it also in that position; but though it struggled to regain its former posture, no use was made of the hind claw. I tried several other methods of effecting the object I had in view ; but as all proved futile, I am convinced that some other use must be found for the spur than as an offensive weapon. I have had several subsequent opportunities of repeating the experiments with animals not in a wounded state, and the results have been the same."* Evidence to a like effect is given by the zoologists of the French expedition in the Astro- labe, in reference to the male Echidna.f An objection to the theory of the spur and gland being a defensive apparatus is their absence in the female. Since then this apparatus forms a sexual character, it may be presumed that its func- tion is connected with that of generation. Whether the spur be a weapon for combat among the males,—or, like the spiculum amoris of the Snail, be used to excite the female, the injected secretion being an additional stimulus, —or whether the spur be mechanically useful in retaining the female during the coitus,—are conjectures which must be verified or disproved by actual observation. BlBLIOGRAPH v.—Shaw, Naturalists' Miscellany, 1798. General Zoology, vol. i. 1800. Blumenbuch, Philos. Transactions, 1800 ; and Voigt's Magazin f ur den neuesten Zustand der Naturkunde, Band 2, 1800. Home, Philos. Transactions, 1802, pp. 67 and 356. Ibid. 1819. Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, passim. Cuvier, Lecons d'Anatomie Comparee, 1799-1805, passim. Ossemens Fossiles, 4to. vol. v. 1823. Peron and Lesueur, Voyage de decouvertes aux Tcrres Australes, 1807. Meckel, Beitrage zur Vergleichenden Anatomie, 1808. Fro- riep's Notizen, 1824. Ornithorhynchi paradoxi de- scriptio anatomica, fol. 1826. De Blainville, Dis- sertation sur la place que la famille des Orni- thorynques et des Echidnes doit occupcr dans les series Naturelles, 4to. 1812. Bulletin de la Socitte Philomathique, 1817. Nouvelles Annales du Mu- seum, torn. ii. 1832. Geoffroy St. Hilaire, Ana- tomie Philosophique, torn. i. 1818. Memoire sur les Glandes Abdominales des Ornithorhynques faussement prcsumees mammaires, lcsquelles se- cretent, non du lait, mais du mucus, &c. Gazette Medicale de Paris, 1833. Sur des Glandes Abdo- minales chez l'Ornitborhynque dont. la determina- tion, comme mammaires, fut en Allemagne, et est de nouveau en Angleterre un sujet de contioversie, 8vo. 1833. Rudolphi, Abhandlungen der Berliner Akademie der Wissenschaften, 1829. Jaffe, Thesis inaug. de Ornithorhyncho paradoxo, Berolin, 1823. Traill, Edinburgh Philos. Journal, 1822. Hill, Linnaean Transactions, vol. xiii. 1822. Kno.r, Wernerian Transactions, vol. v. Van der Hoeven, Nova Acta Physico-Medica, torn. xi. 1823. Pander and' D'Alton, Skelete der zahnlosen Thiere, 1825. Grant, (Dr. R.J Annales des Sciences Naturelles, 1829, torn, xviii. M tiller, De Glandularum Secernen- titim Structure penitiori, fol. 1830. Owen, Philos. Transactions, 1832, 1834. Proceedings of the * Zoological Transactions, vol. i. p. 236. t " Nous n'avons point entendu parler d'accident occasionne par cette piqiire, et nous-memes nous avons touche, irrite cet Echidne sans qu'il ait ja- mais clierche a st servir de son arme, pas merne lorsque nous exercions sur elle une asscz forte pres- sion."—Zoologie du Voyage de l'Astrolabc, p. J24. Zoological Society, October, 1832, March, 1833. Zoological Transactions, vol. i. 1834. Bennett, G. Zoological Transactions, 1834. Eydoux 2f Laurent, Voyage de la Favorite, 1836, 8vo. (11. Owen.) MONSTROSITY.—See Teratology. MOTION ANIMAL, ANIMAL DY- NAMICS, LOCO-MOTION, or PRO- GRESSIVE MOTION OF ANIMALS.— Amongst the infinite number of objects pre- sented by the Deity to our contemplation in the sublime spectacle of the universe, there are none, relating to the economy of animal life, more important in their consequences, more calculated to awaken inquiry, or deserving of more profound research, than the phe- nomena of progressive motion in man and animals. Life, in virtue of which animated beings possess sensation and exhibit the play of the vegetative functions, endows the muscular system with contractility, and is the funda- mental cause of all the motor power of animals. The theory of the progressive motion of animals presents a most extensive field for anatomical and physiological inquiry, far too extensive indeed for the space here allotted to this subject; it will therefore be treated only in outline. The automatic, and several of the voluntary motions which belong to the vegetative functions of the animal economy, though de- rived from the same source as those of progres- sive motion, will not be included in this investi- gation. The theory of locomotion relates to those mechanical functions by which animals are capable of changing their relative positions or distances with respect to surrounding ob- jects supposed to be stationary or fixed. The locomotive organs of the higher animals are composed of a system of levers of various forms, orders, and dimensions, so united or ar- ticulated at the joints as to give them the re- quisite mobility as well as direction of motion. The fulcra to these levers are the earth, the air, or the water; the active agents of mo- tion are the muscles which constitute a complex system of contractile organs, firmly attached to the levers, whereof the points of connexion, amount of contraction, and direc- tion of force, communicate to the levers, to which they are firmly attached, all the move- ments necessary for progression. The progression of some animals, such as the Annelida and Ophidian Reptiles, is effected by the alternate contraction or flexion and elongation, or by undulatory movements of the body; in others, as Bipeds, Quadrupeds, Fishes, Birds, &c, by the alternate approxima- tion and angular separation of the levers which form the organs of progression. These prin- ciples apply to animals, whether their levers are represented by wings, fins, or legs, and whether the progression is effected on solids, in water, or in the air. The various modes of animal progression