?22y PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. neither pain nor disturbance of motion. Even the electric current passed through them pro- duces no sensible effect (Matteucci). We are led, therefore, to the conclusion that these fibres have endowments quite distinct from those of sensitive and motor nerves, (a fact, by the way, quite irreconcileable with the doctrine which makes the brain the concourse of these fibres,) and that they are internuncial between parts which are beyond the immediate influence of the ordinary physical agents, and which have no direct connection with muscular organs. The proper stimulant of these fibres is the mind on the one hand, or the nutrient changes in the brain on the other. But, under the influence of a continued morbid irritation, they may excite either pain or convulsion, or both, as is frequently the case in disease of the cerebral meninges; this, however, is effected through a change produced in the corpora striata and optic thalami, and propagated thence to the origins of motof and sensitive nerves, or through irritation of the nerves of the meninges, which affect the centres of motion and sensa- tion, just as the nerves of other parts do. The experiments of Flourens and of Hertwig show that removal of the cerebral hemispheres produces a state of stupor, and, to use Flourens' expression, as it were condemns the animal to perpetual sleep, but deprives it even of the fa- culty of dreaming. There is, however, no para- lytic state produced by these mutilations. It is evident, then, that the effect of these experi- ments is psychical, and it may be adduced as confirmatory of the view which associates the functions of the cerebral convolutions witli the operations of the mind. Pathological anatomy affords interesting con- firmation to this view. Inflammation of the membranes of the brain, more especially of the pia mater, is invariably attended by dis- turbance of the mental faculties, as manifested by more or less delirium. It appears that any material alteration of the circulation in the grey matter of the convolutions is capa- ble of giving rise to delirium; in the in- stance above quoted, the circulation in this part is affected in consequence of the inflam- mation of the pia mater, the bloodvessels of the one being distinctly continuous with those of the other; but in other instances of violent delirium, such, for example, as delirium tremens, the vesicular matter of the convolutions is found after death to be bloodless, as if its wonted supply of blood had been cut off or abstracted from it. We find this state in the delirium after great operations, after puerperal floodings, in the delirium of rheumatic fever, and in that of gout, and likewise in that which occurs in the more advanced stages of fever. We learn from the most trustworthy reports of the dissections of the brains of lunatics that there is invariably found more or less disease of the vesicular surface and of the pia mater and arachnoid in connection with it, denoted by opacity and thickening of the latter with altered colour or consistence of the former. From these premises it may be laid down as a just conclusion that the convolutions of the brain, in other words, that vast sheet of vesicular matter which crowns the convoluted surface of the hemispheres, constitute the centre of intel- lectual action, as distinguished from the centre of volition and the centre of sensation (corpora striata and optic thalami). It is essential to the perfection of cerebral action that these centres should be connected, and that the centre of in- tellectual action should be capable of exciting or of being excited by the centres of volition and sensation. This connection and mutual influence is effected through the innumerable fibres which pass from the one to the other. To determine the precise connection which exists between the mind and the brain is beyond the reach of our means of observation and ex- periment. All we are justified in affirming is that the mental acts are associated with this por- tion of the brain, which I would call the centre of intellectual actions; and that the integrity of this part is necessary to the perfect exer- cise of the mind ; that, in the language of Cu- vier, this centre is the sole receptacle in which the various sensations may be as it were con- summated, and where all sensations take a distinct form and leave lasting traces of their impression, serving as a seat to memory, a property by means of which the animal is fur- nished with materials for his judgment. The actions of the convoluted surface of the brain, and of the fibres connected with it, belong altogether to the class of mental nervous actions; that is, they either excite or are excited by mental change. The physical changes in these parts give rise to a corresponding manifestation of ideas, and every thought is accompanied by a change in this centre. Modifications in its nutrition, or interruptions to it, produce cor- responding effects on the mind. An increased activity of nutrient change causes a rapid de- velopementof ideas, which, being generally un- controllable by the will, and therefore undi- rected, assumes the form of raving or delirium. The shock of concussion so far checks the organic changes of the vesicular surface, and perhaps also of the fibrous matter, as to inter- rupt tor a time those conjoint actions of the mind and the brain which are necessary for perfect consciousness. The condensation of the substance of the hemispheres, which is produced by an apoplectic clot, or by the effusion of some other foreign matter, prevents a similar consent of action, and thus gives rise to the phenomena of coma, a state in which all mental nervous actions are destroyed or sus- pended, and which, if continued long enough, will annihilate the physical nervous actions likewise. It will be observed that, in this description, the workings of the mind are not viewed as mere functions of the brain. The term Mind expresses the mode of action of the Soul, an entity which both reason and revelation assure us is essentially different from the Body,* being- incorruptible and indestructible, in the sense in which we suppose that both corruption and destruction may affect material things. To * Ens incorporeal prosapicc, Prochaska.