MOTION. 464 Fig. 252 shows the simultaneous positions of both legs during a step, divided into four groups. The first group, 4 to 7, gives the different positions which the legs simultaneously assume white both are on the ground; the second group, 8 to II, shows the various jiositions of both legs at the time when the posterior leg is elevated from the ground, but behind the supported one; the third group, No. 12 to 14, shows the positions which the legs assume when the swinging leg overtakes the standing one; and the fourth group, 1 to 3, the positions during the time when the swinging leg is propelled in advance of the resting one. plane of motion, whilst it moves forwards with the trunk, from No. 4 to 18, the distance from the head of the femur to the foot must be con- stantly increasing. To accomplish this the mus- cles which extend the hip, knee, and ankle- joints are gradually contracted, and the length of the leg sufficiently increased by its extension to reach from No. 18 to the ball of the foot (fig. 251). In these movements the sole of the foot rotates on the ground, and (independently of the angle formed by the legs) increases the length of the step by the length of the foot from the heel to the ball; because, when the head of the femur arrives at No. \8, fig. 251, the line from the ankle-joint to the ball is perpendicular to the ground. At the moment that the head of the femur of the left leg arrives at a position vertical to the foot, as No. 4, fig. 251, the right leg is lifted from the ground,* and, from its oblique position and weight, swings forward like a pendulum, whose axis of motion is in the hip-joint, Nos. 19 to 28, fig.251, and having passed by the sup- porting leg it touches the ground, with the ankle-joint in advance of the head of the femur, No. 1, fig. 251. The heel is first placed upon the earth, and by degrees every part of the * Measure of the elevation of the heel and toes in walking, the distance passed through 30 metres. Num- ber of steps. Time. Elevation of the heel. Elevation of the point of the toe. Velocity. metre. metre. 41 17''.4 0.178 0.092 1.72 39 12''.7 0.173 0.115 2.36 sole, the hollow arch only excepted, is brough into contact with the ground, and the head of the femur is again over the ankle-joint, as before, No. 4, fig. 251. The motion of the left leg al- ternates with that of the right in the same manner.* In the first period of the movement the left leg is seen in the rear of the right leg, No. 8 to 11,fig. 252. Having overtaken the latter, No. 12 to 14, fig. 252, it advances before it and comes to the ground in sufficient time to receive the weight of the body as soon as the right leg ceases to act, No. 4, fig. 252, so that the instant the weight of the trunk is transferred to it from the right leg bend- ing slightly and returning to its former posi- tion, it acts like a spring, and prevents any sudden concussion arising in consequence of the translation of the burthen from one leg to the other. The weight of the trunk being thus propelled, supported, and transferred from one leg to the other alternately, a constant and uniform movement in a horizontal direction is maintained. The right and left leg having thus swung and supported the body alternately, and having been on the ground simultaneously a short, and separately a long, period, the ho- rizontal path of the centre of gravity, during these two movements, is equal to the length of a double step. In consequence of this inter- change of offices the supporting leg is active, whilst the swinging leg is comparatively pas- * The Webers compare the action of the foot to the rolling of a wheel, with this difference, that the ro- tation of the wheel is uninterrupted, whilst that of the foot is terminated and renewed at every step. In walking on the ball of the foot, or on the toes, the rotation is confined to the distance between the ball of the foot and the point of the toes.