197 ANIMAL LUMINOUSNESS.- sur I'usage dela bile, Paris, 1833. Kiernan, Phi- losophical Trans. 1833. Cruveilhier, Anatomie de- scriptive, Paris, 1834. Burdach, Physiologie ; translation by Jourdan, Paris, 1838. Morbid anatomy.—Fernelius, Medicina anatomia pathology.&c.Paris,1554. A'uifceZ.Diss.de hepatitide, Erford, 1718. Fischer, Reply to Kulbel in Halleri disp. patholog. vol. v. Kaltschmied, De vulnere hepatis curato cum disquisitione de lethalit. vul- nerum hepatis, Jena, 1735, et Haller, Disp. chi- rurg. vol. v. Wainwright, Anatomical treatise on the liver, with diseases, &c. Lond. 1737. Jacconi, De quibusdam hepatis, &c. affect. Bonon. 1740. Teichmeyer, De caletilis biliariis, Jena, 1742. Hal- ler, Disp. patholog. vol. iii. White, Essay on dis- eases of the bile, York, 1771. Lysons, Practical essays upon intermitting fevers, dropsies, diseases of the liver, &c. Bath, 1772. Crawford, On the nature, cause, and cure of a disease incident to the liver, &c. Lond. 1772. Thienillier, Ergo dubio hepatis in abscessu permittanda incidendi loci per- foratio, Paris, 1744. Haller, Disp. Chir. vol. iv. Coe, A treatise on biliary concretions, &c. J/ond. 1757. Conradi, Experimenta cum calc. vesic. fell, human. Jena, 1775. Haase, Reply to J. S. Lie- berkiihn, de abscessibus hepatis, Lips. 1776. Sehroeter, Commentatio de phthisi hepatica, Got- tingen, 1783. Mathews, Observations on hepatic diseases incidental to Europeans in the East Indies, Lond. 1783. Frank, De larvis morborum biliosis, Gottingen, 1784. Weissenborn, Von den Eiter- geschwuren der leber durch einen merkwurdigen Fall erlautet, Erfurt, 1786. Andree, On bilious dis- eases, &c. Lond. 17b8. Goldwitz, NeueVersuche ueber die pathologie der Galle, Bamberg, 1789. Leake, A practical essay on diseases of the viscera, Lond. 1792. Saunders, A treatise on the structure of the liver, bile, and biliary concretions, Lond. 1793. Soemmering, De concrementis biliariis cor- poris humani, Francfort, 1795. Baillie, Morbid anatomy of the human body, Lond. 1797. Gibson, A treatise on bilious diseases, indigestion, &c. Lond. 1799. Pou>el, Observations on the bile and its diseases, Lond. 1801. Scliworze, Diss, de sym- patic, inter cerebrum et bepate, Lips. 1811. Furre, Morbid anatomy of the liver, Lond. 1812. Portal, Observations sur la nature et le traitement des maladies du foie, Paris, 1813. Ballmgall, Pract. obs. on fever, dysentery, and liver complaints as they occur amongst European troops in India, Edinburg, 1813. Mahlendorf, De ictero, Berlin, 1818. Mills, Enquiry into the effects produced on the brain, lungs, &c. by diseases of the liver, Lond. 1819. Thilenius, Ueber Leberentzundung und ibre Behandlung, &c. Hufeland's Journal, vol. xviii. Ackermann, Von Entzundung der Leber und deren Endigung in Vereiterung, Ackermann's Bemerkungen, vol. vi. Vater, Reply to Schimmer, De calculi in vesicula fellea generatione ; in Haller Disp. Path. vol. vii. Betzold, De cholelitho ; in Haller Disp. Path. vol. iii. Haller, De calculis felleis, Opusc. Path. Mortjayni, De calculis felleis, in Opusc. Misc. Percival, On a new means of de- composing gall-stones. Beitrag, Zur Geschicte der Gallensteine vonEisfeld ; in Isenflamms und Rosen- mullers Beytrag, vol. i. Pemberton, A practical treatise on the diseases of the abdominal viscera, Lond. Chestons, Pathological enquiries; abscess in the liver. Pouteau, Des ulceres de la foie a la suite de blessures de la tete, OEuvres, vol. ii. Loffler, Ueber die Leberentzundung bei Schwangern und Wochnerinnen. Bichat, Anatomie patho- logique, par Beclard, Paris, 1825. Hope, Princi- ples and illustrations of morbid anatomy, &c. Lond. 1834. Mayo, Outlines of human pathology, 1836. Carswell, Pathological Anatomy. Cruveil- hier, Anatomie pathologique du corps humain."* ( W. J. Erasmus Wilson.) * [See also Dr. Bright's admirable paper on Abdominal Tumours and Intumescence, in Guy's Hosp. Reports, No. xi.—Kd.] LUMINOUSNESS, ANIMAL. (Phos- phorescence.) An evolution of light from the bodies of living animals, independent of the re- flection of incident light. The animals which possess the property of thus emitting light are almost entirely inverte- brate, and chiefly marine. We have accounts from several naturalists of certain fishes having been seen to give out light while in their native element, and some have conjectured,—but on insufficient grounds,—that all fishes do so. The turtle and a species of toad inhabiting Surinam have been reported to have the same property; and the eyes of some carnivorous mammals appear to emit flashes of light. But we find this function constantly and distinctly mani- fested only by certain mollusca, insects, crabs, annelida, acalephae, and zoophytes. These are the following:— Mollusca P/wlas dactylus Salpa zonaria telesii, c]-c. Pyrosoma atlanticum giganteum, c\c. Crustacea Cyclops brevicornis Gammarus pulex Cancer fulgens, fyc. Scyllarus ? Insecta Lampyris noctiluca splendidula italica ignita phosphorea nitidula lucida hemiptera japonica Elaler noctilucus ignitus phosphoreus lampadion retrospiciens lucidulus lucernula speculator janus pyrophanus luminosus lucens extinctus cucujus lucifer Bapestris ocellata Chiroscelis bifenestrata Sca?-ab(eus phosp/wricus Pausus spharocerus Fulgora laternaria* serrata * Doubts have been expressed by several observers with regard to the lurninousness of this insect. In travelling in the countries of South America where it occurs, they have never seen it shine ; but the testimony of other naturalists is so decided in favour of it being luminous, that we are constrained to suppose that the animal may give out light in certain seasons of the year and not in others. There can be no doubt, at least, that its congeners above- named are truly luminous.