ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. 124 although, as might be expected, the causes that produce these terrific affections have not been explained, yet it may be desirable to examine into the symptoms and some of the circum- stances that occasionally precede or accompany them. Spasm of the glottis is either idiopathic or symptomatic. The idiopathic occurs, as far as 1 know, only in children, as in the " spasmodic croup," or laryngismus stridulus, unless we also choose to include within this class the hysteric dyspnoea that occurs in young females. The symptomatic occurs as indicative of, or in connexion with, 1. The application of some deleterious sub- stance to the larynx, as carbonic acid, boiling- water, or steam. 2. The application of some irritating mate- rial, as a particle of salt. 3. The presence of a foreign body within the trachea or bronchial tubes. 4. The presence of a foreign body in the oesophagus. 5. The existence (occasionally) of an aneur- ism of the aorta. 6. The existence of any other disease within the larynx or trachea. Any of these latter may be present in the adult or the child indif- ferently. Few diseases have attracted more attention than the spasmodic croup of children ; few have been more accurately described as to symptoms, and in none is our pathological in- formation more deficient; a fact that may al- most be proved by the number of different names by which it has been designated. It is the asthma of infants of Millar; the cerebral croup of Pretty; the spasm of the glottis of Marsh ; the spasmodic croup of other writers ; and the laryngismus stridulus of Mason Good and Ley. It occurs in very young children, with a peculiar difficulty of breathing, attack- ing for the most part suddenly, accompanied by a crowing sound, and oftentimes with a sus- pension of respiration for several seconds. This difficulty of respiration varies in intensity from a single crow to a more prolonged paro- xysm threatening suffocation, and terminates when in recovery by a long deep-drawn respi- ration, with a peculiar stridulous noise; when in death, by such convulsive struggles as might lead, and indeed have led, to a belief that the cerebrum was engaged. Pallid and exhausted, the child falls lifeless upon the nurse's arm, and is then generally said to have died in a fit. In these cases there is no cough; no raucal sound of voice; no continued stridulous breathing, except an occasional mucous rattle heard only while the infant sleeps be con- sidered as such ; there is no fever ; and on ex- amination after death no trace of inflammation, nor indeed any deviation from the ordinary healthy appearance of the organ, can be disco- vered. Under these circumstances, patholo- gists had no method of explaining the pheno- mena but by spasm, an irregular and invo- luntary contraction of the muscles of the larynx closing up the rima glottidis to a greater or less extent, and in proportion to such closure in- terfering with and obstructing respiration. But what is the cause of this spasm ? Some have supposed it to have an intimate con- nexion with an hydrocephalic tendency, be- cause it has been sometimes seen in children with large heads and sluggish dispositions, and because signs of cerebral congestion have been discovered after death ; but I have seen the di- sease prove fatal to the liveliest and apparently most healthy children, and the congestion may just as well be the consequence as the cause of the closure of the glottis. Others again have referred it to the general constitutional irri- tation that proceeds from painful dentition, and doubtless cases have occurred in which the crowing respiration was relieved by successive scarifications of the gums, according as each tooth became prominent underneath; but this, although teaching an important practical lesson, leaves the pathological connexion between the facts in as much obscurity as ever. Accord- ing to others there is a constitutional tendency to this disease in some children, a fact which it must be conceded has been painfully exempli- fied in more families than one ; but this here- ditary disposition to disease, although abun- dantly obvious, is too imperfectly understood to be discussed with any thing approaching to pathological accuracy. Lastly, improper or un- wholesome food, indifferent clothing, a close and tainted atmosphere, and exposure to vicis- situdes of climate, have been regarded as in- fluential exciting causes, and change of circum- stances in these respects has often produced an almost magical amendment in the condition of our little patients ; but still we are at a loss to discover the immediate modus operandi of these pernicious influences, or why they should be determined to the larynx in the form of an in- voluntary spastic contraction of its muscles. Other causes have been assigned for the pro- duction of this disease, some of which are eminently deserving of attention; at the same time it may be observed that its being attri- buted to such a number of influences shews that its real exciting cause is probably still unknown. For instance, either this disease or an affection bearing a strong resemblance to it, has been described by Dr. Kopp, and after- wards by Dr. Hirsch of Konigsberg, under the name of thymic asthma, and by them attri- buted to an hypertrophied condition of the thymus gland, which by its weight and volume presses on the heart, the lungs, the large arte- rial and venous vessels, and prevents the free exercise of their functions. Dr. Montgomery has published an interesting paper on this sub- ject, in which he attributes the sudden death to an enlargement of this gland, whether that arises from hypertrophy of its substance or an alteration of its structure from scrofula or other disease; and explains how agitation or excite- ment may suddenly distend and increase the size of the organ in such a manner as to affect materially the condition of the surrounding parts. Again, in the work by Dr. Ley already referred to, a different explanation has been offered. Apparently relying on the experi-