LACRYMAL ORGANS. 90 and another rather within the lower eyelid. See figs. 12 & 14. Fig. 14. A left eye with the eyelids cut in the middle, and the outer halves everted to show the orifices of the ducts of the lacrymal gland, into which hairs are inserted. The preceding description of the lacrymal gland and its ducts shows that the latter and the lower mass at least of the former may be readily wounded along with the upper eyelid, and that in Crampton's operation for entro- pium, the lower mass of the gland, together with some of the lacrymal ducts, must neces- sarily be wounded, if the eyelid be cut through near the outer angle and to any height. In cases in which I have performed the operation, however, I have not observed any lacrymal fistula or other bad consequence follow. Tears.—Lacryma, Fr. Les larmes; Ital. Le lagrime; Germ. Die Thrdnen. The lacry- mal secretion like the salivary appears con- stantly to flow, though in no greater quantity than is sufficient to moisten the surfaces of the conjunctiva. The derivative lacrymal organs are in this case equal to the removal of it; but when the tears are poured out in unusual quantity, as they are, like the salivary or uri- nary secretion as well as that of the skin, in certain affections of the mind, they run over the margin of the lower eyelids and drop down the cheeks. According to Fourcroy and Vauquelin there remains after evaporating the tears, about one per cent, solid substance, which consists chiefly of common salt and a yellow extractive matter perfectly soluble in water. Before drying, this appears quite similar to mucus. 2. Derivative lacrymal organs. Previously to describing the passages by which the tears are drawn off into the nose, it will be advantageous to take a glance at the osseous groove and canal in which the prin- cipal part of those passages is lodged. Osseous groove for the lodgement of the lacrymal sac. The lacrymal groove, sulcus la- crymalis, is situated at the fore part of the inner wall of the orbit. It is directed from above downwards, extending from the junc- tion of the frontal bone with the nasal process of the superior maxillary and with the lacrymal bone, on the one hand, and to the inner and lower angle of the margin of the orbit on the other. Here it runs into the osseous canal for the nasal duct. The lacrymal groove is pretty deeply scooped out, and is about eight-tenths of an inch long and five-twentieths broad. The outer aspect of the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone is divided by an as- cending ridge, the continuation of that forming the lower margin of the orbit, into two sur- faces. The posterior surface, which is the narrower, forms the anterior half of the lacry- mal groove. The posterior half of the groove is formed by that narrow grooved part of the orbital surface of the lacrymal bone in front of its vertical crest. The line of junction (shin- dylesis) between the posterior margin of the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone and the anterior margin of the lacrymal runs down longitudinally in the bottom of the groove. The anterior margin of the lacrymal groove formed by the ascending ridge subdividing the outer surface of the nasal process of the supe- rior maxillary bone, is thick and rounded. The posterior inargin, formed by the crest which subdivides vertically the orbital surface of the lacrymal bone, is thin and sharp. Inferiorly the crest of the lacrymal bone forms a small curved prolongation directed for- wards and outwards, which serves to form the commencement of the posterior wall of the osseous canal for the nasal duct. The process, which is called hamulus ossis lacrymalis, arti- culates with the orbital plate of the superior maxillary.* The osseous canal for the nasal duct.—The osseous nasal canal, about half an inch in length, extends from the lower extremity of the lacrymal groove to the lowest meatus of the nose, at the anterior part of which it opens. Its orifice is overhung by the anterior extremity of the lowest spongy bone. The osseous nasal canal is directed a little obliquely from before backwards* and from within outwards. It is somewhat narrower in the middle than at either extremity. It is compressed from within out- wards, hence a horizontal section is rather elliptical than circular. The anterior and outer walls of the osseous canal are formed by a groove inclined down- wards and backwards on the inner surface of the body of the superior maxillary bone, the continuation of that on the nasal process which contributes to form the lacrymal groove. The posterior wall of the canal is in great part formed above by the hamular process of the lacrymal bone, where it articulates with the orbital plate of the superior maxillary. The lowest part of the posterior wall is formed by the meeting together of the lacrymal process * In man the lacrymal bone does not always form a single piece. " In a great number of cases," says M. Rousseau, " the lacrymal bone is found divided into two unequal parts, even in aged sub- jects. The larger contributes to form the inner wall of the orbit, the smaller is situated below and outside the preceding on the floor of the orbit; its exposed surface does not measure more than two millimetres in extent, but it dips under the vertical crest of the first portion, and contributes to form the lacrymal canal." See " Description d'un nouvel os de la face chez l'homme," in An- nales des Sciences Naturelles. Paris, 1829.