610 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Comparative Anatomy.) each other by sensitive columns. A tract has also been recently described by Mr. Newport,* passing along the dorsal surface of these co- lumns, and giving off lateral nervous branches ; this has been regarded as a molar tract. Mi- nute anatomy has also unfolded to us what may be considered as the analogue of the re- spiratory system of nerves, and a par vagum. These points we will now notice in detail, commencing with the Hemipterous Insecta, in which the nervous system is least perfectly or- ganized. In the perfect state of the Ranatra linearis the nervous system consists (besides the supra-oesophageal nervous accumulation) of a small round ganglion (Jig. 345, a), situated below the oesophagus at its very commence- Fig. 345. Ventral nervous cord of Ranatra linearis (perfect state), magnified to about twice the natural size. a, small round sub-cesophageal ganglion, b, large quadrilobate tboracic ganglion, c, c, fila- ments passing down the lengthened abdomen. ment; from this two longitudinal commissures pass to join with a large quadrilobate ganglion (b), situated at the further extremity of the thorax. From each side of this ganglion there are given off three nervous threads, passing superiorly, transversely, and inferiorly; and from the lower part of the ganglion, which is slightly fusiform in shape, there are given off two bundlesof most minute and delicate nervous fila- ments (cr), each containing five branches, which pass downwards into the lengthened abdomen to supply the parts situated in that region; there is also a supra-cesophaseal nervous accumulation. In the Orthoptera the nervous system presents a certain degree of concentration worthy of no- tice. In the perfect state of a species of Acrydium there are two comparatively large thoracic ganglia, very near each other, and connected, as usual, by commissures; in the abdomen there are five ganglia of much smaller size, connected in a similar manner, and giving off lateral filaments: the first and second of these abdominal ganglia are some distance from each other; the three last are much more closely approximated, and are rather larger and more distinct; the cerebral ganglion is of small size. Proceeding with the Coleoptera, we find that many of the Lamellicornes, in their perfect state, have a singular and rather unusual mode of developement of their nervous system; the ganglia are but few in number, closely approxi- mated, and the two posterior ones give off nume- rous radiating filaments: this is the case with the larva of the Oryctes nasicornis, according to a dissection by Swammerdam.* In the Geotrupes stercorarius (Jig. 346), perfect Fig. 346. Ventral nervous cord of Geotrupes stercorarius (per- fect state), magnified to about three times the natural size. a, bilobate thoracic ganglia, b, abdominal gan- glia, c, c, filaments to the intestine, d, intestine. state, another of the Lamellicornes, there are found in the thorax two distinctly bilobate ganglia (a), connected by longitudinal com- missures, and one smaller ganglion at the junc- tion of the thorax with the abdomen, immedi- ately contiguous with which are one large and three smaller ganglia, very closely approxi- mated to each other (/>); the last was the longest, of rather a fusiform shape, and gave off radiating nervous filaments, particularly two long branches to the abdominal viscera and adjacent parts (c, c). The more usual form, however, of the nervous system, is such as will be described in the subsequent species. * Philosophical Transactions for 1832 and 1834. * Biblia Naturae.