NERVOUS CENTRES. (Their Microscopical Anatomy.) 709 freely intermingle. The anterior and posterior pyramids and the restiform bodies consist, at least in great part, of longitudinal fibres, but the remainder of the fibrous matter appears to be made up of transverse or oblique fibres. Most of these are doubtless connected with the roots of the many nerves which arise from the me- dulla oblongata. Stilling refers to special ac- cumulations of vesicular matter connected with the roots of each nerve, and which probably form its proper origin. These contain large vesicles. It is impossible to give an exact in- terpretation to all the parts which are seen by his method of examination, imperfectly defined as they are from the use of such low mag- nifying powers. It would be waste of time and space to do more than refer to the repre- sentation given by Stilling (fig. 397) of the mm-mm Transverse section of the medulla oblongata through the lower third of the olivary bodies. ( From Stilling.) Magnified ten diameters. , anterior fissure ; b, fissure of the calamus scriptorius; c, raphe; d, anterior columns ; e, lateral columns ; f, posterior columns ; g, nucleus of the hypoglossal nerve, containing large vesicles ; /(, nucleus ot the vagus nerve ; i, i, gelatinous substance ; k, h, roots of the vagus nerve ; I, roots of the hypoglossal, or ninth nerve ; rn, a thick bundle of white longitudinal fibres connected with the root of the vagus ; n, soft column ( Zartstrang, Stilling) ; o, wedge-like column ( Keelstrang, Stilling); p, trans- verse and arciforin fibres ■, q, nucleus of the olivary bodies ; r, the large nucleus of the pyramid ; s,s,s, the small nuclei of the pyramid ; u, a mass of grey substance near the nucleus of the olives (Oliven-Nebenhern); u,q,r, are traversed by numerous fibres passing in a transverse semicircular direction ; v, w, arciform fibres ; x, grey matter near the root of the vagus. structure, as viewed by a magnifying power of ten diameters. Nothing can be more true to nature, so far as it goes, but its correct explana- tion must be sought for by diligent investigation with high powers. Numerous bloodvessels pe- netrate the central matter of the medulla, and no doubt many of the lines, which Stilling supposes to represent fibres, are in reality ves- sels passing to the grey matter. The mesocephale has very much the same kind of structure as the medulla oblongata; trans- verse fibres (those of the pons) at its anterior part, longitudinal ones just behind these (pyra- mids), with vesicular matter freely intermixed. Its posterior part is the same in structure as the optic thalamus, and consists of numerous fibres with an abundant quantity of grey matter. The inferior layer of the crus cerebri is purely fibrous; its superior portion is identical in structure with the optic thalamus, and the locus niger contains large caudate nerve-vesicles, with a considerable quantity of pigment con- tained in them. Microscopic investigation has as yet thrown no light on the direction and connections of the fibres of the cerebrum or cerebellum. What is known upon these points is derived from coarse dissection. The tubular fibres of which the white matter is composed, appear to be dis- posed on different planes, and perhaps inter- lace with each other, so as to render it difficult to isolate any plane to any great extent. This arrangement is more obvious in the cerebellum than in the cerebrum. The grey matter of both these segments contains the ordinary ele- ments, caudate and spherical vesicles; but in the cerebellum those of the latter variety are much larger and more distinct than those which