500 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. their course have not (in man) any proper wall, but are bounded only by the edges of the scales between which they pass, it is very probable that the deeper and softer lamina? of epidermic particles may not merely be moistened by the secretion of the ducts, but, under favourable circumstances, may borrow extraneous matters from them, and thus become a part of the ab- sorbing medium. In reference to the question of absorption by the skin, it is interesting to notice the modification of this structure in those lower animals in which this function is mani- fested in much greater activity than in man. A better example cannot, perhaps, be selected for this purpose than that of the frog. Its epi- dermis consists of a single layer of scales, and in consequence they do not overlap, but join edge to edge. These scales are not reduced to mere membrane, but always contain a con- siderable quantity of fluid in their interior. The sweat-pores open here and there in the interstices between three scales, and have true walls, formed out of a pair of modified epi- dermic particles, adapted to one another, and elongated into the subcutaneous texture. They thus bear a very close resemblance to the stomata of leaves. I lately discovered this singular arrangement in the cast-off cuticle of the animal. It seems undeniable, that, here, absorption is effected by the whole series of epidermic scales, as well as by the pores. But the most remarkable, and at the same time the most recondite form, under which this func- tion is exhibited in the mucous system, is that met with in the alimentary tract. Here, indeed, water and aqueous solutions are imbibed, with great rapidity, into the vascular plexuses of the blood and lacteal systems, as the united testi- mony of many able experimenters abundantly shews. But from this merely physical process of imbibition is to be distinguished the more mysterious and. elective function of chylous absorption, which is conducted by the lacteals alone, and is consequently limited to the region supplied with that system of vessels. For an account of the present state of knowledge on the highly important subject of the intimate nature of this function, the reader is referred to Absorption and Lymphatic System, in which he will find the chief of the conflicting statements and opinions of physiologists de- tailed and discussed. It has already been ex- plained m the present article, that the latest observations on the structure of the villi, and apparently the most exact ones, because con- ducted with the most improved lenses, and accordant with other collateral discoveries, make it highly probable that the opinion assigning open mouths to the lacteals is erroneous In the description of those orifices, furnished by Treviranus, we may plainly discern his partial acquaintance with characters which we now know to be those of the prismatic epithelium investing the villi; and the less precise asser- tions of the same kind by several other excel- lent anatomists, we may now, perhaps, fairly consider to have been founded on deceptive appearances which, in their day, did not admit of accurate interpretation. If any such orifices exist, their minuteness must be extreme, and they must He in the intervals between the prisms of epithelium. But even such attenu- ated pores, the best microscopes fail to detect, and at least it may with certainty be affirmed, that none large enough to admit a chyle-globule exist. The structure of the villi, no less than our knowledge of the absorbent function in general, seems to indicate that the chyle, when first taken up, is strictly a fluid, and only ac- quires its solid particles after it has entered the lacteal plexus. Of the separation of material from the body. —This function appears to be carried on in every part of the mucous system. One great division, that of the glands, is specially des- tined to it, as are likewise those portions of the compound mucous membranes, which have been already described as coming properly under the designation of glands. If, however, the essential nature of the function of secretion be adequately considered, it will scarcely be doubted that even the simplest parts of the mucous membranes, and the whole cutaneous surface (as distinguished from its sebaceous and perspiratory glandular offsets) share largely in this important office. It is true that in the skin this function holds a subordinate place to that of defence and protection, but its existence is only an example of what an attentive survey of nature everywhere discovers; the accom- plishment of various ends by means of the same simple instruments. The notion that a secreted product must be fluid, is one that has arisen out of a partial and imperfect insight into the nature of the secreting process. Those matters which are eliminated in the largest quantities and by the largest glands are for the most part so, in the shape under which they meet the eye, that is, after their separation from the organ in which thev are secerned. But in the case of the lungs the secretion is gaseous as well as fluid, and in numerous instances, which have been recently brought to light, chiefly by the labours of Henle, it is found, when minutely scruti- nized, to consist of organic forms entitled to be styled solid. The problem which physiologists have now to resolve, is how far these organic forms, which are more or less altered epithelial par- ticles, are necessarily concerned in the per- formance of the function, for epithelium is all but universal in the mucous system. It would be foreign to the province of this article to enter at length on the general question of secre- tion, and I shall confine myself to a few re- marks tending to show in what direction recent researches point.* When the secretion of a sebaceous follicle of the skin is minutely examined, it is found to consist entirely of epithelial particles contain- ing the sebaceous matter, and more or less broken and compressed. These are similar to the particles lining the follicle, and are mani- * Purkinje, Isis 1838, No. 7. Schwann, Froriep's notiz. Feb. 1838. Henle, Miiller's Archiv. 1838, p. 104-8, 1839, p. 45; also Miiller's Phys. by Baly, 2nd edit., vol. i., p. 503-4.