138 MUSCLES OF THE LEG. anteriorly, with the fibula and interosseous ligament posteriorly, with the peroneus brevis on the fibular side, and with the extensor com- munis on the tibial side. Its tendon passes in the same sheath with that of the common ex- tensor, under the annular ligament. A very slight effort of the extensor com- munis and extensor proprius pollicis extends the digital phalanges, and, if their action be continued, they will be made to bend the foot upon the leg. This they are enabled to do by the manner in which their line of direction is altered by the annular ligament of the ankle- joint, as it gives them all the mechanical ad- vantage of a pulley. The tibialis anticus and the peroneus tertius are the direct flexors of the foot on the leg, and if either act separately, it will give a slight inclination towards the cor- responding side, and thus the last-named muscle forms one of that important set whose action is, by elevating the outer side of the foot, to dirow the weight of the body on the inner side.* In the erect position these muscles take their fixed point below, and, by drawing on the bones of the leg, keep them perpen- dicular on the foot. The external muscles of the leg are two, the peroneus longus and brevis. They occupy the whole length of the outer side of the fibula, and are placed between the extensors and flexors. 1. Peroneus longus is a long powerful muscle, arising from a small portion of the fibular side of the head of the tibia, from the upper third of the outer side of the fibula, and from the fascia of the leg and its intermuscular pro- cesses. Proceeding obliquely downwards, the fibres are attached to a strong tendon, which passes, in contact with the peroneus brevis, along a groove at the back of the outer mal- leolus, enclosed in a synovial sheath. The tendon then passes through a deep sulcus in the cuboid bone, behind the base of the meta- tarsal bone of the little toe, winding obliquely across the sole of the foot, covered by the muscles of this part, till it is inserted into the internal cuneiform bone and base of the meta- tarsal bone of the great toe. In the tendon opposite the cuboid bone, is usually found a sesamoid bone. A bursal sheath encloses it in its passage across the foot. The action of this important muscle is to assist in extending the foot upon the leg, but principally to elevate the outer side of the foot, and thus regulate the bearing of the leg so as to throw the prin- cipal part of the weight upon the great toe.f This muscle is in contact on its outer side with the fascia of the leg. Indeed this apo- neurosis almost invests it, dipping between it and the flexor behind and extensors before. The peroneus is in contact with the fibula on its inner side above, lower down it rests upon the peroneus brevis. When passing across the foot it lies close to the bones, and conse- quently is covered by all the muscles of the sole. 2. Peroneus brevis is situated at the outer * For further observations upon the action of the peronei muscles, sec article Foot, MUSCLES OF. f See also Quain's Manual of Anatomy. side of the leg, but lower down as to its at- tachments than the preceding muscle. It arises fleshy from the lower half of the outer side of the fibula to near the outer malleolus. It sends oft'a roundish strong tendon, which passes in the same groove behind the outer malleo- lus, and in the same synovial sheath as the pre- ceding muscle, but after passing the malleolus it has a sheath proper to itself. It is inserted into the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Connected on its outer side to the peroneus longus, on the inner side to the fibula, anteriorly to the common extensor and pero- neus tertius, and posteriorly to the flexor longus pollicis. The action of these two muscles is peculiar. By the change in their direction, after turning behind the outer ankle, they are enabled to draw the foot back, and so extend it on the leg. The penoneus tertius is on the contrary a flexor; it lies before the fibula, and combines in this action with the tibialis anticus to assist the flexor. When, however, the three peronei act together, and without the other flexors, their combined action is to evert the sole of the foot, and thus counterbalance the effect of the feeble- ness of the outer side of the foot by trans- ferring the superincumbent weight to the inner side. This action is particularly exemplified in skaiting, but it is essential to every move- ment of ordinary progression. (See article Foot, Muscles of.) When the foot is the fixed point, the peronei act by keeping the fibula and the whole leg steady, and thus, as in the act of standing on one foot, counter- acting the tendency of the body to fall in- wards. The posterior region of the leg comprises seven muscles, six of which are acting on the foot and toes, and one is proper to the knee- joint. We shall examine them as they are met with in dissection, and shall therefore describe them as forming two layers, superficial and deep. The first contains three muscles: 1. gas- trocnemius; 2. soleus ; 3. plantaris. 1. Gastrocnemius.—This is situated imme- diately under the aponeurosis, and is a power- ful muscle, broad and flat anteriorly, and con- vex posteriorly, and forming the greater part of what is caHed the calf. It arises by two distinct heads from the back and upper part of the two condyles of the femur, of which the inner is the longer, and somewhat larger. These heads have between them a broad sulcus, which forms the lower part of the pop- liteal space. They unite a little below the knee-joint, in a middle tendinous line, and below the middle of the tibia send off a flat tendon which unites with the tendon of the soleus, a little above the ankle. The posterior surface is covered by the fascia of the leg ; anteriorly it rests upon the popli- teus, soleus, and plantaris, and popliteal vessels. When its heads pass over the con- dyles of the femur, they are guarded by synovial bursa?. 2. Soleus.— This is the second portion of that great muscle of the leg which has been