320 MARSUPIALIA. tion, &c. This theory, however, was aban- doned, or at least considerably modified after the publication of Dr. Barton's letters relative to the breeding of the Opossum. The product of marsupial generation is then stated by M. Geoffrey to quit the uterus in the condition of a gelatinous ovulum, comparable to a Medusa,and to become organically connected with the nipple by continuity of vessels. He supposed, there- fore, that a flow of blood followed the detach- ment of the mammary foetus from the nipple,* and even speculates upon the signification of the thyroid gland, on the strength of this hypo- thetical confluence of the maternal and foetal vascular systems in the marsupial tribe.f In another essay M. Geoffroy abandons this opinion, it having been proved by repeated observation that the adhesion of the foetus to the nipple is by simple contact merely;X and finally, he falls into the opposite extreme, and from some appearances of an urachus which were pointed out to him in a very small fcetus of an American Opossum, he descr.bes them as vestiges of a placental organization. Mr. Morgan,§ in his elaborate and excellent Memoirs on the Structure and Development of the Mammary Organs of the Kangaroo, bears testimony to the simply mechanical mode of attachment between the mammary foetus and the nipple in the Kangaroo, and was the first to show that the young animal, in its blind and naked condition, prior to the act of volun- tary detachment,—the birth ' a la maniere des Marsupiaux,' as it is called by M. Geoffroy,— would bear a separation from the nipple for two hours, and voluntarily regain its hold. The mammary fcetus of the Kangaroo on which Mr. Morgan experimented was nearly the size of a fully grown Norway rat. Mr. Collie, surgeon R.N. in a letter addressed from New South Wales,and published in the Zoological Journal, (No. xviii. p. 239,) obtained the same result in detaching from the nipple of a smaller species of Kangaroo (Macropits Brunii) a mammary fcetus, not two inches in length : he says, " I gently pressed with the tip of my finger the head of the little one away from the teat of which it had hold, and continuing press- ing a little more strongly for the space of a minute altogether, when the teat which had been stretched to more than an inch came out of the young one's mouth, and showed a small circular enlargement at its tip, well adapting it for being retained by the mouth of the sucker." * Geoffroy St. Hilaire, in detailing some observa- tions on a Kangaroo in the ' Annales des Sciences,' observes, " car le sang apercu a la litiere est un indice qu'a ce moment le lcetus s'est detache de la tetine el qu'il est ne definitivement a la maniere des marsupiaux." Vol. ix. p. 342, 1827. t " Des vaisseaux nourriciers se repandroient-ils des parties du pharynx le long et entre les lames de la trachee artere pour en*rcr le coeur, et (conjecture de M. Serres) le gland thyroide seroit-il le point de leur reunion?" Geoff. St. Hilaire, Memoires du Museum, torn. xix. p. 40b', 1822. t Art. Marsupiaux, Diet, des Sciences Nat. torn, xix. 1823. § Transactions of the Linnaean Society, vol. xvi. pp. 61, 455. —" An hour afterwards the young was ob- served still unattached, but in about two hours it had hold of the teat, and was actively em- ployed sucking." Dr. Barton's very interesting observations on the American Opossum are as follows :—" Tlie female Didelphis Woupink sometimes produces sixteen young ones at a birth. I have actually seen this number attached to the teats, but never a greater number. When they are first excluded from the uterus, they are not only very small but very obscurely shaped. The place of the future eyes is merely marked by two pale bluish specks; we see no ears; in short the animal is a mere mis-shaped embryon. Its mouth, which is afterwards to become very large, is at first a minute hole, nearly of a trian- gular form, and just of a sufficient size to receive the teat, to which the little creature adheres so firmly, that, it is scarcely matter of surprise that Beverly* and other writers have asserted that the young grow fast to the teats. " It is not true that the young cannot be detached from the mother without the loss of blood ; I can assert the contrary from many ex- periments made upon embryons weighing nine grains and upwards. I have fully satisfied myself as to all the various circumstances, both in the structure and in the exertions of the minute animal, which enable it, while yet a mere speck of living matter, to cling so firmly to the fountain of its support. " The wonderful little Didelphis is by no means the inanimate or the passive being some physiologists and naturalists have repre- sented it.f " The toes of the fore-feet of the new born embryon opossum are furnished with sharp and hard nails or claws, but this is not the case with the hind-feet. The latter are for some weeks of little use to the animal; but by means of the former it is enabled to cling most firmly to the teat, and especially to the hair in the marsupium immediately around the teat. " An opossum-embryon,orfoetus, which weighed sixty-seven grains, lived upwards of thirty hours after I had detached it from the teat. Another which weighed 116 lived thirty- eight hours, at which time I killed it by putting it in spirits. " Superfoetation (I should perhaps in strict propriety say uterine superfoetation) is wholly incompatible with the established laws of the economy of the Didelphis. But Nature, always provident, wastes no time. While, therefore, the first litter of young opossums are fast ap- proaching to their adult state, the mother ac- cepts the ardour of the male; she is impreg- nated ; and after a gestation which is not, I think, remarkably short, if we consider the small size of the embryons when they are ex- cluded from the uterus, the marsupium is des- tined to perform the office of a second, I was going to say a more important, uterus ; just at the time when the first litter have attained such a size that they are no longer (one or two of * History of Virginia, p. 136, 1722. t Pennant, Arctic Zool. i, p. 84.