308 MARSUPIALIA. (1/) alone has a separate origin. The common carotid in the Kangaroo gives off the thyroid artery, and afterwards divides opposite the transverse process of the atlas into the external and internal carotids. The internal carotid describes a sharp curve at its origin, and passes along the groove between the occipital condyle and the exoccipital process to the foramen ca- roticum. The vertebral arteries are given off by the subclavians, and pass to the skull, as usual, through the vertebral foramina of the cervical transverse processes. They unite be- neath the medulla oblongata to form the basilar artery, which sends off at right angles to the cerebellum two branches as large as itself: it divides opposite the anterior margin of the pons Varolii, and the diverging branches are connected by two straight transverse canals, before they anastomose with the internal caro- tids to form the circle of Willis. No pecu- liarly marsupial condition occurs in the distri- bution of the other arteries of the head, or those of the neck, the chest, and anterior ex- tremities; but I may observe that in the Koala, Wombat, Kangaroos, Potoroos, most Phalan- gers, (Find. Cookii is an exception,) most Pe- taurists, (Pet. Sciureus is an exception,) the Opossums, Bandicoots, and Phascogales, the brachial artery perforates the internal condyle of the humerus; it passes over that condyle, impressing it with a more or less deep groove in the Dasyures and Thylacine. In the abdomen, the primary branches of the aorta are sent off in the same order as in most of the ordinary Mammalia, with the ex- ception of the constant absence of an inferior mesenteric artery. This modification probably relates to the simplicity of the mesenteric at- tachment of the intestines above described. A still more marked example of the oviparous affinities of the Marsupialia, as exemplified in the arterial system, occurs in the mode of origin of the great arteries of the posterior extremities. In Man and the ordinary Mam- malia these are derived, as is well known, from a single trunk on each side—the common iliac artery; in Birds from two primary branches of the aorta, one corresponding' with the external iliac and femoral, the other with the internal iliac and ischiadic arteries. In the Kangaroo and Phalangista vulpina the aorta gives off, opposite the interspace of the two last lumbar vertebrae, the iliac arteries ; but these are after- wards resolved into the ordinary branches of the external iliac of the placental Mammalia, with the addition of the ilio-lumbar artery. The trunk of the aorta, much diminished in size, maintains its usual course for a very short distance, and then gives off the two internal iliacs, and is continued as the ' arteria sacra media' to the tail. The transitional cha- racter of this part of the marsupial sangui- ferous system between the oviparous and pla- cental types, is manifested in the large size of the external iliacs as compared with the internal iliacs, their greater share in the supply of blood to the hinder extremities, and the brevity of the aortic trunk between their origins. In most Birds the femorals or external iliacs are smaller than the ischiadic or internal iliac arteries subsequently given off. At the upper part of the thigh the femoral artery divides into two equal branches; the one which corresponds with the radial artery in the fore leg (m, fig.134 ) principally supplies the foot in the Kangaroos; it passes along the back of the radius, between the gastrocnemius internus and tibialis posticus, and divides a little above the internal malleolus. The smaller division (I, Jig. 134), which follows the ordinary course of the femoral along the popli- teal space, is lost upon the inner and posterior part of the tarsus; the larger branch winds over the malleolus to the front of the tarsus, sends off the anterior tarsal artery, and is then continued along the inner and afterwards the under part of the metatarsal bone of the long and strong toe. In jig.\34, a is the trunk of the ceeliac artery; b that of the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries; c is the capsular artery of the left side; d, d, the renal arteries ; e the spermatic artery, of which the left branch is shown continued to the left ovarium </, which, with the uterus r, vagina s, and bladder t, is drawn to therightside; the spermatic arteries arise close together but separately in the male Vulpine Phalanger: /is the external iliac, corresponding with the com- mon iliac in placental Mammalia, and with the femoral artery in Birds, (see Vol. i. p. 337, jigs. 170, 23 ;) below these are given off h, the arteries corresponding with the ischiadic ar- teries in Birds, (Voh i. p. 337, fig. 170, 26,) and with the internal iliacs in Mammalia; [they are represented of too small a size in the cut]; k is the femoral artery; I the ex- ternal, m the internal branch; i is the sacro- median or caudal artery, which is protected in its course along the tail by the haem- apophysial or chevron-like processes of the caudal vertebra;. This artery of course cor- responds in size with the developement and functional importance of the tail, and must be rudimentary in the tail-less or nearly tail-less Marsupials, such as the Chceropus, Koala, and Wombat. With respect to the veins of the Marsupials it may here be noticed that the iliac veins combine to form the trunk of the abdominal cava, as in the rest of the Mammalia, without conveying any part of their blood to the kid- neys : in the Kangaroo they both pass on the central aspect of the iliac arteries. The renal veins, in like manner, directly communicate with the abdominal cava, and do not contri- bute any share in the formation of the portal vein. This great secerning trunk of the hepatic organ presents the strictly mammalian condi- tion, being formed by the reunion of the gastric, intestinal, pancreatic, and splenic veins. It is in the chest that we first meet witli decided traces of the oviparous type of structure in the venous system of the Marsupialia. The primi- tive veins of the animal system of organs, commonly called ' azygos,' retain their original separation and symmetry; the left 'azygos' bends over the left bronchus to communicate with the left anterior cava, and the right azy- gos over the right bronchus to join the right anterior cava. The left anterior cava commonly