M ARSU PIALIA. 262 into a thumb, but without a claw. The hinder hand is associated in almost all the species with a scaly prehensile tail. In some of the smaller Opossums the sub- abdominal tegumentary folds are rudimental, or merely serve to conceal the nipples, and are not developed into a pouch : the young in these species adhere to the mother by entwining their little prehensile tails around her's; and they cling to the fur of the back, hence the term dor*igera applied to one of these Opos- sums.* Tribe III. CARP OP HAG A. Stomach simple ; coecum very long. In this family the teeth, especially those at the anterior part of the mouth, present consider- able deviations from the previously described formulae ; the chief of which is a predomi- nating size of the two anterior incisors, both in the upper and lower jaws. Hitherto we have seen that the dentition in every marsupial genus has participated more or less in a carni- vorous character ; henceforth it will manifest a tendency to the Rodent type. Genus PHALANGISTA. The Phalangers, so called from the phalanges of the second and third digits of the hinder ex- tremity being inclosed in a common sheath of integument, have the innermost digit modi- lied to answer the purposes of a thumb; and this hinder hand being associated in many of the species with a prehensile tail, they evidently, of all Frugivora, come nearest to the arboreal species of the preceding section. In a system framed on locomotive characters they would rank in the same section with the Opossums. We shall see, however, that they differ from those Entomophagous Marsupials in the con- dition of the intestinal tube. Let us examine to what extent the dental characters deviate from those of the Opossums. Fig. 86. Phalangista Coohii. In the skull of a Phalangista Cookii, of which the dental formula is accurately given in Jig. 86, there are both in the upper and lower jaws four true molars on each side, each * Few facts would be more interesting in the present branch of zoology than the condition of the new-born young, and their degree and mode of uterine development in these Opossums. Since the marsupial bones serve, not as is usually de- scribed to support a pouch, but to aid in the func- tion of the mammary glands and testes, they of course are present in the skeleton of these small pouchless Opossums as in the more typical Mar- supials. beset with four three-sided pyramidal sharp- pointed cusps; thus these essential and most constant teeth correspond in number with those of the Opossum : but in the upper jaw they differ in the absence of the internal cusp, which gives a triangular figure to the grinding surface of the molars in the Opossum; and the an- terior single cusp is wanting in the true molars of the lower jaw. Anterior to the upper grinders in this Phalanger there are two pre- molars of similar shape and proportions to those in the Opossum ; then a third premolar, too small to be of much functional importance, separated also, like the corresponding anterior premolar in the Opossum, by a short interval from those behind. The canine tooth but slightly exceeds in size the above false molar, and consequently here occurs the first great difference between the Phalangers and Opossums; it is, however, but a difference in degree of development; and in the Ursine and other Phalangers, as well as in the Petaurists, the corresponding tooth pre- sents more of the proportions and form of a true canine. The incisors, which we have seen to be most variable in number in the Carnivorous section, are here three instead of five on each side of the upper jaw, but their size, especially that of the first, compensates for their fewness. In the lower jaw there is the same number of molars and functional premolars as in the Opossums; the two very minute and function- less molars, which form part of the same con- tinuous series, represent the small premolar and canine of the upper jaw; and anterior to these there is one very small and one very large and procumbent incisor on each side. Now if this comparison be just and natural, the difference in the number of teeth between the Phalanger and the Opossum will resolve itself into the former being minus certain incisors in the up- per and lower jaws: in the latter, the great development of the middle incisors seems to produce an atrophy of all the rest. The interspace between the functionally de- veloped incisors and molars in both jaws always contains in the Phalangers teeth of small size and little functional importance, and variable not only in their proportions but their number. The constant teeth in the Phalangers are the 1 - true molars, and the -—- incisors. 4—4 1—1 Fig. 87. Phalangista Vidpina.