(Comparative Anatomy.) 623 NERVOUS SYSTEM. preceding classes) analogous to the optic tha- lami of the brain of man : between them is the canal leading to the infundibulum. 3d. The cerebellum, or third cerebral mass, (fig. 355, r), is particularly well developed, exhibiting an amazingly increased degree of organization when compared with the preced- ing classes, and bearing great analogy to the cerebellum of the higher animals. In the be- fore-mentioned species it consists of a more or less rounded median lobe, with very small lateral appendages; its external surface is marked by transverse sulci, varying in number, that extend a short distance into the interior of its substance. On cutting into it in the sea- gull, fowl, and pigeon, the appearance of the arbor vitae is slightly perceptible. In the em- bryo of the chick on the sixteenth day, however, the cerebellum is very small, not yet suffici- ently developed to separate the optic lobes; very slight traces only of grooves were ap- parent on its surface (fig. 356, c). On the twentieth day it presents all the characters of the full-grown bird, both as regards relative size, position, and external stria? (fig. 357, c). Fig. 358. its weight, too, when compared with the body, is greater; and the ganglia composing it are more above, and less behind each other. The primary cerebral mass has now acquired so high a degree of developement as to surpass the others in size ; no convolutions are, how- ever, yet apparent on its surface; no large commissure yet exists to unite them. The optic lobes, or median cerebral mass, are small,, separated from each other, and their cavities- have decreased. The cerebellum, or third cerebral mass, is large; traces of lateral lobes are evident, and external striae are perceptible. Mammalia.—In the last and highest class,, the Mammalia, will be found some most in- teresting grades of developement and structural forms of the cerebral mass to arrest our atten- tion, and we shall observe how rapidly the different parts are added, and those already formed are more highly developed, to consti- tute the complex brain of the human species. The spinal cord (figs. 358, 321, 322, 323, d*) is of still less relative size than in the pre- ceding classes; it has an anterior and pos- terior longitudinal fissure. In a full-grown mouse, weighing 227 grains, the spinal marrow weighed one grain and a half, the brain six grains and a half—the proportions being as 100:22. We thus observe that the former is of much less relative size than the latter. The following is a table shewing the relative proportions of the brain and spinal marrow in, the four classes of Vertebrata:— Spinal Marrow. : 750 : 180 : 30 : 22 Pisces .... Reptilia .. Aves Mammalia The spinal Brain. Lamprey.... as 100 Triton as 100 Pigeon as 100 Mouse as 100 'Brain and portion of spinal cord of Lepus cuniculu-s (rabbit), natural size, left hemisphere sliced. a, first cerebral mass or cerebral hemispheres, slightly grooved on the external surface, b, corpus caflosum, short, c, cavity of lateral ventricle, d, portion of corpus striatum, e, taenia semicircu. laris. f, hippocampus major, the superior surface sliced." g, masses or ganglia of the olfactory nerves, •with their cavities. /*, bristle passed, shewing the communication between the cavity of the olfactory nerve and the lateral ventricle, k, second cere- bral mass or tubercula quadrigemina,—the anterior pair the largest. I, I, third cerebral mass or cere- bellum, very much grooved, d*, spinal cord, with its posterior longitudinal fissure. On reviewing these statements of the ner- vous system in the birds, we observe that the brain and spinal marrow are no longer situated on the same horizontal plane, and that the preponderance is now in favour of the brain : cord passes lower down the ver- tebral column than in man, but terminates by a true cauda equina, as in the bat and mouse, in which latter animal it is continued into the sacrum, but not into the caudal vertebrae, as in the preceding classes. In the bat the spinal cord descends no lower than the eleventh dorsal vertebra, a conformation rather un- usual : * the fissure on its posterior surface was deep in those animals, but it becomes less evi- dent as we approach the human species. It presents three distinct enlargements in its course : a superior one, the medulla oblongata; a median, and a posterior one, where the nerves for the extremities are given off: this is the case in the mouse and bat, though in the for- mer animal the superior and median enlarge- ments are so closely approximated as to render the spinal cord of great thickness in the tho- racic region of the body.f The following is a table shewing the relative proportions of the body and brain in the four classes of Vertebrata:— * Meckel (Archiv. fur Physiologie) also states, that in the hedgehog the spinal cord terminated in the thoracic vertebras. t Carus remarks the same thing in many of the Mammalia with a short neck; the Rodentia, for instance.