348 MICROSCOPE. should be paid to the action of this rack; it should work through a triangular socket at the top of the pillar of at least an inch long, closely embracing the bar, so that it may be moved up and down without the least shake, or variation from its axis, or tendency to slip, when loaded with the full weight it has to carry; at the same time, it should be sufficiently sensitive to be moved by the slightest rotation of the pinion, which may be effected, not only by the milled head, but by a lever, as in Mr. Holland's mi- croscope. Such a rack will afford the means of focal adjustment for doublets and triplets of high power, as well as for ordinary magnifiers. If it be considered desirable to vary the length of the pillar, and consequently the height of the stage, this may be effected by attaching the rack, stage, &c, to a piece of tube which shall slide within the one that is attached to the base ; if the top of the lower one is sprung, and surrounded by a clamping screw, the upper one may be firmly fixed at any elevation. This plan has been proposed by Dr. Goring for the pillar of his engiscope; but we consider it per- fectly inapplicable to a large instrument, of which the pillar should be solid, in order to avoid oscillation. The triangular bar carries at its top a double arm, attached to it with a screw and a small milled head, by which its movements may be rendered more or less free. This arm should be thick and well hammered, in order that, when it carries the compound body, it may not be subject to vibration. The object of the double bend in one side of it is to allow the 7iose of the body, which is screwed into the hole on that side, to project below it, so that the magnifiers may be attached on its un- der side; by this means, the necessity for un- screwing the body every time that the magni- fier is to be changed (which is requisite where the magnifier is screwed into the arm and the body into it) is avoided, without any increase in the length of the rack, which would other- wise be necessary for low powers. The other side of the arm carries the magnifiers, when employed as single lenses ; the same set may be used as are fitted to the compound body, their interior being screwed for attachment to it, and their exterior being adapted to drop loosely into the hole of the second arm. For such a microscope, we should recommend a series of ordinary lenses from 2J or 2 inches focus to |th of an inch, and two or three dou- blets from .^th to j'^th, with a triplet of j'jth. These may all be used as objectives with a meniscus eye-piece ; though, for the latter, Mr. Holland's will, in most cases, be preferable. The stage of this microscope may be a simple plate, attached to the top of the pillar, as in Jig. 166, with a spring stage and other appurte- nances adapted to it. We are inclined to re- commend for such a microscope, however, for the sake of simplicity and facility of use, a stage in which the ordinary principle of fixity is in some degree departed from. The upper part of it consists of a thick and strong fork, projecting about 2 inches and about 1£ inch broad, of well-hammered brass, firmly attached to the top of the pillar; at about fths of an inch below this is a plate of similar dimensions, with an aperture of about an inch. Bearing upon this lower plate by a spiral spring, and guided by vertical pins working through aper- tures in it, is a thin moveable plate, which is constantly being pressed upwards by the spring against the fork. This stage combines, in a degree which renders it an extremely conve- nient one, the advantages of the ordinary spring- stage, and the fork. The objects, whether placed in sliders, on slips of glass, or in aquatic boxes, are readily slid under the prongs of the fork (which should be bevelled off on the under side so as to allow them to enter), and are held by the spring with sufficient firmness in any position, whilst ready movement is also per- mitted them. The fork may have a vertical hole drilled in it on each side, for holding the stage forceps or other such instrument; and it may be made thick enough to allow of a la- teral hole for fixing the condenser, without being too much weakened. The thickness of the fork will be of no kind of inconve- nience, as the nose of the microscope will have free play from side to side between its prongs. To the lower plate may be attached ground- glass, stops, condensers, polarising apparatus, or any other required fittings. The disadvan- tage of this stage is that it affords no firm sup- port to the object, which is in some instances of importance. This may be obtained by sim- ply adapting a plate to the upper side of the fork, which may be received into grooves on its lower surface; and this plate may then be con- sidered as the stage. Whenever such an in- strument is being adapted to the purpose of dissection, all that is necessary is to raise up a support for the hands on each side of the stage, which may consist of books, or still better of blocks of wood cut to the form of the outside of Mr. Holland's case; and the height of the stage being then adjustible by the sliding tube of the pillar, all the advantage of Mr. Holland's microscope, except its self-containedness, may be secured. We have only further to mention the mirror, which should be at least two inches in diameter, and have one of its sides plane, and the other concave. Its stem should be attached to a short piece of sp?-ung tube sliding over the pillar, and capable of being secured in any situation by a clamping screw. If a still more portable microscope be re- quired, combining considerable range of power with great exactness of adjustment, we can strongly recommend an instrument constructed upon the plan of the large one subsequently to be described, (fig. 167,) but upon about two- fifths of the scale. Its pillar may either be screwed into the lid of the box containing the apparatus, or mounted on a tripod similar to that which is used for portable telescopes,—the tripod being reversed, and the legs being folded round the stem, when it is packed in its box. The delicate focal adjustment of which this microscope is susceptible renders it more ad- vantageous than the one last described, when deep magnifying powers are being employed;