352 MICROSCOPE. field of fourteen inches. In viewing large ob- jects for which great perfection is not required, we find it advantageous to interpose a ground- glass at about half or three quarters of an inch distance beneath them ; this is easily adapted to the under side of the stage. It serves to pro- duce an extremely equable diffusion of the light over a large field, and to deaden the glare which is occasioned by the direct admission of so large a quantity ; but, if applied to objects which require to be seen with great distinct- ness, it will be found to produce a kind of fog which seriously impairs the power of the micro- scope; and with objects of any difficulty it is quite inadmissible. In viewing objects, how- *ever, of the largest size that the microscope can receive, by a good diffused daylight, the ground- glass is never required. A bright cloud, oppo- site to the sun, is then the best source of illu- mination. For the purpose of effecting these and other adjustments of the mirror, we have found it convenient to have the tube which carries it sprung, so as to slide rather loosely on the stem, and to secure it in any particular situation by means of a large milled head which screws on one end of the tube, and clamps it upon the stem. The plane mirror, with a condensing lens between it and the stage, is preferred by many to a concave mirror; and for certain objects it is, without doubt, superior. For ordinary use, however, we prefer the concave mirror, for the following reasons :—Its effects are obtained by a single adjustment; whereas, in the use of the plane mirror and lens, two adjustments are re- quired : and if (as we shall presently state to be often desirable) the mirror be thrown quite out of the axis of the optical part of the instru- ment, it is difficult to adjust the condenser with correctness. Further, in order to obtain light enough for a field such as we have men- tioned, the condensing lens must be nearly three inches in diameter, and thus becomes very cumbrous and inconvenient. For objects of a high class the concave mirror should of course not be employed; but for these the common condenser is by no means adapted, and must be put aside for a superior one, such as we shall presently describe. The plane mir- ror and condenser enable the observer, how- ever, to obtain an additional variety of illumi- nation, which is often advantageous; and by a simple modification, proposed by Mr. Varley, the light of a bright cloud may be artificially imitated by them. The means of doing this consist in covering the surface of the plane mirror with carbonate of soda or pounded glass, by which the direct solar rays are reflected very much as by a white cloud. We have also seen a plaster of Paris mirror employed for the same puipose, and with good effect, where, on ac- count of the transparency of the object, it was necessary to reduce the amount of light sent through it, without interposing any screen that should produce indistinctness. It is often very desirable to throw the centre of the minor a good deal to one side of the axis of the body of the microscope, so that the reflected rays may fall very obliquely upon the object, and cause its prominences and depres- sions to exhibit shadows of much greater depth than can ever be seen with more direct light. No microscope, in which there is not a provision for this movement, can be regarded as having its resources properly developed ; and we have seldom seen one which comes up to our ideas of the degree in which it should be permitted. In general, the mirror-frame is immediately fixed to the sprung tube which carries it; and thus it can only be turned out of the axis at an angle which will evidently interfere with its use. In our own microscope, the mirror-frame is connected with the tube by a stalk of an inch in length, so that the centre of the mirror is three inches from the stem. This, of course, involves a lengthening of the stage, and of the arm which carries the body, in order that the centre of the apertures of all three may be in the same line; but the disadvantage hence resulting is easily avoided by increasing the strength of these parts. The variety of illumi- nation which may be given by a mirror fitted in the manner we have described, is very great; and some very curious and unexpected pheno- mena are not unfrequently disclosed by means of it. For example, the field may be rendered almost dark, by turning the centre of the mirror considerably out of the axis, so that none of the rays reflected by it pass up the body of the microscope; whilst objects of great delicacy will frequently appear brilliantly illuminated, on account of their retention of a part of the light which is passing obliquely through them. In this manner we have often been enabled to see an immense number of the minutest ani- malcules (monads) rapidly moving through water, in which, with direct light, none but the larger ones could be distinguished ; and the interest of the spectacle is heightened by the phosphorescent glow which the animalcules appear to have when thus illuminated.* A similar effect may be produced without the use of the concave mirror, by causing a direct pencil of rays from a lamp or candle to be thrown very obliquely upon the object by means of a condensing lens. In the examination of many delicate objects with high powers, direct light will often be found more advantageous than reflected. This may be obtained with facility, by placing a lamp or wax-candle behind the stage, the mirror being turned out of the way. In the day-time the direct light of a bright cloud will often be found to produce an extremely beautiful effect; but in order to attain this without an inconve- nient position of the head, the microscope stand must be elevated to such a height, that, when the stem is horizontal, or even inclined in a position contrary to the usual one, the eye-piece may be at a convenient height for the eye. The different modes of illumination best suited to different objects can only be found out by ex- perience, since achromatic objectives vary in their relative effects with each. * This method of viewing objects was publicly noticed, a few years since, as anew discovery; it had long, however, been familiar to ourselves, and, we believe, to most other scientific observers.