REGIONS OF THE LEG. 127 interfering with the comfort, if not with the health, of the entire system. It is composed of two bones, the tibia and fibula, with accompanying masses of muscles both before and behind, which act upon the foot. If we divide the leg into anterior, external, and posterior regions, we find in the anterior the tibialis anticus muscle, the extensor coin- munis digitorum, extensor proprius pollicis, and peroneus tertius ; in the external region, the peroneus longus and brevis; and poste- riorly, the two gastrocnemii, popliteus, plantaris, tibialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum, and flexor longus pollicis. Among these are run- ning the anterior and posterior tibial and pero- neal arteries, with their accompanying veins, nerves, and absorbents; all these bound toge- ther, and supported by strong fascial coverings, and enveloped in the general integument. Be- tween this and the fascia? just mentioned, is an important layer of cellular tissue, (fascia super- ficialis,) enclosing the two saphense veins, major and minor, and the superficial nerves and ab- sorbents. It may be well to make some few obser- vations upon the external form and characters of the leg, before describing the deeper seated parts. The leg, comprising al! that part of the lower extremity between the knee above and the ankle below, is somewhat of a conoidal tapering figure, rather flattened on its anterior and outer aspect, full and round posteriorly. This shape renders permanent compression by means of a bandage very difficult. The con- traction of the gastrocnemii, especially during walking, rarely fails in a short time to separate the turns of the bandage below, causing the lower ones to overlap each other, and producing constriction, irritation, and excoriation of the skin, above the malleoli. If this difficulty were more considered, and the importance of the bandage in diseases of the leg duly appre- ciated, we should see more pains taken in ac- quiring the art of its application than is now common; though we are happy to find that the minor operations of surgery are now beginning to receive much more attention than formerly, and to form a part of the general system of demonstrative instruction. Assuredly the ag- gregate amount of suffering relieved would be far greater by attention to these minutiae of surgery, than by the more striking, though not more important details of operations, which to the mass of practitioners can occur but seldom, if at all. The projection of the muscles at the back part of the leg, produced by the two gastro- cnemii, and known under the name of the calf, forms a characteristic peculiar to man. No inferior animal possesses it, noteven the ourang outang; and the feeble and uncertain gait of these animals, when in the erect position, at once demonstrates the value of the muscles of the calf of the leg, and that this position is natural only to man himself. The form and expression of this part of the leg varies much according to age, sex, and general habit. In infancy the gastrocnemii, in common with the developement of the whole lower extremity, are small and feeble. The upper extremities are, in early infancy, even larger than the lower ; these latter do not acquire their full growth and proportions till adult age. In the female, the general form of the leg is less marked and prominent, and more rounded than in the male, while, in this last, the leg presents every pos- sible variety of proportion, according as habits of exercise on foot, robust health, or long conti- nued sickness, has invigorated or enfeebled the muscular system at large, or this portion of it in particular. The broad and rounded surface of the calf of the leg is contracting as it de- scends, and at the lower part projects like a kind of cord, representing the tendo Achillis. In contraction, the calf shows two portions, marked out by a double fissure, which indi- cates the situation where the gastrocnemius join the soleus, the lower elevation being formed by this last muscle, which extends lower down the leg than the gastrocnemius. This projection of the soleus is in some much more marked than in others, and is indicative of considerable power when it reaches lower down, much more so than when the whole prominence of the calf is high up. In persons celebrated for pedestrian powers we have observed this projection of the soleus in a marked degree. In the anterior region of the leg, the form is considerably flatter than in the posterior, and narrows as we proceed downwards, at the lower part becoming almost round. During extension of the foot, this region is marked by longitudinal elevations and depressions, indi- cative of the situations of the muscles, and of the connecting portions of aponeurosis. An examination of these points will assist us in cutting down upon the arteries here, as the depressions mark the exact boundaries of the muscles, being produced by the aponeurotic processes, which dip between them. The integument of the anterior region, gene- rally covered with hair in man, and of a some- what dense structure, enjoys sufficient mobility to admit of wounds being united by the first intention, provided the loss of substance be not great. Not being very extensible, abscesses, tumours, &c, have great difficulty in projecting externally in front of the limb, and consequently for the most part remain more or less flattened. The posterior part of the leg has an integument more soft and elastic, and possessing fewer hairs than the anterior, particularly on the inner side. The position of the skin, with relation to the parts which it covers, occasions a marked difference in the mode of repairing the ravages of extensive ulcerations or sloughings. On the front and outer part of the leg, where the skin is somewhat stretched over the tibia and fibula, the process of cicatrization can only draw together the sound parts to a small de- gree. In consequence the healing process is slower in completion, and the cicatrix less de- pressed in proportion than when it is situated posteriorly. On the contrary, in this latter situation, the skin being stretched only over soft parts, when a considerable portion of it has been destroyed, the contractile force of the new