NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Enceph^lon.) 685 pons Varolii; and on its superior surface, which looks backwards, are the corpora quadrigemina, the processus cerebelli ad testes, and part of the floor of the fourth ventricle {fig- 386). According to Chaussier, its weight is equal to about the sixtieth or sixty-fifth part of the entire brain. We shall describe separately the inferior and the superior surfaces of this segment of the en- cephalon, and its intimate structure as unfolded by sections. The inferior surface, (pons Varolii, annular protuberance,) convex from side to side, is inter- rupted along the median plane from behind for- wards by a shallow groove in which the basilar artery usually lies, giving off in its course nu- merous minute capillaries to the nervous struc- ture of the mesocephale. When the pia mater has been stripped off this surface, it is seen to be very evidently composed of a series of transverse fibres which take an arched course. The fibres are collected into large fascicles separated from each other by very distinct intervals, so that there is no part where the fibrous structure is more appa- rent than here. They form arcs of circles, not concentric, lying one behind the other in a se- ries nearly parallel. Owing to this want of complete parallelism the width of this surface measured from before backwards is much less at each extremity than in the centre. The an- terior margin is convex, and forms a thick edge crossing the crura cerebri like a bridge ; hence the term pons was applied by Varolius to the whole series of fibres. The posterior border is concave, less curved than the anterior, and crosses the anterior pyramids and olivary co- lumns, as the latter does the crura cerebri. The intervening fascicles of fibres become gradually less curved as they approach the posterior margin. These transverse fibres form a stratum of considerable thickness at the inferior surface of the mesocephale. Some grey matter is depo- sited between the less superficial layers which constitute it. The more deep-seated layers are penetrated and crossed at right angles by the ascending fibres of the anterior pyramids. A remarkable interlacement takes place at this situation between the vertical and transverse fibres—the latter passing alternately in front of and behind adjacent bundles of the former. Some of the vertical fibres seem to sink into and connect themselves with the grey matter. A transverse vertical section of the meso- cephale gives a more complete view of the exact extent of the transverse fibres. They are found to occupy rather more than one-third of the depth of the exposed surface. Their dispo- sition in laminae is very apparent. Those which are nearest the centre of the mesocephale have between them considerable intervals, which are filled up by grey matter, through which pass vertically the fibres of the pyramids. The intervals between the lamina; gradually dimi- nish towards the inferior surface of the pons, and the quantity of intervening grey matter becomes proportionally less, and disappears altogether from between those laminae the in- tervals of which are not traversed by the fibres of the pyramids. The transverse fibres pass on either side into each hemisphere of the cerebellum, contributing with the processus cerebelli ad testes and the restiform bodies to form the crura cerebelli. They are the inferior peduncles of these crura. The anatomy of these transverse fibres evi- dently denotes that they serve to connect the right and left cerebellar hemispheres, as com- missures, and in a manner strikingly analogous to that in which the fibres of the corpus callosum connect the cerebral hemispheres. This view of the office of these fibres is strongly confirmed by the fact that their number is always in the direct ratio of the size of the lateral hemispheres, and that when the hemispheres are absent, these fibres no longer exist. When, therefore, the cerebellum consists only of a median lobe, there is no pons Varolii. Some of the transverse fibres nearer the in- ferior surface appear to dip in along the me- dian line, and to pass upwards and backwards, forming a vertical plane of fibres which divides the mesocephale into two symmetrical portions, and Chaussier imagined that a decussation took place at this situation. The groove in which the basilar artery lies is formed partly by the greater condensation which is produced along the median plane by this arrangement, and partly by the slight bulging on either side of it, caused by the ascent of the anterior py- ramids. These fibres are continuous with a series of similar ones in the medulla oblongata (antero-postcrior fibres of Cruveilhier). The extent of the superior surface of the me- socephale may be limited in front by a line which passes from side to side just before the anterior of the corpora quadrigemina, and pos- teriorly by the base of the valve of Vieussens. This occupies a much greater space than the inferior surface. It is an inclined plane, and passes downwards and backwards, being con- cealed by the anterior laminae of the superior vermiform process of the cerebellum and the posterior border of the corpus callosum. The corpora or tubercula quadrigemina are four rounded eminences—gangliform bodies—■ disposed in pairs (fig. 386, D, D'). The ante- rior pair are larger than the posterior. The for- mer have been distinguished as the nates, the latter the testes.* These bodies are situate further forwards than the pons,and are chiefly connected with the superior surface of each cms cerebri. The nates are of a deeper grey colour than the testes. In this respect they resemble the optic thalami. Both pairs are similar in struc- ture to those bodies. When cut into, they ap- pear to consist of fibrous matter intermingled with vesicular. Thin sections examined with the microscope exhibit intricate interlacements of tubular fibres with vesicular matter inter- posed—a true ganglionic structure. An important fact deserves special notice as indicating that vesicular matter is found in * Tn reference to these absurd appellations Willis has the following remark : " Prominentia orbicularis —quarum usus longe nobilior videtnr, quam nt viliora ista natium et testium nomiua meieantur."