NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Comparative Anatomy.) 607 may be considered as a repetition of the other; of these, the most anterior acquires the greatest developement, and is called the head. So in examining their nervous system, we shall rind that a primary nervous ring (formed of a gan- glion and two semi-circular radiating nerves) is contained in each segment. This ring, no longer closed, as in the preceding classes, but open, varies in degree of developement, accord- ing as the segment which encloses it is in a high or low degree of developement: thus, in the cephalic segment, or head, we shall always find developed a cerebral or supra-oesophageal ganglion; and, inasmuch as when a true ner- vous system was first formed—was first sepa- rated from the punctiform homogeneous mass of the gelatinous acrita—commissures were found uniting the primary masses of medullary substance (as we saw in the Asterias), so ought we to find, in the Articulata, commissures uniting the primary nervous rings; which latter are now become longitudinal, and the com- missures of the nervous ring itself are now become radiating nerves. We ought also to find that these commissures depend, in degree of developement and in situation, on the same characters of the primary nervous ring, and consequently on the ganglia thereon developed. We may next ask, what will mark the high or low degree of organization of a nervous system composed of several primary nervous rings ? The researches of philosophical anatomy inform us, that, first, a low degree will be characterized by an undetermined number of those rings—by a nearly equal developement of the whole, and by the central mass of nervous matter accumulated on them being situated on the ventral surface of the animal. Secondly, a higher degree of organization exists when the primary nervous rings are repeated in a deter- minate manner—when some of them predomi- nate in developement over the others, and their central medullary masses, or ganglions, are situated on the dorsal aspect of the animal. Again, as regards the uniting commissures, these will, of course, depend, in degree of developement, on the organization of the gan- glions united by them; and the more perfect and the more intimate is the connexion esta- blished by these commissures, the more highly organized is the nervous system. In the Articulata about to be described, we shall always find the most anterior nervous ring developing a ganglion on its superior sur- face—a true cerebral ganglion. We shall find this nervous ring repeated in the other segments of the body, but in a much more imperfect manner, for ganglions are developed only on the ventral surface of the animal; and from this latter circumstance, they, as well as their commissures, cannot be highly developed. 1. Entuzoa.—In the lower forms of Entozoa, as in the taenia and cysticercus, no nervous system is discoverable. These animals consist of a gelatinous, more or less homogeneous mass, in which no distinct nervous system exists. In the Distoma hepaticum, the nervous system consists, according to Bojanus,* of a * Isis, 1821, vol. i. p. 168. nervous collar or ring, with two lateral gan- glions entwining the oesophagus, and two nerves which are distributed on the posterior part of the body. In the Ascaris lumbricoides, the nervous system consists of a thin double fila- ment, without ganglia, situated in the median line of the abdomen, which separates to enclose the opening of the vulva, and to encompass the oesophagus at the lower part of the mouth. In the Strongylus gigas, according to Otto,* the median nervous filament consists of very closely approximated ganglia, thus advancing a step higher in organization, and approaching to the character of the true articulated classes. 2. liulifera.—The Rotifera are minute mi- croscopic animals: in them Ehrenberg has discovered and described a rather complex ner- vous organization, sufficiently so to justify their being ranked thus high in the scale of animated beings.f In the Ilydatina senta, according to this anatomist, the nervous system consists of two closely approximated filaments running along the abdomen, and giving off lateral branches in their course forwards: arrived at the anterior part of the body, these nerves form a large ganglion, and then ascend to embrace the oesophagus in the form of a ring, on which minute ganglia are developed, giving off nu- merous filaments to the surrounding parts. There are four of these lateral ganglia, besides the large supra-oesophageal ganglion. 3. Cirrhopoda.—In the Cirrhopoda, the abdominal nervous cords have regular ganglia developed on them, and there is a nervous collar round the oesophagus, as in the preceding classes. Cuvier observes, J that in a species of Lepas he found two nervous cords situated on the ventral surface of the body, with five double ganglia developed on them, from which were given off lateral filaments to supply the curled feet. Anteriorly, and at the lower part of the mouth, these cords separated more widely, to encircle the oesophagus, above which they de- veloped a quadrilobate ganglion, from which were given off four nerves to the viscera and muscles. 4. Annelida.—The nervous system of the Annelida consists of a varied number of ganglia, united by double longitudinal commissures, running along the ventral surface of the body, from which lateral filaments are given off. There is also a supra-cesophageal ganglion, which, being connected by lateral nervous cords with the first pair of infra-cesophageal ganglia, form a ring or collar, surrounding the oesopha- gus : this we at once recognize as the most anterior of the column of primary nervous rings, with the ganglion developed on its supe- rior surface. I have examined the nervous system in the genera Lumbricus, Aphrodita, and Hirudo; the general plan was the same in all. In the Lumbricus terrestris, or common earth-worm, a nervous cord passed along the whole ventral surface of the animal, and pre- sented, in a small species, the appearance * Berliner Magazin, 1814, p. 178. t Organisation Systematik iter lnfnsions-Thier- chen, Berlin, 1830. I Annt. des Mollusques.