MICROSCOPE. 334 Fig. 155. Formation of images by convex lenses. tance on the other side of the lens, will be of the same dimensions with the object: whilst, on the other hand, if the object be nearer the lens, the image will be farther from it, and of larger dimensions ; and if the object be farther from the lens, the image will be nearer to it, and smaller than itself. Further, it is to be re- marked, that the larger the image in proportion to the object, the less bright it will be, because the same amount of light has to be spread over a greater surface ; whilst a smaller image will be much more brilliant, in the same proportion. The knowledge of these general facts will enable us readily to understand the ordinary operation of the microscope; but the instru- ment is subject to imperfections of various kinds, the mode of remedying which cannot be comprehended without an acquaintance with their nature. One of these imperfections re- sults from the spherical aberration of the rays which have passed through lenses, whose curva- tures are equal over their whole surfaces. If the course of the rays be carefully laid down, it will be found that they do not all meet exactly Fig. 156. A B, rays falling on the periphery of the lens; F, focus of these; a, b, rays falling nearer the centre ; f, more distant focus of these. in the foci already stated, but that the focus of the rays which have passed through the peri- pheral portion of the lens is much closer to it than that of the rays which are nearer the line of its axis ; so that, if a screen be held in the former, the rays which have passed through the central portion of the lens will be stopped by it before they have come to a focus; and if the screen be carried back into the focus of these, the rays which were most distant from the axis will have previously met and crossed, so that they will come to it in a state of divergence. In either case, therefore, the image will have a certain degree of indistinctness ; and there is no one point to which all the rays can be brought by a lens of spherical curvature. The difference between the focal points of the cen- tral and of the peripheral rays is termed the spherical, aberration. It is obvious that, to produce the desired effect, the curvature is re- quired to be increased around the centre of the lens, so as to bring the rays which pass through it more speedily to a focus, and to be diminished towards the circumference, so as to throw the focus of the rays influenced by it to a greater distance. The requisite conditions may be exactly fulfilled by a lens one of whose surfaces, instead of being spherical, is a portion of an ellipsoid or hyperboloid of certain pro- portions ; but the difficulties in the way of the mechanical execution of lenses of this descrip- tion are such, that, for all practical purposes, they have been entirely abandoned in favour of lenses with spherical surfaces. Various means have been devised for diminishing the aber- ration of these. In microscopes of ordinary construction, the method employed is to dimi- nish the aperture or working surface of the lens, so as to employ only the rays that pass through the central part, which, if sufficiently small in proportion to the whole sphere, will bring them all to nearly the same focus. The use of this may be particularly noticed in the object-glasses of common microscopes ; where, although the lens itself be large, the greater portion of its surface is rendered inoperative by a stop, which is a plate with a circular aperture interposed between the lens and the rest of the instrument. If this aperture be gradually enlarged, it will be seen that, although the image becomes more and more illuminated, it is at the same time becoming more and more indistinct; and that, in order to gain defining power, the aperture must be reduced again. Now this reduction is attended with two great inconveniences ; in the first place, the loss of intensity of light, the de- gree of which will depend upon the quantity transmitted by the lens, and will vary therefore with its aperture ; and, secondly, the diminu- tion of the number or quantity of rays, which will prevent the surfaces of objects from being properly seen. Thus, for example, we shall suppose the observer to be looking at the scales of a butterfly's wing with a microscope fur- nished with two object-glasses of the same focal length,—one corrected, the other not so. If, with the same illumination of the object, he apply to it the uncorrected objective, the aper- ture of which is necessarily small, after having looked at it with the corrected lens, he will, in the first place, perceive that the whole field is much darker; but if, by increasing his illumi- nation, he give the image an equal brightness, and see its outline with equal distinctness, he will be completely unable to see with the un- corrected lens a series of delicate lines upon the surface of the scale, which the other makes evident. The power of exhibiting these and similar objects is termed penetration ; it de- pends upon the size of the conical pencils of light admitted by the lens, and therefore upon its aperture. The spherical aberration may be considerably diminished by making the most advantageous use of single lenses. Thus the aberration of a plano-convex lens, whose convex side is turned towards parallel rays, is only T'075ths of its thickness, whilst, if the plane side be turned