MUSCULAR MOTION. 523 ing of the material composing the fibre, as is shown by the general outline of the part, but especially by the appearances visible in its interior. The transverse stripes, both light and dark, become longer and thinner; in other words, the discs "expand in circumference, flatten and approximate to one another; or to use another form of expression, the fibrillse become shorter and thicker, both in the par- ticles composing them and the material con- necting those particles (fig. 301). Fig. 301. fragment of an elementaryfihre(from the eel)partially contracted in water. Magnified 300 diamt a, uncontracted part. b, contracted part, along the border of which, at c, the sarcoiemma is raised from the surface by the water that has been absorbed, that has thereby caused the contraction, and by it has been expelled from the contractile mass. These changes are always local, or partial, and it is most evident from the characters they constantly present, that they are not limited to any determinate regions, points, or segments, but occur indifferently wherever the exciting cause may chance to be exerted. Neither discs nor fibrillar appear to have the smallest share, as aggregations of particles bearing those par- ticular forms, in producing the phenomena of contraction. A contraction is never bounded to a particular number of discs or fibrillar, and is never accurately limited by the interval between two discs. It constantly happens that at the edge of the contracted part several discs are only partially engaged in it. A contraction generally, when commencing at the broken end of a fibre, occupies its whole width there; but when it commences at the border of the fibre it may be confined to a portion of many discs. And, further, a contraction never occu- pies the whole length of a fibre or fibrilla at once. A contraction excited in an elementary fibre by the contact of a hair extends into the mass equally in all directions, as we might suppose it would do, if the mass were homo- geneous. In a word, an attentive study of these inte- resting phenomena has convinced me that in the bare fact of contraction the build of the fibre is an item of no importance whatever: the exquisite symmetry displayed in the apposition of its component particles is, as it were, dis- regarded and overlooked, while the whole pro- cess is to be referred to the material itself, the ultimate tissue, whose property is contractility. This property appears to reside both in the par- ticles and the substance connecting them. The ultimate movements, therefore, on which contraction depends, whatever they may con- sist in, are molecular, and far beyond the reach of sense. It will be perceived that this view of the subject is the only one which can harmonize the fact of contraction in voluntary muscle with the same phenomenon in structures which have no complicated internal arrangement of particles. In regarding contractility, therefore, as a property of the living muscular fibre in general, it is meant that it resides in it as a property without which it would not be muscle, and in such a manner that no particle, how- ever microscopic, can be detached from muscle which does not of itself, and independently of the rest, possess this property, as long as it possesses vitality. It follows from what has been advanced that those hypotheses which refer contraction to a force exerted between determinate but distant points of the fibre, as where the nervous fibrillar cross it, or at intervals such as Muller* has sometimes seen in insects, must fall to the ground. They are so entirely incompatible with the facts above stated that it can scarcely be necessary to dwell at length on the other reasons for rejecting them, or on the explana- tion of the phenomena adduced in their support. The main fact on which they have been built is that long ago mentioned by Hales, and more recently studied with minute care by Prevost and Dumas, viz. that in the abdominal muscles of the frog detached and excited by galvanism, the elementary fibres are seen to be thrown more or less into a zig-zag form. It is evident that in interpreting what they saw these eminent physiologists mistook the relaxed fibres for contracted ones. In conducting such experi- ments many precautions are required, and at the best, nothing of the real process of contrac- tion can be witnessed. As Muller correctly remarks, the muscle is too thick to be seen under a high power. Besides, the shock of galvanism causes only an instantaneous con- traction, during which the muscle is so agitated that it is in vain to attempt to examine its con- dition. It gets out of the focus of the instru- ment. What is seen afterwards is not the contraction but its result, viz. an approximation of the extremities of the fibres. If the galvanic shock has acted uniformly on all the fibres (which is rare), they all remain straight; but if on a part only, those which have escaped con- traction are thrown into zig-zags by having their ends brought nearer through their cellular con- nexion with neighbouring contracted fibres. It is most natural that the precise point of such flexures should often be determined by the passage of nerves or vessels across the fibres. This is corroborated by the circumstance that relaxed fibres fall at once into zig-zags when their ends are made to approach by mechanical means. MM. Prevost and Dumas have themselves drawn attention to an example of shortening without zig-zags in the case of the distended abdominal muscles of the female frog before spawning. They found that the fibres of those muscles when cut across remained straight, alter shortening from 145 to 107 millimetres. * Physiology by Baly, p. 889.