72 If PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. next paragraph lie enquires whether nerves can establish any communication or consent with each other in their ganglia, and also discusses the use of ganglia, giving his assent, in some degree, to the doctrine which he assigns to Unzer and Winter!,* that external impressions are capable of being reflected by ganglia as they are reflected in the sensorium commune, and that ganglia are particular centres of sensorial impressions (sensoria particularia). He sup- poses that the action of the heart may be ex- plained in this way through the impressions made by the blood upon its sensitive nerves which are reflected at the ganglia ;f and he con- cludes by admitting it to be probable that besides the sensorium commune which resides in the medulla oblongata, the medulla spinalis, &e., there are sensoria particularia in ganglia and anastomoses of nerves (concatenationibus ner- vorum) in which external impressions are re- flected, without their reaching the sensorium commune. % In the fifth and last chapter Prochaska dis- cusses the animal functions of the nervous system. He shows that the soul, ens incor- porea prosapits, uses the nervous system as an instrument, and that, in all animal functions, it is the principium agens et determinans. He describes the principal parts into which the animal functions can be conveniently resolved, as perception, judgment, will, to which may be added imagination and memory. For the ex- ercise of these he lays down that the joint and harmonious action of the mind and brain is necessary, and lie assigns to each of them a * Unzer, Gundriss eines Lehrgebatides von der Sinnlichkeit der thierischen Korper, 1768 ; also, Ertse Grunde einer Physiologie der eigentlichen thierischen Natur thierischer Korper. 1771. Win- terl, Inflammationis nova tlicoria, Viennae, 1767. J have not had an opportunity of perusing any of the works of Unzer. They are, indeed, little known in this country, having first appeared at a time when German literature was scarcely at all culti- vated here. The only English medical writer with whom I am acquainted, who has made distinct re- ference to Unzer from having apparently studied his works, is Sir Alexander Crichton, who seems to have formed a high estimate of Unzer's Erste Grunde einer Physiol, as I gather from his work on Mental Derangement, published in 1798. Dr. Baly, the learned translator of Muller's Physiology, also refers to Unzer ; and I must express my obligations to an interesting article in Dr. Forbes's journal (the British and Foreign Medical Review) for July, 1847, which contains a good abstract of Unzer's views, with an account of his writings. From this it is plain that Unzer had very enlarged views with reference to the phenomena of the nervous system, and perfectly appreciated the distinction to be made between those actions with which the mind is con- cerned either as excitor or recipient, and those which in their causation and developement. are wholly independent of the mind, although not un- perceived by it. The publication of Unzer's prin- cipal works and also of Prochaska's in an English dress would be a great boon to the student of the physiology of the nervous system, and would most legitimately come within the scope of the Sydenham Society. t This is the doctrine in most favour at the pre- sent day. | It is plain from the context that Prochaska had no idea of these sensoria having any connection with the mind, or with the mental power of perception. different locality in the brain. In the last sec- tion he again defines the animal actions, and distinguishes them from those which are de- pendent on a physical exciting cause; and argues against the Stahlian doctrine, which placed each movement and function of the body under the control of the soul. These doctrines are repeated and somewhat enlarged upon in a much later work by Pro- chaska, published at Vienna in 1810, entitled, " Lehrsatze aus der Physiologie des Men- schen," a third and much enlarged edition of a text book for his lectures. The whole section on the nervous system will repay an attentive perusal, and especially the chapter headed " Verrichtung des allgemeinen Sensoriums," which contains a review of the doctrine of re- flex actions. A later edition of the same work, somewhat compressed in some parts, published in 1820, contains a repetition and a distinct enunciation of the same doctrines (p. 92).* It is not a little remarkable, and at the same time highly discreditable to physiologists, that views so comprehensive and so striking should have been suffered to fall into neglect and to be- come almost wholly forgotten, and that the pe- culiar power of nervous centres to develope motions in response to sensorial impressions, nr, in Prochaska's language, " to reflect sensorial into motor impressions," should have been lost sight of. Le Gallois, indeed, had recognized this power, and Blane had evidently much insight into it; Mayo, likewise, had formed a very correct appreciation of it, as shown by his observations on the actions of the iris. But none of these physiologists were fully impressed with its immense importance. It is to Dr. Marshall Hall in this country and to Professor Muller in Germany that science is most in- debted for awakening the attention of physi- * Geo. Prochaska was born in 1749, and studied medicine at Vienna, where he was clinical assistant to the celebrated De Haen. He published an in- augural dissertation de minis, but the works which first attracted notice were his Quaestiones Physiolo- gical, Vienna, 1778 ; and his treatises De Carne Musculari, and De Structura Nervorum. In 1778 he was made professor of anatomy and of ophthal- mic surgery at the University oi Prague, where he formed a valuable cabinet of preparations of mor- bid parts. In 1791 he was translated to a similar chair in the University of Vienna, with the title of Lehrer der hdhern Anatomic, Physiologie, und Augenarzneykunde. M. Dezeimeiis, from whose Dictionnaire Histonque de la Medecine (art. Pro- chaska) this account is abridged, remarks of him that " he was one of those who strove to reduce the laws of life to the general laws of nature, and to make physiology a branch of experimental phy- sics." Prochaska died on the 17th of July, 1820. The works in which he propounded his views re- specting the nervous system are, 1. Annotation. Academic, fasc. iii., Prague, 1784. 2. Lehrsatze aus der Physiol, des Menschen, Isted., 1797, in 2 vol.; 2nd ed. 1802 ; 3rd ed. 1810. 3. Opera minora Physiologici et Pathologici Argumenti, p. i. et ii. 4. Physiologie oder hehre von der Na- tur des Menschen, 1820. To these, perhaps, may be added a Latin edition of his Physiology, Insti- tutiones Pbysiologias Humana;, 1805-6; and Disq. Anatom. Phys. Organismi Corporis Humani, ejusq. Processus Vitalis, 1812; but neither of these works have 1 seen.