555 MYRIAPODA. the circumstance that it is at this part of the body that the future new segments are to be produced. On the fourth day, Mr. Newport first ob- served some faint traces of a single eye, or ocellus, on each side of the head. The embryo had now further increased in size, and the ru- diments of its future legs had become larger and more obtuse, an appearance which the newly-formed limbs of the Articulata often exhibit previously to their further elongation. Traces of the formation of internal organs were now evident through the tegument at the pos- terior part of the body, and the funis was con- tracted as if about to separate. Internally the body was still formed of cells aggregated toge- ther, but differing more in size than at any previous period, as if they were becoming fused into separate tissues, and in the midst of them and closely surrounded on all sides was the newly-formed alimentary canal. The canal was now more opaque, and when pressed out of the body more firmly adhered together than any other internal structure, and was dis- tinctly composed of an aggregation of very minute cells. Around the sides of the body muscular structure was also in the course of development, but as yet was exceedingly in- distinct, insomuch that Mr. Newport could discover no perfect fibre, a fact that sufficiently accounts for the entire absence of spontaneous motion in the embryo up to this period. A new process was now about to commence —the development of new segments. On the third day, as has been already stated, the pos- terior part of the body is less distinctly divided into segments than the anterior, the first five segments being most distinctly marked. The sixth and seventh are now more defined. It is in the membrane f, ./'£'• 321, that connects the seventh with the eighth segment at the posterior margin of which last the funis (d) enters, and which segment is permanent as the 'penultimate throughout the life of the animal, that the for- mation of new segments is taking place. At this period it is only a little ill-defined space that unites the seventh and eighth segments into one mass, but in proportion as the anterior parts of the body become developed, this part is also enlarged, not as a single structure, but as a multiplication or repetition of separate si- milar structures. On the ninth day the changes have advanced much further (Jig. 320) ; not only have the future new segments become more distinct, but trans- verse depressions are also seen on the dorsal surface of the original segments, shewingtheirdivision into double ones, as in the perfect animal. The rudi- ments of the legs are now further developed, and their transparent distal extremities are seen through the investing mem- brane applied closely together and extended along the ventral surface of the body, as in the nymphs or pupae of true Insects. The an- tennas and ocelli are more apparent, and the embryo itself has increased at least one-third of its original dimensions. It is still attached by the funis to the shell, but this attachment is daily becoming more fragile, and is now sepa- rated by very slight causes. The embryo has thus continued to grow through nine succeed- ing days, since the bursting; of its shell, without any visible means of nourishment, the nutri- ment supplied by the yelk having been ex- hausted before that occurrence. Hence it be- comes a matter of inquiry from whence it now derives its means of growth ? Whether it has already sufficient materials derived from the egg, and stored up within itself for its future development, or whether the external inclosing membrane may not still contribute to the func- tion of nutrition by absorbing fluid condensed from the air of the humid locality in which it re- sides. The probability of this last supposition, says Mr. Newport, is somewhat countenanced by the fact that I have constantly observed the membranes of the embryo at this period co- vered with microscopic drops of fluid, but whether this is fluid condensed on the mem- branes from the atmosphere of the dwelling, or whether it results from the transudation of that which was contained in the amnion, re- mains for future inquiry. Up to this period the embryo gives not the slightest evidence of spontaneous or voluntary motion. Internally it is still composed of cells of different sizes that are now in the course of producing muscular and other structures. In some parts of its body no arrangement of them seems as yet to have taken place, the cells being merely aggregated together. Cells of three very distinct sizes now exist. The dia- meter of the largest of these is nearly three times that of the second size, and the second again are nearly twice and a half the size of the smallest. The smallest sized cells fill up the interspaces between the others, and appear as if breaking down to form interstitial or cellular substance, while the second sized cells are arranged in rows to form particular structures. In the midst of these cells the alimentary canal is now nearly complete, but Mr. Newport was unable to observe its connexion with the funis. At its anal extremity it is a little dilated, and extends forward as a short straight intestine, the rectum, until it arrives at a part where a valve seems about to be formed. The diameter of the canal is there enlarged, and on its surface are three distinct longitudinal muscular bands. The so-called hepatic vessels also exist as dis- tinct tubes inserted one on each side into the alimentary canal at the constricted or valve-like part above noticed. The canal is then conti- nued forwards until it is again dilated into the proper stomach, and terminates or rather com- mences in a narrow oesophagus. It is much longer than the body of the embryo, being con- voluted or folded upon itself in its lower por- tion, to adapt it to the changes that the body undergoes in the enlargement and elongation of its segments. It is not yet separated from the now forming structures by any distinct