222 LYMPHATIC AND LACTEAL SYSTEM. encing inert and unorganized particles. It is assuredly a striking fact, and one fraught with great interest, that the new molecules on their first introduction into the living system, should possess one of the most conspicuous attributes of vitality, viz. motion.* Mr. Ancell, who has paid great attention to the animal fluids, has frequently examined these moveable granules with me, and is inclined to consider their mo- tions, as indicating the first obvious impress of vitality which the new material has received from its association with living matter. Be- sides the granules, there exist in the chyle numerous spherical globules colourless and granular on the surface, averaging l-5000th, but ranging between l-3000th and 1-7000th of an inch in diameter, resembling in every par- ticular the lymph globule, with which they are probably identical. These globules I conceive are not derived from the interior of the intes- tine as some have supposed, nor from the glands, as I presume is Mr. Gulliver's opinion, but I would rather say are formed in the chyle and lymph by the aggregation of similar par- ticles, probably fibrinous. Globules of oily or fatty matter are also found in the chyle; these may be readily distinguished by their circular and even outline, by their smooth and apparently flat surfaces, and by the great variety of their size, some being as small as the chyle granule, while others exceed the globule in diameter; in many respects they resemble the milk globule in appearance. Blood corpuscules will of course be frequently seen mixed with the chyle, as it is exceedingly difficult to collect it free from them. In the chyle the blood cor- puscule loses its circular outline, its ordinary flattened form, its concave or cupped surface, and assumes a corrugated or wrinkled appear- ance, a spiked or serrated edge ; the blood corpuscules, when thus corrugated, are less in diameter than the surrounding chyle globules, and have frequently been mistaken for them. On examining the blood taken from a living animal after a recent flow of chyle into it, this appearance of the blood corpuscule will also be readily distinguished. The corrugations alluded to on the blood corpuscule may be mistaken for spots on it; and when the corpus- cule is revolving or vibrating, they may even appear like particles moving within it. I was for a short time misled by this deceptive ap- pearance into the belief that the chyle granule, when received into the blood, entered the envelope of the blood corpuscule to form its nucleus. This erroneous notion, however, was soon corrected on finding that other fluids pro- duced the same appearance in the blood cor- puscules. It will be observed then, that I am induced to think that the chyle is never per- fectly free from lymph; that in fact the lymph is termed chyle when it is rendered white by the addition of the moveable chyle granules from the interior of the intestine, to which are * [Wagner has depicted in his Icones Physiolo- gies minute granules, which he designates " Mole- cules minores, cujusmodi in liquore chyii natant, procul dubio chyli granula futura." Tab. xiii. fig. 11.—Ed.] added from the same source the oily or fatty particles. If the clot and serum of the chyle be exa- mined separately under the microscope, they will both be found to contain the chyle granule in sufficient quantity to render them white; the chyle globule, or any blood corpuscule that the specimen may have contained, will be entangled in the clot, while the oily particles will be principally found in the serum. If the coagulation has been incomplete, or the spe- cimen Iras been agitated, some chyle globules and blood corpuscules will of course be mixed with the serum. The chyle has been analyzed by Reuss and Emmert, by Vauquelin, by Marcet, Prout, and Brand e, by Leu ret and Lassaigne and by Tiedemann and Gmelin, but in a science so ra- pidly progressive as chemistry it is desirable to adduce the most recent information bearing on the subject. I shall therefore select the ana- lysis given by Berzelius, (taken from the trans- lation of his treatise on Chemistry by Me. Es- linger, published at Paris in 1833,) who adopts some of the opinions of Tiedemann and Gme- lin, and with whose analysis of the chyle his pretty exactly agrees. In 100 parts of chyle, taken from the tho- racic duct of a horse during the digestion of a meal of oats, he obtained, after breaking up and pressing the clot, 96 99 parts by weight of serum and 301 of clot: the former was re- duced by desiccation to 7-39 parts and the latter to 0-78 ; consequently, after evaporation, the proportions in 100 parts stood thus— Desiccated clot 0-78 Desiccated serum 7'39 Water 91-83 100-00 The dry clot softened when digested in dis- tilled vinegar, but without being dissolved by it to any perceptible extent. A small quantity of a brownish-yellow oil was obtained from it by the action of boiling alcohol. One hundred parts of the desiccated serum contained— Brown fatty matter 15-47 Yellow fatty matter 6 35 Osmazoine, lactate of soda, and chlo-} jq.q2 ride of sodium S Extractive matter soluble in water, in-} soluble in alcohol, with carbonate > 2-76 and a little phosphate of soda .... * Albumen 55-25 Carbonate with traces of phosphate of lime 98-61 It has been generally stated and believed that a sufficient quantity of chyle for chemical analysis could not be obtained from the lacteals before they reached the thoracic duct, conse- quently, that which has hitherto been submitted to chemical examination has been taken from the trunk of the system, where it must of ne- cessity have been mixed with a greater or less