MOLLUSCA. 363 parts of the mammary gland, where, though each constituent of the blood be changed in its character to form milk, yet each constituent of that secretion retains an obvious type in the fluid from which it was eliminated ; thus if we compare the blood and this secretion side by Blood separating into Clot side, we remark not only identical physical changes to occur, but also the existence of a set of proximate elements, which, though pioper to each, still possess many chemical qualities in common ; for instance— Milk separating into ( Fibrin ) Red particles ("Albumen and I Alcoholic extractive, viz. lactates Serum -< Aqueous extractive; albu- minate of soda Alkaline salts Fatty matter The similarity of reaction between fibrin, albumen, and casein is well known to chemists, and the derivation of the latter from the former can scarcely admit of a doubt; the only dif- ference acknowledged between fibrin and albu- men is a physical one, and it would be exceed- ingly interesting to ascertain whether or not the casein, which, like fibrin, separates on stand- ing, be not physically different from that por- tion of casein which remains in the fluid after the milk has creamed. The red particles of the blood certainly bear no analogy whatever to the butyraceous matter of milk in its perfectly formed state; it is a curious fact, however, noticed by Sir Astley Cooper, that the colos- trum at its first appearance is occasionally of a red colour, and the cream which separates is of a still deeper red tinge, thus rendering it probable that the fatty matters are in this in- stance the colouring ingredient. I may men- tion, in addition, that it is not easy to obtain haematosine quite free from fatty matter; there appears to exist a natural affinity between them. The alcoholic extractives of blood and milk are too obviously analogous to need comment, as are the salts and likewise the fatty matters adherent to the casein of the milk and the albumen of the serum. The sugar of milk appears in all probability derived from the aqueous extractive of the blood, an ingredient which has scarcely attracted sufficient attention, and the development of whose chemical rela- tions may perhaps assist us greatly in obtaining a further insight into the true nature of those changes which are effected in the minute struc- ture of secreting glands. I have thought it right to mention the above resemblance, as I cannot help thinking that we may be greatly assisted hereafter in the physiology of secretion by attempting to reduce each proximate ele- ment of a secerned fluid to some type in the blood, and afterwards endeavouring artificially to produce those substances from their ana- logues in the circulating fluid ; as nature may perhaps in this way form them for the various secretions, by the so-called chemistry of vita- lity. Physiologists and chemists are, in the present day, too prone to atttibule the forma- tion of those substances contained in secretions, Cream and Milk or skim milk Casein Butyraceous matter Casein Alcoholic extractive, viz. lactates and lactic acid Aqueous extractive, with sugar of milk Alkaline salts Fatty matter and which cannot be detected in the blood, to changes occurring among the ultimate ele- ments of organic matter, changes of a character too intimate and obscure ever to be induced by those reagents which non-vital chemistry applies in effecting transformations. Such a conclusion is founded on the assumption that organic chemistry is not to make that progress which we now see in almost every branch of inquiry, a progress marked by the develop- ment of new laws which not only become valuable as indicators for the ascertainment of new facts, but which have a retrospective in- fluence on science, rearranging and altering the bearings and relations of previously ascertained phenomena. (G. 0. Rees.) MOLLUSCA, (Lat. mollis,) Malakia and Ostracoderma of Aristotle; Mollusques, Fr.; Weichthiere, Mollusken, Germ.; Mollusks, Engl.; invertebrated animals, distinguished by Bruguiere from insects by the negative cha- racters of the absence of bones, of stigmata, and of jointed feet; and first accurately de- fined by Cuvier as a primary division of the animal kingdom, with the following anatomical characters. The Mollusks are animals without an articulated skeleton or a vertebral column. Their nervous system is not concentrated in a spinal marrow, but merely in a certain number of medullary masses dispersed in different points of the body, the chief of which, termed the brain, is situated transversely above the oesophagus, and encompasses it with a nervous collar. Their organs of motion and of the sensations have not the same uniformity as to number and position as in the Vertebrata, and the irregularity is still more striking in the viscera, particularly as respects the position of the heart and respiratory organs, and even as regards the structure of the latter: for some of these respire elastic air, and others water, either fresh or of the sea. Their external organs, however, and those of locomotion are generally arranged symmetrically on the two sides of an axis. The circulation of the Mol- lusks is always double; that is, their pulmo- nary circulation describes a separate and dis- tinct circle. The blood of the Mollusks is white