488 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. alcohol immediately on its removal from the body ; a fragment of the tubes of Lieberkuhn should then be scraped off, pulled to pieces, and examined in a fluid medium under a high power. The margins and rounded extre- mities of the tubes will then be seen to be sharply defined, as in the cases already men- tioned, and to be formed by a structure inde- pendent of the epithelium, which latter forms ^gtlis of their thickness. This structure is the basement membrane. When masses of epithe- lium, escaped from the tubes and bearing their form, are met with floating around, their out- line is uniformly irregular, and, as it were, woolly. Sometimes, as in the kidney (fig- 273), the basement membrane is seen up to a certain point only,beyond which it has been detached; and in less recent specimens a tube of basement membrane is sometimes seen, containing a mass of broken-down epithelium. If the part selected for examination be the stomach, the same precautions should be ob- served, for here this membrane is, if possible, more delicate than below the pylorus, and the epithelial particles are often so large as to bulge the tubes very irregularly, especially towards their blind extremities. It is between these bulges that the basement membrane may be best seen (fig. 276). Nothing is more difficult than to explore, in a satisfactory manner, the internal structure of the intestinal villi. Their thick epithelial caps and their abundant vascular rete are readily demonstrable, but the arrangement of the lac- teals, which undoubtedly exist in them, and of the structure on which the epithelium imme- diately rests, has hitherto almost entirely eluded our research. In vertical sections of the recent small intestine of the Car- nivora, I have several times seen the direct continuity of the epithelium covering the villi, with that lining the tubes which open at their ^\ base; and also a distinct continuity between the inte- rior of the villi, where the vessels are spread out, with the vascular intervals be- tween the tubes, which con- tain the fine capillary web surrounding the tubes, and likewise give passage to the branches to and from the villi. It is then difficult to avoid the belief that the basement membrane of the tubes is continued under the Lower extremity of a epithelium of the villi, to fomach tubule from r , . the doq ( Varus fa- support it, and form a part mmaris), magnified of those remarkable projec- 300 diameters. tions. Nevertheless I have not been able to see it in an At a.°'.lthe_ba^men_t isolated and distinct form, and do not therefore assert its positive existence; only I believe that the fact that the injected vessels of a villus, when seen in profile at its margin under a high power, and when the epithelium has been removed, seldom come to the extreme edge, is attributable to the circumstance of the basement membrane still investing them. This membrane, if it really exist here, adheres intimately to the parts within the villus. It might seem at first sight a hopeless task to search in so dense and complicated a struc- ture as the skin, for the analogue of a mem- brane like that I have been describing, which, in no situation where it can be unequivocally brought into view, exceeds the 8000th of an inch in thickness. But as it must exist, if at all, between the epidermis and the vessels and nerves of the cutis, in a position sufficiently determinate, much of the apparent difficulty is removed. The most favourable situations for its detection are those in which the skin is highly developed, presenting, like the small intestine, villi (termed papillte) on its free sur- face. The close resemblance between these papilla and the villi of mucous membranes has been observed by many anatomists. The dis- tribution of the vessels within both is essentially the same. Here, then, under the epidermic layer, we might expect to find the basement membrane. I have removed with great care the whole of the epidermis from a thin ver- tical section of such a specimen (and it is better to have previously steeped it in solu- tion of carbonate of potass), and have then examined the outline of the bare papilla with a power of 300 diameters. This outline is sharply defined, and appears to be formed by a homogeneous membrane, enclosing the vascular and nervous contents. This mem- brane I believe to be that which I am now describing, though, as in the case of the intes- tinal villi, I have never been able to isolate it, and thus unequivocally prove its presence. This is a part of the skin which has never been noticed by anatomists on account of its tenuity, Fig. 277. membrane is seen between b b b, bulging epithelial particles. Part of the tubule of a sudoriferous gland from the human axilla, maynijied 320 diameters, A, transverse section ; B, side view of the interior, obtained by bringing the axis of the tubule into focus; a a a, basement membrane ; b b b, epi- thelium ; c c, cavity of the tubule ; d, superficial epithelial particles ; e, deep epithelial particles ; /, a detached superficial epithelial particle, shewing the nucleus and pigmentary granules ; y, its detached nucleus, with a nucleolus.