MICROSCOPE. 346 fatigue of long-continued observation is greatly diminished. Such minutiue may appear too trivial to deserve mention; but no practised microscopist will be slow to acknowledge their value. At the inclination we have mentioned, the departure of the stage from the horizontal position will not be such as to render it neces- sary to confine the objects with more than a slight force, and accordingly they may be moved by the hands with considerable free- dom ; and light objects may be placed upon a slip of glass without any confinement, or co- vered with talc if necessary, and yet be in little danger of falling off it. These are con- veniences which are of more value in practice than they may appear in theory; for it will often be found that the saving of a little time in the adjustment of the microscope is of great importance in the observation of objects which are undergoing change. There are some objects, however, which can only be seen in a vertical microscope, as they require to be viewed in a position nearly or entirely horizontal; such are dissections in water, saline solutions under- going chrystallisation, &c. For other purposes, again, the microscope should be placed hori- zontally, as when the camera lucida is used for drawing or measuring. It ought, therefore, to be made capable of every such variety of position. 4. The last principle on which we shall here dwell is simplicity in the construction and adjustment of every part. Many ingenious mechanical devices have been invented and executed, for the purpose of overcoming dif- ficulties which we cannot but regard as trivial. If all these were combined in one instrument, a degree of complexity would be thereby engendered, which would prevent it from be- ing generally available. Our own experience leads us to the conclusion, that a moderate amount of dexterity in the use of the hands is sufficient to render most of these superfluous; and without such dexterity, no one, even with the most complete mechanical facilities, will ever become a good microscopist. We shall hereafter describe, however, some of those which are in most general use ; premising that we cannot speak from much experience of their applicability, since we have ourselves found no difficulty in doing without them, as we recommend our readers to do. Although a large box, well filled with glittering brass im- plements of various shapes and sizes, may have a very inviting appearance, it will often be found that these are more for show than use, and add to the expense of the instrument in a proportion far exceeding their utility. Among the conveniences of simplicity, the practised microscopist will not fail to recognize the saving of time effected by being able quickly to set up and put away his instrument. Where a numher of parts are to be screwed together before it can be brought into use, interesting objects as well as time are not unfrequently lost; and the same cause will often occasion the instrument to be left exposed to the air and dust, to its great detriment, because time is required to put it away. With those who are not practised in mechanical manipulation, this is especially necessary; indeed we have often known a slight advantage on the side of sim- plicity of arrangement cause an inferior in- strument to be preferred to a superior one. Yet there is, of course, a limit to this simpli- fication ; and it ought never to interfere with due attention to the principles already spe- cified. Before proceeding to notice any of the ordi- nary forms of stands for simple or compound microscopes, we shall make a few remarks on the best means of carrying on a dissection under a magnifying power. The simplest of all means of effecting this, where the object is large and opaque, and a low magnifying power only is requisite, is to fasten it down upon a board, to any part of the edge of which may be affixed, by means of a small clamp, a jointed stem, carrying a socket or cell, into which a lens mounted in the usual manner may be dropped. This stem, being capable of movement in every possible direction, but having also sufficient stiffness in its joints to remain in any position in which it may be placed, appears to us preferable to any other plan of supporting the lens. The object may be illuminated, if necessary, by light condensed through a convex lens, or reflected from a con- cave mirror. If the dissection must be carried on under fluid, the only variation necessary is the use of a shallow trough, instead of a board, which may be filled with water, dilute spirit, or oil of turpentine, as the case requires; to the edge of this trough the clamp may be fixed in the most convenient position; and the bot- tom of it (if of metal) may be covered with a piece of cork, or a layer of resin and bees- wax, for the purpose of receiving the pins necessary to fix the object. Where the object is smaller, and the dissection may be carried on under a higher magnifying power, we can strongly recommend the use of Mr. Slack's dissecting microscope, of which a description and figures may be found in the 49th volume of the Transactions of the Society of Arts.* Dissecting instruments.—-The instruments employed in microscopic dissection must of course vary with the nature and size of the object. The following will, we think, be found most generally useful. Small pointed scalpels. The iris-knife is a convenient size and form for many purposes. Scarpa's curved cataract needle is an instrument which we have found extremely serviceable. Fine scissors, one leg of which should be fixed in a long handle, and the other kept apart from it by a spring, so as to close by the pressure of the finger and to open of itself; the blades should both be pointed and sharpened on a hone; these will * [Mr. Powell, the optician, Clarendon-street, Somcrs' Town, has enlarged and improved con- siderably Slack's dissecting microscope ; and Mr. Ross, of Regent-street, has also on sale a conve- nient form of dissecting microscope, which is deli- neated in the Penny Cyclopedia, ait. ' Micio- scope.'—ED.]