NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Meninges.) 635 The surface of each choroid plexus presents many slight projections or folds resembling villi, in which are contained loops and plexi- form anastomoses of minute vessels, very si- milar to the arrangement of the vessels of the villous processes of the chorion of the ovum, or those of the tufts of the placenta. These vessels are surrounded by an epithelium which has much the appearance of that of serous membranes. Erom the great number of these vessels and from the delicate nature of the epithelial covering which surrounds them, it is plain that the choroid plexuses are well suited either for the purpose of pouring out fluid or of absorbing it. Fig. 364. Side view of villi of the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle in the brain of a Goose, to show the disposition of the bloodvessels. Not to obscure the view of the bloodvessels, the edge of the epithelium only has been shown. a, epithelium ; 6, bloodvessels. (After Valentin.) The epithelium may be best seen by examin- ing the edge of a fold. It becomes very distinct when acted upon by acetic acid. As its particles are very delicate and consist only of a single layer, they are easily detached. The cells of epithelium are most of them six-sided, and contain a clear nucleus, or several minute gra- nules. Valentin states that cilia may be seen playing upon this surface, especially in the embryo. I have observed the peculiar punc- tiform or spiniform formations to which he alludes, which look like the remains of former vibiatile cilia. Velum inter■positum. ( Toile Choroidienne, Vicq dAzyr.)—The choroid plexuses are con- nected to each other by the velum interpositum, which is a triangular fold of pia mater that passes in at the transverse fissure between the upper surface of the tubercula quadrigemina and the posterior reflected portion of the corpus callosum. This process is continuous with the pia mater of the inferior surface of the posterior lobes of the brain, and with that of the superior surface of the cerebellum, and it therefore con- sists of two lamina?; as it passes forwards, it sends downwards a little process which em- braces the pineal body ; it forms the roof of the third ventricle, being interposed between that cavity and the fornix, (hence its name,) and at its sides as well as its apex its continuity with the choroid plexuses may be readily de- monstrated. At its anterior extremity it corre- sponds to the foramen commune anterius. The velum interpositum is best exposed in the dis- section from above downwards by removing carefully in succession the corpus callosum and the fornix. In raising the velum itself, in order to disclose the cavity of the third ventricle, it is necessary to be very careful, as from the in- timate connexion which the pineal body has with it towards its base, that body may be readily disturbed from its position. Choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle— The choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle are two small processes of pia mater united along the median line, presenting the same villous character as those of the lateral ventri- cles. These folds seem as if they had been pushed up into the fourth ventricle by the lower laminre of the inferior vermiform process. Their position may be best seen by opening the fourth ventricle from above, where they will be found lying on each side of that portion of the median lobe of the cerebellum which stops up the inferior extremity of the fourth ventricle. These plexuses are in every respect similar, as- far as regards structure, to the larger ones which are found in the lateral ventricles, and, like them, exhibit a delicate epithelium upon their surface. Upon the centre of each epithe- lium cell Valentin states that a pigment cor- puscule is deposited. (Fig. 365.) Fig. 365. A highly magnified villus of the clwroid plexus of human cerebellum. ( A fter Valentin.) a, the villus ; b, the epithelium cells ; c, the nuclei. These internal processes of the pia mater contain minute crystalline formations, a kind of very fine sand, which, however, is not con- stantly present in all brains. The grains are deposited in the meshes of the vascular plexuses. Sometimes they accumulate in masses so as to be visible to the naked eye or easily recognized by the touch. In general, however, they are microscopic, in form glo- bular, and connect themselves with the minute vascular ramifications like little bunches of grapes. They are found principally in the choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles, and in that portion of the velum interpositum which embraces the pineal body. In the for- mer they are most numerous at that part which was called by the Wenzels glomus, where the choroid plexus turns up from the inferior cornu into the horizontal portion of the lateral ven- tricle.* As regards chemical composition this * See Van Ghert de plexubus choroideis, Utrecht. 1837 ; Valentin, in Soemmering Anat., and