56 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. ordinary occupation, and is at first usually un- accompanied by swelling, or if swelling exist at this early period, it is inconsiderable. There is more pain and less swelling than in the ordi- nary case of scrofulous white swelling. The swelling, too, is different, that in the strumous being more elastic, more of a globular form, and situated at first more at the lower and ante- rior part of the joint around the ligamentum patella;: in the strumous also the ham is sooner filled up. Moreover, the simple chronic ar- thritis of the knee is a disease of adult life, and the strumous of the younger subject. As the simple chronic arthritis of the knee proceeds, the limb wastes somewhat, a preternatural effu- sion of synovial fluid into the joint takes place, and pain on motion becomes so severe as to confine the patient to the house ; he complains of a constant, deep, boring pain, which is usu- ally referred to the inner condyle of the femur or tibia, and is accompanied by some spasmodic starting of the muscles of the limb, by which his sleep is disturbed. When pressure is made on the knee over the situation where uneasiness is experienced, the pain is increased; and the integuments of the affected articulation have a higher temperature than natural. In the early stage of the disease the popliteal space is not filled up. As the inflammatoryaction proceeds, the patient's strength and spirits become ex- hausted by continued pain and confinement; the constitution becomes engaged, suppuration occurs in the interior of the joint, and matter makes its way to the surface, oedema of the instep manifests itself, and the disease now runs very much the same course as does the chronic strumous white swelling, partial dislocation of the tibia outwards or backwards occurring, and amputation becoming necessary to save life. The two following cases may serve as exam- ples of the simple chronic arthritis genu. The first presented us a rare opportunity of witness- ing the anatomical characters of the disease in a very early stage ; the second in the advanced form, as amputation could no longer be deferred with safety. J. M'Cann was admitted into the Richmond Surgical Hospital on the 13th Dec. 1836, for an affection of his left knee-joint. The attack was about six weeks coming on, but he remem- bered that about ten years previously he had fever, and that the left knee-joint was at that time severely visited by inflammation. Since that period, however, he remained well until he got cold, which ended in the present attack of the knee, and at this time no other joint was affected. The joint appeared to be much en- larged when compared with the right and healthy knee; the prominences of the bones were no longer evident; the swelling was soft and fluctuating, and extended up the front of the thigh, but the ham was not in the least filled up ; the knee was slightly flexed, and the ten- dons of the hamstring muscles were remarkably tense ; he referred the pain to the internal side of the joint. Hoping to be released of these symptoms he sought admission into the hospi- tal. He was ordered twenty-four leeches and fomentations to the knee-joint, and to take three times a day a pill containing two grains of calomel and half a grain of opium. On the fourth day of this treatment he complained of scalding when passing urine, and of acid eruc- tations from his stomach. For the latter mag- nesia and lime-water were given. On the fifth day diarrhoea, probably mercurial, set in, which was very severe and did not yield to the treat- ment, which consisted in the administration of an emollient enema containing forty drops of tincture of opium, and of a pill every third hour, containing two grains of acetate of lead and one grain of opium ; and warm fomenta- tions with turpentine to the abdomen. After the fourth pill had been taken the diarrhoea ceased. It is proper to mention that the fore- going symptoms were accompanied at the com- mencement by a good deal of fever of the sthenic type; the patient's face was greatly flushed, his eyes glistened, the lips were Ver- million red, the pulse was one hundred and strong, and there was much increase of heat of the surface. When the diarrhoea ceased, a new phenomenon,hEematuria, presented itself,accom- panied by great pain across the lumbar region, along the course of the ureters, and in the testi- cles. The calls to pass water occurred hourly, and half a pint of urine and blood mixed would pass, which had not any urinous odour. These calls became less frequent, but the fluid passed became more and more red ; his countenance changed, and he had the general symptoms of loss of blood. Added to this his stomach was in a continued state of erethism; he had urgent desire for cold drinks, but nothing, not even cold water, would for one moment remain on his stomach. His countenance was sunken and exsangueous ; his pulse, one hundred and forty, could scarcely be counted. His surface became cold, and he complained of the greatest sense of exhaustion. At this period most urgent singultus set in and added much to his other sufferings. The haematuria continued, the sto- mach rejected every species of nutriment, and medicine failed altogether to relieve his symp- toms. He died exhausted on the fourth day from the diarrhoea setting in, and on the seventh from his admission into hospital. It is remark- able that during the last three days of his illness he did not feel any uneasiness in his knee, and the swelling of the joint had greatly dimi- nished. On a post-mortem examination the kidneys were found much enlarged and friable, with some purpuric spots (petechia; hemorrhagica;) on their surface. The spleen was very small and of a healthy consistence. On opening the bursa beneath the rectus and vasti, it was found to be distended with synovial fluid of the ordinary character; no communication existed hetween this bursa and the knee-joint. When the proper synovial membrane of the joint itself was opened, the quantity of synovial fluid was found to be very scanty. The semi- lunar cartilages were normal, but the articular cartilages which invest the tibia and femur were of a yellowish hue, and here and there appeared softer than natural. In one spot the cartilage covering the convexity of the internal condyle