MUSCULAR MOTION. 522 motor nerves, which are thus made to excite contraction by their immediate and topical action on the muscles. Of these the chief are volition, emotion, and impressions carried by the afferent nerves to the nervous centres and involuntarily reflected thence; but various diseases and injuries of the motor nerves, either at their origin or in their course, and pressure, heat, chemical substances, electricity, gal- vanism, ike. applied to their texture, are to be ranged under the same head. The nature of the change thus induced in the motor nerves is entirely unknown. There seems, however, no ground for believing that it differs with the particular stimulus which induces it, and certainly a clear distinction ought ever to be drawn between it and its exciting cause. The nerves, when this change is induced in them, occasion the muscles to which they are distributed to contract. The stimulus they give is an immediate one, and is termed the vis nervosa or the nervous stimulus of muscle. It acts topically on the muscular fibre. The other immediate stimuli are physi- cal and chemical; they are rarely exerted in the living body, except in the case of the hollow muscles. It has already been stated that trustworthy experiments have lately shown these to be under the influence of motor nerves derived from the spinal marrow, but it seems probable that some at least are normally excited to contract by direct stimulation, to one form of which, that of stretching or distension, they are peculiarly liable from their arrangement as investments to cavities. All muscles, however, may be made to contract by physical and chemical stimuli applied to their fibres. The effects of water and mechanical pressure as immediate stimuli have been already alluded to. Chemical substances may be seen to act similarly, if they be not so powerful as to destroy the texture of the part; and it is pro- bable that electrical forces have a like agency. An interesting phenomenon has been pointed out by Dr. Stokes,* which seems to show very clearly that contractions of voluntary muscles may be excited by an immediate stimulus in the living body. In various cases of phthisis, and in others, particularly those attended with emaciation, a sharp tap with the fingers on any muscular part is instantly followed by a con- traction, evidenced by the rise of a defined firm swelling at the point struck, enduring several seconds before it gradually subsides. This is often so prominent as to throw a shadow along the skin, and for the moment it might almost be mistaken for a solid tumour. That it is limited to the point struck is full proof of its being a direct effect of the irritation, and not produced through the intervention of nerves; for a contraction excited in the latter mode would be diffused over the part to which the nervous twigs irritated were supplied, and would therefore frequently extend to some dis- tance. c. On the visible changes occurring in muscle * On Diseases of the Chest, p. 397. See also Dr. Guy, in the new edition of Hooper's Phy- sician's Vdrte Mecum, p. 92. during contraction.—1. Of the changes essential to the act.—A muscle in action becomes shorter and thicker, and it is well ascertained by experiments often repeated that these changes in its relative dimensions are accurately pro- portioned to one another. The whole organ neither gains nor loses in bulk. What is true of the organ is true of the tissue—in contraction it increases in diame- ter and shortens in a corresponding degree. This is all that can be said in general respect- ing the visible features of this remarkable phenomenon. Late investigations, instead of explaining the manner in which contraction is effected, by shewing its dependence on forces previously understood, have only served to point out the inadequacy of the coarse and mechanical hypotheses which physiologists have been so prone to confide in, and to make it more than probable that they must ever be content to repose upon the fact above stated as the simplest which the most refined microsco- pical analysis can ever disclose. The intimate connexion between the nerves and muscles, both in rest and action, and the exquisite organization displayed in the structure of those muscles which are most quick and energetic in their movements, have powerfully contributed to excite the hope that a clue to the discovery of the physical mechanism of con- traction would one day be found. It may be thought, therefore, a subject of disappointment that when at length a close insight into its visible characters has been obtained, and the minutest particles which the best instruments can discern have been brought under observa- tion during their state of activity, the only change that can be appreciated in them is that which was long ago known by accurate experi- ment to occur in the aggregate mass, viz. that they become shorter and thicker. All muscle, after systemic death or after removal from the body, undergoes a contraction, termed the rigor mortis, which has received much attention in all that relates to the mode of its approach, its course and duration, and the practical bearings it presents. (See Death.) This phenomenon may be varied by the appli- cation of stimuli, and is eminently suited for the display of the minute changes occurring in muscle during its active state. The muscle with striped fibres is peculiarly adapted for the display of these changes; for its texture not being homogeneous, but marked throughout with perfect regularity into spaces or particles so minute as to require to be very highly magnified before they can be even seen at all, the anatomist is provided with the means of detecting movements, which, without this circumstance, must have remained concealed. It is accordingly by the study of this variety of the tissue that the results just alluded to have been obtained. When a fragment retaining its contractility is torn up into its elementary fibres, these are seen to undergo a slow movement at certain points, especially where they have suffered violence, as at their broken extremities. This movement consists of a shortening and thicken-