NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Encephalon.) 677 The direction of the long axis of the third ventricle is obliquely downwards and back- wards. Its anterior extremity being on a higher plane than its posterior, is therefore likewise superior. Pineal gland.—We may here conveniently notice the position and connections of the pineal gland. This body, rendered famous by the vague theory of Des Cartes, which viewed it as the chief source of nervous power, is placed just behind the third ventricle, resting in a superficial groove which passes along the median line between the corpora quadrige- mina. It is heart-shaped, and of a grey co- lour. Its apex is directed backwards and downwards, and its base forwards and up- wards. A process from the deep layer of the velum interpositum envelopes it and serves to retain it in its place. From each angle of its base there passes off a band of white matter which adheres to the inner surface of each optic thalamus. These processes serve to con- nect the pineal body to the optic thalami. They are called the peduncles of the pineal gland, also liubena-. In general they are two in number, one for each optic thalamus. They may be traced forwards as far as the anterior pillars of the fornix. Posteriorly these pro- cesses are connected along the median line by some white fibres which adhere to the base of the pineal gland, as well as to the posterior commissure beneath, and which seem to form part of the system of fibres belonging to that commissure. A pair of small bands sometimes pass off from these fibres, along the optic thalami, parallel to the peduncles above described. It appears, then, that the pineal gland has no other connexion with the brain than that which these habente or peduncles secure for it; other- wise this body might more appropriately be regarded as an appendage to the pia mater, in which it is involved, and from which it derives its nutrition. Grains of sand, similar in every respect to those previously described (p. 635) as con- nected with the internal processes of the pia mater, are found in the pineal body in a large proportion of instances in the adult. They seem to be accumulated as it were in a cavity which is situate towards its base. Hence So- emmering gave to this collection of sabulous matter the name acervulus. When, however, the sand is abundant, it may be found upon the surface as well as in the centre. The anterior commissure.— In examining the third ventricle, a rounded cord of very pure white matter is seen through the interval which is left by the divergence of the anterior pillars of the fornix in their descent to the base of the brain. This band is transverse, and appears to form a tangent to the convex border of those pillars. It may be traced outwards on either side through the anterior extremities of the corpora striata into the white substance of the middle lobes of the brain. A very little dis- section is required to expose this cord in its entire extent. It seems placed in a canal hol- lowed in the cerebral matter. When exposed, its surface is perfectly smooth, indicating that fibres do not pass from it to the wall of the canal in which it lies. Examined in its whole extent, it presents the form of a curve with an- terior convexity, and becomes gradually flat- tened and expanded towards each extremity, its component fibres becoming divergent and mingling with the white substance of that por- tion of the brain. This system of fibres possesses the characters of a commissure or bond of connection between symmetrical portions of the brain on either side of the median plane as distinctly as the corpus callosum itself. The soft commissure.—The cavity of the third ventricle is partly occupied by a lamina of a light grey matter, which extends between the optic thalami of opposite sides. It forms a transverse horizontal plane dividing the ven- tricle into two portions, one above, the other below it. Sometimes it is divided and disposed as two planes. There is but little power of cohe- sion between its particles, so that in the recent state the separation of the thalami in the neces- sary manipulations will frequently cause its rupture. Hence the adjunct " soft" is appro- priately applied to it, and by its connecting the thalami of opposite sides, this structure may be ranked with the other commissures. It does not extend throughout the entire length of the ventricle: both its anterior and posteiior mar- gins are concave and leave an open space be- tween each extremity of the ventricle. Thus far our examination includes the topo- graphical anatomy of the cerebrum proper. The pineal body, indeed, scarcely lies within the confines of that segment of the encephalon, but from its internal relation to the third ven- tricle and the optic thalami, it must be included in the description of those parts. This body rests on the upper surface of that segment of the brain which lies intermediate to the ce- rebrum, cerebellum, and medulla oblongata, namely, the mesocephale. And we shall now proceed to a brief notice of this part and its connection to the other segments. The mesocephale.—Tour eminences are seen immediately behind the third ventricle. A transverse furrow separates them into an anterior and a posterior pair, and a longitudinal furrow along the median line divides the right and left pair from each other. The pineal body rests in the anterior extremity of the lon- gitudinal depressfon. The anterior pair have been long named the nates, the posterior the testes. In the human subject the former are the larger. In the inferior mammalia these bodies are much more highly developed than in man, and exhibit a more marked difference of size. The posterior of the corpora quadrigemina are apparently connected to the cerebellum by two columns of white matter, one of which passes into the central white substance of each cerebellar hemisphere. These are the processus cerebelli ad testes. They enter into the for- mation of the crura cerebelli. Each of them forms the superior layer of the cms cerebelli of its own side.