720 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. Abnormal Anatomy.) mentary parts of the organ, has yet to be deter- mined by microscopical examination. It is most probable that the disease consists not merely in an increased, but also in a per- verted nutrition, and that new material is depo- sited between or in the proper anatomical ele- ments of the brain. In some instances there is, along with the signs of increased nutrition in the brain,evidence of a similar condition of the cranial walls. The bones of the skull are, in such cases, much thicker than usual. In others, however, the bones seem to yield under the pressure from within, and they become thin, and more or less transparent in parts. There appear to be two classes of cases in which an hypertrophic state of brain occurs. In one class the functions are carried on well, and the only sign of the morbid change is derived from the undue enlargement of the head, which becomes almost too large for the body, and too heavy for the muscles of the neck to support conveniently; in the other there may or may not be enlargement of the head, but there are marks of cerebral disturbance in more or less dullness of intellect, and in the frequent re- currence of epileptic fits. Dr. Watson has placed upon record two in- stances of this enlargement of the brain's sub- stance which are highly interesting and will serve to illustrate the varieties above alluded to. One case was that of a young woman at. 19. Her countenance was sallow, lips pale. She complained of pain in her chest and limbs, of great and increasing debility and wasting, and of nightly perspirations, and she was subject to attacks of epilepsy. She died in a prolonged epi- leptic paroxysm. The following appearances were observed at the post-mortem examination. " When the surface of the brain was exposed by the removal of the skull-cap and dura mater, it was observed that the convolutions were re- markably flattened, so that the little furrows be- tween them were nearly effaced, and the sur- face of the arachnoid membrane was perfectly dry. These are not very unusual, although they are unnatural appearances. I had often seen such before; and I ventured to say we should find some cause of strong pressure in the central part of the brain, effusion of serum into the ventricles, or a large extravasation of blood. But to my great surprise, and much to the discredit of my prophecy, we found nothing of the kind. The ventricles were even smaller than natural, and contained scarcely any moisture. The skull-cap was afterwards exa- mined, and the bone was found to be uncom- monly thick, dense, and heavy; and its inner surface without being rough was very irregular." The state of the bloodvessels of the brain was not noticed. It is to be regretted likewise that the weight of the brain has not been stated, for it is obvious that a gradual and pretty uniform diminution of the cranial cavity by the thick- ening of the bone might have produced the flat- tening and condensation of the brain described. A second case recorded by Dr. Watson oc- curred in the practice of the late Dr.Sweatman. The patient was a little boy two years old ; his head had been gradually increasing from the age of six months until it had become so large as to prevent the child from continuing long in the upright posture. The boy was active and lively although thin. He never had any con- vulsion, but occasionally seemed uneasy, and then would relieve himself by laying his head upon a chair. He had never squinted, nor was he subject to drowsiness or startings during sleep, and his pupils contracted naturally. His appetite was good, and all the animal functions were properly performed. The head measured from ear to ear twelve inches, from the super- ciliary ridges to the occipital thirteen inches, and in circumference twenty-one inches. The brain was sound. The convolutions were dis- tinct and retained their shape. The surfaces of the medullary matter, exposed by different sections, presented very unusual vascularity.* In this case the yielding of the cranial walls prevented compression of the brain, whilst it admitted of the growth of the organ within. Hence, no doubt, the absence of any symptoms of compressed or irritated brain. Hypertrophy of the brain sometimes coexists with hydrocephalus, and is congenital, and prevents by the great size of the organ the de- velopement of the cranial bones. (Otto, Ro- kitansky.) Hypertrophy may affect only particular parts of the brain, as the optic thalami, the pons, and the medulla oblongata, instances of which have been placed on record. Atrophy of the brain.—At the advanced periods of life we generally meet with more or less of wasting of the brain, resulting from a change in the nutrition of that organ which it experiences in common with all other organs, and which is only the natural result of the pro- gress of age. It is remarkable, however, how much more of this senile atrophy is observed in some individuals than in others. In cases of epilepsy of long standing I have invariably noticed wasting of the brain, affect- ing chiefly the convolutions, or sometimes the corpora striata, optic thalami, &c. The brain wastes likewise in cases of long-continued intemperance, the patient generally dying of delirium tremens. In such instances all parts of the brain waste, but the convolutions expe- rience the most marked change. The following are the marks of an atrophied state of brain. There is a considerable quantity of fluid in the subarachnoid cavity, indicating an increase in the interval between the surface of the brain and the interior of the skull. The brain has a shrunk appearance. Its texture feels firm, and in cutting the knife grates against it as in cutting cartilage. In point of colour the grey matter is frequently extremely pale, and scarcely to be distinguished from the adja- cent white substance; in some instances, how- ever, it is of a dark brownish hue. In all cases the layer of grey matter which covers the convolution is much less deep than is natural. The convolutions are evidently shrunk, and the sulci between them have greatly increased * Lectures on the Practice of Physic, vol. i.