99 LACRYMAL ORGANS. of the palatine branch of the upper jaw. Cloquet* calls this pouch intermaxillary sinus or sac. In venomous serpents, the lacrymal canal opens, as in the mammifera, in the ex- ternal wall of the nasal fossae. There is no lacrymal apparatus in fishes. In the description of the lacrymal gland in man, the intimate structure of it in the lower animals has been already alluded to. The re- mark of Miiller may be repeated here, that similar glands have often a perfectly different structure in different animals ; of which the lacrymal gland examined in the chelonia, birds, and mammifera affords an example. The lacrymal bone contributes to separate the orbit from the cavity of the nose. It is wanting in certain mammifera, as the phocse and most cetacea. It is enormously developed, on the contrary, in certain others, as the giraffe, stag, &c. It exists also in birds, and forms in them often the greatest part of the inferior margin of the orbit. In reptiles, its existence is variable. It is found in crocodiles. It is absent in the chelonia, ophidia, and batrachia. It is also wanting in fishes, unless the first infra-orbital be assumed as analogous to it. In ruminating animals, remarkably so in deers and antelopes, the infra-orbital fossa of the su- perior maxillary bone is very large, and is lined by a reflection of the skin, more or less in the form of a sac. The skin, which has assumed the characters of a mucous membrane, contains in its substance numerous follicles,which secrete a thick blackish unctuous humour—a secretion which appears to have some relation with the sexual function. This matter has been impro- perly called tears, hence the French name larmiers of the infra-orbital glandular sacs of ruminants. In the sheep these organs are re- presented by a mere fissure extending on the side of the nose from the nasal canthus. Meckel compares to this structure the foveas in the face, behind the nostrils, of several poi- sonous serpents, such as the rattle-snake ; but the membrane lining these parts scarcely ap- pears to secrete anything. The temporal gland of the elephant seems to be of the same nature as the infra-orbital glandular sacs of rumi- nants. Development of the accessory parts of the ej/e.f—The accessory parts of the eye appear subsequently to the eyeball, and, as is the case with the accessory parts of the organ of hearing in reference to the labyrinth or ear-bulb, have quite a separate and distinct origin from it. That the development of the accessory parts of the eye is independent of that of the eyeball is confirmed by the anomalous conformation which the organ has been sometimes found to present; thus Malacarne relates a case in which the eye- balls, their nerves and muscles were wanting, whilst the lacrymal apparatus and eyelids were regularly developed. Up to the eighth week the external integu- * Op. cit. t Burdach, Die Physiologie, als Erfahrungs- wissenschaft, &c. and Valentin, Entwickelungs- gescbkhte. ment passes quite smoothly over the eyeball. The conjunctiva is then partitioned off by the formation of a linear fold, which, in the ninth week, surrounds the anterior surface of the eyeball like a small ring. The upper and lower parts of the fold progressively enlarge until they meet each other over the eyeball, which takes place about the twelfth week. The progress of the development of the eye- lids is sometimes arrested, so that mere folds of skin have been found occupying their places, or, development having proceeded a little further, the eyelids have been found presenting their regular conformation indeed, but too short to cover the eyeball and incapable of motion. Having met, the edges of the eyelids ad- here by the extension of the epidermis from the one to the other. In the human embryo the adhesion between the eyelids by the exten- sion of the skin ceases towards the latter months, but the edges continue sticking together by the Meibomian secretion until the period of birth. In the young of several of the mammi- fera, as the carnivora and rodents, the eyelids continue closed for some time after birth— from one to two weeks. In birds, even in the embryo state, the eyelids never unite. Sometimes adhesion between the eyelids in the human subject is found at birth, constitut- ing what is called congenitalanchyloblepharon ; and this may be either immediate or by the intervention of a membranous structure. The closure of the pupil by the pupillary membrane in the fcetus corresponds to the ad- hesion of the eyelids to each other at that period. According to Meckel the pupillary membrane continues entire in animals born blind, as it is expressed, as long as the eyelids remain closed. The tarsal cartilages first appear distinctly in the fifth month ; and at birth, that of the up- per is perfectly developed. The eyelashes first appear free about the sixth month. The lacrymal gland is already evident in the last half of the fourth month. The inner canthus of the eye is at first more elongated than it is afterwards. On the first appearance of the eyelids, Burdach tells us, the lacrymal caruncle presents itself; and at the inner angle a diverticulum of the conjunctiva sinks down to the oro-nasal cavity as the commencement of the lacrymal sac and nasal duct. The iacrymal points project very much in the fifth month, and in the seventh are somewhat more retracted. The lacrymal apparatus in general, as also the Meibomian follicles, are proportionably much developed at an early period. Bibliography.—See that of article Eye and the several works referred to in the course of this. The most complete, indeed, so far as 1 know, the only inonography, is that of John Chris- tian Rosenmuller, " Partium externarum oculi ho. mani imprimis organorum lacrymalium descriptio anatomiea, iconibus illustrata." Lipsiae, 1810. In this will be found a catalogue raisonne of all pre- ceding works bearing on the subject. ( T. Wharton Jones.) ii 2