457 MOTION. length, will be nearly three times greater. The greatest flexion of the trunk is in the plane of its mesial section, and results chiefly from the cervical and lumbar vertebra. According to Weber, its greatest twisting or torsion hori- zontally is deiived from the dorsal region. The ang'es of flexion of the head and trunk in two cases were as follows : Crown of the head Sternum and Sum of the and sternum. sacrum. two. 1 147° 83° 230o 2 175° 85° 260° Mean. .101° 84° 245° Of these two eases nearly two-thirds of 245° are accomplished by the head and neck, and one- third only by the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae. The curved form of the spine, somewhat re- sembling an italic J\ instead of being a cause of weakness, is, on the contrary, a source of strength and security; for forces acting verti- cally upon it are transmitted obliquely, thus diminishing their mechanical effect ; and the elasticity of the intervertebral tissue prevents the shock to which the bones would otherwise be subjected at every step in walking. With respect to the power of the vertebral column to sustain weight, if we regard it in conse- quence of its form and elastic intervertebral substance as a spr.ng witli small flexuies, it is capable of bearing a greater weight than if it were straight, in the proportion of the square of the number of curves plus one to unity ; that is, a weight sixteen times as great. Consi- dered as a whole, the vertebral column repre- sents a lever of the third order, of which the fulcrum is in the axis of the articulation of the fifth lumbar vertebra with the sacrum : the power is the mass of muscles inserted into the sides of the vertebrae; and the resistance, the weight of the head, soft parts of the neck, the thorax, and part of the abdomen.i! Jn standing erect, the direction of the verte- bral column is perpendicular to the horizon. Weber found, by means of plumb-lines let fall on each side opposite the centre of the heads of the femurs on which the trunk is balanced in the erect position, that the transverse vertical plane intersected both ends of the spine, pass- ing through the atlanto-occipital articulation above and the sacro-lumbar below; he found also lying in the same plane the two mastoid processes and the centres of the ankle and knee joints. Viewed separately, each vertebra represents a lever of the first order, whose fulcrum is the next vertebra, on which it rests; the power and resistance are the muscles acting upon it in different points alternately. The spinal column of animals is a flexible lever, destined to move and support a multitude of organs, and to con- nect the more distant parts of the skeleton with each other. We have nothing in the structure of locomotive or other machines bearing the least resemblance to its mechanism ; and if, w ith Sir C. Bell, we compare it to the mast of a * Vide Majcndie Phys., by Dr. Milligan, p. 175. ship, it will tend only (as Dr. Arnott has alrea- dy pointed out) to convey an erroneous impres- sion, both of its stiucture and its functions. In standing, the vertebral column transmits the weight of the organs appended to or sup- ported by it by means of the sacrum to the pelvis. The pelvis is a lever of theirs* order, having itsjutcrum in the ilio-femoral articula- tions on the heads of the femurs ; the power and resistance are the muscles acting anteriorly and posteriorly to the axis of rotation. In the erect position of the trunk the pelvis is inclined to the direction of the vertebral co- lumn. The angles, both of the superior and inferior margins, have been measured by Nae- gele and Weber. According to the former, the mean angle of inclination of the superior mar- gin to the horizon is 60°, and to the vertebral column 150°. The inclination of the inferior margin with the horizon 11°, and with the ver- tebral column 101°. The angle which the pelvis forms with the vertebral column permits the femurs to extend farther backwards, and to increase their range of oscillation. The magni- tude of the transverse diameter of the ring of the pelvis determines the distance of the heads of the femurs from each other, and throws the thighs sufficiently apart, to prevent their friction upon each other in walking. The pelvis can ro- tate only on an axis perpendicular to the plane of the mesial section, when the body rests equally on both legs, but can turn horizontally upon the heads of either femur whilst the body rests on one leg. In standing, the pelvis is kept in equilibrio by several forces. The weight of the abdominal viscera, lying anterior to its axis of rotation upon the femur, tends to depress the pubes, and rotate the pelvis forward, while the weight of the vertebral column, acting pos- terior to that axis, tends to swing it back- wards. The weight of the vertebral column prepon- derates over the parts lying anterior to the axis on which the pelvis rotates, and consequently would require a considerable expenditure of muscular action to keep it in equilibrio on the femurs, but the obliquity of the vertical axis of the pelvis to that of the vertebral column throws the resultant of all the forces, acting downwards upon it, near the axis of rotation, which tends to preserve the balance; added to which, the muscles which draw the ver- tebral column backwards, having one of their points of insertion in the sacro-iliac section of the pelvis, tend to elevate it, and to neu- tralize their action on the vertebrae in an opposite direction. The principal agents in keeping the pelvis in equilibrio are the pow- erful muscles acting between it and the thigh. The pelvis receives the whole weight of the trunk and superposed organs, and transmits it to the heads of the femurs. It has two axes of motion, one of which is on the last vertebra, and the other in the ilio-femoral articulation ; in both cases it acts as a lever of the first order. The legs.—The leg moves by means of three joints, namely, the ilio-femoral, the knee, and the ankle. In the erect posture the first of these allows the leg to move only forwards, the