424 MOTION. winged insects, so as to lie above the centre of gravity. According to Dr. Derliam, if either a poiser or winglet be cut off, the insect flies as if one side overbalanced the other, till it falls to the ground ; and if both be removed, it flies unsteadily. Shelver states that the removal of either winglets or poisers deprived the insect of the power of flight altogether. The pneumatic pressure which retains them inverted to the ceilings of rooms, gives them a position favour- able for flying off instantaneously, the centre of gravity being below the articulation of the wings, enabling them to regain the pendant position of the trunk in flight. In the crane fly the centre of gravity is ad- justed, and the direction of flight directed by its long legs ; the two fore legs being extended forwards, and the four hind legs backwards. According to Kirby, the one represents the prow, the other the stern of a ship. The velo- city of the house, and large flesh flies (Muscae domestica et vomitoria) appears to be from five to six feet in a second, or about four miles in an hour; but if favoured by the wind, they are seen flying round the ears of horses when tra- velling at the rate of from ten to twelve miles in an hour.* The following table presents at one view the proportions of the areas of the wings in square inches to their weight in giains of various spe- cies of insects which have been already de- scribed in the text. Order. CoLEOPTERA ., Hymenoptera DlPTERA Lepidoptera . Neuroptera . Species. Lucanus cervus Bombus Ophion luteus Musca vomitoria Pontia brassicoe Triphoena pronuba ... 7Eshna maculatissima Area of Wings in square Incites. 1.2527126 0.366 0.2644 0.083333 or ^... 2.50 2 6026 3.26408 Weight of Body in Grains. 40. 6.2. 0.5. 0.8025. 1.525. 8.545. 14. By the help of this table we are enabled to compare the proportions of the area of the wing- to the weight of the insect in different orders, and to estimate the relation between these pro- portions and the absolute powers of flight, when the latter have been ascertained by expe- riment. If the velocity and power of suspension varied in insects precisely in the same ratio as the areas of the wings to the weight of their bodies, we should be enabled to compare with tolerable accuracy the relative powers of the flight of in- sects from data similar to the preceding, but there are several other mechanical and physio- logical conditions involved; such as the ratio of the force of the muscles to the areas of the wings, and the figure and structure of the latter. The Lepidoptera which have the greatest surface of wing in proportion to their weight, should surpass all other insects in power of flight, yet the diurnal section at least yield to the Libellulae in velocity, if not in the duration of their suspension in the air. From the pre- ceding data we conclude, that to render a man, whose weight is 150 pounds, capable of sus- pending himself in the air by the assistance of artificial wings, with the same facility as in- sects, would require an extent of surface be- yond the control of his muscular force, and consequently that the act is impossible. Flight of Birds. — In the organization of birds, we observe that many parts common to other animals are modified, the power of the muscular system is increased, and new forms of matter are introduced to confer on them the power of flight. The bulk of birds is less than that of quadrupeds of equal strength, and owing to many of their bones being per- meated with air, and their skin clothed with feathers, their specific gravity, and conse- quently the demand on their muscular power are diminished.f Instead of the cylindrical form observed in animals which move ex- clusively on solids, the anterior extremity of birds is expanded into a triangular surface, of which the apex is the distal, and the base is the proximal section of the wing in reference to the axis of rotation. The arm is articulated to the trunk by a ball and socket joint, permitting all the freedom of motion necessary for flight, whilst in consequence of the axes of motion in thegyngli- moid joints of the fore arm being directed either perpendicularly or obliquely to the ascent and descent of the wing, it is prevented from yield- ing to the resistance of the air during elevation and depression, and is more conveniently folded on itself during repose. The surface of the wings may be increased or diminished by abduction and adduction, in consequence of which the resistance of the air to their motion, may be proportionally varied in the up and down strokes. The amount of this resistance is also varied by the surface of the wing being convex above, and concave below. The feathers are moreover provided with a curious me- chanism by which the barbules lock into each other, so as to unite all the parts of the vane, and present a continuous surface to the air. The ten primary and the secondary feathers, which have the greatest leverage, are inserted into the arm and fore-arm, and directed so as to produce the greatest surface of wing * See Kirby and Spence. vol. ii. p. 357. t 1. The Pelicanus onocrotalus is five feet in length, but its skeleton weighs only twenty-three ounces, whilst the whole animal weighs twenty-five pounds. See Roget's Bridg. Treat, vol. i. p. 490. 2. The skeleton of the Carrion Crow when dry weighs only twenty-three grains. Jaquamin, An. Sci. Nat. series 2, 11, p. 2718. 3. Many entire Humming Birds weigh only one- eighth oi' au ounce,, or one drachm.