18 INSTINCT. cause, of the various congregations of birds that we daily witness, and of the varying habits which they then exhibit—crows, e. g.. herons, and many water birds, roosting and bringing forth their young in large irregular societies; the crows, besides, assembling at particular hours of the day, at all seasons ; some of the genus Parus, particularly the great and long-tailed titmouse, feeding in small flocks at all seasons ;—plovers and lapwings keeping separate during the season of hatching and rearing their offspring, but assembling in flocks after their young have attained matu- rity;—most of the birds of this country in the depth of winter associating in flocks much greater than can be necessary for the sake of warmth ;—the hen chaffinches, and perhaps the females of other birds, congregating separately; —many of these flocks consisting of multi- tudes moving quite irregularly, but all of them having apparently some means of intercom- munication or agreement;—some of them, as the starlings, performing very singular evo- lutions in concert; and many, as wild geese and other water-birds, always showing the dis- position to fly in regular lines. The greatest of all the congregations of birds are those of the migrating pigeons in America, described by Audubon, as forming clouds which pass over the whole extent of a town for several hours together, and as settling on ex- tensive districts of the woods in such multi- tudes as to cause much devastation among the branches. But the most extraordinary of all the asso- ciations of animals are those which have re- ceived the title of the perfect societies of in- sects,—the bees, wasps, hornets and ants in the order of Hymenoptera, and the white ants or termites, in that of Neuroptera. The most important facts as to them seem to have been ascertained, partly by numerous former ob- servers, but chiefly by the Ilubers, Latreille, and others in the present age. The essential peculiarity of these associations of insects appears to be the complete sepa- ration of the males and females, on whom the propagation of the species depends, from the working members of the communities, by whom the habitations are constructed, and who pro- cure food both for the young and for the more perfect insects. In the case of the bees, the only prolific female is the queen-bee; the males are the drones ; the working bees, constituting the mass of the community, are sterile females, and the larva; and pupav are confined to the cells and helpless; the ants appear to differ from these only in the perfect females being much more numerous (only a few, however, being retained in each ant-hill); but the termites differ, in the larva? and even the pupa? being working members, the males and females, when brought to perfection, always wandering abroad, and one of each sex in the perfect state only existing in each nest, being in fact forcibly detained there. Among these animals there is also a separate class, believed to be analogous to the working bees, i. e. to be sterile females, larger than the labourers, and which are thought to act exclu- sively as the soldiers of the community,—the smaller working ants (larva) always disap- pearing, and these larger and fiercer animals shewing themselves, when any of the works are attacked.* These associations differ from all others existing among animals, in the extraordinary instinct of respect and devotion shewn by the working members to the impregnated female,— single in each swarm of bees, and in each nest of termites, arid few in number in each nest of ants,—and with this instinct most of their other peculiarities seem to be connected. But it is justly observed by Mr. Spence, that if we suppose all the labours of the bees and the ants to be guided by instincts, we must ne- cessarily attribute to these animals a much greater number and variety of instinctive pro- pensities, and more extraordinary modifications of them to suit varying circumstances of their condition, than to any of what are usually called the higher animals. " In the common duck, one instinct leads it at its birth from the egg to rush to the water ; another to seek its proper food ; a third to pair witli its mate; a fourth to form a nest; a fifth to sit upon its eggs till hatched; a sixth to assist the young ducklings in extricating them- selves from the shell ; and a seventh to defend them when in danger until able to provide for themselves : and it would not be easy as far as my knowledge extends, to add many more instinctive actions to the enumeration, or to adduce many specimens of the superior classes of animals endowed with a greater number. " But how vastly more manifold are the instincts of the majority of insects! " As the most striking example of the whole, I shall select the hive-bee,—begging you to bear in mind that I do not mean to include those exhibited by the queen, the drones, or even those of the workers, termed by Huber cirieres (wax-makers); but only to enumerate those presented by that portion of the workers, termed by Huber nourrices or petites abeilles, upon whom, with the exception of making wax, laying the foundation of the cells, and col- lecting honey for being stored, the principal labours of the hive devolve. " By one instinct bees are directed to send out scouts previously to their swarming in search of a suitable abode; and by another to rush out of the hive after the queen that leads forth the swarm, and follow wherever she bends her course. Having taken possession of their new abode, whether of their own selection or prepared for them by the hand of man, a third instinct teaches them to cleanse it from all im- purities ; a fourth to collect propolis, and with it to stop up every crevice except the entrance: a fifth to ventilate the hive for preserving the purity of the air; and a sixth to keep a con- stant guard at the door. " In constructing the houses and streets of their new city, or the cells and combs, there are probably several distinct instincts exercised ; * See Spence and Kirby, vol. ii. p. 39.