304 MARSUPIALIA. Table of the length of the intestinal canal as compared with the body. SPECIES. Body from snout to vent. Intestinal canal with ccecura. Small intestines. Large intestines. Coec urn. Ft. Inch. Ft. Inch. Ft. Inch. Ft. Inch. Ft. Inch. Thalacynus Harrisii . 3 4 9 8 P/iascogaleJiavipes . . 0 5 0 14 Dasyurus macrurus . Perameles nasuta . . . 1 4 5 . 0 1 4 3 5 2 5 0 9 0 3 Didelphys Philander. 0 9 3 5 1 11 1 2J 0 4 Petuuruspygmtcus . . 0 0 6f 0 5 0 Of 0 1 Phalangista vulpina . 1 8 24 10 11 0 9 0 4 10 s 1 7 18 8 9 9 6 10 2 1 P/uiscolarctos J'uscus . 1 11 24 0 7 8 10 5 6 5 Hypsiprymnus setosus 1 0 5 0 2 5 2 6 0 2 Macropus major . . . 3 3 32 0 22 0 9 0 1 8 Phascolomys Vombutus 2 6 25 6 11 3 14 2 0 It Salivary glands.—These glands in the Car- nivorous Dasyures consist of a small parotid and a large submaxillary gland on each side. I searched expressly, but in vain, for the zygo- matic gland ; the Dasyures do not agree with the dogs in having these glands. They have no sublingual gland. The submaxillary gland is placed in front of the neck, so that its duct passes on the dermal side of the tendon of the biventer maxillae, and terminates half an inch from the symphysis menti. There is a thick row of labial glands along the lower lip. The Opos- sums and Bandicoots present a similar salivary system. In the Phalangista vulpina there is a sub- lingual gland on each side of a firm texture, about one inch in length and three lines broad; a roundish submaxillary gland about the size of a hazel-nut; and abroad and flat parotid, larger than in the Entomophagous or Sarco- phagous Marsupials. The parotid glands are relatively larger in the Koala, in which the duct takes the usual course over the masseter and enters the mouth opposite the third true molar, counting back- wards. In the Wombat I found the parotid glands very thin, situated upon both the outer and inner side of the bioad posterior portion of the lower jaw; the duct passed directly upwards and outwards to the insertion of the sterno- cleido-mastoideus; here it was buried in the cellular substance anterior to that muscle, then turned over the ramus of the jaw, and, pur- suing a somewhat tortuous course over the masseter, entered the mouth just anterior to the edge of the buccinator. The submaxillary glands were each about the size of a walnut; their ducts terminated as usual on each side of the frsenum lingua?. * These admeasurements were obligingly com- municated to me by my friend Mr. Hobson, of HobartTown, Van Pieman's Land, and were taken from an animal killed in the wild state. I subjoin the admeasurements of an individual of the same species which died after a year's confinement in the Zoological Gardens : there is a considerable diffe- rence in the length of the intestinal canal and In the great Kangaroo the parotid is very large, extending from below the auditory mea- tus three or four inches down the neck. In the Hypsiprymnus it reaches as far as the cla- vicle. In both cases this gland is separated from the submaxillary gland by the submaxil- lary vein. The tonsils are small in all the Marsupials, but are not represented in the carnivorous spe- cies, as in the Placental Ferae, by simple glan- dular pouches at the sides of the fauces; for example, they consist of an oblong glandular body on each side in the Dasyurus macrurus. The liver.—The liver is subdivided into many lobes in all the Marsupial genera. It is relatively largest in the burrowing Wombat and carnivorous Dasyure; relatively smallest in the graminivorous Kangaroo, in which it is situated, as in the placental Ruminants, en- tirely to the right of the mesial plane. The small or Spigelian lobe, which fits into the lesser curve of the stomach, is given off from the left lobe of the liver in the Kangaroos, but from the right in most other Marsupials ; the difference just noticed in the Kangaroo depends on the peculiar disposition of its remarkable stomach. In the Koala the under surface of the liver (fig- 130) is singularly sculptured and subdi- vided into thirty or forty lobules; this condition is presented in a minor degree in the liver of the Ursine Dasyure. In a long-tailed Dasyure, which weighed 3 lbs. 8£ oz., the liver weighed 3£ oz. avoir- dupoise. The gall-bladder is present in all the Marsu- pials, and is generally of large size and loosely lodged in a deep cleft of the cystic lobe. In the Opossum it generally perforates that lobe, and the fundus appears at a round opening on especially of the coecum ; and it may be allowable to speculate upon the influence which difference of diet and confinement may have had in producing this difference. Mr. Martin's admeasurements of another Pfial. Vulpina agree more nearly with mine. —See Zool. Proceedings, 1837. t The vermiform process measures two inches in length.