260 MARSUPIALIA. fications, according to which the species may be arranged into gressorial, saltatory, and scan- sorial groups. a. Gressoria. - Genus MYRMECOBIUS. The only known existing representative of this family is the animal described by Mr. Waterhouse, which constitutes the type of his genus Myrmecobius, and of which the following is the remarkable dental formula. (Fig. 83.) Fig. 83. Myrmecobius fasciatus. _ . 4—4 1—1 Incisors > canines ^ ;; praemolars 3—3 6—6 —-; molars ——: = 54. From this formula it will be seen that the number of molars, eighteen in both jaws, ex- ceeds that of any other known existing mar- supial, and nearly approaches the peculiar dental formula of the extinct Thylacotherium,* and that which characterizes some of the ex- isting Armadillos. The resemblance to the genus Dasypus is further carried out in the small size of the molar teeth, their separation from each other by slight interspaces, and their implantation in sockets, which are not formed upon a well-developed alveolar ridge or process. The molars, however, present a distinct multi- cuspidate structure, and both the true and false ones possess two separate fangs, as in other Marsupials. The inferior molars are directed obliquely inwards, and the whole dental series describes a slight sigmoid curve, (Jig. 97.) The false molars present the usual compressed triangular form with the apex slightly recurved; and the base more or less obscurely notched before and behind. The canines are very little longer than the false molars ; the incisors are minute, slightly com- pressed and pointed; they are separated from each other and the canines by wide intervals. The Myrmecobians are insectivorous,f and shelter themselves in the hollows of trees, fre- quenting most, it is said, those situations where the Port-Jackson willow abounds. In the structure and proportions of its hinder feet, Myrmecobius resembles the Dasyurine family ; and in the slightly developed canines, the smooth external surface of the skull, the breadth between the zygomata, and the absence of the interparietal ridges, as well as in its * This small Insectivore, of which the marsu- pial character is doubtful, had twenty-four molars in each jaw.—See Geol. Trans. New Series, vol.vi. part 1. t Mr. Gould informs me that they feed exclu- sively on ants. general external form and bushy tail, it offers an especial approximation to the genus F/ias- cogale. |3. Saltatoria. Genus PERAMELES. (Bandicoots./g. 84.) Fig. 84. Perameles nasuta. Incisors ^ ,,; canines ^ -, praemolars 3—3 , 4—4 3 —» molars j = = 48. This dental formula characterizes a number of Marsupials commonly known in Australia by the name of Bandicoots; the hind legs are longer and stronger than the fore, and exhibit in a well-marked manner the feeble and slender conditions of the second and third digits counting from the inside, and the sudden in- crease in length and strength of the fourth and fifth, or two outer toes, which are chiefly sub- servient to locomotion. In consequence of the inequality of length in their extremities the mode of progression in the Bandicoots is by bounds, the hind feet being moved toge- ther, and alternately with the fore feet, as in the hare and rabbit, and the crupper is raised higher than the fore-quarter. The teeth which offer the greatest range of variation in the present genus are the external or posterior incisors and the canines: the molars, also, which originally are quinque-cuspidate, have their points worn away, and present a smooth and oblique grinding surface in some species sooner than in others. The Bandicoots which approach nearest to the Myrmecobius in the condition of the in- cisive and canine teeth, are the Perameles obe- sula and P. Gunnii. There is a slight interval between the first and second incisor, and the outer or fifth incisor of the upper jaw is sepa- rated from the rest by an interspace equal to twice its own breadth, and moreover presents the triangular pointed canine-like crown which characterizes all the incisors of Myrmecobius; but the four anterior incisors are placed close together and have compressed, quadrate, true incisive crowns. From these incisors the canine is very remote, the interspace being equally divided by the fifth pointed incisor, which the canine very slightly exceeds in size. In Peram. nasuta the incisor presents the same general condition, but the canines are relatively larger, In Per. Gunnii, the outer incisor is closer to the others, which it also more nearly resembles in form than in the preceding species; but in Per. Lagotis, it is not separated from the rest by a wider interval than that which intervenes between the first and second incisor. In both