NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nerve.) 598 and therefore have been classed among die nervi molles by anatomists. In its peripheral distribution this nerve is prone to attach itself to the coats of bloodvessels, so much so, in fact, as to give it the character of an arterial or venous nerve; for, with a very few exceptions, it is always conveyed to organs along the bloodvessels which are distributed to them. In its distribution it is entirely or almost con- fined to the trunk, and probably has no con- nexion with the extremities; or, if it have, that connexion must be by very few fibres, and those attached exclusively to the larger trunks of bloodvessels. The peripheral ramifications of this nerve are always plexiform, and being distributed on some non-symmetrical parts, the plexuses which are derived from opposite sides of the body meet and anastomose along the mesial plane. The solar plexus, for example, derives filaments from the right and left trunks of the sympathetic, and the plexuses which accompany the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries, are also supplied from each side. Of the precise nature of these plexuses nothing is known: it is obvious, however, that their me- dian anastomoses constitute a very peculiar feature, which strikingly distinguishes the sym- pathetic from the cerebro-spinal nerves, which do not anastomose along the mesial line. If in these anastomoses the looped arrangement exist, it might be conjectured to form a commissural connection between opposite and symmetrical portions of the sympathetic or of the brain or spinal cord. To determine the independence of this por- tion of the nervous system on the brain and spinal cord, it would be necessary to shew either that it possessed peculiar fibres distinct in characters from the cerebro-spinal fibres, which originated in the ganglia, and were occasion- ally bound up with cerebro-spinal nerves, or that fibres belonging to the ganglionic nerves, although exhibiting no essential difference from the cerebro-spinal, had their origin from the gan- glia and not from the brain or spinal cord. The present state of the investigations into this sub- ject does not enable us to determine these points; but there can be no doubt that at least a large proportion of the fibres which compose the sympathetic exhibit no essential difference from those of the cerebro-spinal nerves. When a portion of a sympathetic nerve is examined under the microscope, it is found to contain an unusually large quantity of white fibrous tissue, the fibres of which are arranged longitudinally. Crossing these are some fine circular fibres (of yellow elastic tissue) which are placed at some distance apart from each other. When the nerve is torn up by needles, numerous small oval cells may be seen among the fibres, their long axes being parallel to the fibres; these cells become much more visible when the fibrous tissue has been acted upon by acetic acid. They are scattered among the other elements of the nerve, and are probably persis- tent nuclei of the same kind as those which exist in muscle and other tissues. Numerous nerve-tubes are also seen entering into the for- mation of these nerves. These tubes appear to correspond in structure exactly with those of the cerebro-spinal system; they present the same clear outline, and contain a semifluid pulpy matter, which is acted upon in a similar way by reagents as that in the nerve-tubes of the cerebro-spinal system. They resemble, however, the nerve-tubes of the brain or spinal cord more than those of nerves, for they are much smaller and more delicate than the latter, and more prone to form varicosities. They lie side by side of each other as in other nerves, and do not inosculate. The number of these nerve-tubes seems to vary in different parts of the sympathetic, apparently without regard to the size of the nerve, so that a small nerve may contain several nerve-tubes, while a large one contains but a few. In the abdominal ramifi- cations the nerve-tubes are very numerous, and also in the cardiac nerves, while the sympa- thetic trunk in the neck contains but a few, which are situated quite in the centre of the nerve. So far all observers appear to agree in their statements respecting the elementary composi- tion of this nerve, and so far its intimate structure justifies the opinion that in its func- tions it must be intimately connected with the cerebro-spinal nerves. A coarser anatomy had already taught us that this nerve has extensive communications with the cerebro-spinal system, with all the encephalic nerves, excepting those of pure sense, and with all the spinal nerves by their anterior and posterior roots. It is now evident from microscopic observation that the object of these communications must be to enable cerebro-spinal nerve-tubes to pass into the sympathetic system; and, in short, that these communications may be regarded as so many origins of the sympathetic from the brain and spinal cord. It remains to inquire whether there is any good foundation for the doctrine that the sym- pathetic nerve contains distinct and peculiar fibres, (grey fibr es of some authors,) which are independent of the brain and spinal cord, and which by anastomosing with cerebral or spinal nerves may confer upon them, to a certain extent, the peculiar endowment which is supposed to characterise the nerves of the former kind. Retzius and Miiller appear to have been the first to put forward distinctly the opinion that certain cerebro-spinal nerves received parti- cular fibres from the sympathetic, as the latter received filaments from the former. And Miiller* suggested that both the ganglionic and the cerebro-spinal nerves should be looked upon as compound in structure; "that the ganglionic nerves contain motor, sensitive, and organic fibres, of which the latter kind alone have the power of regulating the vegetative processes, and have a special relation to the ganglia; that the cerebro-spinal nerves are likewise composed of motor, sensitive, and organic fibres, of which those of each kind have their specific destination, and run their course together without uniting with the others; that the ganglionic nerve consequently differs only in having numerous ganglia, and in con- taining a large number of grey fibres, which give it a proportionally greyer colour; while, * Miillcrs Physiology, by Baly, p. 710, 2d edit.