6 INSTINCT. idea which other philosophers have maintained, of intermediate agents between the Divine will and the living beings on earth, by which the actions of the latter are guided ;* but in pro- secuting this idea he is disposed to regard the proximate cause of instinct, as he expresses it, not as metaphysical, but merely as physical, and to suppose that "light, heat, and air, or any modification of them " may be the inter- mediate agents " employed by the Deity to excite and direct animals, when their intellect cannot, in their instinctive operations;" and that " the organization of the brain and nervous system may be so varied and formed by the Creator as to respond in the way that he wills, to pulses upon them from the physical powers of nature."f On this it may be observed that this last sentence expresses no more than the truth, whatever opinion we may form as to the mode, in which the response of the nervous system of an animal to the impressions made on it by physical agents takes place; but if it be meant by the expression, that the proximate cause of instinct is probably not metaphysical but physical, to exclude all mental operation, and all consciousness of effort, from the instinctive actions of animals, we can regard the theory only as a denial of all mental acts or affections in any of the lower animals, and as easily con- tradicted by the whole analogies of their struc- ture, by observation of their habits, and by the evidence of our own consciousness in the performance of those precisely similar instinc- tive actions which have been noticed above. It seems quite unreasonable to douht that the immediate cause of all the actions that we call instinctive, is a strictly mental effort, but the occurrence of that effort in every case when it is required must in all probability be always held as an ultimate fact in the animal oeconomy; and all speculations as to its inti- mate nature or proximate cause may be re- garded as mere conjectures, on a subject which is beyond the reach of the human faculties. Nor would any thing be gained, in the infer- ence as to final causes, from establishing any one of these conjectures ; for the mental constitution of man himself, and of the whole lower ani- mals, is equally a part of the contrivance of the Divine Artificer of the world, as the laws of motion or the properties of light. He who could make man after his own image could assuredly impart such mental propensities to other beings, as well as to man, as were ne- cessary for the ends for which the creation was designed. And when we attempt, in all hu- mility, but at the same time in confident re- liance on the mental powers which He has vouchsafed to us, to draw inferences as to His existence and attributes from the study of created things, we do so, not by vainly attempt- ing to comprehend the nature of the energy by which any of the changes (physical or mental) occurring around us are effected, but simply by observing the adaptation of means to ends in those regular and uniform laws which we are * See vol. ii. p. 243-4. t Vol. ii. p. 255-6. enabled to infer from the observation of such changes,—which we ascribe to His authority, and beyond which we feel that it is not yet given us, by any exercise of our minds, to ascend. In enabling us to draw those in- ferences, the instincts of animals, as we shall afterwards state, are of peculiar importance; but the inferences are the same, whatever opi- nion we may adopt as to the mode in which the Divine Intelligence so indicated rules the wills of the animal creation. Having said so much of the characteristics of this class of phenomena, and endeavoured to set them in the proper point of view, we shall next offer a very rapid sketch of the varied instincts exhibited in the different tribes of animals, arranging them simply according to the purposes which they seem destined to serve, and shall conclude with a few general reflections. It may be premised that it certainly seems reasonable d priori to suppose, that the struc- ture of the nervous system, and especially of the brain, of different animals, will bear some relation to the kind of instinctive propensities which they exhibit. In the size of the sen- sitive and motor nerves, and portions of the cerebro-spinal axis whence these originate, par- ticularly the spinal cord, medulla oblongata, and optic lobes (or corpora quadrigemina), in the higher animals, this relation may be distinctly perceived; and it has been further confidently stated by some phrenologists, that strong evi- dence of certain of their peculiar doctrines may be deduced from observation of the size and form of the brains of animals, as compared with their instincts ; but this last speculation certainly cannot be carried further than the vertebrated animals, which form but a small part of the living beings that are continually guided and ruled by the laws of instinct; and even in them no such relation of the size and form of the brain,or of any part of the brain, to the general intelligence of an animal, or to any par- ticular instinct, has been fully ascertained. In- deed, until some such essential difference shall be observed between the habits and instincts of the dolphin, or other cetaceous animals, and the predaceous fishes, as may correspond to the extraordinary difference of the size and struc- ture of their brains, (that of the former being much larger in proportion to the spinal cord than the human brain, and of complex struc- ture, while that of the latter is not larger than the optic lobes or corpora quadrigemina of the same animal, and of very simple structure,) such speculations may be safely distrusted.* Mr. Kirby has stated that the principal in- stincts of animals may be referred to three heads; those relating to their food, those re- lating to their propagation and the care of their offspring, and those relating to their hybernation. But this enumeration is certainly defective, and indeed will hardly include several which * We cannot suppose this difference to be con- nected with the difference in the mode of respi- ration of these animals, because we know that the only part of the central masses of the nervous system of either, concerned in that function, is the medulla oblongata.