MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 535 arrangement; such a disposition providing for the extension or shortening or lateral inflexions of the worm, and enabling the animals so con- structed to move about with facility in the cavi- ties wherein they reside. Nevertheless, at this, its first appearance in the animal series, muscular fibre has not as yet attained to the perfection of structure that it offers in the higher classes. The fibres are as yet indistinct, soft, and gelatinous ; they ap- pear to be deficient in fibrin ; neither do they, when examined with the microscope, present the transverse striae that are so characteristic of the muscular tissue in a more advanced condi- tion. The little fascicles are, moreover, ex- tremely short, and run but a little distance before they disappear, and are succeeded by others. Their whole appearance, in fact, is that of muscle in a rudimentary condition, and very accurately resembles the nascent muscular tissue when it first becomes apparent in the embryo of the vertebrate animal. The nervous system accompanying this condition of the muscles is extremely simple; a delicate ring surrounds the commencement of the oesopha- gus, by which, perhaps, the muscles of the mouth are associated during the act of imbibing nourishment, and prolonged from this ring are two long and thread-like nerves, one running along the dorsal and the other along the ventral aspect of the body, and passing quite from one extremity to the other, but without any percep- tible ganglionic enlargements in their course.* Having, therefore, no brains or central masses to which perceptions could be referred, localized organs of sense are likewise wanting in all the Ccelelmintiia. The Biiyozoa which, while naturalists were ignorant of their more compli- cated organization, were, until a recent period, confounded with the Polyps, are, from their entire structure, very justly entitled to a much higher position in the scale of animals, and un- doubtedly belong to the Nematoneurose type. These little beings inhabit transparent cells of very elaborate and delicate construction, from the mouth of which they protrude the anterior portion of their bodies when in search of food. Although from their general appearance the Bryozoa might easily be, and in fact have been until recently, erroneously regarded as Polyps, the differences between the two classes are ex- ceedingly striking and important. The Bryo- zoa, instead of having the tentacula that sur- round the oral aperture quite simple and fila- mentary, as the Polyps have, are furnished with ciliated tentacula, and from the rapid ciliary movement which is incessantly going on, while the arms are expanded, strong cur- rents are formed in the surrounding water, all of which impinging upon the oral orifice bring to the mouth such nutritive materials as are necessary for the support of the creature. The digestive apparatus is no longer a closed * The dorsal nervous cord of the Ascaris, first described by Cloquet, (Anatomie des vers intesti- naux,) seems to have been overlooked by the learned writer of the article " Animal Kingdom," who has arranged the Entozoa as being diploneurosc ani- mals. sacculus, as in the Polyps, but, on the contrary, presents a very elaborate structure, consisting of a gizzard, stomach, and distinct intestinal canal, terminated by an anal aperture, though which the faeces are ejected; and, more- over, the whole of the digestive viscera float loosely in a visceral cavity wherein they are suspended. In addition to this, the mouth of the cell occupied by the Bryozoon is defended by a most delicate and complicated opercular apparatus, requiring a very perfect set of mus- cles to perform all the required movements connected with the protrusion and retraction of the body, so that there is abundant reason for separating the animals in question from the Acrite Zoophytes. As relates to their muscular system, rudi- mentary in its development as it must still ne- cessarily be, many circumstances of great inte- rest have been brought to light by the patient investigations of Dr. Arthur Farre, to whose valuable memoir* we are indebted for the fol- lowing particulars, which we give at some length, more especially as they will serve not only to elucidate this part of our subject, but to correct several important errors that have been promulgated relative to the Rotjfera, an important class of animals next to be noticed, of very analogous structure. For the purpose of drawing the protruded Bryozoon into its retreat two distinct sets of muscles are provided, one set acting upon the animal and the other upon the flexible opercu- lum that closes the cell. The muscles for the retraction of the animal are contained in the visceral cavity, and consist of two bundles of delicate thread-like cords, the one set arising from the bottom of the cell to be inserted about the base of the stomach, the other also arising from the bottom of the cell and passing up free by the sides of the pharynx to be inserted around the line of junction between this organ and the tentacula. The muscles provided for the retraction of the operculum consist of six flattened bundles of fibres, which act upon the flexible portion of the cell and a delicate circle of setae placed around its orifice. It is at once evident there- fore that the muscular system in the Bryozoa is capable of great precision of action, and the fasciculi are most accurately adjusted. Neverthe- less if the intimate structure of this form of muscle be investigated, it is found not to have attained to full perfection. " It would appear," says Dr. Arthur Farre, " as if muscular fibre were here reduced to its simplest condition. The filaments are totally disconnected, and are arranged one above the other in a single series. They pass straight and parallel from their ori- gin to their insertion, and have a uniform dia- meter throughout their course, except that each filament generally presents a small knot upon its centre, which is most apparent when it is in a state of contraction, at which time the whole filament also is obviously thicker than when relaxed. The filaments have a watery * Dr. A. Fane, on the structure of Ciliobra- chiate Polypi. Phil. Trans, part 2 for 1837.