(Nerve.) 599 NERVOUS SYSTEM in the cerebrospinal system, the grey fibres are less numerous, and are seen as grey fasciculi lying in the larger mass of white fibres." Neither Retzius nor Muller has given a clear description of these organic fibres as seen by them. Muller quotes and adopts Remak's account of the microscopic examination of these fibres. " They are," according to the latter anatomist, " much more minute than the cere- brospinal fibres; they are perfectly homo- geneous, that is to say, not composed, as far as can be distinguished with the microscope, of a tube and contained portion; and are so pale and transparent that in a strong light they are not visible; lastly, a completely characteristic appearance is produced by the small roundish or oval bodies which here and there beset their surface." They are almost gelatinous in their nature ; they have on their surface the appear- ance of fine longitudinal lines, and are easily resolved into very fine fibres.'* Schwann seems to confirm this description, and to regard the organic fibre as a less per- fectly developed state of the nerve-tube of the cerebro-spinal system. Henle in his description of the grey or soft nerves gives the following account of these fibres (^fg.334).They are flat fibres,very clear, of homo- Fig. 334. Gelatinous nervous fibres from a soft nerve in the Uulf ( from Henle.) A, fibre resolving itself into fibrillin. U, A fibre doubled on itself, shewing the flattened character. C, Two fibres lying in juxtaposition. a, a, a, nuclei. c, a nuclear fibre (Kernfaser.) d, a fibril la.. geneous appearance, in diameter from 0.002 to 0.003 of a line (g^th to ^th of an inch), with numerous nuclei of cells, round and oval, most of them laid flat, and arranged at nearly equal distances, many presenting regular nucleoli, and pointed at their opposite poles. Their longest diameter is generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of the nerve. Sometimes one of these fibres resolves itself into more delicate fibrillar, resembling the primitive fibre of cellu- lar tissue. Acetic acid dissolves them, and leaves the nuclei untouched. Henle admits that the greyish colour of the nerves depends on the quantity of these fibres ; the greater the * Miiller's Physiology, translated by Baly, p. 720, and Remak Obs. anat. et micioscop. de sys- tem, nervos. structura. number of nerve-tubes, the more the bundle resembles an ordinary cerebro-spinal nerve. In the roots of the sympathetic the number of the grey fibres is in large proportion, there being four to six of them for one nerve-tube, so that each nerve-tube appears surrounded by the nucleated fibres.* Valentin, who admits the existence of fibres of a similar kind to those described by Henle, maintains that they are continuations of the sheaths of the globules which exist in the gan- glia, and which are prolonged from them into the nervous trunks, and they serve as an enve- lope or protecting sheath to the cerebro-spinal nerve-tubes. Henle, who had formerly regarded these fibres as nerves distributed to the con- tractile cellular tissue and to vessels, (" the slight developement of the nerves of these tissues seeming to correspond to the imperfec- tion of their contractile power,") now expresses great doubts as to their nature and office, and proposes to call them gelatinous nervous fibres; " a name," he says, " winch has no other end but to designate their presence in certain nerves, in the same way as we continue to call the fibres of cellular tissue, which are met with in tendons, tendinous fibres." Miiller conjectures that they may serve the purpose of establishing a communication be- tween the ganglia; in short, that they are so many commissures between these centres.f Purkinje and Rosenthal describe the organic nerve-fibre as the same as the central axis of the cerebro-spinal nerve-tube deprived of its investing membrane, and from comparing the sympathetic fibres with the cerebro-spinal fibre in the young embryo, they state their opinion that the latter, in an early stage of develope- ment, is identical with the former, but they do not appear to recognise, as Remak did, any continuity between these organic fibres and the ganglionic globules.£ Volkmann and Bidder have lately put for- ward an examination of this question; and these observers maintain the existence of a series of fibres peculiar to the sympathetic and distinct from those of the bram and spinal cord. Their work, however, contains many statements so much at variance with those of preceding writers, and with what I have myself seen, that I am led to entertain a strong suspicion that there must have been some fallacy affecting their observations throughout. The sympathetic fibre, according to these writers, differs from the cerebro-spinal fibre in the following particulars ; it exhibits at its mar- gin a single contour, instead of the double one which is so constant a feature of the cerebro- spinal fibre, especially when examined some time after death; the distinction between a containing tube and the pulpy contents is not manifest; the fibre has sometimes a greyish aspect, which the authors regard as independent of any admixture with material foreign to that of the nerve-fibre itself; it is much smaller than the cerebro-spinal fibre, nearly one-half; in the cerebro-spinal as well as the sympathetic * Henle, Algemeine Anat. t Archiv. 1839, p. ccv. } De Formatione granulosa, Vratislav. 1839.