NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Encephalon.) 669 corpora striata, he raised a large flap consisting of the upper part of the hemispheres, with the intervening corpus callosum and the adherent fornix; and thus were exposed the inferior sur- face of the latter, and the cavities of the three ventricles, the fourth being shewn by a vertical section of the cerebellum on the median plane, and by the separation of the segments thus made. This is an admirable section to display the connection of the hemispheres with what Willis described as the medulla oblongata, namely, in thewords of his translator, " all that substance which reaches from the inmost cavity of the callous body and conjuncture in the basis of the head to the hole of the hinder part of the head, where the same substance being yet further continued ends in the spinal mar- row." The fourth, seventh, and eighth plates in Willis's work display this mode of dis- section.* The modern researches of Reil, Gall and Spurzheim, and others, directed attention more particularly to the physiological anatomy of the brain. Their principal object was to discover the mode of connexion of the several segments of the cord with each other, and of the whole encephalon with the spinal cord. And their method of dissection consisted in tracing the course of the fibres chiefly from below upwards. Reil found it necessary to harden the brain in alcohol, in order to give it such firmness as would enable him to tear portions of it in the direction of its fibres, and thus to make these latter conspicuous. There can be no doubt that layers of the brain will separate most rea- * Thorns Willis, Cerebri anatome, ncrvorumque descriptio et usus, in Opera Omnia, Amsterdam, 1682, cap. xiii. Also an English edition by S. Pordage, London, 1684. The following extract gives the description of Willis's dissection in his own words. " Ot cerebri ita pioprie dicti anatome rite celebretur, haud vulgari sectionis modo proce- dendum esse existimo. Verum ubi totius iyx£<J>aXou calvaria exempti compages coram sistitur, im- primis posterior cerebri limbus, ubi cerebello ac medulla? oblongata: connectitur, membranis undique discissis aut avulsis, a cohassione cum partibus sub- jects (quantum fieri potest) liberetur ; tunc facile constabit quod cerebri substantia corporibus istis haudquaquam unitur, verum per se, nisi quod membranarum nexu superlicie tenus conjungitur ab iis omuino libera ac independens fuerit: quinetiam haec cerebri puppis a vicinis partibus eo ritu divisa, si anterius reclinetur, medullas oblongata; crura, prorsus nuda, ac a cerebro et cerebello (nisi in quibus locis haec illi appenduntnr) omnino distincta apparebunt. • »•»»••*••*•••*• Interioris cerebri recessus adhnc clarius patebunt, si limbus ejus a medulla; oblongata; cohassione, quantum fieri potest, ex omni pane separatus et elevatus, ad latera ejusdem medullas, quibus juxta corpora striata unitur, pnulo ulterius per sobstan- tiain suam secetur, simulque lornix juxta radices discissus una cum cerebro reflcctatur, tunc enim cerebri compages penituB elevari, antrorsum re- flecti, ac in planum explicari potest, ita ut corporis callosi in aream latam expansi interior superficies tota conspici et tractari possit. Ubi, praster mcdul- larem et nitidissimam illius substantiam, observare est plnres lineas albas paralelas qua; cerebri disse- pimentum rectis angulis secant; quasi esscnt trac- tusquidam, sui vestigia, in quibus spiritus animales ab uno cerebri haemispherio in alterum migrant resiliuntque." Op. cit. cap. i. p. 5, 6. dily when torn in the direction of their fibres; and thus this mode of preparation becomes of great importance to the anatomist, as he can thereby determine easily the direction of those fibres which form the principal portion of the part under examination. It will not, however, suffice to display the direction of all the fibres, nor indeed is any mode of preparation adequate for that purpose, which can only be accom- plished by extensive and patient microscopic investigation.* The great advantage of pursuing the dissec- tion in the direction from below upwards con- sists in this, that we proceed from the more simple to the more complex. The problem which the anatomist has to solve is, Given cer- tain columns or bundles of fibres in the me- dulla oblongata, to determine how they connect themselves with the other segments of the brain. But it is obvious that without some knowledge of the topography of the other more compli- cated parts of the encephalon, the dissector would have considerable difficulty in pursuing his researches. Nor must he content himself with the solution of this fundamental question; he is to explore for other fibres in these seg- ments besides those which connect them with the medulla oblongata, and he has to ascertain how they comport themselves, whether as form- ing an integrant portion of the segment in which they are found, or serving to connect it with one or more of the others. Although we are mainly indebted to modern anatomists for following out more completely this method of dissection, it cannot be denied that such men as Willis, Vieussens, and Mal- pighi were quite alive to the importance of ex- amining the fibres of the brain, with a view to the physiological action of its different parts. No one can peruse Willis's admirable account of the brain without perceiving how completely he unites structure and function, and with what * Reil's methods of preparing the brain are best described in his own words : " Of the methods which I have employed in preparing brains, those contained in the following directions answered best. 1. Let the brain be hardened in alcohol, and then placed in a solution either of carbonated or pure alkali, in the latter two days, in the former for a longer period, and then again hardened in alcohol if thus rendered too soft. The advantage of this method is, that the fasciculi of nervous matter are more readily separable, and the brown matter more distinguishable from the white than after simple maceration in alcohol; the grey matter is rendered by the alkali of a blacker grey, and assumes the consistence of jelly. 2. Let the brain be macerated in alcohol, in which pure or carbonated potass or ammonia has been previously dissolved ; the con- traction of the brain is lessened by this process. 3. Let the brain be macerated in alcohol from six to eight days, and then its superficial dissection commenced, and the separation of the deeper parts continued, as the fluid, in which the brain is kept immersed, penetrates its substance. This method appears tome belter than the preceding, and would very likely be improved if the alcohol were ren- dered alkaline. The fibres in a brain, thus pre- pared, are more tenacious than otherwise, and the deeper parts are sooner exposed to the influence of the alcohol."—Mayo's translation of Reil's Eighth Essay, in the former's Anat. and Phys. Commen- taries, p, ii. p. 50.