379 MONOTREMATA. transversely, convex vertically, in the Echidna; it is hardly definable when the cartilage is separated from the bone ; but the patella itself is well developed, and ossified in both Mono- tremes (fig. 173, a, p). The tibia is straight in the Echidna, but bent, with the convexity next the fibula, in the Ornithorhynehus; its cristie are slightly marked. The fibula is slightly bent in the Echidna, but is straight in the Ornithorhynehus ; in both Monotremes it is longer than the tibia by the extent of a process which rises upwards beyond the proximal articulation of the fibula, and most strongly expresses the analogy of this bone with the ulna: this process (fig.XTi, a, v) reaches half way up the back of the femur in the Ornithorhynehus, and, like the olecranon, is greatly expanded at its termination. Cuvier* indicates the resemblance of this structure in the Monotremes with the fibula and the super- numerary bone imposed upon its enlarged prox- imal end in the pedimanous Marsupials. The tarsus (Jigs. 178, 179) consists of a scaphoid (a), astragalus (fc), a calcaneum (c), three cuneiform bones (d,e,f), and a cuboid (g) in the Echidna; but the cuboid in the Ornitho- and forwards, nearly in a line with the digits (fig. 179, e). The astragalus in the Ornithorhynehus pre- sents a double trochlea above for the tibia and fibula, and a depres- sion on its inner side, which receives the in- curved malleolus of the tibia, almost as in the Sloths. The toes have the same number of bones as in other Mam- mal ia; their size and form are more alike in the two Monotrema- tous genera than those of the fingers: the un- gual phalanges, like the claws they support, are more curved than those on the fore foot, but like them they are perforated on their in- ner and concave side CAg.179). Bones of hinrl-foot, Echidna hystrix. (Cuvier.) rhynchus is divided into two bones, as in some Reptiles, one for the fourth and the other for the fifth metatarsal bones. In both Mono- tremes there is a sesamoid bone (fig. 178,*) placed at the interspace between the astragalus and the naviculare; a second supernumerary bone (**) is articulated to the posterior part of the astragalus, and supports the perforated spur which characterizes the male sex (Jig. 173, k, d). The calcaneum of the Ornithorhynehus ter- minates by sending outwards a short obtuse tuberosity; in the Echidna this part is more slender, and is singularly directed inwards Bones of hind-foot, plantar aspect, Echidna setosa. ( Original.) OF THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. The figure (180) here given from Meckel* il- lustrates some of the most instructive peculiari- ties of the muscular system of the Ornithorhyn- ehus. The animal is dissected from the ventral surface; the great cutaneous muscle, the ' pan- niculus carnosus' (1), is reflected from the right side, and the deeper-seated muscles are shown on the left. The panniculus carnosus, which is remarkable for its thickness, encompasses nearly the whole body, adhering most firmly to the external skin, but separated from the subjacent muscles, especially where it covets the thorax, abdomen, the arm, and the thigh, by a copious and lax cellular tissue; and in the female, at the abdominal region, by the mammary glands. The fibres are chiefly longitudinal, but at the lower part of the neck become transverse. The obtuse posterior end of the muscle is attached by three or four fasciculi to the dorsal aspect of the transverse processes of the caudal vertebrae. The legs and the arms protrude through oblique apertures in this muscular tunic ; some of the anterior fasciculi are in- serted by a short tendon into the pectoral ridge of the humerus; and others, still more anterior, are attached to the cranium, the lower jaw, and lower lip. A strip of fibres, which is cut off at 1*, is attached to the os hyoides; another fasciculus (1') spreads over the cheek-pouch, and assists in emptying that receptacle of the food. The trapezius (9) is divided into two muscles; the posterior portion is an oblong slender tri- angle arising by a broad tendon from the tenth and eleventh vertebra? and ribs, and inserted by a short strong tendon in the anterior extremity of the spine of the scapula; the anterior portion is shorter, but broader, and is subquadrangular; it arises from the occiput and tendinous raphe * Ossem. Foss. v. pt. i. p. 153. * De Ornithorhyncho, &c. tab. v.