690 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. Tue Encephalon.) Fig. 390. Superior surface A, the square lobe; P, the posterior superio }, tubercula quadrigemina ; I, locus nij terior laminae form the floor of the posterior notch: the anterior form, by their adhesion to each other, the layer known by the name of valve of Vieussens, which fills up the interval between the processus cerebelli ad testes. The laminae which form the superior surface of the median lobe, (or the superior vermiform process,) are considerably fewer than those of the hemispheres. This explains the less depth of the median lobe, when measured from before backwards, than of the hemispheres. Two or more of the laminae of the latter are united to a single lamina of the former, and thus the superior vermiform process serves as a trans- verse commissure to the superior laminae of the hemispheres. The inferior surface of the median lobe, or inferior vermiform process, is likewise com- posed of laminae, which take a transverse di- rection and present a free convex border, with some resemblance to the rings of a worm in action. ( Fig. 391.) These laminae are not all of equal transverse extent. The middle and pos- terior are the broadest; the anterior gra- dually diminish in size. Hence the body which results from the conjunction of all the laminae has a triangular form, its apex being anterior and its base posterior, corresponding to the notch between the hemispheres. The laminae whieh occupy its middle have a greater depth than the rest, and consequently the body is more prominent at this situation. Certain deep fissures divide the inferior ver- miform process into segments which evidently correspond with and connect the lobes into of the cerebellum. r lobe ; S, superior layer of the eras cerebri j ;er ; i, inferior layer of the crus cerebri. which the hemispheres are subdivided on their inferior surface. These segments may be very readily distin- guished from each other, and the names which the accurate lleil has given them are suffi- ciently appropriate. By separating each seg- ment from the adjacent ones and tracing its4 lateral relations, the anatomist may form a better idea than by any other means of the way in which this portion of the cerebellum is con- nected with the hemispheres. The anterior extremity of the inferior vermi- form process projects int o the cavity of the fourth ventricle, and serves to close it at its inferior ex- tremity. It is a pointed process, furrowed trans- versely, continuous by its base with the rest of the vermiform process. Reil has named it the Nodule. From either side of it a valve-like membrane of exquisite delicacy extends forwards and outwards towards a lobule which is at- tached to each crus cerebelli near to the origin of the auditory nerve. These membranes re- semble very much in shape the semilunar valves of the aorta. By their attached margin they adhere to the crus cerebelli, and their free margin projects into the cavity of the fourth ventricle. Their inner extremities adhere to the nodule, and are connected to each other by a thin membrane of precisely similar texture, which is a commissure to them. Reil gives to the two membranes and their intermediate con- necting one the name of posterior medullary velum.* The lateral membranes were first de- * The valve of Vieussens is the anterior medul- lary velum.