NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Comparative Anatomy.) 619 ganglion, situated in the median line; in the perch, gurnard, cod, pike, roach, chub, carp, and dace, of a pair of ganglia, and this is the most usual arrangement. In the skate, one of the Plagiostome fishes, where the brain is alto- gether more highly developed, there is one large ganglion or cerebral mass; it is solid, but in some of the sharks it contains a cavity. From these eminences, whatever be their number, the olfactory nerves (processes or lobes) arise (figs. 350 and 351, k, k), which, running together in an osseous canal for some little distance, diverge, and form large tubercles on the cribri- form plate of the ethmoid bone (fig. 352, I); from these tubercles nerves arise, which are distributed to the pituitary membrane of the nose. 2dly. The optic lobes, or second cerebral mass (figs. 351 and 352, c, b), which Collins,* Monro,* Camper,* Ebel,* Treviranus,* and Cuvier,* considered as analogous to the cere- bral hemispheres of the mammalia, but which, with Serrps,f Desmoulins,f Arsaky,f Carus,f and Tiedemann,f I consider as analogous to the tubercula quadrigemina, are generally of large size in fishes, and contain internal tuber- cles and cavities, which communicate with the 'fourth ventricle. These masses may be said to arrive in this class at their maximum of deve- lopement, and we may recollect to have traced out their first rudiments in the cerebral ganglion of the Gasteropodous Mollusca, and to have noticed their successive complication of deve- lopement in the varied classes of articulated animals. In the lamprey these optic lobes are larger and more developed than any other parts of the brain; and this is what we should be led to expect from the low organization and vermiform nature of these Cyclostomous fishes: they contained in their interior a cavity. In the eel, perch, cod (fig. 351, c), gurnard, mackarel, pike, roach, chub (fig. 352, b), carp, and dace, true osseous fishes, the optic lobes are well developed, and, excepting in the eel, much larger than the olfactory tubercles before them ; they are hollow, and contained tubercles, which vary in number, >ize,and position. In the eel there are two of these tubercles in each hollow lobe,equal in size, and situated posteriorly; in the cod there are also two, the outermost being the largest, and smooth, the inner one being smaller, and constricted in the middle (fig. 351, e); in the mackarel there are two, the anterior one being exceedingly small, the posterior much larger, slightly convoluted, somewhat resemb- ing the Greek letter r; in the pike there are two, and the floor of the cavity had a striated appearance; in the roach there is only one large tubercle; and in the carp there are two, the anterior being rather long, and passing backwards in a curved manner. From these lobes the optic nerves (fig. 351, /) arise, and cross each other, without, however, any other connexion than mere cellular tissue. The third, fourth, and sixth pairs have also their origins from these ganglia. [The optic lobes have a direct relation in * Op. cit. f Op. cit. point of volume with that of the eyes, and in the pleuronecta, in which the eyes are of une- qual size, Gottsche states that the optic lobes are unequal.] The tubercles situated on the inferior surface of the brain, and immediately beneath the optic lobes just described, are generally of small size, and seldom contain a cavity; be- tween them are the infundibulum and pituitary gland, generally of very large proportional size. Respecting their analogies and names, very much difference of opinion exists. Haller termed them the inferior protuberances of the olfactory nerves ;* Cuvier considered them as the true optic lobes ;f Dr. Grant calls them the cerebral hemispheres, and supposes they are the representatives of those parts in the higher animals ;J Serres considers them appen- dages to the optic nerves, and analogous to the tuber cinereum ;§ Vicq d'Azyr,|| Arsaky,^ and Cams, consider them analogous to the corpora mammillaria of higher animals :** Tiedemannf f does not decide upon this point, but judges (from the situation and form of the tubercles) that the latter hypothesis is the more probable one. 3dly. The cerebellum, or third cerebral mass (fig. 351, f; fig. 352, c), is but imperfectly developed in fishes ; it is generally of a round form, and covers in the cavity formed by the divergence of the two cords of the spinal mar- row and an enlargement of its canal, the fourth ventricle. In the lamprey there are scarcely any traces of a cerebellum, a thin transverse band of medullary matter being all that stands for it; the fourth ventricle is here, therefore, quite open and exposed. In the eel it is large, and of a rounded form ; in the perch its sum- mit is directed backwards ; in the mackarel, forwards; in the cod (fig. 351, J') and pike it consists of a tongue-shaped lobe ; in the gur- nard, roach, chub (fig. 352, c), and dace, it is round, and of moderate size ; in the carp it is also of a rounded form, but immediately be- hind and below it is situated another ganglion of smaller size, on each of which is a larger ganglion, principally destined for the origin of the branchial nerves, thus rendering the struc- ture of the cerebellum very complicated, and its size very voluminous. In the Plagiostome fishes the cerebellum is much more highly de- veloped. In the skate it is of large relative size, furnished with two lateral appendages, the commencement of lateral hemispheres, on the external surface of which transverse and longitudinal striae were developed. On reviewing these statements of the nervous system of the fishes, we observe two things that more particularly mark its low organization —the equality and the horizontal position of the brain and spinal marrow. In fact, as regards * Opera minora, vol. ii. t Anatomie Comparec. X Lectures on Comparative Anatomy. 6 Anatomie Comparee du Cerveau. [| Opera minora. if De piscium cerebro. ** Anatomie Comparec. tt Anatomy of the Foetal Brain.