382 MONOTREMATA. and with it also the tail and the pelvic extre- mities. The psoas magnus and iliacus internus form a single muscle, having the usual origins, and inserted by a common tendon into the large internal condyle. The gluteus externus is larger than is usually the case with quadrupeds; its tendon is inserted into the plantar fascia and the bone which sup- ports the spur. The gluteus medius, gluteus internus, pectineus (45), biceps flexor cruris, gracilis (34), sar tortus (35), rectus Jemoris (36), adductores J'emoris (46), semitendinosus (47), semimembranosus, vastus externus, offer no notable deviations from the usual structure. A strip of fibres (49) descends from the gracilis to the sphincter cloaca: (H). A muscle, called by Meckel ' flexor accessorius a cauda ad tibiam tendens' (51), arises from the transverse pro- cesses of the anterior caudal vertebrae, and converges to be inserted into the tibia. Another peculiar adductor of the leg, which might be termed ' intertibialis ' (52), is attached by its extremities to both tibiae; its fleshy belly passes across the sphincter cloacae (H), and is connected with a strip of the panniculus carnosus (i). The gastrocnemius (48) derives its largest origin from the produced and expanded head of the fibula, and its smaller belly from the internal femoral condyle; its tendon is implanted in the calcaneum. The analogy between the gastro- cnemius and ulnaris internus is strikingly illus- trated in the Omithorhynchus. The soleus arises from the head of the fibula and from a large proportion of the tibia ; it is nowhere blended with the gastrocnemius, but is inserted by a thick and short tendon into the astragalus. The abductors of the outer digits of both the hand and foot are well developed for the purpose of expanding the web which connects the toes. In the figure the following muscles of the leg are shown, viz. 37, tibialis anticus, 38, ex- tensor hallucis longus, 39, peronaus longus, 40, peronaus brevis, 41, extensor digitorum communis profundus, brevi analogus, 42, exten- sor digitorum communis sublimis, 43, a portion of the same muscle corresponding with the indicator of the fore leg, 44, extensor digiti quinti accessorius. NERVOUS SYSTEM. "Brain. — In the male Ornithorlii/nchus Meckel found that the brain weighed two drachms, German weight (about four drachms avoirdupoise), and bore a proportion to the weight of the body as 1 to 130. It was in- closed by a pretty strong dura mater, of which the fold corresponding with the bony falx ad- hered but slightly to that process. The cere- brum weighed one drachm and a half, German; neatly the whole of its superficies was smooth; a few vascular impressions marked the side of the anterior lobe : its shape was triangular, depressed; the contracted anterior lobes form- ing the obtuse apex of the triangle : the pos- terior lobes are wide and cover the corpora bigemina. The surface of the cerebrum is smooth and unconvoluted (Jig. 181). Fig. 181. Side view and base of brain, Omithorhynchus. (Meckel.) In describing the structure of the cerebral hemispheres Meckel observes, with reference to the most characteristic part of this structure in the Mammalia, " Corpus callosum adest quidem, sed breve, quam baud quatuor lineas longitudine aequet, memorabilius etiam videtur, in dimidia duo lateralia, linea mediana haud confluentia, esse disjunctum. Equidem sal- tern in faciebus sese spectantibus internis nul- lum dilacerationis vestigium invenire potui."— L. c. p. 33. During my investigations of the structure of the brain in the Marsupial animals,* I had in memory the apparent exception to the bird- like condition of the corpus callosum, which the Omithorhynchus, according to the above description, presented, but which each suc- cessive example of the brain of the Marsupial quadruped served to establish more firmly as the rule of structure in the higher order of the Implacental sub-class. It was difficult to believe that in the lower or Monotrematous group, the cerebral organ, which indicates so accurately the true affinities and natural posi- tion of the Vertebrate animal, and which fol- lows so faithfully the degradation of the general organization of each species, should offer so abrupt an ascent to the cerebral condition of the placental Mammalia, as would be indi- cated by a corpus callosum of four lines long in a brain of which the hemispheres measure only fourteen lines in length (German scale). The strong suspicion of an error in the cele- biated anatomist's description justified a re- serve in acknowledging this exception until the opportunity of testing it by a dissection of a brain of a Monotrematous quadruped should have presented itself; and my doubts as to the great development of the corpus callosum of the Omithorhynchus were further justified by the indication of its nearer ap- proach to the Oviparous type afforded by the simple bipartite condition of the tubercules * Philos. Trans. 1837, p. 87.