366 MONOTREMATA. connecting the Mollusks with the Zoophytes, it affords perhaps the best positive character of this great primary group of the animal king- dom ; for whereas, in the Articulate division, the breathing organs are lateral or open upon or towards the sides of the body, and in the Vertebrate division communicate with the oral extremity of the nutritive canal, in the Mollusca they are connected with the anal outlet. The uropoietic system, where traces of it are recognizable, as in most Gastropods and in Cephalopods, likewise communicates with the respiratory cavity. The rich endowment of vibratile cilia de- serves to be noticed as characterizing the bran- chial organs, and constituting the chief mecha- nism of respiration in most Mollusca. The organs of vegetative life subservient to the pro- creation of the species are not less remarkable for bulk, variety, and complexity than are those which minister to the preservation and growth of the individual. Although comparatively simple and reduced to the essential formative organs in the Acephala, they are, with very few exceptions, placed in distinct individuals, that is to say, one Ascidian or Oyster possesses only the testicle, and is a male; another only the ovarium, and is a female. In the order Conchifera, the females have the gills modified to serve as a receptacle for the impregnated ova during foetal development. Among the Encephalous Mollusks are many hermaphroditical species, some with the male and female organs terminating sufficiently close together for independent or self-impregnation; others having the outlets of the two organs remote, and requiring the concourse of another individual in reciprocal fecundation ; or the same individual is impregnated by another and impregnates a third, as is curiously exempli- fied in the nuptial chain thus formed by nu- merous individuals of the Marsh-snails (Lym- n<ea). The Trachelipods and Cephalopods are again dioecious, like the lowest classes of Mollusks, but exhibit the generative organs under the highest stage of complication; and some of the latter class are remarkable for the expulsion not only of the ova aggregated in groups contained in special receptacles, but also of the spermatozoa in a similar state of aggregation in cylindrical cases, which, by the arrangement of their elastic tissue, manifest movements, prior to their rupture, which have long excited the surprise and admiration of the physiological observer. A large vitellus, among the numerous nucle- ated cells of which it is often difficult to recog- nize a single one as the centre of development, or as the germinal vesicle, characterizes the ovum of most Mollusks. In most species also the early formation of vibratile cilia on the surface of the germinal membrane, and the rotation of the embryo upon its axis produced by their action, are striking though not peculiar phenomena. The adherence to a uniform type in the earlier pe- riods of growth is singularly manifested in the young of Tritonia, Doris, Aplysia, and other naked Mollusks, which are protected for a cer- tain period by an external spiral univalve shell. The classification of the Molluscous animals has exercised the judgment and discrimination of some of the ablest Zoologists, and is a sub- ject too expanded for the limits assigned to the present article. The principles of a natural distribution into the larger groups according to general organization seem to be adhered to in the following system. Taking the nervous system as a guide to the divisions of highest value and extent, the Mollusca separate themselves, as already shown, into Acephala and Encephala. The Acephala may be divided according to the nature of their external covering into Tu- nicata, where this is continuous, flexible, and elastic; and into Conchifera, where it is tes- taceous and divided into two or more valves. The Conchifera may be subdivided according to the modifications of the respiratory organs into Palliobranchians and Lamellibranchians. Respiratory characters likewise mainly distin- guish the sessile Tunicaries or Ascidians, and the floating Tunicaries, or Salpaceans. The Encephalous Mollusks are classified ac- cording to their organs of locomotion, as Pte- ropods, Gastropods, and Cephalopods. The respiratory organs afford the best charac- ters for the subdivisions or orders of these three classes. (Richard Owen.) MONOTREMATA, Gr.^o'ws,«ngfe,tgu/»», hole, in reference to the single cloacal excre- mentory and generative outlet; Fr. Mono- tremes ; Ger. Monotremen; Eng. Monotremes. An order or primary group of the Implacental subclass of Mammalia, representing the Eden- tata in that subclass; allied to the Marsupialia by the absence of the corpus callosum and by the presence of the marsupial bones, but differ- ing in the absence of the abdominal pouch and scrotum, in the absence of teeth, in the sim- plicity of the bigeminal bodies, and in some remarkable modifications of the skeleton and generative organs. As the order Bruta or Edentata is that which exhibits the lowest modifications of the Pla- cental type of the Mammalian structure, and offers in some respects the nearest approach in that subclass to the Ovipara, so the Monotre- mata present the extreme modifications of the Implacental type, and make the last step in the transition from the Mammalian to the Oviparous classes. The Monotremes are, however, true Mam- malia in all essential points of structure : they possess functional mammary glands, which are largely developed at the breeding season : their lungs consist of a spongy tissue, sub- divided throughout into very minute cells; they are suspended freely in a thoracic cavity, separated by a complete muscular and aponeu- rotic diaphragm from the abdomen : the arch of the aorta bends over the left bronchus : the larynx is superior, and is defended by a well- developed epiglottis : the kidneys are compact conglobate glands with distinct cortical and medullary substances, secreting the urine from arterial blood, and returning the blood to the