NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Encephalon.) 699 md to the outside of the thalamus. It is pear- slmptd : its thick end is directed forwards and inwards, and it gradually tapers 'backwards into a caudate process of considerable length, which winds downwards, forwards, and inwards into the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, at the anterior extremity of which it terminates. Placed on the outside of the thalamus, it seems to embrace it there, and to adhere very inti- mately to it. The taenia semicircularis lies in a groove between the two bodies, and as it were constricts their connecting fibres. The corpus striatum is of a dark grey colour. A considerable portion of it projects free into the cavity of the ventricle, forming an extensive convex surface there. The rest is firmly im- bedded in the fibrous substance of the hemi- sphere, and in position corresponds to the base of the insula, which for that reason has been called the lobule of the corpus striatum. The free surface as contributing to form the ventri- cular wall is covered by the lining membrane of the ventricle and a layer of nucleus-like particles; it is traversed by several veins. This surface is limited on the outside by the plane of fibres, which, after emerging from it, incline inwards and contribute to form the corpus cal- losum. On the inside it is limited by the taenia semicircularis, which separates it from the optic thalamus. That portion of the free surface which is seen in the inferior horn of the ven- tricle has, as already stated, the appearance of a caudiform prolongation of the upper portion; this probably arises from the diminution of the body in thickness at its inferior part, the portion which belongs to the inferior cornu forming the apex of a cone, of which the upper convex portion forms the curvilinear base. When sections are made through the corpus striatum, it is found to be traversed by very numerous bundles of fibres. It is necessary that these sections should be directed obliquely from below upwards in a direction parallel to the inferior layer of the crus cerebri. The bundles are thicker and more closely approxi- mated to each other inferiorly; but as they ascend, they diverge, and radiate, some for- wards, others outwards, and others backwards ; some pass nearly vertically upwards. A section made quite in the horizontal direction cuts all these fibres more or less transversely, so that the cut surface presents a grey colour inter- spersed with white spots of variable size, ac- cording as the bundles have been cut trans- versely or obliquely; but when the section is made in the oblique direction, as above di- rected, then the surface presents a striated ap- pearance like numerous and regular white veins in a dark marble, the bundles of fibres being cut lengthways. In tracing the bundles of fibres through the corpus striatum, we find that they divide and subdivide and occasionally anastomose. Each subdivision becomes clothed as it were with grey matter, which fills up the space between it and the adjacent ones. The grey matter en- sheathes these bundles of fibres, as the areolar tissue does the fascicles of coarse muscles, and it may be dissected away from them, as we remove the areolar tissue from the muscular bundles. It is an important problem to determine the exact source of these fibres and their precise destination. There can be no doubt that many of them are continuous with the inferior plane of the crus cerebri. Of those, the major part are usually supposed to pass through to the white substance of the hemisphere, and some no doubt proceed no farther than the corpus striatum. The other fibres which are found in this body may be viewed as taking their point of departure from its vesicular matter, and radiating, some outwards into the centrum ovale, others backwards to the optic thalamus, forming a bond of connection with that body. It must be borne in mind that, as the corpus striatum is a body of considerable thickness, these fibres which emerge from it must pro- ceed in very different planes and with varying degrees of obliquity. Other fibres are found in the corpora striata, which however do not contribute to its striation. These are the fibres of the anterior commissure. From a comparison of the small amount of fibrous matter in the inferior plane of the crus cerebri with the immense mass which forms the white substance of the hemispheres, (even if we exclude those fibres which form com- missures,) it is impossible to suppose that the latter is derived from the former only; nor, indeed, can it be admitted that even the greater part of the fibrous matter of the hemispheres is continuous with that of the crura, whether on their superior or inferior plane. A con- siderable portion of them doubtless, when traced from the hemispheres downwards, will be found not to pass below the corpora striata or optic thalamus. We may regard the corpus striatum as a mass of grey matter with fibres implanted in it which connect it with the other parts of the encephalon. These parts are, 1st, the hemispheres ; 2d, the optic thalami; 3d, the crura cerebri, mesocephale, and medulla ob- longata. Of the°e last fibres it is probable, (but I am disposed to think far from certain,) that some of those which form the inferior layer of the crus pass through the corpora striata, and diverge among the other fibres of the centrum ovale. Thus the corpora striata are connected to the optic thalami by fibres which pass from their concave or inner border to those bodies; to the convolutions of the brain by fibres continuous with some of those which form the white sub- stance of the hemisphere, and we have seen that the convolutions of the insula have a very close relation to them; to the mesocephale and medulla oblongata by the fibres which form the inferior layer of the crus; and to each other by those which, emerging from them, contribute to form the corpus callosum, and also by the anterior commissure. The vesicular matter of the corpora striata does not differ from that of the convolutions. It is traversed by a multitude of fibres. These,