360 MILK. animal charcoal, yields us by nitration and evaporation pure crystals of aposepedine. This substance has the following properties : it is somewhat bitter to the taste, very slightly so- luble in alcohol, soluble in water, and of greater specific gravity than that fluid. It sub- limes when heated strongly, but always un- dergoes a partial decomposition. It contains sulphur. In addition to aposepedine, cheese when decomposing has been found to contain acetic acid, acetates of ammonia and potassa, chloride of potassium, ammoniaco-phosphate of soda, margarate and phosphate of lime, and a peculiar extractive matter. I shall now proceed to consider the sugar of milk which is left in the whey after the sepa- ration of the cheese by rennet, and exists in solution with the salts of the milk, lactic acid, and animal extractive matter. Sugar of milk may be obtained from whey by evaporating it to the consistence of a syrup, and setting it aside for a length of time, when small granular crystals of the principle are observed to deposit. The following are the principal qualities of sugar of milk. It has a sweetish taste, the grains crushing with dif- ficulty between the teeth; its specific gravity is 1.543. It contains about 12 per cent, of water, which may be separated by carefully fusing it; when fused it is still quite white if the heat be not too strongly urged. It is solu- ble with difficulty in water, requiring three parts of boiling water and six of cold for that purpose. It is very slightly soluble in alcohol, and quite insoluble in ether. When acted on by concentrated nitric acid it becomes trans- formed into a mixture of oxalic, malic, and muric acids. By the action of caustic potassa it is changed to a brown-coloured bitter mass, which is insoluble in alcohol. Sugar of milk has been stated to be in- capable of undergoing the alcoholic fermen- tation; but late experiments by Hess (Poggen- dorff, Annalen der Physick) shew that such will occur, and an intoxicating liquor has been long known among the Tartars, which is pre- pared from the milk of the mare, and to which they give the name of Koumiss. Sugar of milk has been analysed byBerzelius: including its 12 per cent, of water, its composition is as follows: Carbon.... 40.125 or 1 atom, Hydrogen.. 6.762 or 2 atoms, Oxygen.... 53.113 or 1 atom: or deducting the 12 per cent, of water, Carbon.... 45.94 or 5 atoms, Hydrogen.. 6.00 or 8 atoms, Oxygen.... 48.06 or 4 atoms. It will be observed, on comparing the ana- lysis of hydrous sugar of milk with that of starch, that they accord very nearly, and sugar of milk is convertible, as is the case with starch, into true sugar, by the action of sulphuric acid; these facts strongly point out the curious ap- proach to vegetable matter which is made by this constituent of an animal secretion. After the crystallization of the sugar of milk from the whey, we have left in solution, accord- ing to the experiments of Berzelius, lactic acid and lactates, chloride of potassium, an alkaline phosphate, phosphates of lime and magnesia, and traces of oxide of iron. I shall not here enter upon the question whether or not lactic acid be the peculiar acid of milk, or whether the substance receiving that name be only a modification of the acetic ; the matter is to be found noticed at length in the 7th volume of the French edition of Ber- zelius' Chemistry. For my own part I can only wish that one quarter of the animal acids mentioned in our modern chemical works had the same right to be distinguished as peculiar animal principles. Mons. Lassaigne, in his work bearing date 1836, when speaking of lactic acid, says, " regard e pendant long temps comme de l'acide acetique modifie par une matiere organique, M. Berzelius a etabli d'une maniere incontestable sa veritable nature." Anhydrous lactic acid has the following ulti- mate composition. Carbon 50.50 Hydrogen 3.60 Oxygen 43.90 Berzelius' analysis of skimmed cow's milk is as follows: Caseous matter with some butter 2.600 Sugar of milk 3.500 Extractive, lactic acid, and lactates 0.600 Chloride of potassium 0.170 Alkaline phosphate 0.025 Earthy phosphates, trace of oxide of iron 0.220 Water 92.875 The cream from this milk yielded the follow- ing result: Butter 4.5 Caseous matter 3.5 Whey 92.0 The specific gravity of this milk was 1.0348, and that of the cream 1.0244. A specimen of cow's milk which I lately examined was of sp. grav. 1.0338, and its solid contents 121.85 in 1000 parts. The ashes of cow's milk, according to Pfaff and Schwartz, are composed of phosphates of lime, magnesia, and iron, phosphate of soda, chloride of potassium, and soda, which, before incineration, had existed in combination with lactic acid. They found 1000 parts of the milk yielded 3.742 parts of ash. According to the experiments of Van Stip- trian, Luiscius, and Bondt, the proportion of cream which separates from cow's milk is about 4 per cent, of its weight. They ob- tained from milk 2.68 per cent, of butter, 8.95 of casein, and 3.60 per cent, of sugar of milk. The first milk which is observed in the breast afier parturition has received the name of colos- trum ; it differs somewhat from ordinary milk. It has been stated by some authorities that scarcely any cream can be obtained from the colostrum, and that no butter can be obtained by churning. According to Stiptrian, Luiscius, and Bondt, however, the colostrum from the cow yields 11.7 per cent, of cream, 3 of butter, and 18.75 of cheese. They state the specific gravity of the colostrum at 1.072; dried and in- cinerated it yielded 5^ per cent, of ash. They