NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Meninges.) 645 be attached in a cluster to the same stem. The fact that epithelial particles may be seen upon the surface of the membranous sac of some of the bodies is sufficient proof that it is derived from arachnoid membrane. If this be ad- mitted, then it seems impossible to come to any other conclusion than that the pia mater is the seat of the primary deposit, and this opi- nion is confirmed by the fact that we meet with the Pacchionian bodies on the internal pro- cesses of the pia mater, when we have no evi- dence of the existence of arachnoid membrane. Or it might be conjectured that these bodies indicate a degenerate condition of the elemen- tary particles of the superficial layer of the grey matter of certain convolutions, produced by frequent irritation. Are the Pacchionian bodiesnatural structures? The great frequency with which these bodies are met with in the various situations above- mentioned, has induced many, even in the present day, to regard them as normal struc- tures, the physiological office of which is as yet unknown. But there are many facts which strongly militate against such a conclusion^ In the first place it may be observed that Pacchi- onian bodies never occur in the earliest periods of life. In the course of a long experience in anatomical investigations I have never seen them at a period antecedent to six years. The brothers Wenzel, who made a series of special examinations with a view to determine this question, make the following statement. In children, from birth to the third year, these bodies, if they ever occur, must be very few. From the seventh to the twentieth year they sometimes are numerous. From the latter pe- riod to the fortieth year their number is consi- derable, and the nearer we approach the fortieth year the greater does it become. Lastly, fronv the fortieth to the one hundredth year these bodies are found in great numbers. It must be further remarked that even at those periods of life when the Pacchionian bodies are found in greatest numbers, cases fre- quently occur in which no trace of them can be found. There is likewise the greatest variety as to their number and size, in different indivi- duals of the same age. It has always occurred to me to find them most numerous in cases where I had reason to know that the brain had been subject to fre- quent excitement during life. In persons ad- dicted to the excessive use of spirituous liquors, in those of irritable temperament and who were frequently a prey to violent and exciting passions, they are almost uniformly highly developed. The Pacchionian bodies are peculiar to the human subject. Nothing similar to them has been found in any of the inferior classes of animals. In reference, then, to the question, what is the nature of these bodies, I have no difficulty in stating my opinion that the evidence greatly preponderates in favour of their morbid origin ; that they are the product of a chronic very gradual irritation due to more or less frequent functional excitement of the brain itself. It is not unlikely that the friction to which the "opposed surfaces of the arachnoid are conti- nually subjected in the movements of the brain, especially when they are of a more rapid and violent kind, as under states of cerebral excitement, may contribute to the develope- ment of many of the appearances connected with these bodies. The opaque spots which are of such frequent occurrence upon the sur- face of the heart may be quoted as an example of a morbid change, very commonly met with, and resulting probably from the friction against each other of opposed serous surfaces. Were the Pacchionian bodies normal structures, they would not be so frequently absent from brains which afforded every other indication of being in a healthy state ; nor should we find opacity of the arachnoid (a decidedly unhealthy con- dition) so commonly coexistent with the full developement of them. Again, were they a necessary part of the healthy organism, we might expect to find them more constant as regards size, number, and the extent of surface over which they were placed. OJ the ligamentum dentatum (serrated membrane of Gordon).—This structure forms a part of the mechanical arrangements con- nected with the spinal cord and the roots of its nerves. It is found in the subarachnoid space, adhering on the one hand to the pia mater, and, on the other, attached at certain intervals to the dura mater. The ligamentum dentatum consists of a nar- row longitudinal band, adhering by its inner straight border to the pia mater on each lateral surface of the spinal cord, midway between the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves, reaching from the highest point in the cervical region down to the filiform prolongation with which it becomes incorporated. Its outer border exhibits a series of tooth-like trian- gular processes which are inserted by then- apices into the dura mater. The first pointed process, which is longer than the rest and less triangular in shape, is inserted into the dura mater on the margin of the occipital bone, where it stands in relation with some parts of interest. The posterior root of the sub-occi- pital nerve, and the filaments of origin and the resultant trunk of the spinal accessory, are on a plane posterior to it. The vertebral artery and the ninth pair of nerves are anterior to it. The number of teeth varies from eighteen to twenty- two. The last is attached to the dura mater about the level of the first or second lumbar vertebra. The points of attachment are be- tween the points of exit of the spinal nerves being almost always nearer the lower than the upper nerve. The intervals between each pair of dentated processes vary in different regions of the spine as the distances between the roots of the nerves vary. At its insertion into the dura mater each process pins down the visceral and parietal layers of the arachnoid membrane probably piercing them to reach the fibrous membrane. At its lowest part, a little above the extremity of the cord, the denticulated margin ceases, and the longitudinal portion may be traced downwards, gradually dimi- nishing in size, along each side of the filiform prolongation of the pia mater. The dentated ligament has to the naked eye