166 NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. an irregularly pentagonal or hexagonal outline with sharp or rounded angles in proportion to the smaller or greater quantity of Glisson's capsule contained within the liver. Each lobule is divided upon its exterior into a base and a capsular surface. The base (Jig- 34, 4) corresponds with one extremity of the lobule, is flattened and rests upon an hepatic vein, which is thence named svh-tobular. The capsular surface (jig. 34, 3, 3) includes the rest of the periphery of the lobule, and has received its designation from being inclosed in a cellular capsule derived from the capsule of Glisson. In the centre of each lobule is a small vein, the intra-lobular (fig. 34, 5, 6, fig. 35, 3) which is formed by the conver- gence of six or eight minute venules from the rounded processes situated upon the surface of the lobule. The intra-lobular vein thus con- stituted takes its course through the centre of the longitudinal axis of the lobule, pierces the middle of its base, and opens into the sub-lo- bular vein. The circumference of the lobule with the exception of its base, which is always closely attached to a sub-lobular vein, is con- nected by means of its cellular capsule with the capsular surfaces of surrounding lobules. The cellular interval between the lobules is the in- terlobular fissure (fig. 34, 8, fig. 35, 2), and the angular interstices formed by the appo- sition of several lobules are the interlobular spaces (fig. 34, 9, fig. 35, 1). Fig. 35. Anyular lobules in a state of anaemia. From Kiernan s paper. No. 1, interlobular spaces, containing the larger interlobular branches of the portal vein, hepatic artery and duct; 2, interlobular fissures ; 3, intra- lobular veins formed by minute venules which con- verge towards the centre of the lobules. The lobules present considerable variety of form dependent upon their situation and upon the manner in which they are examined. For instance, the section of a lobule divided trans- versely has an irregularly pentagonal or hexa- gonal figure, and longitudinally a foliated ap- pearance. The lobules of the centre of the liver are angular and smaller than those of the surface, on account of the pressure to which, from their position, they are submitted by sur- rounding lobules. They are also more an- gular in some animals than in man. The sur- face of the liver of the cat, in which the portal vein is injected, has a beautiful reticulated ap- pearance produced by angular meshes of an hexagonal figure; the hexagonal outline being formed by the interlobular fissures, reddened by the injection in the minute branches of the portal vein, and the included area by the lo- bule viewed upon its transverse diameter. In a section of the liver made from the free margin to the posterior border in the direction of the hepatic veins, the lobules are found to be larger than in a section made transversely to those vessels. The lobules of the exterior, par- ticularly on the concave side and posterior border, are for the same reason larger from lying obliquely to the surface and correspond- ing in direction with the course of the sub- lobular veins. They are also more rounded from the absence of compression by surround- ing lobules. But one appearance described by Kiernan is peculiarly characteristic of the lo- bules which form the surface of the liver, the superficial lobules. The word surface in this instance does not refer simply to the periphery of the organ, but also to the various canals channelled through its interior for the passage of the portal vein, hepatic ducts, and hepatic artery, and also for the main trunks of the he- patic vein, " all these canals being" as it were " tubular inflections inwards of the super- ficies of the liver." The superficial lobules (fig. 34, 2, fig. 35) are not terminated by a rounded extremity like those of the centre, but are flat and apparently incomplete, and as though cut across by a transverse incision. This peculiar form gives to the anatomist a natural surface which affords all the advantages for ob- servation of a transverse section, and enables him to detect by external examination the rela- tive condition of both the central portion and surface of the lobule. In these lobules also the intra-lobular hepatic vein, instead of being entirely concealed within the lobule, commences directly from the flat surface. A knowledge of this structure, says Kiernan, " enables us in in- jecting the hepatic veins to limit the injection to this system of vessels, which is effected by withdrawing the syringe when the injection ap- pears in minute points upon the surface of the liver." Occasionally double lobules, or lobules having two intra-lobular veins, are seen upon the surface. " Each lobule," according to Kiernan, " is composed of a plexus of biliary ducts, of a venous plexus formed by branches of the portal vein, of a branch (intra-lobular) of an hepatic vein, and of minute arteries; nerves and absorb- ents, it is to be presumed, also enter into their formation, but cannot be traced into them." " Examined with the microscope, a lobule is apparently composed of numerous minute bodies of a yellowish colour, and of various forms, connected with each other by vessels. These minute bodies are the acini of Malpighi." " If an uninjected lobule be examined and contrasted with an injected lobule, it will be found that the acini of Malpighi in the former are identical with the injected lobular plexus of the latter, and the bloodvessels in both will be easily distinguished from the ducts." Glisson's capsule is the web of cellular tissue which envelopes the hepatic artery, portal vein, and ductus communis choledochus during their passage through the right border of the lesser"