NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Meninges.) C37 culs-de-sac at the orifices through which the nerves escape. Fig. 367. Transverse section of the same on a level with the fifth cervical nerves. (After Arnold.) The same parts are displayed as in the last figure, and the reflection of the arachnoid at the exit of the nerves is seen. af, anterior fissure ; n, n, spinal nerves. In the interval between each pair of nerves, we find a triangular process of fibrous mem- brane which is inserted by its apex into the dura mater. This process lies in the sub- arachnoid cavity and adheres by its base to the pia mater. It seems to pierce both layers of the arachnoid, or to pin them down, as it were, to the dura mater. At the foramen magnum the spinal arach- noid may be seen to be continuous with that of the brain, and here its visceral layer invests the medulla oblongata loosely. Interiorly we trace the membrane down quite to the lowest extremity of the dura mater, and in this region the visceral layer is particularly loose and free, as it lies over the cauda equina. When the dura mater is carefully slit up along either the anterior or the posterior surface, the arachnoid sac is laid open. It does not always happen that the parietal layer separates very readily from the visceral: frequently the two layers adhere firmly at several minute points, yet this adhesion is effected without any connecting membrane, and appears to arise from the two layers becoming dried at several corres- ponding points, and thus being, as it were, glued together. We may frequently observe this in specimens that have been some time kept in spirits. This point is deserving of notice, as these adhesions might be (and indeed they have been) noted as of a morbid nature. The visceral layer of the spinal arachnoid is connected to the pia mater by means of a num- ber of long filaments of fibrous tissue which in- terlace slightly, and in the areola thus formed the fluid is contained. This tissue is most dis- tinct and abundant in the cervical region, and exists in very small quantity in the dorsal. It ceases nearly altogether over the cauda equina. Numerous minute bloodvessels are also to be found in it passing from the pia mater to the arachnoid. Majendie gives to this tissue the name " tissu cellulo-vasculaire sub-arachnoide.'' In general the adhesion of the visceral layer of the arachnoid to the subjacent pia mater is closer along the posterior than along the ante- rior surface of the cord. Along the posterior surface of the cord on the median line, the sub-arachnoid space is divided by means of a septum, which is most perfect in the dorsal region, but which in the lumbar and cervical regions is cribriform or pectiniform, as may be shown by pouring quicksilver on either side of it, which will be retained in the dorsal region, but will readily pass from right to left in the other situations. It is highly probable that this septum is a mo- dified portion of the sub-arachnoid tissue. The existence of this septum (erroneously described as complete) dividing the posterior part of the sub-arachnoid space into a right and a left portion, appears to have led to the opinion that this space is lined by another serous membrane, which has been called the internal arachnoid, by which the fluid is sup- posed to be secreted, and that the septum is formed by the reflection of its visceral into its parietal layer along the median plane. But there are many objections to this hypothesis. In the first place, if the septum were formed by the reflection of a serous membrane, it would be complete, and not a very imperfect one such as it is ; it ought to resemble the mediastinum in the chest, or one of the processes of the perito- neum in the abdomen. Secondly, it is quite contrary to all experience to find the cavity of a serous membrane in the normal state traversed by a quantity of filamentous tissue, as the sub- arachnoid space is throughout a great part of its extent. Thirdly, were there a serous membrane in this space, the microscope ought to detect an epithelium on its inner surface, but such a struc- ture does not exist here. Lastly, such a serous membranemust necessarily be continued into the encephalic sub-arachnoid space. But the close adhesion of the visceral layer of the arachnoid to the pia mater, opposite to the prominent parts of the cerebral convolutions, seems quite incompatible with such an arrangement. Cerebral arachnoid.—The cerebral portion of the arachnoid exhibits essentially the same general arrangement as the spinal portion. Its parietal layer adheres very intimately to the pia mater at certain points, leaving in the intervals a considerable space for the accumulation of liquid. If we trace it over the surface of the hemispheres, it will be found to give them that smooth and uniform character which is always distinct on the recent healthy brain. The arachnoid passes from convolution to convolu- tion, adhering closely to the pia mater over the most convex portions of those convolutions, but allowing that membrane to separate from it in the intervals between them, and to dip down to the bottom of the sulci. Hence liquid accumulated in the cerebral sub-arachnoid space will be found to take the direction of the inter- gyral sulci, and to cause the membrane to bulge opposite to them; and if air be blown underneath the arachnoid, it will be found to take the tortuous course of these sulci. The arachnoid sinks into the great longitu- dinal fissure of the brain, lining the surfaces which bound it on each side, and passing across from right to left beneath the inferior margin of the falx, and above the corpus cal- losum. On the base of the brain, the arachnoid has the same arrangement on those parts where there are convolutions, as on the superior and lateral surfaces of the hemispheres. It passes