LYMPHATIC AND LACTEAL SYSTEM. 223 quantity of lymph; the comparison therefore between chyle and lymph has never been fairly instituted. Regretting with others the defici- ency in our knowledge of the relative compo- sitions of these important fluids, which, though derived from such different sources, enter in combination the already circulating blood, I performed some experiments, which need not here be described in detail, for the purpose of ascertaining the quantity of chyle that might be procured from the vasa efferentia of the mesenteric glands, and found that by a little care and contrivance as much as half an ounce of perfectly pure chyle might be procured from a horse after a full meal. I now applied to Dr. G. O. Rees, well known to me as an able and zealous investigator of the too much neglected science of animal chemistry, and re- quested him to undertake the analysis of the unmixed chyle and lymph, and to institute the desired comparison between them. Dr. Rees kindly acquiesced in my proposal, and has published the result of his inquiry in one of the late numbers of the London Medical Gazette, from which I transcribe his analysis with some of his observations, the whole of which are well worthy of perusal. The fluids in question were procured from a donkey, killed seven hours after a full meal of oats and beans. Analysis of chyle and lymph before reaching the thoracic duct, by Dr. G. O. Rees— Chyle. Lymph. Water 90-237 . . 96-536 Albuminous matter 3-.516 . . 1 200 Fibrinous matter 0-370 .. 0*120 Animal extractive matter so-) 0.332 0-240 luble in water and alcohol S Animal extractive matterso- } ^233 1-319 luble in water only . . . . S Fatty matter 3-601 .. a trace. ("Alkaline chloride,"! I sulphate and carbo-I Salts.-^ nate, with traces of MV711 .. 0-585 I alkaline phosphate, | {_ oxide of iron .... J 100-000 100 00 Dr. Rees describes the albuminous matter of chyle as possessing a dead-white colour, which he attributes to the admixture of a substance of a peculiar character, and upon which he conceives it probable that the white colour of the chyle depends. Will further investigation prove this peculiar substance to be derived from the chyle granule? or is the chyle granule formed of a combination of this substance with fatty matter ? This peculiar matter, Dr. Rees states, is readily obtained by agitating chyle with a:ther, when the mixture speedily separates into three distinct strata, the centre stratum being the substance in question; a similar matter, he observes, may be obtained from saliva by treating it in the same way. He found it to react as follows :— " It was insoluble in alcohol, both hot and cold—insoluble in ecther—miscible with water, and soluble in liquor potassae. When it had been dried on platinum foil, the addition of water made it pulpy, and it was found still to be miscible with that fluid, from which, how- ever, it separated in flakes on the addition of diacetate of lead." I have now examined each part of the lym- phatic system in detail, and on reviewing it as a whole, with the mind fully emancipated from the old erroneous views in physiology, and with a full conviction of the truth of the modern discoveries with respect to imbibition, endosmosis, and exosmosis, including venous absorption, as established by Magendie, Du- trochet, Segalas, Delille, and others, and ad- mitted by Muller, Panizza, Fohmann, Lauth, Breschet, and all the modern investigators in this interesting and intricate field of inquiry, in which 1 regret not to be able to mention the name of one of our own countrymen since the time of Cruickshank, Hewson, and Sheldon —in bringing, I say, with our present improved state of knowledge in physics and physiology, the mind to bear upon the subject of the lym- phatic system, it appears to me that we are justified in materially modifying our opinions, both with respect to the functions exercised by this system of vessels, as well as with regard to its anatomical arrangement, which has been made to depend so much upon the precon- ceived physiological notions respecting it. I venture then to suggest that we are going too far in attributing to the lymphatic (since the veins also absorb) the important and universal function of interstitial absorption of the old material, previous to the deposition of the new, in the process of growth and nutrition; that it is without sufficient proof that we admit the ulcerative process to be carried on solely through the agency of the lymphatic system, or that the removal of all morbid growths or depositions is effected by the one order of ab- sorbent vessels unassisted by the other; and indeed that there would be nothing repugnant to sound reasoning, or at variance with the pre- sent improved state of our knowledge, were we to confine the functions of the lymphatic system more within the bounds ascribed to the lacteal vessels during the process of digestion, viz. to select and prepare nutritious materials for the purpose of sanguification, and to deposit them in the already circulating current. Descriptive anatomy. — I now proceed to describe the exact course which the lymphatic vessels take in the different parts of the body, the position and number of the absorbent glands which they traverse, and the precise direction, mode of commencement, and termi- nation of the two principal trunks, into which they pour their contents. This part of our subject, the descriptive anatomy, neither requires nor admits of that rigid exactness which is absolutely necessary in tracing out the ramifications of the blood- vessels. In the first place, the surgeon, in the performance of his operations and in the treat- ment of wounds, scarcely finds it necessary to take the lymphatic vessels into consideration. To relieve the stricture in strangulated femoral