62 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. influence on the constitution : it is not until it arrives at the second or third stage that it pro- duces any very remarkable alteration in the health ; but the pain about the commencement of the third stage is sometimes so violent as to deprive the patient of sleep and appetite. When the part is distended by abscesses, the pain is increased, but when these open or are opened, although temporary relief follows, slow fever supervenes, the discharge becomes sanious and foetid, and nocturnal sweats and colliquative diarrhoea shew themselves, together or alternately. Anatomical characters of the chronic stru- mous arthritis of the knee.—The anatomical examination of a limb which has been ampu- tated on account of a white swelling, or after the death of the patient, demonstrates different alterations which disease produces in the struc- ture of the soft parts surrounding the diseased articulation, and in that of the bones, synovial membranes, and cartilages which compose it. The skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue are not greatly altered from their natural condition, except that the latter is usually infiltrated with a gelatinous matter, as is also the cellular struc- ture, which lies deeper, viz. that which unites the femur with the inferior part of the cruraeus muscle, as well as that behind the ligament of the patella, and that also which occupies the intervals between the condyles of the femur behind the crucial ligaments. These parts are equally infiltrated by a gelatinous fluid, of more or less density. The whole of this cel- lular structure presents the appearance of a soft, spongy, homogeneous mass. The liga- ments which secure the junction of the bones of the joint seem themselves involved in this morbid change of the surrounding cellular structure, so that the tumefied ligaments and other structures seem to be confounded toge- ther, and to present an appearance almost like a fibro-cartilaginous mass. " Thus have we seen," says Boyer,* " the fatty cellular tissue which is placed behind the ligamentum patella?, so dense and thickened that it formed but one mass in which ligament and cellular tissue seem confounded together." All these ap- pearances are present even before suppuration has occurred. If the disease had existed for any length of time so as to have arrived at the period of suppuration, we find, among the structures thus altered, that symptomatic chro- nic abscesses have been formed. One extre- mity of them we observe usually communicat- ing with the knee-joint, while the other reaches the surface, and presents one or more openings which had become fistulous. These abscesses and fistulous canals we find always lined by a false membrane. The muscles which surround the diseased joint are pale and wasted, and the cellular tissue which is found in their thickness is ordinarily more or less infiltrated with the peculiar glairy matter above alluded to. The tendons of the flexor muscles are generally re- tracted and preserve their normal appearance. The nerves we have had occasion to observe to be thicker than natural. These are the altera- tions which are noticed in the soft parts, as we pursue an anatomical examination down to the bones and ultimate structures of the joint it- self. It is probable, however, that these changes will not be found to have occurred unless the disease has existed for some time previously in the centre of the bones them- selves. Sir B. Brodie, Lloyd, and others are of opinion that this strumous disease begins in the centre of the heads of the bones of the knee-joint, in the cancellous structure ;* and Rust has satisfied himself that the membra- nous tissue which lines the cancellous struc- ture of the bones is the seat of the first morbid action. They have found the interior of the spongy tissue of the bones more vascular than natural, and with much apparent justice con- ceive them to be inflamed. These changes, then, in the interior of the bone they believe to constitute the anatomical characters of the first period of the disease, and that when the parts external to the joint become swelled and infiltrated by the gelatinous matter above alluded to, the second period is fully established. When the second period has commenced, and the soft parts are excited into irritation, if opportunities occur of examining the inte- rior of the bones, they will be found to be sof- tened and easily penetrated by a knife. The synovial membrane contains an unusual quan- tity of fluid, and the bones will undergo fur- ther changes as the disease grows worse. These structures become still softer, their cancellous structure is found filled with a yellowish cheese- like matter. The bones, which in the first pe- riod were in an hyperaemic condition, are now found to be less vascular, and portions even become necrosed, so that it is not un- common in advanced cases to find in the in- terior of the joint portions of dead bone. In these cases the spongy portion of the bones seems so altered in structure as to appear half dissolved, and to contain a sanious and foetid matter in its substance. The periosteum in- vesting the bones in the neighbourhood of the diseased knee is very much thickened and easily detached. It is surprising to what an extent this strumous disease may have ad- vanced in the bones and in the external parts around the joints while the synovial structures and cartilages remain but partially engaged. The writer has lately been compelled to ampu- tate a thigh for this disease of the knee in con- sequence of the constitutional symptoms which it excited in the system. In this case he dis- covered that while the bones and soft parts externally were far advanced in the second stage of the disease, the synovial membrane and cartilages were perfectly natural. When, however, the disease has advanced far, and the fistulous orifices are found to communi- cate with the interior of the joint, we find that the synovial membrane presents appear- ances of morbid action having gone on in it, and when the puriform fluid contained in it is wiped away, that the surface of this mem- * Maladies Chirurgicales. * Russel entirely differs from them.