LACRYMAL ORGANS. '17 cepting only the true cetacea, this fold is deve- loped into the membrana nictitans, which is disposed vertically within the horizontal eyelids at the nasal canthus, and is capable of being pushed more or less towards the temporal can- thus, over the front of the eyeball. The membrana nictitans derives firmness from a thin plate of cartilage, which has some- times a sort of pedicle passing backwards by the inner side of the eyeball. In the sheep, for example, the cartilage of the membrana nicti- tans is of the shape of the letter T. The cross top forms the margin of the membrane; and die leg, closely embraced by the glandule of Har- der, extends backwards between the eyeball and inner wall of the orbit. The cartilage of the membrana nictitans, unlike the tarsal car- tilages, is true cartilage, with nucleated cor- puscles. In the elephant it is said there is a muscular arrangement for carrying the membrana nictitans outwards over the front of the eyeball. I think I have observed in the rabbit that the mem- brana nictitans receives part of the expansion of the levator of the upper eyelid. The membrana nictitans has not, however, like the third eyelid of birds, any proper muscular apparatus; and when it is moveable, the motion is produced by the eyeball, on its being retracted deeper into the orbit by the retractor muscle, which dis- places and presses forwards the cartilaginous pedicle above descriljed. Hie structure called semilunar fold in man, and membrana nictitans in quadruped mam- mifera, has attained its greatest development in birds, in which it is called the third eyelid. It is transparent and capable of covering the whole front of the eyeball. En- closed in the conjunctival reduplication there is a fibro-cartilaginous structure, very thin and membranous. Of a triangular form, the third eyelid has its free margin oblique from above downwards, and from without inwards. In the state of repose it is retracted and folded verti- cally in the nasal angle of the eye. The third eyelid is drawn over the front of the eye by a very peculiar mechanism consisting of two muscles, the slender tendon of one of which runs through an elongated loop in the broad free end of the other. This muscular apparatus is supplied by the nervus abducens. The quadratus is a broad thin trapezoidal muscle. It arises from the upper and posterior part of the eyeball, behind the prominence of its largest circumference. From this point its fibres, which form a thin but broad fleshy belly, descend towards the optic nerve, converging somewhat. It then terminates abruptly in a free tendinous margin, close to the upper part of the optic nerve. In this free tendinous mar- gin, which is considerably narrower than the origin, there is an elongated loop or canal, in which the tendon of the other muscle plays. Pyrumidalis muscle.—The fleshy part of this muscle is comparatively smaller. It arises by a broad curved base from the lower part of the eyeball, opposite the preceding. In its ascent towards the optic nerve, the muscle be- comes contracted, and at last ends in a slender VOh- in. tendon on the nasal side of the optic nerve- The tendon immediately enters the pulley-canal in the extreme margin of the quadratus, and in traversing it turns round the upper part of the optic nerve. Thus changing its original direc- tion, it passes downwards on the temporal side of the optic nerve to the lower part of the eye- ball, lound the prominent circumference of which it turns to get to the front of it, when it immediately enters the lower angle of the third eyelid. Having entered, it di- vides into two parts, one of which expands and runs between the layers of conjunctiva, forming the third eyelid, to the nasal angle of the eye ; the other passes along and forms the pretty firm free margin of the eyelid in question. Having traversed the whole margin of this and arrived at the upper part of the eyeball, it is inserted into the sclerotica just at the middle of the line whence the quadratus derives its origin. It is by this arrangement that the superior angle of the third eyelid is attached to the sclerotica, and consequently rendered immoveable. By its own elasticity the third eyelid remains retracted at the nasal angle of the eye. In this state its tendinous margin is relaxed ; but when the two muscles just described contract, the tendon of the pyramidalis is drawn straight, and the third eyelid is thus stretched over the front of the eye. " From this curious disposition of the muscles," says Dr. Porteifield,* " it is easy to conceive, how this internal eyelid is extended over the cornea far enough to cover all the pupil, though the muscles themselves are con- tained in a small space. Every body knows, that the contraction of all muscles is only in a certain given proportion to their lengtli; and therefore that the eyelid might be drawn far enough over the cornea, nature was obliged to make use of a long muscle, which could not be contained in so small a place as the orbit, without being bent or inflected ; and therefore the one muscle is bent upwards near the optic nerve, making an acute angle, where it passes through the perforated end of the other muscle, by which means its action is greatly increased. But its action is yet more increased by the contraction of the square muscle itself, which must draw the cord or tendon of the py- ramidal muscle which passes through it, through a space double of what it moves itself; and thus the membrana nictitans is extended far enough to cover the whole cornea though its muscles are contained in a small space." In Owls Nitzsch discovered a small bone on the lower surface of the bony ring of the sclerotica, ossiculum tuberculare, for the support of the long tendon of the pyramidalis. In par- rots the third eyelid is small. Among reptiles there is in chelonia and lizards a third eyelid much the same as in birds, but smaller and less moveable. It is moved only by a single muscle analogous to the pyramidalis of birds. " An allied struc- ture," says Midler, " is a spectacle-like trans- parent part in the lower eyelid of some lizards, * On the Eye, vol. i. p. 34. Edinburgh, 1759, H