LYMPHATIC AND LACTEAL SYSTEM. 210 simply presses the flaps back against the sides of the vessel, and thus no obstruction is offered to its onward course. The flap of a valve con- sists of a fold of the inner coat of the vessel, which, where a valve is to be formed, ceases to Fig. 48. t a, b, and c, lymphatic vessels inverted, giving three different views of the valves formed by the lining membrane. (After Bresehet.) line the vessel, and is reflected towards its inte- rior ; having reached half-way across, it is doubled upon itself, and returns to the side of the vessel, which it continues to line as if it had never been interrupted. The two layers of this fold adhere very firmly together so as to form a very delicate transparent sermlunar flap. It presents a convex attached, and a straight or slightly concave unattached edge; the former corresponds to a semilunar line on the interior of the vessel, the horns of which look towards the trunks of the system, where the lining mem- brane was reflected from and returned to the side of the vessel; the latter to the line of doubling Fig. 49. a, a front view of a valvular flap, b, a profile view of a lymphatic vessel and valvular flap; the lower halt' of 'he flap, or that nearest the base, is represented thicker than the rest. According to Lauth and Bresehet, this thicker portion is formed of all the coats of the vessels; the thinner portion, of the lining membrane only. (From Bresehet. J of the membrane upon itself; thus a little pouch is formed between the flap and the side of the vessel, which can only be filled by the fluid passing in one direction ; and as a valve is constituted of two such pouches, when they are filled the vessel is completely closed. Some anatomists conceive that a lamina of fibrous tissue intervenes between the layers of the fold. Bresehet, in his " Systeme Lymphatique," adopts Lauth's view of the structure of the valve. He describes the flap of a valve as composed of two parts, one thicker and situated at the base of the fold, the other forming the rest of the flap more thin and delicate. It is tins latter pirt which he conceives is formed by a doubling of the lining membrane only, while the thicker part, near the base, he has assured himself is produced by a prolongation which the fibrous coat sends inwards between the folds of the inner tunic. I have not been able to verify this description of the structure of the valve, but I have distinctly observed circular constrictions in the more bead-like lymphatics seen in the neighbourhood of some of the lymphatic glands, into the formation of which the fibrous coat does appear to enter. On laying open one of these vessels previously distended with quicksilver and dried, opposite the external constrictions, which were numerous, and not more than a line apart, valvular folds, differing from those hitherto described, were seen to project into the interior of the vessel; they did not completely close its cavity, hut left a circular or oval opening, through which the contents of the vessel might pass in either direction. These valvular constrictions re- sembled much the dried pyloric valve (Jig. 50, B) ; and I am inclined to believe, from their thickness, that they contain circular fibres de- rived from the middle coat, by which during life they may be able to close their vessels as perfectly as the pyloric valve closes the com- munication between the stomach and duode- num. In very many places there occur two semilunar folds (fig. 50, A), apparently formed of the lining membrane only, like the flaps of the ordinary valves, from which they differ, how- ever, in having their attached and unattached edges, as well as the flaps themselves, on the same plane, consequently not forming pouches, but a transverse though incomplete septum across the vessel. Each of these flaps extends only one-third across the vessel, and terminates by a crescentic edge, by which arrangement an elliptical opening is left in the central third of the vessel, between the two folds. This form of valve would appear to offer a partial obstruc- tion to the passage of the lymph in either direc- tion, as no provision is manifest by which these flaps would be made to fall against the sides of the vessel, either by the onward or retrograde course of its contents. I have frequently no- ticed a combination of the circular constriction with the semilunar flaps here described (Jig.50, C) , by which mechanism, supposing the former to be endowed with a vital contractility, the latter might he brought in contact, so as com- pletely to close the elliptical opening that would otherwise be left in the centre of the vessel. At the entrance of the lateral branches into the thoracic duct, or of one lymphatic into ano- ther, a valve will be found, of a somewhat diffe- rent form to those already described. It is com- posed of two semilunar flaps, seldom of equal size, arranged somewhat like the ilio-ccecal valve. One flap is occasionally so slightly developed that there appears but one large semilunar fold at the entrance of the vessel. At the union of some of these vessels with others, especially of those which lie nearly parallel with each other, no valve will be found, but simply a delined curved line, marking the orifice of communica- tion. The valves in the lymphatic system are very closely set together. The distance be- tween them varies much. In vessels of a line