MONOTREMATA. 383 called ' quadrigemina.' Well preserved speci- mens of Oniitborhynchus presented to me by Mr. Thomas Bell, surgeon R. N., in 1838, have ena- bled me to determine this question. There is neither corpus callosum nor septum lucidum in the Ornithorhynchus. The part described by Meckel as the corpus callosum corresponds with the fornix and hippocampal commissure, as it exists in the Marsupialia, excepting that the essential func- tion of the fornix, as a longitudinal commis- sure, uniting the hippocampus major with the olfactory lobe of the same hemisphere, is more exclusively maintained in the Ornithorhynchus, in consequence of the smaller size of the trans- verse band of fibres uniting the opposite hip- pocampi, and representing the first rudiment of the corpus callosum, as it appears in the development of the placental embryo. The thin internal and superior parietes of one lateral ventricle are wholly unconnected with those of the opposite ventricle. Meckel makes no mention of the fornix or hippocampus major: the latter forms a large pyramidal prominence at the outer and pos- terior part of the ventricle, and is confluent with the inferior and external parietes of that cavity. The corpus striatum is long and nar- row : the thalamus opticus small, and is united with its fellow by a soft commissure, which rises to the same level, whereby they appear to form a continuous body. The anterior com- missure is very large, as in the Marsupials. The posterior bigeminal body is much smaller than the anterior, and the trans- verse depression which divides them is very feebly marked: the longitudinal groove is equally feeble on the ' nates,' and is alto- gether absent in the ' testes,' which thus form a single small tubercle. Tt is in the condition of these parts, recognized, but too briefly no- ticed by Meckel, that the brain of the Orni- thorhynchus deviates most essentially from the Marsupialia, and offers the most direct step in the descent to the Oviparous type. The cerebellum is moderately large, highest in the middle, but with small lateral append- ages: the median or vermiform part is traversed by transverse furrows; and its vertical section exhibits an ' arbor vita;.' The medulla oblongata is broad and de- pressed : its inferior surface exhibits the corpora pyramidalia (fig. 181, a), the corpora ohvaria («'), which expand as they advance forwards, apparently in relation to the immense size of the trigeminal nerve. Their anterior extremi- ties are crossed by large trapezoid bodies (6), (figured by Meckel as the pons Varolii); and anterior to those is the true ' nodus er.cephali' (c), which is narrow, in correspondence with the small lateral lobes of the cerebellum; and from this there emerges on each side a large gan- glioid body (<•'), from which the trigeminal nerve (5) arises. The under surface of the medulla oblongata is traversed by a deep median lon- gitudinal groove. The brain of the Echidna is relatively larger, and its external surface is complicated by convolutions.* It weighs twelve drachms and thirty grains avoirdupoise, and bears a proportion to the weight of the body as 1 to 50. The cerebral hemispheres conceal the bigeminal bodies, but do not extend over the cerebellum. The broad posterior part of each hemisphere is disposed in three nearly parallel transverse convolutions, the outer extremities of which Fig. 182. Bruin of the Echidna, right hemisphere dissected. ( Original.) incline forwards (fig. 182); anterior to these is a larger convolution bent upon itself at a right angle, one crus running transversely; the other longitudinally, and forming the inner boundary of the anterior half of each hemisphere: this convolution was not divided by a transverse anfractuosity, as in the figure in the ' Voyage de la Favorite,' loc. cit. On the outside of the longitudinal convolution there are two or three oblique folds which converge towards the contracted anterior part of the brain, or descend to its under surface: besides these principal and more constant convolutions there are a few smaller and less regular ones at the lateral and inferior parts of the hemispheres, especially on the great natiform protuberances. The principal anfractuosities sink more than a line's depth into the substance of the he- misphere : the posterior convolutions are con- tinued upon the median surface of the he- misphere, and interlock with those of the cor- responding hemisphere. The depth of the me- dian fissure of the hemispheres is from five to six lines: the hippocampal commissure (o) one line and a half in antero-posterior diameter is seen at the bottom of the fissure which divides the hemispheres. The dura mater in the Echidna is thin and * See the figures and description of the external characters of the brain of the Echidna, given by MM. Eydoux and Laurent in the 'Voyage dc la Favorite,' 8vo. 1839, torn. v. pi. 9, p. 161.