NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Encephalon.) 681 of the pons Varolii are the least curved, and in some rare instances the uppermost ones ex- hibit no more curvature than the posterior fibres of the pons. Both Santorini and Rolando have figured these fibres in their most highly developed state. The delineation given by the latter au- thor, whilst it serves admirably as a diagram to show the general relation of the fibres, repre- sents them as more numerous and distinct than I have ever had an opportunity of seeing them, and likewise exhibits them as passing upwards through the pons. This is certainly not the case. These fibres appear to incorporate them- selves with the restiform bodies which connect the medulla oblongata with the cerebellum. It seems to me that the arciform fibres may be properly regarded as a part of the same system as those which form the pons Varolii. They are largely developed in some quadru- peds, although they assumeadiflerentform. The fibres which constitute what Treviranus called the trapezium, appear to answer the same purpose as the arciform fibres ; but, by reason of the non-developement of the olivary bodies on the exterior of the medulla oblongata, they do not take the curved course, which cha- racterizes them in the human subject. These fibres cross the anterior surface of the medulla oblongata parallel to but distinct from the pons Varolii. They connect the pyramids and res- tiform bodies on each side. By their continuation upwards the pyramidal bodies form a connection with the mesocephale, and also with the hemispheres of the brain through the medium principally of the corpora striata, and perhaps also of the optic thalami. Through the decussation of fibres which takes placejust before the pyramids sink intothe spinal cord, each cerebral hemispheie is connected with that half of the spinal cord which belongs to the opposite side of the body. By this ar- rangement is explained the influence which cerebral disease exercises upon the side of the body opposite to that on which it occurs. If the right hemisphere be irritated, convulsions are produced on the left side ; if the right he- misphere be compressed, the left arm and leg and side of the face will be paralysed. So constant is this " crossed" influence of cerebral lesion that it can be attributed only to some uniform physical condition of the nervous cen- tres. And that the anatomical disposition on which it depends is situate at the lower part of the medulla oblongata is proved, not only by the existence of these decussating fibres at this situation, but likewise by facts revealed by the phenomena of disease, and the results of experiment. Morbid lesions, for example, which have their seat above the decussation are, with rare execptions, accompanied by affection of the opposite half of the body—those which involve the nervous centre below the decussation affect the body on the same side. Mechanical injury to the brain or spinal cord produces like effects. And so constantly is this the case that when we meet a case of paralysis or of con- vulsion affecting only one side, we confidently predict that the lesion on which it depends will be found on the opposite side of the brain. This law of cerebral action has been known from the earliest periods of medical science, but the anatomical explanation of it, the sugges- tion of which dates as far back as the time of Aretaeus,* has been generally admitted only within a comparatively recent period. This explanation was founded on the hypothesis of a decussation of fibres in the medulla oblon- gata to a greater or less extent. Santorini, in- deed, laid it down that decussation took place not only in the lower part of the medulla ob- longata, but likewise at the anterior and pos- terior margins of the pons Varolii.f But it is quite impossible, by our ordinary means of ob- servation, to detect any such connection be- tween the anterior pyramids elsewhere than at their inferior extremity. In many instances I have thought that the fibres of the commissure which forms the floor of the anterior fissure presented an appearance as if decussation took place along the entire length of the pyramids. But the numerous foramina by which the com- missure is penetrated to give passage to vessels for the cential substance of the medulla, are very apt to give rise to a fallacious appearance of this kind. It has been stated that there are exceptions to this law of cerebral action. Such certainly must be extremely rare, for in the course of a considerable experience for many years I have not met with an unequivocal instance in which paralysis occurred on the same side with cere- bral lesion. The analysis which Burdach has given of 268 cases of paralysis in which there was lesion of a single hemisphere, shows very strikingly how rare must such an exception be. Of these cases he states that 10 were accom- panied with paralysis of both sides, and that 258 had hemiplegia. And of the hemiplegic cases, the paralysis occurred on the same side as the cerebral lesion in only 15. The full explanation of these exceptions has * nspi amaiv »ai g-yifxtltov ypoviwv TraBcev, Bif3\. A, xs(f>. (, p. 87, Ed. Kuhn. t Santorini must have been well acquainted with the decussating fibres of the pyramids, which lie clearly describes. The whole passage is worth being quoted here. " Id autem triplici potissimum in loco animadvertere potuimus; in utraque scilicet priore, posterioreque annularis protuberantia? cre- pidine atque maxime in imo inedullaris caudicis qua in spinalem abit. In priore itaque annularis protuberantiae parte, qua superius reflexa pro com- prehendendis oblongata medulla? cruribus in an- guli formam intcrius producta tenuattir, sic ex concurrentibus fibris, strictiorique agmine coeun- tibus altera alteram scandit ut pneter mirum im- plexum decussatio luculentissime appareat. Idip- snra ferine in postica ipsius crepidine occurrit. Eo iterum in loco, qui quarto ventriculo subjicitur, prater varios fibrarum oidines et colores, in adver- sum latus productas et decussatas fibras commode spectavimus. Si ea tamen evidenter uspiam con- spicitur, profecto quam evidentissime duas vix lineas infra pyramidalia alque adeo olivaria cor- pora conspici potest. Qua enim in longitudinem producta linea seu rimula pyramidalia corpora dis- cernuntur, si leniter dedncantur, probe prius eo potissimum loco arctissime hrerente tenui menin»c nudata, non tenues decussari fibri 1 las, sed validos carundem fasciculos in adversa contendere, quam apertissime demonstrabunt." Obcrv. Aiiat. cap. iii. § xii. p. 61. Ed. Ltigd. Bat. 173D.