398 MONOTREMATA. nearly the same size (fig. 192). The right uterus in all the specimens had become sym- pathetically affected, being firmer in texture and thicker in its coats. The parietes of the impregnated uteri were from three to four lines in thickness; an in- crease which was principally occasioned by the extension of small vascular folds between the fibrous and internal coats, which were so placed at right angles to these tunics as to present an appearance very similar to that of the second cavity of the stomach of the Por- pesse. The fibrous coat was slightly thickened near the cervix, and the serous covering was separated from it by the ramifications of nu- merous large and tortuous uterine vessels. There was not the slightest trace of a deci- dual or adventitious membrane in the cavity of the womb; and especial attention was directed to this circumstance, in consequence of the office assigned to it in a recent work,* as mi- nistering support to the ova in the higher Mammalia, at a period when, like those of the Ornithorhynchus, they have no attachment to the uterine parietes.f It may, however, be said that the deciduous membrane is here represented by the cortical or outer covering of the ovum : but this mem- brane, though of a denser structure and with- out villi, is certainly analogous to the outer tunic of the uterine ovum of the Rabbit and Bitch, which in them is gradually separated from the vitelline membrane by the imbibition of albuminous fluid. Now the relative pro- portion of the fluid interposed between the cortical and vitelline membranes in the small and large ova of the Ornithorhynchus, shows that the mutual recedence of the two mem- branes is effected in the same way. If the form, the structure, and the detached condition of the ova of the Ornithorhynchus, should still be regarded by some as compatible with, and perhaps favourable to, the opinion that they are excluded as such, and that the embryo is developed out of the parent's body, the following objections oppose themselves to such an opinion : the only part of the efferent tube of the generative apparatus which can be compared in structure or relative position to the shell-secreting uterus of the Fowl, is the dilated terminal cavity in which, in all the specimens above described, the ova were situ- ated; and upon the oviparous theory it must be supposed either that the parietes of this cavity, after having secreted the requisite quantity of soft material, suddenly assume a new function and complete the ovum by pro- viding it with the calcareous covering neces- sary to enable it to sustain the superincumbent weight of the mother during incubation; or, that this is effected by a rapid deposition of the same material from the cuticular surface of the external passages; or lastly, according to a more recent, but still more improbable sup- * Breschet, Etudes de l'CEuf Humain. t In the recent specimens Mr. Bennett noticed besides the ova only a "moisture" in the uterus. position, by a calcareous secretion of the ab- dominal glands poured out upon the ovum after its exclusion.* But granting that the egg is provided in any of these ways with the necessary external co- vering, yet from the evidence afforded by the specimens under consideration, the ovum is still deficient in those parts of its organization which appear to be essential to successful in- cubation, viz. a voluminous yolk to support the germinal membrane, and the mechanism for biinging the cicatricula into contiguity with the body of the parent. Add to this, that such a mode of development of the foetus requires that all the necessary nutritive material be accumulated in the ovum prior to its exclusion. Now the bony pelvis of the bird is expressly modified to allow of the escape of an egg, both large from the quantity of its contents, and unyielding from its necessary defensive covering; but whatever affinities of structure may exist in other parts of the Ornithorhyn- chus, it is most important to the question of its generation to bear in mind that it manifests no resemblance to the bird in the condition of the pubic bones. Again, as we have seen that the ova of the Ornithorhynchus have attained a diameter of little more than two lines after having traversed the whole of the Fallopian tube, the length of which is six inches, and the internal secreting surface increased by numerous folds, it may be reasonably inferred, from the analogy of the Rabbit and other Mammalia, that the ovum was of much smaller dimensions when first received into the oviduct. But the yolk in Birds and Oviparous Reptiles is invariably the product of the ovary, and derives no appre- ciable increase from the secretions of the efferent tube, which supply only the albu- minous part of the egg, or the material for the first formation of the chick. If, therefore, the gestation of the Ornithorhynchus terminates by the exclusion of an egg, as in the Bird or Tortoise, the preparatory steps in the formation of the ovum are widely different, for the parts concerned manifest the essential characters of the Mammiferous type, and the germ itself has a corresponding structure. These facts, it is agreeable to find, are in exact accordance with the now ascertained functions of the abdominal glands; for since the yolk in the Bird, besides its uses in the course of the foetal development, is intended as an after-substitute for a mammary secretion, remaining, as it does, but little diminished at the close of incubation, it might have been concluded, from a priori physiological deduc- tion, that the Monotremes, in which no such sub- stitute is required, would approximate the other Mammalia in the small size of the ovarian ovum. The nature or amount of subsequent devia- tions from a true viviparous generation can be determined only by future examinations of more advanced ova. From the structure of the cor- * Geoffroy St. Hilaire, Gazette Medicate, Feb. 11, 1833.