187 ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. stale of the organ they are more obscure, as may easily be inferred when we perceive such distinguished authorities as Muller and Cru- veilhier, from want of making the liver the subject of especial investigation, deceived by such appearances. That Cruveilhier has actu- ally mistaken the uncongested patches seen on the surface of a congested liver for the lobules, is clearly proved by a succeeding paragraph :— " Du reste, le volume des grains glanduleux presente beaucoup de varietes suivant les indi- vidus, et ce volume est tout-a-fait independant du volume du foie lui-meme. Les medecins qui s'occupent d'anatomie pathologique ont sou- vent note' ce development, sous le titre d'hepar acinosum. II est une maladie caracterisee par la coincidence de l'atrophie du foie, qui est reduit a la moietie, au tiers de son volume, et du development considerable des grains glan- duleux." Now the hepar acinosum is without question a liver in the second stage of hepatic venous congestion, and presents several varie- ties in the precise form of the uncongested patches. Starting with erroneous data such as these, what can be expected as the result of an expe- rimental injection of the liver made by Cru- veilhier, those who are thoroughly informed upon the exact anatomy of this organ will have no difficulty in anticipating; but to those who are only imperfectly acquainted with it, his con- clusions must appear startling :—" Le foieainsi injectc soumis a divers agens chimiques a pre- sente les resultats suivans : 1,1'injection bleue, c'est-a-dire celle de la veine cave, avait pene- tre dans la partie centrale des grains glandu- leux, partie qu'on appelle substance jaune du foie. Au milieu de la partie centrale etait 1'injection jaune, c'est-a-dire 1'injection du canal bihare. Autour de 1'injection bleue, etait 1'injection rouge, c'est-a-dire, 1'injection de la veine porte, et de l'artere hepatique, qui occupait toute la substance dite rouge du foie. 11 suit de la que chaque grain glanduleux presente un appareil vasculaire ainsi dispose: 1, au centre, un canal bihare ; 2, sur un plan plus excentrique, un cercle vas- culaire forme par les ramifications de la veine hepatique; 3, un cercle vasculaire concen- trique au precedent, forme par les ramifications de la veine porte et de l'artere hepatique." Thus in the centre of his lobule, Cruveilhier* found the yellow colour of the ducts, most probably effused and colouring the whole of the yellow portion of his lobule. Next came a circle of blue, and then a circle of red, formed conjointly by the portal vein and hepatic ar- tery. Now we have shewn that the centre of Cruveilhier's lobule is an uncongested patch formed by the contiguous margins of several adjoining hepatic lobules, and having an inter- lobular space for a centre ;—where, therefore, * These injections were not made by Cruveilhier himself, but by his assistant M. Honami, as we are informed by M. Dujardin, in his paper "sur le foie, &c." The material used for the purpose was spirit varnish, and the results were not always suc- cessful. could we expect to find the yellow but in the interlobular space, and diffused immediately around it, so that the colouring matter would obscure the red injection of the portal vein and artery of that immediate point. Around the uncongested patch and in the congested sub- stance we should find the intralobular veins of three or four or five surrounding hepatic lo- bules, (hence the variable size of Cruveilhier's lobules,) embracing by a kind of zone the yellow centre; and externally to the vein, the surrounding interlobular fissures would display the red injection of the portal vein and hepatic artery. 4. Disorders of biliary excretion.— Bil- iary congestion may be produced by various causes; the most frequent is temporary thick- ening of the mucous lining of the ducts from inflammation or capillary congestion ; this will simply diminish the calibre of the ducts or produce a complete stricture. The obstruction may endure for a shorter or longer period; the swelling of the membrane may subside and the tube be restored to its original dimen- sions, or it may become chronic and be a per- manent impediment to the free current of the bile. Another cause of congestion of the bile- ducts is hepatic venous congestion, which acts by producing pressure upon the lobular biliary plexus and interlobular ducts. This is usually a chronic cause. Congestion of the bile-ducts may likewise depend upon the impaction of a gall-stone in the larger biliary ducts or ductus choledochus, obliteration of one of the ducts by the pressure of a tumour, disease of the pancreas, or thickening of the mucous mem- brane of the duodenum. In each of these cases the ducts are loaded with bile, which gives a yellowish or greenish hue to the whole substance of the liver. Biliary congestion in a chronic form is usually accompanied with more or less of hepatic venous congestion. When one of the bile-ducts is obliterated or obstructed by a biliary concretion, the ducts become dilated above the constriction, and considerable reservoirs are formed in the sub- stance of the organ. If the impediment exist in the ductus choledochus, the gall-bladder becomes greatly distended as well as the biliary ducts. The irritation caused by the pressure of the bile has given rise to inflammation and ulceration of the coats of the gall-bladder or of the ducts, and the bile has been effused into the peritoneal cavity and produced death. When the cause of the obstruction is a biliary calculus of moderate size, the pressure of the column of the bile will sometimes force it on- wards into the duodenum, and thus remove the impediment. In other cases, when the obstruction occurs in the cystic duct, the bile ceases to enter the gall-bladder, the sac be- comes thickened and diminished in size, and filled with a colourless viscid mucus. 5. Diseases of the parenchyma. — The diseases of the substance or parenchyma of the liver may be referred to the following heads :— a, inflammation ; b, hypertrophy ; c, atrophy ; d, softening ; e, induration ; j\ fatty degene-