201 ANIMAL LUMINOUSNESS. the glow-worm continue to shine in carbonic acid gas. Immersion in oils of all kinds de- stroys the light-giving property in most of the insects endowed with it; but in Lampyris italica, Carradori found that the light conti- nued to be emitted when the luminous part of the body was plunged into oil. 3. Pressure of their bodies.—It has been observed that shortly after the death of the in- sect, the light-giving organs of elater emit light freely when the body is bruised, and in general mechanical irritations of all kinds cause a cer- tain degree of increase in the intensity of the light given out. Some animals, as pennatula^ seem to emit their light rarely, excepting in such circumstances. 4. Removal of the luminous organs, and mu- tilation of these and of other organs.-—The luminous organs may be cut out from the bodies of glow-worms and fire-flies without the peculiar property of the organs being imme- diately destroyed. The emission of light can for some time be re-excited by slight me- chanical irritations ; as by touching the organs with the point of a pin. Those of the glow- worm have been seen to shine for two or three days after excision, when slightly moistened with water, heated or electrified. In experi- menting on the same insect, Todd found that the light was extinguished within six minutes after the head was cut off; as also when the luminous rings were cut into, but was renew- able by the application of heat. Sheppard removed the luminous matter from a glow- worm ; the wounds healed within two days, and the body became again filled with new light-giving substance.*' 5. Exposure to various degrees of heat and moisture.—Light-giving insects in general do not shine at any temperature below that of 53° Fahr. Macaire took some glow-worms that had been kept for some time at a tem- perature of 50° Fahr., plunged them into water at 5.5°, and gradually raised the temperature. Light was emitted for the first time at 77°, and increased in intensity until the water was at 105°. At this temperature the animals died, but the light continued until the temperature had reached 134° .5, when it wholly disap- peared. When glow-worms are thrown alive into water heated to 110° and upwards, they die instantly, but at the moment emit a brilliant light. When they are exposed to an artificial cold suddenly, they perish at any degree below the freezing point of water; but the light may be partially restored by a temperature of 70°, although the animals shew no other sign of vitality. When the insects are dried artificially, the light is extinguished, but it may be restored by their being again moistened. 6. Immersion in vacuo.—When glow-worms are placed in vacuo, their light fades, but re- appears on admission of air. 7. Removal from all foreign sources of light. —If luminous insects be confined in a dark place, they shine little in the early part of the day, but long before night they begin to do so ; * Kirby and Spence's Entomology, ii. 426. although generally, in their native situations, they do not emit light until the twilight. If the confinement in a dark place be protracted, they do not shine so brightly as after having seen the sun during the day. IV. Seat of luminousness in different animals. —In most of the luminous animals that inhabit the ocean, a great part of their surface seems to bf endowed with the property of forming, and pouring out, a mucous fluid, which contains the luminous matter, and is frequently mis- cible with water and other fluids. This some- times so entirely covers the whole animal as to cause it to emit light from every point of its surface; but more generally when the animal is swimming, the light is seen to proceed only from certain regions. Some of the medusa, even of the largest size, emit light from a very small point, particularly when the luminous organ is placed in the central parts of the body. When the light is vivid, it seems to be larger than it really is, from the refracting power of the gelatinous tissues through which it passes. Occasionally the luminous point has not a diameter equal to the l-200th of that of the animal itself. In cydippe films and Oceania pileata of the Baltic, Ehrenberg finds that the light issues solely from the vicinity of the ovaries, and in Oceania hemispherica, from the bases of the cirri. Pholas dactylus gives out light most strongly from the internal surface of its respiratory tubes. The luminous mucus is sometimes poured out even by very small animals in such quantity as to leave a lumi- nous wake behind them, as in an instance mentioned by Quoy and Gaimard. These ob- servers saw such luminous lines formed in the paths of certain extremely small creatures, so transparent that their forms could not be dis- tinctly made out. The positions of their bodies were marked in the water by bright spots, which were followed in their course by lumi- nous wakes, at first about an inch in breadth, but afterwards by the movements of the water spread out to the breadth of two or three inches. This luminous mucus is supposed to be the seat also of the remarkable stinging property possessed by many of the acalephtc. It retains its luminousness in some instances for a day or two after being emitted by the animal, but loses it whenever putrefaction commences. But although this luminous mucus be so ge- nerally secreted and emitted by marine ani- mals, it is evident that the light given out by many of them has its seat in certain organs more or less internal, whence it proceeds in gleams and momentary flashes that seem to depend only on the movements of some im- ponderable agent. The exact position and re- lations of these organs can seldom be satis- factorily discovered, but in some crabs and mi- nute crustaceous animals that emit light, it is observed to proceed from the central organs of the nervous system. In other Crustacea the whole body seems to be full of light, which is emitted, as at so many windows, through the translucent membranes interposed between the segments of the crust. Dr. Macculloch con-