PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 72 1h what exalted. The slightest touch upon the surface of the body, even a breath of wind blown upon it, will cause a general or partial convulsive movement. The whole extent of the spinal cord is in a state of excitement, and even the medulla oblongata may be involved in it, whence the closed jaws, the spasmodic state of the facial muscles, the difficult degluti- tion. When this polar excitement is raised to its highest degree, the slightest mechanical sti- mulus applied to any one point of the cord affects the whole organ and throws all the mus- cles which it supplies into spasmodic contrac- tion, just as the least stimulus to peripheral parts has the same effect. It is a very interesting fact, which I have fre- quently satisfied myself of by careful examina- tion, that, however great the polar excitement may have been into which the cord has been thrown by strychnine, it exhibits no change of structure which can be detected by our means of observation. The nerve tubes and other elements entering into the formation of the cord have preserved their natural appearance in all the cases which I have examined. Opium has the effect of creating a similar state of polarity in the cord. This is most con- spicuous in cold-blooded animals ; it produces a similar effect in the warm-blooded classes, but in a much less degree. Hence there is an objection to the use of opium in large doses in cases of tetanus; and experience has shewn the inefficacy and the injurious influence of this drug when administered in large quantities. When the cord is in this state of excitement, a stimulus applied to one part may excite a re- mote part of it with great facility. The curious tendency already referred to, which the male frog has to grasp objects pre- sented to them by his anterior extremities, is to be attributed in part to a spontaneous exaltation of the polar force of the cord which takes place at the copulating season, in the spring of the year, and which is associated with an extraor- dinary developement of the papillary texture of the integument of the thumb. This exaltation of the polar force of the cord, in connection with the generative function, is a point highly worthy of the attention of the physiologist as offering some explanation of the sympathy which exists between different organs, between those even which are remote from each other, during the rutting season, or during utero-gestation. It is worthy of notice here that cold has a considerable influence in controlling this polar state of the spinal cord, and of other nervous centres likewise. Ice applied along the spine, or the cold douche, may be frequently em- ployed with great benefit in cases of muscular disturbance dependent on this polar state of the cord. It seems to me more than doubtful that many of those drugs which have the character of possessing a sedative influence upon the nervous system can be employed for this pur- pose either with safety or advantage. This applies certainly to hydrocyanic acid and to opium in large doses; animals poisoned by these substances become convulsed before death, and this denotes their tendency to exalt the polarity of the cord. (Jonium and bella- donna, according to my experience, exercise the most beneficial influence of any of the sedative drugs, and I have found them very useful in restraining the cramps and startings in para- plegic cases. I have ascertained by several experiments that the inhalation of ether has considerable effect in controlling the natural polar state of the cord, as well as that which may be produced by strychnine. A pigeon deprived of its cerebral hemispheres lives in a state of sleep for a considerable time ; it flies when thrown in the air, spreading and flapping its wings ; stands when placed on its feet. A bird thus mutilated was made to inhale ether; it could not stand, and when thrown into the air it fell to the ground like a heavy log, its wings remaining applied to the sides of its body, or if the wings were drawn out as it was thrown into the air, they quickly collapsed. As soon as the effects of the ether had passed off, it stood and flew as before. I gave strychnine to a rabbit, a guinea-pig, and a dog, so as to excite the tetanoid state. Immediately the spasms showed themselves, I brought it un- der the influence of ether; the spasms ceased immediately, and the animal became perfectly relaxed ; but as soon as the effects of the ether passed off, the spasms came on again, but were soon subdued by a fresh inha'ation of ether. And thus I found that the life of an animal poisoned by strychnine could be greatly pro- longed through successive inhalations of ether; for animals of the same kind, poisoned by equal doses of strychnine, but not subjected to the influence of ether, perished very rapidly. The examples which show that the spinal cord possesses the power of reflecting sensitive impressions are chiefly derived from disease. Every practitioner is familiar with the pain in the knee which accompanies the early stages of disease of the hip joint. The patient some- times refers his sufferings so exclusively to the former joint, that the disease of the latter may be entirely overlooked by his medical atten- dant. Yet the really painful part is healthy, while the hip joint is the seat of a morbid process. The pains which are felt in the thighs from the presence of a stone in the bladder, and the itching which is referred to the extre- mity of the prepuce from the same cause, are phenomena of the same nature. Pain in the right shoulder from irritation of the liver is a well-known sympathetic sensation : sometimes this pain extends over a very large surface. Numerous other instances of similar sympa- thetic phenomena might be adduced, but the above are sufficient for our present purpose. Taking into account the well-proved fact that nerves form no real junction of their fibres in their anastomoses, and that there is no more than a simple juxta-position of the nerve-tubes in these anastomoses, it is plain that we must trace these fibres up to the nervous centres to discover any connection between the fibre first irritated and that to which pain is referred. In the case of hip-joint disease, the nerves of the