«721z PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. The aggregate of these fibres, together with the grey matter, constitutes the true spinal cord paihetie actions, have not, I affirm, associated one physiological act with any such reflex function or the Spinal marrow. This is, therefore, my discovery." Upon this passage I must remark, 1st, that if Dr. Hall merely claims the discovery of the reflex func- tion, it cannot be conceded to him, for Prochaska had already distinctly announced the existence of this function in the medulla oblongata and spinalis, using even the term fanctio, as in the following pas- sage : —" Cum itaque prcecipua functio sensorii communis consistat in reflexione impressionum sen- soriarum in motorias, notandum est, quod ista re- flexio vel anima nescia, vel vero anima conscia fiat." Loc. cit. pp. 118-19. If, however, Dr. Hall claims the discovery of this function " as the nervous agent in all the acts of inges- tion and egestion in the animal economy,"then I have only to remark that I know of no physiologist in the present or in former times who would care to dispute such a discovery with him. 1 have already shown that the idsa that these acts of ingestion and egestion are dependent on this function is a fiction of the fancy—an idolon specus—which rests upon an imperfect and erroneous analysis of these acts, and on very narrow views of the nature and mode of developement of the nervous force. If, finally, Dr. Hall limits his claims, as he says he might do, to the discovery (?) of the anatomy and physiology of the true spinal system, as a combined system of " 1, incident nerves; 2, their spinal centre ; and, 3, reflex nerves, constituting the anatomy of the whole scries of the acts of ingestion and egestion," I am quite sure that no anatomist or physiologist of the present day would seek to deprive him of such a discovery, or dispute the opinion of Professor Flourens that it belongs to Dr. M. Hall. That this so-called true spinal system is no more than an hy- pothesis, and one which has but an infirm basis to rest upon, 1 have endeavoured to show in the text. That a centre of reflex actions exists—but not dis- tinct from the centres of sensori-volilional acts— every physiologist will admit, and the limits of that centre were most correctly defined more than fifty years ago by Prochaska under the name sensorium commune, which extends, according to him, " quam late patet nervorum origo," and which, as I have already remaiked, completely foreshadowed Dr. Hall's " true spinal marrow." In sections 5—11 of this work Dr. Hall states the real objects of his researches as follows. " First, to separate the reflex actions from any movements resulting from sensation and volition. Secondly, to trace these actions to an acknow- ledged source or principle of action in the animal economy—the vis nervosa of Haller—acting ac- cording to newly discovered laws. Thirdly, to limit these actions to the true spinal marrow, with its appropriate incident and reflex nerves, exclusively of the cerebral and ganglionic systems. Fourthly, to apply the principle of action in- volved in those facts to physiology, viz. to the physiology of all the acts of exclusion, of inges- tion, of retention, and of expulsion in the animal frame. Fifthly, to trace this principle of action in its relation to pathology, vTz. to the pathology of the entire class of spasmodic diseases ; and, Sixthly, to shew its relation to therapeutics, especially to the action of certain remedial and cer- tain deleterious physical agents. Finally, it is to these objects, taken together as a whole or as a system, that I prefer my claims ; and I do not pretend that an occasional remark may not have been incidentally made by some previous writer, bearing upon some one or other of them." It is in this work that Dr. Hall has, for the first of Dr. Hall, which is not limited to the spinal canal, but passes up into the cranium as far as time, ventured to notice the remarkable views of Prochaska. I wish, for the sake of English phy- siology, and also for the sake of Dr. Hall's own character as one who professes great admiration for those who " display a candid, impartial, and generous judgment of the works of others," that the extracts which he has made from Prochaska's work, few and imperfect as they are, had been accompa- nied by some more dignified and more ingenuous re- marks than those contained in the following para- graph. " It is impossible to adduce specimens of more complete confusion than these, in which voluntary acts, and the actions of the heart, stomach, and intestines—functions of the cerebral and of the gan- glionic systems respectively,— are arranged with certain reflex experimental facts, and very obvious sympathetic actions, which really belong to the true spinal system." I have carefully examined the passages quoted from Prochaska by Dr. Hall, and 1 confess myself unable to discover any of that " complete con- fusion to which he alludes." Prochaska stales, that numerous examples (plurima exempla) prove the general law of the reflecting power of the sensorium commune, of which, however, he says, it will suffice to adduce only a few. He mentions sneezing produced by irritation of the mucous membrane of the nostrils,* the violent cough pro- duced by irritation of the glottis—per micam cibi vel guttulam potus illapsam,—and the winking ex- cited by bringing the finger close to the eye. If these are not fair examples of reflex actions, I know not what are. Prochaska then proceeds to show that these reflex actions may take place with or without the cognizance of the mind; and here I must refer to a very disingenuous proceeding on the part of Dr. Hall in his quotations. He displaces the pas- sages from their right order and therefore from the context, and thereby introduces an appearance of confusion which does not exist in the original. The passage commencing '.' Si amicus digito," &c. occurs before and in a different paragraph from that commencing " Cum itaque pracipuo," &c, Dr. Hall quoting them as if the latter stood first. He has similarly transposed the passages com- mencing " Sed fieri tamen," &c. and " Mot us cordis, ventriculi." In the remaining portion of this work Dr. Hall has systematized his views more completely than in bis previous writings—repeating, however, much the same experiments, re-asserting the same expla- nations of certain actions as before, and adding some new remarks in vindication of his views al- ready expressed. Yet in this volume there are indications as if Dr. Hall had no great confidence in his own hypothesis, notwithstanding he had thought it worthy of being designated a discovery. At § 149, referring to Dr. Carpenter's and Mr. Newport's opinions in favour of the existence of excito-motoiy fibres distinct from sensori-volitional fibres, he remarks, " I doubt not that the investi- gations of these gentlemen are correct; they have, therefore, confirmed what I had long previously done." But in § 150, having mentioned Mr. Grain- ger's assertion that in the roots of the spinal nerves one set of fibres passes up to the brain, while the other pursues its course to the grey matter, he says, " It is probable, therefore, that the former are in reality nerves of sense and voluntary motion, whilst the latter are the nervous channels of the excito- * Prochaska supposes that the olfactory nerves propagate the irritation which excites sneezing to the centre ; — the office of the fifth nerve was not made out in his day.