14 INSTINCT. height of from twelve to fifteen feet, and so clear the cataract that impedes their course; if they fail in their first attempt, they continue their efforts till they have accomplished it. The female is stated to hollow out a long and deep excavation in the gravelly bed of the river to receive her spawn." * A similar periodical emigration has been ob- served in other animals, particularly in some of the Crustacea. " Several of the crabs forsake the waters for a time, and return to them to cast their spawn ; but the most celebrated of all is that known by the name of land-crab, and alluded to by Dr. Paley as the violet-crab, and which is called by the French the tourlourou. They are natives of the West Indies and South Ame- rica. In the rainy season, in May and June, their instinct impels them to seek the sea, that they may fulfil the great law of their Creator, and cast their spawn. They descend the moun- tains, which are their usual abode, in such numbers that the roads and woods are covered with them." "They are said to halt twice every day, and to travel chiefly in the night. Arrived at the sea-shore, they are there reported to bathe three or four times, when retiring to the neighbouring plains or woods, they repose for some time, and then the females return to the water, and commit their eggs to the waves. This business dispatched, they endeavour to regain, in the same order, the country they had left, and by the same route, but only the most vigorous can reach the mountains." f The object of all these migrations is, that the female animals may have an opportunity of de- positing their eggs where they will be in circum- stances suited to their development, particularly as to the essential requisites, exposure to heat and to air. 2. The same object, the choice of a suitable place for depositing their egss, is accomplished in other instances by very different instincts im- planted in female animals. " Reptiles," says Kirby," and Fishes do not feel the instinctive love for their young, after birth, which is ex- hibited by quadrupeds and birds, but are in- variably instructed by the Creator to select a place in which their eggs can be hatched either by artificial or solar heat." Many of them likewise, as the salmon, dig holes before depositing them, for their protection. Those of the serpents which are not ovo-viviparous, bury their eggs in sand, or in heaps of fer- menting matter. The Saurians also select a proper place for their eggs, the crocodile, e.g. the sands beside rivers; " one species of sala- mander commits a single egg to a leaf of Persicaria, protects it by carefully doubling the leaf, and then proceeding to another, repeats the manoeuvre till her oviposition is finished. Toads and frogs lay their eggs in water, sur- rounded by a gelatinous envelope which forms the first nourishment of the embryo," corres- ponding to the albumen of the bird's egg. In like manner every insect is directed by nature to place its eggs in situations where its * Kirby, vol. i. t Ibid. young, when disclosed, will find its appro- priate nourishment; some burrowing in the earth for this purpose; many flies in dead animal matter about to putrefy; many in dif- ferent parts of living vegetables;* bees and ants in the cells where they are to be fed by the working members of their hives, &c. A spe- cies of the ichneumon fly and some of the wasps have been observed to bury caterpillars along with their eggs, on which their larv-je are to feed, and another fly to deposit its eggs on the back of a caterpillar, when the larva? feed on the secretion by which the covering of the pupa is to be formed.f 3. The instincts called into action in the nidification, particularly of birds, are so nume- rous, varied, and admirably adapted to their purpose, as to have called forth admiration in all ages. The pairing of the parent birds at the beginning of spring, when the labour is to begin ; the choice of a place suited to the habits of the species, on the ground, under ground, in rocks, on the edge of lakes or of the sea, in marshes, in bushes, on trees, on buildings of all descriptions ; the choice of the materials, and the labour exerted for com- pleting the work ; some using clay, some sand, some moss, some leaves, some straw or twigs, some moss or lichen ; many forming a rough outside of materials hardly to be distinguished from the surrounding objects, while the inside is warm and smooth ; some building in very pe- culiar forms to impede the access to their young; the tailor-bird sewing leaves together with distinct stitches, and the Java swallows forming their gelatinous nests, as the bees manufacture their waxen cells, from the contents and secre- tions of their own stomachs ;—all furnish proofs of contrivance too obvious and too nearly ad- justed to varying circumstances, to have es- caped the attention even of careless observers. Many of the Mammalia make some kind of provision, although less artificial, for the re- ception of their progeny. " Cats search about inquisitively for a concealed situation; bur- rowing animals retire to the bottom of their burrows, and several of the Rodentia make beds of their own hair to receive their young ;" all beasts of prey, whose progeny come into the world blind and helpless, have some kind of retreat in which they supply them at once with warmth and nourishment. Many insects, also, besides those which associate in hives, use various precautions for the covering and pro- tection of their eggs. 4. The instinct of incubation, which forms the next part of the provisions for the repro- duction of birds, the extraordinary change then effected in the habits of the female bird, par- ticularly when attended and cheered, as hap- pens in so many cases, by the equally temporary instinct of song of the male bird,—is another natural phenomenon too striking and interesting to have escaped observation ; and the object of * In this choice insects seem to be guided by the sense of smell, at least in the case where the food of the larvse to be brought forth is different from that of the parent. t Darwin.