400 MONOTREMATA. The circumstances which first attract atten- tion in these singular objects are the total ab- sence of hair,* the soft flexible condition of the mandibles, and the shortness of these parts in proportion to their breadth as compared with those of the adult. Fig. 196. The integument with which the man- dibles are covered is thinner than that which covers the rest of the body, and smoother, present- ing under the lens a minutely granulated surface when the cuticle is removed, Head of young Ornithorhyn- which, however, is chus. (Owen, Zool. Trans.) extremely thin, and has none of the horny character which the claws at this period present. The margins of the upper beak are rounded, smooth, thick, and fleshy; the whole of the under mandible (fig. 196, g) is flexible, and bends down upon the neck when the mouth is attempted to be opened. The tongue, (fig. 196, h,) which in the adult is lodged far back in the mouth, advances in the young animal close to the end of the lower mandible; all the increase of the jaws beyond the tip of the tongue, which in the adult gives rise to a form of the mouth so ill calculated for suction or application to a flattened surface, is peculiar to that period, and consequently forms no argument against the fitness of the animal to receive the mammary secretion at an earlier stage of existence. The breadth of the tongue in the larger of the young specimens was 3£ lines ; in the adult it is only one line broader; and this disproportionate development is plainly indicative of the importance of the organ to the young animal, both in receiving and swallow- ing its food. The mandibles are surrounded at their base by a thin fold of integument, which extends the angle of the mouth from the base of the lower jaw to equal the breadth of the base of the upper one, and must increase the facility for receiving the milk ejected from the mammary areola of the mother. The oblique lines which characterize the sides of the lower mandible in the adult were faintly visible on the corresponding parts of the same jaw of the young animal: a minute ridge of the inner sides of these lines indicates the situations of the anterior horny teeth of the adult. The situation of the exterior nostrils (Jigs. 195, 196, a) has already been given; they communicate with the mouth by the foramina incisiva, which are situated at nearly three lines distance from the end of the upper mandible, and are each guarded by a membranous fold extending from their anterior margin : the nasal cavity then extends backwards, and terminates immediately above the larynx, the tip of the * This is not accidental, as in many of the adult specimens sent over in spirit, for the cuticle is entire. In the specimens which Mr. G. Uennett discovered, the skin had a slight downy appear- ance. epiglottis extending into it, and resting upon the soft palate. On the middle line of the upper mandible and a little anterior to the nostrils there is a minute fleshy eminence lodged in a slight de- pression (fig.196, b). In the smaller specimen this is surrounded by a discontinuous margin of the epidermis, with which substance, there- fore, and probably (from the circumstance of its being shed) thickened or horny, the caruncle had been covered. It is a structure of which the upper mandible of the adult presents no trace, and is obviously analogous to the horny knob which is observed on the upper mandible in the foetus of aquatic and gallinaceous Birds. I do not, however, conceive that this structure is necessarily indicative of the mandible's having been applied, under the same circum- stances, to overcome a resistance of precisely the same kind as that for which it is designed in the young Birds which possess it. The shell-break- ing knob is found in only a part of the class; and although the similar caruncle in the Orni- thorhynchus affords a curious additional affinity to the Aves altrices, yet, as all the known history of the ovum points strongly to its ovo-vivipa- rous development, the balance of evidence is still in favour of the young being brought forth alive. The situation of the eyes (fig. 195, b, 196, c) was indicated by the convergence of a few wrin- kles to one point; but when, even in the larger of the two specimens, these were put upon the stretch, the integument was found entire, and completely shrouding or covering the eyeball anteriorly. This fact is one of great importance to the question of the mammiferous character of the Ornithorhynchus. For on the supposition of the young animal possessing locomotive faculties, which would enable it like the young gosling, immediately after birth or exclusion, to follow the parent in the water, and there to receive its nutriment, (whether mucous or otherwise,'*) the sense of vision ought certainly * Geoffroy St. Hilaire contending, in 1833, for the analogy of the abdominal glands of the Orni- thorhynchus with those\>f the Shrews which secrete " a mucus possessing a very powerful odour," says, " I should not be surprised, if this mucus, more abundant and more substantial in the Monotremata, became the nutriment of the young after their hatching. The Monotremata would act, in this respect, like some aquatic birds which conduct their young after hatching to the water, and assist them in their sustentation. The maternal instinct would lead the female Ornithorhynchus to effect the contraction of the gland, which is possible by the efforts of the panniculus carnosus and the great oblique muscle, between the fibres of which the gland is seated, and thus procure for the young, at several periods of the day, by way of nutri- ment, an abundant supply of mucus. If this edu- cation is carried on in the water, where we know, by the history of the generation of frogs and the nutrition of their tadpoles, that the mucus com- bines with the ambient medium, becomes thick, and supplies an excellent nutriment for the early age of these reptiles, we shall understand the utility of the ventral glands of the Ornithorhyn- chus, as furnishing a source of nutriment for the young of these animals,—for young Ompara newly hatched."— Gazette Medicale, Keb. 18th, 1833.— Proceedings Zool. Society, March 1333, p. 29.