MONOTREMATA. 404 condition was only manifested in the females with ovaria, large indeed, but without promi- nent ovisacs, and in which the recent corpora lutea were almost absorbed. These facts were established by the dissection of five female Oinithorhynchi. In each of these specimens the mammary gland was composed of between one hun- dred and two hundred elongated subcylin- drical lobes, forming an oblong- flattened mass, and converging to a small oval areola in the abdominal integument, which areola is situated between three and four inches from the cloaca, and about one inch from the mesial line. The lobes in the fully developed glands are rounded and enlarged at their free extremities, and measured at that end three or four lines in breadth, and became narrower to about one-third from the point of insertion, where they end in slender ducts. Almost all the lobes are situated at the outer side of the areola, and consequently converge towards the mesial line of the abdomen. Between the gland and the integument the panniculus carnosus (Jig. 199, a) is interposed, closely adhering to the latter, but connected with tbegland by loose cellular membrane. This muscle is here a line in thickness, its fibres are longitudinal, and, separating, leave an elliptical space for the passage of the ducts of the gland to the areola. On the external surface of the skin, when the hair is removed, this areola can only be distinguished by the larger size of the orifices of the lacteal ducts, compared with those for the transmission of the hairs. Fig. 200. Mammary areola, Ornithorhynchus, natural sixe. (Owen, Phil, Trans. 1832.) The orifices of the ducts thus grouped together form an oval spot, which in the female with the largest glands measured five lines in the long and three in the short diameter. In none of the specimens was the surface on which the ducts terminated raised in the slightest degree beyond the level of the surrounding integument. Meckel was disposed to believe that the ducts terminated on a small eminence about the size of a millet-seed, but did not succeed in demonstrating the fact by injection of the ducts.* * Meckel writes : " Ductuli excretorii, maxime attenuati, in glandular medio extrorsum aperiuntur. Quamvis neqne setas,neque mercuriam per ductus,et per se, utmonui, angustissiraos, et spiritu vini con- Not any of the specimens of Ornithorhyn- chus examined by me have presented a mammary eminence of any dimensions; on the contrary, I have succeeded in demonstrat- ing the termination of the lacteal ducts on the flat areolar tract. Having in vain at- tempted to insert the smallest absorbent pipe into the mouths of these ducts, I thrust it into the extremity of one of the elongated lobes, and after a few unsuccessful efforts at length saw the mercury diffuse itself in mi- nute globules through the parenchyma of the lobe, and at a distance of an inch it had evi- dently entered a central duct, down which it freely ran to the areola, where it escaped exter- nally from one of the minute orifices just de- scribed. This process was repeated on most of the lobes with similar results, the greater part of them terminated by a single duct open- ing exteriorly and distinct from the rest, but in a few instances the ducts of two contiguous lobules united into one, and in these cases the mercury returnetl by the anastomosing duct and penetrated the substance of the other lobe as freely as that into which the pipe had been inserted. Some of the lobes injected by the reflux of the mercury through the duct, and of which it was more certain that the glandular structure and not the cellular membrane was filled, were dried, and various sections were submitted to microscopical examination. At the greater extremity they are minutely cellular, the cells communicating with each other, and elongating as the lobule grows narrower, first at the centre, so as to form apparently minute tortuous tubes, which tend towards and terminate in a larger central canal, or receptacle, from which the ex- cretory duct is continued. On making a sec- tion of the corium through the middle of the areola the ducts are seen to converge slightly to the external surface, but there is no inverted or concealed nipple at this part, as in the Kan- garoo. (Fig. 201 is a sketch of a magnified view of this section, with the section of one of the dried and injected lobules.) Thus, prior to and independently of any direct observation of the secretion of the ab- dominal glands, the anatomical facts brought to bear upon their disputed function were in- dubitably more favourable to the opinion of the German than of the French Professor; for, 1st, the glands are confined to the female, and vary in degree of development at dif- ferent periods in individuals of equal size, at- taining in some an enormous development; 2nd, tlie secretion is conveyed outwardly by means of numerous long and narrow ducts, tractos, et fluido concreto repletos.trajicere potuerim, area tamen indicatur in cute. Quamvis pili hanc par- tem tegant, apparet tamen, hos si abstuleris, plaga, quinque circiter lineas longa, tres lata, foraminulis, iis, e quibus pili egrediuntur, majoribus, nigris, circiter octoginta stipata, forsan durtuum excre- torium oriticiis. Praeterea in hujus medio depres- siuncula duarum linearum diametri adest, pilis destituta, sed eminentiunculis inasqualis, inter quas pra?cipue una, milii granum haud aequans, reliquas antecellit. Ha? sine dubio papillae et ductuum ori- ficia sunt."—Loc. cit. p. 54.