MOTION. 451 most conspicuous in some of the Natatores, as the Goose, Duck, &c, and in those birds which have the greatest space between the coty- loid cavities and the least length of legs. Many birds depress and elevate the head, and ex- tend and retract the neck at each step, in order to preserve in equilibrio the forces acting on the centre of gravity ; the Moor-hen and some others are also observed to spread out the tail like a fan, which is alternately elevated and de- pressed at each step; and these successive actions of the tail taking place at the extremity of that portion of the lever opposite to the head, tend to produce an equilibrium between those portions of the trunk lying on each side of the cotyloid articulations. In the progression of some of the long-legged Grallatores, such as the Crane and Stork, the swinging leg describes a portion of a circular curve round the standing leg. Pliny appears to have observed this kind of movement, for, in his Hist. Nat., lib. x. c. 23, he says, " Grues mansuefactae gyros quosdam indecoro cursu peragunt." Alarge number of birds, such as the Sparrows, Canaries, Blackbirds, &c, instead of moving the two feet alternately, move them simultaneously : in these movements the legs are first flexed and then suddenly extended in succession, by which means the trunk and both legs are elevated from the ground, and progression is effected by a series of short leaps. In running the Cursores outstrip all other birds, and per- haps all other animals. The osseous columns which support the trunk are of great length and size, and are acted on by powerful muscles. The femurs, though short, have a considerable diameter; the tibia is long, but still longer is the tarso-metatarsal bone. The bones of the legs elevate the trunk to a great height, by which they are enabled to stride over a large space at each step. Aided by its compa- ratively diminutive wings, the Ostrich will out- strip the fleetest Arabian horse in his flight across the desert, as will the Cassowary the swiftest Greyhound. Thus, though deprived by the comparative smallness of their wings of the power of aerial progression, these birds are fully compensated by the velocity of the terrestrial movements. The Scansores, such as the Woodpecker, Parrot, Cuckoo, &c have the internal toes and thumbs turned backwards, which enables them, with the assistance of the tail, to climb and to suspend themselves to the upright trunks of trees ; during which action,the legs, tail, and that portion of the tree against which they rest form the three sides of a triangle. Mammij'erous Quadrupeds.'—The locomotive organs of the mammiferous quadrupeds are more highly organized than those of the Ba- trachia and Chelonia. The bones of the skele- ton are more compact, hard, and dense, and contain a greater proportion of the calcareous phosphate; they are, therefore, better calcu- lated to resist the shocks incidental to terres- trial progression: the vertebral column, which is directed horizontally, is convex at its dorsal and concave at its ventral aspect. It forms a single arch, extending from the pelvis to the last cervical vertebra, as it is kept bent by strong ligaments. It constitutes a powerful elastic column, well adapted to support the weight of the abdominal viscera as also of extra- neous burdens which these animals are destined to bear. The spinal column of mammiferous quadrupeds is endowed with much greater mobility and elasticity than in the Saurian and Chelonian quadrupeds. The trunk is directed horizontally, resting on the four legs, which, like so many columns, support the centre of gravity. The scapula and pelvis have (he power of rotating in a vertical plane through a large arc; the axes of the acetabula of the shoulder and hip-joints are directed vertically downwards to receive the heads of the ossa humeri and femoris, the shafts of which are directed vertically upwards. These ball-and-socket joints permit the several motions of flexion and extension, abduction and adduction, pronation and supination : the rest of the joints of each extremity are ginglymoid, a construction which, although it restricts the limbs thus articulated to move- ments in one plane, yet secures to these movements greater precision. The joints are lined and lubricated by synovial membranes, which, throughout the life of the animal, effec- tually secure them from injurious friction not- withstanding their varied and long-continued exertions. The elastic ligaments permit great freedom of action under all ordinary circum- stances without rupture. The osseous columns, which enter into the composition of the extre- mities, are piled upon each other endways, with their long axes either vertical or inclined; and, in order to give them the power of sus- taining the greatest possible pressure with the least weight and expenditure of solid materials, the shafts of the long bones are formed into hollow cylinders, of which the height and base are adjusted to each other with the greatest mechanical precision. The bones of the extre- mities in most mammiferous quadrupeds are inclined to each other's axes at a greater or less angle, the magnitude of which is in pro- portion to the bulk and speed of the animal. In those quadrupeds which have the greatest bulk and least velocity of locomotion, the bones approach nearest the vertical direction : such is the case with the elephant. On the contrary, in those animals which are remarkable for the greatest speed, the axes of the bones are in- clined to each other at the greatest angle. Although the angular disposition of the bones diminishes their power of sustaining great weight, and increases the expenditure of muscular effort, yet it confers on the legs greater elasticity, and enables them, from the oblique transmission of the impulse, to sustain sudden shocks without fracture of the bones ; it also enlarges the range of motion, and gives the posterior extremities greater power of pro- jecting the body forwards during rapid loco- motion. The bones of the anterior extremity having to support the weight of the head and neck, as well as a large proportion of the trunk, are inclined nearer to a vertical direction than 2 c 2