501 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. festly the same structures, detached and matted together. The secretion found in the tubules of the testis is chiefly composed of epithelial particles resembling those attached to the base- merit membrane of the tubules. Some of these are very perfect, others have undergone changes. It has been already staled that the seminal ani- malcules are most probably a developement of some of these particles, not altogether different in its nature from that of the cilia found upon them in other situations. The secretion of an ordinary mucous follicle is likewise made up of epithelial particles resembling those still attached to the membrane. The thick, semi- fluid mucus found in the stomach has been shown by Wasmann* to consist of rounded nucleated particles, which both in size and shape correspond with those of the stomach tubules. This mucus may be even seen pro- jecting from the cells into which these tubules discharge themselves, and no doubt can exist that the proper secretion of this organ is chiefly composed of the bulky epithelium thrown off by the tubules; a view corroborated by the fact,f that this mucous membrane, consisting almost solely of epithelium, when mixed with certain acids naturally existing in the gastric juice, evinces the same powers of dissolving alimentary substances as that wonderful men- struum itself. The same thing may be ob- served in the intestinal canal, where the adhe- sive mucus is little else than the aggregated epithelial caps of the villi, together with that which has escaped from the vertical tubes of the membrane. These facts may be always verified in a healthy animal just killed, and may thus be shewn to be independent of any morbid-action. The legitimate conclusion from them seems to be this: that the peculiar prin- ciples of these respective secretions are lodged in the epithelial particles ; having been depo- sited there from the blood, in the natural course of developement. In other words, the process of secretion in these cases consists in an assimilation of the material from the blood by an organized tissue, which, when fully de- veloped, is loosened and shed. This view, so captivating by its simplicity, has certainly much satisfactory evidence in its favour, and it may, at least, be regarded as sufficiently established to constitute a strong presumption in favour of the general position, that all secretion is primarily assimilation. That the epithelial particles, when their growth is completed, should detach themselves in a more or less entire state, in all cases, from the membrane to which they have adhered, cannot be supposed essential to this general position, and even the total absence of any vestiges of these particles from any particular secretion would scarcely form a valid argument against it. For at present we know of no reason why the assimilated material should not be gradually given up by a slow disintegration or deliquescence of the particles, or even by a * De digestione nonnulla. Berol. 1839. t Muller's Archiv. 1836, page 90. Schwann, iiber das Wisen des Verdatmngs processes. continual separation of it without a concomitant destruction of the particles themselves. But in numerous instances besides those that have been mentioned, there is more or less direct evidence of an actual shedding and con- tinual renovation of the epithelium. The scaly variety of this tissue, whether on skin or mu- cous membranes, is a wide-spread example of this: the particles may be observed to augment in size by the intus-susception of new material from the blood, afterwards to undergo a slow loss of substance, and, finally, to lose their connection with the body altogether. They retain their position till nothing but the nucleus and cell-membrane remain, till they are re- duced, as it were, to a mere skeleton. How the material thus separated from the body is to be distinguished from a secretion, it would not be easy to decide. In the saliva of the mouth, are present, not only detached scales, but globu- lar nucleated particles, of a very delicate aspect and regular character, which seem manifestly to come from the salivary glands. They differ in some respects from the epithelium of these organs, but appear most probably to be par- ticles of it altered by endosmose of the water of the secretion through the cell-membrane; for the ultimate vesicles and ducts of these glands are not merely lined, but filled, with epithelial particles, which, being thrown off from the basement membrane, must in due time escape to make room for the advancing series: and yet none of them in an unaltered state are found in the saliva. I may in this place refer to an opinion recently entertained in Germany, that the secreting membrane of certain glands is arranged in the form of closed vesicles filled with nu- cleated particles, which, from time to time, are discharged, as the secretion, by the bursting of the cell in which they are contained. Ilenle* conceives that this arrangement exists in the mammary, salivary, and lachrymal glands, as well as in almost every mucous membrane, however apparently plain and simple. Was- mann f has described a similar structure in the middle part of the stomach of the pig. This view of the existence of closed vesicles is obviously at variance with the general view before given of the universal continuity of the simple membrane of the mucous system. I am familiar with many of the appearances on which it is founded, and without presuming to pronounce them very decidedly deceptive, I may state that hitherto my observations induce me to agree with Dr. Baly % in his rejec tion of the interpretation put upon them by the Ger- man anatomists. A thin slice of a mass of the many-lobed terminal vesicles of one of these glands, especially if compressed, very readily assumes the aspect of a congeries of cells, each entirely surrounded by an envelope of base- ment membrane. But I have several times, in favourable sections, observed this membrane passing off into a neck, and becoming con- * Muller's Arobiv. 1839, p. xlv. t De digestione nonnulla. Berol. 1839. % Translation of Muller's Physiology, p. 504.