ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 67 Fig. 8. Ft*. 9. Femur displace! inwards. Patella anchylosed. elongated and was directed backwards. The crucial ligaments were also elongated, and instead of crossing each other were untwisted as it were and lay side by side. The carti- lages were altogether removed, and when the femur was forcibly separated from the tibia, there were corresponding elevations and de- pressions which marked the several points of contact between the bones, in which a species of anchylosis had occurred. The body of the tibia was greatly enlarged and hypertrophied, and round perforations existed in its head, from which sequestra had been discharged. II. Abnormal conditions of the knee- joint RESULTING FROM ACCIDENT. FraC- tures and dislocations are the principal acci- dents to which the bones of the knee-joint are liable. The muscular and tendinous fibres common to the rectus, crurceus, and vasti are occasionally torn from the patella, and the ligament of this bone is also sometimes rup- tured. The proper ligaments, too, and other structures of the knee-joint, suffer from sudden injuries, which we must here advert to as briefly as we can. Fractures of the shaft of the femur near to the knee-joint may be transverse or oblique, or one or both of the condyles may be broken off from this joint. 1. When a transverse fracture is situate immediately above the condyles of the femur, Displacement backwards of the superior extremity of tlie lower fragment. it is the inferior fragment which is displaced, its superior extremity being directed backwards towards the popliteal space (see fig. 9); the an- terior part of the condyles and trochlea have their aspect directed upwards, and form a swelling above the patella, giving to the joint a singular appearance. This direction back- wards of the superior extremity of the lower fragment is the result of the action of the gastrocnemii, the plantaris, and popliteus muscles. 2. Oblique fractures of the lower extremity of the femur near the knee-joint are more serious and embarrassing than transverse fractures, not only on account of the immediate danger of the penetration of the skin by the upper frag- ment, and of the accident being thus rendered compound, but also on account of the great difficulty which is always experienced in main- taining the bones in apposition during the treatment of the case. Sir A. Cooper says the appearances presented by the usual oblique fracture of the lower ex- tremity of the femur are the following;:—" The lower and broken extremity of the shaft of the femur projects, and forms a sharp point, which pierces the rectus muscle, just above the pa- tella, threatens to tear the skin, and sometimes f 2