152 LIFE. as a simple body, like chlorine, iodine, or cya- nogen, with the metal sodium.* It will be seen, then, that the tendency of modern researches in inorganic chemistry is to prove, that the mode of combination which characterises the union of its elements, is not by any means so simple as it has been usually supposed; but that a binary, a ternary, and perhaps even a quaternary compound, may perform the part of an element, combining with other elements which are really simple, to form what are regarded as simple binary com- pounds. We shall now enquire what reason there is for believing that the compounds with which organic chemistry supplies us, have a similar constitution. We must be content, however, with selecting one or two examples from among the vast number which the in- dustry of analytic chemists is constantly bring- ing to light. The vegetable alkaloids have been generally regarded as proximate principles, not to be separated into simple compounds without an entire disunion of their elements. They all contain one equivalent of nitrogen ; and there is good reason to suspect that this element is not equally combined with all the rest, but exists in union with hydrogen in the form of ammonia, to which the alkaline power of these substances is due. Again, camphor was long considered a proximate principle of ternary composition ; but it is now found to be an oxide of camphene,—a compound radical con- sisting of carbon and hydrogen, which will unite, like cyanogen, with simple bodies ; form- ing camphoric acid with another equivalent of oxygen, and entering with chlorine, &c. into other compounds. Lastly, urea may be men- tioned, in which the four elements that coin- pose it may be regarded as existing in several forms of binary combination. It contains these elements in the following proportions:—2 oxy- gen, 4 hydrogen, 2 carbon, and 2 nitrogen. These may be considered as existing in the form of cyanic acid, ammonia, and water ; one equivalent of each of these forming cyanate of ammonia; and, in fact, by the artificial union of these compounds, urea has actually been produced. It is by no means certain, however, that these compounds exist as such in urea ; and various ideas of its composition are enter- tained by chemists, on which this is not the place to comment. Our object is simply to show the analogy in the composition of the products of vital chemistry with that of the ar- tificial compounds whose formation is subject to none but physical laws. Why the chemist is not more successful in imitating in his labo- ratory the operations of the living economy, will presently become subject for consideration. An argument employed by many physiolo- gists for the existence of a distinct set of vital affinities, is founded upon the evident truth, that the tissues and fluids which maintain a certain composition when possessed of vitality, speedily resolve themselves into new combina- tions when this has become extinct. Hence it is inferred that the affinities which hold toge- * See Graham's Chemistry, p. 158 et seq. ther the elements during life, are of a different nature from those which operate in producing their subsequent separation. Now, it may be objected to this inference, that no solid or fluid compounds which have a disposition to spon- taneous decay after death, can continue to exist without change during life ; that the activity of the processes of interstitial absorption and re- position seems to bear a pretty constant ratio, in every case, with the natural tendency to de- composition ; and that the maintenance of the original combination is not so much owing to anything peculiar in the affinities which hold together its elements, as to the constant removal of particles in a state of incipient decay, and their replacement by others freshly united. Thus, we find that all the most permanent parts of the animal frame, such as the massive skele- tons of the polypifera, the calcareous tegument of the mollusca, or the bony scales of fishes, to the possible duration of which geologists scarcely dare to assign a limit, are extravascular in the living animal, undergoing scarcely any interstitial change when once formed. Next to these in order of durability are the osseous structures of animals, and the woody fibre of plants, whose connection with the circulating system appears rather adapted to meet the exi- gencies of growth, injury, or disease, than to maintain a constant change required by the ten- dency to decomposition. When we examine the softer tissues, on the other hand, we find that the rapidity of interstitial change fully compensates for the increased tendency to de- cay; and that the perfect exercise of their respective functions imperatively demands the constant maintenance of their normal constitu- tion. Moreover, there are many organic com- pounds which are as permanent as those formed in the laboratory of the chemist; of this kind are gum, sugar, and many other proximate prin- ciples, which simply require for their preserva- tion such external conditions as are necessary to prevent the spontaneous decomposition of many inorganic bodies. The degree in which these are subject to ordinary chemical opera- tions will be presently mentioned. It appears, then, to be an inference better founded on fact than that first mentioned, that the preservation of the normal constitution of organic com- pounds in the living body, is dependent on the continuance of the vital actions of the eco- nomy, rather than due to its mere possession of the property of vitality. In fact, that may be reasonably maintained as an inference from these phenomena, which we have already at- tempted to prove on other grounds;—that the vitality of each tissue, that is to say, its posses- sion of vital properties, is dependent on the perfect condition of its organisation, and that, so far from preserving the organism from decay, it merely remains until decay has commenced. These inferences are, we think, fully borne out by the two following facts. When life is being extinguished by starvation, the whole body ex- hales a putrid odour even before the occurrence of death, and rapidly passes into putrefaction afterwards : here it would seem that the process of spontaneous decomposition, which we have