MATISUPIALIA. 294 but the optic thalami (t, t, fig. 117) are im- mediately brought into view, and instead of a Fig. 117. a Phascohmys fusca. broad corpus callosum, we perceive, situated deeply at the bottom of the longitudinal fissure, a small commissural medullary band, (fig- H7) passing in an arched form over the anterior part of the thalami, and extending beneath the overlapping internal or mesial sur- faces of the hemispheres, (q, fig. 117,) which are thus, as in the Bird, disconnected with each other. On gently raising the hemispheres from above the commissure and pressing them out- wards with the handle of a scalpel, the instru- ment passes into the fissure upon which the hippocampus (n, fig. 117) is folded ; and, on continuing the pressure, the hippocampus is torn through, and the lateral ventricle is ex- posed. The mesial wall of the hemisphere is continued from the superior and internal border of the hippocampus, and is composed in the Wombat, as in the Bird, of a thin lamina of medullary substance analogous to a detached layer of the septum lucidum. In the Kan- garoo the mesial parietes of the lateral ventricles are stronger, being about two lines in thickness. The posterior transverse fibres of the com- missure are continued outwards and backwards beneath the more longitudinal fibres, which overlap them as they pass from the taeniae hippocampi (o, fig. 117) forwards to the anterior cerebral lobes. All the fibres of the commissure pass along the floor of the lateral ventricles into the substance of the hippocampi majores, which are of proportionally very large size. Thus the commissure, which is brought into view on divaricating the cerebral hemi- spheres in the Wombat, is seen to be partly the bond of union of the two hippocampi majores in the transverse direction, and partly of the hippocampus and anterior lobe of the same hemisphere in the longitudinal direction. It also fulfils the other function of the fornix by sending down from the inferior surface two small nerve-like processes, which extend verti- cally, behind the anterior commissure, through the substance of the optic thalami, near their mesial surfaces, to the corpus albicans, at the base of the brain. The superior view of the connexions of the hippocampal commissure of the Wombat is given at m, n, o, fig. 117. If in the Beaver's brain the posterior thick- ened margin of the corpus callosum be raised, it is observed at the middle of its inferior sur- face to be closely connected with the centre of a commissural band of fibres, arching over the anterior part of the optic thalami, and passing outwards and backwards along the floor of the lateral ventricles into the substance of the hip- pocampi, which are as largely developed as in the Wombat. The anterior part of the corpus callosum is bent downwards, and is attached along the middle line of its inferior surface by a uniting medium of medullary substance, re- presenting the septum lucidum, to the hippo- campal commissure or fornix ; the taenia; hip- pocampi extend forwards, as in the Wombat, into the anterior lobes. The corpus callosum being removed, and the commissural fibres of the hippocampi being left behind, the view of the Beaver's brain now corresponds with that obtained in the previous dissection of the brain of the Wombat, which we regard, therefore, as wanting the principal massof thecorpus callosum,theseptumlucidum, and consequently the fifth ventricle. The ar- tery of the plexus choroides, (p, fig. 117,) in both the Beaver and Wombat, enters the lateral ventricle, where the hippocampus commences at the base of the hemisphere, and the plexus is continued along the under surface of the taenia hippocampi, and passes beneath the fornix, through the usual foramen, to commu- nicate with its fellow in the third ventricle im- mediately behind the anterior crura of the fornix, which are sent down in the Beaver, as in the Wombat, from the centre of the inferior surface of the hippocampal commissure. If we expose the lateral ventricle by removing its outer parietes in a marsupial and placental quadruped, as, for example, in the Kangaroo and Ass, the hippocampus major, the taenia hippocampi, the plexus choroides, and the foramen Monroianum are brought into view. If a style be thrust transversely through the inter- nal wall of the ventricle, immediately above the hippocampus, in the placental quadruped, it perforates the septum lucidum and enters the opposite ventricle below the corpus callo- sum. If the same be done in the marsupial brain the style passes into the opposite ventricle, but is immediately brought into view from above by divaricating the hemispheres, and is seen lying above the fornix or commissure of the hippocampi. This commissure may, nevertheless, be re- garded as representing, besides the fornix, the rudimental commencement of the corpus callo- sum ; but this determination does not invalidate the fact that the great commissure which unites the supra-ventricular masses in the Beaver, the Bat, and all other placentally developed