53 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. thinner than natural, but were not ulcerated. The elbow-joints were in a normal condition. The joint of the index finger contained a thin greyish coloured matter, which was not con- fined to the joint, being also found in the mus- cles external to it. The cartilages on the head of the metacarpal bone and corresponding sur- face of the index finger were much ulcerated and partially removed. The knee-joints con- tained a large quantity of a viscid greenish matter like lime-water and oil. Behind the right knee-joint, and extending down to the gastrocnemii muscles, matter of somewhat a similar character, except that no synovial fluid was mixed with it, occupied the interstices of the muscles and the cellular tissue of the lower part of the poplitceal region. The hip-joint did not contain any matter. The basilic vein of the right arm was plugged up with a dense coagulum, which closely ad- hered to its internal tunic, and was not easily separable from it. There was no pus in the vein; its exterior presented an unusual red co- lour. On opening the cavity of the chest a quan- tity of serum escaped. There was a great quantity of a very yellow lymph effused on the surface of the pleura of both lungs, principally the right. In many places it was very thick, rough, and consistent. On the diaphragm and in the right side of the chest the lymph was soft, of a greenish colour, being in shreds easily removed, and leaving the subjacent mem- brane highly vascular. There were also evi- dences of interlobular pleuritis having existed : all division into lobes had been effaced. The lungs presented specimens of pneumonia in its three stages. A very small portion of the apex of the left lung alone seemed healthy, but even here the bronchial membrane was en- gaged and presented evidences of bronchitis having existed. In the substance of the lungs there were also found small abscesses present- ing near their surface like little gangrenous abscesses surrounded by ecchymosedred spots ; these contained some grumous dark-coloured fluid, which, however, was inodorous. In others was found an ill-digested purulent matter ; and leading to one of these disorganized portions of the right lung near its apex, the minute veins on very careful dissection were found thickened, with yellow parietes ; and many of those present at the examination satisfied them- selves that these minute veins contained puru- lent matter. The heart and pericardium were natural. The most careful examination could discover nothing abnormal in the uterus. The large intestines throughout presented numerous ulcerations on their mucous surface; the neigh- bourhood of the lleo-ceecal valve being most beset by them. The mucous membrane was in a state of hyperemia. The prognosis in cases of acute arthritis genu is in general very unfavourable except when the disease accompanies what has been usually termed rheumatic fever. In this case the syno- vial system of all the articulations is visited in succession, until the inflammatory disease ex- hausts itself as it were in three or four weeks, often leaving no trace behind. It is, however, well known to medical men that in the course of these fevers fatal metastasis may occur from the synovial membrane of the knee or other joint to the pericardium or peritoneum.* In some few cases, after the general rheumatic fever and acute specific arthritis had subsided, we have known the chronic rheumatism, or nodosity of the joints, to set in, remaining permanently to interrupt the patient's health. Not long ago there was a young woman in the Richmond Hospital, under the care of Dr. Hutton, having acute arthritis of the right knee-joint, which had remained after a severe attack of general rheumatic fever. All the joints in succession had been visited by in- flammation. The fever, with its debilitating accompaniments, profuse perspirations, &c. subsided, but the local symptoms of acute arthritis of the right knee-joint continued, and increased even to suppuration, nor did ampu- tation of the limb save the patient's life. These unfavourable results of acute arthritis, of the rheumatic form, may be considered as excep- tions. In general the form of inflammation of the joints, commonly called rheumatic fever, terminates favourably; on the contrary, in cases where the knee-joints and other articulations are engaged during an attack of diffuse inflam- mation, puerperal arthritis, or phlebitis, the prognosis is most unfavourable, the disease in all these cases being generally fatal whether the joints be implicated or not. Anatomical characters of the acute arthritis of the knee.—On examining the interior of a knee-joint which had recently been the seat of acute inflammation, we find that the synovial fluid has accumulated in the cavity of the joint, and that it is mixed with purulent matter; when this is removed, we perceive that the synovial sac has been widened and enlarged, and that the subsynovial tissue is much infiltrated, causing the synovial mem- brane to be raised up above the level of the articular cartilages. We have seen the syno- vial membrane or subsynovial tissue as red as the conjunctiva oculi in acute purulent ophthal- mia. In these cases the articular cartilages lose much of their natural white silvery lustre, become yellowish, and are found softened at their edges or circumference, where the ele- vated and inflamed synovial membrane is in contact with them. We have found the carti- lage of the patella softened and partially de- tached from the bone, even in very recent cases. In cutting down to the joint we have noticed an alteration in the natural colour of the muscles; and outside the synovial sac we often encounter abscesses containing true pus. Generally speaking this sac is of an intensely red colour, and covered here and there with a green but not very consistent layer of organi- z-ible lymph. Some fragments of thinned shreds of exfoliated articular cartilage, with serrated edges, hang into the cavity of the joint, and some portions are altogether free, * See Dublin Hosp. Rep. vol. ii. p. 321. vol. iv. p. 365.