55 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. cartilage, and the convexity of the villous mem- brane seems sunk into foveas formed in the cartilage, so as to leave no doubt of the vital mechanism, if we can so say, of the process, which seems quite analogous to the absorption of the sequestrum of a cylindrical bone, or the exfoliating piece of a flat bone. The writer presented to the Pathological Society of Dub- lin a recent specimen and a drawing of the knee-joint of a man aged seventy, William Walsh, who died the day previously (13th Dec. 1839) in the House of Industry, of an attack of acute arthritis genu which had supervened on a chronic disease of the joint of long standing. The synovial sac of the joint had been much distended and was more capacious than usual. It was greatly thickened, and presented on its internal surface an intense scarlet colour. Ex- tensive deposits of a yellowish green lymph were noticed over the entire of the synovial sac : the strong contrast in colour between the green lymph and the red villous synovial mem- brane is well seen in the preparation. The cru- cial ligaments were partially removed, and it was found on dissection that the internal and external lateral ligaments had lost all their dis- tinctness as fibrous bands; both seemed to be resolved and spread out into thin membranes or fasciae, which but little restrained the move- ments of the knee, and allowed of a motion of rotation being communicated to the joint. The articular and semilunar cartilages were removed, and the denuded porous surfaces of the bones of the tibia, femur, and patella presented nu- merous small red spots, as if they had been sprinkled with red sand. An abscess contain- ing about two ounces of yellowish green pus, of a laudable consistence, was found under the crurceus muscle, just above the synovial sac of the joint: this abscess was isolated, and had no communication whatever with the interior of the sac of the joint. The fluid in the interior of the articulation was more of a thin sanies than pus, but was abundant in quantity, and had made its way externally by a large sloughy- looking opening in front of the leg, about two inches below the knee. Michael Smith, 58 years of age, was admitted into the Richmond Hospital in 1838, labouring under erysipelas of the head. During the course of the disease, one of his knee-joints became hot and swollen, the patella seemed to float, and on each side of it a fluctuation be- came evident. He was more or less insensible from the erysipelas of the head, but when the knee-joint was moved, he exhibited signs of suffering. On the eighth day after the" knee- joint was first affected, he died of the erysipelas of the head. The knee-joint was carefully inspected, fine red injection having been previ- ously thrown into the femoral artery. The synovial sac of the articulation was distended by a turbid yellowish-green fluid, apparently composed of a mixture of pus and synovia. When this was washed away, the synovial membrane was found not so much thickened as in the former case, nor had it so much of the vivid scarlet colour as the last specimen alluded to; and reminded those who examined it of the appearance which the conjunctiva presents in subacute conjunctivitis. This membrane ap- peared to be thickened and pulpy where it had already advanced somewhat over the external condyle of the femur. The subsynovial tissues were more or less infiltrated. The cartilages had lost their normal whiteness and brilliancy, and were of a murky yellowish hue; they were somewhat softened in their substance, and the cartilaginous covering of the patella was slightly elevated, in patches, and one spot of ulceration was seen at the circumference of its external edge. The cartilage covering this bone was so soft that the blunt probe easily penetrated into its structure. Many would call this a case of simple synovitis genu, but it is manifest that, although the acute disease in the knee originated in the synovial membrane, the other structures of the joint very soon became implicated, and that, at the period of the patient's death, which was only a few days after the first attack of the joint, the term of synovitis of the knee-joint was not sufficiently comprehensive. We have had many opportunities of examining the knee- joints of those who have died of diffuse inflam- mation, which has occurred in females some short time after parturition, and in those cases denominated puerperal rheumatism, and in cases where the arthritis of the knee or other joints was concurrent with phlebitis ; and in such cases we have found the most remarkable phenomena to be,—great effusion into the knee- joint of a fluid which would seem to be com- posed of equal parts of pus and synovial fluid. This was viscid, of a sea-green colour, and of the consistence of honey. In cutting down to the joint in these cases we frequently met with ill-digested matter in and amongst the muscles surrounding the affected articulation. The synovial membrane was of a pink colour. The articular cartilages presented an appearance which was rather peculiar. We have found them generally to preserve their normal adhesion to bone, to be smooth on their surface, but to be evidently thinned, and so reduced as to form a stratum covering the condyles of the femur scarcely half a line in thickness. The inter-articular cartilages externally preserve their normal appearance, but we can occasionally discover that after an attack of acute arthritis of the description now under consideration, these structures shew that they are permeated inter- nally by capillary vessels containing red blood. We have had many,—too many examples lately- verifying the above description of the anatomical appearances presented on the examination of the knee-joints of those who have died of dif- fuse inflammation. Simple chronic arthritis of the knee.—The symptoms which denote the existence of simple chronic inflammation of the knee-joint are very similar to those belonging to the acute affection of this articulation, being only slower in the different stages of their developement and milder in their character. The simple chronic arthritis genu commences with a pain which the patient usually refers to the inner side of the joint. This pain is not sufficient to prevent him from following his