92 LACRYMAL ORGANS. It lies, by its inner and posterior surface, in the lacrymal groove, with the periosteum of which it is closely incorporated. Its an- terior and outer surface, which lies without the groove, is immediately covered by a strong aponeurosis derived from the upper and lower edge of the horizontal tendon of the orbicularis muscle, which passes across the la- crymal sac a little above the centre. This apo- neurosis adheres to the margins of the bony groove in which the sac is lodged, and there becomes continuous with the periosteum. More superficially, the anterior and outer surface is covered by the muscular fibres of the orbicu- laris and by the skin. Above the lacrymal sac forms a cul-de-sac or blind end,—-finis cascus sacci lacrymalis. Be- low it passes into the nasal duct. This transi- tion is marked by a slight contraction, some- times inside, by a circular fold of the mucous membrane, of which both are formed. At its anterior and outer part, a little below its upper blind end, and immediately behind the internal palpebral ligament, the lacrymal sac receives the canalicules. Overhanging the orifices of these there is a small semilunar fold of the mucous membrane of the sac* The nasal duct; ductus nasulis; Fr., Le canal nasal; Ital., 17 condottu nasale; Germ., Der Nasenkanal, is a laterally compressed canal, about three-quarters of an inch in length, and readily admitting the passage of a probe the fifteenth of an inch thick, continued from the lower part of the lacrymal sac. Itruns downwards, backwards, and a little outwards in the osseous canal already described, of which it is indeed nothing but the membraneous lining. The nasal duct is more contracted in its middle than at either extremity. It opens in the anterior and upper part of the lower meatus, at the lateral wall of the nasal cavity, and about one inch from the entrance of the nostril. Its ori- fice, which is overhung by the lower spongy bone, is a long fissure, oblique from above downwards and from within outwards. The obliquity of the orifice of the nasal duct is owing to the circumstance that the posterior or external wall of the membraneous part of the nasal duct descends farther than the osseous canal, and forms, by means of the folded pitui- tary membrane, a semi-canal, which descends in the external wall of the lower meatus, whilst the internal wall of the membraneous part of the nasal duct is shorter, and terminates where the osseous canal stops. The lacrymal sac and nasal duct are com- posed of a thick soft mucous membrane, which must be considered as productive of that of the nose. Externally, this mucous membrane is united with the periosteum of the osseous sur- faces in connection with the lacrymal sac and nasal duct, and as far as concerns that part of the lacrymal sac not in the osseous groove, by the aponeurosis derived from the tendo palpe- brarum. Internally, the mucous membrane of the la- crymal sac and nasal duct forms various small * Rosenmuller, op. cit. § 125. plicse or rugae. Red and villous, it is quite different from the white and smooth mucous membrane of the canalicules. Like the pitui- tary membrane of the nose, it secretes, in the healthy state, a clear, mild, fluid mucus. Lacrymal or tensor tarsi muscle.—Here is perhaps the proper place to notice a muscle which was discovered many years ago by M. Duverney,* delineated and described by Rosen- mullert in 1805, and more recently re-described by Dr. Horner, J an American anatomist, with whose name it is now commonly associated. To get a view of this muscle, Professor Hor- ner directs us to cut through the eyelids and separate them from the ball, except at the inner can thus; then turn the lids over the nose, re- move the semilunar fold and the conjunctiva in the neighbourhood, with the fatty matter, when the muscle, such as it is represented in the fol- lowing description, will be seen. " The tensor tarsi arises from the posterior superior part of the os unguis, just in advance of the vertical suture between the os planum and the os unguis. Having advanced three lines, it bifurcates; one bifurcation is inserted along the upper lacrymal canalicule, and terminates at its punctum, or near it; and the lower bifur- cation has the same relation to the lower lacry- mal canalicule. The base of the lacrymal caruncle is placed in the angle of the bifurcation. The superior and the inferior margins of the muscle touch the corresponding fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum, where the latter is connected with the margin of the internal can- thus of the eye, but may be readily distin- guished by their horizontal course. The nasal face of this muscle adheres very closely to that portion of the sac which it covers, and also to the lacrymal canalicules. The lacrymal sac rises about a line above its superior margin, and extends in the orbit four lines below its inferior margin. The orbital face of the muscle is covered by a lamina of cellular membrane, and between this lamina and the ball of the eye are placed the semilunar fold of the conjunctiva, and a considerable quantity of adipose matter. As the bifurcated extremities of the muscle fol- low the course of the canalicules, they are co- vered by the conjunctiva. The muscle is an oblong body, half an inch in length, and about one quarter wide, bifurcated at one end ; and it arises much deeper from the orbit than any ac- knowledged origin of the orbicularis. The su- * CEuvres Anatomiques de M. Duverney, torn. ii. 4to., Paris, 1761. After speaking of the fibres of the orbicularis which lie over the lacrymal sac, it is said (torn. i. p. 130), " Entre ces fibres, il y a un petit muscle an dedans du grand angle qui prend son origine de la partie anterieure de l'os planum et s'insere a la partie interne du tendon mitoyen on commun a l'appose de l'orbiculaire ; c'est un petit muscle que j'ai observe il y a long-temps." f Rosenmiiller, Icones Chirurgioo-Anatomica;. Wiemar, 1805. See also Mackenzie in Medical Gazette, vol. xi. i Medical Repository for July, 1822. See also, A Treatise on Special and General Anatomy, by William E. Horner, M. D., Professor of Anatomy in the University of Pennsylvania, &c. vol. ii. p. 498. Philadelphia, 1826.