NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Spinal Cord.) 651 the centre of which lies the filiform prolon- gation or process of the pia mater. The su- perior limit of the spinal cord is marked by the plane which lies between the occipital foramen and the first vertebra of the neck. A section made in the direction of this plane separates the spinal cord from the medulla oblongata. Immediately above this plane the decussation of fibres of the anterior pyramids takes place, and may be regarded as the na- tural inferior limit to the medulla oblongata. Such is the position of the spinal cord in the adult. In the foetus at the third month of intra-uterine life, it occupies the whole spinal canal, and extends quite to the point of the sacrum. At this early period the os coccygis consists of seven vertebrae. Coincident with its reduction to its normal number of segments, is the retraction of the spinal cord within the spinal canal. If the ascent of the cord be ar- rested, the foetus is born with a tail, for the changes of the coccyx become arrested also. It is remarkable that among the inferior animals there is a direct proportion between the length of the spinal cord and that of the tail. The shorter the former, or the higher in the spinal canal it may be, the less will be the latter. In animals with long tails there is no cuuda equina, as is the case in the ox, the horse, the squirrel, Jkc. and the opposite is likewise true, namely, that in animals with a short tail the spinal cord is much shorter and is placed higher up in the spinal canal. In the embryo of the bat, which has a tail, the spinal cord extends down- wards, but when it loses its tail the cord ap- pears to occupy a much smaller portion of the spinal canal. In the tadpole of the frog, like- wise, the spinal cord extends into the tad, but when the tail has disappeared the cord occupies only a portion of the spinal canal.* In point of shape, the spinal cord is cylin- droid, slightly flattened on its anterior and pos- terior surfaces, more so on the former than on the latter. At its inferior extremity it gradually tapers to a point. Sometimes, however, we observe a small tubercle immediately above this pointed extremity, situated on the posterior surface. The perfect cylindrical form of the cord is destroyed, not only by this pointed ter- mination and the flattening before and behind, but likewise by a marked change of dimen- sions in certain regions. In the cervical re- gion we observe a distinct swelling or enlarge- ment, which begins a short distance beneath the medulla oblongata, and gradually passes into the dorsal portion, which is the smallest, as well as the most cylindrical part of the cord. This cervical enlargement (intumescentia cervi- cutis) begins opposite the third cervical vertebra, and ends about the third dorsal. The cord con- tinues of a cylindrical form as low as about the ninth or tenth dorsal vertebra, and then passes into the lumbar swelling (intumescentia lumbalis vel cruralis), which occupies a space corresponding to about two vertebra;. This swelling is both shorter and of less diameter * Cuvier's Report upon Sorms' work, Sur 1'Anat. Comp. Uu Cerveau. Par. 1824. than that in the region of the neck. The inferior extremity of the spinal cord tapers rather sud- denly, and at its point is enclosed in the com- mencement of the filiform prolongation of the pia mater. The bulk of the spinal cord is in the direct ratio to that of the body throughout the verte- brate series. And not only is this true with regard to the whole cord, but with respect to its segments. For when any segment supplies nerves to a greater sentient surface, or to more numerous or more powerful muscles than an- other, it exhibits a proportionally greater size. It is thus that we may satisfactorily explain the occurrence of the cervical and lumbar enlarge- ments. Both supply nerves to the extremities, whilst the dorsal portion furnishes them only to the trunk. The upper extremities enjoy, in part, a high degree of tactile sensibility, and they possess great power and extent of mus- cular movement. That portion of the cord therefore from which the nerves to the upper extremities proceed is larger in every way than that which supplies the lower extremities, which, although provided with large and pow- erful muscles, do not enjoy such a range or variety of motion as the upper extremities, nor are they endowed with so exquisite a sensi- bility. There are many interesting facts among the lower animals which illustrate and confirm this law. Thus, in animals which have no limbs, as serpents, the cord is of equal size through- out, excepting at its pointed extremity. It is said that in the foetus, before the developement of the limbs, no distinction of size can be dis- covered in the cord, and in persons in whom an arrest in the developement of the upper extremities has taken place, there is no cervical enlargement. Cruveilhier refers to the case of the tortoise as strongly confirmatory of this law. That portion of the spinal cord which corre- sponds to the carapace, which is equally devoid of sensation and motion, is reduced to a mere thread, whilst those segments between which it lies, and from which the nerves of the ex- tremities emanate, are of size duly propor- tionate to their muscular activity and their sen- sibility. In Fishes, the enlargements corre- spond to the fins which are possessed of great- est muscular power. In the gurnard there exist certain very remarkable ganglionic swel- lings, situate on the posterior part of the cer- vical segment of the cord. With these swel- lings nerves are connected, which are distri- buted to organs placed immediately behind the head on the lower part of the body. These organs are endowed with much tactile sensibi- lity, and seem to serve the office of feelers, as the animal gropes along the bottom of the sea. The length of the spinal cord in the adult is from sixteen to eighteen inches, according to the statement of Cruveilhier. Its circumfe- rence measures twelve lines at the smallest and eighteen lines at the most voluminous part. Chaussier states that its weight is from the nineteenth to the twenty-fifth part of that of the brain in the adult, and about the fortieth