644 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nerv ius Centres. The Meninges.) posed in the performance of the experiment, ought fairly to be considered to have a share, and that not an inconsiderable one, in any im- pairment of the nervous ('unction that might become apparent. The sudden removal of the fluid brings on fainting or even death, effects due to shock, and analogous to those which result from the sudden removal of dropsical fluid in particular cavities, when the organs and the circulation in them have become adapted to its pressure, as in cases of ascites, hydrotho- rax, &c. The interior of the arachnoid sac is moistened by an exhalation of a similar kind to that which is found in the other serous membranes. Ac- cumulations of fluid in the arachnoid sac, how- ever, are of very rare occurrence. Of the glandulce, Pacchioni.—To these bo- dies we have already had occasion to refer in the description of the sinuses. We proceed now with a more special notice of them. These bodies were first formally described by Pacchioni, and were regarded by him as con- globate glands of the dura mater, from which lymphatics proceeded to the pia mater.* They have been recognized by all subsequent anato- mists under the name here assigned to them, although the idea of their physiological office suggested by Pacchioni has not met with ge- neral acceptation. Bichat suggested a more appropriate and scientific appellation in that of cerebral granulations. No anatomists have in- vestigated the history of these bodies so exten- sively as the brothers Wenzel.f The Pacchionian bodies are found principally along the edge of the great hemispheres of the brain on either side of the great longitudinal fissure. Here, in general, they cause the obli- teration of the sac of the aiachnoid for a greater or less distance by producing adhesion between the visceral layer of that membrane and that portion of its parietal layer which adheres to the angle along the superior border of the falx cerebri. In cases where these bodies are numerous and well developed, it is found very difficult to separate the dura mater from the subjacent arachnoid by reason of the firmness of the adhesion effected by them; and when this adhesion exists, the corresponding surface of the dura mater has generally a very com- plicated cribriform appearance. The extent of surface which they occupy is very variable. Sometimes, but very rarely, they extend along the entire edge of each cerebral hemisphere; but generally they occupy its central part for an extent of from one to three inches. Very frequently they extend outwards over the sur- face of the cerebral hemispheres, rarely beyond half an inch or an inch. The arachnoid mem- brane in their immediate vicinity is always opaque. Bodies, somewhat similar, are also found oc- * Ant. Pacchioni diss, epistolaris ad Luc. Schroeckhhim de glandulis conglobatis dura; me- ningis humanae, &c. &c. Rom. 1705, et Opuscu- lum Anatomicum de dura meninge, in Opera Omnia. Koin. 1741. t Wenzel, de penitiori cerebri structura. Tu- bings, 1812. casionally on the choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles. Very frequently we meet with gra- nulations of a like kind in the fringe-like pro- cess of pia mater which descends from the velum interppsitum to surround the pineal gland, and also upon the little processes of that membrane which go under the name of choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle. Wherever these bodies are found, they show a remarkable tendency to congregate in clusters around venous trunks. In examining them along the edges of the hemispheres, we find that they are most numerous around the veins which pass from the pia mater in that situation into the superior longitudinal sinus. This ten- dency, probably, explains the occurrence of these bodies in some of the sinuses. They are most commonly met with in the superior longi- tudinal sinus, as already stated ; they are also found in the lateral sinuses, and sometimes but rarely in the straight sinus. In all these situ- ations these bodies appear to stand in a similar relation to the sinuses; they have penetrated the fibrous tunic of their walls, and pushed before them the inner or venous tunic. f n point of size and shape the Pacchionian bodies resemble minute granulations ; their co- lour is white, like that of coagulable lymph, and not unlike that which is occasionally seen upon serous surfaces after chronic inflamma- tion. A granular lymph, taking somewhat a similar form, is occasionally seen on the mu- cous membrane of the rectum after dysentery. At some parts the granulations appear simply as isolated elevations of the surface of the arachnoid membrane. At others they are col- lected in clusters round a common stem ; and when the membrane is removed and floated in water, this bothryoidal disposition may be well displayed. A large proportion of them cause, by their pressure, an adhesion between the opposed surfaces of arachnoid membrane; and those which are attached to a stem are the most likely to project into the interior of the sinuses. When examined by a microscope, each of these bodies appears to consist of a mass of minute granules enclosed in a membranous sac; when the body is pediculated, its stalk exhibits a series of strire which take the direction of its length, and probably result from longi- tudinal folds of the membrane which forms it. Dilute acetic acid causes them to swell and gelatinifies the bodies, and sometimes displays epithelial scales upon the surface of the mem- brane which covers them. The following explanation of this structure may be offered. The primary deposit of granular lymph takes place among the vessels of the pia mater. The small bodies thus formed push the arachnoid membrane before them as a sac or covering; in some instances the granular mass is only partially covered, and then it causes merely a slight projection on the surface of the visceral layer of aiachnoid ; but in others the mass is completely covered, and a stalk is gradually formed; and.when several granular masses have been deposited immedi- ately contiguous to each other, they may all