NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nerve.) 591 no means free from them, and they will be employed in the course of this article. Such are the only subdivisions of the nervous system which anatomy appears to warrant. Others have been proposed; but as they are founded upon physiological opinions which are as yet hypothetical, it is unnecessary to discuss them at present. Having thus given a brief and general account of the nervous system and of nervous matter, we proceed to consider the anatomy and phy- siology of this system under the following divisions:—I. The general anatomy of nerves. II. The comparative anatomy OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM OR ITS DISPOSI- TION THROUGHOUT THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. III. THE ANATOMY OF THE NERVOUS CEN- TRES, THE GANGLIA, BRAIN, AND SPINAL CORD. IV. AND LASTLY, THE OFFICE OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM AND THE FUNCTIONS OF ITS VARIOUS PARTS. NERVE.-—(vtv^ov, nervus; Germ, nerve; Er. nerf.) The nerves perform the internuncial office in the nervous system by maintaining communications between the various organs and tissues and the nervous centres. They are bundles of threads of various size, surrounded by sheaths of membrane, with more or less of areolar tissue interposed. The nerves of the cerebro-spinal system and of the great sympathetic exhibit such different characters as regards their anatomy, that they may be examined separately. Cerebro-spinal nerves.-—In examining a cere- bro-spinal nerve, we find it invested by a sheath of membrane, which has adherent to its inner surface thin layers of areolar tissue which pass, like so many partitions, between the threads or fibres of which the nerve is composed. This sheath is commonly called the neurilemma; it is analogous to the sheath which surrounds mus- cles. Its office is chiefly mechanical, namely, that of binding the constituent fibrillar and fas- cicles of the nerve together, so as to protect them and to support the delicate plexus of capillary bloodvessels from which they derive their nutriment. The neurilemma is composed of fibres of the white fibrous kind. It exhibits to the naked eye the appearance of a fibrous membrane, white and almost silvery; and its microscopic characters are those of the white fibrous ele- ment, although not presenting much appearance of wavy fibres. The fibres are, for the most part, parallel to the axis of the nerve; but there are some which cross the nerve at right angles, or appear to pass spirally round it. The septa between the secondary bundles of the nerves seem to consist of a less perfect fibrous tissue, containing the remains of numerous cytoblasts. A yellow fibrous tissue of the finest kind exists here in very small quantity. The bloodvessels are distributed upon the external investing sheath and upon the septa. In some of the large nerves, the sciatic for example, these may be often seen minutely injected with blood. They are disposed some- what similarly to those of muscles, running parallel to the fibres and fascicles of the nerve. The capillaries are among the smallest in the body : they form oblong meshes of considerable length, completed at long intervals by vessels which cross the fibres of the nerve more or less in the transverse direction. Henle assigns to them, when empty, a diameter not exceeding gJjjth of an inch. These bloodvessels are generally derived from neighbouring arterial branches; sometimes a special vessel accom- panies a nervous trunk, and even perforates it, passing along its central axis, as is well known to descriptive anatomists in the sciatic and the optic nerves. After the external part of the neurilemma has been dissected off, the nerve may be torn by needles and divided into secondary bundles and fibres. The ultimate fibre can then be readily distinguished by the aid of the microscope, from its being incapable of further subdivision by mechanical means ; and an accurate knowledge of its structure is of the utmost importance to the formation of correct opinions respecting the actions of the nervous system. The ultimate (or, as it is also called, the pri- mitive) nervous fibre, is a tube composed of a fine transparent homogeneous membrane, in a great degree resembling the sarcolemma of muscle. It is elastic, like that membrane, per- fectly homogeneous, and, according to Schwann, in young nerves has the nuclei of cells connected with it. It may be called the tubular membrane of nerve {a, Jig- 329). The contents of this tube consist in a soft, semifluid, whitish, pulpy sub- stance, which is readily pressed out of its cut extremity. In the nerve that is quite fresh, having been taken from an animal just dead, this pulpy matter is quite transparent and appa- rently homogeneous. The tube membrane pre- sents the appearance of a delicate line, resem- Fig. 329. Nerve tubes altered by re-agents. a, tube altered by water. The light external line is the tubular membrane ; the dark inner double- edged one, broken here and there, is the while substance of Schwann, b, shows the change pro- duced by the action of ether on the nerve-tube of the common eel; several oil globules have coalesced in the interior, and others have accumulated around the exterior of the tube.