LACRYMAL ORGANS. 91 of the lowest spongy bone and the posterior margin of the groove in the superior maxillary, constituting the anterior and outer walls. The internal wall of the osseous nasal canal is formed superiorly by a continuation of the osseous surfaces composing the lacrymal groove. Below, it is formed, in front, by a farther con- tinuation of one of these surfaces, viz. that of the superior maxillary bone, and behind by a thin plate of the lowest spongy bone, the nasal or lacrymal process of the lowest spongy bone, which rises to join the inferior edge of the lacrymal. The anterior edge of this process of the spongy bone joins the posterior edge of the lower part of the lacrymal surface of the nasal process of the superior maxillary. The line of junction is thus the continuation of that at the bottom of the lacrymal groove. Lacrymal papilla, points and canalicules.-—- (Fig. 15.) At the inner extremity of theciliary Fig. 15. Continuation of Figure 11, showing the relative situa- tion of the upper mass of the lacrymal gland, and the exact shape of the derivative lacrymal passages. ( From Suemmerring.) a, h, c, d, superior and inferior lacrymal canali- culi; a, a, lacrymal points; b, b, the small blind dilatations presented by the lacrymal canalicules, where they bend inwards to the lacrymal sac ; c, c, continuation of the lacrymal canalicules; d, d, their entrance into the lacrymal sac ; e,f,g, lacry- mal sac ; e, blind end of the lacrymal sac ; f, middle part of the lacrymal sac ; g, its termination ; h, i, nasal duct •, i, opening of the nasal duct into the nose. margin of each eyelid, where the fissure of the nasal canthus begins, there has been already de- scribed a small papillary eminence, lacrymal papilla, papilla lacrymalis, in the summit of which is a small orifice, lacrymal point, of such a size as to admit a thick bristle. The lacrymal points, puncla lacrymaliu; Fr. Les points lacrymaux; Ital. I punti lagrimali; Germ. Die T/ir'dnenpunkten; are from their size and situation sufficiently conspicuous as not to be confounded with one of the orifices of the Meibomian follicles. In the natural state the lacrymal papilla are inclined towards the lacus lacrymalis. The lower papilla is somewhat more prominent than the upper, and situate some- what more towards the temple. The lacrymal canalicules, canaliculi lacrymales, s. cornua limacum; Fr. Les conduits lacrymaux; Ital. I condotti lagrimali; Germ. Die Thrdnen- kandlchen; lead from the lacrymal points into the lacrymal sac. From the superior lacrymal point the superior canalicule proceeds upwards and outwards within the papilla a little way, then suddenly bending at an acute angle and forming at the same time a small dilatation, it runs downwards and inwards, inclosed in the fold of skin and conjunctiva forming the upper border of the fissure of the nasal can- thus, to the lacrymal sac. The course of the inferior canalicule is the counterpart of the above. From the lower point it runs a short way perpendicularly downwards and outwards within the corresponding papilla, then bend- ing abruptly and like the upper forming a small dilatation, it proceeds upwards and in- wards, inclosed in the fold of skin and con- junctiva forming the lower border of the fissure of the nasal canthus, to the lacrymal sac. The canalicules having met each other at the commissure of the fissure of the nasal canthus, pass under the tendon of the orbicularis mus- cle, and open by separate orifices, close to each other however, into the anterior and outer part of the lacrymal sac. These orifices indeed are separated merely by a duplicature of the mucous membrane composing their walls. The lacrymal canalicules have pretty firm walls of mucous membrane, which do not col- lapse, but when cut across are seen gaping open. The calibre of the canaliculi is about the thirtieth of an inch in diameter; that of the points is less, but these are capable of being dilated. The canaliculi are immediately surrounded by the fibres of the internal palpebral ligament, and those of the tensor tarsi muscle. Lacrymal sac ; saccus lacrymalis ; Fr., Le sac lacrymal; Ital. II sacco lagrimale; Germ., Der Thrdnensack.—(Fig. 16). This is a membra- neous reservoir of a vertically elongated form, and externally compressed, nine-twentieths of an inch long, and two-tenths broad externally. Fig. 16. Derivative lacrymal passages of the left side, seen from the side of tlie nasal cavity. Here it is seen that the nasal duct is much broader viewed from the side than from before, a, b, superior and inferior lacrymal canaliculi; c, d, lacrymal sac ; e, f, nasal duct; /, nasal orifice of the nasal duct, seen quite in its natural state.