ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. epiglottis, in every ease that,I have seen, more or less removed by ulceration. The whole eon- figuration of the organ is lost or spoiled, aud scarcely bears a resemblance to the natural shape and appearance of a healthy larynx. We cannot even form a conjecture of the causes that occasion this formidable disease, or of the circumstances that dispose to its production. At some time beyond the middle period of life the cartilages of the larynx, except the epiglottis, and often of the trachea also, become converted into bone, and from the circumstance of carious bone being so constantly found in these ab- scesses, it would appear that it is either during the process of ossification or immediately after- wards that the disease commences. I have always imagined that it was at the former of these periods, and that the affection was pro- duced by some imperfection or irregularity in, or deviation from, the ordinary and natural pro- cess—in a word, that this earthy unorganized material was formed instead of healthy bone. I had once an opportunity of seeing a case which I regarded as an example of the commencement of this disease, in the person of a man who, having suffered from laryngeal symptoms for some months, suddenly died in the Meath Hospital, ap- parently from the effects of spasm. "On slitting up the larynx, the cricoid cartilage appeared to be highly vascular and organised. Its substance was internally as red as blood, and in three or four places there were specks of an earthy white substance that crackled under the knife,and was evidently of the same nature with that usually found in caries of the laryngeal cartilages." I am aware that one case can prove but little, particularly in pathological science, but oppor- tunities of seeing the incipient stages of such an affection as this must be very rare, and every case ought to be recorded that will in any man- ner tend to throw light on a disease the etiology of which is so extremely obscure. However occasioned, this earthy degeneration of the laryngeal cartilages is an extremely in- sidious disease, its approach being so gradual as scarcely to alarm the patient, and its progress slow. There is usually sore throat and difficulty of swallowing, although this latter is not neces- sarily a constant symptom; hoarseness, and at first but triflingly impeded respiration. These inconveniences in the commencement are not such as to produce much distress; for I have known one patient suffer for three months and another nearly nine, beforeeither applied for relief, and in both the disease had a fatal termination. Afterwards, however, the symptoms become much more aggravated, the difficulty of breath - ing is exceedingly distressing, and there are exa- cerbations that bring the patient to the point of death by suffocation. I have already noticed one case in which dissolution took place at a very early period, and when the occurrence could only be explained by the suddenness and severity of the spasm. At length, as the dys- pncea becomes extreme, the patient suddenly experiences some partial relief; his cough, which was before teasingand troublesome,now becomes softer, and the expectoration free and copious. This latter has all the characters of purulent matter, and there are, mixed with it, particles of that white, gritty, earthy substance already described. Occasionally, pieces of the size of a pea of this unorganised substance are coughed up, and when they appear they leave very little doubt of the nature of the complaint. Towards the latter end of the disease the breathing be- comes loud and sonorous, with a whistling noise, so as to be heard at a considerable dis- tance. The cough is incessant; the expectora- tion copious, with a peculiarly fetid gangrenous smell; the patient's breath has this odour also, which may also be regarded as an unfavourable symptom. There is at all times convulsive struggling for breath, with occasional exacerba- tions. In most cases, but not in all, the chest becomes affected; there is pain in some one part of it or other, with a sensation of tightness round the thorax as if the patient could not draw a full inspiration. His strength seems to give way rapidly under these symptoms; his body becomes emaciated ; he has night sweats accompanied with excessive restlessness ; and at last he sinks exhausted in the struggle and dies. Throughout the entire progress of the dis- ease there is seldom any well-marked paroxysm of fever, although the pulse is never much under 100 ; however, this may be attributed to the constant irritation under which the patient labours. The tongue is usually clean ; the ap- petite good—in some instances ravenous ; and the general functions of the body, with the exception of respiration, seem to suffer but little. The countenance is always pale, with that sickly dirty hue that characterises hectic fever. The expression evinces great anxiety ; and this is so remarkable that patients suffering under this species of cynanche often seem to bear a strong resemblance to each other. It is now familiarly known to surgeons that even this dreadful condition is not utterly di- vested of hope, and patients in whom this dis- ease had wrought such ravages as to render the larynx quite unfit for the performance of its functions, nevertheless survived for years after an artificial opening had been practised in the trachea. Some of these patients have since died, and thus in a limited degree afforded op- portunity for examining the extent of destruc- tion produced, as well as proving the all-im- portant practical fact, that ulcerations here, how- ever extensive, are capable of being cicatrized if the organ is only left in a state of repose. In the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland is the larynx of a patient who lived for more than two years after having been ope- rated on by Mr. Purdon of Belfast, and the following are the appearances exhibited by the preparation. About half the epiglottis had been carried away, and the edge of the remnant is cicatrized. The space between the root of the epiglottis and the rima, rough on its sur- face, irregular and warty. The ventricles altered in shape, diminished in size, but not ob- literated. The dimensions of the rima greatly diminished. The canal of the larynx is not more than one-third of its natural size, and is lined by a thick uneven membrane, evidently