125 ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. mental researches of Magendie and Le Gallois, he supposes that, if the recurrent nerves are compressed to such an extent as to have their functions impaired, the glottis, under the in- fluence of the superior laryngeal branches, would become and continue fast closed. The cause of the disease then, according to him, will be found in some tumour, scrofulous or otherwise, so situated as to create an injurious degree of compression on the recurrent nerves. That an enlargement of the thymus gland may, from its situation, produce great and serious in- convenience, it would be absurd to question, and perhaps there is sufficient evidence to shew that it may occasion the symptoms and results of this very disease: but it is far from being proved that spasm of the glottis may not occur, and even prove fatal in cases where no such enlargement existed. Alterations of size, shape, and structure, even if rapid, take place gradu- ally, and their results should be gradual also, whereas this disease has been known to destroy its victim in its first and only paroxysm ; and moreover, if structural change in the gland was its sole exciting cause, it would be difficult to account for its sudden disappearance on the removal of the child to the country and its diet being changed. Whilst therefore it may not be denied that hypertrophy of the thymus can occasion the phenomena by others attributed to spasm of the glottis, there is not sufficient proof of its being the general or even frequent cause of this peculiar disease. I shall have occasion to notice the supposed consequences of pressure on the recurrent nerves hereafter. It is questionable how far spasm occasioned by the contact of noxious or irritating sub- stances can justly be termed sympathetic, for they are the results of an application of a di- rect stimulus: it is immediate in its effects, and more or less complete according to the nature or quality of the exciting cause. Death from total submersion in carbonic acid gas occurs so quickly as almost to seem instan- taneous, and the spasm entirely occludes the glottis. The mildest form of spasm seems to be that occasioned by the accidental admission of some particle of food which is usually expelled again very quickly by a cough suf- ficiently distressing but seldom dangerous : yet instances have been known of the apparently trifling occurrence of the introduction of a par- ticle of salt being attended by a fatal result. However, when spasm is, or appears to be produced by the presence of a foreign body in the oesophagus or the trachea, or by the pres- sure of an aneurismal tumour, it is evidently sympathetic, and it may be interesting to in- quire into the evidence by which such relation of cause and effect is established. I had formerly entertained the opinion that spasm of the glottis should be the consequence of some irritation applied to the larynx itself, and not external to or at a distance from it, and therefore that the presence of a foreign body in the oesophagus ought not to hold a place amongst its exciting causes. I have since, however, altered my views on the subject, and indeed, when we consider the number of cir- cumstances under which this morbid action may occur, we cannot be justified in denying it in this case in opposition to most respectable testimony. Mr. Kirby has published a case in the Dublin Hospital Reports, in which death was apparently produced by spasm of the glot- tis in consequence of the lodgment of pieces of meat and bone in the oesophagus: and Dr. Stokes saw an instance in which a piece of money was lodged in the oesophagus and where croupy breathing and other laryngeal sym- ptoms were manifestly the result. In this lat- ter instance the foreign body was not lodged in the fauces or pharynx. I have myself seen cases to corroborate the above, but it is need- less to swell this article with proofs of a patho- logical fact that will probably not be called in question. It is probably a new observation—at all events it is one of great pathological interest, that spasm of the glottis may be produced by the presence of a foreign body lodged within the bronchi. In the month of May, 1836, a child was brought from the country and placed under the care of my friend Mr. Cu- sack : his father's account of the case was that he had swallowed a small pebble, was instantly seized with a violent paroxysm of cough, had croupy or sonorous breathing ever since the accident with occasional remissions and exacer- bations, but was sometimes brought to the verge of suffocation. The stethoscopic indi- cations were that the foreign body was loose and mobile within the trachea. I assisted Mr. C. in performing the operation of tracheotomy on this child ; but, although the aperture in the windpipe was made very large, no stone was expelled, and the size of the organ did not admit of the employment of any forceps with which we were furnished. Immediately on the opening into the windpipe being perfected the croupy breathing disappeared, neither was there a severe paroxysm of cough experienced afterwards, and the father, either doubting that the foreign body had ever obtained admittance, or dissatisfied at its not being removed, ear- ned him off to the country contrary to the wishes and advice of his medical attendants. We afterwards heard that the little pebble had been coughed up in about three weeks after he left town, but have not been informed as to the ultimate termination of the case. On the 13th of September, 1839, a child, aged three years and a half, was brought to the Meath Hospital : he had, half an hour pre- viously, swallowed a small stone, and was in- stantly seized with a violent cough which con- tinued up to the period of admission. His breathing was quite stridulous—countenance expressive of great distress—face and lips lived—efforts at respiration hurried and gasp- ing. The left side of the chest heaved vio- lently, the right was comparatively quiet: re- spiration very weak and interrupted in the right lung, in the left loud and puerile : no dulness over either lung on percussion. I per- formed the operation of tracheotomy, but no foreign body was expelled, and yet the little patient experienced the greatest relief. The