MOTION. 476 motion by a force o m perpendicular to o c; by the extension of the thigh at the same time the centre will be also urged by a force o n, perpendicular to the radius od; the resultant of these two forces is o d, in the direction of which the centre of gravity is raised in the first instant of motion, and the body and foot will be in the position a, b, c,' d,' e,' d, J',' g. If the action of the muscles ceased after this first impulse, the body would arrive in the second instant at p, where dp = o o, but at the point d the centre of gravity receives two new impulses, one d m from the extensor of the leg, and another d n by the extensor of the trochanter ; the first is in a direction perpendicular to d c', the second perpendicular to d d', the former being combined with the motion d p, which is that of the centre of gravity ; in the second instant there arises a second resultant d </, which the body would pass through in the se- cond moment, if the action of the thigh did not take place, but this new force d n being combined with d q, produces the ultimate re- sultant d o", which the centre of gravity really passes through in the second moment, and the body takes the position a, b, c", d", e", d ,J", g". In the moment which follows, the centre of gravity would arrive by the second impulse at p', a distance equal d o", but the forces of the muscles continuing to act, one of them o" m" produced by the extensor of the leg, and always perpendicular to o" c", gives with the motion o" p' a resultant o" q', which being combined in its turn with a force o" n" pro- duced by the extensor of the trochanter in a direction perpendicular to o" d", gives a new ultimate resultant o" d", which the centre of gravity passes through in the third instant. If the distance from the point d" to the point b is greater than the length of the leg, it is evident that the body of the insect will be elevated during the third instant, and the muscles being no longer able to produce any new impulses, be- cause the foot no longer furnishes them with points of support, the centre of gravity will in the succeeding intervals of time pass over spaces equal to o" d". In this demonstration we have only consi- dered two forces as acting to produce the leap, but there are others which influence the motion of the body as above mentioned, the effect of which we must here notice. By the extension of the hip on the thigh, the body which we have sup- posed not moveable on the hip would be flexed forwards from its horizontal position; but this is corrected by the motion of the body on the hip and by that of the leg on the tarsus. The extensor muscle of the tarsus opens the angle a b c, and tends to lower the extremity a of the tarsus ; but since that is supported the leg b c is moved and flexed upwards, giving to the centre of gravity a motion forwards and downwards, per- pendicularly to the radius b o. This new force being combined with o d, produces in the first instant a resultant more inclined forwards than o d. This oblique direction is afterwards cor- rected by the motion of the body on the hip. In short, if the body were only subject to the forces of the muscles of the tarsus, the leg, and the thigh, it would take a direction moie oblique than J" g'; but by the motion of the body on the hip, the centre of gravity receives a new impulse backwards and downwards per- pendicular to eo, and this new force combined with d o" gives a resultant more vertical, and as it acts in an oblique direction downwards, it diminishes necessarily the velocity of the leap; but the body thereby regains its hori- zontal position. The other legs also contri- bute to the elevation of the body in leaping, but their action must be very feeble, because these limbs seldom present a greater size or force in leaping insects than in other species. The middle pair of legs being always directed outwards and backwards, urge the body up- wards and forwards. The anterior pair, on the contrary, being placed greatly in advance of the centre of gravity, and directed opposite to the others, move it upwards and back- wards; these limbs, however, being compara- tively very feeble, can produce but little effect on the direction which the body would take were it only impelled by the two hinder pairs. In almost all the perfect insects the legs are the instruments of leaping, but the Elater is capable of jumping whilst on its back, in or- der to recover its normal position, which owing to its figure it could not otherwise effect. For this purpose, a mechanism not generally found in other insects is provided ; the pro-sternum is prolonged backwards, and terminates in a strong conical spine, which in a state of repose is lodged in a grooved cavity situated in the meso-sternum. The insect having been turned on its back, is observed to curve the body forcibly backwards; during this movement the spine of the sternum is drawn out of its sheath, and rests upon the edge of it, and the bases of the elytra are elevated above the plane of position. The flexor muscles, situated on the inferior aspect of the body, next contract, by which the spine is forcibly piessed against the edge of its sheath; the sternum is then suddenly relaxed, the spine darts into its sheath with great velocity, the head and thorax fly up, and the base of the elytra descends upon the supporting surface with such force that the insect by the reaction is propelled upwards to the height of one or two inches, during which the animal turns over upon its legs. In order to understand more clearly how this takes place, let a b (Jig. 268) be the axis of the body; o its centre of gravity; x the articu- Fig. 268.