322 MARSUPIALIA. ha6 begun to be formed. Qy.—Will the fetus seize the larger nipple as the readiest, or be directed to another more proportionate to the size of its mouth ? " Oct. 4th.—38th day. The keeper has observed the female putting her nose into the pouch, and licking the entry. She was exa- mined at six in the evening ; there was a slight increase of the brown secretion; the nipple formerly in use has diminished one-third in size ; the other nipples indicate no appearance of approaching parturition. " Oct. 5th.—39th day. The keeper exa- mined the pouch at seven this morning, and found there the young one attached to a nipple. On being made acquainted with this fact I re- paired to the Zoological Gardens, and examined the pouch. The new-born kangaroo (figAAO) was attached to the left superior nipple (Jig. 140, a), to the point of which it adhered pretty Fig. 140. New-born foetus and left nipples, Macropus major. firmly. It measured one inch from the mouth to the root of the tail, was quite naked, and co- vered by a thin semitransparent vascular integu- ment; the place of attachment of the umbilical chord was obscurely indicated by a longitudinal linear cicatrix. The fore-legs were longer and stronger than the hind ones, and the digits were provided with claws ; the toes were developed on the hind legs ; the body was bent forward ; and the short tail tucked in between the hind legs. This little animal breathed strongly, but slowly ; no direct act of sucking could be perceived. Such, after a gestation of thirty- eight days, is the condition of the new-born young of a species of Kangaroo, of which the adult, when standing erect on his hind feet and tail, can reach to the height of seven feet. The birth having taken place in the night, the mode of transference of the young to the pouch and nipple was not observed. The hypothesis of an internal passage from the uterus to the pouch — countenanced by some imperfect anatomical observations on the course of the round ligament to the abdominal ring, and the continuation thence of the cre- master to the posterior part of the mammary gland, together with the primitive inverted condition of the nipple—is wholly refuted by more exact observations of the conditions of these parts. I was chagrined at the loss of so favourable an opportunity of determining, ex visu, this interesting part of the problem ; for it had been my intention, if the symptoms of approaching pregnancy had been more marked, to have established a night as well as day-watch over the female; but by placing perhaps too much reliance on the observations on the preg- nant kangaroo recorded in the 9th volume of the Annates des Sciences, in which the duration of four months is assigned to the uterine gesta- tion of this species, 1 had not anticipated so speedy a termination of that process as resulted from my experiment. In order, however, to remedy, as far as might be, this omission, it occurred to me that if the young kangaroo were detached from the nipple and deposited at the bottom of the pouch, any actions of the parent, by which its original transference from the uterus to the nipple had been aided or effected, might be instinctively repeated, and thus an insight be gained into their nature. As, therefore, the experiments of Messrs. Morgan and Collie seemed to show that this might be done without necessarily causing the death of the young one, I performed the experiment with the sanction and assistance of Mr. Bennett, then Secretary of the Zoological Society. " Oct. 9th.—I examined the pouch of the female, and found the young one, now four days old, evidently grown, and respiring vigo- rously ; it adhered more firmly to the nipple than was expected, requiring a continued gentle pressure to detach it: when that took place, a minute drop of whitish fluid, a kind of serous milk, was expressed from the nipple. No blood followed, nor anything to indicate a solution of organic continuity; the extremity of the nipple was small, not swollen as in Mr. Collie's case. The young one moved its extre- mities vigorously. It was deposited at the bot- tom of the pouch, and the mother was left and then carefully watched. Soon after this was done she seemed uneasy, was often scratching the exterior of the pouch, and every now and then dilated the cavity with her two fore- paws, grasping the sides of the aperture, and pulling them in contrary directions, just as in drawing open a bag; she then inserted her muzzle pretty deeply into the pouch, moving her head about as if to lick off something from the interior, or perhaps to move the little one. She kept her nose in the pouch sometimes for half-a-minute. I never observed her to put her fore-legs, or either of them, in the pouch ; they were always occupied in keeping open the mouth of the pouch, while she was at work with her mouth within it. She generally con- cluded by licking the mouth of the pouch, and occasionally she stooped down to lick the cloaca, which she could reach with ease. When she scratched the outside of the pouch it seemed as if to push up something that was in- side towards the aperture. These actions she repeated at short intervals for about an hour; she then lay down and appeared quiet. She had also lain down in the intervals of the above operation, but during that time never meddled with the pouch ; when stimulated to do so by some uneasy sensation, she always rose upon her hind feet, and then inserted her muzzle alternately into the pouch and vulva. Observing the freedom with which she could reach both these parts, I was led to believe that the mode of removal of the young from the vulva to the