666 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. The Encephalon.) been studied, the means of instituting such inquiries on a large scale have been altogether wanting. But it may be confidently expected that the many well-educated men who now visit distant climes, accompanying our fleets and armies, will not let slip the opportunities which they possess, without contributing some- what to the solution of so interesting a question. Many years ago it was thought that the brain of the coloured races possessed a greater quan- tity of colouring matter than that of the white, and this opinion appears to have originated with J. F. Meckel, who asserted that the grey sub- stance was of a darker hue than in the Euro- pean brain, and also that the medullary sub- stance was not so white, but yellowish grey or light-brown.* Walter, Camper, Bonn, Soem- mering, have, however, amply refuted this state- ment. Walter denied more particularly that part of the assertion which attributed a darker colour to the white substance. He states that it is just as white as in the European, but that the cortical substance is darker, that is, of a greyish brown colour, which he attributed to the darker colour of the blood in the Negro.f Soemmering, with a view to decide the ques- tion, dissected three perfectly fresh Negro brains in the presence of other anatomists, Professors Weichmann, Schumlanski of Petersburg!), and Billman of Cassel, taking the very proper pre- caution to compare on the spot the fresh brain of an European. The result was that he could not discover either the cineritious or medullary substance to be in the least darker than in Europeans; he even thought that the colour was rather paler in the African than in the European brain .J It is true that Caldani and Rudolphi appear to have considered the grey substance darker in the Negro than in the European, the former having examined the brains of two Negroes, and the latter that of a Mulatto. But little dependence is to be placed on statements founded upon such a limited number of ob- servations, and moreover it is well known that the aspect of the grey substance varies in dif- ferent individuals according to the quantity of blood which it may contain. Tiedemann affirms that the brain of the Negro does not present any material difference from that of other nations. Judging by Cam- per's rule, founded upon the measurement of the facial angle, which is smaller in the Negro than the European, it had been supposed that the latter was smaller. The results of a few cases in which the Negro brain was weighed do not confirm this statement. The brain of a Negro boy according to Soemmering weighed 2 lbs. 10 oz. 3 dr. avoirdupois, or 3 lbs. 6 oz. * De la diversite de couleur dans la substance medullaire de Negres, Hist, de l'Acad. de Berlin, 1753. Du Cerveau des Negres, ibid. 1757, quoted in Tiedemann's paper. t Epistola Anatomica ad W. Hunterum de venis oculi. Berolin. 1778. t Vom Korperlicben Unterschied des Negers, p. 18. 6 dr. troy. The brain of a tall handsome Negro, about twenty years of age, weighed 2 lbs. 13 oz. 4 dr. avoidupois, or 3 lbs. 9 oz. 4 dr. troy weight. A Negro's brain, examined by Sir Astley Cooper, weighed 3 lbs. 1 oz. or 49 oz. and that of a young Negro, aged twenty-five, short and thin, examined by Tiedemann him- self, weighed 2 lbs. 3 oz. 2 dr., having been a short time kept in alcohol. Tiedemann has also contrasted the capacity of the Negro skull with those of men of the Caucasian, Mongolian, American, and Malayan races. This was done by first weighing the skull with or without the lower jaw-bone. Then the skull was weighed, having been filled with dry millet seed through the foramen mag- num. Lastly, by deducting the weight of the empty skull from that of the filled one, the capacity of the cranial cavity was obtained. In the Ethiopian race, the range of capacity was found to be, in male skulls from 54 oz. 2 dr. 33 gr. to 31 oz. 5 dr. 16 gr. troy, in thirty- eight observations, and in female skulls from 31 oz. 4 dr. to 24 oz. 7 dr. 39 gr. in three ob- servations. In the Caucasian race, the capacity of male skulls of European nations was found to range between 57 oz. 3 dr. 56 gr. to 32 oz. 6 dr., in seventy-seven observations, and that of male skulls of Asiatic nations from 41 oz. 5 dr. 6 gr. to 27 oz. 6 dr. 30 gr. (a Hindoo Brahmin's head), in twenty-four observations. The male skulls of the Mongolian race ex- hibited a capacity from 49 oz. 1 dr. 22 gr. to 25 oz. 0 dr. 18 gr. (a native of Nootka Sound), in eighteen observations. In the American race the capacity of the male skulls ranged between 59 oz and 26 oz. 1 dr. 44 gr. (a Toway Indian), in twenty-four observations. And in the Malayan race it ranged from 49 oz. 1 dr. 45 gr. to 30 oz. 5 dr. in thirty- eight observations, and in five female skulls from 37 oz. 5 dr. to 19 oz. 2 dr. 49 gr. (a Lascar woman). These researches certainly give no counte- nance to the doctrine which assigns the lowest place, in the chain of human varieties, to the Negro as regards cerebral developement. So far is this from being the case, that the Ethio- pian race differs to a very trifling degree from the European; and, indeed, the examples of skulls of the smallest capacity are found among Asiatic natives (Hindoos) and Americans. The following conclusions are derived by Tiedemann from his comparison of the Negro brain with that of other races. " 1. The brain of a Negro is upon the whole quite as large as that of the European and other human races. " 2. The nerves of the Negro, relatively to the size of the brain, are not thicker than those of Europeans, as Soemmering and his followers have said. " 3. The outward form of the spinal cord, me- dulla oblongata, the cerebellum and cerebrum of the Negro show no important difference from that of the European. " 4. The Negro brain does not resemble that of