297 MARSUPIALIA. veloped, and the conjunctiva covering its free margin is stained black. In the Kangaroo I found the dark pigment on both the inside and outside of the choroid, and the ciliary processes very well developed. The lens is proportionally large. In the dead Kangaroo the radiated muscle of the iris is much contracted, and the pupil widely open. Beneath the upper eyelid in the Kangaroo there is a cartilaginous ridge having the con- junctiva reflected over it. Organ of taste.—The tongue is well deve- loped and freely moveable in all the .\larsu- pialia, and the epithelium covering the simple papillae of its dorsum is never condensed into spines. In the carnivorous species, as the Dasyuri, the conical papillae are minute and soft, but directed backwards so as to give a slight roughness to the tongue when stroked in the opposite direction. Under a lens they appear like fine shagreen. Near the base of the tongue in Dasyurus viverrinus there are three fossulate papillae, in triangle, with the apex towards the epiglottis. There is a small h/tta beneath the tip of the tongue. In the Perameles, besides the minute and generally diffused simple papillae, there are others of larger size, placed at distances of nearly a line apart, and raised about a third of a line above the surface of the dorsum. The fossulate or glandular papillae correspond in number and arrangement with those of the Dasyures, but the entire tongue is relatively longer and more slender, especially in Per. lagutis. In some species of Opossum, as Didclphys Philander, the margin of the tongue is fringed with a series of fine long papillae. In the Phalangers there is a thickening at the edge of the fraenum linguae, but no true lytta. The dorsal papillae resemble those of the Dasyures, but are somewhat more obtuse. In the Kangaroo there is a callous ridge along the middle of the under surface of the free extremity of the tongue, and a corresponding furrow along the dorsum ; the latter is common to all the Marsupials. In the Wombat and Koala the dorsum of the tongue rises some- what abruptly from a furrow surrounding its base; its form is narrow, moderately deep, diminishing in this respect to the tip, which is rounded. In both the Kangaroo and Koala there is a single large fossulate papilla near the base of the tongue. The palate is sculptured in most Marsupials with transverse ridges. These are most nume- rous in the Bandicoots, being fourteen in the Perameles nasuta, and are slisjhtly curved for- wards. The roughness thus produced must aid the tongue in retaining small insects. Digestive System. Month.—The various modes of locomotion, resulting from the different modifications of the osseous and muscular systems observable in the several families of Marsupialia, relate to the acquisition of as various kinds of alimentary substances, which necessarily require for their assimilation as many adaptations of the diges- tive organs. Food,—means of obtaining it,—instruments for preparing and mechanically dividing it,— cavities, canals and glands for chemically reducing and animalizing it,—form a closely connected chain of relationships and interde- pendencies. The usual sequence of anatomical description has here been followed in com- mencing with the consideration of the passive and active organs whose office it is to carry the stomach to the food and the food to the mouth, and we have now to describe the preparatory mechanical instruments in digestion, and the modifications and appendages of the alimentary canal. Thejaws of theMarsupialiaarecoveredby well- developed fleshy lips ; the upper lip is partially cleft in the Kangaroos, as in some of the Ro- dents ; the muzzle is clad with hair in the Great Kangaroo and a few other species of Macropus, but in other Marsupialia it is naked and generally red from the vascularity of the integument. The masticatory muscles of the jaws consist in the Marsupial, as in other Mammalia, of the temporal, the masseter, the external and in- ternal pterygoids, and the digastricus. They are chiefly remarkable for the large proportional size of the masseter and internal pterygoid; the great developement of the latter muscle is con- stant in all the Marsupials, and is the condi- tion of the peculiarly large and inflected angle of the lower jaw. The relative size of the masseter, as compared with the temporal mus- cle is greater in the herbivorous than in the carnivorous species, but this difference is much less in the Marsupial than in the cor- responding placental genera. The extent of origin of the temporal muscle is indicated by the various conditions of the temporal and pa- rietal crests ; the inner surface of the zygomatic arch always affords origin to a portion of the fibres of this muscle, and in some species, as in the Koala, to all that portion of it which is inserted into the external fossa of the coronoid process and ascending ramus of the jaw, the fibres from the temporal and parietal bones being implanted on the inner side of the coro- noid process. The masseter takes its origin by a strong band of tendinous and carneous fibres from the inferior and anterior part of the zy- goma ; the muscle expands as it is directed backwards, and is inserted into the ridge which bounds the external temporal fossa of the as- cending ramus, and into the outer side of the inflected angle of the outer jaw. The external pterygoid takes its origin from the temporal plate of the sphenoid and the base of the pterygoid plate anterior to the sphenoidal bulla; the fibres converge to be implanted into the inner projecting side of the condyle of the jaw. The internal pterygoid arises from the outer depression of the longitudi- nally extended pterygoid plate already men- tioned as characterizing the cranial structure of the Marsupials, and is implanted along the inner surface of the inflected angle of the jaw. The digastricus arises from the ex-occipital process; its fibres expand, and are inserted into the lower margin of the maxillary ramus, anterior to the commencement of the inflected