367 MONOTREMATA. cava by a single large vein. The lower jaw articulates with the base of the zygomatic, and not with the tympanic element of the temporal bone, and the cranium articulates by two dis- tinct condyles with the atlas. The quadrupeds which combine these essen- tial mammalian characters with the oviparous modifications above-mentioned are peculiar to Australia and Van Dieman's Land; they form three well-marked species, referable to two distinct genera. One of these genera, called Echidna by Cuvier, is characterized by an elongated slender muzzle, terminated by a small mouth, and containing a long and exten- sible tongue like that of the Ant-eaters. The jaws are edentulous, but the palate is provided with many rows of small, sharp, hard, epidermal spines, which are directed backwards, and the base of the tongue is similarly armed. The feet are short, but remarkably broad and strong, and are each provided with five very long and strong claws. The upper part and sides of the body are defended by spines similar to but larger than those of the hedge-hog. The tail is very short. The genus Echidna contains two species, one (Ech. hy&trix) characterized by a more complete armour of spines, with a scantier admixture of darker coloured hair; the other CEch. setosa), by being clothed with a greater proportion of lighter coloured hair, which half conceals the spines. These characters are constant in both sexes, and as well marked in the mature as in the young individuals. Both species of Echidna are terrestrial and fossorial; they feed almost exclusively on ants, and abound in certain districts of both Australia and Tasmania, playing there the same part in the economy of Nature which is assigned to the Pangolins (Manis) in Asia and Africa, and to the Ant-eaters (Myrmecophaga) in South America. The Ornithorhynchus—the second genus of the Monotrematous order—is an aquatic Insec- tivore,* but combines water-snails, worms, and other small Invertebrata with the insects that constitute the staple article of its food. These it obtains, not by its tongue, which is short and inextensible, but by its lips, which are largely developed, and supported by singularly modified intermaxillary and lower maxillary bones; the whole mouth presenting a close resemblance to the broad and flattened beak of a duck. The similarity is increased by the lateral lamellae of the lower jaw; but both jaws are provided with four horny teeth ; the anterior one on each side, both above and below, is long, narrow, and trenchant; the posterior one is broad, flat, and shaped like a molar tooth. The feet are short, broad, armed each with five claws, but less robust than in the Echidna. The fore feet have a web, which * See No. 541, B. Physiological Series, Museum Royal College of Surgeons, London. " Debris of Insects belonging to a genus of the Nauccridce, which were found in the cheek-pouches of the Ornithorhynchus paradoxus." Mr. Bennett (Zool. Trans. 1834, p. 239) found in the cheek-pouches of the Ornithorhynchus mud and gravel, with frag- ments of insects and shell-fish. not only unites and fills the interspaces of the toes, but extends beyond the extremities of the claws; the web of the hind foot terminates at the base of the claws. With these swimming- feet is associated a strong, broad, horizontally flattened tail, which completes the organic locomotive machinery for the aquatic existence of an air-breathing and warm-blooded quadru- ped. The body is clothed with a dense coat of hair, which consists of a fine fur, intermixed with long, stiff, flattened, and sharp-pointed hairs, that seem to represent the spines of the Echidna. Only one species of Ornithorhynchus is as yet satisfactorily defined ; it occurs in the fresh-water rivers, ponds, and lakes of Australia and Van Dieman's Land. As external ears and large eyes would be ill suited to the habits either of a burrowing or a swimming animal, both genera of Monotremes are characterized by the absence of the auricle and the small size of the visual organs. The male in both genera bears a horny pointed spur upon the heel, which is perforated, and trans- mits into the wound it inflicts the secretion of a peculiar gland. This singular repetition of an offensive mechanism, which, prior to the discovery of the monotrematous mammals, was known only in certain insects and serpents, completes the anomalous combinations in the external characters of the present order. Echidna hy&trix and Ornithorhynchus para- doxus were first described and figured by Dr. Shaw; the former as early as the year 1792 in the third volume of the Naturalists' Miscellany, under the denomination of Myrmecophaga acu- leuta; the latter in the tenth volume of the same work in the year 1799, by the name of Platypus anatinus. In the following year this more extraordinary animal received a further description, together with its present zoological denomination from Professor Blumenbach, in " Voigt's Magazin fur den neuesten Zustand der Naturkunde, Bd. ii, 1800;" and soon after Sir Everard Home gave an account of some of its ana- tomical peculiarities, which appeared in the Philosophical Transactions for the year 1800. As these observations, however, were limited to the head and beak, they rather tended to perplex than guide the naturalist in assigning the position of the animal in the natural system. Professor Blumenbach, in his Elements of Natural History, placed the Ornithorhynchus paradoxus among the Palmata of his mamma- logical system, between the otter and the walruss ; while Dr. Shaw more naturally re- ferred it to the Bruta of Linnaeus; but being limited to such points of comparison as the exter- nal form alone presented, he merely discerned the affinities of the Platypus and the Echidna to the Myrmecophaga. The real value and extent of these affinities could only be deter- mined by a deeper insight into their respective organizations. The important memoirs on the anatomical structure of both these animals read before the Royal Society by Sir Everard Home, and published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1802, drew the attention of the scientific