31 IRRITABILITY. tarum intestina sunt, qua; et evulsa pergunt se coutrahere et frigida demum; etiam his tena- cius cor, si omnia conputaveris, in pullo etiam evidentissime et in frigidis animalibus. * The observations of Nysten are more exten- sive, and his inferences were deduced from expe- riments made upon the human subject imme- diately after decapitation. They are as follow : " 1. La contractihtc du ventricule aortique ttait eteinte 49 minutes apres la mort; " 2. L'aorte n'a offert aucun mouvement de contraction; " 3. Cinquante-six minutes apres la mort, la contractility de I'estomac, des intestins et de la vessie ctait eteinte ; mais ces organes n'ont pu ctre soumis assez promptement au gal van- isrne pour connaitre la duree relative de leur force contractile ; " 4. Le ventricule pulmonaire perdit sa con- taetilite une heure 58 minutes apres la mort; " 5. Deux heures 2 minutes apres la mort, le diaphragme ne se contractait plus; les mus- cles de l'appareil locomoteur perdirent succes- sivement leur contractility a mesure que le contact de l'air agissait sur eux ; mais ceux qui ne furent exposes a l'air que tard, par exemple au bout d'environ 4 heures, ne cesscrent de se mouvoirque 4 heures 15 minutes apres la mort; " 6. Les oreilletes du coeur, qui ctaient exposces a l'air depuis le commencement de ['experience, ne cesserent de se contracter que 4 heures 40 minutes apres la mort."f But if there be a difference in the irritability of different organs in the same animal, there is a still greater difference in the different animals themselves of the zoological scale. It maybe stated in general terms, that the degree of the irritability in the different parts of the animal series, as tested by galvanism, is inversely as the quantity of the respiration; so that in the reptile tribes, in which the respiration is exceed- ingly low, the irritability of the muscular fibre is such as to afford a delicate test of galvanism ; and in birds, in which the respiration is at its maximum, the irritability exists in its lowest degree. This important subject deserves the fullest development. We shall here, therefore, insert some observations which were read to the Royal Society, and published in the Philoso- phical Transactions in 1832. The due actions of life, in any part of the zoological series, appear to depend upon the due ratio between the quantity of atmospheric change induced by the respiration, and the degree of irritability of the heart: if either be unduly augmented, a destructive state of the functions is induced ; if either be unduly di- minished, the vital functions languish, and eventually cease. If the bird possessed the degree of irritability of the reptile tribes, or the latter the quantity of respiration of the foi -mer, the animal frnme would soon wear out. If, on the contrary, the bird were reduced to the quantity of respiration appropriate to the * Haller. Prim;E Linc.e, 1767, p. 207. t Rccherehcs do Physiologic, 1811, p. 312. reptile, or the latter to the degree of irritability which obtains in the former, the functions of life would speedily become extinct. Various deviations from the usual proportion between the respiration and the irritability, however, occur, but there is an immediate tendency to restore that proportion ; increased stimulus ex- hausts or lowers the degree of irritability, whilst diminished stimulus allows of its aug- mentation. The alternations between activity and sleep afford illustrations of these facts. Changes in anatomical form in the animal kingdom present other illustrations of the law of the inverse proportion of the respiration and irritability. The egg, the foetus, the tad- pole, the larva, &c. are respectively animals of lower respiration, and of higher irritability, than the same animals in their mature and per- fect state. Changes in physiological condition also illustrate the same law. The conditions of lethargy, and of torpor, present examples of lower respiration, and of higher irritability, than the state of activity. It may be remarked that whilst changes in anatomical form are always from lower to higher conditions of existence, changes in the phy- siological condition are invariably from higher to lower. These views are further illustrated by a re- ference to the quantity of stimulus and the degree of irritability of each of the parts and organs of the animal system. The oxygen of the atmospheric air is the more immediate and essential stimulus of this organ. Taken up in respiration, it is brought into contact with the heart, by means of the blood, which may be considered as the carrier of this stimulus, as it is of temperature and nutriment, to the various parts of the system. As oxygen is the principal stimulus, the heart is the prin- cipal organ of irritability, in all the verte- brated animals; if the contact of oxygen be interrupted, all perish in a greater or less pe- riod of time. The extraordinary differences which exist in animals which occupy different stations in the zoological scale, have long excited the atten- tion of naturalists. Nor have the differences which obtain in the various ages and states of its existence, in the same animal, escaped the attention of the physiologist. A similar re- mark applies to that singular state of existence and of the functions of life, designated hyber- nation. But it appears to me that a sufficiently comprehensive view has not been taken of the subject, and that many facts, with their mul- titudinous relations, still require to be deter- mined. I. Of the pneumatometer. — The principal of these facts is that of the quantity of respi- ration. This is greater in proportion as the animal occupies a higher station in the zoolo- gical scale, being, among the vertebrated animals, greatest of all in birds, and lowest in fishes; the mammalia, the reptiles, and the amphibia occupy intermediate stations. The quantity of respiration is also remarkably low in the very young of certain birds which are