NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. Abnormal Anatomy.) 720a 2 z ** in width. The white substance of the brain has increased in density, and in the transverse section several vessels are cut across, the sec- tion of which occasions numerous bloody points upon the surface of the centrum ovale. The corpora striata, optic thalami, pons, and medulla oblongata are all obviously shrunk and firm in consistence. Iu several instances of persons long bed- ridden, 1 have noticed a shrunk state of the cerebellum, with or without atrophy of the cerebrum. The layers of white matter in the cerebellar laminae look particularly small; and in the section the white layer seems to shrink in within the fold of grey matter in which it is involved. As a constant accompaniment of the wasted brain, we find a more or less opaque condition of the arachnoid membrane, with considerably enlarged Pacchionian bodies. The ventricles of the brain, too, are generally wide and con- tain a good deal of fluid. There is also very frequently a diseased state of arteries, atheroma- tous or ossific deposits being scattered freely amongst those, which form the circle of Willis, and their principal branches. Atrophy of particular parts of the brain is of not unfrequent occurrence, either in cases where particular nerves are atrophied, as the optic nerve, inducing atrophy of the opposite optic tract or of that of the same side, and of the quadrigemmal bodies on the side of the wasted tract; or where from previous disease of a por- tion of the brain the remainder of that part has wasted—as wasting of the corpus striatum from the previous existence of a small clot in it, or of a red softening. Softening. ■— One of the most common changes of structure in the brain is softening. This is of two kinds, namely, white softening, or that without discoloration, and red softening, or that with discoloration. White softening.—The anatomical characters of the true white softening may be thus de- scribed. The diseased portion has diminished considerably in its consistence ; if it be gently rubbed with the edge of a knife it becomes obviously disturbed by an amount of friction which would produce no change upon the sur- face of a healthy brain ; a stream of water di- rected upon it, even with slight force, is suffi- cient to break it up and separate as well as rupture its constituent fibres, while a similar stream directed against a neighbouring healthy portion produces little or no effect upon it. When examined by the microscope, its consti- tuent fibres appear to have undergone no change but that of consistence; they exhibit vari- cosities, more numerous than usual, nor can any products of inflammation, or any other ab- normal material, be detected among them. The bloodvessels are empty and pale. The colour is very commonly that of cream, sometimes a little more yellow. This form of softening occurs chiefly in old persons, in whom the arteries of the brain have been more or less ossified, or in whom the vessels leading to the seat of softening have been so diseased as materially to interrupt or VOL. III. diminish the quantity of blood flowing to the part. It has occurred after ligature of the common carotid artery, as must be inferred from the numerous cases of hemiplegic para- lysis after this operation, on the side opposite to that of the tied artery; and I have myself re- corded a remarkable example in which it was produced throughout nearly the whole hemi- sphere of the brain by the plugging of the com- mon carotid artery by a dissecting aneurism.* Any condition of the arteries of the brain, or of the general system, which may impair the nutrition of the brain, is favourable to the pro- duction of this form of softening. I have seen instances of it after inveterate contamination of the system by lead, in house-painters, who have had epileptic seizures before death, chemi- cal examination shewing that the nervous mat- ter of the brain contained lead in considerable quantity. It also occurs in persons dead with cerebral symptoms, epilepsy, coma, &c, in Brisht's disease of the kidneys. This softening frequently surrounds apoplec- tic clots, and in such cases is most probably the precursor of the apoplectic effusion. Fre- quently small apoplexies are found throughout a patch of softening of this kind, and sometimes the effused blood is infiltrated throughout the softened part to a great extent, and puts on an appearance which has been likened by Rostan and many others to one of the ecchymosed spots which are seen in scurvy. A colourless softening is found in hydroce- phaloid brains. This is probably due to an arrest in the nutrition of the organ, in conse- quence of which that condition of it which be- longs to infancy (when a much larger quantity of water enters into its composition than in the later periods of life, and when tiie brain-sub- stance is naturally very soft) becomes unduly developed, and water accumulates in the sub- stance as well as in the cavities of the brain. The softening under these circumstances is generally seen most distinctly in the thin lamellar portions of the brain, such as the corpus cal- losum, the fornix, the Vieussenian valve, the anterior and middle commissures, the septum lucidum. These parts are so soft that unless the greatest, care and gentleness are used in the removal of the brain they give way. The softening is not limited to these parts, although greatest in them; it is general throughout the brain. When, however, the hydrocephalic state has been very chronic, the substance of the hemispheres becomes condensed by the pressure from within the ventricles, and the water having thus been pressed out of it, it appears of a natural consistence, or even more dense than natural. In all the cases of general paralysis of the insane which I have examined, the consistence of the brain generally has been considerably less than natural. There have also been marks of chronic disease of the arachnoid in various patches of opacity, which I am disposed to view rather as a deposit from an abnormal blood than as the result of what is called * Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xxvii.