630 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. The Meninges.) In front of the dura mater and situate between the outer edge of the posterior common liga- ment of the vertebra and the pedicles, we find tv\o remarkable venous sinuses which extend the whole length of the vertebral column, from the occipital foramen to the sacral region (Jig. 360). Fig. 360. terior common ligament. These cross branches present the same characters as the sinuses them- selves, being of variable calibre, and presenting the greatest degree of dilatation at their middle. At this point these branches receive veins which emerge from the spongy texture of the bodies of the vertebra (basi-vertebral veins of Breschet) (fig. 361, d). The vertebral sinuses diminish in Fig. 361. sinuses viewed from before. (After Breschet.) The anterior part of the basis cranii and the face have been removed, as also the bodies of the vertebrae. /, lateral sinus descending to form its junction with the jugular vein ; c, cavernous sinus ; v, ver- tebral artery, the longitudinal sinuses with their transverse connecting veins, lying immediately be- hind the bodies of the vertebrae. The interior petrosal and the cavernous sinuses appear like con- tinuations of them within the cranium, and the transverse and circular sinuses are analogous to the transverse spinal branches. These veins are loosely covered by a thin pro- cess, which is prolonged from each margin of the posterior common ligament, and which is sufficiently transparent to allow them to be seen through it without removing it. They have been known since the time of Fallopius, and were described by Willis as the longitudinal spinal sinuses. In calibre they present many inequalities, being dilated at one part and con- stricted at another, according to the number and size of the vessels which communicate with them. The sinuses of opposite sides run parallel to each other and communicate by cross branches, which pass between the posterior sur- face of the body of each vertebra and the pos- Basi-vertebral veins, converging from the spongy struc- ture of the body of the vertebra. size at the highest part of the vertebral canal, and passing through the anterior condyloid foramina, communicate with the internal jugular veins. In the sacral region they diminish considerably likewise, and are lost in becoming continuous with the lateral sacral veins and other small veins in that region; and they communicate with the deep and superficial vertebral veins in the neck, with the intercostal veins in the back, and with the lumbar ones in the loins. They evidently differ from the sinuses of the cranial dura mater in not being enclosed between two layers of fibrous membrane as those vessels are. Bloodvessels of the cranial dura mater.— The bloodvessels of the cranial dura mater are much more numerous than those of the spinal, in consequence, no doubt, of that mem- brane performing the office of a periosteum to the cranial bones. The arteries are derived from numerous sources; in front from the ophthalmic and ethmoidal arteries, in the middle from the internal maxillary artery by the middle meningeal, which enters the cranium at the foramen spinosum, and by small branches from the internal carotid which have been called inferior meningeal arteries. Posteriorly the vertebral, the occipital, and the ascending pharyngeal supply branches which go by the name of posterior meningeal arteries. The veins of the dura mater are formed simi- larly to those in other parts, being derived from radicles which take their rise in the membrane itself as well as from the osseous walls of the cranium, from the diploic veins of those bones. (See BoNE,/gs. 187, 188, vol. i.) All of them, with the occasional exception of one or two which accompany the middle meningeal artery and pass out at the foramen spinosum, pour their blood into the great venous canals en- closed between the laminae of the dura mater, which are called Sinuses.