MOTION. fingers on the anterior extremity, and three thumbs opposite to two fingers on the posterior. Many of the climbing Lacertine Sauria have very elongated and flexible fingers, which give them great power of prehension and rapidity of motion, so that they are enabled to climb' ra- pidly up the vertical surface of walls and trunks of trees. Chelonia.—The Chelonian reptiles are en- closed in a ponderous case formed by the cara- pace and plastrum, which they are destined to drag along with them in all their movements. In the terrestrial species, the dorsal, costal, sternal, and pelvic osseous elements are all fixed, leaving the neck and caudal extremities of the body alone free. The legs, which are short and curved, act in consequence of their horizontal inclination at a great mechanical disadvantage, rendering the progression of the Chelonia proverbially slow. The humerus is bent, and in pronation is locked against the plastrum ; the latter tends to assist it in sup- porting the animal. The same body also pre- vents the femur from exercising any great degree of flexion, but allows it more freedom of action in extension; from the relative position of the cotyloid articulation and the absence of that impediment in the direction of extension, the hinder extremities give altogether a more effective impulse in walking. The length of the arm and fore-arm equals that of the thigh and leg. In theTestudo elephantopus, the femur mea- sures five inches, the tibia five, the humerus six, the radius four; then as 5 + 5 = 6 + 4, the sum of the lengths of the anterior and posterior extremities is equal. The feet and hands of the Turtle are furnished with a mem- branous expansion between the toes and fin- gers, which enables them to act as fins. The anterior extremities in this species are much more developed than the posterior. The body is remarkably flattened and depressed so as to present the smallest amount of re- sistance in cleaving the water in quest of their vegetable food. In the Emydes, or fresh- water Chelonia, the feet are palmated, by which means they are enabled to move with greater facility and expedition on soft and yield- ing surfaces, such as muddy banks and rivers, as well as to swim in pursuit of their prey in the water. The Chelonia are re- markable for the great transverse extension of the trunk compared with their length; they differ in their mode of progression fiom the Ophidian reptiles in having legs, and from the Saurians in the immobility of the ribs. The Aquatic Chelonia are rendered of less specific gravity than their bulk would indicate, both by the spongy texture of their organs of support and by the great extent of their respiratory apparatus, which reduce their specific gravity to that of the medium in which they move, and admit of their sleeping motionless on the sur- face of the water. The structure of the arch-formed carapace and dense plastrum, and the more solid union of all the osseous elements surrounding the trunk of the Terrestrial Chelonia, enable them to resist the external pressure to which, from their partially burrowing habits, they are sub- jected, and also to endure the trampling of large quadrupeds. Birds.—The feathered tribe traverse the sur- face of the earth as digitigrade bipeds. In standing, the trunk is elevated and supported at various heights above the plane of position, by the legs through which its weight is transmitted to the ground. It is balanced and kept in equi- libno on an axis passing through the centres of the heads of the femurs perpendicularly to the plane of the mesial section. The inclination of the trunk lies between the vertical and horizontal planes ; but its angle of elevation depends on the position and weight of its various elements and appendages, such as the head, neck, and anterior extremities, which determine the distance of the centre of gravity to the cotyloid articulation. The ilio- femoral articulations being placed more for- wards in the ossa innominata than in quadru- peds, enables them to bring the centre of gravity within the base of support on their two feet with little elevation of the trunk. Several methods are employed by birds to alter the relative position of their centre of gravity in standing, namely, first, by curva- ture of the neck; secondly, by folding the wing on each side; thirdly, by the elevation or depression of the trunk above or below the horizontal plane in which the cotyloid joints are situated. All these different positions of the trunk and its appendages throw the centre of gravity backwards towards the vertical line passing through the base of support, which may also be changed and thrown forwards by bend- ing the joints of the legs. The areas of the bases of support vary in different orders of birds according to the num- ber, length, and direction of their toes. The action of the gracilis muscle, which enables birds to stand on one leg in repose, was de- monstrated by Borelli, and though his views were opposed by Vicq D'Azyr and Barthez, they have been confirmed by Monro, Cuvier, Muller, Iloget, and Owen. In walking slowly, the body rests a long time on both legs and a short time on one ; during the former period the motion of the trunk is retarded, but during the latter it is accelerated. In these movements, one leg is flexed, raised from the ground, and swung forwards to take a new position in advance, whilst the other supports the trunk and propels it for- wards; and as soon as the fool of the raised leg arrives in a position perpendicular to the head of the femur, the hind leg is lifted and repeats the like movements. The time during which the body is supported on one leg, in proportion to that when it is resting on both, depends on the celerity of progression. The time of the oscil- lation of the swinging leg is governed by the length of the leg and the arc through which it is suffered to oscillate.* In walking, the centre of gravity oscillates laterally ; this motion is * For further details on walking upon two legs see those on human progression, many of which are applicable to birds.