486 MUCOUS MEMBRANE. becomes necessary to guard against confound- ing such compound membranes with the simple mucous tissue, of which these and all other por- tions of the mucous system consist. Of the ultimate structure of the mucous system.—It has been already stated that the mucous tissue is essentially an uninterrupted membrane in which the other tissues of the animal are contained. A very cursory attempt will serve to shew how much more easily it admits of being separated and examined in certain situations rather than in others. This variety depends chiefly on the difference of its arrangementand connexions in different regions. In the testis and kidney, the capillary vascular rete, spread over its parenchymal surface, has no intimate attachment to it, and the appended areolar tissue is in very small quantity. In the testis especially, this latter may be said to be almost wanting as an investment to the individual tubules, being, as it were, disposed as a collective covering to the entire organ, sending partial septa into its interior, and bearing the name of Tunica Albuginea. In the kidney, a more intricate vascular rete in a great measure supplies the place of areolar tissue. Hence, in these viscera, the simple mucous element allows of being isolated with remarkable facility. In the liver, its isolation is almost impracticable, owing to its lying in the interstices of a capillary plexus that may be termed solid, from its being extended uniformly in every direction. The intricacy of the inter- lacement of the mucous and vascular elements in this organ is sufficient to explain the total ignorance that prevails concerning the mode of termination of the biliary ducts, and con- cerning their size, shape, and connexions in the lobules of the gland. In many other true glands, the mucous tissue may be submitted to examination without much difficulty; examples of which may be seen in the pancreas and salivary glands, with those allied to them, such as the duodenal glands of Brunner, the buccal, palatal, arytenoid, tracheal, &c.; and in the sudorific glands of the skin. In the compound membranes also, as that of the alimentary canal below the cardia, and the more highly developed parts of the skin, the mucous ele- ment may be generally distinguished from the tissues in connexion with it in a satisfactory manner. But in the plane expansions of the simple membrane which line the bony cavities of the nose and ear, its isolation and the demon- stration of its structure are far more difficult, for reasons which will be afterwards explained, and our knowledge of it here still rests partially on the ground of analogy. In the mucous tissue there are two structures that require to be separately described, viz. the basement membrane and the epithelium. The basement membrane is a simple homoge- neous expansion, transparent, colourless, and of extreme tenuity, situated on its parenchymal surface, and giving it shape and strength. This serves as a foundation on which the epithelium rests. The epithelium is a pavement composed of nucleated particles adhering together, and of various size, form, and number. The fol- lowing general observations on these elementary parts will receive illustration as we advance. Neither the one nor the other is peculiar to the mucous tissue in the sense either of being invariably present in it, or of not being found elsewhere. There are certain situations of the mucous system where no basement membrane can be detected, and others from which the epithelium is absent. Both, however, are never absent together. Aram, a structure apparently identical with the basement membrane is met with in numerous textures besides the mucous, and all internal cavities, whether serous, syno- vial, or vascular, or of anomalous kind, (as those of the thymus, and thyroid body) are lined by an epithelium. In the ensuing description these circum- stances will be enlarged upon, and the excep- tions and local peculiarities pointed out, as far as I have been able to ascertain them. At present, I would say that these two elements are generally present. The most interesting questions in animal physiology are involved in the determination of the nature and offices of these two elementary parts of the mucous tissue. The discovery of them is, however, too recent, and our knowledge of their history as yet too incomplete, to allow of any certain conclusions on the subject. Both present various modifications in different situations, the study of which is of great importance with reference to their function. It will now be our business to descend to a particular account of each. Of the basement membrane.—The basement membrane of the mucous tissue, as displayed in the kidney, is an extremely thin, transparent, and homogeneous lamina, simple and entire, without any aperture or appearance of structure (fig. 273, c). It forms the parenchymal wall of the uriniferous tubules; gives them their size, shape, and stability ; is in relation, on the one hand, with the vascular system of the organ, and on the other with the epithelial lining. It is simply in contact with the capillary plexus, which is fixed chiefly by their mu- tual interlacement; but the epithelium adheres to it by an organic union. When detached from the vascular rete which it traverses, and deprived of its epithelium, it readily wrinkles (fig. 273, r) ; and such is its tenuity, that it is sometimes only by the folds thus occasioned that it becomes visible at all. The epithelium readily separates from it after a slight macera- tion, and also in many diseased states of the organ, such as inflammation and Bright's dis- ease. Though this basement tissue is so deli- cate, its presence or absence in any fragment of a separate tubule may always be ascertained by the aspect of the marginal outline ; if this be linear and well defined, the basement mem- brane is present, but if irregular and broken, the epithelium only (fig. 273, a, b). It some- times happens that when the epithelium may seem to be altogether detached, the basement membrane retains, scattered evenly over its surface and at some distance apart, a number of roundish marks, of the size and aspect of the nuclei of epithelium particles. These are