MOTION. 401 1833, vol. ii. $ 531. ation caused by the advanced leg. allowed to accompany the movements of the legs without muscular effort. When the body is put in motion, the momentum generated re- quires an equal force in the opposite direction to stop it, for which purpose the trunk is thrown back; and this, with the resistance of the feet on the ground, will commonly suffice. VY hen, however, this is not the case, the motion must be arrested gradually, or, as it often happens when the plane of position is composed of ice, the leg goes on without the trunk, and the cen- tre of gravity comes to the ground. In walking, the trunk is also elevated and depressed at each step vertically, as well as oscillated in other directions By the assist- ance of a rod graduated into millimetres, which was carried at the head of the trochanter major by the ambulator, and viewed through a tele- scope, Weber was enabled to ascertain the amount of the elevation and depression of the trunk. He found that when the length of the steps treading on the whole sole of the foot measured 2.39 feet, the mean elevation and de- pression were 1.1 inches. The plane in which the rod vibrated, and the magnitude of the oscillations, did not appear to vary materially, whether the speed was accelerated or retarded. In walking on the ball of the great toe the mean elevation and depression of the trunk was 0.8 inch. Estimate ofthe forces employed in walking. The forces which we have to estimate in walk- ing are, first, that of the extension of the leg; secondly, the gravity of the body ; thirdly, the resistance which the body encounters in pro- gression. Of these, the first is that force which the leg exerts by its extension to bring it into a straight line, as if both of its extremities (viz. the head of the femur, and that part of the foot which is in contact with the ground)endeavoured to push each other away. The direction of this force depends on the position of the extremi- ties of the leg ; but whatever that direction may be, it is always resolvable, on the principle of the parallelogram of forces, into a vertical and a horizontal component. The vertical portion of the extension upwards is equal to the second force, or the gravity of the body acting vertically downwards ; in this case the centre of gravity remains at the same height above the plane of progression. The horizontal portion of the ex- tension produces an increased velocity in the horizontal direction, the magnitude of which depends on the position of the supporting leg. By means of these forces the body is propelled forwards. At the moment the body receives the impulse of extension it is accelerated until the third force, namely, the resistance,* augmenting continually with the velocity, is equal to that of the acceleration ; when these two forces neu- tralize each other, the body will move forwards with an uniform velocity. Hitherto the forces which influence walking * The principal resistance is occasioned by the advanced leg when it reaches the ground. Other resistances are the frictions of the joints, of the sole of the foot upon the earth, of the air, &c, but these are very trifling when compared with the retard- have been considered as if they were uniformly accelerating forces ; but though they are not strictly such, yet as they recur at the end of each step, the mean velocity of the body will remain the same as if they actually were so.* Let us assume a common point of application of the forces, and consider this as the centre of the body, or the point of separation between the trunk and the legs. The three forces may be re- presented (Jig. 250) by three straight lines meet- a ing at this point, thus : Let c be the centre of the body; draw ca in a vertical direction, c b in a horizontal, and c d in the direction of the prolongation of the leg on which the body is supported. These three lines will represent in magnitude and direction the forces which are in action during progression, if they be so taken that either of them equals the diagonal of the parallelogram formed by the other two, and will coincide in direction with that diagonal produced beyond c. Messrs. Weber do not consider those physiologists worth refuting who state that the forces which propel the body for- wards exceed those that drive it back, for in that case, from the continued preponderance of force in one direction, there would result, not an uniform, but a continually increasing velo- city. An uniform motion in a straight line can only take place either when no force what- ever is exerted on the moving body, or when all the forces by which it is affected are in equi- librium. In order to investigate with greater precision the laws which regulate the movement s of the body, the Messrs. Weber have considered the weight of the trunk to be collected at the point of junction of the legs, and the weight of each leg, supposed a straight line, to be collected in a point at a given distance from that junction. The movements of these points are supposed to take place in the same vertical plane. They have then applied the general equation for the motion of a system of material points,f and deduced by means of it that the raised leg, in walking, swings forward like a pendulum, the length of which is the above-mentioned given distance, but in consequence of the motion of the point of junction, which is supposed to * The three forces which influence walking are so related to each other, that each of them is equiva- lent and opposite to the resultant of the other two. ' 1 See Poisson's Traite de Mechanique, Paris,