206 LYMPHATIC AND LACTEAL SYSTEM. Syn. Absorbent system.)—The lymphatic sys- tem is composed, in the first place, of the vessels which collect and convey the lymph from all parts of the body and the chyle from the intestines, and ultimately deposit them in the veins. Secondly, of the small fleshy bo- dies called conylobate, lymphatic, or absorbent glands, which are found connected with this system of vessels in various parts of their course. The lymphatic system is confined to the class Vertebrata. It is the least complicated in Fishes, and consists in them simply of pel- lucid valveless vessels. In Reptiles, also, it is composed of these vessels only, but which are armed with more or less perfect valves. In the two higher orders of Vertebrata, Birds and Mammalia, to the vessels containing very nu- merous and perfect valves, the conglobate glands are superadded : in all, however, the ter- mination of the system is in the veins, and its origin and general arrangements are probably in all essentially the same. The different parts of the lymphatic system had escaped the notice of anatomists until the middle of the sixteenth century, and the entire system was not discovered till the middle of the seventeenth. I must here except the lym- phatic glands, which from their large size must have been observed by the earliest anatomists, and we accordingly find them alluded to by Hippocrates, who classed them with the other glandular organs. The first isolated discovery in the vascular part of this system was made by Eustachius in 1563, who saw and described accurately the thoracic duct in a horse. He called it the vena alba thoracis, and traced it downwards from the left subclavian vein to the lumbar ver- tebrae, where he noticed the dilatation now called the receptaculum chyli; he however had no conception that it formed the trunk of a se- parate system of vessels, but conceived it to be a vein of a peculiar kind. Fifty-nine years af- terwards, in the year 1622, Asellius was fortu- nate enough to discover the lacteal vessels on the mesentery of a dog; and although on the following day he was much disappointed in not being able to see them in another dog in- spected for the purpose, by continuing his re- searches he soon convinced himself of their ex- istence in most animals. He also attributed to them their proper function, having remarked that whenever there was chyle in the intestines, these vessels also contained a white fluid, and could then only be seen. He failed, however, to connect the vena alba thoracis, the discovery of Eustachius, which had probably been for- gotten, with his own, and mistaking the lym- phatics of the under surface of the liver for the continuation of his vessels, was led into the error of supposing them to terminate in the liver. Asellius, who died in 1626, had not seen the lacteals in man, but inferred and as- serted their existence. According to Haller, Veslingius was the first who saw these vessels in the human subject, in the year 1634; but Breschet informs us, in his Systeme Lympha- tique, page 4, that, "en 1628, les lympha- tiques du mesentere furentaperfus pour la pre- miere fois chez l'homme. Peiresc, Senateur dAix, informe par Gassendi de la decouverle qu'avait faite Aselli, distribua plusieurs exem- plaires de l'ouvrage de ce proffesseur aux me- decins de sa connoissance, et leurabandonna un criminel condamne a mort, pour verifier le fait sur son cadavre. On fit bien manger cet homme avant de le conduire au supplice, et une heure et demie apres sa mort, l'ouverture du bas ventre montra le mesentere tout cou- vert de vaisseaux lactes pleins de chyle." The thoracic duct was rediscovered in the year 1649, by Pecquet, who published a de- scription of it in 1651. Haller ascribes this discovery to Veslingius : " Idem Veslingius, nisi plunmum fallor, primus post Eustachium, contra omnes coastaneos, rectius anno 1649, vidit vas lacteum grande, in pectus adscendere ; cum reliqui incisores, partim ab Asellio per- suasi, et partim a lymphaticis vasis hepatis se- ducti, chyhferos ductus ad hepar ducerent." It now became evident that the thoracic duct was the trunk of the vasa lactea, and that the chyle was not conveyed to the liver, as Asellius supposed, but was poured into the venous sys- tem at the union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins of the left side. The lymphatics of the under surface of the liver were soon after shewn by Glisson and Veslingius to have their valves so arranged as to convey their contents from, and not to this organ. In the two or three following years the rest of the lymphatic system was discovered by Rudbeck in Sweden, by Bartholin in Den- mark, and by Jolyffe in this country ; nor was it long before the function of absorption was ascribed to it by Glisson, in 1654, and by Hoffmann. Since this period, we have been in- debted for various details of the arrangement of this system of vessels in man and other Mam- malia, in Birds, in Reptiles, and Fishes, to numerous investigators, Nuck, Ruysch, Albi- nus, Meckel, Hunter, Monro, Ilewson, Cruick- shank, Scemmerring, Mascagni; and in the pre- sent day to Fohmann, Lauth, Lippi, Rossi, Panizza, and other continental anatomists. The lymphatic vessels in the human subject are exceedingly delicate and transparent tubes, numerous but small, existing in most if not in every part of the organism, crowded with valves, and terminating, after passing through the glandular bodies, in two princi- pal trunks, through which the contents of the whole system are emptied into the circulating venous blood at two corresponding points not far distant from the heart, viz. at or close to the angles of union between the subclavian and internal jugular veins. The two trunks of the lymphatic system are by no means symme- trical. That which enters the veins on the left side measures as much as sixteen or eighteen inches in length in the adult human subject. It commences in the abdominal cavity by a slightly marked dilatation, the receptaculum chyli, into which the chyliferous vessels pourtheir contents ; it then passes through the thorax to reach its termination in the neck. This trunk is usually termed the thoracic duct; it may