NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Comparative Anatomy.) 618 primitive fibres or tubes, and composed alto- gether of isolated cells, arranged in a linear direction only towards the middle of the cord, can transmit influences in any given direction; and more especially how the tract of black or grey matter, if it exercises any peculiar func- tion (excito-motory) communicates with the origin of the nerves. The nerves, also, are remarkable, originating in single roots, and containing in their composition one kind only ■of primitive fibres (cylindrical)."] Fig. 351. a, first cerebral mass or olfactory tubercle. 6, olfactory tubercle sliced, showing its solid struc- ture, c, second cerebral mass or optic lobe, of large relative size. d, optic lobe, cut open to shew the internal cavity, e, tubercles in the cavity. f, third cerebral mass or cerebellum, tongue-sha- ped, g, spinal cord, h, posterior longitudinal fis- sure of spinal cord, i, central canal of spinal cord. A, olfactory nerves. I, optic nerves, m, fifth pair of nerves, n, acous- tic nerve, o, glossopha- ryngeal nerve of Cuvier. p, eighth pair—par va- gum. q, bristle passed under the cerebellum and along the fourth ventricle, shewing the communica- tion of this latter w ith the cavity of the optic lobes or third ventricle. Brain and portion of spinal marrow o f Gadus morlma ( Cod-Jish), about natural size. The brain, especially in the lowest of the fishes, presents quite the appearance of a series of ganglia developed on the superior surface of the cords of the spinal marrow (fig. 351, a, b, c). In many species it is extremely small, and by no means fills the cranial cavity; in the mackarel, the volume of the brain and of the cavity destined to receive it are nearly equal. Its very small size is at once evident by com- paring its weight with that of the whole body of the animal: thus in a chub, weighing 842 scruples, the brain weighed only one scruple, the proportions being as 100 : 84200 ; in a carp, weighing 11280 grains, the brain weighed only fourteen grains, the proportions being as 100:80600 ; in a roach, weighing 5030 grains, the brain weighed only nine grains and a half, the proportions being as 100 : 52,900 ; and, as before observed, in a lamprey weighing 570 grains, the brain weighed only four-tenths of a grain, the proportions being as 100 : 142,500. [In Leuret's table a discrepancy still more striking may be observed. This author gives as a mean the proportion 1 : 5668.*] We thus observe how small is the proportion which the size of the brain bears to that of the rest of the body, and consequently how imperfect is as yet the developement of the encephalic mass. * Sy^teme nerveux, t. i. p. 153. On taking- a general review of the con- formation of the cerebral masses forming the brain of fishes, we find it to consist of a suite of ganglia arranged behind each other—two- pairs and a single one : 1st, there are two gan- glia or lobes, situated the most anteriorly, the olfactory lobes; immediately behind which are two others, generally of larger size, the optic lobes; and behind these, again, is a single ganglion or lobe, situated in the median line, the cerebellum. On the inferior surface, im- mediately underneath the optic lobes, are two more ganglia. The names that have been given to these parts are extremely various; and re- specting the relations and analogies which they bear to the brain of the higher animals, great difference of opinion exists. 1st. The olfactory tubercles, or first cerebral mass (figs. 351 and 352, a, a), which, with Arasky,* Serres,f Desmoulins,} Carus,§ and Tiedemann,||and contrary toCollins,H Monro,** Camper,|t Ebel,JJ Treviranus,§§ and Cuvier,||[| I consider as analogous to the cerebral hemi- spheres of man, are generally of small size, and contain no cavity (fig. 351, b). In the eel they consist of three pairs of ganglia, which increase in comparative size from before to behind ; in the carp and mackarel, of only one Fie. 352. Brain and portion of spinal marrow of Leuciscus ( Chub J, about natural size. a, first cerebral mass or olfactory tubercle, b, second cerebral mass or optic lobe, e, third cere- bral mass or cerebellum, d, spinal marrow, with its posterior longitudinal fissure, e, fourth ventri- cle, k, olfactory nerve. I, tuberculous enlarge- ment of the olfactory nerve. * De piscium cerebro. t Anatomie Comparee du Cerveau. 1 Comparative Description of the Brain in the Four Classes of Vertebrated Animals. <S Anatomie Comparee. || Anatomy of the Foetal Brain. This anatomist considers them as more particularly " analogous to the corpora striata, on the external borders of which the membranous hemispheres are not yet elevated." U System of Anatomy. ** Anat. of Fishes. tt Memoir on the Ear of Fishes, 1762—1774. if Observationes Nevrologicae ex Anatome Com- parata, 1788. yv Memoir on the Brain, 1817. Illj Lecons d'Anatomic Comparee.