50 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. head of the tibia, instead of amputation of the thigh, where it was found impracticable to re- move the leg at the ordinary place of election— four inches below the knee-joint. But Larrey made an addition to this operation, namely, the extraction of the head of the fibula. He says, " when the fibula is left short, which is usually the case, it is to be extirpated as useless, and troublesome in the application of the artificial leg, and the skin is to be left as long as pos- sible, to cover the stump." Mr. Guthrie gives Larrey much praise for drawing the attention of the profession to this " great improve- ment," and adds the weight of his high autho- rity by recommending the removal of the head of the fibula. In alluding to this subject we may appear to be departing from the proper object of this article,—the abnormal appear- ances presented by the knee-joint; but having known some melancholy examples of acute in- flammation of the knee-joint to follow the operation here recommended, we take this op- portunity of warning the profession against it. Mr. Guthrie himself says,'* it is possible, how- ever, that a case may occur (perhaps one in a thousand) in which the head of the fibula com- municates with the general cavity of the knee- joint ; in such a case amputation must be done above the knee." Independently of this com- munication between these two contiguous joints which Mr. Guthrie considers so rare, we have found, by repeated anatomical examinations of the relation existing between the synovial sacs of the knee-joint and that of the superior tibio- fibular articulation, that these two sacs are so close as to have but a thin transparent wall separating them. We consider it, not abso- lutely, but very nearly impracticable to cut out the head of the fibula in the living subject without making a communication with the pos- terior and back part of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint, so delicate is the thin trans- parent membrane which is interposed between the synovial sac of the knee-joint and the little synovial sac which partially envelopes the head of the fibula. Besides, in the living subject it must always prove to be a difficult matter to remove the head of the fibula without in- terfering with the tendon of the popliteus muscle, as we know the tendon to be enve- loped by a synovial production sent down along it, like that which in the shoulder-joint invests the tendon of the biceps. This synovial production is not confined to the tendon of the popliteus, but is also reflected over the groove formed for the reception of this tendon, and must be in danger of being opened in every operation which we can devise for the removal of the head of the fibula; and conse- quently, although there may be many cases in which it may be advisable to amputate the leg a little below the tubercle of the tibia, in no case, in our opinion, should the surgeon attempt to extirpate the head of the fibula. The idea that this small portion of bone, when left, is " useless and troublesome in the application of the artificial leg," may be true, but it is not the less true that in the majority of cases acute arthritis of the knee-joint will be very likely to succeed to this operation ; and we feel satisfied that, as soon as these anatomical relations be- tween the synovial sac of the knee-joint and that of the superior tibio-fibular articulation are reflected on, this modern proposal will be re- jected. Among the causes of acute arthritis genu, exposure to cold is very frequently referred to by the patient, and apparently with reason. The knee-joints being less covered by muscular parts than any other of the large articulations, are more subjected to the influences of cold, and on this account are perhaps more generally affected by acute and chronic inflammation than other articulations. It must be admitted, how- ever, that we have met with cases of acute inflammation of the knee-joint for the origin of which we could assign no cause, having come on, as we are accustomed to say, spontaneously. Acute arthritis genu sometimes arises as a symptom in the course of different diseases. Thus in diffuse inflammation and in phlebitis it is quite usual to find the joints visited by most severe attacks of inflammation. We have seen examples of acute arthritis supervening suddenly in the course of a severe attack of erysipelas;* and in rheumatic fever and puer- peral rheumatism we can see little else than an inflammation of the joints, the nature of the in- flammation in these cases, however, being very different. Although we have here spoken of three different forms of disease, diffuse inflammation, phlebitis, and puerperal rheumatism, we have ourselves long entertained the opinion expressed by Mr. Arnott, Velpeau, Dance, Cruveilhier, our friend Dr. Beatty, and others,t that the three forms of disease in which the acute arthri- tis we are here treating of occurs, are the same, and that the arthritis in all three is similar, and proceeds from the same common cause, viz. phlebitis and its consequences. The peculiar form of acute arthritis here adverted to has in almost all cases been found to have been preceded by phlebitis. This may have come on spontaneously, or in consequence of a wound, or of the vessel having been in- cluded in a ligature. The form of acute arthri- tis which has been called puerperal rheumatism has also been found, in many cases, coincident with or preceded by phlebitis of the veins of the uterine system, or of some other veins. J We have seen many cases which we consi- dered to be examples of diffuse inflammation in very young subjects, engaging the periosteum of the femur and tibia, and terminating in the complete destruction of the bone, in the short space of three days. Sometimes the periosteum of the femur, for example, formed a complete cylindrical sac containing the detached shaft of the bone. The symptoms of acute arthritis which occur in the course of a case of diffuse inflammation * See Dublin Journ. vol. xvii. p. 336, and in this article p. 55. t See Dublin Journ., and Mr. Arnott's valuable observations in the Med. Chir. Trans. t See Dance's, Beatty's, and Mr. Harrison's cases, Dublin Journ.