ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 189 year. The patient died with jaundice and ascites. The liver, a portion of which I pos- sess, presented a fine specimen of granulated cirrhosis; it " was diminished to one-half its natural size, and Mr. Kiernan on injecting it, discovered that a collateral venous circulation had been established by way of the diaphragm." In another case in a woman who had been tapped ninety times, Kiernan upon injecting the liver found that the same kind of collateral circulation had been formed. The circulation through the liver had been impeded by the developement of condensed cellular tissue, and the greater part of the blood of the portal vein had made its way through dilated vessels upon the surface of the organ to the diaphragm, and from thence into the general venous circulation. In this case there were numerous bands of ad- hesion between the liver and diaphragm, and between the intestines and the walls of the abdomen, and these also were traversed by large veins conveying blood from the portal vein into the genera! venous current. With regard to the pathological nature of the disease many opinions have been enter- tained by different writers. Laennec, dazzled by an ingenious theory deduced from his ob- servations upon the nature and progress of scrofulous tubercle, saw in the mottled and granular section of cirrhosis only a " morbid deposit," a special accidental tissue existing in the two states of crudity and softening. But I quote the words of this author as detailed by Ferrus,* for while he errs in his speculations with regard to the nature of the disease, he draws an excellent picture of its general cha- racters and appearance. " Les cinhons ex- istent dans l'etat de erudite et de ramoliisse- ment. Dans le premier de ces etats elles presentent un tissu d'une couleur fauve plus au moins foncee, qui quelquefois lire un peu sur le verdatre; on ne peut s'en faire une meilleure idee qu'en la comparant a celle qu'ofTrent les capsules surrenales chez l'adulte. Ce tissu, quoiquefort consistant, a une sorte de flaccidite que je ne puis mieux comparer qu' a celle de certains fongus, ou d'un cuir mou. Le tissu des cyrrhoses est d'ailleurs compact, assez humide et tres-delie. On n'y distingue aucune trace de fibres, quoiqu'il presente en certains cas des divisions en forme de squames. Les cyrrhoses piennent en se ramollissant une couleur plus brunatre." " M. Laennec admet trois sortes de cyrrhoses : 1°. cyrrhoses en masses; 2°. en plaques; 3°. en kystes. Lorsqu'il existe, dit-il, des cyrrhoses dans le foie, elles forment ordinaire- ment de petites masses dont le volume ne surpasse jamais celui d'un noyau de cerise, et quelquefois egale a peine celui d'un gros grain de millet. Ces masses sont toujours extreme- ment nombreuses, et tout le tissu du foie en est par erne. Leur petitesse fait que lorsqu'on incise un foie dans lequel il en existe un grand nombre, son tissu parait au premier coup d'ceil homogene et d'une couleur jaune fauve. Mais si on examine plus altentivement le tissu hepa- tique, on s'apercoit facilement qu'il est rempli * Dictionnairc de Mcdecine, Art. Foie. d'une innombrable quantite de oorpuscules assez semblables, pour l'aspect a ces lobules de graisse durcie et rousseatre que Ton trouve communcment dans le tissu cellulaire sous- cutanc de la cuisse et de la jambe des sujets atlaques d'anasarque. Ces petites masses sont quelquefois unies ties-intimement au tissu du foie ; mais assex souvent elles en sont separees par une couche mince de tissu cellulaire qui leur forme une enveloppe tenue, et alors lis se detachent assez facilement. La surface exte- rieuredu foiedevient fletrie,rugueuse,et ratatinee a-peu-pres de la mirae maniere qu'une pom me fletrie." Bouillaud* considers this condition of the liver a dissociation of the two natural elements of the organ : " les masses jaunes fauves con- stituant le tissu accidentel, appele cirrhose, ne sont autres chose que les granulations secre- toires se desorganisant graduellement par 1'erlet de l'obliteration du lacis vasculaire, et de l'obstacle a la circulation hepatique qui en resulte." We have already comhatted the ex- istence of two substances, and further remark upon this subject must be quite unnecessary. Andral j sees, in the cirrhosis, atrophy of the red substance and hypertrophy of the yellow substance. Of all modern authors, Cruvedhier approaches nearest to the true condition of tiie organ, but from his misapprehension of the exact nature of the lobules, even his opinion cannot be accepted without limitation. Cirrho- sis, says this author,! is " atropine du plus grand nombre des grains gianduleux, et hyper- trophic avec coloration jaune des grains giandu- leux restans." Now cirrhosis is undoubtedly a partial atrophy of the liver with hypertrophy of the cellular structure; complete atrophy of some of the lobules, partial atrophy of others, and biliary congestion without atrophy or hy- pertrophy of the rest. Those small yellow grains varying in size from a millet-seed to a pea or to a hazel-nut, are not distinct lobules in a variable slate of hypertrophy, but small uncongested patches composed of parts of several adjoining lobules, and having a single or several interlobular spaces for a centre. Hence it is, as we have before shown, thatCru- veilhier§ has observed the " partie centiale de chaque granulation repond au radicule biliare, et consequemment est souvent teiute en jaune et que la partie excentrique repond a l'element vasculaire et consequemment est plus rouge que la partie centiale." d. Softening of the liver may accompany any of the changes resulting from acute inflamma- tion. The degree of softening is very variable, the organ having at one time a simple abnormal degreeof friability when pressed by thehand,and at others constituting a pulpy mass scarcely re- tained in its form by the cellular framework of its vessels andClisson's capsule. Softening may be unaccompanied by any marked change in the bulk of the organ, but is always associated with a variable intensity of venous congestion. Biliary * Memoire de hi Societe Medicale d'Emulation. t Anacomie Patho'.ogique, vol. ii. p. 585. X Anatomic Descriptive, vol. ii. p. 568. §■ Anatomic Pathologique, livraison 12.