LACRYMAL ORGANS. 86 everted and examined, the moisture being first wiped off from its surface, under different direc- tions of the light, an appearance is observed as of a shining surface beset with small brilliant grains, as if minutely shagreened. This ap- pearance is more or less distinct in different individuals and most so after death. The appearance described is produced by numerous papillae, considered nervous by Ruysch,* and small glands by Miiller,t and, after him, by most other authors. Eble+ objects to this view of the matter, and asserts that the papillae are quite distinct from mucous glands, and are the same as the papillae found on other mucous surfaces, and that they particularly resemble the papilla? of the mucous membrane of the gums and inner surface of the alae nasi. Eble, however, adds that these papillae present themselves in all the mucous membranes in a manner quite analogous to glands, and he thinks that the mucus of mucous membranes is the product of the secretion of the papillary body. And this is equally applicable to the secretion of the palpebral conjunctiva, whence it would appear that Muller and Eble really do not differ in opinion, but only in the terms they employ to express it. The part where the papillary body appears least distinctly is between the edge of the eyelid and the groove on the posterior surface above mentioned. The palpebral conjunctiva all beyond the groove presents the papillary body in a more decided form, and the development of it goes on increasing to some distance beyond the orbital margin of the tarsus. The con- junctiva covering the lacrymal caruncle, as also the greatest part of the semilunar fold, present no papillary body. Towards the lacrymal points there is found a great number of pretty apparent papillae. The papillary body is very vascular. It is the morbid development of it which constitutes the so-called granulations of the eyelids in the puro-mucous ophthalmiae ; of which indeed the papillary body appears to be the peculiar seat. An inflammation suddenly affecting a healthy conjunctiva from atmospherical causes is what is conventionally called a catarrhal ophthalmia. If this be allowed to fall into a chronic state, or if the conjunctiva has been affected by a less marked inflammatory action for a time, the papillary body becomes hypertrophied. In this state it forms as it were a new organ ready to be affected by a form of disease which a healthy conjunctiva is not all at once so prone to as- sume. Mere congestion caused by over- exertion of the eyes, or by heavy caps and high tight collars, as Dr. Vleminckx thinks, together with fatigue, exposure, want of cleanliness, abuse of stimulating liquors, &c, may give * 10th Thesaurus. t Erfahrungssatze iiber die contagiose oder agyptische Augenentzundung. Mainz, 1821. X Op. cit. p. 19, 29, pi. i and ii. Or the Belgian- French translation, " De la Structure et des Mala- dies de la Conjonctive. &c. Traduit de l'AHemand par Ed. de Losen de Scltenhoff, M.D. Publie par ordre du Ministre de la Guerre. Bruxelles, 183b. rise to this unnatural development of the papil- lary body of the conjunctiva, and so predispose in a particular manner, on the occurrence of any atmospherical influence, to an attack of con- junctivitis, and that rather of the form of the Egyptian ophthalmia than of a simple ca- tarrhal. Epithelium of the palpebral conjunctiva.— " It is extremely difficult," says Eble,* " to distinguish this on so fine a membrane. Al- though I have succeeded, by maceration in boiling water, in detaching it in part from the eyelids of an ox, I have not again been able to convince myself of the exactness of the obser- vation as I could have wished." J. F. Meckel doubted the existence of an epithelium. Eble says again that he would, however, admit its presence on the conjunctiva rather from analogy than from observation. Here is a good example of the assistance derivable from the microscope, two such observers as Meckel and Eble unable with the naked eye to determine the existence of a structure which later observers with the microscope have fully established. We shall return to the subject in speaking of the epithe- lium of the conjunctiva bulbi. Sclerotic conjunctiva, conjunctiva sclerotica:. As far as vascularity goes, there is a decided difference between this and the preceding. The sclerotic conjunctiva is composed of a chorion or vascular basis of the membrane covered by epithelium. Valentinf describes between the chorion and epithelium another structure which he calls papillary. The chorion of the sclerotic conjunctiva con- sists of irregularly stratified fibres of cellular tissue interwoven with bloodvessels and nerves. " Do the conjunctiva scleroticae and the conjunctival pellicle of the cornea also preserve a papillary body or not?" asks Eble,]: in re- ference to Valentin's assertion of one. Eble admits the structure described by Valentin under the name of papillary body between the chorion and epithelium of the conjunc- tiva bulbi, but thinks, and correctly, that it is a very different thing from the papillary body of the palpebral conjunctiva as described by himself. Valentin's papillary body of the con- junctiva bulbi is a matter of the microscope— Eble's papillary body of the palpebral con- junctiva, though minute, is still in some de- gree cognisable to the naked eye. Hypertrophy of the papillary body of the palpebral conjunc- tiva constitutes, as has been said, what is called granular conjunctiva. We never see such a gra- nular state of" the sclerotic conjunctiva. The following is Valentin's description of what he calls the papillary body of the conjunc- tiva bulbi:—It is best seen in the human eye, " when, after several days' maceration, the loosened and swollen epithelium is carefully * Loc. cit. t Repertorium fiir die Anatomie &c. Bd. 1 ; pp. 142—300. Berlin, 1837. X In medicinischen Jahrbiicher des V. k. Oester- reichischen Staates. Neueste Folge, xvi. Band, p. 73.