NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nerve.) 593 from each other, and are extremely variable in shape and size. Two conditions appear to favour the production of this varicose state of the nerve-tube,—namely, a feeble power of re- sistance in the tubular membrane, and, se- condly, perhaps, a semi-fluid slate of the con- tained nervous pulp; and hence we find that some nerve-tubes are much more prone to become varicose than others. In the nerves of pure sense the tubes are very delicate in structure and very apt to exhibit this change of form, and in the brain and spinal cord they exhibit the same tendency. Ehrenberg sup- posed formerly that these varicosities were natural and existed during life, and that they afforded a valuable morphological character of the nerves of pure sense and the cerebro-spinal centres. But many circumstances favour the opinion that the varicosities are accidental; thus, the very irregularities above noticed in their shape, size, form, and number on a single tube are not likely to occur in the natural state. Moreover, in a piece of the brain or spinal cord not much pressed nor torn, the cylinders may be distinctly seen: even in the manipulated specimens the varicose tubes form only a small portion of the whole. And in those nerves whose fibres are not prone to become varicose, such as muscular nerves, they may be made so by firm pressure and violence in manipulation. In the nerve-tubes of young animals, in whom the tissues are more tender and contain more abundant water, these changes are also very apt to take place. A cerebro-spinal nerve, then, consists of a congeries of fascicles or bundles of the nerve- fibres or nerve-tubes (and we shall use these terms synonymously) above described, enve- loped and bound together by fibrous mem- brane, the nerve-sheath. The nerve-tubes lie side by side, parallel, and sometimes have a wavy course within ihe general sheath (Jig. 331). The relation of the nerve-tubes to each Fig. 331. Diagram to illustrate the wavy course of the nerve tubes within the neurilemma. other is simply that of juxta-position. All observers, from Fontana down to those of the present day, agree in denying the ex- istence of any inosculation or anastomosis between the fibres in vertebrate animals; and it seems almost certain that this complete isolation of the nerve-tubes is not limited to those of the nerves, properly so called, but may be observed in the nervous centres also. When a piece of nerve is examined on a dark ground, as an opaque object, with an object glass of a quarter of an inch focus, the disposi- tion and relation of its component tubules are more beautifully seen than by any other mode of examination. The primitive fibres present the appearance of a series of transparent tubes, containing an exquisitely delicate, soft, pearly- white material. vol. nr. In point of size the nerve tubes present considerable variety even in the same trunk, while they maintain an identity of structure. The smallest tubes have very delicate walls, and are more easily rendered varicose than the larger ones. The following table gives a state- ment of the results of the admeasurement of the cerebro-spinal tubules in Man and other Vertebrata. Man, and other Mammalia, from ^ t0 vhm of an inch. Birds, r^m to ^m of an inch. Keptiles, Frog, ^ to ^m of an inch. Fish, Eel, TO'?3 of an inch. Codfish, optic nerve, jL, of an inch. It has already been remarked that no such thing as subdivision or branching of the pri- mitive tubules takes place in the cerebro-spinal nerves of the vertebrate series. Whatever be the connection which each primitive tubule forms with the nervous centre, or with the textures to which it is distributed at its pe- riphery, it passes from one point to the other without any change, save perhaps in size, and without any communication with neighbour- ing tubules, beyond simple juxta-position, or investment by a common sheath. This fact was recognized by Fontana, whose description of the structure of nerve, although drawn up from observations made at a great disadvan- tage through the imperfection of his instru- ments, corresponds in all essential particulars with modern observations.* And as there is the same absence of subdivision in the con- tinuations of these nerve-tubes in the nervous centres, we may fairly infer that each point on the periphery which is in contact with a nerve- tube, is, as it were, represented by that same nerve-tube in the centre. The structure of the cerebro-spinal nerve admits of an obvious comparison with that of the striped muscle. Both are composed of bundles of fibres, united by a sheath, which also passes between the bundles, and is a nidus for the support of the nu- trient vessels. Both admit of being subdi- vided into primitive fibres, which are very analogous in structure. The primitive fibre of muscle (primitive fasciculus of some authors) consists of the true muscular tissue, or sarcous elements contained in a transparent sheath of homogeneous elastic membrane called sarco- lemma by Mr. Bowman. The peculiar mor- phological characters of the primitive fibre depend upon the arrangement of the sarcous particles within this transparent tube; and to this arrangement is due any further subdivision of which the primitive muscular fibre may be susceptible. So is it with the primitive nerve- fibre : its tubular membrane is strictly analo- gous in structure and other characters with the sarcolemma. It contains the elements of the true nervous tissue or neurine, and this ad- mits of a ceriain subdivision which may be ren- dered more apparent under the influence of re- agents, and which is variously interpreted by different observers, and lias been compared to * Fontana sur le venin de la vipere. 2 Q