720l PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Effects of the galvanic stimulus.—The most perfect and powerful physical stimulus of motor nerves, and that which most nearly imitates the natural mental stimulus, is the galvanic current. That the nerve should be duly excited by the galvanic current it is necessary that the current should pass along its fibres for however short a distance. If it pass across the fibre, and at right angles to it, it will produce no effect upon the muscles; but if it travel along it, even for the twentieth or a smaller portion of an inch, it will effectually excite the nerve and its muscles, just as when the will stimulates it to action. The influence of the galvanic current upon nerves is so remarkable that it deserves the careful study of physiologists and of practition- ers in medicine who often have recourse to the galvanic stimulus with the hope of rousing the dormant energies of nerves. It is to the Italian school of Phi/siciens that we owe the highly interesting series of facts which have been col- lected upon the influence of the galvanic cur- rent upon nerves, to Galvani, Valli, Volta, Marianini, Nobili, and, although last not least, to my distinguished friend, Professor Matteucci, of Pisa, by whose well-devised ex- periments and researches a flood of light has been thrown upon this hitherto obscure and difficult subject. I shall content myself here with briefly no- ticing the points most deserving of attention as bearing upon the laws of action of the nerves. 1. When a galvanic current is passed for how- ever short a distance along a nerve which contains motor fibres, muscular contractions will be excited at the moment of completing as well at that of breaking the circuit, but not while the current is passing. These phenomena take place whatever be the direction in which the current be passed, whether from the nervous centre towards the periphery, (when the current is distinguished as the direct current,) or from the periphery towards the centre (when the current is styled the inverse current). These effects may be produced in warm as well as in cold-blooded animals. In the former, however, the physical conditions necessary for the display of the vital forces continue for so brief a period that cold-blooded animals should be selected for the experiments. On this ac- count, as well as because of their peculiar sus- ceptibility to the galvanic current, frogs are ge- nerally employed for this purpose. The most striking way of exhibiting the influence of the current, direct and inverse, upon the nerves is illustrated by the annexed woodcut. It repre- sents a frog prepared in the manner adopted by Galvani. The integuments have been removed from the lower extremities, which have been separated from the trunk by the division of the lumbar region of the spine. The lumbar nerves are carefully raised from the muscles on which they lie, but are suffered to retain their con- nection with the spinal cord and with the thighs. The pelvic bones, however, are re- moved so as to admit of the more free separa- tion of the extremities, as well as to isolate the nerves more completely. Each leg is immersed in a glass or cup of water, and the current is made to pass through the limbs by immersing each wire of the battery in the water of the cups. It is obvious that in one limb the current is direct, whilst in the other it is inverse. The advantage of this arrangement is that it affords great facility in making and breaking the current without bringing the conducting wire of the battery into actual contact with either limb. One wire may be left constantly in the water, while the other can be alternately intro- duced or removed from it as we wish to ob- serve the effects of completing or of breaking the current. 2. If the current be allowed to pass for a short time through the nerves of a frog, pre- pared as before-mentioned, contractions will no longer take place in both limbs at the same time, but only in one upon completing the circuit, in the other on breaking. And we shall always find that the contractions occur on making in the limb in which the current is direct, on breaking in the limb in which the current is inverse. I find it useful to adopt the following formula to impress this fact upon the memory ; MD, BI, making direct, breaking inverse. 3. If the current continue to pass for some time longer, these phenomena cease completely Fig. 398a. Lower extremities of the prepared Frog. P, positive wire of the battery; N, negative ditto. In the limb A the current will be inverse; in B it will be direct. 2 z 2 ***