LYMPHATIC AND LACTEAL SYSTEM. 207 be said to receive the lymph of three-fourths of the body, together with the whole of the chyle. The right lymphatic trunk is about two lines in diameter, very short, corresponding in situa- tion and length to the last half-inch of the left trunk; consequently it will only be found at the root of the neck, close to the point of its termination. This trunk receives the remaining fourth of the lymph, viz. that collected from the right upper fourth of the body. Professor Lippi published a work on the lymphatic system in the year 1825, in which he described in the human subject many terminations of the lymphatics in other parts of the venous sys- tem, especially in the vena cava inferior, the vena portce, and the principal branches by which these vessels are formed, but subsequent observers have not corroborated his views. The vessels which Professor Lippi saw joining other large venous trunks were evidently the returning veins of the conglobate glands, into which the injection received by the lymphatics had passed during its transit through the glands : —a fact of extreme interest, and to which we must recur in speaking of the structure of the glands, but which has been observed by every anatomist who has had much practical experi- ence in injecting the lymphatic system. Lippi would have been perfectly correct, how- ever, had he confined his statement to what takes place in Birds, Reptiles, and Fishes. The lymphatic vessels resemble the veins in possessing valves, and in conveying their contents from branch to trunk ; moreover their internal tunics are continuous where the one set of vessels joins the other. In their mode of distribution also throughout the body the analogy between the two systems is consi- derable. Eustachius,when he first saw the prin- cipal trunk of the lymphatics, from its being filled with chyle, at once described it under the name of the vena alba thoracis, and many have considered the lymphatic vessels as an appendage to the venous system, rendering it more perfect. Although we are warranted in saying that the lymphatic vessels convey their contents from branch to trunk, by which is generally understood from smaller and more numerous to larger and less numerous vessels, as is the case with the veins; yet is there an- other principle apparently of an opposite kind observed in their distribution, by which the in- fluence of capillary attraction is engaged in the important service of moving onward their con- tents, at the same time that these are ex- posed to a larger surface of the containing vessels, from which in all probability they derive some essential modification. This admirable and simple provision is especially evident in the lower extremities, where the greatest resis- tance from gravity is to be overcome. A vessel on the instep, for instance, of half a line in diameter, instead of emptying itself into a larger one as it proceeds upwards, bifurcates into vessels of equal diameter with itself; each of these again will in a similar manner sub- divide, until at length by a series of dicho- tomous divisions, although some reunions may take place, this single vessel has multiplied itself by the time it reaches the inguinal region into as many as fifteen or more branches, each of the same diameter or nearly so as the ori- ginal branch on the instep. Indeed, through- out the lymphatic system, we scarcely find a branch of more than an inch in length whose diameter is not within the range requisite for the production of capillary attraction. The thoracic duct itself, which is two or three lines in diameter, may be said to form an exception, but the onward progress of its contents is specially provided for by its juxta-position to the aorta, from which circumstance it is sub- jected during life to an alternating pressure of considerable force, and fully competent in a vessel provided with valves to ensure the ad- vance of its contents. The principal lymphatics in any part of the body may be said, taken collectively, to equal the capacity of the arteries or veins of the same part; thus, in the inguinal region the sum of the diameters of the lymphatic vessels may equal the diameter of the main channel by which the venous blood is returned from the lower extremity ; but by this simple subdivision of the outlet for the lymph into numerous branches, that almost universal, and, in its effects, wonderful power, by which the nutrient fluid throughout the vegetable creation is car- ried from the lowest fibril of the root to the highest living point in vegetable existence, is made available in the progression of the lymph in animals towards the centres of the system. This disposition of the lymphatic vessels throughout their course necessitates a greater uniformity in point of size, than we find to hold good with the artery or vein, and indeed constitutes their chief peculiarity in distribution when com- pared with the other divisions of the vascular system. The arborescent appearance, except on the surface of the liver and spleen, is scarcely to be met with in the lymphatics ; they almost always form a net-work of vessels, the meshes of which vary both in form and size in the different organs and in different parts of the body; as a general rule, when the vessels have a short course to run, the spaces they enclose are small and more nearly equi- lateral ; but when the contrary is the case, as occurs in the extremities, the meshes are very large and much elongated, so that the vessels run nearly parallel with each other, and the net-work arrangement is scarcely perceptible; there is, however, still less appearance of arbor- escence. In this respect the lymphatics may be said to resemble more the capillary bloodvessels, which in the web of the frog's foot, or in the vesicular lungs of the salamander, toad, or frog, are so plainly seen to form a net-woik of nearly equal-sized vessels, and, indeed, to cease to he capillaries when they become arborescent. Another peculiarity in the disposition of the lymphatic vessels occurs at their approach to a conglobate gland, through which their contents are to be conveyed. The vessels leading to a gland which are termed the vasa inferentia or afferentia of the gland, vary in number, being seldom less than two, and rarely amounting to