254 MAMMARY GLANDS. they continue for many years free from the disposition to become so, yet if they remain until the period of the cessation of menstruation they sometimes assume a new and malignant action." The breast is not exempted from the deposit of either cartilaginous or ossific matter, and tumours of this character are occasionally developed in its substance. The breast is occasionally enlarged by hyper- trophy of the adipose tissue. A tumour of this kind, removed by Sir Astley Cooper, is preserved in the Museum of St. Thomas's Hospital, which weighed 14 lbs. 10 oz. The whole structure of the mamma also has been found hypertrophied and the breasts enormously increased in dimensions without being appa- rently the subject of any disease. That all- pervading poison of some constitutions—the scrofulous tubercular matter—does not leave the mamma exempt from its influence. Sir Astley says that these tumours " can only be distinguished from the simple chronic inflam- mation of the breast by the absence of tender- ness, and by the existence of other diseases of a similar kind in the absorbent glands of other parts of the body." They produce no danger- ous effects, and do not degenerate into malig- nancy. " The breast is liable to become irritable without any distinct or perceptible swelling, as well as to form an irritable tumour composed of a structure unlike that of the gland itself, and which therefore appears to be of a specific growth." " When the complaint affects the glandular structure of the breast, there is scarcely any perceptible swelling, but one or more of its lobes becomes exquisitely tender to the touch, and if it be handled the pain sometimes continues for several hours." " There is no external mark of inflammation, as the skin remains undiscoloured." " Besides this irrita- ble and painful state of a whole or part of the breast, a tumour sometimes is found distinctly circumscribed, highly sensitive to the touch, acutely painful at intervals, more especially prior to menstruation, very moveable, often not larger than a pea, seldom exceeding the size of a marble; generally one only exists, but in other cases there are several similar swellings." " Although they continue for years they vary but little in size. I have never seen them suppurate. They sometimes spontaneously cease to be painful, and sometimes disappear without any obvious cause. Upon dissection they are found to be composed of a solid and semi-transparent substance, with fibres inter- woven with it, but without any regular distri- bution, and I have not been able to trace any large filament of a nerve into them." " The pain with which this tumour is accompanied, its tenderness to the slightest touch or to pressure of any kind, the suffering which succeeds ex- amination, distinguish it from the hydatic, the chronic mammary tumour, and the scirrhous and fungous tubercle." The malignant or incurable diseases of the breast may be classed under two heads, scirrhous carcinoma or cancer, and fungus haematodes. Scirrhus has been again subdivided into genera by different authors, some in relation to their external appearances and situation, others in accordance with their internal structure. Dr. Benedict, Professor in the University of Breslau,* in giving the following arrangement has rather pursued the former plan :—1st. Cu- taneous cancer. 2d. True scirrhus; consist- ing of—1. Nodulated scirrhus; 2. Lard-like scirrhus; 3. Bladder scirrhus. Miiller, in his late work on cancer, which has been translated by Dr. West, describes the different kinds of carcinoma to which the breast, in common with other organs, is liable, not in reference to their seat whether cutaneous or glandular, but in accordance with their intimate structure; and lo scirrhus, medullary sarcoma, carcinoma alveolare, and carcinoma melanodes of former authors, has added carcinoma reticu- lare and fasciculatum. To these we shall return a little further on, dwelling previously on a form of cancer which is not very common but highly important in a practical point of view to the surgeon. " Cutaneous cancer of the breast," says Dr. Benedict, p. 39, " deserves to be particularly noticed, because most surgeons frequently con- found it with the common cancer, from which it, however, materially differs. It never springs in the substance of the organ, but always and solely in the surface of the skin, and most probably from fat and adipose glands of the same. Its form is similar to that of cancer in the face and eyelids, and arises in the same way. At first there is nothing but a little knot, wart, or hard little spot somewhere upon the skin of the breast. This place begins gradually to redden and then passes into a stage of ulcera- tion. The swelling which has hard edges and a hard base spreads out, increasing both in depth and width so as to advance from the skin into the substance of the gland, not passing far, and only very gradually destroying the breast. The glands of the axilla are not attacked so early as in carcinoma of the gland itself, and the hectic fever which ultimately destroys the patient developes itself after a much longer period. Mr. Travels (Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xvii.) also describes this cutaneous cancer in the fol- lowing words : " There is a cancerous tubercle of the skin which appears upon the breast as in other parts, connected with a remarkable change in the texture of the skin. The affection of the skin is, I believe, primary. It consists of a brawning induration with extension of the areolae, a coarseness such as this texture pre- sents when viewed through a magnifier, and which gives it a resemblance to pig's skin. Isolated tubercles of various sizes appear at con- siderable distances apart: the texture of the subjacent cellular membrane is enormously thickened and has a cartilaginous hardness; and the breast when the skin undergoes this change upon that organ is early and immoveably fixed to the chest." I have drawings of two cases of the kind : one which occurred in the practice of * Bemerkimgen iiber die Krankheiten der Brust- und Achsel-Driisen. Breslau, 1825, 4to. p. 59,