NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. Abnormal Anatomy.) 720e substance and passing into the lateral ventricle of one side, and thence through the foramen of Monro into the lateral ventricle of the other side. The convolutions are the next most frequent seat of apoplexy, and after them either hemisphere of the cerebellum, and either crus cerebri. The pons, crus cerebri, crus cerebelli, are much less frequently affec ">d by hemorrhage. These parts are denser in jtruc- ture and less freely supplied with blood, and, therefore, less prone to apoplectic effusion than those before mentioned. Cancer of. the brain.-—Cancer is occasion- ally, although very rarely, found affecting some part of the encephalon; most frequently it ex- tends into some portion of it from the meninges. Andral lias given a good history of this diseased condition, founded upon the analysis of forty-three cases.* Of these, the hemispheres were the seat of the cancer in thirty-one, in five the cerebellum was affected, once the meso- cephale, three times the pituitary body, and three times the spinal cord. The number and size of the cancerous tu- mors are very various. The cancer may begin in the meninges, and attack the bone on the one hand and the brain on the other; or it may be first developed in the substance of the hemisphete. When the disease is superficial the cranial walls may become extensively im- plicated. I have seen the greater part of the parietal bone implicated in a cancerous tumor. Andral mentions a case in which the frontal and temporal bones were completely destroyed, and another in which the cancer, developed at the inferior surface of the brain, passed out through the foramina of the base of the cranium. Cerebral cancer is most frequently of the soft or fungoid kind, but sometimes it occurs in the form of small hard tumours, deposited in various parts of the brain, and separated from the surrounding cerebral substance by a distinct membrane or capsule. Frequently it appears to be primary, or at least there seems no evident connection between it and any other cancerous deposit situate elsewhere. Of An- drei's forty cases only ten were associated with cancer in other situations. Tubercle of the brain. — The anatomical characters of tubercle of the brain are very definite. The colour is yellow, the more con- spicuous by reason of the white or grey of the surrounding cerebral texture; the consistence cheesy. Its section affords a smooth and clean surface, but if broken up by the point of the knife, its texture appears to be minutely granu- lar. Sometimes this tubercular matter may be picked out of a very distinct capsule. The tubercles vary very much in size, sometimes as small as a millet seed, frequently the size of a split pea, or even as large as a filbert or a wal- nut, rarely much larger. The parts of the brain most frequently af- fected by tubercle are the cerebral hemispheres and those of the cerebellum. The mesocephale and the medulla oblongata are rarely the seat of it. It is generally situated near the surface » Clin. Med., t. v., p. 633. or near some process of pia mater; conse- quently it is most commonly met with in the grey matter of the brain. Cerebral tubercle excites inflammation in the surrounding brain substance, which is then found in the state of red softening; and some- times suppuration may be established, the tubercular matter being more or less broken down and diffused in the pus. It is thus that tubercles of the brain prove so destructive to life. They may remain quiescent and unde- tected and even unsuspected until some irritation, often propagated from the periphery, excites surrounding inflammation, which by reason of the presence of the foreign matter of the tuber- cle, is kept up, and refuses to yield to any measure of treatment. Cerebral tubercle exhi- bits no spontaneous tendency to soften, nor does it frequently degenerate into earthy con- cretions. Entozoa.—The entozoa found in the brain are the cysticerevs cellulose, and the acephalo- cyst, with its denizen the echinococcus. Like tubercles, these are always placed near the vas- cular surface, and they may be said more properly to infest the pia mater than the sub- stance of the brain; by their growth, however, they encroach more or less upon it. The ani- mals sometimes die, and their containing cysts shrink up and become converted into earthy matter, forming calcareous tumors of variable size in the substance or on the surface of the brain. Morbid states of the ventricles of the brain. —The diseased conditions of the ventricles of the brain are referable, first, to the cavities themselves; secondly, to their contents; thirdly, to their lining membrane and to the choroid plexus. The most frequent morbid condition of the ventricles is a state of dilatation, which is always passive, being produced by the accumulation of water in it. This retention of fluid within these cavities appears to be a true dropsy, and is in most cases connected with an external meningeal inflammation in a strumous constitu- tion. It is in children that we most frequently meet with this dilatation of the ventricles, and in them it constitutes the disease called hydro- cephalus interims. In adults it occurs some- times, but extremely rarely. In the former, when the disease is of a very chronic nature, the fluid will accumulate to a very great extent, and enlarge not only the ventricles but the cranium itself to an enormous size. In persons in advanced age, in lunatics of long standing, and in old epileptics, we fre- quently see a dilated state of the ventricles from distension by water. This is always asso- ciated with a wasted state of the brain; this fluid, as well as the external fluid, serving to fill up the space from which the cerebral matter had receded. In all these cases the ventricles which expe- rience dilatation are the lateral ventricles, the third and the fourth. In a very few instances the fifth ventricle has been found similarly dilated. The fluid contained in the ventricles is gene- rally a clear straw-coloured serum, varying in