MAMMARY GLANDS. 251 Although the usual number of mamma? in the human species is only two, still there are exceptions and instances on record of more having been developed. One of the best authenticated and most recent of these cases is related by Dr. Lee, in the Transac- tions of the Medical and Chirurgical Society fori 837* In this instance " the inferior or pectoral mammaj were fully developed and in the na- tural situation, and their nipples, areolae, and glands presented nothing unusual in their ap- pearance. Near the anterior margin of the axilla, a little higher up on each side, was si- tuated another mamma, about one-sixth of the size of the others. The nipples of these were small and flat, but when gently pressed, a milky fluid which had all the external cha- racters of the milk secreted by the other breasts, flowed copiously and readily from several ducts which opened on their extremities. When milk was drawn from the lower breasts, a small quantity usually escaped from the nipples of the superior breasts, and when the draught came into the former, the latter invariably be- came hard and distended." The flatness of the nipples prevented her suckling her children by them. Dr. Lee, in the above paper, quotes five other cases from foreign authors of qua- druple mamma?, also stating that " in some women only one breast has been developed ; others have had two nipples placed on one mamma; and a few individuals have had three breasts, two in the natural situation and a third situated in the middle of the two others. Only one case has been recorded of five mamma? in the human subject."t Comparative anatomy.—In considering this division of our subject we shall especially di- rect our attention to those points in the anatomy of the mamma? of animals which possess a phy- siological interest, omitting minute anatomical details unless they bear upon general principles. These organs in the Kangaroo, one of the Mar- supiata, as we have already hinted at, are peculiarly formed, for the young of these ani- mals,when first removed from the uterine cavity of its parent, is more like an earth-worm in its appearance than the active animal by which it is produced. So helpless is the condition of this young animal that it has not been inap- propriately called a mammary foetus, for the mamma?, in this instance, act at first like a true placenta as a permanent conductor of nutri- ment, and not, as in the higher Mammalia, a mere storehouse to be resorted to occasionally. Indeed, so close is the union between the pa- rent and its offspring, and so imperfect the power of the foetus to abstract nourishment by suction, that Geoffroy St. Hilaire had recourse to the hypothesis that there was some vascular connexion. But the imperfect power of the foetus is compensated by the addition to the breast of a muscular apparatus, which propels forwards the nutritious juices of the mother into the alimentary cavity of the helpless * Page 26b'. t Diet, des Sciences Med. torn, xxxiv. p. 529. young one. From the interesting account which Mr. Morgan has given of these glands* in the Kangaroo, we shall extract the following- particulars. In this animal there are four teats, two of which, in the virgin state, are at the bottom of a narrow pouch in which they lie hid. It is to one of these teats that the marsupial foetus is attached immediately after its removal from the uterus, and their size, at first small in accord- ance with the minute mouth of the animal, in- creases with its growth. The muscular appa- ratus above alluded to embraces both the teat and the gland, and acts from the marsupial as its fixed point. The teat is further provided with a true vascular erectile tissue. The upper or smaller gland is perfectly similar in its organization to the larger, and, notwithstanding the doubts which Mr. Morgan expresses regarding its use, Mr. Owen observed in the instance which he has so carefully re- corded in the Philosophical Transactions for 1834, that the foetus was attached to the upper and not the lower nipples, and " that the nipple in use by the young one of the previous year was the right superior or anterior one." With regard to their minute structure it would appear from the figures of Mr. Morgan that the lacteal tubes originate in plexuses and not in cells, but the text is not very precise on this point. The consideration of the existence of these organs in those bird-like Mammalia, the Orni- thorhynchi, or duck-billed moles of Australia, is interesting. For the beak-bearing mouth of the adult would not lead us to expect the ex- istence of a gland, the secretion of which is usually obtained by the action of a soft mouth convertible into a sucking apparatus. Nevertheless a distinct mammary gland was described and figured by Meckel in 1826; and an organization of the lips and tongue of the young animal to correspond with it was sub- sequently described by Professor Owen in the Trans. Zool. Society, vol. i. p. 228, 1834. According to Meckel this gland is placed on the side of the abdomen between the pan- niculus carnosus, to which it adheres loosely, and the obliquus descendens abdominis,stretch- ing from the anterior and external margin of the pectoral muscle and inferior extremity of the sternum to the thigh. Its great size is merely one among the many instances which we meet of the comparative want of con- centration of individual organs in the lower as contrasted with the higher animals, for the secreting surface itself is much less extensive than in those animals in whom the whole organ is much less. The mammary glands of the Ornithorhyn- chus are peculiar for the absence of the nipple, a deficiency which is not met in any other class. In the Cetacea it is so completely bu- ried and concealed that it has been described as absent, but it exists perfectly formed, buried in its protecting fissure. The defi- ciency in the first and concealment in the last * Linn. Trans, vol. xvii. 1828.