ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 77 j oint, the interior of the articulation is occa- sionally injured ; that the crucial ligaments are stretched ; and that some of their fibres give way occasionally, breaking in their centres, or detached by their extremities from the bone. We lately had an example of a severe injury of the knee-joint, in which the anterior crucial ligament must have suffered great violence. The fibres of this structure did not give way, but the portion of the tibia to which they were naturally connected was torn up with the cru- cial ligament. We are not aware that such an accident as this has been before noticed, al- though it is probable that all complete luxa- tions of the knee-joint must be preceded by such a lesion. A young man, aged 25, was admitted into the Richmond Hospital under the care of Dr. Hutton, on the 11th of December, 1837, with an injury of the left knee-joint, which occurred when wrestling. Being intoxicated at the time his account of the manner in which the acci- dent occurred could not be depended upon. The joint was much swollen, very tense, and painful; no fracture, and no other deformity than that occasioned by the general swelling of the joint could be detected. The limb was maintained in the semiflexed position and on the outside. Inflammation and symptomatic fever ran very high, and the pain was excessive, especially on the least motion of the joint. On the eleventh day the pain and swelling had diminished. He could then raise the limb from the bed, but could not increase the amount of flexion. On the seventeenth day symptoms of diffuse inflammation set in ; these rapidly increased, and on the twenty-fourth day from the receipt of the injury he died. The knee-joint was found to contain eight ounces of purulent matter, in which flakes of lymph floated ; the synovial membrane was soft, pulpy, and vascular ; the circumference of the cartilages covering the condyles of the femur was in a slight degree absorbed. On flexing the joint, the spine and central portion of the head of the tibia, with a considerable portion of its left articulating surface, were found torn up from the rest of the bone in one piece, (Jig. 10,) and remained attached to the ante- rior crucial ligament. Rupture of the quadriceps extensor tendon from its attachment to the superior border of the patella.—The muscles and tendons around the knee-joint are very seldom the subject of accident. We have never heard of any acci- dental rupture of the tendons of the hamstring muscles ; we have, however, known some in- stances of rupture from the upper edge of the patella of the muscular and tendinous structure attached to the superior edge of this bone, con- sisting of the combined muscular and tendinous attachments, of the rectus, crurseus, and vasti muscles. A person who has met with this accident cannot rise from the ground, nor can he stand when raised without being sustained by two persons; when he attempts to lean his weight on the affected limb, it yields and bends forwards. On examining the knee we observe between the superior border of the Fig. 10. Anterior crucial ligament torn up with portion of tibia. patella and broken tendon a separation of one inch, which is diminished when we extend the leg, and increased much when we flex it. If we introduce our fingers into the bottom of this depression, we feel plainly the trochlea of the femur. In this case, as may be expected in all analogous accidents, there is much effu- sion of synovial fluid, which distends the inte- rior of the joint; and it is probable that the synovial membrane does not escape laceration. Patrick Dignam, set. 69, was admitted into the Richmond Surgical Hospital on the 15th of December, 1839, for a rupture of the tendon of the rectus cruris. He stated that about a week previously, while carrying on his back a load of about two hundred weight, he slipped and fell backwards, and in making a violent muscular effort to recover himself, he felt some- thing snap about his knee. He fell backwards, and was unable to rise without assistance. When placed on his sound limb, he found he could not elevate the affected one ; he could only flex it. Whenever he attempted to put the limb under him, it quite failed him, his knee giving way and becoming instantly flexed against his will. It was found that consider- able effusion had taken place into the knee- joint: the patella was raised up and seemed to float as it were on the synovial fluid and was very moveable; its entire outline could be easily ascertained ; and when the leg was fully flexed, the patella was still quite moveable in the lateral directions. Above the margin of the patella a considerable depression existed