MARSUPIALIA. 32? cessity for such a structure, for he dissected two small mammary foetuses of the Kangaroo for the especial purpose of showing the rela- tion of the larynx to the posterior nares. The epiglottis and arytenoid cartilages are elongated and approximated, and the rima glottidis is thus situated at the apex of a cone-shaped larynx, (Jig. 142, c,) which projects, as in the Cetacea, into the posterior nares, where it is closely embraced by the muscles of the soft palate. The air-passage (6) is thus completely separated from the fauces, and the injected milk passes in a divided stream on either side the larynx to the oesophagus. Fig. 142. Nipple, and head of Mammary Fattus, Kangaroo. Thus aided and protected by modifications of structure, both in the system of the mother and its own, designed with especial reference to each other's peculiar condition, and afford- ing, therefore, the most irrefragable evidence of creative foresight, the small offspring of the Kangaroo continues to increase, from suste- nance exclusively derived from the mother, for a period of about eight months. During this period the hind legs and tail assume a great part of their adult proportions; the muzzle elongates; the external ears and eyelids are completed; the hair begins to be developed at about the sixth month. At the eighth month the young Kangaroo may be seen frequently to protrude its head from the mouth of the pouch, and to crop the grass at the same time that the mother is browsing. Having thus acquired additional strength, it quits the pouch and hops at first with a feeble and vacillating gait, but continues to return to the pouch for occasional shelter and supplies of food till it has attained the weight of ten pounds. After this it will occasionally insert its head for the pur- pose of sucking, notwithstanding another foetus may have been deposited in the pouch ; for the latter, as we have seen, attaches itself to a dif- ferent nipple from the one which had been pre- viously in use. Mammary Organs.—In the young Marsu- pial, as Mr. Morgan was the first to observe in the Kangaroo, the nipples are not visible, but are indicated by the orifices of a kind of cutaneous preputial sheath in which they are concealed. M. Laurent has noticed a similar condition of the nipples in a mam- mary foetus of an Opossum and a Perameles. I have also observed it in the mammary fetus of a Petaurist and Dasyure: it is doubtless, therefore, common to all Marsupials. Once naturally protruded and the preputial sheath everted, the nipples, in the Kangaroo at least, continue external. They are longer and more slender than in other quadrupeds, and when in use generally present a terminal expansion (fig. 142, d). This part lies in a deep longitudinal fossa on the dorsum of the tongue (a, fig. 142); and the originally wide mouth of the uterine foetus is changed to a long tubular cavity, with a terminal sub- circular or triangular aperture just large enough to admit the nipple, to which the young Mar- supial thus very firmly adheres. In the Phascogale, in which the nipples are relatively larger than usual, and of a subcom- pressed clavate form, the young, when grown too large to be carried in the pouch, are dragged along by the mother, if she be pursued, hanging by the nipples. The number of nipples bears relation in the marsupial, as in the placental Mammalia, to that of the young brought forth at a birth; although from the circumstance of the produce of two gestations being for a short time suckled simultaneously, the nipples are never so few. Thus the uniparous Kangaroo has four nipples; of which the two anterior are generally those in use : the Petaurists, which bring forth two young at a birth, have also four nipples : the Thalycine has four nipples: the multiparous Virginian Opossum has thirteen nipples, six on each side and the thirteenth in the middle. In the Didelphys Opossum there are nine nipples, four on each side and one in the middle. The Didelphys dorsigera has the same number of nipples, although six is the usual number of young at a birth (fig. 143). In the Phas- cogale. penicillata there are eight nipples ar- ranged in a circle. The Perameles nasuta has the same number of nipples arranged in two slightly curved longitudinal rows; this Mar- supial has three or four young at a birth. The nipple in all the Marsupials is imper- forate at the centre ; the milk exudes from six to ten minute orifices arranged round the apex. It increases in size with the growth of the mammary fetus appended to it. The mammary gland has the same essential structure as in the ordinary Mammalia; it has no cavity or udder; its chief peculiarity arises from its being embraced by the muscle, already noticed, which has the same origin and course as the cremaster muscle in the male. Marsupial pouch.—The development of the pouch is in an inverse ratio to that of the uteri and directly as that of the complicated vagins : thus it is rudimental in the Uorsigerons Opos- sum, which has the longest uteri and the sim- plest vagina;: we may conclude therefore that the young undergo a greater amount of deve- lopment in the womb in this and allied species.* 5 Is there any essential modification of the mem- bvanesof the ovum in these small Marsupials? The means of determining this question are most de- sirable.