NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Comparative Anatomy.) 617 wards on each side above the hyoid apparatus, and joins all the ventral branches of the other spinal nerves in succession, as its dorsal branch did along the back. This ventral branch of the second pair is very conspicuous, and may be easily traced along the line formed by the inferior extremities of the ventral divisions of the muscular bundles, the ventral branches of the other nerves joining it at acute angles between each bundle. It may be traced be- yond the anus, but is lost sight of near the extremity of the tail. Twigs undoubtedly pass from the spinal and lateral nerves towards the abdominal surface of the body, but, on account of their minuteness, and the difficulty of de- tecting them in detached portions of the abdominal membrane, they could not be satis- factorily seen. " When a portion of the spinal cord is examined under a sufficient magnifying power, it is seen to be composed entirely of nucleated cells, very loosely attached to one another, but enclosed in an excessively delicate covering of pia mater. The cells are not arranged in any definite direction, except in the middle third of the cord, where they assume a longitudinal linear direction, but without altering their primitive spherical form. The black pigment, formerly mentioned as existing more particu- larly on the upper surface and groove, is observed to be more abundant opposite the origin of the nerves; and, as it is regularly arranged in this manner in dark masses along the anterior and posterior thirds of the cord, the organ in these places, on superficial inspec- tion, resembles much the abdominal ganglionic cord of an annulose animal. Along the middle third the pigment is not so regular, but appears in spots at short intervals. When any portion of the cord, however, is slightly compressed, and microscopically examined, it becomes evi- dent that there is, along the groove and mesial line of its upper surface, a band, consisting of cells of a larger size than those composing the rest of the organ. Some of these cells only are filled with black pigment, but all of them contain a fluid of a brown tint, which renders the tract of large cells distinctly visible. When the compression is increased the cells burst; and the fluid which flows from the central tract is seen to contain jet-black granules, which may be detected as they escape from the cells. " The nerves consist of primitive fibres, of a cylindrical shape, with faint longitudinal striae. The primitive fibres of a trunk pass off into a branch, in the usual way, without dividing; and, where the trunks join the spinal cord, the primitive fibres are seen to approach close to it, but without passing into it. The greater part of the slightly protuberant origin consisting of the nucleated cells of the cord, with a few pigment cells interspersed, the exact mode of termination of the central ex- tremities of the primitive nervous fibres could not be detected." We hope we may be excused for quoting the following additional remarks. " One of the most remarkable peculiarities in the Lancelet is the absence of the brain. Iletzius, indeed, describes the spinal marrow as terminating considerably behind the anterior extremity of the chorda dorsalis, in a brain which exhibits scarcely any dilatation; but careful examination of the dissection of my own specimen, which I have also submitted to the inspection of Dr. John Reid, and of other competent judges, has convinced me that the spinal cord, which may be traced with the greatest ease to within l-16th of an inch of the extremity of the chorda dorsalis, does not dilate into a brain at all. It may be urged that we ought to consider the anterior half of the middle third of the spinal marrow, where it is most developed, to be the brain, and all that portion of the chorda dorsalis which is in con- nection with the branchial cavity, as the cra- nium. That this does not express the true relation of the parts, is evident from the fact, that this portion of the cord, to its very extre- mity, gives off nerves, which are too numerous to be considered as cerebral, but more espe- cially from the mode of distribution of the first and second pairs, which, in my opinion, proves the anterior pointed extremity to be the representative of the brain of the more highly developed vertebrata. A brain of such sim- plicity necessarily precludes, on anatomical grounds alone, the existence of organs of vision and of hearing. These special organs, deve- loped in the vertebrata at least, in a direct relation with the cephalic integuments and the brain, could not exist, even in the form of appreciable germs, in the Lancelet. The black spot which Retzius took for the rudiment of an eye may probably have been, what also deceived me at first, a portion of the black mud which floats about in the branchial cavity, and which adheres obstinately to the parts in the neigh- bourhood of the oral filaments. The first pair of nerves, although very minute, in accordance with the slight development of the parts about the snout, and the want of special organs of sense, might, from their position and relations, be considered as corresponding to the trifacial in the higher vertebrata. The second pair appears to be the vagus, not only from its distribution as a longitudinal filament on each side of the body, as in other fishes, but also from its relations to the hyoid apparatus and branchial cavity, to which division of organs the eighth pair of fishes is specially devoted. The distribution of a branch of this nerve, however, along the base of the dorsal fin, and the course of the posterior part of the main branch, would appear to shew that this nerve, which I have provisionally denominated the vagus, is, in fact, the trifacial, which, in the higher fishes, is not only distributed to all the fins, but holds exactly the same relations to the dorsal and anal fins, and to the spinal nerves, as the nerve now under consideration in the Lancelet. " The peculiarities in the structure of the spinal cord are not less remarkable than those of its configuration. It is difficult to under- stand, according to the received opinions on the subject, how a spinal cord destitute of