38 IRRITABILITY. " The foregoing experiments prove, at least, that when the communication of the nerves with the brain is wholly cut off, they gradually lose the power of exciting the muscles to con- traction, while the muscles lose their irritability. The result would, however, have been still more decisive if, in place of a single pair of plates, a small galvanic battery had been em- ployed to stimulate the nerves and muscles. That, and that alone, would have enabled us to determine with certainty whether all the power of the muscles, in two of the cases, had been lost. The experiments as they were made, however, prove distinctly enough the necessity of communication with the brain for the pre- servation of nervous and muscular power. We may from them conclude also that if, after the division of a nerve, the excitability of the lower portion, and the irritability of the muscles are restored, the nerve has itself been completely reproduced ; and that this has not been the case if the nerve and muscle do not retain their vital properties." I may here observe, that an experiment, si- milar to those of Piofessor Muller and Dr. Sticker, in which Sir Astley Cooper assisted the late Dr. Haighton, was made in this coun- try many years ago, but never published. The sciatic nerve was divided in a dog. In a few days the lower portion had lost its power of exciting muscular contraction. These statements appear, then, sufficiently opposed to each other; how shall we explain or reconcile them ? Before I proceed to discuss this question, I must beg the attention of the reader to a third series of observations and experiments, in a certain sense at variance with both those which have been detailed. My own attention was first drawn to this interesting point by the fact, well known to physicians, that if we administer strychnine to patients affected with paralysis, it is frequently the paralytic limbs which first manifest the pe- culiar influence of this powerful remedy. M. Fouquier has, I believe, too hastily generalized this effect of strychnine on the muscles of pa- ralytic limbs. And how well do I remember the same remark being made by M. Louis, as, in our visit round his wards at La Pitie, we came to a case in point. From that moment I did not cease to revolve the question in my mind, and to devise modes of observation and experiment to solve it. Certainly the conclu- sion of M. Segalas d'Etchepare, in regard to it, is any thing but satisfactory. M. Segalas ob- serves:— " Ces experiences reunies autorisent done a. conclure que le tetanos produit par la noix vo- mique a pour condition premiere de son deve- loppement la presence du poison dans le sang, et que les phenomenes qui l'accompagnent sont dus a Faction anormale de ce fluide sur le sys- teme nerveux. " Cette maniere de considerer Faction de la noix vomique donne un moyen simple d'expli- quer les efiets de cette substance chez Fhomme, et particulierement ce fait si remarquable de la contraction des muscles paralyses plus prompte et plus energique que celle des muscles sains, fait observe d'abord par M. Fouquier,* et con- stat^ depuis par tant de praticiens du premier ordre. II est facile, en efiet, de concevoir que les muscles sains, soumis a la fois a Fempire du cerveau et a Faction du poison, resistent a celle-ci plus que les muscles paralyses, qui, soustraits a Finfluence cerebrale, ne sont plus commandes que par le poison." Upon these observations of M. Segalas, M. Ollivier remarks—" Mais s'il en est ainsi, com- ment se rendre raison d'un fait observe depuis long-temps par tous les praticiens, et sur lequel je viens d'appeler Fattention, e'est que la noix vomique cause souvent de violentes douleurs clans les membres paralyses, sans apporter aucun trouble dans les parties saines ? Pour- quoi cette action speciale sur les seuls organes paralyses ? et, d'un autre cote, la douleur percue ne prouve-t-elle pas que les parties paralysers ne sont point isolees entierement du centre nerveux, et qu'ainsi ce ne peut etre a cette inconstance qu'on doive attnbuerla locali- sation singuliere des eflets de la strychnine ?" f It will soon be seen that this view, like a former one, is far too general, far too indiscri- minate—that it is not in every case of paralysis, that the strychnine would first display its in- fluence on the paralytic limbs. Meantime, however, I figured to myself the fact of the strychnine acting on the spinal marrow, and diffusing its power equally along the nerves, to the right hand and to the left, to the muscles to which they proceed respectively: and I asked myself the question—Is the difference observed in its ultimate effects on those muscles, the power being obviously the same, owing to a difference in the degree of the irritability of the muscular fibre itself ? Is the irritability of that fibre actually angmented? If so, the pheno- menon would be explained! I waited with anxiety for opportunities of submitting this question to the decision of ex- periment. This I entrusted, in the first in- stance, to my young friend and intelligent pupil, Mr. Dolman. The result was as I an- ticipated. A little child, aged two years, was perfectly paralytic of the left arm. The slight- est shock of galvanism was directed to be ap- plied which should produce an obvious effect. It was uniformly observed that the paralytic limb was agitated by a degree of galvanic energy which produced no effect on the healthy limb. A similar patient, with paralysis of one leg, was subjected to the same experiment by my friend and former pupil Mr. W. F. Barlow, and with the same result. I repeated the trial on several patients af- fected with hemiplegia, at my own house, uni- formly with the same event: the paralytic limbs were always moved by an influence which was lower than that required to affect the healthy limb, or if both limbs were agitated, it was uniformly the paralytic limb which was more shaken than the other. * Memoire sur Femploi de la noix vomique dans les paralysies, par M. Fouquier, 1815. t Traite de la Moelle Epinieie, 1827, p. 841.