NERVOUS CENTRES. (IJum N Anatomy. The Encephalon.) 673 VOL. III. 2 x of the parts. The whole of that portion of the cerebral hemisphere which is situate behind the Sylvian fissure should be called the pos- terior lobe. The hollow space between the middle lobes of the brain corresponds to the principal ante- rior reservoir of subarachnoid fluid. It is situate immediately above the Sella Turcica, and, indeed, the brain is, as it were, tied to the pituitary body, which is firmly lodged in this excavation of the sphenoid bone, by a funnel- shaped hollow process of nervous matter, called pituitary process or tube, (m, l,fig- 382), which, enveloped in a sheath of arachnoid membrane, is inserted into it by its small extremity. This space communicates with the anterior fissure in the middle, and with the Sylvian fissure on either side. Commencing at the anterior fissure and pas- sing backwards, we notice the following parts, to see which clearly it is necessary that the adherent pia mater and the arachnoid should have been previously carefully dissected away. The anterior fissure is limited by the anterior fold or reflection of the corpus callosum : behind this we find a thin layer of a lightish grey matter, which, like a triangular plate, seems to stop up the third ventricle at its in- ferior surface. This, indeed, which is called tuber cinereum, constitutes a principal part of the floor of that ventricle. The pituitary pro- cess is continuous with and is probably an extension of it. A probe introduced into the cut extremity of this process will be found to pass readily into the third ventricle. Immediately in front of the pituitary process, the union of two white bands, which form la- teral boundaries to a large portion of the tuber cinereum, the optic tracts, takes place along the middle line. This forms the commissure of the optic nerves, from which these nerves diverge. Behind the pituitary process the tuber cinereum extends back to two small pisiform bodies of an extremely white colour on their sur- face, corpora mamillaria or albicantia (m,fig. 382). These, we shall see by-and-bye, are con- nected with one of the most important of the cerebral commissures, namely, the fornix. Behind the mamillary bodies we find a deep depression into which the pia mater sinks, car- rying with it very numerous bloodvessels. This depression lies between two thick processes of fibrous matter, which, traced from below, pass upwards and outwards, expanding as they advance, and upon which each hemisphere is placed (to use Reil's simile) like a mushroom on its stalk. These are the crura cerebri, the peduncles of the cerebral hemispheres. The depression above described, which separates them, is the intcrcrural or interpeduncular space. When the pia mater has been removed from it, its surface appears cribriform from the perforations of the numerous minute vessels which penetrate it; it has been named by Vicq d'Azyrsubstantia' perforata media. The nervous matter which forms the floor of this space has a greyishhue,and connects the crura to each other, like a bridge, whence the designation pons Tarini. At the interpeduncular space we see the third pair of nerves emerging from their connexion with the crura cerebri. The inner margin of each middle lobe of the brain is separated from the corresponding crus cerebri by a fissure which passes from behind forwards, and terminates in the fissure of Syl- vius. If this fissure be followed backwards, it will be found to become continuous with a transverse fissure which separates the cerebrum from the cerebellum, and corresponds to the posterior edge of the corpus callosum. A con- tinuity is thus established between the lateral and the transverse fissures, whence results one great fissure of semicircular form, the concavity of which is directed forwards. This is the great cerebral fissure of Bichat, or the great transverse or horizontal fissure (Cruveilhier.) It may be described as commencing at the fissure of Sylvius on one side, turning round the oppo- site cerebral peduncle, and ending at the oppo- site Sylvian fissure. The anterior and lateral portions of this fissure have already been no- ticed as the situations at which the pia mater enters the brain to form the choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles. And it may be remarked here, how freely the subarachnoid fluid may pass along this fissure from before backwards. Pa- rallel to this fissure we find the fourth pair of nerves as it passes to its point of exit from the cranium. Not the least interesting and important of the objects presented at this central portion of the base of the brain is that remarkable arterial anastomosis, called the circle of Willis. This will be more particularly described by-and-bye; but it may be stated here, that the anterior bifurcation of the basilar artery is immediately behind the interpeduncular space, on each side of which the posterior cerebral artery passes for a short distance. The posterior communicating artery is parallel to the inner edge of the middle lobe; the subdivision of the carotid corresponds to the commencement of the Sylvian fissure; and the anterior com- municating artery is at right angles with the longitudinal fissure immediately behind the anterior reflection of the corpus callosum. This anastomosis of arteries is bathed in the liquid which occupies the subarachnoid space in this situation. The tentorium cerebelli is situate on a plane a little beneath that of the middle segment of the base of the encephalon just described. It forms a septum between the posterior lobes of the ce- rebral hemispheres, which are continuous with the middle segment, and the posterior segment of the encephalon, which we now proceed to describe. The posterior segment, as occupying the pos- terior fossa of the cranium, is on a level con- siderably below that of the middle segment. The parts which are deserving of more par- ticular notice here, are, proceeding from before, the pons Varolii (w, fig. 382), the inferior and anterior surface of the mesocephale, which is situate immediately behind the interpeduncular space, the crura cerebri appearing to emerge just above its anterior border. From its posterior edge the medulla oblongata (o) extends down-