1C2 ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. lesqnelles ces os out ete interesscs.'' The re- moval of haemorrhoids and operations upon the uterus are sometimes followed by abscess of the liver, a circumstance which is easily expli- cable upon the principles so clearly demon- strated by this author. An excellent instance of secondary abscess of larger size than usual has been kindly fur- nished to me by my friend and colleague Mr. Rutherford Alcock, who, from his official posi- tion in Spain and Portugal during the recent struggles, has had much experience in injuries to the head. A man received a bayonet wound in the scalp, and died upon the fourteenth day after his admission into the hospital. Upon inspection there was observed thickening of the dura mater and a small quantity of matter upon the pia mater. No pus was discovered in the lungs, but a large abscess was found occupying the greater part of the right lobe. A statistical report from a work upon gun-shot wounds by the same author is also interesting. " Of scalp wounds, with and without abrasion, there were sixty-one; two only died, and one only presented disease of the liver; the other died from an attack of erysipelas." The pathological changes which take place in the liver in these cases are, in the first instance, effusion of blood and lymph and induration around the inflamed vein ; secondly, a secretion of a yellow concrete pus into the ninute veins and among the lobules, giving to the liver, as Cruveilhier remarks, a granite-like appearance. In the next place the pus collects into small abscesses lodged in irregular cells, which increase in size by continued secretion and by communication with other cells. All these collections of matter are surrounded by a congested circle, which gives them a peculiar and characteristic appearance. After having existed for some time Cruveilhier has observed that the pus becomes converted into a concrete mass, very closely resembling the matter of scrofulous tubercle. h. Tubercle in the liver is a disease of rare occurrence, and has seldom been observed independently of the existence of similar depo- sitions in the lungs and other organs of the body, and of general indications of a scrofulous diathesis. When present, it exists in the form of small rounded tubercles, generally numerous, and varying in size from that of a millet-seed to a hazel-nut. They are composed of the soft cheesy or curdy deposit which is characteristic of this disease, and have a tendency to a brownish colour. The tuberculous matter is deposited in the tissue of the lobules by infil- tration, and the lobules immediately surround- ing the tumours are compressed and congested. The obstruction to the circulation in the organ being general on account of the number of the tubercles, the entire liver is more or less con- gested. i. Scirrhus.—Carcinoma affects the liver under a variety of forms, but appears most frequently as tubercles of different size and consistence. These tubercles are more fre- quent than those of scrofulous origin, and are generally accompanied by symptoms denoting a cancerous diathesis, and by the existence at the same time of similar tumours in other parts of the body. In their earliest development in the liver nearly all carcinomatous tumours pre- sent the same characters, resembling small, whitish, semi-opaque patches, occupying the tissue of one or of several of the lobules. As they increase in size they put on certain peculiar appearances, which have gained for them a subdivision into species and varieties. I do not intend in this place to enter into the ar- rangements proposed by authors, but will briefly describe the most striking varieties that have fallen beneath my own examination. The sim- plest of these tumours has been termed scir- rhous tubercle, a name which appears particu- larly applicable from its resemblance in cha- racters and structure to the same form of tu- mour occurring in other parts of the body. Commencing like the carcinomatous tumour generally in a semi-opaque patch, the outline of the lobules is for some time distinctly percep- tible through its area, but at a later period the centre of the patch becomes quite opaque, and presents a cartilaginous hardness nd creaking sound when divided with the knife. The cir- cumference is gradually diffused in the sur- rounding textures, and the progressive increase of the tumour seems to take place by the se- cretion of a milky albuminous fluid into the meshes of the lobular venous plexuses. The circulation in these plexuses is at first unim- peded, but by the increase and induration of the secretion it is gradually arrested, and the vessels obliterated The obliterated vessels give rise to the appearance of small cells, in which the carcinomatous matter is deposited, and the larger areas are produced by the tissue of the capsules of the lobules variously dis- torted from their original form by the increased deposition. As the tumours become more and more large, white lines, formed by compressed cellular tissue, are observed radiating from the centre towards the circumference. When seen upon the surface of the liver, the scirrhous tubercle appears flat, or very slightly depressed towards the centre. In a preparation of this form of tubercle now before me, the whole tumour is slightly raised above the surface; it presents no central depression, is cartilaginous in appearance, and has an irregular outline. Its section is dense and hard like cartilage, with no appearance of vessels, and of that pearly and semitransparent whiteness which is generally observed in scirrhous tubercle, particularly in the variety which this prepara- tion illustrates. Sometimes these tubera ate small and very numerous, of a yellowish or brownish colour, and have a great activity of increase; the cells in which they are contained are thick and of larger size, and the albumi- nous secretion less firm than in the preceding variety. Occasionally they are reddened in the centre by the effusion of blood, from the con- gestion of unobliterated vessels, and some- times by the continuation, through the tumours, of dilated vessels, which supply them with nutrition. In their enlarged state they fre- quently coalesce and give rise to an irregular