338 MICROSCOPE. an equal magnifying power, and the aperture would admit of great extension without a pro- portional increase in the spherical and chro- matic aberrations. This suggestion has been carried into practice with complete success as regards the performance of lenses executed on this plan; but the difficulties of various kinds in the way of their execution are such as to render them very expensive; and as they are not superior to the combination now to be de- scribed, they have latterly been quite super- seded by it. This combination was first proposed by Dr, Wollaston, and is known as his doublet. It consists of two plano-convex lenses, whose focal lengths are in the proportion of one to three, or nearly so, having their convex sides directed towards the eye, and the lens of shortest focal length nearest the object. In Dr. Wollaston's original combination no stop was interposed, and the distance between the lenses was left to be determined by experiment in each case. A great improvement was subse- quently made, however, by the introduction of a stop between the lenses, and by the divi- sion of the power of the smaller lens between two; this is due to Mr. Holland.* By these means a combination may be produced, in which the errors are made to correct each other so nearly that all the advantages of a wide aperture with a very short focus may be gained. The general nature of the performance of a doublet or triplet may be understood from the adjoining figure, (jig.160,) in which L 0 L' is Fig. 160. u Diagram of the passage of rays through a doublet. the object, P a portion of the pupil, and D D the stop. The pencils of light from the two extremities, L L', of the object cross each other in the stop, and consequently pass through the two lenses on the opposite sides * Trans, of Soc. of Arts, vol. xlix. of the axis O P ; so that each becomes af- fected by opposite errors, which to a certain extent balance and correct one another. To take the pencil L, for instance, which enters the eye at R B, K B; it is bent to the right at the first lens, and to the left at the second ; and as each refraction alters the direction of the blue rays more than of the red, and more- over, as the blue rays fall nearer the margin of the second lens, where the increased power of the refraction, consequent upon the distance from the centre, compensates in some degree for the greater focal length of the second lens, the blue and red rays will emerge very nearly parallel, and are therefore colourless to the eye. At the same time the spherical aberration has been diminished by the circumstance that the side of the pencil, which passes one lens nearest the axis, passes the other nearest the margin. This explanation applies only, how- ever, to the pencils near the extremities of the object. The central pencil, it is obvious, will pass through the same relative portions of the two lenses, and only an imperfect correction will therefore take place, and of those issuing from the intermediate points the amount of correction will vary with their proximity to the centre or to the circumference. Hence a dou- blet is not a perfect magnifier; but it is very much superior to a single lens, and may be so constructed as to show many of the usual test- objects,—especially those in which a moderate amount of penetration is sufficient, provided the definition be good,—in a very beautiful manner. Its angle of aperture, however, by which is meant the angle of the apex of the conical pencils of rays admitted by it, cannot be advantageously increased much beyond 40° or 45°. But when the smaller lens is replaced by a combination of two others, so as to form a triplet, their joint aberration is so much less Fig. 161. A B_ Diagram to illustrate angle of aperture. A, lens vvith small opening, admitting only pencils of rays diverging at an angle of 15°; B, lens with large opening, admitting pencils of 50°. that it is more counterbalanced by the third lens placed above the stop. In this manner the transmission of a still larger angular pencil, —even to 65°,—is rendered compatible with distinctness; and great penetrating power is thus combined with perfect definition, as well as with brilliancy of illumination. For the purposes of anatomical investigation, as we shall hereafter state, we consider good doublets and triplets, where circumstances admit of their employment, superior to any other kind of magnifying instrument. The principal disadvantages which the use of them involves are the close proximity to the object required by their very short focus when a high