MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 532 quired for flight; the corresponding ganglia contained within the thorax exhibit a size and development proportioned to that of the mus- cles they are destined to animate; and the winged Insect becomes thus competent to the exhibition of feats of strength and activity not to be paralleled in any other race of living beings. On taking a survey of the molluscous or of the vertebrate divisions of the animal creation, the same great law is every where apparent, and we are reminded, on all hands, that a strict parallelism exists between the condition of the locomotive system, whatever may be its cha- racter, and the perfection of the nervous appa- ratus, whereby muscular movements are con- trolled and directed. As a necessary conse- quence of the above intimate and inseparable relation, which invariably exists between the organs of motion and those of innervation ; and allowing, as modern Zoologists all admit, that the nervous system, whatever may be its condition, is to be regarded as the ruling pri- mary portion of the animal economy, we are naturally led, therefore, in reviewing the mus- cular system generally, to take this great phy- siological axiom as our guide, and beginning with the simplest forms of life to trace the first appearances and successive complication of the motor organs as we advance through the different classes of animated beings. In the Cuvierian classification of the Regne Animal all the lower animals, originally con- founded under the general name of Zoophytes, are included in one great division, called Radiata, from the circumstance that many forms of these animals exhibit more or less of a radiated arrangement in the general outline of their bodies. For the term Radiata, in the article Animal Kingdom of this Cyclo- peedia, Dr. Grant has substituted that of " Cycloneura, " acknowledging, at the same time, that the name selected by him was of equally partial application, and conse- quently unsatisfactory; inasmuch as, in the great majority of the animals ranged under it, so far from any nerves being visible, " disposed in a circular manner around the oral extremity of the body," not a trace or vestige of nervous fibre is by any means discoverable; and, moreover, many of the animals thus grouped under one denomination are so remote and dissimilar from each other in every feature of their economy, that it is impossible to regard them even as being organized according to the same type. As regards the condition of their muscular system, the most striking differences are at once perceptible ; the Sponges, the Polyps properly so called,* the Poli/gastrica, and the Aealephce, have the texture of their bodies so soft and gelatinous, that not a mus- * In the article referred to, polypiform animals, with ciliated tentacula around the mouth, are classed with the Polypifera. Recent observations made by Lister, Milne Edwards, Ehrenberg, and Dr. Arthur Farre, have, however, since shewn such creatures to be so far removed in their general organization from the true Polyps, that they now consiilute a distinct class under the title of Bryostoa. cular fibre is by any means apparent in any of them ; while, on the other hand, the Ecfiino- denns have muscular systems constructed upon exceedingly elaborate and complex principles. Taking the nervous system for our guide, it is at once evident that the presence of nerves and of muscles goes hand in hand, and the Radiata of Cuvier or the Cycloneura of Grant is at once separable into two great groups, one divi- sion being without either visible nerves or mus- cles, while the other is found to possess both. Classifying them, therefore, according to this principle, and adding to the list of radiated animals some which, in the article Animal Kingdom, have, as we think, been erroneously included in the Diploneurose (articulated) sub- kingdom, they readily range themselves under the following denominations :— Acrita. Animals with neither nerves nor muscles. Agastrica. Polypiphera. Polygastrica. Acalephae. Sterelmintha. Nematoneura—Animals possessed both of nerves and muscles, either without percep- tible ganglionic centres of innervation, or where these do exist, they are extremely rudimentary, and not arranged in any parallel series. This division will include Ccelelmintha, Bryozoa, Rotifera, Epizoa, Echinodermata. The term Agastrica is here proposed to in- clude those lowest forms of animal existence which obviously form the transition from the Vegetable to the Animal Kingdom ; many of them indeed seeming rather to belong to the former than to the latter division of the orga- nized world. Such are, for example, the con- fervoid animalcules, which, in their structure and mode of reproduction, are evidently nearly allied to vegetables, although from the seem- ingly spontaneous movements of which some, the Oscillatoria>, &c. are capable, they have been claimed by Zoologists as belonging to their de- partment. The Sponges (Porifera, Grant) are equally allied to vegetables in the nature of the living parenchyma that invests and forms their porous or reticulated skeletons; and most inti- mately related to these,notwithstanding the diffe- rent texture of their framework, are many of the lithophytous Corallines and Fungia, the solid portions of their skeleton being in like manner deposited in an organized soft tissue, the animal nature of which is by no meansas yet clearly esta- blished. All the above plant-like forms agree, however, in one grand and striking circum- stance,—they are devoid of any stomachal or digestive cavity, a feature of their economy which of itself would be sufficient to raise a doubt whether they are strictly entitled to be regarded as animals or classed with the vegeta- ble creation.