243 MAMMALIA. cult to follow the opinion of the great naturalist of France, who, ignorant of the true nature of relations of analogy, imagined that the Psitta- ceous tribe of Birds ought to occupy the first step in the scale of nature below Man ; but we cannot help adopting the notion of Linnaeus in the' Systema Natura,' that although not near him in construction, they are yet analogous to him in various important respects. And, adopt- ing this notion, we must place the whele order of Insessor-es, to which Psittacus belongs, op- posite to the Primates, of which Man forms the type. " The analogies existing between birds of prey and carnivorous quadrupeds having been noticed by Aristotle, who called both groups Gampsonucha, were enlarged upon by Plu- tarch. Among a host of moderns who have been struck with the resemblance, I may par- ticularly mention Linnaeus, who in his ' Sys- tema Natura ' has expressly called his Acci- pitres ' Peris analogi;' and Buffon, who has treated the subject at length and with his usual eloquence. I conceive, therefore, that no one can object to the propriety of my placing the Pertz opposite to the Ruptores. " The analogy between Aquatic Birds and Aquatic Mammalia scarcely requires the men- tion of the authority of Linnaeus to make it be granted. It is indeed so evident, that Her- mann, according to his custom, takes it for a relation of affinity. In both orders the ante- rior appendages of the vertebral axis dwindling into fins, and the two undivided posterior ap- pendages being placed so far behind on the axis as to show that both were intended for motion in the water rather than on land, are circumstances of themselves sufficient to autho- rize the placing of the Cetacea opposite to the Natatores. " Two orders still remain in each class to be considered : the Glires and Ungulata among the Mammalia; and among Birds, the Itasores and G?-allatores. The relations of analogy pointed out by Linnaeus between Mammalia and Birds are, as Hermann has observed, not always correct; and his errors have arisen from the misfortune of his not detecting the natural group of Aristotle and Ray, which the latter has called Ungulata.* Having only been able to seize Aristotle's subdivisions of this group, he lost the parallelism of analogy, and fell, as I shall hereafter show, into very glaring mis- takes. In the ' Systema Naturte,' however, he has mentioned that very striking analogy which appears between his groups of Gralla and Bruta ; that is, according to the parallelism of analogy, between the orders of Grallatores and Ungulata, since the Bruta, as we have seen, do not form an order, but only a natural subdi- * In mating this assertion, Mr. Macleay ap- pears to have overlooked the tabular arrangement prefixed by Linnams to the more extended charac- ters of his orders of Mammalia. The only fault in the construction of his Unipdata is the exclusion of the elephant from that division ; for with respect to the edentate Bruta, Linnaeus and Cuvier correctly interpreted nature in placing them among the Un- guiculate Mammalia. vision of the Ungulata. That this analogy is demonstrably true, I deduce from the following facts. Of their respective classes, the orders of Ungulata and Grallatores contain examples of the longest legs in proportion to the body,— witness Camelopardalis arid Hamantopus. Both orders present us, in groups not exactly aquatic, with instances of the toes soldered together, as in the Horse ; or connected together by a web, as in the Flamingo. Both orders present us with the greatest elongation of muzzle or facies, —witness Myrmecophaga, or Antilope (particu- larly A. Bubalus L.), and Scvlopax ; and also with the most depressed form of muzzle,— witness Hippopotamus and Platalea, which genera also afford us the truest specimens of Wading Vertebrata. In both orders we have the most elongated claws,—witness Megalonyx and Parru. Both orders afford us the swiftest animals in running,—as the Horse and Tachy- dromus; and the most pugnacious on account of love,—as the Bull and Machetes. The Bull moreover and the Bator (or Bostaurus, for hence comes the bird's name,) afford us the loudest and hoarsest voice of their respective orders : where we have also the most remark- able instances of the upper and under mandi- bles touching each other merely at their base and point; as Myrmecophaga, or the whole of the t« p,tv ovx a.ft(po$oiiT(x. of Aristotle, and Anastomus Illig- Both orders exhibit orna- mental appendages to the head,—as the antlers of the Stag and the crown of the Crane ; and both orders afford us the only instances of true horns,—as Bos or Rhinoceros, and Palamedea L. To see a hundred instances of resemblance, it is only necessary to walk into a museum. I shall therefore only further say, that both orders contain polygamous animals, are generally gre- garious, and more graminivorous than granivo- rous, being essentially inhabitants of marshes and savannahs. Thus then, with Linnaeus, I place the Bruta, or rather the whole order of Ungulata to which they belong, opposite to the Grallatores. " Four orders in each class being now dis- posed of, it follows by parallelism of analogy, that the Glires ought to be placed opposite to the Rasores. But setting theory aside,—is this position true in fact ?* " Linnaeus, from the above-mentioned error in his series of affinity, considered the Rasores to be analogous to his group of Pccora. But this group, according to Aristotle and Ray, is only a subdivision of Ungulata, which have, I consider, been now proved to be analogous to the Grallatores. If, therefore, Linnaeus be right in making his Bruta analogous to the order of Wading Birds, it follows that his Pecora must be so also. * " The ancient name of Struthio Camelus, as well as the form and habits of the Ostrich, show in- deed a relation of analogy to the Camel ; but then we are to recollect, in the first place, that the Os- trich is at the osculant point or confines of the orders of Grallce and Rasores ■ and secondly, that such slight variations of the parallelism of analogy often appear, although I think it possible that even these are subject to rule." R 2