328 MARSUP1ALIA. Fig. 143. Female Didelphys dorsigera, with young and pouch- In the Kangaroos and Potoroos, which have the shortest uteri and longest vaginal tubes and cul-de-sac, the marsupial pouch is wide and deep. It is composed of a duplicature of the integument, of which the external fold is sup- ported by longitudinal fasciculi of the panni- culus carnosus converging below to be im- planted in the symphysis pubis. The mouth of the sac is closed by a strong cutaneous sphincter muscle. The interior of the pouch is almost naked : a few hairs grow around the nipple : it is lubricated by a brown sebaceous secretion. The mouth of the pouch is directed forwards in most Marsupials: the reversed position in the Perameles and Chseropus, where the mouth is directed towards the vulva, has been already noticed. M. Laurent* has made the interesting observation of the presence of a rudimental pouch in the male mammary foetus of an Opossum : he could not discern equal traces of the nipples: that of the pouch is * Annales d'Anatomie et de Physiologie, 1839, p. 237. soon obliterated, as the scrotum increases in size. In the male Thylacine the rudimental mar- supium is retained, in the form of a broad triangular depression or shallow inverted fold of the abdominal integument, from the middle of which the peduncle of the scrotum is con- tinued. In the female the orifice of the capa- cious pouch is situated nearer the posterior than the anterior boundary of that receptacle. A few observations on the claims of the Mar- supialia to be regarded as a natural group of ani- mals may not inappropriately conclude this ar- ticle. Cuvier, in 1816, first separated the mar- supial from the other unguiculate quadrupeds, to form a distinct group, which he describes as forming, with the Monotremes, a small collateral chain, all the genera of which, while they are connected together by the peculiarities of the generative system, at the same time correspond in their dentition and diet, some to the Car- nivora, others to the Rodentia, and a third tribe to the Edentata. M. de Blainville, in the tables of the Animal Kingdom which he published in the same year, 1816, constituted a distinct sub-class of Cuvier's " small col- lateral chain " of mammals, and gave to the sub-class the name of Didelphes in antithesis to that of Monodelphes, by which he distin- guished the Placental Mammalia. The class or sub-class ' Implacentalia,' of which the Marsupialia form one order, also in- cludes a second order, the Monotremata, which can only be termed ' Didelphes' in the sense in which the word is applicable to many of M. de Blainville's ' Monodelphes,' i. e. in re- ference to their having two distinct uterine tubes. But the merit of the primary division of the Mammalia into Placentalia and Im- placentalia does not rest upon the appro- priateness of the terms, but upon the esta- blishment, by a long series of anatomical re- searches, of a primary division of the Mam- miferous class, which before was a mere hy- pothesis. Many acute and sound-thinking naturalists refused their assent to the views of Cuvier and De Blainville, which, as they were supported by a knowledge of the conformity of organiza- tion of only the generative system in the Mar- supials, were unquestionably defective in the evidence essential to enforce conviction. The best arguments for returning to the older views of classification, and for distributing the Mar- supial genera, according to the affinities appa- rently indicated by their dental and locomotive systems,amongthedifferentorders ofthe Placen- tal Mammalia, have been advanced by Mr. Ben- nett, the accomplished author of the Gardens and Menagerie of the Zoological Society de- lineated, (vol. i. p. 265); and these have been repeated with approbation, and adopted by later systematists, as by Mr. Swainson. The discovery of the true affinities of the Marsupialia could only flow from an insight into their whole organization, and the question which Mr. Bennett proposes with reference to the genus Phaacolomys, " What is there of im-