35 IRRITABILITY. must soon cease in consequence, from want of a supply of blood. These facts prove that arterial blood is the necessary stimulus of the left side of the heart, its irritability being low ; but that venous blood is a sufficient stimulus of the right, from its higher irritability : the phenomena plainly flow from the law, that the quantity of respiration and the degree of irritability observe an in- verse ratio to each other, and from the facts on which that law is founded. In this double sense, besides that of distinct cavities, the mammalia have, therefore, two hearts ; and as the highly aerated blood of the left is the pecu- liar property of birds and the mammalia, so the highly irritable fibre of the right may be compared to that of the heart of reptiles and the fishes. Except for the objection to new terms, the left side of the heart might be termed arteric- contractile, and the right veno-contractile ; the first being stimulated by arterial, the second by venous blood. It is quite obvious that the heart will bear a suspended respiration better, the more nearly its irritability approaches to that which may be designated veno-contractile. The power of bearing a suspended respiration thus becomes a measure of the irritability. It is expressed, numerically indeed, by the length of time during which the animal can support a sus- pended respiration; a conclusion of the highest degree of importance in the present inquiry. Birds die almost instantly on being sub- merged in water ; the mammalia survive about three minutes, the reptiles and the batrachia a much greater length of time. The unborn fuetus, the young animal born with the foramen ovale open, the reptile, the mollusca, having all a state of the heart ap- proaching to the veno-contractile, bear a long- continued suspension of the respiration, com- pared with the mature animal of the higher classes. But the most remarkable fact deducible from this reasoning is the following : if such a case existed as that of the left side of the heart being nearly or absolutely veno-contractile, such an animal would bear the indefinite suspension of respiration ; such an animal would not drown though immersed in water. Now there is pre- cisely such a case. It is that of the hyberna- ting animal. It may be shown that in the state of perfect hybernation the respiration is nearly suspended ; the blood must, there- fore, be venous. See Hybernation. Yet the heart continues to contract, although with a reptile slowness. The left ventricle is, there- fore, veno-contractile, and in this sense, in fact, sub-reptile. The case forms a solitary excep- tion to the law pointed out by Harvey, that the left ventricle ceases to contract sooner than the right. If in the hybernating animal the left ventricle does cease to beat sooner than the right, it is only in so slight a degree as to be referred to the greater thickness of its parietes, and the slight degree in which respiration still remains. It is obvious that the foregoing state- ment must be taken with its due limitations. Venous blood is unfit for the other animal pur- poses, even though it should stimulate the heart to contraction. Another mode of determining the degree of irritability, is the application of stimuli, as galvanism. A muscular fibre endued with high irritability, as that of the frog, and the galvanic agency are mutually tests of each other.* A third criterion and measure of the irrita- bility is afforded by the influence of water at temperatures more or less elevated, in in- ducing permanent contraction of the muscular fibre. There are two other properties of animals which depend upon the varied forms of the inverse ratio which exists between the respira- tion and the irritability. The first is activity, the second, tenacity of life. The activity, which, I believe, M. Cuvier has confounded with the irritability, is generally directly proportionate to the respiration, and intimately depends upon the condition of the nervous system resulting from the impression of a highly arterial blood upon its masses, and not upon the degree of irritability of the muscu- lar fibre. It is the pure effect of high stimulus. To show that M. Cuvier has blended the idea of the irritability of the muscular fibre with that of the activity of the animal, it is only necessary to recur to the passages already quoted from that author, and to adduce the observations with which they are connected. " On vient de voir a quel point les animaux vertebres se ressemblent entre eux ; ils offrent cependant quatre grandes subdivisions ou classes, caracterisees par l'espece ou la force de leurs mouvements, qui dependent elles- memes de la quantite de leur respiration, at- tendu que c'est de la respiration que les fibres musculaires tirent l'energie de leur irritabilite."f " Comme c'est la respiration qui donne au sang sa chaleur, et a la fibre la susceptibilite pour l'irritation nerveuse, les reptiles ont le sang froid, et les forces musculaires moindres en totalitc que les quadrupedes, et a plus forte raison que les oiseaux; aussi n'exercent-ils guere que les mouvements du ramper et du nager; et, quoique plusieurs sautent et courent fort vite en certains moments, leurs habitudes sont generalement paresseuses, leur digestion excessivement lente, leurs sensations obtuses, et dans les pays froids ou temperes, ils passent presque tous l'hiver en lcthargie." \ It is extraordinary that M. Cuvier should have associated the elevated temperature of the blood with a high irritability of the muscular fibre, when they are uniformly separated in nature, and are, indeed, absolutely incompa- tible in themselves. The muscular fibre of the frog is so irritable, that it would instantly pass into a state of rigid contraction, if bathed with a fluid of the temperature of the blood of birds.ยง * Bostock on Galvanism, pp. 4, 14. t Le Regne Animal, tome i. pp. 56, 57. 2de edit. t Ibid, tome ii. pp. 1, 2. 2de edit. $ See an Essay on the Ciicniation, chap. vii. pp. 180,181. v D 2