120 ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. healing in one situation whilst fresh ones break out in the neighbourhood, and cicatrizing with a depressed surface and evident loss of sub- stance. With respect to symptoms, the loss or imperfection of voice will very much depend on the situation of the ulcers; but the diffi- culty of breathing and general distress are by no means criteria by which the extent of de- struction of parts can be estimated, for some- times there is uncommon suffering where the ulceration is extremely limited. Very fre- quently these ulcers (particularly if the epi- glottis is engaged) produce symptoms of diffi- cult deglutition, exactly resembling those of stricture of the oesophagus : but this is only during the time the sores are actually open, for, when healed, swallowing is performed with astonishing facility, even although the greater part of the epiglottis may have been carried away. But the most interesting fact in connexion with these ulcers is, that by rest and proper treatment they are susceptible of cure, and for- tunate it is that by means of operation we are enabled to afford this important organ the requi- site degree of repose. Mr. Carmichael has published two most interesting cases illustrative of this fact; in which the patients recovered, and in which we have consequently a right to infer that the ulcerations healed. In the summer of 1838 I operated on a woman in the Meath Hospital, who had symptoms of such extensive destruction of parts as must have proved fatal, but who nevertheless recovered with a complete capability of breathing through the rima, but with nearly a total loss of voice. The healing of this kind of ulceration may be inferred from that case also, but it is proved by the following observation : " In the Museum of the School of Park-street, Dublin, is a preparation taken from a poor woman who had been an inmate of the Meath Hospital ten or eleven different limes for venereal ulceration of the larynx, and finally died there quite suddenly, as if from the effects of spasm. It shews where a large por- tion of the epiglottis had been removed, the ulcer having healed by a puckered cicatrix. From below the left ventricle a longitudinal scar extended a full inch and a half down into the trachea, the contraction of which had di- minished the calibre of that part of the tube very sensibly. The right ventricle was totally obliterated, and on different spots about the superior part of the trachea there were several small pale depressed cicatrices, evidently the results of former sores that had been open at different periods at which she had been in the hospital. The only ulcer that existed at the time of her death was a very small one, with ragged irregular edges, situated midway be- tween the natural position of the right ventricle and the root of the epiglottis." The softer tissues of the larynx are also occa- sionally liable to gangrene,circumscribed—con- fined to the organ itself and not exhibiting any tendency to spread. Of this I have as yet seen but one example, and that one under circum- stances that rendered it doubtful whether the disease should not be considered as sympathetic with a similar affection of the lung. It was the case of a man who died in hospital of gan- grene of the lung supervening on acute pneu- monia. Seven days before his death he was attacked with symptoms of laryngeal disease, hoarseness, with difficult and laborious breath- ing, which gradually increased until the voice was nearly lost and respiration quite stridulous. After death, besides the gangrene of the lung, a gangrenous ulcer was found, involving the chorda? vocales at the left side: its surface was about the size of a shilling, and of a dirty green colour ; its edges quite sloughy, and its centre excavated to a considerable depth : the mucous membrane around highly vascular and covered with a pellicle of lymph. 3. The cartilages of the larynx are subject to very important diseases, some of which seem to be peculiar to fibro-cartilage in this particular situation, and all of which are attended with in- convenience and danger by reason of their interfering with the function of the organ. I shall commence with that which I believe to be the most frequent, the most important, and the most fatal; indeed, when allowed to run its own course it is always destructive, and when the patient's life is preserved by art, it is with the alternative of breathing for ever afterwards through an artificial aperture. In consequence of the similarity of symptoms between this and phthisis pulmonalis, it has obtained the name of phthisis laryngea. The exact manner in which this disease com- mences and the causes that lead to its produc- tion have not yet been so accurately ascertained as to admit of no farther doubt or question ; for instance, Mr. Ryland seems to think that " in most instances it is secondary to some inflam- matory affection of the laryngeal mucous mem- brane or its subjacent tisssue," whereas I have ventured to believe that the original morbid action was set up in the cartilage itself and was proper and peculiar to it; at the same time it must be confessed that I have seen it apparently produced by the presence of an abscess in the immediate vicinity, and I believe there can be no doubt of its being an occasional sequela of typhus fever. Theessence ofthedisease seems to be a change of structure in some of the cartilages, followed by the death and disorganization of the newly formed material, and an attempt at its removal by abscess and ulceration. Thus on a post-mortem examination of one of these cases an abscess is always found in the situation of some of the cartilages—very generally of the broad posterior part of the cricoid: and this abscess has burst by one or more openings, one of them being very frequently just behind and above the rima. On cutting into the cavity of the abscess, besides the matter, which is green- ish, putrid, and abominably fetid, particles of a grey or white earthy material are found, and there are always portions of bone, thin, ragged at the edges, white and perfectly dead. When the disease has so far progressed, there is always other and more extensive mischief; the exterior parts in the neighbourood are swelled and thick- ened, the mucous membrane ulcerated ; the arytenoid cartilages often detached ; and the