NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Excephalon.) 675 of white or fibrous matter; and a fourth con- sists of an extremely delicate membrane, pro- bably covered by ciliated epithelium, which lines the internal surface of the fifth ventricle. The fifth ventricle is closed at every point, and has, therefore, no communication with the lateral or other ventricles. It has been regarded by some as resulting merely from the artificial separation of the lamina? of the septum luci- dum. And it seems unlikely that in life, during health, the surface of these laminae should be otherwise than in contact, lubricated, however, by a slight moisture exhaled by the membrane. In a few rare cases fluid lias been known to accumulate in this cavity. In the fifth month of uterine life, according toTiedemann, this ventricle communicates with the third through a small space, situate be- tween the anterior pillars of the fornix and above the anterior commissure, and indeed it may be looked upon as a portion of the latter ventricle closed oft' by the formation of the fornix and septum lucidum. The following parts are to be noticed in each lateral ventricle :•—1. In the anterior horn, the corpus striatum, a pear-shaped eminence, the obtuse extremity of which is directed forwards and inwards. Posteriorly this body is apparently prolonged backwards into the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle by a long tapering process which terminates there. 2. Internal and pos- terior to the corpus striatum is the optic tha- lamus, a gangliform body of a greyish colour, but considerably paler than that last named. 3. These two bodies are separated from each other by a superficial groove, in which lies a delicate band of fibrous matter, the tarda semi- circularis, which is covered by a lamina of horny-looking matter, lamina cornea, the forma- tion of which is attributed by some to a thick- ening of the lining membrane of the ventricle along this groove. The choroid plexus in a great degree covers and conceals from view the optic thalamus. It passes up from the descending cornu, and just behind the septum lucidum and anterior pillars of the fornix turns inwards to unite with its fellow of the opposite side. On its inner side it is slightly overlapped by the thin margin of the horizontal portion of the fornix. In the posterior horn we observe, on its in- ternal wall, a projection inwards of one of the convolutions to which the name hippocampus minor, or ergot, has been given. It is an in- ternal convolution, covered by a layer of fibrous matter derived from the fornix. It is traversed by a deep sulcus, which may be exposed by cutting it across. The descending horn contains a remarkable prominence, the hippocampus major, (also called cornu Ammonis,) which projects into it from its inferior wall, and follows the curve of the horn. It likewise maybe regarded as an internal con- volution, and is covered by a layer of fibrous matter derived from the fornix, which overlaps the concavity of the hippocampus by a thin margin, called corpus jimbriatum. Beneath this is a peculiar disposition of grey matter con- nected with the hippocampus, to which the name fascia dentata has been given. The commence- ment of the choroid plexus is found in this horn. The anterior extremity of the descending horn of the lateral ventricle corresponds with the posterior extremity of the fissure of Sylvius. It is closed, not by nervous matter, but simply by the reflection of the membrane of the ven- tricle on the choroid plexus. This is the only provision against the escape of fluid from the ventricle. It seems highly probable, as we have already intimated, that there may be a communication at this situation, as well as at the fourth ventricle, between the fluid of the ventricles and that of the sub-arachnoid cavity by endosmose and exosmose. And the delicacy of the barrier which is opposed to the escape of fluid from the ventricle explains the occurrence of sanguineous effusions at the base of the brain from the rupture of vessels within the ventricle. Postponing the more minute description of the parts found in the lateral ventricle, as above enumerated, we proceed with the examination of those which are brought into view beneath the corpus callosum. The corpus callosum, which we have seen to consist of bundles of transverse fibres, passes directly from one hemisphere to the other. At its anterior and posterior extremity it is folded downwards, so as to connect those parts of the hemispheres which lie on a plane inferior to the lateral ventricles. Its anterior reflected portion, therefore, contributes to form the floor of the anterior horn, and the posterior one mingles with the fibres of the inner wall of the posterior horn. This disposition of the corpus callosum is best seen on a vertical section of the brain, which shows the vaulted form of this body. The greater abruptness of reflection of its posterior than of its anterior extremity, how- ever, impairs in a great degree this character. Of the fornix. —We have seen that the an- terior reflection of the corpus callosum is oc- cupied along the median plane by the vertical septum lucidum. This septum rests posteriorly upon the apex of a horizontal stratum of fibrous matter which forms part of a series of fibres called the Fornix or Vault. It is inconvenient to change names which have long been in use, more especially when there is no very certain scientific foundation for the adoption of a new one ; otherwise the term antero-posterior com- missure, which is suggested by the direction and the extensive connection of its fibres, might be appropriately assigned to it. The principal portion or body of the fornixlies immediately beneath the three posterior fourths of the corpus callosum. By cutting this body across just at the posterior extremity of the septum lucidum, and dissecting the anterior segment forwards, and the posterior one back- wards, its horizontal portion is exposed. In this dissection it is found that the latter portion of the corpus callosum is intimately adherent to the fornix. So close indeed is this adhesion that the separation is always attended with injury to the fornix. The deep-seated fibres of the corpus callosum seem to unite the lateral halves of the fornix. 2x2