NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. The Encephalon.) 686 these bodies in considerable quantity. The pia mater which adheres to their surface abounds in minute bloodvessels, and in sepa- rating it these are seen to penetrate the tuber- cles in vast numbers. This layer of pia mater contributes to form the velum interpositum. The quadrigeminal bodies are the analogues of the optic lobes in birds, reptiles, and fishes. In these classes there is only a single pair of tubercles. They are of considerable size in birds, and form a conspicuous portion of their encephalon. The division into four takes place only in Mammalia. The anterior are the larger in herbivorous animals, the posterior in the Carnivora. In most quadrupeds these bodies are concealed from view by the posterior lobes of the brain; but in Rodentia they are exposed in consequence of the imperfect developement of the brain in the backward direction. The quadrigeminal bodies rest upon two processes of fibrous matter, which extend backwards to the median lobe of the cere- bellum, and forwards to the optic thalami. These processes form a connection between the thalami and the quadrigeminal bodies and the cerebellum. They have been variously designated processus cerebelli ad testes, proces- sus cerebelli ad corpora quadrigemina, processus cerebelli ad cerebrum. The valve of Vieussens intervenes between these processes, and closes the fourth ventricle at its upper part. A longitudinal groove separates the right and left pair of quadrigeminal bodies. The ante- rior extremity of this groove forms an expanded and somewhat flattened surface on which rests the pineal gland (Jig. 386, S). From the pos- terior extremity a small band extends to the valve of Vieussens, cailed frenum. An inci- sion made vertically downwards along the course of this groove exposes the canal through which the fourth ventricle and the third com- municate (iter a tertio ad quartum ventricu- lum). This canal communicates with the pos- terior part of the third ventricle by an opening which is situate beneath the posterior commis- sure, and with the superior extremity of the fourth ventricle beneath the valve of Vieussens. The fourth pair of nerves are seen upon this surface, attaching themselves to the processus cerebelli ad testes, or to the Vieussenian valve, or to the posterior pair of quadrigeminal bodies. Besides the anterior pyramids, the olivary columns are continued through the raesoce- phale to form with the former the crura cerebri. These columns are exposed along the floor of the fourth ventricle; higher up, however, they are surrounded by a lightish grey matter, form the superior stratum of each cms cerebri, separated from the quadrigeminal tubercles by the pro- cessus cerebelli, and finally merge into the optic thalami. Their course is well displayed in fig. 380, where J represents the olivary columns, t the processus cerebelli ad testes, and v the pons penetrated by p, the pyramids. The olivary columns retain their greyish hue in their upward course. Their cylindrical form is very apparent on the floor of the fourth ven- tricle ; but it is still more obvious on viewing a transverse section, when each olivary column appears as a cylinder, to be distinguished from the rest by its roundness and its peculiar colour. No other mode of dissection conveys so much knowledge of the anatomy of this part as a transverse section, carried from above downwards through either pair of quadrige- minal bodies, and inclined a little backwards, so as to pass through the pons. The parts which may be observed on such a section, enumerated from above downwards,—are, 1, either pair of quadrigeminal tubercles; 2, between and beneath them, the iter cut across; 3, on either side of this, fibrous matter; 4, below this on each side, the section of each olivary column; 5, planes of transverse fibres interlacing with longitudinal ones, and grey matter between the planes; 6, transverse fibres forming the pons Varolii. Plan of a transverse vertical section of the meso- cephale anterior to the pons, passing through the crus cerebri. p, iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum. This is sur- mounted by a pair of the quadrigeminal tubercles. i i, olivary columns. n, locus niger. a, the inferior plane of fibres diverging upwards, which are continuous with the anterior pyramids. From the preceding description of the me- socephale it may be concluded that two classes of elements enter into its formation. These are intrinsic and extrinsic. The former con- sists in the masses of vesicular matter, with which the fibrous matter, whatever be its course, is intimately connected. Such are the grey matter of the quadrigeminal bodies; that light grey matter which surrounds the olivary co- lumns in their upward course; the darker matter which intervenes between the transverse fibrous lamelke; and more in front, that which forms the locus niger of the crus cerebri. The extrinsic elements are those which pass through this segment, being continuous with some portion of a neighbouring segment, or serving to connect the grey matter of the me- socephale with the hemispheres of the cere- brum or cerebellum, or with the medulla ob- longata. The fibres which form the inferior layer of the pons are perhaps the only element, that does not connect itself in some way with the grey matter of the mesocephale, since they seem simply to pass across from one crus cere- belli to the other. The deeper transverse fibres, the pyramids, the olivary columns, the pro-