721o PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NEltVOUS SYSTEM. posterior, and the anterior roots solely in the an- terior columns. Nothing, however, is more cer- tain than that both roots are implanted in the antero-lateral columns, and it is extremely doubt- ful that the posterior roots have any connection at all with the posterior columns. Hence, as far as anatomy enables us to judge, this distinction of function between the two columns cannot be admitted. On the contrary, anatomy indicates that the antero-lateral columns are compound in function. Their connection with the corpora striata and optic thalami, and with the mesocephale through the anterior pyramids and fasciculi innominati, their reception of both the anterior and posterior roots, and their size in each region of the cord bearing a direct proportion to that of these roots, denote that these columns with the associated vesicular matter are the seat of the principal nervous actions, both mental and physical, with which the cord is concerned. This view of the office of the antero-lateral columns is confirmed by comparative anatomy, which shows that the bulk of the organ or the variety in the size of its various parts depends mainly on these columns. Pathological observations are also in favour of this doctrine. They distinctly denote that lesion of the antero-lateral columns impairs the sensitive as well as the motor powertoan extent proportionate to theamountoflesion. Itis worthy of note, however, that while a slight lesion of the cord appears sufficient to impair or destroy the motor power, it requires a considerable ex- tent of injury or disease to impair in any very marked degree the sensitive power. Some lesions of these columns destroy the physical nervous actions of the diseased or injured part of the cord—augmenting those of the portion below the seat of lesion, doubtless by increasing its polarity ; this is seen especially in cases of injury to the cord by fractures or dislocations of the spine. Direct experiments afford no aid in deter- mining the functions of the columns of the cord. Attempts to expose this organ either in living or recently dead animals are surrounded with difficulties, which embarrass the experi- menter and weaken the force of his inferences, if, indeed, they afford any premises from which a conclusion may be drawn. The depth at which the cord is situate in most vertebrate animals, its extreme excitability, the intimate connection of its columns with one another, so that one can scarcely be irritated without the others being affected, the proximity of the roots of its nerves to each other, and the diffi- culty, nay the impossibility, of stimulating any portion of the cord itself without affecting either the anterior or the posterior roots, are great impediments to accurate experiments,and sufficiently explain the discrepancies which are apparent in the recorded results of experi- ments undertaken by various observers. More- over, the resultant phenomena, after experi- ments of this kind, are extremely difficult of interpretation, especially with reference to sen- sation. " The gradations of sensibility," re- marks Dr. Nasse, " are almost imperceptible ; the shades are so delicately and so intimately blended, that every attempt to determine the line of transition proves inadequate. There is a great deal of truth in an expression of Calmed, that it is much easier to appreciate a hemi-pa- ralysis of motion than a hemi-paralysis of sen- sation, if the anterior fasciculi of the cord possess sensibility but only in a slight degree, the mere opening of the spinal canal and laying bare the cord must cause such a degree of pain as would weaken or destroy the manifestations of sensibility in the anterior fasciculi. This has not been sufficiently attended to by expe- rimenters. Again, the practice of first irritating the posterior fasciculi, and afterwards the ante- rior, must have had considerable effect in pro- ducing the same alteration. It is plain, that in this way the relation which the anterior fasci- culi bear to sensation must be greatly obscured ; yet, with the exception of some few experiments, this has been the order of proceeding generally adopted."* All the experimenters agree in attributing to the antero-lateral columns more or less power of motion, but we gain no satisfactory infor- mation from this source respecting their sensi- tive power, and probably for the reasons so well expressed by Nasse in the passage above quoted. But, indeed, we do not need the appeal to experiment in reference to this ques- tion, although, if a distinct and unequivocal response could be elicited by means of it, the additional evidence would be of great value. There is great difficulty in determining pre- cisely the functions of the posterior columns of the cord. Both anatomy and comparative anatomy are opposed to the view which assigns them sensi- tive power. In the first place, as already stated, there is no evidence to show that the posterior roots of the spinal nerves are con- nected with them ; even Sir C. Bell, who once held that these columns were sensitive because the sensitive roots were connected with them, gave up that view, having satisfied himself that no such connection existed.f Secondly, if they were sensitive, it is not unreasonable to expect that they would exhibit an obvious en- largement at the situations which correspond to the origins of the largest sensitive nerves; so little, however, is this the case, that the pos- terior columns exhibit little or no variation of size throughout their entire course. Thirdly, the researches of the morbid anatomist afford evidence unfavourable to the assignment of the sensitive function to these columns. Cases are on record which show that disease of the pos- terior columns does not necessarily destroy sensibility; that perfect and even acute sensi- bility is compatible with total destruction of the posterior columns in some particular region, the posterior routs remaining intact: and others * Nasse, Pntersuchungen zur Physiologie und Pathologie, Bonn, 1835-36. The passage is quoted from an abstract of the work published in the Brit, and For. Med. Review, vol. iv. t See his paper on the relations between the nerves of motion and of sensation and the brain. The Nervous System, p. 234. 8vo ed., 1844.