MARSUPIALIA. with the urethro-sexual passage, but is con- nected with it by cellular membrane only; as might have been anticipated from the struc- ture presented in the simpler forms of the mar- supial uterus, as in Didelphys dorsigera ;md the Pctauri, in which the culs-de-sac do not come into contact with the urethro-sexual passage. The evidence of M. Rengger on the develop- ment of the young and the parturition of the Didelphys Azara is also directly opposed to the theory of a temporary orifice in the mesial cul-de-sac. The last form of the marsupial female organs which may be noticed is that which is found in one species at least of the Kangaroo Rat (Hyp- siprymnus murinus). The type of construction is, however, the same as in the great Kangaroo, but the mesial cul-de-sac of the vagina attains a still greater development; it not only reaches downwards to the uro-genital passage, but also expands upwards and outwards, dilating into a large chamber, which extends beyond the uteri in every direction. From the sides of this chamber the separated portions of the vagina continue downwards, to terminate, as usual, in the urethro-sexual canal.* In all the preceding genera the structure of the uteri is as distinct from that of the vagina; as in the Rodentia. The fibrous or proper tunic of the uteri is thicker than that of the vagina, and the lining membrane is soft and vascular, and disposed in numerous irregular folds, which, in section, give apparently a still greater thickness to the uterine parietes. The whole extent of the vas;inre, on the contrary, is lined with a thin layer of cuticle, which is rea- dily detachable, even from the middle cul-de- sac, so generally considered as the corpus uteri in the Kangaroo. The inner surface of the culs-de-sac in the Opossum is smooth, but in the lower part of the single cavity in the Kangaroo and Potoroo it presents a reticulate structure. The lining membrane in the lateral canals in all the genera is disposed in regular longitudinal folds, a dis- position which characterizes the true vagina in most of the ordinary quadrupeds. In the Kangaroo, as in the other Marsupialia, the lateral canals communicate with the common or urethro-sexual cavity without making a pro- jection ; but at the distance of three-fourths of an inch from their termination there is a sudden con- traction, with a small valvular projection in each Cfi§- 138). By those who consider the cul-de- sac and lateral canals as a modification of the corpus uteri, these projections will probably be regarded as severally representing an os tinea;; but as they do not exist in the Opossums and Petaurists, in which there is simply a contrac- tion of the vaginal canals at the corresponding- part, and as in both these and the Kan- garoo, the true uteri open in the characteristic valvular manner, as in the Rodentia, without the slightest appearance of a gradual blending with the median cul-de-sac, the valvular struc- ture in the lateral canals cannot be regarded as * Sec Philos. Trans., 1834, pi. vi. fig. 6. invalidating the view here adopted of the vaginal nature of the median cul-de-sac, which is supported both by the general tex- ture and connexions of the part in question, as well as by what is now ascertained to be its limited function. Moreover, in the large single vagina of some of the Rodentia, as the Hare, Rabbit, and Paca, there are two corresponding valvular folds of membrane near its commence- ment, a little way above the urethral aperture. In endeavouring to trace the purposes an- swered by the different forms of the female marsupial organs above described, considerable difficulty arises from the want of the necessary evidence which would be afforded by the ex- amination of the pregnant uterus in each genus, and by the absence of information as to their respective periods of gestation, and the powers of the new-born foetus. As far, however, as a conclusion can be drawn from the relative pe- riods of gestation in the Kangaroo and Opos- sum, the proportionate capacities of the vaginae to the uteri would appear to be greater as gesta- tion is shorter; the vagina- being thus calculated to present fewer obstacles to the escape of the foetus in proportion to the duration of its uterine existence; and, consequently, a less capacious and complete external pouch is requisite for its ultimate perfection. From Rengger's descrip- tion of the connexion of the fcetal Opossum to the uterus, it might be concluded that the gene- ration in that animal approximated to the true viviparous mode more nearly than it does in the Kangaroo; but the determination of this inte- resting question will require a more exact inves- tigation into the nature of the foetal vessels and membranes in the genus Didilphys. The im- pregnated uteri of the smaller pouchless Opos- sums of South America would be objects of peculiar interest and value in the present state of the inquiry. With respect to the variations of structure in the marsupial female organs, it may also be remarked, that though they are apparently most complicated in the Kangaroos and Pha- langers, yet in reality they deviate from the type of the normal Mammalia in a minor de- gree in these Marsupialia than in the Didel- phides and Petauri. For, the essential differ- ence being a division of the vagina into two canals, we find this bipartition to be most com- plete in the multiparous genera, while in the Kangaroos the division is only partial, and the complexity arises from augmented capacity and extent. It is to be observed, however, that the bipartition of the vaginal canal in the Kanga- roos is not continued from the uterus into the va- gina, leaving its distal extremity single^but com- mences at the urethro-sexual cavity, and is arrested near the uteri, the orifices of which thus open into a common canal. The situation of the rudimentary vaginal septum or hymen in the unimpregnated female organs of the placental Mammalia before men- tioned, corresponds with this formation in the Kangaroo; and in a case where this septum was preternaturally developed in the human subject, it was found to obey the same law of