NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. The Encephalon.) 696 one type. Of this, as M. Leuret suggests, the brain of the fox may be taken as the basis. The fissure of Sylvius is well marked in this brain ; it is bounded by a prominent convolu- tion, which encloses it above, below, and behind—thus forming' a curve, the concavity of which is directed forwards and downwards. Above and behind this we find a second con- volution forming a similar curve and parallel to the first. It exhibits a slight undulation, and is marked by a short fissure—signs of ad- vancing complication. Still further back and upwards there is a third convolution, parallel and curved similarly to the second; this bifur- cates at one point. Above all, near the summit of the hemisphere, a fourth is found disposed in the same curved manner, but ex- hibiting some sinuosities or undulations at its anterior portion. A fifth convolution exists on the inferior surface of the anterior lobe and rests upon the roof of the orbit. Leuret de- signates it the supra-orbitar convolution. The sixth convolution is of great extent; the prin- cipal portion of it is found on the inner surface of each hemisphere above the corpus callosum; in front it bends downwards and backwards to the fissure of Sylvius, and behind it extends to the middle lobe and forms the hippocampus major. This convolution exists in a high slate of developement in the human brain, and has attracted very generally the attention of ana- tomists. Foville describes it by the name convolution d'ourlet. Such is the most simple arrangement of the convolutions. The complication of this takes place by undulations being formed in the con- volutions themselves, by a subdivision of them at certain situations, by the junction of neigh- bouring ones through smaller folds crossing the sulci between them, and in the highest classes by the addition of totally new convolutions. Animals, whose brains have nearly the same degree of developement as that of the fox, have exactly the same convolutions, differing, however, somewhat in point of size. This in- crease of size is denoted by undulations formed in the course of convolutions throughout more or less of their extent. The dog may be taken as an example. M. Leuret states that, in com- paring the brains of several dogs together, he found with all of them the same convolutions, differing only in the extent of undulations and the number of depressions, both of which were greatest in the largest brains. The brain of a large mastiff (c/iien dosue), a good watch-dog, of such great ferocity that he attacked the person who fed him, had all the convolutions very large and much undulated, with numerous depressions in them. A group of animals, consisting of the cats and the hyena, exhibits another stage of in- crease in the developement of convolutions. The same type prevails as in the fox and dog; four external convolutions, one internal, and a supra-orbitar. These convolutions, however, are united to each other at numerous points by means of small folds crossing the sulci. These uniting folds form the secondary or supple- mentary convolutions. Nearly all the primary convolutions have supplementary ones con- nected with them. A group, which includes the sheep and other ruminant animals, exhibits much more com- plication in the cerebral convolutions, but still preserves the same type. The undulations and the supplementary convolutions are more numerous. The primary appear less nu- merous because less distinct. The anterior part of the internal convolution is much in- creased in developement, and the supra-orbitar is much more complex. In the fissure of Sylvius some small convolutions are found which are the first developement of those which in the human subject constitute the insula of Reil. In the brain of the elephant new convolu- tions are added. These consist of folds pass- ing in a perpendicular direction; the primitive convolutions always taking a longitudinal course. These latter are divided by the former into an anterior and a posterior set. Others are found above and in front of the fissure of Sylvius; three superior convolutions are found, the continuations of which backwards are situate above the internal convolution. All the convolutions of the elephant are remark- ably undulating and exhibit numerous depres- sions. The brain of the whale is very similar to it in this respect, and both resemble that of man. Monkeys have not the tortuous or com- plicated convolutions which are found in the whale and elephant. Yet the developement of the hemispheres at their posterior part, the general form of the brain, the extent and in- clination of the fissure of Sylvius approximate the brain of monkeys to that of man much more nearly than the whale's or elephant's, which, notwithstanding their complicated con- volutions, are generally inferior in organization, and resemble the brains of other Mammalia. The internal convolution in monkeys is simple; below and behind -it forms the hippocampus, from which convolutions are prolonged back- wards, forming the posterior lobe. Two supe- rior convolutions are met with above the fissure of Sylvius, between which is placed a trans- verse fissure very constant, called the fissure of Rolando. The orbitar convolutions are largely developed. In comparing the human brain with that of the inferior animals, we notice great exactness of symmetry between the convolutions of op- posite hemispheres in the latter, and the want of it in the former. It cannot, however, be said that the convolutions of opposite hemispheres in the human subject are absolutely unsymmetri- cal. A careful examination will show that the same convolutions exist on each side, but appa- rently of different sizes, and not closely correspon- ding as regards situation. My meaning will be more readily understood by referring to fig. 381, p. 671, where the same numbers have been affixed to corresponding convolutions. No. 1 on the right has a certain general re- semblance with No. 1 on the left, which would be much more perfect but for the fissure which marks the convolution of the right he-