LIFE. 156 have been excited to germination when at last exposed to the requisite conditions.* Most physiologists, at least, are content to adopt this explanation, seeing that it is con- formable to what is otherwise known of the persistence of vitality in seeds ; but it has been recently maintained that in such instances a spontaneous production takes places, similar to that which many philosophers have supposed to occur among the lower tribes of organised beings.f This is not the place to discuss such a theory, of which it would not perhaps be very difficult to show the absurdity; but the following case furnishes, we apprehend, a very satisfactory proof that seeds may preserve their vitality for an unlimited time, when the ex- ternal conditions are such as to prevent either the active exercise of their properties or the disorganisation of their structure. " I have now before me," says Professor Lindley,J " three plantsof raspberries whichhavebeen raised in the gardens of the Horticultural Society, from seeds taken from the stomach of a man, whose skele- ton was found thirty feet below the surface of the earth, at the bottom of a barrow which was opened near Dorchester. He had been buried with some coins of the Emperor Hadrian, and it is probable, therefore, that the seeds were six- teen or seventeen hundred years old." In regard to eggs, no such examples are, we believe, on record ; nevertheless, there are some tribes of animals whose eggs are capable of being preserved for a considerable length of time, and of undergoing very severe treatment without loss of their vitality. Most insects de- posit their eggs sufficiently early in the summer for the larvae to be hatched and attain their full growth before the autumn deprives them of their supply of food, and these pass the winter in the pupa state. But there are some which do not begin to lay until the activity of vegetation has nearly ceased, and their eggs remain undeveloped until the ensuing spring arouses both the animal and vegetable creation into life. The curious instincts which lead these insects to choose secure places for the de- position of their eggs, and to use other means of protecting them against cold and moisture, are described by Mr. Kirby;§ and the same author points out the beautiful correspondence between the temperature required for the de- velopment of the buds of the plant and of the larvae that prey upon them. It has been men- tioned in a former article|| that the eggs of the slug are capable of enduring a temperature of 40°, and of being completely desiccated, with- out losing their fertility ; and it can scarcely be doubted, therefore, that these might preserve their vitality like the seeds of plants for an un- * For several cases of this kind related on the authority of Professor Graham, see Dr. Prichard's Physical History of Man, third edit. vol. i. p. 39, &c.; and for a very curious instance communicated to the author of this article, see his Principles of General and Comparative Physiology, p. 141. t See Dr. Weissenborn's papers in the Philo- sophical Magazine for 1838. | Introduction to Botany, p. 298. $ Kirby and Spence's Entomology, vol. ii. p. 443. || Vol. ii. p. 402. limited period, if neither aroused into activity nor disorganised by decomposing agents. It will scarcely be denied that the agents which are known to destroy the vitality of seeds and eggs are such as are calculated to produce important changes in their structure and composition, even though these be of a kind inappreciable by our present means of re- search. Thus most seeds are killed by a tem- perature of 160°, which is that at which rup- ture of the vesicles of fecula takes place, and the application of heat sufficient to destroy the vitality of an egg coagulates its albumen. An electric shock is well known to be a powerful means of instantaneously extinguishing the vital properties of eggs or seeds ; and although the precise alterations which it effects in the struc- ture or composition of their parts is not under- stood, it cannot be doubted that important or- ganic changes are produced by so powerful an agent. Cold, in like manner, probably acts injuriously on most eggs and seeds as upon plants, by causing the rupture of the cells of their tissues through the expansion of the con- tained fluids in the act of freezing. We do not mean to say that other changes are not also produced by such agents, but we mention these as evidences of the position with which we started—that vitality is not destroyed by the influence of external agents without a structural change of some kind being induced by their operation. But it is not during their embryo state merely, that the vital actions of living beings may be suspended by the deficiency of external stimuli, and yet their vitality be preserved. Both the vegetable and animal kingdoms afford numerous examples of such an occurrence at all periods of existence, especially among their lower tribes. Mosses, for instance, often ap- pear completely desiccated in dry weather, and seem as if dead ; whilst, on the application of moisture, they revive in all their pristine beauty. The curious Lycopodium of Peru exhibits this torpor in a still more remarkable manner. When desiccated by drought, it folds in its leaves and contracts its roots so as to form a ball, which, apparently quite devoid of anima- tion, is driven hither and thither by the wind ; as soon, however, as it reaches a moist situa- tion, it sends down its roots into the soil, and unfolds to the atmosphere its leaves, which, from a dingy brown, speedily change to the bright green of active vegetation. The rose of Jericho is the subject of similar transforma- tions. Instances exactly parallel are furnished by the animal kingdom. The common wheel- animalcule is one of the most remarkable, being capable of desiccation so complete as to splinter if touched with the point of a needle, and still preserving its vitality so as to revive when moistened." In animals reduced to a * This fact has been denied by some naturalists ; but the author can positively assert it from his own experience. See Principles of Gen. and Comp. Physiology, p. 90, note. From experiments subse- quent to the one. there related, he is inclined to believe that of two species of Rotifer, so nearly allied as to be usually considered the same, one is thus rcvivinable, and the other not.