MUSCLE. 517 Fig. 299. View of the capillaries of muscle (part of the latis- simus dorsi of a mouse, where it co?isists of a sinyle sheet of fibres). a, a, terminal twig of the artery. b, b, terminal twigs of two neighbouring venous branches, anastomosing, and carrying off blood from the same capillary net-work c, c. e, an elementary fibre, to show the relative size and direction of those to which the capillaries here represented are distributed. particles are compressed and elongated, some- times to a great extent, evidently by the nar- rowness of the canal which contains them. It may seem at first sight not doubtful that in the living creature these elastic blood-discs are similarly elongated in their passage through the vessels of muscle, but the admirable re- searches of Poiseuille will perhaps serve to explain this appearance without our being driven to suppose the presence of so formid- able an obstacle to the capillary circulation through these organs. It is more probable that the contraction of the vessels and the com- pression of the blood-discs occur, on some of the contents of the vessels being permitted to escape by the severing of the fragment for microscopic examination. The coats of the capillaries of muscle consist of a simple diapha- nous membrane, in which a few irregular-shaped cytoblasts occur at infrequent intervals. Of the nerves of muscle.—The distribution of the nerves through muscular structures has always been a subject of great interest with those who looked to this line of inquiry for some clue to the explanation, either of that wonderful active connexion subsisting between them, or of the nature of the contractile act itself. But though the anatomical results ac- cruing from this inquiry are of a highly satis- factory kind, considered in themselves alone, yet they cannot be said to have hitherto contri- buted, in any great degree, to the elucidation of these mysterious questions. The best mode of inspecting the arrangement of the ultimate ner- vous twigs, is to select a very thin muscle, (as one of the abdominal muscles of any small animal, or one of the muscles of the eye of a small bird,) to steep it in weak acetic acid, and then thin it out under the compressorium. The primitive tubules of the nerve may then be readily distinguished with a power of 100 to 200 linear. They separate from one another, at first in sets, afterwards in twos, threes, or fours, and if these be followed they will be found ultimately separating from one another, form- ing arches, and returning either to the same bundle from which they set out or to some neighbouring one (fig. 300). In this loop- like course they accompany to some extent the minute bloodvessels, but do not accurately follow them in their last windings, since their distribution is in a different figure. They pass among the fibres of the muscle, and touch the sarcolemma as they pass; but as far as present researches have informed us, they are entirely precluded by this structure from all contact with the contractile material, and from all im- mediate intercourse with it. How then shall we explain the transmission of the nervous in- fluence to a material thus enclosed ? If it were wise or safe to go a single step in advance of pure observation on so abstruse a question, we might suggest, resting on the seemingly sure ground of exact anatomy, that this in- fluence must be of a nature capable of ema- nating beyond the limits of the organ which furnishes it. But further than this, as to how, or to what extent this influence may so emanate, Fig. 300. Loop-like termination of the nerves in voluntary muscle. A fter Burdach. or as to what may be its nature, it would, per- haps, in the present state of knowledge, be hardly warrantable even to speculate. d. Of the distribution of the striped and unstriped fibre in the body.—The striped fibre is met with in all the voluntary muscles, and in a few involuntary, as the constrictors of the