396 MONOTREMATA. thorhynclius, is of a spherical form, and very nearly fills the ovisac. The diameter of the germinal vesicle is to that of the ovum as 1 to 38. The vitelline fluid is rich in the number of its nucleated cells or granules, and the intermixed, clear, colourless oil-globules. The vitelline membrane is moderately thick, smooth, and highly refracting. The ovum is se- parated from the ovarian vesicle, or lining membrane of the ovisac, by a very small quantity of fluid and a stratum of granules or cells. Tiie proper tunic of the ovisac consists of a dense and very vascular layer of the ' stroma' or proper tissue of the ovary, which is rather thicker and more distinctly laminated than in most Mammalia, and in this re- spect widely differs from the lax stroma of the ovary of the bird. The most important difference to be noted in the present comparison with the bird is the small size of the ovarian ovum, depending on the relatively scanty amount of vitelline matter, superadded in the ovary to the essential part of the ovum, the vesicula germinatua. It may be objected that the impregnated ovarian ova in birds rapidly augment in bulk as the time of dehiscence approaches, and that, although the ovaria of the Ornithorhynchus may have been investigated within a few days of the reception of the impregnated ovum into the oviduct, the changes occurring in such a period might much more nearly approximate the ovarian ovum of the Ornithorhynchus to the size and other conditions of that of the bird than in the instances above described. The following observations on the impreg- nated ovum in the uterus itself prove, how- ever, that no such approximation to the bird in regard to the proportion of yolk added to the ovarian ovum, or as respects the size of the ovum prior to dehiscence, is made by the Ornithorhynchus. For the acquisition of this important evi- dence in the question of the generation of the Monotremata science is indebted to the ex- ertions of Mr.Geo. Bennett, F.L.S., a Member of the Royal College of Surgeons in London, and Colonial Zoologist at Sydney, New South Wales. Three uteri, containing undeveloped ova, were transmitted by that gentleman to the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, in 1834, and with the sanction of the Board of Curators, were described by me in the Philo- sophical Transactions of that year.* In these specimens the left ovary only had taken on the sexual actions, but did not ex- ceed in size the same parts in the unimpreg- nated specimens above described. The right ovary had, however, become enlarged; it mea- sured half an inch in length, a third of an inch in breadth, and was about half a line in * See vol. cxxiv. p. 555, and Physiol. Catalogue of the Hunterian Museum, vol. v. p. 112, No. 3460 A. Fig. 192. Left uterus impregnated, Ornithorhynchus. (Owen, Phil. Trans. 1834J thickness : a few ovisacs, about the size of a small pin's head, projected from the surface. The left ovary in each of the specimens was concealed by the thin membrane forming the expanded orifice of the oviduct, to which it was agglutinated by a coagulated secretion. In two of the specimens the left ovary pre- sented two empty ovisacs, or corpora lutea (fig- 192, b b), corresponding with the num- ber of ova found in the uterus. In the third specimen the left ovary presented two ovisacs still uncicatrized ; but only one ovum was con- tained in the uterus. In a fourth specimen three similar ovisacs were present, but the ova had been removed from the uterine cavity. The discharged ovisacs were of an elongated flask-shaped form about three lines in length, and two in diameter, with the margins of the orifice, through which the ovum and granular substance had passed, everted, with a slight contraction, resembling the neck of a flask, below the aperture. On compressing these ovisacs, small portions of coagulated sub- stance escaped. When longitudinally divided, they were found to consist of the same parts as the ovisac before impregnation, with the exception of the granular contents and gra- nular stratum; but the theca, or innermost parietes of the sac, was much thickened, and encroached irregularly upon the empty space, so as to leave only a cylindrical passage to the external opening. The impregnated Ornithorhynchus, in the uterus of which the two smallest sized ova were found, was shot on the evening of the 6th of October, 1832, in the Yas river, Murray County, New South Wales. These ova were of a semitransparent white colour when recent, but had lost that appearance when examined at the Museum, to which they had been trans- mitted, in situ, with the uterus and surround- ing parts well preserved in spirits. The ova were situated at the upper part of the left uterus, and at the distance of about a line from each other. Each ovum was spherical in form, and measured two lines and a half in diameter; they were of a deep yellow colour,