4 INSTINCT. tions, the-sensations, the voluntary powers, the memory and instinct of the animals are all brought into play ; but we have no reason to believe that the animals performing them are capable of anticipating their ultimate result. In all cases, those actions which are en- titled to the appellation of Instinctive are ge- nerally understood to be characterized by two marks, quite sufficient to distinguish them from the effects of voluntary power guided by rea- son: 1. That, although in many cases expe- rience is required to give the will command over the muscles concerned in them, yet the will, when under the influence of the instinc- tive determination, acts equally well the first time as the last; no experience or education is required, in order that the different voluntary efforts requisite for these actions may follow one another with unerring precision; and 2. That they are always performed by the same species of animal nearly, if not exactly, in the same manner; presenting no such variation of the means applied to the object in view, and admitting of no such impro^ments in the pro- gress of life or in the succession of ages, as we observe in the habits of individual men, or in the manners and customs of nations, adapted to the attainment of any particular ends by those voluntary efforts which are guided by Reason. " The manufactures of animals," says Dr. Reid, " differ from those of men in many striking particulars. No animal of the species can claim the invention. No animal ever in- troduced any new improvement, or variation from the former practice. Every one has equal skill from the beginning, without teaching, without experience or habits. Every one has its art by a kind of inspiration, i. e. the ability and inclination of working in it without any knowledge of its principles." A third distinc- tive mark, naturally resulting from the last, is at least equally characteristic, although much less generally observable,—that these instinc- tive actions are seen to be performed in cir- cumstances which reason informs us to be such as to render them nugatory for the ends which are usually accomplished by them, and for which they are obviously designed. The efforts made by migratory birds, even when confined, at their usual period of migration,— the mistake of the flesh-fly who deposits her eggs on the carrion-plant instead of a piece of meat,* or of the lien who sits on a pebble in- stead of an egg, or of the mule which remains immoveably fixed by terror instead of escaping from the flood which threatens to overwhelm it, (as exemplified in the inundation of the valley of Luisnes in Savoy m 1818,) or of the bee which gathers and stores up honey even in a climate where there is no winter,f are so many proofs, that an instinctive action is prompted by an impulse, which results merely from a particular sensation or emotion being- felt, not by anticipation of the effect which the action will produce. * Kirby. t Sec Kirby and Spence, Introduction to Ento- mology, vol. ii. p. 469. But, in order to have demonstrative proof of the essential difference between instinct and reason, and of the correctness of the view which we take of the nature of that mental impulse which prompts what we call the in- stinctive actions of animals, it is only neces- sary to reflect on what passes within ourselves on occasion of certain actions of the very same class being performed by us. It is dif- ficult, indeed, in adult age, to distinguish those actions which we perform instinctively from those which we have learnt by repeated efforts to perform habitually ; but in the case of infants we see complex actions, useful or necessary to the system, performed with per- fect precision at a time when we are certain that the human intellect is quite incompetent to comprehend their importance or anticipate their effects; yet we cannot doubt that it is by a mental impulse that they are excited, because we perform the same actions in the same cir- cumstances in adult age, and are then con- scious of the impulse which prompts them. " It is an instinct," says Bichat, " which I do not understand, and of which I cannot give the smallest account, which makes the infant, at the moment of birth, draw together its lips to commence the action of sucking," to be fol- lowed by the still more complex act of deglu- tition. " This cannot be ascribed to the mere novelty of the sensations which it experiences from external objects, for the general effect of such sensations is to determine various agita- tions or irregular movements indeed, but not an uniform movement, directed to a deter- minate end. If we examine different animals at the moment of birth, we shall see that the special instinct of each directs the execution of peculiar movements. Young quadrupeds seek the mammas of their mothers, birds of the order Gallinacea? seize immediately the grain which is their appropriate nourishment, while the young of the Carnivorous birds merely open their mouths to receive the food which their parents bring to their nests. In general, it is very important to distinguish the irregular or varied movements which, at the moment of birth, are produced simply by the new sensations and excitements which the body receives, from those definite actions which are the effect of instinct, a cause of which we can give no further explanation." In fact, when we attend to the simple action of deglutition,* as performed in our mature years, we may be conscious that it results from the same instinctive impulse which guided it with unerring precision in the new-born infant, long before the voluntary power of simply raising the hand to the mouth had been ac- quired. If we were to consult only the grati- fication of our sensations, we should keep any grateful food in the mouth; for when it is swal- lowed the gratification immediately resulting from it is at an end, and there is no peculiar pleasure attached, in other circumstances, to the mere act of deglutition ; but all we can * [I. e. that part of the act which is dependent on the voluntary movement of the tongue to pass on the food to the isthmus faucium.—ED.]