LAC11YMAL ORGANS. and continuation with each other of these two portions of the membrane. It is by this conti- nuity that the eyelids and eyeball are held in connexion, hence the name conjunctiva, and that the orbit is closed in and cut off from all communication with the space between the eyeball and eyelids. The space between the eyelids and eyeball we shall distinguish by the name of oculb-palpebral space of the conjunctiva, a name, the necessity for which appears from this, that in common language, when it is said a foreign body has got into the eye, it is only meant that it has got into the oculo-palpebral space of the con- junctiva. The propriety of the name moreover will become more evident when the space in Serpents and Geckoes comes under considera- tion, for in them it is a closed cavity, (in ser- pents already designated by Jules Cloquet* oculo-palpebral sac of the conjunctiva,) re- ceiving the lacrymal secretion and communi- cating with the exterior only by the connexion it has with the nose through the nasal duct. What are called the superior and inferior palpebral s'muses of the conjunctiva are those parts of the oculo-palpebral space under the upper and lower eyelids respectively, where the ocular and palpebral portions of the con- junctiva are reflected and continued into each other, forming a cul-de-sac. The conjunctiva is here loosely attached to the subjacent cellular and adipose tissue, &c. of the orbit, and forms folds constantly varying with the motions of the eyeball and eyelids. The superior palpebral sinus of the conjunctiva is deeper than the lower, the reflection of the conjunctiva from the eyelids upon the eyeball being when the eyelids are passively closed: above, at the distance of about seven-tenths of an inch from the margin of the upper eyelid, and below, at about three- tenths of an inch from the margin of the lower. The cul-de-sac formed by the reflection of the conjunctiva does not lie very deep within the outer canthus, speaking in reference to it alone, though as near the edge of the orbit as above or below. The looseness of the folds formed by the conjunctiva at the upper and lower palpebral sinuses and within the outer canthus, together with the peculiar nature of its disposition at the inner canthus, presently to be noticed, allows of the free motions of the eyeball in all direc- tions. These folds may be readily seen on everting either eyelid, as also the continuity of the conjunctiva from the eyelid to the eyeball by requesting the person to look upwards, if it is the lower eyelid which is everted, downwards in the contrary case. In operations on the eyeball when the eyelids are held apart unskilfully, the folds are thrust out between the eyelids by the action of the orbicularis muscle, so that they almost bury the front of the eyeball and consequently im- pede the operator. By long-continued catarrhal ophthalmia and the abuse of blue stone and similar escharotics, * Memoire sur l'existence et la disposition des voies lacrymales dans lcs serpens. Paris, 1821. the conjunctiva is apt to become contracted and thickened, and to acquire at the same time a callous articular surface. In such cases the contraction tells very much upon the looseness of the folds of the conjunctiva at the upper and lower palpebral sinuses, which may indeed be said to be obliterated. The consequence of this is great restriction in all the movements of the eyeball. Foreign bodies which may have entered the oculo-palpebral space sometimes get lodged in the palpebral sinuses of the conjunctiva, especially the upper, and may be retained there for a length of time without causing much or any irritation, the conjunctiva being there so loose and the adjacent cellular and adipose tissue of the orbit so soft that the body is not much pressed upon by the opposing surfaces. The contrary is the case when the foreign body lies between the eyeball and the firm part of the eyelid, for here its irritation excites the orbicularis muscle to stronger action which serves but to aggravate the distress. Disposition of the conjunctiva at the inner canthus.—Under this head falls to be consi- dered the semilunar fold, the notice of which it will be advantageous to premise by a descrip- tion of the lacrymal caruncle. In consequence of the prolongation of the palpebral fissure at the inner canthus into a secondary one, the lacrymal caruncle and semilunar fold are so exposed that their external conformation can be readily and indeed best studied in the living eye. Lacrymal caruncle, caruncula lacrymalis. Fr. ha caroncule lacrumale. Ital. La carun- cula lagrimale. Germ. Die Thrdnenkarunkel. Tnis is a small reddish yellow eminence having a slightly tuberculated surface, beset with very delicate scarcely visible hairs. It is situated, as has been said, within the secondary fissure of the inner canthus, and inclosed between the two slips of the tendo palpebrarum. To see the lacrymal caruncle in its whole extent, it is necessary to evert slightly the lower eyelid, when it is observed running into a point down- wards and outwards. The lacrymal caruncle consists of a mass of loose fibro-cartilaginous tissue, similar to that of the tarsal cartilages, in which are imbedded follicles, secreting a fluid of the same nature as that of the Meibomian glands, and pouring it out by twelve or fifteen excretory orifices on its surface, which is in- vested by the conjunctiva. Anciently the la- crymal caruncle was thought to be the secreting organ of the tears, and the lacrymal points the excretory orifices. Semilunar fold, plica semilunaris. Fr. Le repli sanilunaire. Ital. La piega semilunare. Germ. Die lialbmondformigen Falte. In passing from the caruncle to the eyeball, the conjunctiva forms a vertical semilunar fold which encloses at its free edge a minute cartilage of a nature similar to the tarsal cartilages. This part of the conjunctiva is distinguished from the ocular portion by its reddish colour and greater thick- ness, indeed it resembles more the palpebral conjunctiva than the ocular. The concavity of the crescent, which is also the free edge of the