80 LACRYMAL ORGANS. hence, when the eye is open, the apex of the angle formed by the inner canthus is broader and to a much greater degree prolonged than the outer; it is also rounded and turned down- wards, but likewise in a much greater degree. The margins bounding the secondary fissure being destitute of cartilage are not firm and square but soft and rounded. Where the margin of either eyelid is con- tinued into the margins bounding the secon- dary fissure in question, there is observed on slightly everting the eyelids a small promi- nence, and in the apex of it a minute aperture, larger however than those above mentioned of the Meibomian follicles. The eminence is called lacrimal papilla and the aperture lacri- mal point. The fissure is closed by the action of the orbicularis muscle at the same time as the eye- lids ; but its margins, especially at the lacrymal papillae, come completely into contact before they do. The space within the inner or nasal canthus is called lacus lacrymalis. The lacry- mal papillae and their points are turned in towards it, ready to take up the tears as they collect. At the bottom of the lacus lacrymalis, there is seen a small reddish glandular body, the lacrymal caruncle, and between the latter and the white of the eye a semilunar fold of pink- coloured conjunctiva. Eyelashes, Cilia,* Ft. Cils; Ital. Leciglia; Germ. Die Augenwimpern. Every one knows the conformation of the eyelashes. How that they are stiff compressed hairs, increasing at first in thickness from their root, then gradu- ally tapering to their free and slender extre- mity ; how that they spring from the anterior edge of the palpebral margins; how that those of the upper eyelid are stronger and more nu- merous than those of the lower; how that those in the middle are longer than those towards the corners of the eyelids; and how that those of the upper eyelid are curved upwards and those of the lower eyelid downwards, so that their convexities regard each other. In regard to the curvature it is to be remarked that it is not gradually throughout the whole hair but is betwixt the thickest part and the root. There is another slight but variable curvature towards the extremity. The skin of the eyelids is continuous with and similar to that of the face, only some- what more delicate. The skin of the upper eyelid is more delicate than that of the lower. The eyebrows, superci/ia, Fr. Les sourcils ; Ital. Le sopraciglia; Germ. Die Augenbraunen (jig. 11). The external appearance of the eye- brows is too well known to require any particu- lar description. Their prominence is produced partly by the superciliary arches of the frontal bone over which they lie, but principally by a cushion of cellular and adipose tissue under- neath the skin, together with the roots of the hairs and muscular substance. The hairs of the eyebrow are, generally speaking, directed from within outwards, but internally, especi- * Cilia, quia oculos celcnt ac tueantur. ally where they exist over the root of the nose, they are inclined in the opposite direction. Those immediately over the root of the nose indeed cross each other. Besides the general direction from within outwards of the majority of the hairs of the eyebrows, it is to be re- marked that the uppermost ones are inclined downwards and the lowermost ones upwards, so that they are raised into a kind of ridge along the middle line of the eyebrow, an ar- rangement which presents a pleasing appear- ance of regularity. The eyebrows are capable of very free motions, and these are in close connexion with the affections of the mind; hence the eyebrows have always been con- sidered a very important physiognomonical feature. The movements of the eyebrows are effected by muscles inserted into their skin. These muscles are: the frontalis, which elevates the eyebrows ; the upper and outer fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum, which depress them, and the corrugatorsupercilii, which draws them inwards. For their description, see article Face. The eyelids act in conjunction with the iris on many occasions; thus, in a weak light and in the act of looking at distant objects, the eyelids are widely opened at the same time that the pupil is dilated ; when the eye is exposed to a strong light, on the contrary, or in looking at near objects, the palpebral fissure is con- tracted along with the pupil. In sleep com- plete closure of the eyelids is associated with very great contraction of the pupil.* The eyelids of the left side widely opened, seen from without. ( From Soemmerring.) a a, The broad free margins of the eyelids, with the mouths of the Meibomian follicles. b, Outer canthus. c, Inner canthus. d, Lacrymal papilla and lacrymal point of upper eyelid. e, The same of the lower eyelid. f, Lacrymal caruncle, and<?, semilunar fold, at the bottom of the lacus lacrymalis, which is the space wifhin the fissure of the inner canthus. h hy The orifices whence the eyelashes have been plucked out. i, Eyebrow. * See farther on this subject, TourtnaI,Ueber die Function der Augenlider beim Sehen. in Muiler's Archiv, No. iii. 1838.