720% PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. the means of giving to the anterior root the slight decree of sensitive power which Majendie attributes to it. From the determination of the office of each root of the spinal nerves we obtain the further important result, that the nerve, which is formed by the junction of these two roots,is sensitive and motor, and that nervous fibres of different en- dowments may be bound together in the same sheath constituting one nerve, which is com- pound in its functions. And the anatomical distribution of spinal nerves, both in man and the inferior animals, to the muscles and sen- sitive surfaces of the trunk and extremities, is entirely confirmatory of the results thus derived from experiment. By the use of the various means for deter- mining the functions of nerves, above detailed, and aided by the determination of the law dis- covered and developed by Bell and others, as to the motor nature of the anterior and the sen- sitive endowment of the posterior roots, and the subsequent binding together of these fibres in one sheath to form a compound nerve, physiologists have made great advances in determining the functions of the various encephalic nerves, and our knowledge on this subject may be said to have approached more to perfection than that of any other physiological Questions. The main facts connected with the anatomy and physio- logy of each of these nerves will be found under the articles headed by their names. Of the f unctions of the nervous centres.— In examining into the functions of the va- rious parts of the cerebro-spinal axis I shall adhere to the definitions already adopted in the previous part of this article, and use the term spinal cord as denoting the nervous cylinder within the spinal canal, and the encephalon as the intra-cranial mass, consisting of medulla oblongata, mesocephule, cerebellum, and cere- brum. Of the functions of the spinal cord.—It was long held that the spinal cord was no more than a bundle of nerves proceeding from or to the brain, and emerging at various points of the vertebral canal to be distributed to then- destined regions.* The anatomy of the organ, however, suffi- ciently exposed the error of this opinion. The existence of a large quantity of vesicular matter in it varying in quantity according to the bulk of its segments showed that it was more than a mere fasciculus of nerves. Although the true office of the spinal cord was known to physio- logists long before, to Prochaska for example, Gall appears to have been the first who ad- duced the best proofs from anatomy to show that the spinal cord was not a mere appendage to the brain, but a special centre in itself. His principal arguments were derived from the want of any constant proportion in bulk be- tween it and the brain, the spinal cord being small with a large brain, as in man, and large with a small brain, as in the inferior mammalia and in other vertebrata, from the fact that it does not taper gradually in proportion as it * That this was Willis's view a perusal of chap- ters xviii. and xix. of his Cerchii jinatome will shew. gives off nerves, but on the contrary is alter- nately large or small according to the number and volume of the nerves which are given off from its various segments; and, lastly, from the ana- logy which he indicated between the spinal cord of vertebrata and the ganglionic chain of articulata, the former consisting of a series of ganglia fused together, the latter remaining separate by reason of the peculiar disposi- tion of the bodies of these animals in distinct segments. The determination of the functions of the nerves which are intimately connected with or implanted in the spinal cord affords some clue to the solution of the problem as to its own office. There can be no doubt that as the nerves of sensation as well as those of motion of the trunk and extremities are all, to say the least, intimately connected with the cord, this organ must be the medium of the reception and propagation of the sentient impressions made upon the one, and of the mental or phy- sical impulses which excite the others. If, moreover, we look to the results of expe- riments on the lower animals, or to the effects of injury or disease in the human body, we obtain the following important facts :—1st, that the perfect connexion of this organ, in all its integrity, with the encephalon is the essential condition for the full and complete exercise of the nervous force, whether for sensation or voluntary motion, as far as regards the trunk and extremi- ties; 2nd, that division of the cord, so as com- pletely to separate the lower from the upper segment, causes paralysis both of sensation and voluntary motion in the parts supplied with nerves from the lower segment; 3rd, if the section be made high up in the neck so as to separate the cord from the medulla oblongata, all the parts supplied by spinal nerves will be paralysed in the same way; by such an expe- riment the spinal cord remains entire, but its continuity with the encephalon is interrupted. In cases of injury to the vertebral column it may be laid down as the rule that the higher the seat of injury the more extensive will be the paralysis. A man who has received exten- sive injury of the spinal cord high up in the neck is like a living head and a dead trunk, dead to its own sensations, and to all voluntary control over its movements. The same rule prevails with regard to the effects resulting from disease of the vertebrae or from any intra-spinal growth, or from a morbid state of the cord itself, there being only this difference, that where the morbid change is chronic, the paralytic effects are less marked than in injury or acute disease. In all cases the extent of the paralysis affords a correct indication of the seat of the solution of continuity. If the spinal cord be divided partially in the transverse direction, there will be paralysis of parts on the same side with the injury. Dr. Yellowly has put on record an experi- ment of Sir Astley Cooper's, in which he divided the right half of the spinal cord in a dog just above the first vertebra. The effect was paralysis of the motions of the ribs on the right side, and of the right posterior and pos- terior extremities, with irritation of those of