MARSUPIALIA. 280 frig between the last nine vertebrae of the tail. In the Petaurists, Phascogales, and Da- syures, where the tail acts as a balancing pole, or serves, from the long and thick hair with which it is clothed, as a portable blanket to keep the nose and extremities warm during sleep, the subvertebral arches are also present, but in less number and of smal'er relative size. They are here principally subservient to the attach- ment of muscles, their more mechanical office of defending the caudal vessels from pressure not being required. Thorax.—The ribs consist of thirteen pairs, except in the Wombat, which has fifteen, and Petaurists, which have twelve; the first is the shortest, and, except in some of the Petau- rists, the broadest. In the Pet. macrurus the fifth, sixth, or seventh are the broadest, and the ribs generally have, both in this species and in Pet. sciureus, a more compressed form than in the other Marsupials; but this character does not exist in Petaurus Tuguanoides. In the Great Kangaroo they are very slender and rounded, except at the sternal extremities, which are flattened for the attachment of the cartilages. In this species and the Bush Kangaroo, the seven anterior pairs of ribs articulate directly with the sternum. The cartilages of the six false pairs are long and bent towards the ster- num, but do not join it, nor are they confluent, but have a gliding motion one over the other. In the Myrmecobius there are eight pairs of true ribs; the two last pairs are floating ribs. In the Opossum there are seven pairs of true ribs, and six which may be regarded as costa notha. In the Petaurist six pairs out of the twelve, and in the Wombat six pairs only out of the fifteen, reacli the sternum (Jig. 105). Phascolomys fiisca. The sternum consists of a succession of elon- gated bones, generally six in number, but in the Petaurus Tuguanoides five, and in the Wombat four. The first bone, or manubrium sterni, is the largest, and presents in many species a triangu- lar shape from the expansion of its anterior part, and sometimes a rhomboidal figure. A strong keel or longitudinal process is given off in many species from the middle of its inferior or outer surface ; the side next the cavity of the chest is smooth and slightly concave. In the Wom- bat, Phalangers, and others, the keel is pro- duced anteriorly into a strong process, against the sides of which the clavicles abut: the first pair of ribs join the produced anterior angles of the manubrium. In the Dasyures, Opossums, Phalangers, and Petaurists, the manubrium is compressed and elongated, and the clavicles are joined to a process continued from its anterior extremity ; the small clavicles of the Kangaroo have a similar connexion. The cartilages of the true ribs (which fre- quently become ossified in old Marsupials) are articulated as usual to the interspaces of the sternal bones; the last of these supports a broad gat cartilage. Of the Pectoral Extremities.—The scapula varies in form in the different Marsupials. In the Petaurists it forms a scalene triangle, with the glenoid cavity at the convergence of the two longest sides. In the Wombat it presents a remarkably re- gular oblong quadrate figure, the neck being produced from the lower half of the anterior margin, and the outer surface being traversed diagonally by the spine, which in this species gradually rises to a full inch above the plane of the scapula, and terminates in a long narrow compressed acromion arching over the neck to reach the clavicle. In the Koala (fig. 106), the superior costa does not run parallel with the inferior, but re- cedes from it as it advances forwards, and then passes down, forming an obtuse angle, and with a gentle concave curvature to the neck of the scapula; a small process extends from the middle of this curvature. In the Potoroo, the upper costa is at first parallel with the lower, but this parallel part is much shorter ; the remainder describes a sigmoid flexure as it approaches the neck of the scapula. In the Great Kangaroo, the Perameles, Pha- langers, Opossums, and Dasyures, the whole upper costa of the scapula describes a sigmoid