277 MAKSUPIALIA. arteries; and in the Koala and Wombat the atlas presents only the perforation on each side of the superior arch. In the Perameles and some other Marsupials, as the Cayopollin, an affinity to the cold-blooded Ovipara is mani- fested in the structure of the atlas (fig. 98), which exhibits a permanent se- paration of the neurapophyses or superior laminae from the centre or body below. In the Koala and Wombat the body of the atlas remains perma- nently cartilaginous, and the lower part of the vertebral ring by dried gristly substance Fig. 98. Alias of Pera- meles layotis. is completed (fig. 99). In the Petaurists, Kangaroos, Fie. 99. Adas, axis, and third cervical vertebra. Koala. and Potoroos, the atlas is completed below by an extension of ossification from the neurapophyses into the cartilaginous nucleus representing the body, and the ring of the vertebra is for a long time interrupted by a longitudinal fissure in the middle line, the breadth of which diminishes with age. This fissure is represented in figures of the atlas of a Potoroo and Kangaroo, given by Pander and D'Alton, (Beutelt/uere, fig. c, plates iii. &vii.); but in some of the skeletons of these Marsu- pials examined by me I find the ring com- pleted and the fissure obliterated. In all the Marsupials the spine of the dentata is well developed both in the vertical and longitudinal directions, but most so in the Virginian and Crab-eating Opossums, (fig. 100), where it increases in thickness posteriorly; in these species also the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae have their spines remarkably long and thick, but progressively diminishing from the third (fig. 101), which equals in height and Fig. 100. Fig. 101. Vertebra dentata, Didclphyi Virr/iniana. Third cervical vertebra, Didelphys Virginiana. thickness, but not in longitudinal extent, the spine of the dentata. These spines are four- sided, and being closely impacted together, one behind another, must add greatly to the strength, while they diminish the mobility of this part of the spine. I know of no other mammiferous genus which presents the same structure: ill the Armadillos the corresponding spines are largely developed, but they are anchylosed together. In the Orang the cervical spines are very long and strong, but have the ordinary sub-cylindrical rounded form. Tyson, who has described and figured the above struc- ture of the cervical vertebrae in his anatomy of the Opossum, conjectures that it is given to this arboreal animal in order "that there might be no danger of its breaking its neck should it happen to fall to the ground by chance or de- sign:" but this teleological conjecture is inva- lidated by the fact that the Phalangers, Petau- rists, Koala, and other arboreal Marsupials present the usual structure of the five posterior cervical vertebrae, the spines of which are much smaller and weaker than that of the dentata, and in the Phalangers and Petaurists almost obsolete. These do not require the neck to be strengthened to aid in overcoming the struggles of a resisting prey. I observe in the Pha- langixta Coukii that the superior flattened arches of the five last cervical vertebrae bear a ridge on each side of the spine having the same direction and form, and nearly the same size. The structure of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, in the Opos- sum, is adapted to the strengthening and fix- ation of this part of the vertebral column : they are expanded nearly in the axis of the spine, but obliquely, so that the posterior part of one transverse process overlaps the anterior part of the succeeding. This structure is ex- hibited in a slighter degree in the cervical ver- tebrae of the Dasyures, Phalangers, and Great Kangaroo. In the Petaurists, Potoroos, Wom- bat, and Koala, the direction and simpler form of the transveise processes allows of greater freedom of lateral motion. In the Koala and Wombat a short obtuse process is given off from the under part of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra. In the Poto- roos, Kangaroos, Petaurists, Phalangers, Opos- sums, and Dasyures, this process is remarkably expanded in the direction of the axis of the spine. In the Bandicoots corresponding pro- cesses are observed progressively increasing in size, on the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae. The number of the dorsal vertebrae is greatest in the Wombat, where it is fifteen, correspond- ing with the number of pairs of ribs: it is least in the Petaurists, which have twelve dorsal vertebrae.* In all the other genera there * In the skeletons both of the Pet. macrurus and Pet. sciureus in the Museum of the College of Sur- geons there are twelve pairs of ribs; but in the Pet. macruras the succeeding vertebra has a short transverse process on each side, the extremity of which has the appearance of having supported a costal appendage. Cuvier, however, assigns but twelve dorsal vertebrae to this species in his table* Le9. d'Anat. Comp. 2d edit. p. 180.