395 MONOTREMATA. vestibule. But, as has been before observed, neither the lining membrane of the vestibule nor that of the genito-urinary passage presents the characters of an active secreting membrane; and it is highly improbable that an almost callous surface daily traversed by the excrements, should be suddenly modified to contribute so important a share to the nutrient store of the embryo. The common vestibule (b) is about one inch four lines in length, and varies from half an inch to an inch in diameter. The muscular fibres immediately investing it are disposed as follows. A thin circular muscle arises from a dorsal raphe which extends the whole length of the canal. Of this muscle the sacral fibres, or those nearest the outlet, surround the whole vestibule; but the atlantal or more internal fibres pass obliquely upwards, and surround the termination of the rectum only, serving as a sphincter to it. On the sternal aspect of the vestibule there are a series of longitudinal fibres, which extend from its external orifice to that of the urogenital cavity, the office of which is to approximate these orifices; and in this action the oblique fibres above described would assist, while at the same time they closed the rectum. On the sternal aspect of the urogenital canal, and close to where it joins the vesti- bule, the clitoris is situated, which is conse- quently about an inch and a half distant from the external orifice of the vestibule. It is inclosed in a sheath upwards of an inch in length, and about two lines in diameter, of a white fibrous texture, and with a smooth in- ternal surface, and this sheath communicates with the vestibule about a line from the ex- ternal aperture. The clitoris itself is a little flattened body shaped like a heart on playing cards; it is about three lines long, and two lines in diameter at its dilated extremity, where the mesial notch indicates its correspondence of form with the bifurcated penis of the male. From the shortness of the clitoris, and the length of its sheath, it is obvious that no part of it can project into the vestibule in the ordi- nary state of the parts, as stated by Sir Everard Home, its extremity being situated at. least an inch distant from where its sheath communi- cates with that cavity. At the base of the clitoris are two small round flattened glands, the analogues of Cow- per's glands in the male, which open into the sheath or preputium clitoridis. These glands were largest in the specimen whose uterine organs were most developed. The vestibule is lined by a dark-coloured cuticular membrane, and has a tolerably uni- form surface. The rectum opens freely into it posteriorly, as indicated by the probe b', in Jig. 191 ; the line of distinction in the relaxed state of the sphincter above-mentioned being little more than a change in the character of the lining membrane. The urogenital canal, on the contrary, opens into the vestibule by a contracted orifice, and, in one of the specimens examined, made a small circular and valvular projection into that cavity. On either side the termination of the rec- tum there are from six to eight small apertures of dark-coloured glands or follicles, about the size of a pin's head, situated immediately behind the proper membrane of the vestibule, and corresponding with the anal follicles of the Marsupial and other Quadrupeds. The female organs of the Echidna corres- pond in all essential points with those of the Ornitliorhynchus. Products of generation.—The mode of ge- neration and course of development of the Monotremata, although elucidated in many essential points by the light of anatomy and analogy, still demand observation of the breed- ing animals, and of the impregnated uterus and embryo in several stages, before they can be fully determined. The close resemblance of the efferent tubes, in their complete separation and in their mode of termination, with the oviducts of Reptiles, and more especially of the Oviparous tortoises, added to the approach to the very peculiar condition of the female organs in Birds which the Monotremes offer in the unequal develop- ment of the ovaria and oviducts, have inclined several physiologists to a belief in the reports which from time to time have been published of the discovery of eggs in the nests of the Ornithorhynchus. But a comparison of the organs themselves with the conditions essential to the Oviparous generation of a warm-blooded animal offers almost insuperable difficulties to this view. The difference of structure and dimensions between the uterine and oviducal divisions of the efferent canal is greater in the Ornithorhynchus than in any bird, and so closely corresponds with that which charac- terizes the uterus and oviduct in the Kangaroo, that it is highly probable they perform similar functions in the completion and development of the ovum. But the experienced physiologist would seek to obtain a closer insight into the mode of generation of the Monotremes by a comparison of the more essential generative organ,—the ovary,—with that of the bird. Now it has been shown that this organ, at the period of sexual excitement, does not differ in size or form from that of the Rodent or Marsupial quadruped ; nay, that some of the latter tribe, as the Wombat, more nearly resemble the bird in the large size of the ovisacs or calyxes than the Monotremes are known to do. A yolk of large size appears, however, to be an essential con- dition of an egg which is to be hatched by a warm-blooded animal out of the body; but the vitelline portion of the ripe or nearly ripe ovarian ovum of the Ornithorhynchus does not equal the twentieth part of the yolk of the egg of a bird of corresponding size: and it is scarcely necessary to observe that the yolk is always exclusively a product of the ovarium, and that the material added to it by the oviduct or uterus must be analogous to the albumen, chalaza?, and cortical investments of the bird's egg- The unimpregnated ovarian ovum from an ovisac of two lines in diameter, of the Orni-