237 MAMMALIA. triturant, or with a flattened surface, as the Apes (Pithecoida) and the Bats ( Dermoptera) : his second family includes the Unguiculate quadrupeds with acuminated, canine, or car- nivorous teeth, and is called Karchurodonta, or Gampsonucha; whilst the quadrupeds cor- responding with the Rodent order of modern naturalists are grouped together and indicated by a negative dental character, viz. the absence of canine teeth. With respect to the hoofed or Ungulate quadrupeds, Aristotle continues to employ the organs of progressive motion for the subordi- nate characters, and divides them into, 1st, Polyschida, or multungulates, as the Elephant, &c; 2d, the Dischida, or bisulcates, including the Ruminants (Merykozonta), and the Hog- tribe; 3d, the Aschida, or solidungulate quad- rupeds, as the Horse and Ass. The Apodal Zootoka, which form the third of Aristotle's more comprehensive groups, un- derwent no corresponding subdivision in his system. It embraces the modern Cetacen, under the name of Ketoda. Thus the natural class of animals, now universally recognized under the Linnsean epithet Mammalia, although jt comprehends creatures the most diverse in their forms and habits, some, e. g. skimming along the air with wings like birds, others ha- bitually dwelling on the ocean disguised as fishes, was clearly appreciated and first indi- cated by Aristotle, who included therein the Bat and theWhale,with the ordinary hairy quadruped and the naked biped, according to principles acknowledged as consisting with the soundest philosophy by the best-informed physiological naturalists of the present day. During the two thousand years which have elapsed since Aristotle wrote and lectured on natural history, the ideas of learned men re- garding the nature and classification of Mam- mals received no improvement, and any change which they underwent was for the worse. Our great countryman Ray was the first to introduce any amelioration of Aristotle's arrangement. This arises chiefly from the tabular form in which he expressed his ideas, and in which the subordination of the charac- ters and groups is more definitely set forth than in the existing compendium of Aristotle's History of Animals. Ray's improvements of classification relate, however, only to the Te- trapodous Mammals. It is as follows: — " A Table of Viviparous Four-footed Animals. " Viviparous hairy animals or quadrupeds are,—• " Ungulate, and these either "~ Solidipedous, as the Horse, Ass, Zebra. Bisulcate, which are Ruminants with horns, that are r Persistent, as in the Ox, Sheep, Goat, or ^ or (.Deciduous, as in the Stag. ^_ATo£ Ruminants, as the Hog. ^Quadrisulcate, as the Rhinoceros, Hippopotamus. ^Unguiculate, whose feet are either < $ Bifid, as in the Camel, or ( Multifid, which are ("With digits adhering together, and covered with a common intecu- ment, so that the extremities alone are visible at the margin of the foot, and are covered with obtuse nails, as in the Elephant. LWith digits in some measure distinct and separable from each other, the nails being Depressed, as in Apes, or Compressed, where the incisor teeth are C Many, in which group all the animals are carni- vorous and rapacious, or at least insectivorous, or subsist on insects with vegetable matter : f The larger ones with the I C Muzzle, short, and head rounded, ! y ilia Fdlnirt t^Il-i/-. • ^« .i S < as the Feline tribe; or with the t Muzzle long, as the Canine tribe; The smaller ones with a long slender body, and short extremities, as the Weasel or Vermine* tribe; ery large, of which tribe all the species are Two phytivorous, as the Hare." " The anomalous species," Ray afterwards observes, " among the viviparous quadrupeds with a multifid foot are the Hedge-hog, the Armadillo, the Mole, the Shrew, the Taman- dua, the Bat, and the Sloth. The first five of these species agree with the canine and vermine * Genus Vermineum, from their worm-like form.