390 MONOTREMATA. modification of the Vertebrate type as does the Ornithorbynchus, is one of which it was obviously most interesting to ascertain the form of the blood-discs. I have made appli- cations to different professional and zoological correspondents in Australia on this subject, for the transmission of a portion of recently drawn blood thinly spread and dried on glass, or preserved in its fluid state in brine and other menstrua of the same density as serum, and for the results of observations on the blood-discs of both the Ornithorhynchus and Echidna. Mr. Hobson, of Hobart Town, Van Diemen's Land, an accomplished sur- geon and comparative anatomist, has made the required observations on the blood of the Ornithorhynchus, of which he has trans- mitted to me the following account:—"The globules of the blood of the Ornithorhyn- chus are discoid, and measured about the a<H>tjth of an inch, calculating two-and-a-half millimetres to the line. The human blood- globules were placed side by side with those of the Ornithorhynchus, and both in shape and size so nearly resembled each other that it was impossible to say which was human and which was Ornithorhynchus. These examinations were made in the presence of Mr. Ronald Gunn, by means of one of Oberhauser's mi- croscopes ; the powers used were 250, 400, and 800. In order to be sure that there was no delusion, I placed the elliptical globules of a Lizard's blood beside those of the Ornitho- rhynchus. The tenacity and high florid colour of the blood, together with the greater propor- tional number of globules in a given quantity" (in the Ornithorhynchus) " is most interesting in an analogical point of view." From the preceding highly valuable observa- tions we may infer that the Ornithorhynchus resembles the Mammalia in the circular form, the size, the proportional number, and florid colour of its blood-discs, which correspond in size with those of the only Edentate species yet examined, viz. the Armadillo,* and conse- quently with those of the Quadrumana and of Man. The blood-discs of the Echidna, according to the observations made by Dr. John Davy on a portion of blood of that animal, transmitted to England in brine, are likewise circular. Heart.-—The heart of the Ornithorhynchus (fig. 187, a, b, c) presents a rounded oblong form ; it is situated in the middle of the ante- rior part of the chest, parallel with the axis of the cavity. It is inclosed in a thin subtrans- parent but strong pericardium. The right auricle (6) is larger and longer than the left; its appendix is free and is slightly bifid, as in the Marsupials. It receives the venous blood, also, as in that order, by three great veins; the left vena innominata (~f) de- scending behind the left auricle to join the termination of the inferior cava (/()• The coro- nary vein also terminates in the auricle to the right of the inferior cava. The right superior * See Medical Gazette, Nov. 18, 1840. cava (e) is joined to the left by a transverse branch (g). Meckel found in the heart of both the Ornithorhynchi dissected by him a deep but closed fossa ovalis, near the upper extremity of the septum. This structure would indicate that the intra-uterine existence of the young was of longer duration than in the Marsupial ia. The right ventricle (a) is capacious, with thin parietes. The tricuspid valve I found to consist of two membranous and two fleshy portions : the smallest of the latter was situated nearest the origin of the pulmonary artery, and seemed to correspond with the lesser fleshy valve observ- able in the heart of certain birds, as the Ostrich; it is attached to the whole of the side of the first or adjoining membranous portion. The second fleshy portion may be described as ana- logous to the muscular valve in the Bird's heart, if the lateral margin of this were detached from the wall of the ventricle, and the connection of its two extremities was preserved, the one to the angle between the fixed and moveable wall of the ventricle, the other to the auriculo-ven- tricular orifice. The two edges of the lower half of the second fleshy portion of the valve in the Ornithorhynchus are free; but those of the upper half are attached to the two mem- branous portions of the tricuspid valve; the margin of the membranous part of the valve is attached to the fixed wall of the ventricle by two small chorda? tendineae; and the structure of the valve thus offers an interesting transi- tional state between that of the Mammal and that of the Bird.* The origin of the pulmonary artery is pro- vided with the three usual sigmoid valves. The left ventricle has very thick parietes, which form the apex of the heart; the mitral valve is membranous; the larger flap is at- tached to two strong columns carneae; the smaller flap to three smaller columns. The small left auricle (c) receives two pulmo- nary veins. In the Echidna the free appendix of the right auricle is slightly indented. The ter- minal orifice of the superior cava is protected by a membranous semilunar valve, extending from its left side. The musculi pectinati di- verge from a strong fasciculus, which extends from the appendix to the orifice of the in- ferior cava; this fasciculus bounds the left side of a wide fossa ovalis, which is imper- forate. The inferior cava is protected by a large membranous Eustachian valve; the left vena innominata terminates by a distinct aperture to the left of the preceding, and is also defended by a process of the Eustachian valve. The inner surface of the right ventricle is more irre- gular than in the Ornithorhynchus ; the free wall is attached to the fixed one by several columns carneae and short chordae tendineae; the tricuspid valve is membranous and consists of one principal portion attached to the exterior * " Similitude- qusdara cum avium valvula ve- nosa dextra et propter carnositatem et propter figuram minime praetervidenda adest."—Meckel, 1. c. p. 31.