MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 499 suit from the predominance of their epithelial element over the others. The ducts terminate in vesicles, very similar in the figure they assume to those of the lungs, but nearly filled up with epithelial particles. The basement mem- brane is very delicate. The capillary vessels encircle the vesicles, and are comparatively few in number, whence the pale colour of these glands. The areolar tissue forms capsules for those aggregations of vesicles, termed lobules, but does not penetrate between the individual vesicles. The mammary glands derive their extreme denseness and toughness, as well as their white colour, principally from the areolar tissue, in which the proper glandular membrane is en- closed. This tissue penetrates more abundantly between the minuter subdivisions of the gland than is observed in any other instance. It thus affords support, at the same time that it permits and facilitates movement of one part of the organ on another. It is also of such a nature as to readily allow of distension during lactation. General outline of the functions of the mu- cous system.-—By its external anatomical posi- tion, this system is subservient to four great functions : the reception of impressions from without, the defence of the body from external injurious influences, the absorption of foreign particles, and the separation of such as are for any reason to be eliminated. It may almost be said to be the peculiar seat of these func- tions, which, however, are distributed in a very unequal manner over its different regions. Reception of external impressions.—The skin and mucous membranes appear everywhere fitted by their nervous supply to receive im- pressions, which, being conveyed to the ner- vous centre, may there excite a reflexion of stimulus along motor nerves, without the in- tervention of consciousness. Common sensa- tion, or that which in its most exalted form becomes touch, exists in all parts of the cuta- neous surface, within the mouth, for some dis- tance within the nostrils, and (with the excep- tion of the pharynx and oesophagus) in general, wherever the epithelium is of the true scaly variety. Where the sense of touch is most perfect, the simple membrane is observed to be involuted into the form of papilla; for the pur- pose of crowding a larger number of nervous loops into a given space. Taste and smell, which are nearly allied to touch, are the other special senses of which the mucous system is the seat. The sensations of hunger and thirst seem also referrible to this tissue. Defence from external influences.—One chief division of the mucous system, viz. the skin, derives its main characteristics from its adap- tation to this function, and those parts of the mucous membranes which are most exposed to the contact of irritating substances approach the most nearly to the skin in their structure. Their epithelium is scaly and in thick laminae, their submucous areolar tissue abundant, dense, and resisting. The nervous endowments of such surfaces, whether excito-motory or sen- sorial, mainly contribute to the protection of the animal. And, on the external tegument, the developement of hairs, nails, &c. in their endless modifications of form, position, and structure, serve, with few exceptions, the same important purpose. In some parts of the mu- cous membrane peculiarly obnoxious to pres- sure, there are special glands for the lubrication of their free surface. Absorption of external material.— Every particle, entering the body from without, is ab- sorbed, in the first instance, through some por- tion or other of the mucous system. What is now known of the nature of this function in general, renders it certain that every part of the mucous system would form an absorbing sur- face, if favourably circumstanced for doing so. But as the extraneous material, to be absorbed, must be brought into contact with the absorb- ing surface, often by some special and com- plicated means, this function is chiefly limited to certain distinct districts of the system. With few exceptions the glands are not suited either by their position or structure to receive the contact of extraneous substances, and even many portions of the mucous membranes are incapacitated in the same manner, as, for ex- ample, most of those lining the excretory pas- sages of the glands. The secretions which, in a healthy state, are the only substances brought into contact with these surfaces, are, it is true, occasionally modified by a partial absorption of their constituents; but, generally speaking, this occurs to a very slight extent. Once formed, they usually traverse the channels, leading to the outlets of the body, unchanged. The simplest condition under which this function presents itself appears to be that ex- hibited by the respiratory surface, which, whe- ther it be arranged as lungs or gills, is con- cerned with aeriform particles, and absorbs and secretes through the self-same structure. The skin also is a very active absorbing surface, and appears, by the best observations, to be provided with a close net-work of lymphatics, which I have already stated to be most probably situated immediately under the basement mem- brane. It does not appear that the existence of the lymphatic pores, described by MM. Bieschet and Roussel de Vauzeme as opening on the free surface of the cuticle, has been confirmed by any subsequent anatomist. I have sought in vain for any such system of vessels in the cuticle, and I believe those distinguished ob- servers must have been deceived by the irre- gular lines of union between the epidermic particles. It is true that the thickness and tex- ture of the layers of epidermic scales are little calculated to allow of their being permeated by foreign material, whether fluid or gaseous; and, therefore, it is not likely that absorption is effected to any great extent either through their substance or interstices. It seems more con- sonant with facts to suppose, that this process, especially in respect to solid matters, is carried on by the simple membrane of the sudoriferous ducts, with which external particles would easily be brought into contact through their open extremities. But as these ducts traverse the thickness of the cuticle, and in that part of 2 k 2