ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 76 to form an obstuse angle internally, and it is not improbable, that by the sprain the internal lateral ligament or other structures in the in- terior of the joint were injured. The sprain was followed by swelling, &c., and it was six weeks before he recovered so as to be able to walk. Mr. L. remained well for eight months, when, in crossing over a ditch, the sudden derangement recurred. The moment the displacement of some part of the interior of the joint occurred, he dropped suddenly to the ground. Another day, while practising some gymnastic exercise, it occurred. Again, it happened while in bed, the bed-clothes em- barrassing the motion of the foot while he was turning his body round. On the last occasion on which the displacement happened, he was on horseback ; he had just mounted, and was, while his knee was flexed, seeking with the in- verted foot for the off-stirrup, when the dis- placement happened. On all these occasions he has without loss of time sought to replace the deranged parts, and sometimes has suc- ceeded instantaneously, and sometimes weeks have passed without the adjustment of the parts in the interior of the joint occurring. The restoration of the use of the joint has al- ways been as sudden as the derangement, and the replacement has invariably been accom- panied by a sudden snap, as if something at that moment changed its place, and this to him was always the signal of recovery of the uses of the joint. When the extension and flexion of the limb in the manner recommended by Hey has been the means of restoration, he has on some occasions not only felt the sudden movement of what he considers the dislocated part in the interior of the joint, but he thinks he could distinctly hear the crack the part gave in resuming its ordinary place. The writer of this has lately seen and examined Mr. L.'s knee-joint, and compared it with the opposite one, and cannot perceive the slightest difference on a simple inspection of both arti- culations either before or behind. The patella and the ligament which connects it to the tibia are just as firmly applied in front of the joint as usual, and there is now no effusion into the joint of any unnatural quantity of synovial fluid. He habitually wears a laced knee-cap, and finds only a difficulty in flexing as fully the affected knee-joint as the other, and he has an habitual fear of any movement of the leg in which this is at the same time flexed, and the foot inverted. This is a well-marked example of the internal derangement of the knee de- scribed by Hey ; but what are the true ana- tomical characters of the accident, or what really is the structure, whether normal or ab- normal, which slips in and out with a noise? Nothing positive, in our opinion, has been added to the knowledge of the nature of the accident given to us by Hey, who has the merit not only of first describing the injury, but of also pointing out a simple and generally successful remedy- Many surgeons have considered that the in- ternal derangement of the knee described by Hey, and considered by Sir A. Cooper as a " partial luxation of the femur from the semi- lunar cartilages," is a dislocation of these fibro- cartilages. Malgaigne justly criticises the vague- ness of the language used by authors relative to this matter. M. Velpeau, according to Mal- gaigne, in one place treats of this luxation as a luxation of the semilunar fibro-cartilages, and in another work he seems so uncertain of the na- ture of the accident as to demand whether the phenomena may not be owing to the ex- istence, in the interior of the joint, of some of those cartilages which we call foreign bodies. Malgaigne himself seems to fall into the opi- nion of Sir A. Cooper upon this subject, al- though he does not use the same terms, and considers the accident to be a simple and par- tial luxation of the femur from the tibia, the consequence of the relaxation (if all the liga- ments, but adduces no anatomical evidence of the truth of his hypothesis. He considers the accident, " Une simple luxation incomplete du femur sur le tibia, produite par un relachement de tous les ligamens, et tout-a-fait analogue aux deplacemens occasioned par la meme cause dans les autres articulations." Sir A. Cooper is of opinion that Mr. Hey's plan is generally, but not invariably successful, and adduces the case of a lieutenant in the army who suffered this accident repeatedly, and the limb was often reduced by the above-mentioned means ; but at length, turning in bed, from the pres- sure of the bed-clothes on his foot, the accident recurred. He came to London, but bending the limb had now no effect in enabling him to extend the joint. Sir A. Cooper, therefore, ad- vised him to visit Mr. Hey, but he learned that in this case the dislocation was never re- duced. In an obstinate case of this internal derangement of the knee-joint, which resisted all the ordinary means of surgical treatment, the writer succeeded (in Jervis-street Hospital) by using the pulleys. Under exactly simi- lar circumstances, his lamented friend, Dr. M'Dowel, subsequently succeeded by having recourse to the pulleys when all other means had failed. The knee-joint is seldom affected by sprains. When, however, there is an undue inclination of the knee inwards, the internal lateral liga- ment is occasionally, by an accidental false step or twist, sprained, and sudden lameness comes on followed by swelling, and more or less inflammation of the synovial membrane of the articulation. It has not been ascertained whether in such cases the fibres of the internal lateral ligament have given way, or whether they are detached from the bone or not; but it is not improbable that some such lesion has occurred as that we have already noticed under the head of Sprains in another articulation: (see Ankle.) When sprains of the knee take place, it is almost invariably the inner side of the joint to which the patient refers as the prin- cipal seat of tenderness and pain. The joint admitting of motion unaccompanied by any crepitation (although the act may be painful), readily distinguishes a sprain from any frac- ture of the bones of the articulation. It is not improbable that in sprains of the knee-