188 ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. ration; g, pus ; //,tubercle; i, scirrhus; k, medul- lary sarcoma;l,fungus haamatodes; m, melanosis. a. Inflammation.—The tissue of the liver is liable to inflammation,—hepatitis,orthe lobular hepatitis of some writers. The symptoms, like those detailed in the consideration of inflam- mation of the serous membrane, are severe and prominent, and clearly indicative of the nature of the disease. The pathologic appearances are deep redness, softness, general congestion, and enlargement of the organ from distension with blood. This condition is but rarely ob- served, from the circumstance of inflamma- tion of the liver having no direct tendency to cause death, but being rather the precursor of the various other forms of disease which affect the organ. All the changes which occur in the liver are preceded or accompanied by in- flammation acute or chronic, but more fre- quently by the latter, and in most instances by de- rangement of the venous circulation, and, occa- sionally, of the biliary excretion, giving rise to a complication of venous and biliary congestion. /). Hyper-trophy of the liver is increase of bulk of the organ, not depending, as in con- gestion, upon the quantity of blood circulating through it, but upon actual augmentation of the tissues of which it is composed. This state of enlargement of the liver may be gene- ral, or it may be confined to a part, as to a single lobe. Its predisposing cause is proba- bly irritation of the mucous membrane of the ducts which gives rise in the first instance to retarded circulation and venous congestion, or it may be impediment either in the circulation through the heart, or through the rest of the venous system ; or, again, it may depend upon diminution of the general powers of the system, as in a scrofulous constitution. The lobules are always in a state of partial congestion, re- sembling the second stage of hepatic venous congestion ; the congested portion presents a deep red tint, and the uncongested part is ramose or convoluted in appearance, of a dirty white, greyish, yellowish, or greenish hue, in proportion to the condition of the biliary ap- paratus and to the quantity of bile contained within the liver. Sometimes the organ is pale, and appears deficient in its supply of blood; at other times it has a generally diffused red- ness, or the congestion may be greater in some situations than in others. The consistence of the liver in hypertrophy is equally variable with its colour : sometimes it is softer than natural, at other times it is dense and appa- rently granulated, the uncongested part pro- jecting from the surface, and the congested portion sinking beneath its level. Hyper- trophy of the liver is generally associated with chronic disease of the lungs, scrofula, and rickets, and often exists as a cause in ascites. It has been observed fifteen, eighteen, thirty-five, and even forty pounds in weight, and to have produced the displacement of the other abdo- minal viscera by its enormous size. c. Atrophy of the liver is a condition of the nutritive functions of the organ which may succeed chronic inflammation or even hyper- trophy ; it occurs more rarely than hypertrophy, to which its comparative frequency has been estimated by Portal as 5 to 95. The substance of the liver diminishes in bulk, the lobules become indistinct and variously congested, and they appear intermingled and pressed upon by the cellular structure with which they are surrounded. Sometimes the proper structure of the liver is entirely removed and replaced by a loose or condensed cellular tissue. At other times the entire substance of the organ appears to have been absorbed by an enormous abscess, which has evacuated its contents into the intestinal canal, and the parietes have after- terwards contracted and degenerated into an atrophied mass. Lieutaud gives an account of a liver that was shrivelled into a mass not larger than his fist. Portal found the liver in a case of ascites not bigger than an apple of ordinary size. Partial atrophy of the liver conjoined with hepatic venous congestion is not an infrequent consequence of thepractice of tight lacing. I ha ve before me a very interesting speci- men of this affection. The surface of the liver is marked by deep fissures into irregular poly- gonal divisions resembling very strikingly the lobulated appearance of the foetal kidney. In one situation the stages of this change are dis- tinctly apparent; a certain portion of the organ, about half an inch in breadth, has become partially atrophied from the pressure of two adjoining and protuberant portions of the liver, and in the lobulated portion the hepatic sub- stance of this atrophied mass has been com- pletely removed by absorption, leaving a kind of condensed cellular cicatrix extending like a septum for some distance into the organ. It is in this way that many of the grooves and fissures upon the convex surface of the liver are formed. But the most interesting form of atrophy of the liver is that which was named by Laennec cirrhosis. In cirrhosis, the liver is diminished in volume to the extent of one-half or one- third of its natural bulk, the relative size of the right and left lobes is destroyed, and the surface is rendered shapeless by the projection of a number of ridges or granular points. The entire organ appears wrinkled and shrivelled, and of a yellow or greenish colour, varying in tint from a bright chrome to a yellowish or greenish brown. Upon dividing it with a knife it is observed to be more dense than usual, and the surface of the section presents a number of patches of variable size and of a roundish form, which resemble granules; hence this condition of the organ is named by the French authors " foie granuleux." In an ad- vanced stage it is accompanied with jaundice and ascites, and is frequently preceded by some disease, either of the lungs or heart. Kiernan is, I believe, the first pathologist who distinguished the true nature of cirrhosis, which he called atrophy of the liver. A very interesting ca?e of this disease occurred in St. Bartholomew's Hospital, under the care of Dr. Latham, in 1832, an account of which was published in the Lancet in November of that