MUSCLE. grow dark. The addition of a little acid, how- ever, swells the fibre, obliterates the cross lines, and brings the corpuscles into view, not only at this early period, but at every subsequent one, even to old age. In insects, the nuclei in the earliest stage are a single or double series in the axis of the fibre, and in the per- fect fibre they hold the same position (figs. 292 and 293, c). In the Vertebrate classes they have a like correspondence, being scat- tered equally throughout the mass, in both fetal and adult states. Where the fibre is small, however, they usually abound more towards the surface. They are oval and flat, and of so little substance, that though many times larger than the primitive particles, and lying amongst them, they do not interfere with their mutual apposition and union. These corpuscles are frequently the cause of irregular dark longitudinal streaks, seen in the fibre by transmitted light. They usually contain some central granules or nucleoli (Jig. 295). It is doubtful whether the corpuscles or nuclei originally present remain through life, or whe- ther successive crops advance and decay during the progress of growth and nutrition. But it is certain, that, as development proceeds, fresh corpuscles are deposited, since their absolute number is far greater in the adult than in the fetus, while their number, relatively to the bulk of the fibre, at these two epochs, remains nearly the same. 7. Of the sarcolemma, or tunic of the ele- mentary fibre.—This is a simple transparent homogeneous membrane of extreme tenuity, but very tough and elastic, which, in the form of a perfect tube, invests every elementary fibre, adheres to its surface, and isolates it from sur- rounding parts. It is universally present in vo- luntary muscles, and may be demonstrated in a variety of ways. When the fibres have been im- mersed in alcohol, which causes them to shrink, it is often seen wrinkled on their surface; or when they are cracked or broken across, it fre- quently remains entire and connects the severed fragments (fig. 294). This method of showing Fig. 294. it is best followed in the case of the large and brittle fibres of the Skate ; or, it may be seen cut across in a general transverse section of a dried muscle (fig. 290). When the texture of the fibre is destroyed by maceration, the broken mass is sometimes retained by the sheath, which thus becomes visible. When the fibre swells by acid, this tunic resists, and the swollen mass emerges at its broken and open end : but, if this is not effected with suf- ficient celerity, the sarcolemma may give way at different points, being burst by the mass, which thus forms hernias. Such protruding masses being unequally stretched have their transverse and longitudinal lines distorted from their true direction and thrown into very ele- gant curves (fig. 295). Again, if a fibre still Fig. 295. I- Part of an elementary fibre from the human sub- ject, treated with phosphoric acid. a, point at which the sarcolemma is burst. b, hernia of the sarcous ma*s, with distortion of the longitudinal and transverse lines. c, a smaller hernia. Corpuscles are seen scattered throughout the mass, and some detached ones, d, are represented below. Their average diameter is one-thousandth of an English inch. retaining its irritability, be immersed in water, this fluid, on being absorbed, excites contrac- tion, by which it is immediately expelled from among the primitive particles. When thus forced out it usually collects between the fibie and its sheath, raising the latter in the form of bulla; (figs. 301 and 302, and Art. Muscula it Motion). The progress of this in- teresting phenomenon evinces the adhesion that exists between the fibre and its sheath. The bullae immediately subside, by the transudation of their fluid, when the part is placed in thick syrup. I once met with a singular demonstration of the existence and properties of the sar- colemma, in finding it filled with nu- merous trichina (fig. 296), which had taken the place of the contractile ma- terial, the sheath preserving all its cha- racteristic beauty and transparency.* I discovered this remarkable mem- brane in Insects, Crustacea, and all the tribes of Vertebrata, in 1839, not knowing that Professor Schwann had pre- viously described it in connection with the de- velopment of muscle in Insects and Fish.f He believes it to be a persistent portion of the membrane of the original cells of de- * Anct. Ioc. cit. p. 480, pi. \ vii, figs. 41-5. t Mikros. Untcrsuch. p. 165. Fragments of an elementary fibre of the Skate, held together by the untorn but twisted sarcolemma. a, Sarcolemma. b, b, opposite fragments of the fibre.