(Nervous Actions.) 589 NERVOUS SYSTEM. nerves. This power is that of special sensibility. The nerves, which convey these impressions of special sensation to the mind, are incapable of responding in any other way, even to a me- chanical stimulus. When the retina is stimu- lated with the point of a needle, the sensation of a flash of light is produced : when the audi- tory nerve is excited by a mechanical impulse upon the tympanum, sound is heard. The mechanism (so to speak) of sensations of whatever kind is exactly in the reverse di- rection to that of voluntary motions. In the latter the change begins in the mind and ends in the body; in the former the impression is made first on the body and is conveyed to the mind. In both cases mental change, whether active or passive, is necessarily associated with the nervous act. There are other actions in which the mind is concerned, although the will does not take any share in them. These are, such as may be produced under the influence of those sudden, momentary, and involuntary mental changes, which are called emotions, and which may be excited, either by an impression conveyed to the mind from some external cause, through the senses, or by some change in the mind itself, arising in the train of its thoughts. Who has not felt the thrill which pervades every part of the frame, in listening to some harrowing tale of woe? or, when the imagination, in its mu- sings, conjures up before the mental vision some fearful scene of lamentation and wretched- ness? How keenly do the emotions of joy and sorrow, anger and pity, cause themselves to be felt at every point of the system. The blush of shame, the pale curling lip of anger, " the eye in a fine frenzy rolling," are al! examples of the emotions of the mind influencing bodily actions. The changes which the countenance undergoes in accordance with varying states of the mind result from the same cause. The will may acquire the power of controlling to a great extent this influence of emotion upon the ex- pression of the features; but to attain this faculty in great perfection requires great strength of will and frequency of exercise. Few men ever acquired such controul over the play of the features, and such power of resisting the influence of emotion as well as of imitating that influence, as Garrick and Talleyrand. The power of the emotions over the nervous system is shewn not merely in those actions which the will may controul, but also in others, which, as being in no degree voluntary, and therefore in a great measure disconnected from the animal functions, have been called organic. Upon none of these does emotion exert more influence than upon the circulation. In blush- ing, in the deadly paleness of the blood-de- serted cheek, in the cold sweat of fear, in the depression of the heart from syncope, we find unequivocal instances of actions of an involun- tary kind, produced by this influence. Many of the sensations which are felt in grief, fear, anxiety, or in the paroxysm of hysteria, are in a great measure due to local changes in the capillary circulation caused by the power of emotion over it. It would seem that there is | no part of the nervous system which mental emotion may not reach; and no fact is of more general application than this, to the explana- tion of the multifarious forms of morbid sen- sation. Of the physical nervous actions.—When the eyelid is raised so as to admit light suddenly to the bottom of the eye, the pupil instantly con- tracts, nor is the individual conscious of the change which is taking place hi it, and he is equally unable to controul or prevent it. The degree of contraction appears to be propor- tionate to the intensity of the stimulus. When a morsel of food is applied to the isthmus faucium, an action of deglutition is instantly induced. The palato-pharyngei mus- cles and the constrictors of the pharynx are immediately brought into play. This action is entirely involuntary, and cannot be controlled by the power of the will; it may be brought on even in the state of coma, when the indi- vidual is insensible to any external impression, and the fact is one of practical application, as shewing how persons in that state may be made to swallow by bringing the morsel into contact with the mucous membrane of the pharynx. Moreover it is an action which the will cannot imitate unless there be something to be swallowed. If the fauces be completely clear of any solid or fluid, this action cannot be performed; to call it into play, we instinctively bring mucus or saliva to tiie region of the fauces, and that stimulus brings about the required action. We have here, then, an instance of an action, which may take place despite of the will, which the will cannot imitate, which may be produced when con- sciousness and will are in abeyance: it is, there- fore, an action independent of the mind's in- fluence, and which may fairly be ascribed to a cause purely physical. The sudden application of cold to the surface of the body or to any part of it, more especially to the face, causes an immediate and involun- tary excitement of the muscles of respiration, and may be quoted as an instance of an action of similar kind to those mentioned in pre- ceding paragraphs. The will may control this action to a limited extent, but never entirely. A large number of movements in the living body, and especially of those which are com- monly called organic, might be referred to as examples of physical nervous actions, in which the stimulus acts independently of the mind. These actions may be produced by a physical change taking place in the nervous centre and propagated directly to the muscular texture of the part (the moving power), as in the case of convulsive movements produced by irritant dis- eases of a nervous centre; but the ordinary manner in which they are effected is by the application of a stimulus to a surface. Through afferent nerves this stimulus affects the nervous centre, and produces a change there, which excites certain other nerves proceeding from that centre to the organ in which the move- ment occurs. To take, as an example, the act of deglutition above referred to. The morsel of food stimulates certain nerves, the