646 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. Gret Nervous Matter.) Fig. 370. Dura mater of part of the spinal cord laid open to shotv the ligameiitum dentatum. d d d d, dentated processes. On the right the roots of the nerves and the gnnglia of the pjsterior roots are retained. all the characters of white fibrous tissue, of which it is chiefly composed. In its dentated processes, however, a considerable quantity of yellow fibrous tissue may be found. The simi- larity of its constitution with that of the pia mater evidently justifies its being regarded as a process of that membrane, and not, as some anatomists thought, of the dura mater, with which it has a much less intimate and extensive connexion. Its anterior and posterior surfaces are uncovered by any membrane; they are smooth, and have the glistening silvery appear- ance of white fibrous membrane. It is evident that during life these surfaces must be bathed by the subarachnoid fluid. The office of this remarkable structure seems evidently to be mechanical; to preserve the spinal cord in a state of equilibrium; and to prevent lateral movement of it, whilst at the same time it forms a partition between the roots of the nerves. General remarks on the structure of the nervous centres.—It has already been shewn in a former part of this article that the nerves properly so called are composed exclusively of one kind of nervous substance,—namely, the fibrous nervous matter, which is disposed in bundles of peculiar fibres. It is only in the nervous centres or in continuations of them that we find an union of the white and the grey nervous matter; and, indeed, it may be stated in general, that the peculiar and distinctive anatomical character of a nervous centre con- sists in this combination of the two kinds of nervous matter. In the nervous centres the white matter exhi- bits, for the most part, the same essential cha- racters of structure as in the nerves; that is to say, it is disposed in tubes containing a certain pulpy matter in them. It has been found, how- ever, that these tubes are much more prone to become varicose under the influence of pressure or of any other disturbing cause. They are not, as in the nerves, bound together by areolar tissue, but are disposed in bundles and on different planes, with their nutrient bloodvessels ramifying among them, and in some situations the elements of the grey matter are interposed between them. Certain parts of the nervous centres are composed exclusively of white matter, as a portion of the hemispheres of the brain, and of the cerebellum, and the superficial parts of the spinal cord. The white fibres which are found in the ner- vous centres may be distinguished according to their physiological office into four different kinds. Two of these are continuations of the fibres of the nerves, and serve to connect the nervous centres with other organs or textures, either by conveying the influence of the centres to them, or by propagating impressions from them to the centres. The former are called efferent, the latter afferent fibres. In addition to these, we find a third and large series of fibres, which serve to establish a connection between different centres, or between different portions of the same centre. These are called commissural fibres; they form a large portion of the mass of the brain and spinal cord. And Henle suggests that the brain contains a fourth series of fibres, associated with the operations of thought. We remark in the nervous centres, especially in the brain and spinal cord, a greater difference as regards size between the different nerve tubes, than may be observed elsewhere, and it seems to be a constant character that they diminish