MOTION. 471 their steps will equal the time of oscillation, and the case is nearly the same in a slower pace. We observe, therefore, that when children and grown persons, or tall and little men, are walk- ing together in the pace most easy and natural to them, they move in a different time. It is true the movements of the legs, like those of any other member, may be accelerated by means of the muscular force and made to move quicker than when they are merely impelled by their own gravity in swinging from behind forward, but when so continued an exercise of muscular power is required, such an unnatural pace cannot long be sustained. In the estimate already given of the forces which have an influence in walking, it will be observed that as long as the force of the exten- sion of the legs in a vertical direction upwards, is equal to that of gravity upon the body acting vertically downwards, the centre of gravity will move in a direction perfectly horizontal; but experience shows that as soon as the force of the extension of the supporting leg ceases, the centre of gravity falls below the horizontal path in which it was previously moving; but the instant the other leg stands perpendicularly it will rise again to its former level. The mathe- matical theory of walking proves that from the figure of the human machine there must of ne- cessity be a sinking of the centre of gravity in order that progression may be accomplished. By varying the time of the sinking of the body at the end of each step, the effect of the resist- ance of the air and other extraneous influences which would disturb the horizontal velocity of the trunk, are compensated. In a favourable wind, when it travels at a greater velocity than the walker, it is necessary he should increase the time of sinking to counteract its effect, and preserve a mean uniform motion. The application of mechanical principles does not accord with slow as it does with that of quick walking, for the former is too much under the control of the will of the walker, and the limbs are not suffered to swing freely by their own gravity as in quick walking, in which this volition diminishes, according to Weber, at least when the slightest exertion is continued for any length of time, and it is in this condition alone that theory and experiment nearly ap- proximate. We must, however, remember that the control exercised by the muscular system over the limbs in slow walking is a new force which animals are enabled to interpose in order to vary the effects which result from the physical laws in operation during locomotion, and by no means refutes the theory of the influence of those forces which affect, not only the locomotion of animals, but the motion of matter universally. Running.—The laws which regulate running in many of the lower animals, such as qua- drupeds and birds, are nearly the same as in Man. It will therefore be necessary to enter into the details of this movement in reference to the latter only. The principles upon which walking and running differ.—In running as in walking it may be considered as a fundamental law that the same motions of the body recur after each double step; and that both legs exercise equal and alternate actions in these movements. In running the object is to acquire a greater velo- city in progression than can be attained in walking. In order to accomplish this, instead of the body being supported on each leg alter- nately, the action is divided into two periods, during one of which the body is supported on one leg, and during the other it is not sup- ported at all. The latter condition constitutes the principal difference between these two modes of progression. When the body is pro- jected upwards so as to swing freely in the air, the hinder le? must be raised from the ground before the advanced swinging leg has reached the vertical position ; hence, in run- ning, the duration of the step is less than the half-duration of the oscillation of the leg, be- cause, when the advanced leg has reached the vertical position and is again placed on the ground, the hinder leg has already begun to describe a portion of its arc of oscillation. By these means the duration of the st^p is di- minished, whilst the length is increased, both of which tend to augment the velocity- The length of the step is consequently greater than that side of a right-angled triangle, whose hvpotheneuse is the extended leg, and the other side the elevation of the centre of gravity above the ground. In running the step may be divided into two periods; the first, the time t, during which the body is supported on one leg, and the second, the time t — t, during which it is not supported at all. Forces employed in, running. —The forces which act in runningara the same as in walking; first, extension; secondly, gravity; thirdly, resistance. In running, a horizontal move- ment of the centre of gravity is not practicable as in walking, for although the exten<or power might be so regulated that the centre should continue at the same elevation so long as the body poised on one leg, it would evidently fall during the time it was left unsupported. Now, as it is found after the whole time of a step to have neither sunk nor risen, and since no instantaneous elevation of the centre of gravity takes place between the termination of the pre- ceding and the commencement of the following step; it fo'lows that during the time t, it must ascend just as much as it sinks during the time t — t. The effects of gravity and resistance have been sufficiently explained in the theory of walking.* The conditions for regular progression in * By an analysis based on data similar to those for walking, Messrs. V\ eber have deduced the following equations which express the general laws of running. (h + s)a + c»/a — P (29; (A + «— Js fi-V+c2 <2 — l* (30) I T +B = 2 t — t (31) s - trU*-ty (33) T