LIFE. 148 its countless living inhabitants. Have we, then, any more reason to assume that a vital prin- ciple or organic agent governs the concerns of eacli of these beings, than to suppose that the Creator has delegated to a subordinate the care of each individual globe? Or is it not more consistent to suppose that upon the elements of all. He impressed those simple properties, from whose mutual actions, foreseen and pro- vided for in the laws according to which they operate, all the varieties of change which it was His intention to produce, should necessa- rily result? By another illustration of a different cha- racter we hope to set this point in a still clearer light, and to be able to dismiss the subject without entering upon it as an abstract question. We shall suppose a young physio- logist, entirely ignorant of physical science, but educated in implicit faith in the vital principle, witnessing for the first time the action of a steam-engine. Here he would perceive a ma- chine composed of a number of dissimilar parts connected together, and moving by some secret agency which he desires to unveil. We may imagine him trying various experiments upon its functions,—such as shutting off the communication between the boiler and the cy- linder, or between the cylinder and the con- denser,—or applying cold where heat should be, and kindling a fire under the cold-water cistern. Hence he may arrive at the just con- clusion that the actions performed by each part, when the machine was in regular opera- tion, have all a tendency towards one common object—the maintenance of its moving power. He will also perceive that these actions are as dissimilar as the structure of the parts exhi- biting them ; and he will not escape being sur- prised that the opposite influences of heat and cold should be essential to their production. Hence he may safely conclude that the whole series of phenomena is due to one presiding agency—a " steam-engine principle,"—by the operation of which upon the material structure, its actions are produced, and made to har- monize with each other, and with their ultimate object. And this conviction would be very much strengthened if he saw the machine en- dowed (as we may, for illustration, imagine quite possible) with the means of supplying its own wants,—regularly adding fuel to its fire, and cold water to its condensing cistern,—and even repairing for itself the loss it sustains by wear of material. Would such a person, en- tirely unacquainted with the properties of steam, be acting more unphilosophically in en- tertaining this notion, than in attributing the actions exhibited by living beings to the opera- tion of a vital principle ? We think not. In each case the machine or organism is framed to take advantage of the properties with which the Creator first endowed matter; and the dif- ference is that, while the design of man con- structed the first to bring into operation those properties which alone he can control, the de- sign of Omnipotence constructed the second, and adapted it todevelope properties of matter, which can only be exercised under the condi- tions which a living being supplies, and of which man, therefore, cannot avail himself. We may conclude, then, that if we can refer vital actions to the properties of the organs which exhibit them, called into operation by their appropriate stimuli, we do not require any other explanation of their mutual adapta- tion and dependence than the original design of the Creator. "No agent," it has been well remarked, " can be required to adjust and re- gulate the actions which ensue from this mu- tual adaptation, since they are, like all other phenomena in the universe, under the control of laws inseparable from their very existence." But the question next arises, by what means haveorganised bodies become possessed of these peculiar properties ? It is, as we have before remarked, a mere verbal alteration to attribute the vital actions of an organ to its peculiar pro- perties ; since we understand by these proper- ties only the capability of giving rise to the changes which we witness, and we only know of their existence by the observation of these changes. The real causes of the phenomena must be sought for in the events which were concerned in the formation of the structure, and its first endowment with the properties which it exhibits ; and this leads us to consider, IV. The connf.ction between vita- lity and organisation.— When our en- quiry into the laws of Physics terminates in referring any of its phenomena to the action of one of the universal properties of matter, we feel satisfied that we can trace the operation of second causes no higher; and that the existence of this property as inseparable from matter, and therefore as essential to our idea of it, is the immediate result of the will of the Creator. But in a great variety of instances we cannot do so; and we observe properties restricted to and inseparable from certain forms of matter, the laws of whose action, however, are as de- finite as in the first case. Such properties, therefore, form a part of our notion of those particular forms of matter ; thus, the magnetic properties of iron, or the energetic attraction which potassium has for oxygen, are characte- ristics of these substances, which combine with others to distinguish them in our minds from other forms of matter possessing many properties in common with them. But these properties will not be manifested except under peculiar conditions; and according to the ra- rity of the occurrence of those conditions will be the probability of our remaining ignorant of the property. We are obliged to admit, therefore, that every form of matter with which we are acquainted may have properties of which we know nothing, simply because it has not been placed in the circumstances adapted to call them into activity ; since it is only by an action of some kind that the mind can become cognisant of their existence. We see, then, that it is very possible that all matter, or at least all those forms of it capable of becoming organised, may be possessed of properties which shall give rise to the actions termed vital, when they are placed in certain condi- tions ; and that the mere absence of any mani-