PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. ?20u the motor nerve to the muscles of the features, and to the orbicular muscles of the eyelids. Clinical research, indeed, taken in conjunction with anatomy, forms the basis of our present accurate knowledge of the office of this nerve. In like manner we learn that loss of sensibility of the face is dependent on disease affecting the fifth nerve, and from the parts of the face which are affected by anaesthesia we can tell what portions of that great nerve are diseased. Here again anatomy and clinical medicine have mainly contributed to the advance of our know- ledge. The partial palsies which affect the muscles of the eye-ball likewise give very dis- tinct interpretation to the functions of these nerves, such as the third and sixth, the action of whose muscles is well understood. Many other instances might be quoted which clearly show that, while clinical medicine and anatomy are of infinite service in building up and con- firming our knowledge of the function of nerves, this knowledge, in its turn, does great service in increasing the facility with which we can distinguish disease. Of the functions of the roots of spinal nerves. —The greatest part of the body is supplied with nerves which are implanted in the spinal cord, or which, in anatomical language, have their origin in that nervous centre. As these nerves present very definite and constant cha- racters as regards the manner in which they are connected with the centre, characters which are not limited to the human subject, but which be- long to all classes of vertebrate animals, it was a point of primary importance to discover the object of an arrangement so peculiar as regards its anatomical characters, and so universal. To our countryman, Sir C. Bell, belongs the great merit of having seen the importance of deter- mining this point as a preliminary step in the investigations into the nervous system; and to him must be awarded the credit of having achieved the discovery of the difference in the endowment of the anterior and of the posterior roots of these nerves. He experimented on young rabbits, by removing the posterior wall of the spinal column. " On laying bare the roots of the spinal nerves," says Sir C. Bell, "I found that I could cut across the posterior fasciculus of nerves, which took its origin from the posterior portion of the spinal marrow, without convulsing the muscles of the back; but that, on touching the anterior fasciculus with the point of the knife, the muscles of the back were immediately convulsed." * Numerous experimenters, subsequent to Bell, obtained precisely similar results. Muller, * Sir C. Bell's first essay on this subject was printed in 1811. In 1822 Majendie published his first essay in the Journal de Physiologie Exp. t. iii; in 1831 Muller's experiments were published in the Annales des Sciences Nat. and in Kroriep's Notizen. Mr. Alexander Shaw has published a temperate and judicious vindication of SirC. Bell's claims in a volume entitled, " Narrative of the Discoveries of Sir C. Bell in the Nervous System." Lond. 1839. Valentin is so satisfied of Sir C. Bell's claim to the discovery of the distinct endowments of the roots of the spinal nerves, that he designates the law thereby determined by a title not very eupho- ttous to English ears, Lex .BeJ/iana. however, obtained the most decisive evidence of the proper functions of the roots of the nerves, by experimenting on frogs instead of on mam- malia; in the former the spinal canal is of great width, especially at its lower part, and the roots of the nerves can be exposed with great facility, whilst in the latter the operation is tedious, painful, and bloody, the spinal canal narrow, and the roots of the nerves small and difficult to get at. Moreover, the excita- bility of the nerves lasts very much longer in frogs than in mammalia, and on this account the former animals are well adapted for dis- playing the effects of section of the roots and the influence of mechanical and other stimuli upon them. In these experiments, (which I have frequently repeated with similar results,) irritation, mecha- nical orgalvanic, of the anterior root of the spinal nerve always provokes muscular contraction. No such effect follows irritation of the posterior root. Section of the anterior root causes para- lysis of motion; section of the posterior root, paralysis of sensation. This latter effect is shown by the entire insensibility to pain evinced on pinching a toe, whilst in the limb of which the posterior roots of the nerves remained en- tire such irritation is evidently felt acutely. If the anterior roots of the nerves which are dis- tributed to the lower extremities be cut on one side, and the posterior roots on the other, voluntary power without sensation will remain in the latter, and sensation without voluntary power in the former. Valentin, Seubert, Panizza, and Longet have performed similar experiments on mammiferous animals with precisely similar effects. I have never seen motion produced by irri- tation of one of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves still in connexion with the cord, except- ing when the galvanic stimulus has been ap- plied, and too strong a current has been em- ployed. Valentin states that he has observed motions so produced in rabbits, but not in frogs and tortoises. Dr. Hall has seen them in the turtle and skate. Van Deen speaks of them as constantly occurring. But Muller denies the power of the posterior roots to excite motion, except by " traction on the cord itself." No such effect ever follows any kind of stimulation of the posterior root when it has been separated from the cord. The conclusion which inevitably follows from these experiments is that the anterior root of each spinal nerve is motor, and the posterior sensitive. Comparative anatomy confirms this conclu- sion, by showing that a similar arrangement of the roots of spinal nerves prevails among all classes of vertebrate animals, and that if in any particular class either the motor or sensitive power predominate, there is in correspondence with it a marked developement of the anterior or posterior roots, The frequent occurrence, likewise, of paralysis of sensation and motion, as a consequence of disease within the spinal canal, also tends to the same inference. Kronenberg finds a small nerve of commu- nication between the posterior and the anterior root, which is looked upon by some as being