104 NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. articulation. The thyroid cartilage is united to the os hyoides by three ligaments: the mid- dle and two lateral. 1st. The ligamentum thyro-hyoideum medium is a lax yellow tissue arising from the superior margin of the thyroid, and inserted into the inner margin of the os hyoides : it is thicker and denser at its middle part; its lateral borders are involved with the surrounding cellular membrane. The anterior surface in its middle is situated immediately under the integuments, having its sides co- vered by the thyro-hyoidei muscles, (g, fig. 25) and its posterior surface corresponding with the form of the epiglottis. 2d. The ligamenta hyo-thyroidea lateralia are small round liga- ments on each side of the larynx, connecting the tubercles of the great horns of the os hy- oides with the extremities of the superior cor- nua of the thyroid cartilage (c c. Jig. 24). In the substance of these ligaments there are often found small osseous or cartilaginous bodies. The articulations of the thyroid cartilage Fig. 24. A mesial section of the larynx, from Lauth. The mucous membrane and muscles are removed to expose the elastic ligaments. a, the epiglottis; b, the hyo-epiglotticligaments; c e, the lateral thyro-hyoid ligaments ; e, a portion of the glosso-epiglottic ligament; /, the crico-thy- roid ligament; g i, the junction of the crico-thy- roid, and lateral crico-thyroid ligament; n, the attachment of the lateral crico-thyroid ligaments to the base of the arytenoid cartilage ; n, the elas- tic ligament lining the bottom of the ventricles ; o, the superior inner margin of the cricoid cartilage ; the lateral ligamentous connection with the inferior vocal cord ; the superior vocal cord ; the right arytenoid cartilage. with the os hyoides are furnished with syno- vial membranes. The ligaments of the epiglottis.—The epi- glottis gives attachment to three ligaments, which contribute to its elasticity and the stabi- lity of its position. 1. The ligamentum thyro-epiglottideum arises from the mesial line below the notch of the superior angle of the thyroid, and is inserted into the base of the epiglottis. It binds the epiglottis to the thyroid cartilage. 2d. The ligamentum hyo-tpiglottideum arises from the inner surface of the base of the os hyoides; its fibres passing horizontally are inserted into the anterior surface of the epiglottis; its action tends to keep the position of the epiglottis per- manently vertical. 3d. The ligamentum glosso- epiglottideum arises from the base of the tongue; it lies in the median mucous folds be- tween the tongue and epiglottis, and is inserted into the anterior surface of the epiglottis im- mediately above the ligamentum hyo-epiglot- tideum. Its action is nearly the same as that of the last-named ligament, but it is also con- nected with the motions of the base of the tongue. The tracheo-cricoidean articulation.— The lower margin of the cricoid cartilage is arti- culated with the first ring of the trachea by a series of the same ligamentous fibres which connect the rings of the trachea with each other. At the anterior mesial base of the cricoid there are found additional ligamentous fibres. The elastic tissue which connects the larynx with the trachea permits considerable freedom in the multiplied movements of the neck without im- peding the regular transmission of the atmos- phere. In these movements the first ring of the trachea passes within the inferior margin of the cricoid cartilage. The intrinsic articulations of the larynx are, 1st, the crico-thyroid ; 2d, the crico-arytenoid. Besides these may be included the articulation of the arytenoid with the cartilages of Santorini. The cuneiform cartilages are generally unarticu- lated in man. The crico-thyroid articulation.—The inferior cornua of the thyroid are curved forwards and inwards. Their extremities present oblique planes directed inwards and downwards, which are firmly attached by a capsular ligament to the oblique discs on the sides of the cricoid, directed upwards and outwards. The ligament of this joint is of an orbicular form, radiating in oblique fasciculi, the pos- terior fibres of which extend nearly to the crico- arytenoid articulation. The crico-thyroid ligament. Syn. Pyrami- dal, or conoid ligament. Lat. Ligamentum crico-thyroideum. Pr. Membrane, on liga- ment thyro-cricoidien moyen. The crico- thyroid ligament is a very thick, strong, yellow elastic ligament, arising from the mesial line of the inferior margin of the thyroid; it then crosses the crico-thyroid space, and is inserted into the superior mar- gin of the cricoid. This ligament supports the anterior part of the cricoid cartilage, and