ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 51 are usually ushered in by a severe rigor followed fay perspiration. The patient is remarkably restless and depressed in mind. If the phle- bitis be external, as in that occasionally succeed- ing to venesection, which has preceded the acute arthritis, the inflammation along the course of the wounded vein will be observed for several days before the attack of arthritis shall come on. Whatever may have been the cause of the inflammation of the joints, the disease does not, as in rheumatic fever, pass successively from joint to joint, completely leaving one joint to visit another. Although varieties may of course be noticed in the local symptoms which this dangerous disease presents, it very con- stantly happens that a joint once visited by it seldom or never completely recovers its effects. Usually many joints are successively or simul- taneously affected, and we very generally dis- cover that one or more of the internal organs is also implicated. Whatever joint is attacked in the course of the disease, it presents the ordinary characters of an acute arthritis. The integu- ments covering the articulation sometimes wear a pink hue, and always have an elevated temperature. The affected limb is powerless. The patient complains of very considerable pain, more particularly, as it appears to us, in puerperal arthritis than in the affections of the joints which attend on the ordinary forms of diffuse inflammation. The swelling, when first examined, is soft and fluctuating. After a time the effusion of synovial fluid and pus increases, giving rise to the distension of the synovial sac. If at this advanced period we carefully examine the parts immediately surrounding the inflamed joint, we can discover that the integuments and subjacent parts feel somewhat indurated and cedematous, reminding us of the hardened basis which we find circumscribing an abscess. It is probable that this condition of the surrounding parts arises from diffuse inflammation and the infiltration of its digested purulent matter. The arthritis in these cases is seldom the cause of death ; either some internal vital organ be- comes violently inflamed by which the death of the patient is accelerated, or abscesses form in the subcutaneous or intermuscular cellular membrane in various parts of the body, which, although more slowly, as certainly lead to a fatal issue, for when the evacuation of the pus takes place, the quantity of matter which is dis- charged and continues to be secreted is so excessive as greatly to reduce the patient's strength, and the exhaustion from this source and from the diarrhoea which usually attends are sufficient to prostrate the powers of the youngest and strongest individuals. Most writers indeed have observed that in the majority of cases the subjects of this disease had been in a bad slate of health at the time the exciting cause came into action,—a cachectic condition produced by over-exertion of mind or body, and that from these circumstances the susceptibility or pre- disposition to this disease most probably arose.* These observations are, we believe, fully borne out by experience, and it may not * See Dr. Beatty, Dublin Journal, &c. perhaps be uninteresting to adduce some remarks published by an author nearly forty years ago, which prove that he was practically acquainted with the complaint denominated by the moderns puerperal rheumatism or puerperal arthritis, and that he took a similar view of the predisposing causes of this disease. Mr. Russell in his work on the knee-joint, in treat- ing of acute cases of what he calls white swelling, says : " in those cases which proceed most rapidly, the disease will reach its acme in the course of a few weeks." The very rapid and acute cases seem to be connected with some state of great relaxation and weakness. He adds, " the most remarkable instances of this variety which have fallen under my observation, have occurred in the cases of women in child- bed." In the Richmond Hospital (Dublin) we had had many cases of this form of acute arthritis, from which we select the two following as serving to illustrate some of the foregoing observations. Both these individuals were in a delicate state of health when the disease attacked them, and the swelling of the knee-joints and other articulations formed a very small part of their diseases. Andrew Turner, 28 years of age, was ad- mitted into the Richmond Hospital on the 7th of May, 1836. He had much abused his health and constitution. Five days after having been bled in the right arm to relieve the con- sequences of a severe beating, a superficial dif- fused redness appeared on the skin of the fore- arm ; the venesection wound was swelled and inflamed ; a severe rigor occurred, followed by profuse perspiration and fever; erratic erysipelas characterized by a faint red mottling of the skin in patches appeared ; a blush of inflammation in the form of a patch showed itself on the shoulder, but not continuous with that on the fore-arm ; a pink patch next appeared over the right knee, then on the left arm, and afterwards on the left lower extremity ; and while this dis- ease invaded the body part after part, those once occupied remained engaged as before. On the 15th May, the ninth day from his ad- mission, there was observed effusion into the right knee and into the bursa which is subjacent to the crurceus muscle. Although considerable, this effusion escaped the patient's attention ; he complained of no pain, and to our enquiries always replied that he was going on " gaily." On the 18th the left knee-jomt was tumefied, but not to the same extent as the right. He died on the 26th, his death being preceded by the ordinary symptoms of pneumonia, pleu- ritis, &c. On the post-mortem examination the anatomical appearances of pneumonia, pleuritis, and bronchitis were seen ; there was also effu- sion into the cavities of the pericardium and peritoneum. In the right knee-joint and sub- cutaneous bursa, which freely communicated with it, there was a large quantity of yellowish green fluid, which seemed to be formed of the mixture of purulent matter with the synovial fluid : flakes of lymph floated in it. The syno- vial lining of the subcrurceus bursa was very red, as was also that of the joint itself. The synovial membrane was elevated above the level e 2