NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Comparative Anatomy.) 620 the mass of nervous matter, it is greatly in favour of the spinal marrow, though, as regards complexity of structure, the brain preponde- rates. Again, the extreme smallness of this latter compared to the rest of the body, the simple formation of the different masses com- posing it, and the predominance of the median one, (which in the lower animals is the only one developed,) are points that also mark its low degree of developement. Still the ground- work of the most important structures has been laid, and we shall trace these identical parts in the succeeding classes of animals through vari- ous modifications of form and phases of deve- lopement. 2 and 3. Amphibia and Reptilia.—We now proceed to the Amphibia, the Batrachia of Cuvier, which, in a system of arrangement, must be considered as a class distinct from the true Reptilia; but their nervous system pre- senting so great a similarity in structure and conformation to that class, and, indeed, differ- ing only in an inferiority of developement, we will, to save time and space, notice the two classes of Amphibia and true Reptilia con- jointly. The nervous system in these animals bears a great similarity in structure and deve- lopement to the fishes. The spinal cord presents much the same cha- racter as in the class just described, with regard to its relative size, its extent, (excepting in the frog,) and its physical conformation. In a species of Triton weighing 39 grains, the spinal marrow weighed J grain, and the brain only \ gram, the proportion being as 100 to 180. We thus observe that the weight of the spinal mar- row preponderates over that of the brain, al- though not to so great an extent as in the fishes, in consequence of the increased developement of the latter. In most of the Amphibia, and in all the Reptilia, the spinal cord passes down the whole length of the caudal vertebrae, as in the fishes, but to this the frog forms an excep- tion. In that animal it descends no lower in its adult state than barely midway between the anterior and posterior extremities, and termi- nates by a few nervous filaments, which pass downwards towards the sacrum ; in the young and tadpole state, however, it is prolonged into the coccygeal vertebra;, and terminates in a point. The form and structure of the spinal cord, and of the medulla oblongata, differ but little from what has been described in the fishes. In the triton and frog there is a lon- gitudinal fissure on its anterior and posterior aspects and a central canal communicating with the cavity of the fourth ventricle which is very large, covered over by a vascular plexus, is formed in the same manner, and bears great resemblance to the fourth ventricle described in the lamprey: in the lumbar region the spinal cord is thickened where the nerves of the extremities are given off; in the tadpole state, however, no such enlargement is visible. Amongst the true Reptilia, in the ringed snake (Coluber matrix), lizard (Lacerta viridisj, and turtle ( Testudo myda$,fig. 353), the spinal cord has an anterior and posterior longitudinal fis- sure, and a central canal {g) communicating with the fourth ventricle (/(), which in the ringed snake and lizard is small, but deep ; in the turtle, large, but shallow, and partly co- vered in by the cerebellum. According to Bojanus,* the spinal cord in the Chelonia be- comes enlarged where the nerves for the ante- rior and posterior extremities are given off, and very thin between those enlargements. Carusf has observed the same enlargements, but in a less degree, in a young crocodile. The brain is composed of a suite of ganglia approaching very much in form and character to the fishes, especially the Rays and Sharks. In the triton (Triton cristata), frog (Rana temporaria), viper (Coluber verus), ringed snake (Coluber natrix), lizard (Lacerta viridis; fig. 354), and turtle (Testudo mydas,/g. 353), Fig. 353. a> first cerebral mass or cerebral hemispheres. b*, first cerebral mass cut open, shewing its inter- nal cavity and tubercle. b, second cerebral mass or optic lobe. c*> second cerebral mass cut open, shewing the small inter- nal cavity, c, third cere- bral mass or cerebellum, turned slightly upwards. f, posterior longitudinal V fissure of spinal cord, g, I§-"^ central canal of spinal cord. h, fourth ventri- cle, i, olfactory nerve. k, bulbous enlargement at the origin of the olfac- tory nerve cut open,shew- ing its internal cavity. I, bristle shewing the communication between the cavity of the olfactory nerve and the cerebral hemisphere, m, bristle shewing the communica- tion between the cavity of the optic lobe and the fourth ventricle, n, bris- tle passed along the cen- tral canal of the spinal cord, o, bristle passed under the cerebellum to raise it upwards, to shew the fourth ventricle more distinctly. Brain and portion of spinal marrow of Testudo mydas (turtle J, about natural size. it fills the cranial cavity destined to receive it, though that cavity is very small when compared with the whole head ; thus the size of the head is no criterion for the size of the brain. Its weight, too, when compared with the body, is another proof of its small size. In a turtle weighing upwards of 50 pounds, the brain (with the olfactory nerves, and a very small portion of the spinal marrow), weighed only 77 grains, the proportions being as 100:454,500; and, as before observed, in a triton weighing 39 grains, the brain weighed only \ grain, the pro- portions being as 100 : 27,300. On taking a general review of its structure, we find, as before, three principal parts to oc- * Anatome testudinis European, f Op. cit. vol. i, p. 78.