IRRITABILITY. 10 irritability is diminished, and at length becomes extinct, from its source being cut off. We may further deduce, from the facts which have been detailed, that the spinal marrow and not the cerebrum is the special source of the power in the nerves of exciting muscular con- traction, and of the irritability of the muscular fibre; that the cerebrum is, on the contrary, the exhauster, through its acts of volition, of the muscular irritability. As a further deduction from the same facts, we may infer the diagnosis between cerebral and spinal paralysis: mere cerebral paralysis is attended by augmented irritability, whereas spinal paralysis is that which is attended by diminished irritability. This fact will prove useful in many obscure cases. Having thus cleared up the physiological question, I proceed to the application of the principle to pathology ; and I may here observe that there is a whole series of phenomena which admit of explanation by its aid. And, first, the exception to the rule of aug- mented muscular irritability in paralytic limbs, is obviously dependent upon its existing in the cases of paralysis from the severed influence of the spinal marrow, as distinguished from those arising from the severed influence of the cere- brum merely. Secondly, we understand at once why the influence of strychnine is first and most seen in cerebral paralysis in the paralytic limbs. But there are still some other points which I must bring before the notice of the reader. The first of these is the influence of emotion in paralytic limbs. The second is the similar influence of certain acts of respiration; as yawning, sneezing, coughing, &c. The third, the similar influence of the tonic power. It must have occurred to us all to observe the influence of surprise or agitation on the arm and hand, and perhaps on the leg, of a patient long affected by hemiplegia, whilst the limbs of the healthy side remained unaffected. In this case the influence of the emotion is, like that of strychnine in the case formerly discussed, exerted equally upon the limbs of both sides; but it is the muscles of the paralytic limbs which are most irritable, most susceptible of the stimulus ; it is, therefore, these limbs which are most convulsively affected. The same phenomenon is not observed in paraplegia, because the influence of the emotion is cut off from the affected limbs. Cuse 1.— I was called to a patient a short time ago, affected at that moment with bron- chitis. He was forty-three years of age, and at the age of twenty-four had been seized with hemiplegia. Recovering from the immediate danger of the attack, he remained hemiplegic, scarcely regaining the use of the hand and arm at all, and only partially that of the leg. Whenever this patient is excited by meeting an acquaintance, or in any similar way, he has a little strabismus, and the hand and arm are contracted and convulsed in the most extraor- dinary manner: whenever he coughs, the leg is thrown involuntarily upwards. The arm is severed, as it were, from volition, but affected by emotion. Similar facts have been observed in regard to the influence of certain respiratory acts, but especially those of yawning, sneezing, &c. Dr. Abercrombie details the following inte- resting case in a note to the late Mr. Shaw. " 1 think the following case will be interest- ing to you and Mr. Bell. I had some time ago under my care, a man affected with hemi- plegia of the left side; the palsy complete, with- out the least attempt at motion, except under the following circumstances : he was very much affected with yawning, and every time he yawned the paralytic arm was raised up, with a firm steady motion, until it was at right angles with his body (as he lay in bed on his back), the fore-arm a little bent inwards, so that his hand was above his forehead at its greatest elevation. The arm was raised steadily during the inspiration, and when the expiration began seemed to drop down by its own weight, with considerable force. He continued liable to the affection for a considerable time, and it ceased gradually as he began to recover the natural motion of the limb."—That is, as I conclude, as the state of augmented irritability was re- moved by the returning acts of volition. Not less interesting are the effects of the tonic power. In cases of hemiplegia of long duration, the paralytic limbs, but especially the arms and hands, are drawn into a state of chronic, rigid, contraction. This phenomenon is owing to the principle of tone constantly acting upon muscles now possessing augmented irritability, whilst they are never, or rarely, relaxed by acts of volition. A similar effect is seen in idiots born with atrophied cerebrum: the influence of volition is wanting; that of the spinal marrow, the source, at once, of the tone and of the irrita- bility of the muscular system, is in constant action, and induces chronic contraction, an effect which must, however, be distinguished from that of spasm, which is excited imme- diately by some disease of the spinal marrow itself. I may now resume the subject of the action of strychnine on paralytic limbs. It is obvious that the generalization of M. Fouquier, M. Se- galas, and others, that the strychnine attacks the paralytic rather than the healthy limbs, was too hasty. This is only true in those cases of paralysis in which the muscles still remain in nervous connexion with the spinal marrow; the opposite result is observed in those other cases in which such connection between the muscles and the spinal marrow is intercepted. I would here make another observation. The arms and hands, generally speaking, are more under the influence of the cerebrum than the lower extremities; and these, on the other hand, are more under the influence of the spinal marrow than the arms and hands. The superior extremities are more and more fre- quently affected by hemiplegia than the inferior; these are more influenced by tetanus, by strychnine, &c. than the former, a fact which