122 ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. Ihe product of cicatrization, and the place which should have been occupied by the broad por- tion of the cricoid cartilage exhibits an empty cavity, as if that structure had been removed by absorption or some other process, and nothing deposited in its room. One of the pa- tients on whom 1 operated in the year 1829 died about a year since in the Fever Hospital, and the larynx was examined by the surgeon of that institution, Mr. Trant; it presented ap- pearances so nearly similar to the above as not to require particular detail, and quite sufficient to shew that the original destruction had been such as totally to preclude the possibility of the organ ever being capable subsequently of performing the ordinary function of respi- ration. The cartilages of the larynx are also liable to mortification following on inflammation, and apparently produced by the causes that induce gangrene in other structures. I suppose this affection to be extremely rare, as I have met with but two cases, and have not heard of its being- observed by others. In one of these cases a large abscess existed in front of the larynx and upper part of the trachea, in which the thyroid cartilage lay like a foreign substance entirely denuded, mortified, and abominably offensive, its appearance resembling that of wetted rotten leather. The front of the cricoid cartilage and of the two upper rings of the trachea had been removed by mortification also. The lining membrane of the larynx was thickened, corru- gated, and had a granular appearance ; part of it was ulcerated, through which the abscess had communicated with the pharynx. The remnant of this larynx is preserved in the pathological collection of the School in Park-street, and shews that at least five-eighths of the organ had been totally and entirely destroyed. It proves that such a disease must be utterly hopeless and irremediable, and that, quite independent of the constitutional derangement that must lead to its formation and accompany its progress, no chance could exist of cicatrization and subse- quent recovery. Occasionally, although I should suppose very rarely, the cartilages of the larynx are the sub- jects of an alteration of structure strongly re- sembling the ordinary product of scrofula. Of this I have seen but one specimen, for which I am indebted to the kindness of my friend Dr. Benson. December, 1838. A man, set. 39, was received into the City of Dublin Hospital, under the care of Dr. B. for the treatment of what was considered to be chronic rheumatism. It was soon discovered that the pains were not rheumatic, but most probably depended on cerebral disease. The larynx presented a firm tumour externally, and there was an almost total loss of voice. He died, and after death scrofulous tubercles were discovered in the brain. The lauynx was of a healthy structure in every part except in the thyroid cartilage, the aire of which were converted into a firm scrofu- lous mass, about the size of a large chesnut on each side. The scrofulous or tubercular matter appeared to have been deposited originally in the centre of each ala. The margins and cor- nua of the cartilage were unaltered, and the cartilaginous structure seemed to lose itself in- sensibly on the surface of the tumour. This very interesting preparation is preserved in the Museum of the Royal College of Sur- geons in Ireland. Besides these deviations from the ordinary healthy conditions of the cartilages of the la- rynx, it is certain that one at least of them pre- sents appearances of abnormal changes both of size and shape. Morbid thickening or hyper- trophy of the epiglottis, as well as its opposite state of contraction or shrivelling, have been spoken of by authors, but I have never been fully satisfied that the former of these was not rather the result of a thickened condition of the mucous membrane than of the cartilage itself, and I believe the latter never is seen unless as the consequence of previous ulceration. A de- viation from its usual shape is by no means very uncommon in this cartilage, most instances of which are trivial and unimportant, and are probably congenital; but in some few instances the change is more remarkable. One of these has been noticed by Dr. Stokes in the chapter of his work which treats of diseases of the la- rynx and trachea, and by him it is termed the. leaf-like expansion of the epiglottis. He de- scribes it thus : " This has not been described by any author, but a most remarkable preparation of "the disease exists in the Museum of the School of Anatomy and Medicine in Park- street. The epiglottis is thinned and singularly elongated, and its form so altered as to repre- sent the shape of a battledore, the narrow ex- tremity being next the glottis. In the prepara- tion alluded to it is fully two inches in length, and coincides with double perforating ulcers of the ventricles. Nothing is known as to the history of the case, but I have seen more or less of a similar alteration in other cases of la- ryngeal disease." In a paper professedly devoted to abnormal anatomy, I know not whether I am warranted in noticing derangements of function, unat- tended by any lesion of structure discoverable by dissection, yet there are some of these ex- hibited by the epiglottis which seem deserving of the attention of the physiologist. The use ascribed to this cartilage of protecting the la- rynx during the process of deglutition is well known, yet observation has furnished us with examples of exceptions to this use, both posi- tively and negatively ; for, as when this valvular structure is altogether removed (by experiment in animals and by disease in man), the larynx is nevertheless often found able to protect itself, and the subject to swallow bothliquidsand solids without much, and occasionally without any in- convenience, so, on the other hand,it is a fact which cannot be controverted, that the epiglottis sometimes seems to be deprived of its protec- tive sensibility, and permits the free introduction into the windpipe of substances attempted to be swallowed. This latter fact I first noticed in the case of a Wapiti deer which was bronchoto- mized by Sir Philip Crampton : it frequently discharged portions of its food through the wound, and yet after death the larynx in all its