NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Cerebrospinal Fluid.) 643 some time occasioned a preternatural amount of pressure.* Majendie infers, and as it appears to me with justice, that the cerebro-spinal fluid is secreted from the vessels of the pia mater. He states that, when a portion of the pia mater is exposed in a living animal, " an attentive eye may observe the transpiration of a liquid which evaporates, it is true, almost as soon as it appears, but which is sufficient to prevent the drying of the membrane." "To render this phenomenon of vital physics still more manifest," he adds, " it is necessary to inject a certain quantity of water, at 30° R., into the veins of the animal which is subjected to the experiment; immediately the liquid exhalation of the pia mater takes place in a more rapid manner, and consequently becomes more ap- parent." We ought to be content with M. Majendie's statement respecting this experi- ment : the point in question is by no means of sufficient consequence to warrant the repetition of so cruel an experiment. Majendie's experiments have demonstrated further that this fluid can be as quickly rege- nerated as the aqueous humour of the eye. He found that on puncturing the theca of the spinal cord, and perforating both layers of arachnoid membrane, the fluid quickly escapes at first as a fine continuous jet, and afterwards per solium in correspondence with the efforts of expiration. If the orifice be closed up and the animal left to go at large for twenty-four hours, the fluid is reproduced in as conside- rable quantity as before the first experiment. What has been described as the movement of this liquid consists in an alternate elevation and collapse synchronous with expiration and inspiration, seen only when a portion of the cranio-spinal wall has been removed, and caused by the repletion of the venous system of the spine which occurs in the former state of the respiratory movements, and its collapse which takes place in the latter. The distended spinal veins compress the cerebro-spinal fluid, and cause it to rise towards the head in expi- ration ; their collapse in inspiration favours the movement of the fluid in the contrary direction. We have no evidence from experi- ment or direct observation that there is any movement in the fluid of the ventricles; but the discovery of cilia upon the inner surface of these cavities seems to indicate that this fluid is not quite stationary within them. The following account of the physical and chemical properties of the cerebro-spinal fluid is derived from Majendie's researches. When removed from the body a few moments after death, this fluid is remarkably limpid, and may be compared in this respect to the aqueous humour of the eye; sometimes it has a slightly yellowish tinge. In temperature it ranks among the hottest parts of the body. It has a sickly odour and a saltish taste; it is alkaline, restoring the blue colour of reddened litmus. * See an important paper by the late Dr. Sims on serous effusion in the brain, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xix. Lassaigne's analysis of the human fluid yielded the following result. Water 98.564 Albumen 0.088 Osmazome 0.474 Hydrochlorate of soda and ) Q „q| of potass S Animal matter and phos- ) „ „.-,,. , . „ . 1 > 0.030 phate of soda } Carbonate of soda and phos-^ 0 017 phate of lime S 99.980 According to M. Couerbe, some of the secon- dary organic products which he has obtained from the brain are to be found in this fluid. The following constituents are enumerated by this chemist: 1. an animal matter insoluble in alcohol and ether, but soluble in alkalis; 2. albumen; 3. cholesterine ; 4. cerebrate; 5. chloride of sodium; 6. phosphate of lime; 7. salts of potass ; 8. salts of magnesia. What is the use of the cerebro-spinal fluid? An obvious mechanical use of this fluid is to protect the nervous centres with which it lies in immediate contact. By the interposition of a liquid medium between the nervous mass and the wall of the cavity in which it is placed, provision is made against a too ready con- duction of vibrations from the one to the other. Were these centres surrounded by ma- terial of one kind only, the slightest vibrations or shocks would be continually felt, but when different materials on different planes are used, the surest means are provided to favour the dispersion of such vibrations. The nervous mass floats in the midst of this fluid, being maintained in equilibrio in it by its uniform pressure on all sides, and the spinal cord, as we shall find by-and-bye, is supported by an additional mechanism which prevents its lateral displacement. By its accumulation at the base of the brain, this fluid must protect the larger vessels and the nerves situate there from the unequal pres- sure of neighbouring parts. It is not improbable also that this fluid may contribute to the nutrition of the brain and spinal cord, by holding in solution their proper nutrient elements preparatory to their absorption or addition to the nervous masses themselves; and this view would receive great support if Couerbe's analysis, which detects some of these elementary matters in the fluid, should be con- firmed by the observations of other chemists. Nor must we omit to notice here, the fact as- certained by Majendie, that when certain sub- stances which find their way readily into the blood have been injected into the veins, they may be soon after detected in this fluid, such as iodide of potassium. Majendie observed serious symptoms to ensue upon the removal of this fluid from living dogs, but it is impossible to ascribe such symptoms solely to this cause, for the intro- duction of air into the subarachnoid cavity, the disturbance and consequent irritation to which the nervous centres must necessarily be ex