514 MUSCLE. indications of a regular arrangement in gra- nules are usually to be met with. It is com- mon for the longitudinal lines to become well- defined before the transverse ones. When both are strongly marked, as is always the case at birth, the nuclei of the cells, which were before visible, disappear, being shrouded from view by the dark shadows caused by the mul- titudinous refractions of the light transmitted through the mass of granules; but, as before stated, they can still be shown to exist by im- mersion in a weak acid, which, while it swells the fibrinous material of the granules and obliterates their intervening lines, has no action upon the nuclei. b. Of the unstriped elementary fibres.—This variety possesses far less interest"than the other in consequence of its apparent simplicity of structure. The fibres consist of flattened bands, generally of a pale colour, bulged at frequent intervals by elongated corpuscles similar to those of striped muscle, and capable of being displayed by the same process (fig. 298). The texture of these fibres seems to be homoge- neous. By transmitted light they have usually a soft, very finely mottled aspect, and without a darkly-shaded border. Sometimes the mot- tling is so decided as to appear granular, and occasionally these granules are arranged in a linear series for some distance. This condition is probably an approximation towards the struc- ture of the striped fibre, for I have observed the granules to be about the size of the sarcous elements already described. It is generally to be seen more or less distinctly in the gizzard of Birds, and I have now and then met with it in the fresh muscle of the stomach, intestinal canal, urinary bladder, and uterus of Mam- malia. The ordinary diameter of the unstriped Fig. 293. Unstriped elementary fibres from the human cohn. a, treated with acetic acid, and shewing the cor- puscles. 6, fragment of a detached fibre, not touched with acid. fibre is from ^th to g^th of an inch. From this account of the appearance of these fibres, it might be expected that their discrimination from other tissues would be often difficult. And, in fact, it is so to an inexperienced eye. The peculiar texture, however, the size, the soft margin, and, above all, the presence of nume- rous elongated oval corpuscles, with two or three granules in their centre, are characters which, taken together, I believe to be decisive. As a number of fibres usually take a parallel course together, the bulgings occasioned by the corpuscles give rise to partial longitudinal shadows, extending for some way beyond the corpuscles, in the intervals of the fibres. As these irregular longitudinal shadows occur pretty uniformly throughout an aggregation of fibres, and as some are necessarily out of focus, while others are in focus, the whole mass com- monly presents a very confused reticulate ap- pearance, which has given rise to an almost universal notion that these fibres do, in reality, interlace one with another, and do not run parallel. This notion, however, is, in most cases, erroneous. It is doubtful whether these fibres are invested in a sarcolemma: none has hitherto been detected in an unequivocal man- ner. It is also still a matter of speculation how they terminate, or whether they in all instances have a termination. In the case of the more or less circular set of fibres, inclosing the small intestine, for example, it is uncertain whether each fibre surrounds the canal once, returning into itself as a ring, or, more than once, as a spiral, or whether it passes only par- tially round it, the rest of the circle being completed by others. Whether the areolar tissue (the representative of the fibrous) that is always found in connection with these fibres, serves to give them an attachment by union with their extremities, or by involving them in its meshes, is also altogether unknown. In the gizzard of Birds the ends of the fibres are united to white fibrous tissue, thus making an approximation to the striped fibre, as they do in colour. But I have not been able, after diligent search, to detect the true transverse stripes, which Ficinus describes to exist in this organ. Of the mode of aggregation of the elemen- tary fibres.—The two kinds of fibre whose structure has now been described, are aggre- gated into masses of very various shape and bulk, and supplied with areolar tissue, vessels and nerves, so as together to form the organs termed muscles. But if we trace these organs downwards through the animal scale, we come to examples in which solitary fibres exist with- out any such appendages, and yet evidently performing the office of, and truly constituting, a perfect muscle. And even many fibres are found, so far smaller than the usual dimen- sions as to consist of only one or two linear series of sarcous elements, and these perhaps only visibly present near the centre of the fibre, where developement is most advanced, and the contractile energy greatest. In such minute and simple forms we may perceive a transition from the striped towards the unstriped fibre,