MUSCLE. 510 gularly one in front of the other, as a little consideration will shew. Hence the latter seldom seem so definite or regular as the former. Nevertheless their union, seen on the surface of a detached disc, often presents much regularity, and forms curved or straight lines, such as result when a number of balls of equal size are huddled together on a level. It may be concluded from what has now been advanced, that the discs and tibrilla-, (or, in other words, the general mass of the fibre,) are made up of a number of particles, which I have termed primitive particles, or sarcous elements, and which would be obtained in a detached form by a general separation occur- ring along the transverse and longitudinal lines visible in the fibre. The existence of these particles, as well as their form and size, is in- dicated in the structure of the fibre, while yet entire; but they are united together, and have no independent existence, each being by its very nature a part of the mass, which is ren- dered incomplete by the removal of a single element. It results also from this descrip- tion that these particles have no definite outline on all their aspects, being united together; and that they only obtain such an outline on being severed ; on which account it is perhaps impossible to say whether, in the perfect fibre, they be rounded, square, or polygonal. An example of the strong lateral union of these particles to one another was presented by the specimen from which the following sketch was taken. It consisted of two or three ele- mentary fibres from the leg of a newly-born rabbit, which had been kept for some months in weak spirit. They were lying in a curved form on the field of the microscope, and pre- sented on the convex edge transverse series of Fig. 289. the particles, which, hav- ing lost their longitudinal while they retained then- lateral union, stood out in relief, as represented in fig. 289, a, a, a. It sometimes happens that a linear series of them (a fibrilla) is separated, which has the appearance of a necklace of beads, with constricted intervals, while at other times the intervals, though dark, are of equal width with the light or highly refracting particles. Again, it is pos- sible, by steeping in acid a transverse section of a dried muscle, to separate KMj LI I U/ll til III lf\J,l l/K ,,* cles, others have be-the particles considerably come detached. from one another, and to see that they are granules acting as lenses, being much more refractive than the material connecting them. Such transverse sections are an artificial division into discs, and the intervals between the par- ticles widen out most in specimens taken from birds (fig. 290). In the intervals between the projecting parti Fig. 290. Transverse section of three elementary fibres of the dried pectoral muscle of the Teal, (Querquedula crecca,) treated with weak citric acid, shewing the round refracting particles separated from one ano- ther. The cut edge of the tubular sheath of each fibre is also seen. It is in these sarcous elements that the con- tractile power resides, and, as they are apt to retain afier death the varying effects of the con- traction they have undergone during the rigor mortis, it is not easy to give an exact measure- ment of their size or shape. An average drawn from very numerous observations shews, how- ever, that they are very nearly alike in these respects in all animals and at all periods of life. Their diameter in the longitudinal direction of the fibre, as indicated by the distance between the transverse lines, is thus shown to be :* No. of Eng.Inch. Observations. In the Human subject. . ^ .. 27 In Mammalia generally ^sm .. 15 In Birds toW 7 In Reptiles nkj • • ? In Fish irrao •• 20 In Inseccs 9550 • • 8 Their diameter in the opposite direction or that marked by the distance between the long- itudinal lines is less, often by a half, but liable to variety from the cause already spe- cified. In a paper, entitled " On Fibre," read before the Royal Society, on the 16th December and the 6th January last.f Dr. Barry describes the fibrilla to be a fiat filament rounded at the edges, and deeply grooved along the middle line on both its surfaces. He states that this fiat filament consists of two spiral threads placed side by side, with their coils interlacing : that it " is so situated in the fasciculus (ele- mentary fibre) of voluntary muscle, as to pre- sent its edge to the observer;" and that the curves of the spiral thread, then seen, seem to have been the appearance that " suggested the idea of longitudinal bead-like enlargements producing the striae." In Dr. Barry's opinion " the dark longitudinal stria are spaces (pro- bably occupied by a lubricating fluid) between the edges of flat filaments, and the dark trans- verse striae, rows of spaces between the curves of the spiral threads," of which each flat fila- ment consists. " in a postscript, the author observes, that there are states of voluntary muscle in which the" (doubly-spiral, flat,) "lon- gitudinal filaments have no concern in the production of the transverse stria-, these striae being occasioned by the windings of spirals, within which very minute bundles of longi- * Anct. loc cit. p. 474. t Proceedings of the Royal Society, No. 51.