NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Comparative Anatomy.) % is at once seen ; in the latter, the ganglia are numerous and undetermined. We will notice these parts separately. The spinal cord* (fig. 351, g,) is remarkable for its great relative size in this class of animals: it is continued (with but very few exceptions) the whole length of the vertebral column, even into the caudal vertebrae, and it has on its an- terior and posterior aspects a longitudinal fis- sure (fig. 351, h), the latter being the deepest; internally it is hollowed out by a canal («) which traverses it in its whole extent, and which, at the upper part, immediately posterior to or underneath the cerebellum, forms a con- siderable dilatation or enlargement—the fourth ventricle (fig. 352, e). The posterior fissure extends to this canal. In a river lamprey (Petromyzon Jiuviulis), weighing 570 grains, the brain weighs only four-tenths of a grain, while the spinal cord weighs three grains, the proportions being as 100 : 750. We thus ob- serve how much the latter preponderates in size, being seven and a half times heavier than the brain. It is inclosed in a semicartilaginous case, and I satisfactorily traced it into the ex- treme point of the caudal extremity of the animal : it presents a thin flattened appearance, so much so that no trace of a central canal is perceptible; but immediately posterior to the brain, the rudimentary corpora restiformia of the two lateral longitudinal columns diverge to form a large excavation, which is covered over by a net-work of delicate vessels, a sort of plexus choroides ; this is the fourth ventricle. Amongst the true osseous fishes I have found a canal traversing the spinal marrow with this dilatation or ventricle at its superior portion, in the eel (Anguilla), perch (Perca Jiuviulis), gurnard (Trigla guriuirdus), cod ( Gadus rno- rhua), mackarel (Scomber vulguris), pike ( Esox lucius), roach ( Leuciscus rutilus), dace ( Leuciscus vulgaris), chub (Leuciscus ?), carp( Ci/prinus curpio), and skate (Ruia——!) In the gurnard there are six pair of ganglia developed on the superior surface, immediately posterior to the cerebellum, at the origins of the nerves distributed to the large pectoral fins ; this remarkable conformation only exists in this genus. In all the other species the spinal cord is of nearly equal diameter throughout, except- ing towards its termination ; and in the dace I traced it running to the extremity of the tail, and ending in a point: in the moon fish (Te- trodun mo la) it is remarkably short, and termi- nates in a true cauda equina. [A similar exception to the usual length of the spinal cord in fishes, is found in the Lophius piscatorius, in which that organ ceases as high as the eighth vertebra, and in one instance observed by Leuret as high as the second. The rest of the canal is occupied by cauda equina.] The superior portion of the spinal cord, which takes the name of medulla oblongata, is large and * In the description of the spinal cord the terms anterior and posterior are used in the same signi- fication as in the human subject; anterior to signify the surface next the bodies of the vertebra;, posterior that next the spinous processes. broad in most fishes : on it are percepti corpora pyramidaliaand restiformia; the oli are not yet developed. The former, situated off**** either side of the anterior longitudinal groove, are flattened and broad, and are distinctly seen continuous with the crura cerebri, the pons Varolii being wanting. The corpora restiformia, or cerebellic fasciculi, are situated posteriorly; they separate (as before observed) at their upper part to form the fourth ventricle, and pass after- wards into the cerebellum. According to Leuret there is no decussation of the fibres of the spinal cord in fishes. [A singular little fish whichhaslately attracted the attention of naturalists, and for the reception of which Mr. Yarrell has instituted the genus Amphioxus, exhibits the apparent anomaly of an absence of all outward distinction between the brain and spinal cord. It is the Amphioxus Lunceolutus, of which a very perfect specimen has lately been presented to the Museum of King's College, London, by Professor Edward Forbes. An elaborate examination of the anatomy of this little creature has been published by Mr. John Goodsir in the Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, from which we extract the following account of its neuro- skeleton and of its nervous system. " Neuro-skeleton.—The osseous system, pro- perly so called, consists of a " chorda dorsalis" tapering at both ends, without the vestige of a cranium, and of a dorsal and ventral series of cells, the germs of superior and inferior inter- spinous bones and fin rays. The " chorda dorsalis " consists of sixty to seventy vertebra.', the divisions between which are indicated by slight bnlgings, and lines passing obliquely from above downwards on the sides of the column. In this way a separation into individual ver- tebra? is rather indicated than proved to exist; for although the column has certainly a ten- dency to divide at the points above-mentioned, yet that division is rather artificial than natural. There is no difficulty in ascertaining above sixty divisions, those at each end above the number stated run so much into one another that no correct result can be obtained. " The chorda dorsalis is formed externally of a fibrous sheath, and internally of an im- mense number of laminae, each of the size and shape of a section of the column at the place where it is situated. When any portion of the column is removed, these plates may be pushed out from the tubular sheath, like a pile of* coins. They have no great adhesion to one another, are of the consistence of parchment, and appear like flattened bladders, as if formed of two tough fibrous membranes pressed together. " As the fibres of the sheath are principally circular, provision is made for longitudinal strains on the column by the addition of a su- perior and inferior vertebral ligament, as strong cords stretching along its dorsal and ventral aspects. The superior ligament lies imme- diately under the spinal cord, and may be re- cognized as a veiy tough filament, when the column is torn asunder, or some of the ver- tebra; removed. The inferior ligament mav be