NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Comparative Anatomy.) 621 cnpy our attention,—the olfactory tubercles, situated most anteriorly, the optic lobes, situated posteriorly to these, and the cerebellum. 1st. The olfactory tubercles, or first cere- bral mass (figs. 352, 353, a, a, a), now be- come obviously the cerebral hemispheres, are of an increased proportional size, are com- mencing to cover the tubercula quadrige- mina, and contain a cavity which was first developed in the Plagiostome fishes ; they are very various as to form. Amongst the Am- phibia, in the triton they are elongated and oblong; in the frog, more oval they are united at their anterior parts by a commissure, but posteriorly tliey are separated. Amongst the true Reptilia, in the viper and ringed snake they are of a rounded form, and extended late- rally; in the lizard and turtle they are oval (figs. 353, 354, a, a); in the crocodile they are more extended laterally. On cutting into them, in the turtle there is found an oblong tubercle analogous to the corpus striatum (fig. 353, 6*), on the inner side of which is a plexus choroides. From the anterior part of these hemispheres in the different animals mentioned, the olfactory nerves arise, and run forwards to the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, on the upper surface of which, in the viper and lizard, they form a bulbous enlargement (fig- 354, g): in the turtle this is wanting, but at their origin they form a large round hollow swelling, situated immediately anterior to the cerebral hemispheres, and communicating with the cavities in their interior (Jig. 353, i, k, /). Fig. 354. Bruin and portion of spinal cord of La- certa viridis (lizard), slightly magnified. a, first cerebral mass or cerebral hemispheres, b, second cerebral mass or optic lobes, c, third cerebral mass or cerebellum, d, spinal cord, with its posterior longitudinal fissure, e, fourth ventricle, f, Pineal gland, g, olfactory nerves, with their bulbous enlargements. 2d. The optic lobes, ox second cerebral mass (figs. 353, 354, b, b, b), are of small size, and are more solid than the same parts in the fishes, the internal cavity being smaller: we thus see them gradually approaching to the form and character of the tubercula quadrige- mina of the Mammalia, and of man. In the triton, frog viper, ringed snake, lizard (fig.354), and turtle (Jig. 353); they are of a rounded form, and situated on a plane immediately pos- terior to the cerebral hemispheres. In all these species there is found also, immediately anterior to them, and partly covered by the cerebral hemispheres, a pair of small ganglia, analogous to the optic thalami of the human brain, on the superior surface of which was situated the pineal gland (Jig. 354). These different eminences give origin to the fibres of the optic nerves. 3d. The third cerebral mass, or cerebellum (figs. 353, 354, c), presents some inte- resting grades of developement in these two classes of animals. In all of them it is small, in most of them extremely small, and covers in the fourth ventricle in a similar manner to what has been described in the fishes. In the triton and frog it consists of a thin transverse band of medullary matter, pre- cisely analogous to the cerebellum of the lam- prey, and, as in that animal, leaving the fourth ventricle quite open and exposed : in the viper and lizard (Jig. 353) it presents a similar ap- pearance, but the band of medullary matter is rather thicker; in the turtle (fig. 352) it con- sists of a tongue-shaped lobe, very similar to the cerebellum of the cod : there are very dis- tinct lateral appendages, the rudiments of which we first observed in the Plagiostome fishes, and which we shall trace in the suc- ceeding classes to increased degrees of deve- lopement : these lateral appendages are found also in the crocodile ; they lead us, by strict analogies, to the cerebellum of the birds. On reviewing these statements of the ner- vous system of the Reptilia, we observe that the equality and horizontally of the brain and spinal marrow again claim our attention as marks of low organization. Still, however, the preponderance of the spinal marrow over the brain is less, while the weight of this latter, compared with the body, is greater. The first cerebral mass has increased in size; cavities are developed in its interior, and it is united into two portions, which are divided by a com- missure. The second cerebral mass, or tuber- cula quadrigemina, has decreased in size, and the cavities are much smaller. The third cere- bral mass, or cerebellum, is in the lower Rep- tilia imperfectly developed, but in the higher ones it is of some size, and marked by ex- ternal striae. 4. Aves.—In the class Aves, or birds, the nervous centre has acquired a high degree of developement in all its parts, but particularly as regards the cerebellum, and the different portions composing the cerebral mass are ar- ranged more above and less behind each other. The spinal cord (Jig. 355, d) is of less re- lative size, and of less extent, than in the fishes and reptiles, but it still is traversed by an anterior and posterior longitudinal fissure, and still contains a central canal. In a pigeon weighing (according to Cams) eight ounces, (360 grains) the brain weighed 37 grains, and the spinal marrow only 11 grains, the propor- tion being as 100: 30. We thus observe that the brain now preponderates in size over the spinal cord for the first time; this at once marks its increased developement. Where the nerve9 supplying the anterior and posterior ex- tremities are given off, the spinal cord presents distinct enlargements, the inferior of which is the largest, and is placed in the sacrum : this may be considered as the termination of the spinal cord, for Cams considers that portion passing through the coccygeal vertebra to be only a large terminal filament. A canal passes through the whole extent of the spinal cord, which, at the inferior enlargement, forms a large and remarkable excavation, called the