449' MOTION. land and water. The outline of the Sauria presents a lengthened form, having the atlanto- sacral axis much greater than the transverse; they partake more of the figure of the Ophidian than of the Chelonian reptiles, but differ from the former in having legs for the support of the trunk and for locomotion, and also in having a more complex skeleton, including besides the vertebral and costal bones, scapulae, clavicles,* sternoid, pelvic, and sacral elements, as in rnammiferousquadrupeds. The acetabula of the scapula' and ossa ilii are inclined horizontally outwards; the humerus and femur, which are short, take the same direction ; the ginglymoid articulations of the elbow and knee joints are inclined backwards eccentrically to those of the shoulder and thigh. The effect of this is that the extension and flexion of the fore-arm and leg, beinu- made in the plane of the trans- verse horizontal section of the body, are at the same time movements of abduction and ad- duction; an arrangement which renders the ex- tremities ill adapted for rapid progression on land. Those Sauria which have the four legs nearly of an equal length may be considered the best adapted for locomotion ; the vertebral column being in this case parallel to the plane of motion. When the leys are nearly of equal length, the bones of the anterior and posterior ex- tremities bear the following proportions : in the arm of the C'rocodilus acutus the humerus is found to be 4.334, the ulna 3 083 ; and in the leg, the femur 4.666, the tibia 3.5 inches, so that 4.334 -f- 3.083 — 4.666 — 3.5 — — 0.75 inch for the difference of the length of these bones. The metatarsus and toes are longer and broader than the carpus and phalanges of the fingers, and present a larue surface to strike the water in swimming.f The posterior extre- mities of the Biporcatus are palmated,} those of the Cayman semi pal mated. The legs of the Sauria are very short compared with the length of the animal, (which, in the Hipor- catus, is more than 10 feet,) and their hori- zontal inclination tends still more to depress the centre of gravity towards the plane of mo- tion. From the same cause the legs act on land at a great mechanical disadvantage. In the Crocodilean Sauria, the cervical ver- tebrae have but a limited lateral motion owing to the projection and interposition of the false ribs; the dorsal vertebrae have their transverse processes elongated and fixed to the ribs, which have no tubercles, consequently there is but little lateral motion of the back; the lengthened tail, however, admits of considerable lateral play and is of great use in swimming. The Crocodile cannot curve its trunk abruptly or turn it at an acute angle with facility; it runs, however, with considerable agility in a right line. The bones of the skeleton are of a fibrous spongy character, which diminishes the specific gravity of the animal, and is a great * The Crocodile has no clavicle, t Hunterian .Museum. t The same remarks ap ly generally to the Alli- gators of America as lo the Crocodiles of the Old World. VOL. III. advantage in its swiftest mode of progression, which is in a fluid medium. Lacertte.—The Lacertine Saurians are smaller in dimensions than the Crocodilean, and pos- sess much greater mobility of the vertebral column ; the prolongation of the animal in the axis of its mesial section is much greater than in its transverse section. As in the Cioco- dilean species, most of the Lizards are pro- vided with four legs, but a very few species have two only. In a few forms, such as the Chirotes and Bipes, the animal cannot support the body above the surface of motion, and consequently drags the thoracic and abdominal segments along upon the ground. In con- sequence of the construction of the hands, claws, and prehensile tad, many Lizards climb with facility. The Gecko is provided with a pneumatic apparatus which it employs in a manner similar to that of the house-fly ; the under surface of each of the five toes, which (with the exception of the thumb) terminate in a sharp claw, is furnished both in the fore and hind feet with as many as sixteen trans- verse plicae, which open into as many cavities or sacs (fig. 244). The contraction of the muscles, acting upon these plicae and sacs, erects the former and dilates the cavities of the latter; the serrated edges being at the same time accurately applied to any smooth surface, a vacuum is produced, and by this structure the animal is enabled to climb up the vertical planes of walls, and to walk in an inverted position on the ceilings of rooms. The Anolis and Tupenambis, as well as the Gecko, run with considerable speed, and have the power of leaping a great distance; others propel them- selves either backwards or forwards by applying two or more parts to the ground as a fulcrum, and by the alternate flexion and extension of the body, aided by the long and flexible tail. In the Thecadactylus the toes are expanded and furnished at their lower ex- tremities with transverse folds ; these folds are di- vided by a deep longitu- dinal groove, in which the claw can be entirely con- cealed ; by this provision the claws are preserved sharp for climbing. In the Ptyodactylm, the toes are flattened into plates, the lower parts of which are striated like a fan; the middle of the fold is cleft, and the. claw is fixed in the fissure. All the toes have the claws very much curved. This peculiar organization of the feet enables the animal to climb with great facility. In order to allow of the more secure pre- hension of its insect food on the agitated branches of trees, the Cameleon has short, strong, muscular lirnbs ; a strong, flexible, and prehensile tail; two thumbs opposite to three 2 c Fig. 244.