720p PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 1. That there is invariably an accumulation of vesicular matter around the points of im- plantation of nerves in the centres, as already referred to. This is true of all nerves in the vertebrata and the higher invertebrata, and we know of no reason to doubt it in the lower invertebrata. 2. The quantity of the vesi- cular matter around the point of implantation of a nerve is in the direct ratio of its size and of the activity of its function. Under par- ticular circumstances the quantity of vesicular matter becomes so large as to cause a special ganglionic enlargement of the portion of the centre in which the nerve or nerves may be implanted. The cervical and lumbar enlarge- ments of the spinal cord are due to this cause: the gangliform swellings on the upper part of the spinal cord in the gurnard (trigla Lyra) are connected with the exalted func- tions of the nerves of touch distributed to the feelers, and contain a large quantity of vesi- cular matter. A remarkable instance of the developement of vesicular nervous matter under similar circumstances is to be found in the electric lobes of the Torpedo, in which are im- planted the nerves distributed to the electrical organ. These lobes are of very considerable size, much exceeding that of any other part of the brain, and they contain vesicular matter in large quantity. The nerves implanted in them are of great size.* Such facts as those cited in the preceding paragraph denote clearly that the developement of the nervous force is to a certain extent con- nected with the vesicular nervous matter, and to such a degree as to justify the opinion that this element of the nervous centres may be viewed as the dynamic matter, the originator of the force. At the same time it must be borne in mind that this form of nervous matter never occurs alone, and that probably the union of the two is necessary for the developement of nervous power. Just as the union of two metals in the galvanic battery is necessary for the developement of the current, while one of them, that, namely, which possesses the greatest affinity for the fluid interposed between them, seems to originate the current, and is on that account called the generating plate, whilst the other is called the conducting plate. Of the nature of the nervous force.—All that we have said respecting the mode of deve- lopement and the laws of the nervous force denotes its polar character. We can no more detect by our senses any physical change in the piece of soft iron which is rendered magnetic by the galvanic current, than we can discover a change in the particles of a nerve stimulated to action by the same current. That both the iron and the nervous matter are thrown into an analogous state by the same agent seems highly probable. In the case of the iron the indication of the assump- tion and of the maintenance of the polar state is afforded by its power of attracting particles of iron ; while in a muscular nerve the assump- tion and maintenance of the polar state are * Savi, Etudes Anat. sur le Systeme Nerveux et sur l'Organe lilectrique dc la Torpille. shown by the active contraction of certain mus- cles, or a more tonic state of passive contrac- tion. While the current is passing through a motor nerve there is no active contraction of the muscles; but that these organs are in a more excited state than the ordinary one of passive contraction seems evident enough, from the readiness with which they assume a tetanic condition upon the cessation of the passage of an inverse current which had been allowed to pass through their nerves for some time. And the fact demonstrated by Marianini and Matteucci, that the passage of a continuous current through a nerve will after a time exhaust its excitability, although not so quickly as a current frequently interrupted, denotes that the nerve is in an excited state during the actual passage of the galvanic current. Is the nervous force electricity ?—There is so much resemblance, as regards their mode of developement and propagation, between the nervous force and electricity, that many physiologists have been led to regard these forces as identical. The nervous force, how- ever, presents striking points of difference from electricity, which render it highly impro- bable that it is identical with that force, and which show that if it be so it must be an electricity of extremely low tension. 1. The ordinary tests for electricity fail to detect the existence of a galvanic current in the nerves, whether during their quiescent or their active state. The most delicate galvanometers have been employed for this purpose, in vain, by Prevost and Dumas, who were themselves advocates of the electrical theory of nervous action, by Person, by Muller, by Matteucci, and by myself. Person connected the wires of a galvanometer with the surfaces of the spinal cord in kittens and rabbits, in which spasmodic action of the muscles had been excited by the influence of nux vomica, and was unable to discover any evidence of electrical action. It had been affirmed that needles introduced into the nerves or muscles of living animals became magnetic during nervous and muscular action, so as to attract iron filings, but neither Muller nor Matteucci has succeeded in obtaining such a result from their experiments. Matteucci took the precaution of employing astatic needles for the purpose, but could detect no signs of magnetization. He also introduced the pre- pared limbs of a frog into the interior of a spiral covered on its inside with varnish; the extremities of this spiral were united to those of another smaller spiral, into which he intro- duced a wire of soft iron. The nerves of the frog were irritated to excite muscular action, and at the same time Matteucci sought to ascertain if an induced current would traverse the spirals and magnetize the wire, but to no purpose. 2. Were it to be admitted that the nervous force and electricity were identical, it cannot be doubted that the provision made for propa- gating the latter force in the nerves is very inadequate. The nerves are very imperfect conductors of electricity; Matteucci assigns to them a conducting power four times less than that of muscle; Weber states that they are very