654 NERVOUS SVSTEM. (Nervous Centres. The Spinal Cord.) and the grey matter, and remarkable varieties -F'g- 377. by a distinct depression or as regards the shape of tlie lateral portions of A fissure which passes in the the latter. The relative proportion of the grey /^mjW^X 'en8tn °f l'le cor<i ; hut matter to the white appears to be much greater 1 ( | this fissure does not extend in the lumbar than in the cervical or dorsal ^ililili' Inuc'1 deeper than the sur- regions. In the upper part of the cord the ^Hum^ face, nor does any distinct crescentic portions are narrow, and the white a process of pia mater sink matter is abundant. The posterior horn ap- ^T>X5> "lt0 Nevertheless, m pears as a thin lamella extending back to the n ' T m \ the spinal cord, which has surface, while the anterior is a small, roundish, * V Jl been hardened in alcohol or by any other chemical reagent, these columns will readily separate by tearing in the longitudinal direc- tion, both from each other and from the posterior columns between which they are placed. They occupy rather less than one-half of the interval be- tween the posterior roots of the nerves, excepting at their lowest part, where, from their tapering form, they obviously take up much less space. In the dorsal region both white and grey mat- ter are small in quantity ; the posteriorcolumns,how- ever, do not appear to ex- perience a diminution in size at all commensurate with the general shrinking of the organ in this region, nor with the reduced size of the antero-lateral co- lumns. In the lumbar region the antero-lateral columns stance. (Fig. 377.) Transverse sections of are small; the grey matter There are also differences deserving of notice the spinal cord. js iarge in quantity, and as regards the white substance in the different , (Aft.er Arnold-J the posterior columns ap- ° 1 cervica.1 region at 1 . « . A regions of the cord. The largest quantity of tj,e upper part 0f pear to retain their size: white substance is found in the cervical en- the swelling. they are, indeed, propor- largement, as may be shown on a transverse 2, the same at the tionally to the other parts section. Both the antero-lateral and the pos- largest part of the 0f the cord, larger in this terior columns are large, but by far the greatest Q syelll'j'S- . than in the cervical region, „ , ° '„ , . J . ° o, dorsal region. j .1 1 i ir proportion of the mass of white substance must 4; iumbar region. and tlle lumbar swelling be assigned to the antero-lateral columns. It 5,' pointed extremity, appears to depend much is also important to remark that the quantity of A, anterior surface, more upon the large size white substance which is placed between the p> posterior surface. 0f the grey matter and of posterior horns in a great part of the cervical the posterior columns than upon the bulk of the region is augmented by the existence of two antero-lateral ones. At the lowest point of small columns of white matter, which will be the cord the white matter has gradually disap- more particularly described when we come peared, and in the commencement of the ter- to speak of the medulla oblongata. These minal filiform process grey matter only is pre- columns extend from the inferior extremity of sent, according to Remak and Valentin, the fourth ventricle, very nearly as far down These facts lead to some interesting physio- as the termination of the cervical enlarge- logical conclusions bearing upon the function merit, where they gradually taper to a fine of the cord as well as of its columns. It is point and disappear, allowing the posterior in the upper extremities that/voluntary power columns of the cord to come into apposition and sensibility are in their most highly deve- along the posterior fissure. These small co- loped state, and accordingly the size of thai lumns, the posterior pyramids of some authors, portion of the cord from which the nerves of do not appear to be completely isolated from these parts emanate is greater than any other the proper posterior columns of the cord. There portion of the cord. Were the sensibility de- is generally a very clear line of demarcation pendent on the grey matter or upon the pos- between them, visible on the posterior surface, terior columns, as has been conjectured, it slightly stellate mass, remote from the surface of the anterior columns. In the dorsal region the grey matter is at its minimum of develope- ment: here it appears much contracted and diminished in size, although presenting the same general form as that in the region of the neck. In the lumbar region both horns acquire a manifest increase of thickness, the posterior still extending back quite to the surface, and the anterior, more stellate than in the higher parts of the cord, separated from the corre- sponding surface of the cord by a much smaller quantity of white substance. At a still lower part of the cord, where the lumbar swelling begins to diminish in size, the pos- terior horn is short and thick, and some- times seems not to reach quite back to the surface of the cord,—an appearance, however, which might be produced by some accidental obliquity of the section; and its posterior extremity has somewhat of the form of a hook, its hindermost portion being directed a little forwards and inwards, forming a very sharp angle with the rest of the grey sub- stance which constitutes the horn. At the lowest part of the cord the crescentic form of the lateral portions of grey matter ceases, and the transverse section of it presents the form of a solid cylinder slightly notched on each side, and surrounded completely by the white sub-