2 INSTINCT. laid by our ablest metaphysicians, " the belief of the permanence of the order of nature," or the conviction, " that what has been as an an- tecedent, will be followed by what has been as a consequent;" otherwise the lessons of expe- rience would be lost upon them, and no change could be effected in their habits by education. Under the influence of this mental law, it is certain that their recollections of past sensations excite in them various desires, and afford mo- tives to action, which prompt many of their movements exactly on the same principle by which the greater number of what are strictly called voluntary human actions are determined; the object in view, in both cases, being simply to procure known pleasure or to avoid known pain, and the same metaphysical question pre- senting itself to the speculative inquirer as to both, viz. the question whether the voluntary power is really to will what we please, or is only to do what we will. Further, the various muscular movements required for any such actions, and the sensations and emotions which excite them, are gradually linked together by the mental principle of the association of ideas, so as to become obedient to the law of Habit in animals equally as in man. It has been generally admitted, since the time of Locke, that the essential inferiority of the intellect of animals, as compared with that of man, lies in their very limited enjoyment of the faculty of abstraction, by which the mind is enabled to single out the different qualities or relations of the individual objects of sense, and make them the subject of abstract thought, and thereby form general notions, which are at once perceived to be equally applicable to many individual cases; and by help of which it continually elevates itself above the contem- plation of individuals, and classifies and me- thodizes its knowledge, and fits it for useful application,—for the deduction of inferences in reasoning, for the formation of fancied scenes in works of imagination, and for the adapta- tion of means to ends in practice. It is obvious, also, that none of those still more general or abstract notions which conti- nually suggest themselves to the human mind in the course of the operations that are excited by the senses, such, for example, as space, time, number, power, &c. are indicated by any mani- festations that we see of the mental acts of the lower animals ; and it may be stated, in general, that the limitation of their minds to particulars, and the want of the power of raising the thoughts to general ideas, and dwelling on the contemplation of these, is the grand obstacle to their adapting means to ends, drawing infe- rences from premises, or enjoying the use of language. The objections that have been started to this doctrine do not appear of much weight. Darwin, while he set aside the statement of Locke, endeavoured to distinguish instincts as " actions excited by sensations," employed about the possession of pleasurable objects, or the avoiding of painful ones, already in our power, while voluntary (i. e. rational) actions are employed " about the means to acquire such objects." But this distinction appears, on reflection, to be substantially the same. The two noblest and most characteristic of the facul- ties of the human mind, as defined by logi- cians, those of Reasoning and of Imagination, (the latter of which is truly applicable to every kind of contrivance or adaptation of means to ends, of which we are capable,) evidently im- ply the existence of a mental power of forming and dwelling on general ideas, which are equally applicable to many individual cases; and if animals possessed this latter power, we might confidently expect to see them exhibit indica- tions of the two former. Why is it, for example, that the monkeys, who have been observed to assemble about the fires which savages have made in the forests, and been gratified by the warmth, have never been seen to gather sticks, and rekindle them when expiring ? Not, certainly, because they are incapable of understanding that the fire which warmed them formerly will do so again, but because they are incapable of abstracting and reflecting on that quality of wood, and that relation of wood to fires already existing, which must be comprehended, in order that the action of renewing the fire may be suggested by what is properly called an effort of Reason. Or why is it, that the different classes of predaceous animals, although surrounded by the materials out of which the human race has manufactured so many implements of warfare, have never been able to avail themselves of any of them in aid of the instruments of destruction with which nature has furnished them ? Apparently, because they are incapable of forming such general notions of the qualities and relations of external things, as are essential to the processes of imagination and reasoning, by which men are led to the contrivance, and guided in the use, of artificial weapons. Again, although many of them are suscepti- ble of the emotions of joy, and to a certain degree of gratitude and attachment, founded on the sense and recollection of benefits, none of them seem capable of forming the slightest notion of that Divine Power, which has sug- gested itself to the human intellect in all ages, and even in the rudest conditions of human existence ; we should regard any act of praise or prayer as an infallible indication of a mental capacity of the same rank as our own. Exceptions to this principle, to a certain ex- tent, must be admitted, as will afterwards ap- pear, and the explanation of some of them is certainly obscure; but the general fact un- doubtedly is, that those operations of the human intellect which imply the formation of general or abstract notions, or in the language of Dr. Brown, the suggestion of relations, are beyond the power of the lower animals. In- deed reflection on the nature of language, on the small number of words (only substantive nouns, and only part of these) which apply to individual objects, and on the necessity of the power of forming some kind of abstract or general notion, as indispensable to the use of every other kind of word, is sufficient to esta- blish, and is perhaps the simplest way of dis- tinctly conceiving, the essential difference be-