MUSCLE. 511 tudinal" (doubly-spiral, flat,) " filaments are con- tained and have their origin." This description, so entirely opposed to the more simple view above given (and which was already in type when the paper " On Fibre" was read) demands a brief notice. The paper of which it forms part, might perhaps have been more explicitly entitled, " On the double spiral structure of the organic world;" for, in it, the doubly-spiral flat filament, giving the appearance of transverse striae to voluntary muscle, is discovered to exist in the interior of the blood-corpuscles of all animals, and " apparently in every tissue in the body. The author enumerates a great variety of organs in which he has observed the same kind of fila- ments." " And if the author's view of iden- tity in structure between the larger and the smaller filaments be correct, it follows that spirals are much more general in plants them- selves than has been hitherto supposed ; spirals would thus appear, in fact, to be as universal as a fibrous structure." " Valentin had pre- viously stated, that in plants all secondary de- posits take place in spiral lines. In the in- ternal structure of animals, spirals have here- tofore seemed to be wanting, or very nearly so. Should the facts recorded in this memoir, how- ever, be established by the researches of other investigators, the author thinks the question in future may perhaps be, where is the ' secon- dary deposit' in animal structure, which is not connected with the spiral form ? The spiral in animals, as he conceives he has shown, is in strictness not a secondary formation, but the most primary of all; and the question now is, whether it is not precisely so in plants." As these speculations profess to be grounded solely on observations of particular structures, of which muscle is one, I shall make no apo- logy for applying my few remarks solely to the account of this structure, which is all that can properly be considered here. A renewed ex- amination of this tissue has confirmed, fully and decisively to my own mind, the account I gave of it in 1840, and which was the result of two years' study. 1. I find that when the natural and ready cleavage happens to be into fibrillae (and I do not pretend to explain why this cleavage should be at one time into fibrillse and at another time into discs, I only know the fact,) these solitary and isolated fibrillse do not present any such central longitudinal groove, as Dr. Barry describes, to indicate their double nature: that the cross lines are usu- ally transverse, and not oblique, by which I mean that the spaces they bound have a rectan- gular outline, so sharp and definite, that the mind rests entirely satisfied that there cannot be two opinions concerning them, between any who have examined the object in one of Powell's best microscopes, and with the use of that admirable definer and clarifier of the image, the achromatic condenser. That right angles can be produced by a spiral, whether double or single, however distorted by accident or violence, it is impossible to conceive. That these transverse lines may sometimes become oblique by irregular traction, such as is almost necessarily applied in preparing the object, is most easy to understand, if we bear in mind, that the substance in the different spaces which they circumscribe is one united mass. 2. The transverse cleavage of the elementary fibre, which I first showed to be occasionally so com- plete as to separate it into discs, cannot be reconciled with Dr. Barry's statement. For the surfaces of such discs present, as in Jig. 288, a fine granular aspect, and no ends of doubly spiral threads. And the definite and beautiful appearance presented by a transverse section of the fibre in all animals, but espe- cially in Birds (jig. 290), is totally at variance with his views: for the particles there dis- played are highly refracting, round, and not aggregated in pairs. The condition repre- sented in fig. 289 is not less opposed to them. Other proofs might be adduced, but they would lead to greater detail than is compatible with the form of the present publication; and perhaps they will be allowed to be unneces- sary. 6. Of the corpuscles of the elementary fibre. The elementary fibres always contain, among their primitive particles, a number of corpuscles, which either are, or are analogous to, the nuclei of the cells of development, of which this and other structures have originally consisted. These corpuscles are visible in the early stages of growth (fig. 291), but disappear towards the close of foetal life, as the lines resulting from the deposit of the contractile particles Fig. 291. Elementary fibres from the pectoral muscle of a fwtal calf about two months after conception, shewing the corpuscles at a, a, a. Magnified 300 dium. Fig. 292. Elementary fibre from the larva of the Libellula, in an early stage of development, shewing tfie central row of corjmscles. Magnified 300 diam. Fig. 293. Elementary fibre from the leg of the large Meat-fly ( Musca vomitoria ), a, a, line of termination of the fibre, along which the tendon (i) is attached to it. c, central series of corpuscles. Along the margin the sarcolemma is elevated by water, (which has been absorbed,) and is thereby shown to be adherent to the margin of the discs.