321 MARSUPIALIA. them at tlie utmost) capable of taking refuge in her pouch." * Besides the satisfactory evidence, thus afforded by different and independent observers, respect- ing the condition of the mammary fcetus and its true relations to the nipple, the discovery of the uterine foetus was announced nearly at the same time by two naturalists in two different species of marsupial animals. Mr. Collie, whose experiment on the young mammary fcetus of a Kangaroo has just been quoted, states in the same letter, " I have just now procured two gravid uteri, (of the Macro- pus Brunii,) in which foetuses seem to be arrived at, or very near to, the termination of the period of gestation. One of them, which is about the size of the smallest young already mentioned, which was about one-half larger than the body of the common wasp, as being in the abdominal sac, has protruded through an opening inadvertently made in the uterus, and is distinctly seen through its transparent membranes and the liquor amnii."-f- About the same time Dr. Rengger, a naturalist who was detained several years by the Dictator Francia in Paraguay, gave the following account of the generation of a species of Opossum ( Didelphis Azara) in his work on the Mammalia of that province. " The foetuses are developed in the cornua uteri, and not in the lateral canals. Some days after impregnation they have the form of small round gelatinous corpuscles, which do not appear, even when examined with a lens, to have any communication with the mother, but a red line indicates the first commencement of development. Towards the end of gestation, when the foetuses have attained the length of six lines, they are seen to be en- veloped in a membrane and provided with an umbilical chord, which is united to the uterus by the medium of many filaments. The head, the four extremities, and tail are recognizable with the naked eye, but those foetuses which are nearest the Fallopian tubes are generally least advanced. " In gestation they make the circuit of the lateral canals, in which they are found to be deprived of their foetal envelopes, and to have no communication with the parent by means of the umbilical chord; whilst one foetus was found in this situation, two others were still in the body of the uterus (vaginal cul-de-sac), from which the umbilical chords were not yet detached. At this period a slight enlargement of the cul-de-sac and lateral canals was the only change perceptible in them." J Thus, by the various observations derived from the different sources above indicated, the following propositions are satisfactorily esta- blished, viz. that the young of the Marsu- pialia are developed, primarily, as Tyson con- jectured, in the true uteri or cornua uteri; but that, contrary to Tyson's opinion, they are, as * Barton,' Facts, Observations, and Conjectures relative to the Generation of the Opossum.' Annals of Philosophy, vol. vi. 1823, p. 349. f Zoological Journal, vol. v. p. 240. t From the Analysis of Rengger's " Saugethiere von Paraguay" in the Bulletin ties Sciences Nat. torn. xxi. p. 469. VOL. III. compared with other Mammalia, prematurely born; and that, nevertheless, the attachment of the immature young to the nipple is essen- tially the same as in ordinary mammals, the young marsupial being nourished by the lac- teal secretion, and its blood aerated by its own independent respiratory actions. Such, therefore, being the condition of the problem of marsupial generation in the year 1830, there remained to be determined by exact experiment and observation the period of uterine gestation, the structure of the foetal envelopes and appendages, the nature of the connection, if any, between the uterine foetus and the womb, the manner of the uterine birth, and the condition and powers of the new-born young. With a view to the solution of these ques- tions, I applied for and obtained from the Council of the Zoological Society permission to perform the requisite experiments on the Kan- garoos in the menagerie in Regent's Park. A healthy female (Macropus major, Shaw) was separated from the rest; she had a young one which measured about one foot two inches from the nose to the root of the tail, and which continued to return to the pouch for the purpose of sucking and for shelter. The right superior nipple was the one in use; it was nearly two inches long, and one-third of an inch in dia- meter ; the mammary gland formed a large swelling at its base. The other three nipples were everted, and about half-an-inch in length. A healthy full-grown male was admitted into the paddock with this female for a certain period each day, and watched, during that time, by the keeper or myself. In the course of a week the female seemed to be in a con- dition to excite the sexual ardour, and after a few days toying on the part of the male, she received his embrace on the 27th August, at 1 p.m. The female stood with her fore-paws off the ground, the male mounted, ' more cunino,' embracing her neck with his fore-paws, and retained his hold during a full quarter of an hour; during this period the coitus was repeated three times, and on the second occa- sion much fluid escaped from the vulva. The male was removed from the female in the evening of the same day, and was not after- wards admitted to her. On September the 2d, six days after the coitus, I examined the pouch of the female, and this scrutiny was repeated every morning and evening until the birth of the young kangaroo had taken place. I select the following from the notes taken on those occasions :— " Sept. 6th.—10th day of gestation. The pouch is nearly free from its peculiar brown musky secretion. The right superior nipple retains its large size, and the young one that has left the pouch returns occasionally to suck. " Sept. 11th.—15th day of gestation. No appearance of a mammary foetus; nipples in the same condition ; the young kangaroo con- tinues to suck and return to the pouch for shelter. " Sept. 30th.—34th day. The nipple in use by the young kangaroo (which has died) is diminished in size, and the brown secretion y