359 MILK. chemical properties of the constituents of the fluid. The fatty matter of milk obtained by churn- ing cream, and which is known by the name of butter, differs from the other forms of animal fat in several particulars. It yields about 88.5 per cent, of fixed acids on being saponified, for which purpose it requires no more than four- tenths of its weight of caustic potassa; it there- fore unites with alkali very easily. Of these acids the margaric and oleic are in large propor- tion, the stearic existing as a mere trace. Glyce- rine, as is the case with other fats, is a constant product of the saponification of butter. The great distinguishing peculiarity of this form of fatty matter consists in the production of three volatile acids as results of saponification; these have been carefully examined and distinguished by Chevreul in his admirable work, " Sur les Corps gras." He has named them the butyric, caproic, and capric acids. The production of these acids by the action of alkali has been traced by Chevreul to the existence of a new form of fat which he detected in butter mixed with the stearine and elain, and to which he gave the name of butyrine: thus butter may be regarded as composed of three different kinds of fatty matter—stearine, elain, and butyrine—the two former yielding by saponifi- cation the margaric, oleic, and stearic acids, and the latter the three volatile acids above mentioned. The proportions of the three kinds of fat vary considerably in different specimens of butter. The solubility of butter in alcohol is stated by Chevreul to be 3.46 parts in 100 at a boiling temperature, the specific gravity of the menstruum being 0.822. The stearine obtained from the alcohol by cooling is more crystalline and of a more brilliant white than that obtained from common fat, and 1.45 parts require 100 parts of alcohol of specific gravity 0.822 for its solution. The elain obtained from butter possesses no peculiar characteristics. The butyrine when separated from it, which is only to be accomplished with difficulty, pos- sesses the following qualities:—it is an oil generally of a yellow colour, but some speci- mens of butter yield it perfectly white; it con- cretes at 32° Fahrenheit, and possesses the smell and taste of butter; it mixes with boiling alcohol in all proportions; it is soluble in anhydrous alcohol. Potassa and the other alkalies are not the only substances capable of producing the volatile acids by acting on buty- rine. Alcohol if long digested produces a similar effect, as does strong sulphuric acid, and if butyrine be allowed to putrify these acids are developed. The casein or cheesy matter of milk which is obtained with some slight admixture of the fatty matter in the production of cheese from the skimmed milk has the following chemical properties. It is soluble in water after long digestion; but this is most likely owing to some decomposition which occurs in it, and it is certain that casein in its pure, undecomposed, and dry state is quite insoluble in water. Casein, as it exists dissolved in skim milk, is precipitable by the mineral acids and also by the acetic acid. The process which Derzelius recommends in order to obtain this substance is as follows :—Skim milk is to be mixed with a small proportion of dilute sulphuric acid, which unites with the casein and precipitates it in the form of a white clot. This is to be well washed with distilled water on a filter in order to separate the whey which it contains. After this carbonate of baryta and water are to be mixed up with the mass, by which means the acid is separated and the casein remains dissolved in the water, and may be separated from the carbonate and sulphate of baryta by filtration. Casein obtained by this process is more or less soluble in water, and is precipi- tated from its aqueous solution by the acids. It rapidly undergoes the putrefactive fer- mentation. It is soluble in the alkalies and in alcohol both boiling and cold, but far more so in the former, from which it rapidly deposits on cooling. Casein, when dissolved by the assistance of the acids, is precipitated by the ferro-cyanide of potassium. It is distinguished from albumen, with which it possesses many physical and chemical properties in common, by being precipitated from solution on the ad- dition of acetic acid, and the precipitate so formed being with difficulty soluble in an excess of the precipitant. It must not be imagined, however, that albumen under all circumstances cannot be precipitated from so- lution by the addition of acetic acid, for when dissolved in an alkaline solution, that proxi- mate principle is immediately thrown down on the addition of the acid. Casein, like albu- men, always contains some sulphur as a neces- sary element in its composition; the presence of this body may be easily shown by boiling casein in a concentrated solution of potassa, when the liquor rapidly assumes a brown colour, and gives out ammonia, an alkaline hydro-sulphuret remaining dissolved, which may be proved by the solution becoming of a deep black colour on the addition of a salt of lead. The aqueous solution of casein is pre- cipitated by all the earthy and metallic salts which precipitate albumen in the dissolved state. Tannin precipitates it even from its solution in alcohol, notwithstanding that men- struum protects it from the precipitating action of the acids. The ultimate analysis of casein is, according to Thenard and Gay Lussac, carbon 59.781, nitrogen 21.381, hydrogen 7.429, and oxygen 11.409. Caseous matter, as precipitated by rennet in making cheese, is liable to a peculiar kind of putrefaction, which has been investigated by Proust and Braconnot; the latter obtained as a product of putrefaction a peculiar crystalline substance, to which he gave the name of aposepedine, from octto and o-YiTri^uv, indicative of its origin. Proust had before noticed this substance and called it caseous oxide. It may be prepared very easily by allowing cheese to putrify under water and evaporating the solution so obtained to dry- ness ; the dried mass is then to be treated with alcohol until that menstruum exerts no further solvent action ; the portion insoluble in alcohol, on being dissolved in water, and digested with