NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Encephalok.) 661 ment of physiology, that a distinct series of nervous fibres is directed to each class of actions, those, namely, of sensation and volition, and those which are independent of the brain. Mr. Grainger was the first who offered a distinct solution to the anatomical problem which arose out of this hypothesis. Probable as his expla- nation appears to be, a candid review of the observations which have been hitherto made obliges me to state my opinion that the question is still subjudice, and that further research is necessary to prove unequivocally that of the fibres composing the roots of the nerves, some pass upwards and enter the brain, and others do not pass beyond the grey matter of the spinal cord. And this inquiry demands more than ordinary care, for the mind of an observer would be easily biased by so attractive an hy- pothesis as that above referred to. It is not from physiological experiment nor from coarse dissections that we can expect a fore proceeding, however, to the description of these portions, it will be necessary to take a brief review of some general points connected with the entire encephalic mass. The size of the encephalon by no means solution of this difficult but most important problem. We must look to the microscopical analysis of the anatomical elements of the spinal cord, as well as of the encephalon, for the most exact results upon all questions con- nected with the working of these centres. In a subsequent part of the article I shall give an account of the present state of our knowledge of this most interesting subject, having first examined the coarser anatomy of the several parts of the encephalon. 2 Of the Encephalon. Gr. tyx.itpa.Xov or iyx.tipa.Xoi; {tv tn xt<pa.Xn); Fr. CEncepliule, le cerveau; Germ, das Gehtm; The Bruin -—This term is used here in its strictly etymological sense to denote that part of the cerebro-spinal centre which is contained within the cavity of the cranium. Although it forms a great mass, continuous throushout, it offers certain very obvious subdivisions, which may be more con- veniently described separately (fig. 379). Be- keeps pace with that of the body. In com- paring that of the four classes of vertebrate animals, we observe a manifest increase of its size as compared with the body in the follow- ing order, fishes (minimum), reptiles, birds,