MARSUPIALIA. '291 behind the inner malleolus, and is inserted into the inner or tibial cuneiform bone. The muscle which has the relative position and origins of the flexor longus pollicis, sends its tendon by the usual route to the sole of the foot, where it divides and distributes a flexor tendon to all the toes except the rudimental hallux; it has the same disposition in the Opossums, where the hinder thumb or great toe is fully developed ; for this modification, however, the Comparative Anatomist is already prepared by meeting with it in the first step from man, viz. in the Chimpanzee and Orang.* The third deep-seated muscle, being situ- ated internal to the two preceding ones, may be the analogue of the flexor digitorum commu- nis longus; it nevertheless sends no tendon to the toes nor even to the tarsus, but its fibres pass from the tibia obliquely outwards and down- wards between the preceding muscle and the interosseous ligament to the fibula, where they are exclusively inserted so as to oppose the plantaris and rotate the foot outwards. This muscle closely adheres to the interosseous fascia, and thus resembles in its attachments the pronator quadratus of the fore limb : it is most developed in the pedimanous climbing Marsupials, where the rotation of the foot is more extensive and more useful. The subjoined illustration (fig. 113) of this modification of the muscles of the hind-foot is taken from a dissection of the Phulangista vul- pina, which very closely accords with that above described in the Dasi/urus macrurus: a, expanded tendon of the sartorius; b, gracilis; c, Semitendiaosus ; and d, semi-membranosus ; both these muscles are inserted, as in many other quadrupeds, low down the tibia : e, gas- trocnemius; J) plantaris; g, the analogue of the flexor longus pollicis pedis ; h, tibialis posti- cus ; this muscle divides and is inserted by two tendons, K and //", into the internal and middle cuneiform bones : i, the rotator muscle of the tibia, probably a modification of the flexor digitorum communis pedis; its fibres descend obliquely from the fibula p to the tibia t. In the muscles on the anterior part of the leg I observed no peculiarity worthy of notice ; the extensor brevis digitorum has, however, its origin extended into this region and is attached to the outside of the fibula. There are three peronei; the external one is inserted into the proximal end of the fifth metatarsal: the ten- don of the middle peroneus crosses the sole in a groove of the cuboid like the peroneus longus: the internal peroneus is an extensor of the outer or fifth toe. The Perameles lagotis, among the Saltatorial Marsupials, presents a different condition of the extensors of the foot from that above described. The gastrocnemii, soleus, and plantaris all arise above the knee- joint, and the tendon of the plantaris, after sheathing the tendo Achillis and traversing the long sole, is finally inserted into the base of the metatarsal bone of the fourth or largest toe ; thus this muscle, which is strongly de- veloped, bends both this toe and the knee, while it extends the foot. * Zoolog. Proceedings, 1830, p. 59. Fig. 113. Hhtscles of leg, Phalangisla vidpina. Nervous System. The brain bears a smaller proportion to the body in the Marsupials than in any other order of Mammals: thus, in the Ursine Dasyure it is as 1 to 520, in the Wombat as 1 to 614, in the great Kangaroo as 1 to 800: it is relatively largest in the smaller species of Petaurists and Phalangers. The Marsupial brain is also the simplest as respects its external form in the Mammiferous class. The cerebral hemispheres do not ex- tend over the cerebellum in any of the species, and in some, as the Dasyures and Opossums, they leave the optic lobes exposed. The brain consists, as in other Mammalia, of a medulla oblongata with a pons Varolii, cerebellum {d,fig. 114), optic lobes, or bigeminal bodies, (c, jig. 114), cerebrum (b), to which may be added, on account of their large proportional size and distinct development, the olfactory lobes (a, a,). In the Phalangers and Petau- rists, the Opossums, Perameles, the insectivo- rous Phascogales, and the smaller Dasyures the surface of the cerebral hemispheres is smooth and unconvoluted. In the Dasi/urus ursinus the complication of the cerebral surface is merely indicated by a few slight indentations ; it is in the strictly herbivorous species as the Kangaroo (Jig. 115) and Wombat, that the U 2