ment and the cutaneous muscle. It is of a MONOTREMATA. 406 apparatus in the Mo- Fie. 202 notrematous quadru- peds must be classed with the accessory or- gans of generation in the same category with the antlers of Deer, the spurs of the Cock, the claspers of the Shark, and other peculiar characteristics of the male sex. It has been already shown, in the description of the young Ornithorhyn- chus, that the external parts of the apparatus are not so developed as to distinguish the sex at that immature period; a small spur, concealed in a cavity or socket of the inte- gument covering the heel, the bottom of which closely adheres to the accessory tarsal ossicle, exists in both sexes; a magnified view of the part in the young female is given at Jig. 197. As the young animal advances to maturity the cutane- ous socket increases in width and depth in the female, but without any corresponding growth of the rudimentary spur, of which in aged female Ornithorhynchi sometimes no trace remains. In the male Ornithorhynchus the tarsal spur soon begins to rise above the socket, and finally attains a length of ten lines with a basal breadth of five lines, apparently everting the tegumentary socket in the progress of its growth. The spur (Jig. 173, K,e; Jig. 202, e) consists of a firm semitransparent horn-like substance: it is coni- cal, slightly bent, and terminated by a sharp point; its base is expanded, and notched at the margin for the implantation of the ligaments ■which connect the spur with the accessory flat tarsal bone (us basilare, Meckel,) (Jig. 173, k, d; Jig. 202, d.) The base of the spur is co- vered by a thin vascular integument. The spur is traversed by a canal which commences at the centre of the base and terminate., by a fine longitudinal slit, about one line distant from the point, closely resembling in this respect the canal that traverses the poison fang of the venomous snake* Like that canal also the spur of the male Monotreme is sub- servient to the transmission into the wounds it may inflict of the secretion of a peculiar gland. This gland (a, Jig. 202) is situated in the Ornithorhynchus at the back part of the thigh, between the femur and the long process from the head of the fibula, covered by the integu- Crural rjland and spur, male Ormthorhynclius. (Meckel.) triangular or reniform figure, convex above, concave below, or towards the leg; from twelve to fourteen lines in length, seven or eight lines broad, and three or four lines thick, with a smooth exterior, invested by a thin capsule, on the removal of which the gland may easily be divided into a number of small lobes. Its intimate structure, as displayed by a successful injection of mercury, is minutely cellular, like that of the glandula Harderi of the hare or goose, but with the ultimate secerning cells more minute; the excretory duct is continued from the concave side of the gland, and small clusters of vesicles are developed from parts of its expanded commencement.* The duct, (fig. 180, l,) which is about a line in width and with pretty strong tunics, descends straight down the back of the leg, covered by the flexor muscles and posterior tibial nerve, to the posterior part of the tarsus, where it sud- denly expands into a vesicle (b, Jig. 202) about three lines in diameter; the vesicle is applied to the base of the spur, and a minute duct (c, Jig. 202) is continued from it into the canal which traverses the spur. The tarsal perforated spur and its glandular apparatus are both relatively smaller in the male Echidna than in the Ornithorhynchus. The gland is situated lower down, in the popliteal region, between the insertions of the deep-seated fasciculi of the adductor femoris and the origins of the gastrocnemius; it is of subspherical form, about the size of a pea, with a smooth exterior; the excretory duct, wide at the commencement, soon contracts into a filamentary canal, which again enlarges to form a small reservoir for the secretion just above the base of the spur. The true nature and use of this apparatus has not yet been determined. Its close analogy with the poison apparatus in other animals obviously suggests the idea of a corresponding function, but no well authenticated case of symptoms of poisoning consequent upon a wound inflicted by the spur has been recorded. It seems on the contrary that the Ornithorhyn- chus possesses not the instinct of availing itself of a weapon so formidable, as upon this theory the spur must be, when attacked or annoyed. Mr. George Bennett tried the following experi- ment with a full grown wounded but lively male Ornithorhynchus:—" I commenced by placing my hands in such a manner, when seizing the animal, as to enable it, from the direction of its spurs, to use them with effect; the result was that the animal made strenuous efforts to escape, and in these efforts scratched my hands a little with the hind claws, and even, in consequence of the position in which I held it, with the spur also. But although seized so roughly, it neither darted the spur into my hand nor did it even make an attempt so to do. As, however, it had been stated that the creature throws itself on the back when it uses this weapon, (a circumstance not very * De Blainvillc in Bulletin de la Societe Philo- inathique, 1817. * Miiller, De Glandularum penit. Struct, p. 43, tab. ii. fig. 10.