PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 72 Id 2 z 2 ••** admirable summary of the leading anatomical characters of the nervous system. His succinct description of the nervous centres is excellent, and shows that he had anticipated views which long afterwards were put forward as original. Speaking of the crura cerebri, he describes them thus, "duo magnacrura cerebri,inquihus omnis medulla ab utroque cerebri hemisphcerio collecta videtur." The compound origin of the fifth and spinal nerves and the existence of the ganglion on one of their roots he was well acquainted with. He concludes thus, " However complex be the mechanism of the nervous system, I think it can be divided into three parts, just as the functions themselves are conveniently divi- sible into three classes : namely, first, the animal organs, or those associated with the faculty of thinking, these are the brain and cerebellum ; secondly, the sensorium commune, which con- sists of the medulla spinalis and oblongata, not excepting also such part of the medulla of the brain as gives immediate origin to nerves; and, thirdly, the nerves properly so called, which are prolonged from the sensorium commune to the whole body." An examination of the comparative anatomy of the nervous svstem next follows, affording a clear and concise exposition of the existing state of knowledge on that subject. The question discussed in the succeeding section is, " quid per vim nervosam intelligitur, et quae sintgencrales ejus proprietates ? " and he affirms the principle of the inherence of the vis nervosa in the nervous structure itself, and the developement of that force by changes taking place in it. Leaving it to those who devote themselves to the study of experimental physics to inquire into the nature of the nervous force, he endeavours to determine its general proper- ties or laws before inquiring into the special functions of the nervous system. 1. The first law which he lays down is that the vis nervosa requires, for its action, a stimu- lus. Here, likewise, he repeats the assertion, that the vis nervosa is an innate property of the nervous medulla—innata pulpaa medullaris proprietas. Sicut scintilla latet in chalybe ac silice, nec prius elicitur, nisi attritus mutuus chalybis, silicisque accesserit: ita vis nervosa latet, nec actiones systematis nervosi prius pro- ducit donee stimulo applicito excitatur, quo durante durat, ablato cessat ageve, et redeunte iterum reddit." 2. The stimulus necessary for the develope- ment of the nervous force is twofold, stimulus corpo?'is and stimulus anima. The former is any body fluid or solid applied externally or internally to the nervous system. The latter is that of the mind, which, through its connection with a part of the nervous system, is capable of influencing, to a certain extent, the rest of that system and through it the body. 3. The vigour of the nervous actions bears a direct relation to that of the nervous force and to the power of the exciting stimulus. The actions of the nervous system will be greater and more vigorous in proportion as the vis ner- vosa may be more active (mobilior) and the stimulus more efficacious; on the other hand, the nervous force will be more sluggish and the stimulus less effective, where the nervous actions are more languid. A less stimulus is sufficient for a more active vis nervosa, as the application of a stronger stimulus may com- pensate for a more sluggish vis nervosa, yet an equal effect may be produced in the nervous actions. The nervous force, however, is not equally susceptible to every kind of stimulus; sometimes it obeys one more than another, although both may appear equally powerful : nay, sometimes it experiences a more powerful effect from the stimulus which may seem the mildest. According to Haller, the heart and intestines are more powerfully stimulated to contract by air blown into them than by water or by any poison ; on the contrary, a drop of water let fall into the trachea excites violent cough, whereas air passes through it in breath- ing as if unfelt by it. 4. The nervous force is augmented by va- rious circumstances. Among these he enume- rates age,—at an early age the vis nervosa being greater than at a more advanced period of life— climate, and disease. 5. On the other hand, the vis nervosa may be depressed or diminished by all causes which depress the powers of life, by the direct appli- cation of opium and other sedatives to the nervous matter. 6. " Vis nervosa est divisibilis et absque cere- bro in nervis subsistit." In illustration of this law he adduces the instances of nerves remain- ing excitable after they have been separated from the cord or from the brain ; also the exci- tability of paralytic limbs by the electrical stimulus. And, he states, the vis nervosa not only remains for a long time in the spinal cord and nerves which have been separated from the brain, but even in nerves which never had any connection with the brain, as is shown by the acephalous foetus, which, without a brain, and by the sole force of the nerves and medulla spinalis, if this be not delicient, lives the full time in the uterus of the mother, is nourished, grows, and, when it comes into the light, shows often no obscure signs of life. To this law he attributes the persistence of the rhythmical ac- tion of the heart after the decapitation of ani- mals. 7. Idiosyncrasy is a peculiar affection of the nervous force. Among the examples of idio- syncrasy he enumerates, fainting at the sight of blood, the uneasiness and even terror produced in some persons by the exhalations from a cat, which may be in the same room, although un- seen ; fainting from the perception of particular odours. In his third chapter Prochaska proceeds to examine the functions of nerves. He describes the mode of action of nerves, their power of receiving impressions with great facility, and of propagating them with the greatest velocity either to the centre or to the periphery. This power he calls the vis nervosa of nerves, which also may be called the sensibility or mobility of nerves, and to which Unzer had given the name corporeal sense without concomitant per- ception. And he shows that (his power is in-