MONOTREMATA. 371 Mary bone (Jig. 169, m) extends backwards as far as the posterior boundary of the zygomatic or temporal fossa; the palatal process extends along the floor of the orbit in a similar form and to nearly the same extent. The orbit is marked off from the temporal fossa by merely a slight ridge extending down and across the suture joining the frontal and sphenoid bones. The skull of the Echidna differs from that of the edentulous Manis and Myrmecophaga in the completion of the zygomatic arches, in the unclosed state of the tympanic cavity, in the large size of the foramen incisivum, and the surrounding of the external nostrils by the intermaxillary bones alone : it differs also in the smaller relative distance between the poste- rior palatal fissure and the superior maxillary bones, and in the apparent absence of the pala- tine bones, the presence and interposition of which between the pterygoid and maxillary palatal plates elongates the palate in the pla- cental Anteaters at the part where it is rela- tively shorter in the Echidna. In the modi- fication of the pterygoid plates of the sphenoid to complete the posterior nasal canal, the Echidna manifests an interesting resemblance with the great Anteater; but it differs from this, as from every other mammiferous species, in the palatal plates contributed by the petrous bones to the broad posterior part of the roof of the mouth which supports the horny palatal teeth. Cuvier describes the posterior palatal fissure as extending between the palatine bones, and therefore regards the plates, which are here affirmed to be developed from the petrous bone, as being the pterygoid processes of the sphenoid; and, according to this view, he truly observes that their horizontal position is very remark- able;* but he might have added, that their share in the formation of the tympanic cavity was not less so. The same determination of the bones composing the posterior part of the osseous palate of the Echidna is repeated in the Lecons d'Anatomie Comparee, 1837, p. 454. If, however, the sphenoid be sepa- rated from the occipital bone, which was easily done in the young skull of the Echidna repre- sented in figs. 169 and 170, the horizontal plates, described by Cuvier as pterygoids, are left behind, not as separate bones, but as conti- nuous portions of the petrous elements of the temporal, which form, at the same time, part of the base of the cranial cavity, complete the inner wall of the tympanum, and the anterior part of the Eustachian groove. The palatines of Cuvier are developed from the sides of the basi-sphenoid, and almost immediately bend inwards and meet below the nasal canal, which they thus prolong posteriorly, as in the Myr- mecophaga ; and they are separated poste- riorly, also, as in that genus, by an acute fissure, presenting unequivocally the same modifications * Cuvier says, " Une echancrure digne et pro- fonde separe les palatins en arriere. Le plan de chacun d'eux est continue en dessous par une apo- physe pterygoide, qui ici, chose bien remarquable, est horizontale on a peu pres : elle contribue a. former la cavite de la caisse."—Ossem. Fossiles, I. c. p. 146. Meckel is silent on this subject. which characterize the pterygoids in the pla- cental Anteaters, and in the Crocodile. The suture dividing the pterygoids from the pala- tines in the Echidna is obliterated, if it ever existed ; or the true palatines may be confluent with the palatine processes of the maxillary bones. Some of the Marsupials, as the Wombat, resemble the Echidna in the open state of the tympanic cavity in the dry skull; but the most essential points of correspondence with the cranial anatomy of the Echidna are found, as might be expected, in the Ornithorhynchus. In this Monotreme the tympanic cavity (fig. 173, a, k) is a simple excavation at the under part of the petrous bone; the periphery of the opening, which looks almost directly downwards, is en- compassed by the tympanic and malleal bones, (fig. 173, d, a, b,) the outer and anterior part of the circle being formed by the os tympanicum. The tympanic cavity is relatively smaller, but is defended posteriorly by a larger process sent downwards by the petrous bone near its outer side. The petrous bone here forms no palatal process, but the bony roof of the mouth is ter- minated by the pterygoid plates, (fig. 173, a, i,) which meet below the nasal canal, as in the Echidna, but are not divided by any posterior fissure. In a skull of the Ornithorhynchus, in which the suture dividing the palatine processes of the maxillary bones from the bony palate posterior to them remains, there is no trace of a division between the pterygoid and palatine bones, which contribute to complete the osseous palate (fig. 173, a, e). The occipital bone of the young Ornithorhyn- chus corresponds with that of the Echidna in the relative size and position of its four component parts. The ex-occipitals are shown at fig. 172, b, b, and the supra-occi- pital at c. The petrous element of the temporal (e) likewise sends a thin plate to form the poste- rior part of the side of the cranium, but it does not intervene between the pa- rietal bone and squamous part of the temporal, as in the Echidna. The middle of the upper mar- gin of the cranial plate ShuU of young Ornitho- of the petrous bone is rhynchus. (Original.) notched, and a small vacuity here intervenes between the petrous and parietal bones, which is closed by the squamo-temporal (f), the upper margin of which overlaps the descending pos- terior angle of the parietal bone (d). The form of the squamous element of the temporal is very remarkable in the Ornithorhynchus: its ascending cranial or proper squamous portion is a small sub-quadrilateral bony scale, narrower antero-posteriorly, but higher than the corres- ponding part in the Echidna ; articulated by its squamous margin with the parietal and •2 b 2