PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 722x the generative instinct and the cerebellum, from the occasional existence of an abnormal erection of the penis, is not justified by the facts. This symptom is far from being constant in cerebellar disease—indeed it occurs in but a very small number of cases—and, as a symptom pointing to lesion of a particular portion of the cerebro- spinal axis, it is much more indicative of disease of the medulla oblongata or of the cervical portion of the spinal cord. Office of the cerebral convolutions.— The great sheet of vesicular matter which forms the cortex of the human brain, is of such vast extent that it is forced to assume the convo- luted form in order to its being packed within the ordinary compass of the cranium. A little consideration will shew that the convoluted form can be regarded no otherwise than as a convenient mode of packing, and that the number and depth of the convolutions are the best indications of the superficial extent of this expanse of vesicular matter. In certain cases a slow and gradual accumulation of water within the ventricles of the brain, causing a corresponding enlargement of the cranium, expands the matter of the cerebral hemispheres, by which the ventricles are enclosed, and the convolutions become unfolded. We thus ob- tain a distinct demonstration of the true arrange- ment of this part of the hemisphere, which must be regarded as a nervous centre, con- sisting of a vast mass of the potential vesi- cular matter freely supplied with bloodvessels from a vascular surface on its exterior (the pia mater), and giving rise to an infinite multitude of nerve-fibres, which pass from its internal surface to the corpora striata and optic thalami, the centres of volition and sensation. The name which Mr. Solly has given to this ex- panse of nervous matter, hemispherical gan- glion, is very expressive, not only of its true character as a centre of nervous power, but likewise of the unity of the organ on each side, consisting as it does of an uninterrupted layer of vesicular matter with its emerging or im- merging fibres, and not of a great number of different organs, as the term convolutions would imply- This vesicular surface with the fibrous matter which connects it with the optic thalami and corpora striata forms by far the largest portion of the encephalon in the higher classes of animals. This fact alone ought to stamp it with great physiological importance. But, further, it is a well-proved fact, that the com- plexity of the convolutions in the animal scale is in the direct ratio with the advance of in- telligence. At the same time it must be re- membered that the complexity of the convo- lutions is in part determined by the size of the head and the capacity of the cranium. If, for example, the habits and mode of life of the animal require a small head and at the same time a certain degree of intelligence, the brain would exhibit a greater number and complica- tion of convolutions than would be found in an animal of corresponding intelligence, but which required and possessed a larger head. Hence neither the size nor the weight of the brain, whether absolute or in relation to the body, affords any certain criterion of the extent of the convoluted surface. Highly complicated convolutions may exist along with a brain both absolutely and relatively small. Thus, the ferret, as shown by Leuret, whose habits require a small head, has several well-marked convo- lutions on each hemisphere, and a brain no larger than that of the squirrel, which has no convolutions at all, and which wants even the few fissures which mark their first develope- ment in the rabbit, the beaver, the agouti, &c. And the last-named animals have the brain both absolutely and relatively larger than that of the cat, the pole-cat, the roussette, the unau, the sloth, and the pangolin, all of which possess convolutions. At the early periods of human life, in in- fancy and childhood, the convolutions of the brain are very imperfectly developed, but their increase of size goes on simultaneously with the advance of mental power. If the former be arrested, or if some congenital fault pre- vent the further growth of the convolutions, the mental powers are of the lowest and fee- blest kind, but little or not at all above those of the brute with imperfect convolutions. In all idiots the brain is not only small, but its convoluted surface is extremely limited. Anatomy points to the conclusion that the office of the convolutions is connected with the functions of the mind. Perception, memory, the power of abstraction, judgment, imagina- tion, all possess, as instruments of corporeal action, these folds of vesicular matter. And it seems not improbable that the phrenological view which assigns to certain convolutions a special office connected with some particular faculty or faculties is true. This is strongly supported by the fact of a regular disposition of certain primary convolutions in the various classes of animals, so that each form of brain has its proper convolutions, and that in tracing the convolutions from the most simple to the most complex, indications are found of the persistence of the primary and fundamental convolutions in the midst of many secondary and superadded ones. It may be here mentioned that Gall was by no means the first to assign this function to the convolutions. Our countryman, Willis, in the seventeenth century, distinctly advanced this opinion, and conjectured that the various gy- rations were intended for retaining the animal spirits " for the various acts of imagination and memory" within certain limits. It is important to ascertain the endowments of the fibres which connect the vesicular sur- face of the convolutions to the corpora striata and optic thalami. They might be supposed to possess similar endowments to those of sensi- tive and motor nerves, if we adopted the views of those who hold that all the nerves are con- tinued up into the brain. This point, however, has been settled in the most decisive manner by experiments, dating as far back as the time of Lorry.* Mechanical injury to them excites * Mem. do l'Acad, des Sciences, 1760.