NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Encephalon.) 665 2 lbs. 9 oz. 1 dr. I have generally found the cavity of the skull smaller in old men than in middle-aged persons. It appears to me, there- fore, probable that the brain really decreases in old age, only more remarkably in some persons than in others. "5. There is undoubtedly a very close con- nection between the absolute size of the brain and the intellectual powers and functions of the mind. This is evident from the remarkable smallness of the brain in cases of congenital idiotismus, few much exceeding in weight the brain of a new-born child. Gall, Spurzheim, Haslam, Esquirol, and others have already ob- served this, which is also confirmed by my own researches. The brain of very talented men, on the other hand, is remarkable for its size. " Anatomistsdiffervery much as to the weight of the brain compared with the bulk and weight of the body; for the weight of the body varies so much, that it is impossible to determine accurately the proportion between it and the brain. The weight of an adult varies from 100 to 800 lbs., and changes both in health and when under the influence of disease, depending in great measure on nutrition. The weight of the brain, although different in adults, remains generally the same, unaltered by the increase or diminution of the body. Thin persons have, therefore, relative to the size of the body, a larger brain than stout people. " From my researches I have drawn the fol- lowing conclusions. " 1. The brain of a new-born child is, rela- tively to the size of the body, the largest; the proportion is 1 : 6. " 2. The human brain is smaller, in compa- rison to the body, the nearer man approaches to his full growth. In the second year the pro- portion of the brain to the body is as 1 : 14; in the third, 1:18; in the fifteenth, 1 : 24. In a full-grown man, between the age of twenty and seventy years, as 1 : 35 to 45. In lean persons the proportion is often as 1 : 22 to 27" in stout persons, as 1 : 50 to 100 and more." (This estimate, as far as regards the early ages, differs from that of Dr. John Reid, pro- bably owing to the difference in the number weighed.) " 3. Although Aristotle has remarked that the female brain is absolutely smaller than the male, it is nevertheless not relatively smaller com- pared with the body; for the female body is, in general, lighter than that of the male. The female brain is for the most part even larger than the male, compared with the size of the body. " The different degree of susceptibility and sensibility of the nervous system seems to de- pend on the relative size of the brain as com- pared with the body. (qu. ?) Children and young people are more susceptible, irritable, and sensitive than adults, and have a relatively larger brain. Thin persons are more suscep- tible than stout. In diseases which affect the nourishment of the body, the susceptibility increases as the patients grow thinner. The susceptibility and sensibility decreases, on the other hand, with persons recovering from a long illness, gradually as they regain their strength. The degree of sensibility in animals is also in proportion to the size of the brain. Mammalia and birds have a larger brain and are more susceptible than amphibious animals and fishes."* Enough has been said to show, that in con- trasting the brain of man and that of the lower animals, with reference to the much agitated question of the connexion of mental faculties and intellectual endowments with that organ, no one standard of comparison must be se- lected. We must look to absolute and relative size—we must compare the bulk of the several portions of the encephalon with each other— we must notice the size of the encephalic nerves in relation to the whole organ—and, above all, we must compare the intimate or- ganization of brain one with the other. Unless all the features of the brains that are subjected to comparison be carefully taken into the ac- count, erroneous conclusions will be obtained. For instance, the brain of the elephant is ab- solutely larger than that of man: the convo- lutions of the hemispheres are very highly de- veloped, and exhibit a degree of complexity almost equal to that of the human brain. At first sight we might be led to infer a very close approximation to the human, and place the elephant very high up in the scale of cerebral developement. In comparing, however, the brain of this animal with that of the monkey, the following result is obtained. The encepha- lon of the elephant is above that of the monkey by the superior developement of the cerebral convolutions; it is equal to it, as regards the quadraueminal bodies, but from the general form of the brain, the length of its transverse diameter, the presence of olfactory eminences, the position of the cerebellum (uncovered by the posterior lobes), it must be placed on a level with that of the inferior Mammalia.f Of the bruin, in different races of mankind. —When so much diversity is observable in the form of the cranium in different races of man- kind, it seems reasonable to expect a corres- ponding variety in the shape and other charac- ters of the encephalon. The external form of this latter organ will correspond with that of the cranium, and its size with the capacity of that cavity. But it is plain that as the capacity of the skull is no wise necessarily affected by its shape, so the absolute bulk of the brain need not vary, although its containing case may ex- hibit much variety of form. The great ques- tion for the physiologist to determine is, whe- ther, in the various races of mankind, the brain exhibits any striking peculiarities, characteristic of one or more of them, or whether it presents no more variety of shape, size, weight, and structure than may be observed in different in- dividuals of any one of those races. It should be premised that actual observa- tions of the brain of different races are few. In Europe, where hitherto anatomy has chiefly * Tiedemann on the Brain of the Negio com- pared with that of the European and the Oiang Otang;. Phil. Trans. 1836. t t Leurct, op. cit. p. 448.