513 MUSCLE. Fig. 296. Trichinae wit/tin the sarcolemma, from which all the contractile material had disappeared. From an Eel. a, ovum. b, worms in slow motion. velopment, united to form a single tube, the septa at first resulting from their apposition having been absorbed. This opinion is un- doubtedly ingenious ; but, as I have yet no data from which to judge of its correctness, I neither admit nor deny it. I have seen the sarcolemma in human muscle as early as the period of birth, and have traced it at all epochs, to old age, when the atrophy of its contents has often seemed to render it more easy of detection. It also remains in muscles wasted by disease or accident at other periods of life, and no difference appears to occur in it whether the specimens examined are pale or dark-coloured, firm or flaccid. It is thickest in those classes that possess the thickest elementary fibres, viz. in Crustacea and Fish, and so thin in Birds, whose fibres are the smallest, that it is often difficult to detect it at all. With regard to the use which this singular structure may serve in the economy of the organ, our present ignorance of the manner in which motion is excited renders any explana- tion that might be offered of doubtful value. But it has appeared probable to me, first, that it may act as a mechanical protector and iso- lator of the contractile tissue enclosed within it; secondly, that its exquisitely smooth external surface may facilitate those rapid minute motions of neighbouring fibres, one against another, which may be shown to occur in contracting muscle (see Muscular Motion); and, thirdly, that from its apparent similarity in structure to the membrane of the nervous tubules, which run among the fibres, and be- tween which and the proper contractile tissue it seems certainly to intervene, as well as from its extensive contact and union with the surface of the contractile tissue, it may be the conducting medium of that influence, whose mode of propagation the late disco- very of the loop-like termination of the nerves in muscle has hitherto only seemed to render more inexplicable than ever. 8. Of' the extremities of the elementary fibres, and their attachment to other struc- tures.—Every fibre is fixed to fibrous tissue, or to something analogous to it; but an accurate examination of this difficult subject gives no countenance to the ordinarily received opinion that this tissue is prolonged over the whole fibre from end to end, as its cellular sheath; nor is this view reconcileable with the physical require- ments of the case. After many trials I have never succeeded in isolating a muscular fibre with the tendinous fibrillar pertaining to it, in either Mammalia or Birds; but this may be vol. in. occasionally accomplished in Fishes, and in certain muscles of insects. In these examples the minute detachment of the fibrous tissue may be seen to pass and become attached to the truncated extremity of the fibre. The fibre ends by a perfect disc, and with the whole surface of this disc the tendon is connected and continuous (fig. 297). The sarcolemma Fig. 297. 6 Extremity of an elementary fibre, from the Skate (Raia BatusJ, shewing its attachment to tendon. a, a, line of union between the two structures. b, tendon. c, muscle. ceases abruptly at the circumference of the terminal disc, and here some small part of the tendinous material appears to be joined to it. The same disposition may be well seen in the legs of certain insects (fig. 293). In other cases, where the muscle is fixed obliquely to a membranous surface, each fibre is obliquely truncated at its extremity, at an angle deter- mined by the inclination of its axis, instances of which may be seen in the limbs of Crus- tacea, and elsewhere. 9. Development.-—The researches of Valentin and Schwann have shewn that a muscle con- sists in the earliest stage of a mass of nu- cleated cells, which first arrange themselves in a linear series, with more or less regularity, and then unite to constitute the elementary fibres. As this process of agglutination of the cells is going forward, a deposit of contractile material gradually takes place within them, commencing on the inner surface and ad- vancing towards the centre, till the whole is solidified. The deposition occurs in granules, which, as they come into view, are seen to be disposed in the utmost order, according to the two directions already so often mentioned. These granules are the sarcous elements, and being of the same size as in the perfect muscle, the transverse stripes resulting from their appo- sition are of the same width as in the adult; but as they are very few in number, the fibres which they compose are of corresponding tenuity. From the very first period of their for- mation these granules are parts of a mass and not independent of one another, for as soon as solid matter is deposited in the cells, faiut 2 \.