MARSUPIALIA. 290 while the other tendon bends and pronates; this, which is a direct though partial continua- tion of the biceps, is inserted into the ordinary tubercle of the radius ; whereas the other ten- don is attached to the fore part of the proximal end of the ulna. The muscles which arise from the internal condyle of the humerus are the pronator teres, which has the usual origin, insertion, and rela- tive proportions, and next the palmaris longus. There are, likewise, distinct and strong fas- ciculi of muscles corresponding to the jlexor carpi ulnaris and rudialis, and to the flexor sublimis digitorum. The strong ridge continued from the olecra- non to the posterior and inner part of the ulna gives origin to a great proportion of the oblique fibres of the flexor profundus; but both this and the flexor sublimis terminate in a single thick and strong tendon, which after passing the wrist divides into those corresponding with the perforating and perforated tendons here con- centrated upon the three long middle fingers. T\\e pronator quadratus runs the whole length of the interosseous space, passing from the radius a little obliquely downwards to the ulna. The supinator longus, arising as usual from the upper part of the strongly developed ridge above the outer condyle, sends its tendon across the carpal joint, which tendon divides before it crosses, and is inserted by one of its divisions into the base of one of the metacarpal bones of the index finger, and the other to the adjoin- ing metacarpal bone. These are the principal muscles of the fore extremity which require notice in this place. Their modifications, in respect of numberand strength, relate to the act of digging up the soil, which is habitual in the Bandicoots, as it is for the purpose of obtaining food, and not for shelter. It is for this purpose that the three middle digits of the hand are developed at the expense of the other two, which are rudimental; and we have seen that thewholepowerof thedeep and superficial flexors is concentrated upon the fossorial and well-armed fingers; and that by the single common tendon m which the fleshy fibres of these muscles terminate, they move them collectively and simultaneously. Thus variety of application, and especially the pre- hensile faculty, are sacrificed to theacquisition of force for the essential action. In no Marsupial is the hand so cramped as in the Perameles, excepting in the Charopus, where the functional and fossorial fingers are reduced from three to two. It is in relation to this condition, doubt- less, that the clavicles are wanting in these genera, while all other Marsupials possess them. The inverted position of tie pouch in the Pera- meles might also be conceived to have relation to their imperfect hands, the mouth of the pouch being thus brought nearer to the vulva; but I am disposed to regard it as being more essentially connected with the habitually in- clined or procumbent position of the trunk in the Saltatorial Entomophaga. The muscles of the hinder extremity are chiefly remarkable in the Kangaroo for their prodigious strength and unusual number: the accessory muscle of the biceps, e.g. is divide into two strong fasciculi, which unite to inserted into the side of the patella;* the p riformis is also a double muscle.f The sartorius has its insertion so modifn that it becomes an extensor instead of a flex of the tibia : it is chiefly fixed to the tibial sii of the patella, and by fascia into the capsul ligament of the knee-joint and the anteri proximal tuberosity of the tibia. In a Dasyu (Das. macrurus) I found that the sartori had a similar disposition and office. In tl ambulatory carnivorous Marsupial the extern and middle glutei are so disposed as to extet the thigh, while the internal gluteus inflec and rotates it inwards. In a Bandicoot (Perameles lagotis) the sa torius ran nearly parallel with and dermad the rectus, and was inserted into the upper pa of the patella. Besides this sesamoid, whic is rarely developed in other Marsupials, found a thick cartilage attached to its upp part and interposed between the common tei don of the recti and vasti, removing that tendc further from the centre of motion and increasir the power of the extensor muscles of the leg. The rectus J'emoris has its two origins ve: distinct, and its analogy to the biceps of tl upper extremity is very close. The gracii is a very thick and strong muscle. The biceps flexor cruris in the Perameles a muscle of very great strength; it terminal in a strong and broad aponeurosis, which e: tends over the whole anterior part of the tibi being attached to the rotular tuberosity of th: bone, and terminating below in the sheath i the tendo Achillis, whereby this muscle bi comes an extensor of the foot. It is a curious fact that all the equiped; Marsupials, whether burrowers as the Won bat, climbers as the Koala, Phalangers, an Opossums, or simply gressorial, as the Dt syuridm, have the tibia and fibula so connecte together as to allow of a certain degree of r< tation upon each other, analogous to the pn natory and supinatory movements of the bon< of the antibrachium, and the muscles of th leg present corresponding modifications. It not without interest in the question of th affinities of the Marsupials to find that nor of the analogous carnivorous, pedimanous, c rodent Placentals present this condition of th hind leg. In the Dasyurus macrurus, the plantari instead of rising from the femur, has its fixe point in the fibula, from the head to half-wa down the bone, fleshy; its tendon passes ol liquely inwards and glides behind the innc malleolus to its insertion in the plantar fascii so that it rotates the tibia inwards besides es tending the foot. The soleus has an extensiv origin from the proximal to near the distal en of the fibula. There are as usual three deep seated muscles at the back of the leg. C these three the muscle analogous to the tibiali posticus is readily recognized; its tendon glide * Ciivier, loc. cit. p. 501. t Ibid. p. 502.