508 MUSCLE. The most deeply coloured muscle I have seen was the great pectoral muscle of the Teal (Querquedula crecca), killed after migration. In Mammalia the colour is ordinarily red, being deeper in the Carnivora than in the vege- table feeders. Among the domestic animals many varieties exist, which need not be spe- cially enumerated. A considerable part of the colouring matter is extracted by repeated wash- ing of a muscle, which then becomes pale, but not quite colourless; some part of the loss of colour here sustained is doubtless owing to the solution of the hajmatosine of the blood con- tained in it. A muscle, if hypertrophied, grows redder, and vice versa; and probably the practice of bleeding calves some days before they are killed, makes their flesh more pale and lender, by causing the absorption of a portion of the proper colouring matter of the fibres, as well as by abstracting the blood circulating among them. 5. Internal structure.—Though the elemen- tary fibres of all animals are visible to the naked eye, and in some animals, as the Skate (Raia Batus), are often as thick as a small pin, nothing of their internal organization can be distinguished without the aid of a powerful lens. There is indeed, in certain lights, a splendid pearly iridescence, resulting from the arrangement of their structure, and quite characteristic among the soft tissues; but this is not explained till a high power of the micro- scope is brought to bear upon the fibres. They are then seen, when viewed on the side, to be marked by innumerable alternate light and dark lines, whose delicacy and regularity nothing can surpass, and which take a parallel direction across them; and if the focus be altered so as to penetrate the fibre, they are found to be pre- sent within it just as on its surface, thus differ- ing from those on the tracheae of insects, which exist only at the surface. At the extreme border of the fibre the light lines are sometimes seen to project a trifling degree more than the dark ones, thus giving a slight scallop, or regular indentation, to the edge. If often happens, in tearing the fibres roughly with needles before examination, that they crack across, or give way entirely, along one or several of these dark lines, the line of fracture or cleavage running more or less completely through the fibre in a plane at right angles with its axis; and occasionally two or more of such complete cleavages will occur close together, the result of which is the separa- tion of so many plates or discs (jig. 287, B), of which the light lines at the surface are the edges, and the corresponding light lines seen within are what may be termed the focal sections. Thus it is evident that there is a tendency in the muss of the fibre to separate, when torn or pulled after death, along the transverse planes, of which the dark transverse stripes are the edges. When such a separation takes place, a series of discs result, but to say that the fibre is a mere pile of discs is incorrect, for the discs are only formed by its disintegration. Neverthe- less they are marked out, and their number and form are imprinted, in the very structure of the fibre, in its perfect state. ( Figs. 287 and 288.) Fig. 287. c B Fragments of striped elementary fibres, shewing a cleavage in opposite directions, magnified 300 diam. A, longitudinal cleavage. Al a the longitudinal and transverse lines are both seen. Some longitudinal lines are darker and wider than the rest, and are not continuous from end to end. b, primitive fibrillar separated from one another by violence at the broken end of the fibre, and marked by transverse lines equal in width to those at a. c represents two appearances commonly presented by the separated single fibrilla;. On the upper one the borders and transverse lines are all perfectly rectilinear, and the included spaces perfectly rect- angular. In the lower the borders are scalloped, the spaces bead-like. When most distinct and de- finite, the fibrilla presents the former of these ap- pearances. B, transverse cleavage. The longitudinal lines are scarcely visible. a, incomplete fracture following the opposite surfaces of a disc, which stretches across the inter- val and retains the two fragments in connexion. The edge and surface of this disc are seen to be minutely granular, the granules corresponding in size to the thickness of the disc and to the distance between the faint longitudinal lines. b, another disc nearly detached. But again, it always happens that longitu- dinal lines, more or less continuous and pa- rallel, according to the integrity of the fibre and the strength and distinctness of the trans- verse lines, are also to be discerned; and like the transverse ones, not on the surface only, but throughout the whole of its interior. And it is found that there is a remarkable proneness in the fibre to split in the direction indicated by these lines also; by which splitting it is resolved into a great number of fibrilla'. These fibrillar, like the discs, do not exist as such in the fibre, and to obtain them its structure must be neces- sarily broken up to a certain extent, for the union which naturally subsists between these parts must be destroyed. It is therefore most correct to say that there is an indication in the entire state of the fibre of a longitadinul ar- rangement of its parts, occasioning a cleavage in that direction on the application of violence. ( Ftg. 287.) Sometimes the fibre will split into discs only, more often into fibrillar only, but there are always present in it the transverse and the longitudinal lines which mark the two cleav- ages. It is the most common to find a crack or fracture taking both directions irregularly, runn ng partly in the transverse dark lines,