114 ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. Asphyxia is often delayed by the posterior chink of the glottis being retained partially open, in consequence of the coincident para- lysed force of the arytenoid muscles, and by the great inclination of the crico-arytenoid articu- lating axis, with respect to its vertical section, preventing the approximation of the arytenoid cartilages by which the posterior part only of the chink can be closed. When any irritation is produced on the exquisitely sensitive mucous membrane of the larynx, it transmits a reflex action to the motor filaments of the recurrent, and the glottis is spasmodically closed, without any such morbid condition of the recurrent nerve as Dr. Ley supposed necessary. The larynx, when dissected out, and cleared of its extrinsic structures, presents on its ante- rior aspect the free margin of the epiglottis, the notch of the thyroid, the pomum Adami, its mesial line, the crico-thyroid space, and liga- ment, and the anterior border of the cricoid cartilage. On each side of the larynx are observable a portion of the wings of the thyroid, the crico- thyroid muscle, the great and lesser cornu, the superior and inferior tubercles, the oblique ridge, the superior and inferior margins of the thyroid, the side of the cricoid, with a portion of the lateral crico-thyroid ligament, and the superior, inferior, and posterior margins of the cricoid. On the posterior aspect are observable, the posterior free surface of the epiglottis, the ary- tenoid cartilages and muscles, the aryteno- epiglottic mucous folds, the crico-arytenoidei postici muscles, the vertical ridge of the cricoid, the posterior margins of the thyroid, and the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilages. In the internal surface, from above, we ob- serve the superior margin of the thyroid carti- lage and great cornua, forming the superior boundary of the larynx, the superior margin and notch of the epiglottis, the cornicula la- ryngis, the arytenoid and cuneiform cartilages, the aryteno-epiglottic mucous folds, the supe- rior and inferior vocal ligaments, the ventricles, the rima glottidis, and the mucous membrane. Looking from below upwards, we perceive the inferior circular margin of the cricoid, the membrane lining its internal surface, the infe- rior aspect of the thyro-arytenoid ligaments, and the rima glottidis. The preceding outline of thegeneral anatomy of the larynx will give the reader an idea of its manifold structures, its exquisite sensibility, its complex motions, its connection with the process of deglutition, and its admirable adapt- ation for the production of sound, and may serve to impress a conviction that it is one of the most elaborate and perfect specimens of mechanism in the human body.* Bibliography.— Galeni Opera, de locis affectis, lib. i. cap. 6, p. 6. Vesalius, De corp. humani fabrica, Basiliae, fol. 1555. J. Casserius, de org vocis et auditu, Ferrara, 1600. Riolanus, Opera. Anat. Paris, fol. 1649. Bidloo, Anat. Humani Corp. * For tlie description of the vocal functions, see the Article Voice. Amstel. fol. 1685. Malpighi, Opera omnia, Lond. fol. 1687. Cowper, Myotomia veformata, Lond. 8vo. 1694, p. 80. Dodart, Mem. de l'Acad. Roy. des Sciences, 1700. Morgagni, Advers. Anat. omnia, Lugd. 1718. Santorini, Obseriationes Anat. Venice, 4to. 1724. Albinus, Hist. Muscul. Hominis, Leidae Batavoium, 4to., 1734. Ferrein, Mem. de l'Acad. Royale, 1741, p. 400. Pic- colomini, Anat. Int. Verona?, fol. 1754, p. 15, 45, 53. Duverney, Ouvres Anat. Paris, 8vo. 1761, p. 91. Window, Anat. Edinb. 8vo. 1763. Vicq d'Azyr, Mem. de l'Acad. Royale, 1779. Holler, El. Physiol. Soemmering, De corp. humani struct, vol. vi. Tra- jecti ad Moenum, 8vo. 1801. Savart, Ann. de Chimie et de Physique, Paris, 8vo. 1825. Ben- nati, Recherches sur la Mechanisme de la Voix, 8vo. Paris, 1832. Willis, Camb. Phil. Trans, vol. iv. p. 323, Camb. 1832. Cloquet, Traite d'Anat. descrip. Paris, 8vo. 1834. Lauth, Mem. de l'Acad. Royale de Med. 1835. P. Broc, Traite d'Anat. descrip. Paris, 1837, p. 527. The prin- cipal systems of anatomy. (J. Bishop.) LARYNX. (Morbid anatomy and patho- logy.)—The importance of this organ to life, and even when existence is not actually en- dangered, to the comfort and well-being of the individual, must render any deviation from its healthy and normal condition in the highest de- gree interesting to the pathologist: nor will that interest be diminished by reflecting on the paramount value of a knowledge of these de- viations to every practical physician. Small in size and composed of few and apparently sim- ple structures—its functions so obvious that any imperfection in their performance could be quickly perceived and readily understood—it would appear only reasonable to suppose that its various pathological conditions should have been observed, and the symptoms connected with them long since collected and arranged. Yet, such is not the history of the pathology of the larynx : on the contrary, it presents itself to us with all the interest of a new discovery, and whatever is known on the subject is the result of investigations made within the last few years. We have the opinion of the late Dr. Cheyne, (no mean authority on the subject,) that in the year 1800, " perhaps there was not in Britain more than one individual, namely Monro, who was acquainted with the true na- ture of the disease of which General Wash- ington died—acute laryngitis ; " and the same writer goes on to shew that in ten years subse- quent to that general's death, Dr. Baillie, then at the head of the medical profession in Eng- land, admitted that he was ignorant of the nature of the same malady. But without reverting so far back, I may be permitted to state, that within a comparatively recent period I can personally remember the lack of know- ledge that obtained amongst medical practi- tioners in this particular, and the deplorable results that too frequently ensued : and al- though it may be gratifying to reflect on the altered condition of things at present, yet it must be obvious that a subject so short a time under investigation cannot be expected to have been thoroughly worked out. Much as has been brought forward—perhaps more remains behind, and any person now attempting to give