ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 190 * Anatomie Pathologique, vol. ii. p. 597. The fatty deposition is obviously an undue congestion is also frequently present, and tinges the substance of the organ with a variable hue of yellow, green, &c. Portal observes that the liver of patients who have died of scurvy is often so much softened that it appears in a stale of decomposition, has a reddish brown colour, and resembles the lees of red wine. Baillie remarks that softening of the liver is not uncommon in old persons, that it ap- proaches in consistence to the texture of the spleen, and is of a brownish red colour. e. Induration of the liver is occasionally attendant upon hypertrophy or atrophy of the organ, but it may also exist with a normal size of the liver without other apparent change than the brownish red tint which it receives from venous congestion, or the various shades of yellow, green, or brown induced by biliary congestion. The density and hardness acquired by the liver in a state of atrophy are sometimes truly astonishing. In a case detailed by Mor- gagni the organ resisted the knife, and several such instances are to be met with among the writings of the older pathologists. J'. Fatty degeneration of the liver.—Upon referring to the section upon the chemical analysis of the liver, it will be observed that a certain proportion of oily matter is one of its natural constituents. Under the influence of diseased action this quantity is greatly aug- mented, and increases to such an extent as completely to take the place of the normal structures. Vauquelin has published an analy- sis of a fatty liver, from which the quantity of oily matter present may be fairly estimated thus; in 100 parts he found, Oil 45 Parenchyma 19 Water 36 100 The fatty matter is usually distributed equally through the organ, being apparently infiltrated into the cellular texture of the parenchyma. At other times it is deposited in a mass or forms se- veral collections in different parts of theliver. The fatty liver is greasy upon the surface, and when cut into has the appearance of a section of yellow soap. The vessels seem pressed upon and are scarcely perceptible, while the gTeasy deposition is divided into angular masses by a coarse and compressed cellular tissue. Patty liver is generally consistent and solid in its texture, but sometimes the fat exists almost in a fluid state. Portal has observed the liver quite white and softened almost to the fluidity of melted fat, where no hepatic sym- ptoms existed during life; and he particularly records the case of a woman suffering under a severe form of syphilis in which this condition of the liver existed. From the name which has been given to this disease by pathologists, fatty degeneration, we might be led to infer that the texture of the organ was actually converted into this oily sub- stance. This, however, is quite inconsistent with our knowledge of pathological phenomena. secretion of a normal constituent, but whether resulting from irritation from whatever cause, or from absence of vital energy, is a question upon which I am unwilling, without further investigation, to hazard an opinion. With regard to the causes of fatty liver Andral observes, " Les causes sous l'influence des quelles le foie devient le siege d'une secretion de matitte grasse sont encore inconnues. On n'a 6mis qu'une hypothese lorsq'on a dit que la degeneration graisseuse du foie etait le produit d'une irritation de cet organe. Car on pourrait tout aussi bien soutenir que cette degeneration graisseuse, loin d'avoirete precedee par un etat d'irritation du foie, est survenue parceque la nutrition de cet organe est devenue moins active; et cette derniere hypothfese serait d'au- tant plus soutenable, qu'elle se deduirait d'une grande loi de l'economie en vertu de laquelle, toutes les fois qu'un organe tend a s'atrophier, une maliere grasse vient a se secreter autour de cet organe ou a la place meme de ses mole- cules."* Fatty liver is most frequently observed in persons who have died from scrofulous tubercles in the lungs; in those, says Andral, in whom the blood has not been efficiently arterialised, and in whom the pulmonary exhalation is greatly diminished. Can it be, he inquires, from the absence of the due separation of hydrogen from the lungs that this compound of hydrogen, fat, becomes deposited in the paren- chyma of the liver? This question is well deserving the attention of pathologists, and its solution might lead to important information. The disease has also been observed in some cancerous disorders and in dartrous diseases of of the skin. g. Pus. Abscess in the liver occurs in two principal forms, either as a single abscess of large size inclosed in a cyst, or as numerous small collections of matter, bounded by the substance of the liver or diffused amongst its lobules. In the first form it constitutes idio- pathic abscess of the liver, a disease of tropical countries, and rare in our temperate climates. Abscess is generally preceded by acute inflam- mation and more rarely by chronic inflamma- tion, and attains an enormous size, engrossing the whole of the right lobe and sometimes con- verting the entire organ into one huge cyst. The cyst may be thin or thick, and more or less organised. Andral and Louis conceive that its internal surface is analogous to a mucous membrane. The quantity of pus contained in one of these abscesses varies from a few ounces to several pints. My friend Dr. Macnaught, who has seen much practice in the West Indies during a residence of twenty-two years in Jamaica, has observed that abscess in the liver occurs more rarely in the West than in the East, and, moreover, that this disease affects the Euro- peans and not the Negroes. During the whole of his experience he never saw a single case of abscess in the liver in the Negro, and among the white population of his district only four well- marked instances.