13 INSTINCT. formed. And if, with Darwin and some others, we doubt of the existence of a blind instinctive propensity as the cause of these movements, we have no resource but to ascribe them to a very high degree of intelligence, combined with much mental resolution, and extending to all or almost all the individuals of the species, enabling them to foresee evils that are still remote, and determining them to undergo labour, fatigue, and danger in order to avoid them. It has also been repeatedly ascertained that the same indi- viduals return after their six months of absence and long voyages, to the very spots where they had been brought forth, implying a power of discernment and recollection which appear to us quite inconceivable. Of such high qua- lities of mind we see no indications in the other actions of these birds, excepting only in their preparations for the nurture of their young ; and if they really possessed these qualities, we might expect with perfect confidence to see them devise many contrivances for their comfort and convenience, and to witness variations and im- provements in habits, which we know from the writings of the ancient naturalists to have been perfectly uniform and stationary at least since the time of Aristotle. There are some of the Mammalia, chiefly of the order Ruminantia, which likewise perform periodical migrations in the natural state, as has been particularly noticed in America, of the bison, the musk-ox, and rein-deer. A similar instinct has been observed in the quaggas in Africa ; and a singular observation, as shewing a variation of instinct according to varying cir- cumstances, was made by Dr. Richardson, that the American black bear, when lean, and from that cause unfitted for hybernation, migrates in severe winters from trie northward into the United States. The periodical migrations of fishes appear to be designed for the benefit of their offspring, not for their own preservation; and there are other migrations, in immense numbers,of various kinds of animals which are not periodical, and of which the object is still obscure, but which do not fall under the present head. If. Of instincts /or the propagation and support of off spring.—Of the very curiously varied instincts of animals connected with the propagation and support of their off- spring, we need not dwell on those winch must necessarily attend the very various kinds of organs (so well arranged and de- scribed by Cuvier), by which the impreg- nation of the ova in the different tribes of animals is effected—the instincts, e.g. which prompt most male fishes to impregnate eggs already laid, and many reptiles to impregnate them at the moment of their emission from the body of the female, or which guide the different warm-blooded animals in the different modes of their sexual intercourse. The in- stincts which enable animals to anticipate and provide for the wants of their young are still more varied, and imply mental processps of greater complexity. The most important of these may be referred to the following heads. I. This is probably one object of the migra- tions of birds above-mentioned, and certainly the main object of the migrations of great swarms of fishes, both in the sea, and of those which ascend the rivers ; to which the same observations, as to the return to the same spot whence they had formerly departed, and as to the labours and hazard which the instinct im- pels them to incur, are in many instances appli- cable. " The cod-fish makes for the coast at spawn- ing time, going northward ; this takes place towards the end of winter, or the beginning of spring. " The mackarel hybernates in the Arctic, Antarctic, and Mediterranean Seas, where it is stated to select certain depths of the sea called by the natives Barachouas, which are so land- locked, that the water is as calm at all times as in the most sheltered pools. " It is in these that the mackarel, directed by instinct, pass the winter. In the spring they emerge in infinite shoals from their hiding places, and proceed southward for the purposes of depositing their eggs in more genial seas. " What the mackarel is to the north of Europe, the thunny is to the south. It de- posits its eggs in May and .Tune, when it enters the Mediterranean, seeking the shores in shoals arranged in the form of a parallelogram, or as some say, a triangle, and making a great noise and stir. " The herring may be said to inhabit the arctic seas of Europe, Asia, and America, from whence they annually migrate at different times in search of food, and to deposit their spawn. Their shoals consist of millions of myriads, and are many leagues in width, many fathoms in thickness, and so dense that the fishes touch each other." " The largest and strongest are said to lead the shoals, which seem to move in a certain order, and to divide into bands as they proceed, visiting the shores of various inlands and countries, and enriching their in- habitants." " They seek places for spawning where stones and marine plants abound, against which they rub themselves alternately on each side, all the while moving their fins with great rapidity." •' In temperate climates the salmon quits the sea early in the spring, when the waves are driven by a strong wind against the river currents." " They leave the sea in numerous bands formed with great regularity. The largest individual, which is usually a female, takes the lead, and is followed by others of the same sex, two and two, each pair being at the distance of from three to six feet from the preceding one; next come the old, and after them the young males in the same order." " They employ only three months in ascending to the sources of the Maraguon, the current of which is remarkably rapid, which is at the rate of nearly forty miles a day ; in a smooth stream or lake their progress would increase in a four-fold ratio. Their tail is a very powerful organ, and its muscles have wonderful energy ; by placing it in their mouth, they make of it a very elastic spring, for, letting it go with violence, they raise themselves in the air to the