PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 72lQ When to these results, obtained from patho- logical researches, we add those of experiment, nothing is gained which can be favourable to the attribute of sensitive power to the posterior columns of the cord. Dr. Baly's experiments on tortoises showed that movements might be excited whether the anterior or the posterior columns were irritated, much stronger mo- tions being excited by the posterior than by the anterior columns. Longet found that mo- tions might be excited by irritation of the posterior columns of the cord if the experiment had been made immediately after the transverse division of the cord, and he refers such mo- tions, probably with justice, to an excited state of the cord. After a little time this subsides, and then M. Longet was able to pass the galvanic current through each or both of the posterior columns, without exciting any mo- tions when the lower segment of the cord was acted upon, but causing pain, as evinced by loud cries and writhing of the body, when the upper segment was tried. From experiments of this kind no satisfactory deductions can be made: to irritate the posterior columns of the spinal cord in a living dog without affecting in some degree the posterior roots of the nerves, appears to me to be quite impossible, even in the hands of the most practised vivisector. Neither anatomy, pathological observation, nor experiment, lend sufficient countenance to the doctrine of the identity of the function of the posterior roots and posterior columns to jus- tify us in concluding that these columns are the ordinary channels for the transmission of the sensitive impressions made upon the trunk and extremities. I have long been strongly impressed with the opinion that the office of the posterior columns of the spinal cord is very different from any yet assigned to them. They may be in part commissural between the several segments of the cord, serving to unite them and harmonize them in their various actions, and in part sub- servient to the function of the cerebellum in regulating and co-ordinating the movements necessary for perfect locomotion. This view is suggested by a comparison of the spinal cord with the brain, and by the ana- tomical connections of the posterior columns. The brain is an organ composed of various segments, which are connected with each other by longitudinal commissures. The cord is obviously divisible into a number of ganglia, each forming a centre of innervation to its proper segment of the body. These portions must be connected by similar longitudinal commissures to those which confessedly exist in the brain. If we admit such fibres to be necessary to ensure harmony of action between the several segments of the encephalon, there are as good grounds for supposing their exist- ence in the cord as special connecting fibres between its various ganglia to secure consen- taneousness of action between them. The attribute of locomotive power rests upon the connection of the posterior columns with the cerebellum, and the probable influence of that organ over the function of locomotion and the maintenance of the various attitudes and postures. If the cerebellum be the regulator of these locomotive actions, it seems reasonable to suppose that these columns, which are so largely connected with it, each forming a large propor- tion of the fibrous matter of each crus cerebelli, should enjoy a similar function, and that, as they are the principal medium through which the cerebellum is brought into connection with the cord, it must be through their constituent fibres that the cerebellum exerts its influence on the centre of innervation to the lower extremities and other parts concerned in the locomotive function, and on the nerves distributed to these parts. The nearly uniform size of the posterior co- lumns in the different regions of the cord, whilst it may be noted as unfavourable to their being viewed as channels of sensation, may be adduced as a good argument in favour of their being concerned in locomotion and acting as commissural fibres. It is a fact worthy of notice that these columns experience no marked diminution in size until the large sacral nerves, which furnish the principal nerves of the lower extremities, begin to come off. The reason of this is probably because the fibres of these co- lumns connect themselves in great part with the lumbar swelling of the cord, and some of them perhaps pass into the sacral nerves. The following remarks will serve to explain the manner in which the posterior columns may contribute to the exercise of the locomotive function. In examining a transverse section of the cord in the lumbar region, we observe a great predominance of its central grey matter; the posterior columns appear large, and the antero-lateral columns seem inadequate in pro- portion to the large roots of nerves which emerge from it. Now, an analysis of the loco- motive actions shows, with great probability, that they are partly of a voluntary character, and partly dependent on the influence of phy- sical impressions upon that segment of the cord from which the nerves of the lower extre- mities are derived. Thete are two objects to be attained in progression, namely, to support the centre of gravity of the body, and to propel it onward. The former object is attained by physical nervous actions, the latter by mental. The support of the centre of gravity of the body requires that the muscles of the lower extremi- ties, the pillars of support to the trunk, should be well contracted in a degree proportioned to the weight they have to sustain. The contrac- tion of these muscles seems well provided for in an arrangement for the developement of nervous power by a stimulus propagated to the centre, and then reflected upon the motor nerves of these muscles. The stimulus is afforded by the application of the soles of the feet to the ground ; it is therefore proportionate to the weight which presses them down- wards. It is well known that reflex actions are more developed in the lower than in the upper extremities, and the surface of the sole of the foot is well adapted for the reception of sensitive impressions. No object can be as- signed for this peculiarity, unless it have re-