7211. PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. muscular coat of the bladder are the usual means by which the action of this viscus is promoted. It is possible that, as with the rec- tum, under peculiar circumstances the physical stimulus acting refiexly on the muscular fibres themselves may come in aid of that of volition ; but such a mode of action is not the ordinary one. A line of argument similar to that which disproves the reflex nature of the action of the sphincter ani tells equally againstthat of the sphincter vesica. Were the action of this mus- cle reflex, it ought to remain perfect when- ever a sufficiently large segment of the cord remains in connexion with the bladder. Now when the spinal cord is severed in any region so as to occasion paralysis of the lower extre- mities, there is almost always incontinence of urine from the removal of voluntary influence from the sphincter vesica;: such ought not to be the case, if Dr. Hall's views were correct. Respecting the cardia and the valvula coli, I shall only remark that the evidence of reflex action is extremely defective. The cardia, in- deed, has no sphincter; it is closed by the lower circular fibres of the oesophagus, which keep that canal in a contracted state by their tone or passive contraction. The pylorus is provided with a sphincter muscle of great power, which closes that orifice by its passive contraction, and which in animals recently killed will continue to close the orifice as long as the muscle retains its tone. If an animal be killed during stomach digestion, the stomach may be removed, and yet the pylorus will retain the food in it even against gravity ; the cardia, if a sufficient portion of the oesophagus be retained, will resist the escape of the food; but, from the absence of a true sphincter, to a much less degree than the pylorus. It is im- possible that, under these circumstances, there could be any reflex action, as the stomach is removed from its connection with the nervous centre. The valvula coli appears to act simply on mechanical principles. There is, I apprehend, no more evidence of the exclusively reflex nature of the acts of expulsion than of that of the acts of retention. The expulsion of the faces and that of the urine are voluntary acts, aided essentially by the con- tractile power of the muscular fibres of each vis- cus, and perhaps, under peculiar circumstances, by a physical excitant. Were this power reflex, the expulsion would be no doubt much more frequent and much less under control, and, therefore, productive of frequent serious incon- venience. The expulsion of perspiration is probably effected by the simplest mechanical means, the newly secreted fluid pushing before it that which was previously formed. The expulsion of the semen does, indeed, exhibit the characters of a true reflex act; but here how marked is the physical stimulus, and how necessary that it should reach a certain point of excitement before the action of expulsion re- sponds to it! As to the expulsion of the foetus in parturition, while I am willing to admit that the physical power of the cord excited by the sensitive nerves at the neck of the uterus may exercise some influence on the contrac- tions of the uterus, it seems to me quite evi- dent that the actions of this organ are reflex only to a very slight degree. In the first place, anatomy teaches us that the muscular parts of the uterus have a very trifling connexion with the spinal cord; the nerves distributed to it being few, and these only partially derived from the spinal cord. Secondly, parturition may take place even when the spinal cord has been diseased or divided so as to cut off its in- fluence upon the inferior half of the body. Thirdly, it has lately been ascertained that in women under the influence of ether, the act of parturition may take place with vigour, although the nervous power have been very considerably depressed by the influence of that agent. The immediate agent of expulsion in defal- cation, micturition, and parturition is the inhe- rent contractility of the muscular coat of the proper organ. Being hollow muscles, the sti- mulus of distension is well adapted to excite them to contract. The will exercises consider- able power in defalcation and micturition, both upon the muscular fibres of the viscera themselves, and on the abdominal muscles. In parturition the voluntary contraction of these latter muscles may give some assistance, but the main force of expulsion is due to the con- traction of the uterine muscular fibres. In all the three actions, however, the influence of the muscular fibres of the viscera respectively en- gaged may be materially promoted by the con- tractions of the abdominal muscles, which are partly voluntary and partly reflex, being excited by the pressure of the mass to be expelled on the sensitive nerves in the neighbourhood, which, acting on the spinal cord, stimulate the muscular nerves, and through them cause the muscles they supply to contract, in harmony with the muscular tunic of the expelling viscus, rectum, bladder, or uterus, as the case may be. I may here remark, that whilst it is suffi- ciently evident that expulsion of the semen is a physical or reflex act, it cannot be admitted that erection of the penis is essentially so in its ordinary mode of production. This act is one of emotion—a simple emotion of the mind is sufficient to develope it: it may, however, be developed by the application of a stimulus to the penis or scrotum, when it clearly partakes of the character of a reflex act, although even under these circumstances it would be incor- rect to say that emotion had no influence in its production. It is well known, however, that in cases where the spinal cord has been severely injured, severed indeed, by fracture and dis- placement of some of the vertebrae, erection of the penis may be produced, although the organ is insensible, and the influence of the mind over the lower half of the body is suspended, and that even a slight stimulus, as the friction of the bedclothes, or the introduction of a catheter, is sufficient for this purpose. This is clearly a purely reflex act, wholly independent of sensa- tion or emotion ; but it may be likewise pro- duced or kept up by the irritated state of the cord itself. The painful erection of the penis, called chordee, which occurs incases of inflam- matory gonorrhoea, is partly a reflex phenome-