288 MARSUPIALIA. Fig. 112. Abdominal mimcles, Phalangista vulpina. Supial bone (a), over which its strong inner tendon is spread; the external oblique becomes aponeurotic at a line continued from the mar- supial bone outwards, with a gentle curve, to- wards the anterior extremity of the ilium ; and in the opposite direction, or inwards, the car- neous fibres of the external oblique terminate in an aponeurosis along a line parallel with the oblique outer margin of the pyramidalis; the fascia continued from the latter boundary of the fleshy fibres passes over, or dermad of, the so- called pyramidalis, and meets its fellow at the linea alba ; it is strictly analogous to the anterior layer of the sheath of the rectus in ordinary Mam- malia It is seen reflected from the pyramidalis, at b,Jig. 112. The aponeurosis continued from the external and inferior boundary of the car- neous fibres divides as usual into two distinct portions; one, corresponding to the internal or mesial pillar of the abdominal ring, spreads its glistening fibres, as above described, over the dermal surface of the marsupial bone (c), to which it closely adheres: the other column (d) contracts as it descends obliquely inwards, forms, like Poupart's ligament, the upper boun- dary of the space through which the psoas and iliacus muscles and femoral vessels and nerves escape from the pelvis, and is finally inserted, thick and strong, into the outer end of the base of the marsupial bone. This bone is so connected with the pubis that its movements are almost limited to di- rections forwards and backwards, or those con- cerned with the dilatation and diminution of the abdominal space ; the contraction of the abdominal muscles must draw the bones in- wards so as to compress the contents of the abdomen, and so far as the connections of the bone permit, which is to a very trifling degree, the external oblique may draw it outwards to- wards the ilium. In some Marsupials,as the Koala, the triceps adductor femoris sends a slip of fibres to the external angle of the base of the marsupial bone, and would more directly tend to bend that bone outwards. The upper or anterior fibres of the internal oblique have the usual origin ; the lower ones (e) arise fleshy from the outer and anterior spine of the ilium, and for an inch along an aponeurotic chord extended from that process to the upper part of the acetabulum : these car- neous fibres pass inwards, and slightly upwards, and terminate close to the outer margin of the rectus, where they adhere very strongly to the transversalis, but give off a separate sheet of thin aponeurosis which is lost in the cellular sheath of the posterior rectus. The fleshy fibres of the transversalis abdomi- nis (f) are closely connected by dense cellular tissue with those of the internal oblique ; they are arranged in finer fasciculi, and have, as usual, a more transverse direction ; they termi- nate along the same line as those of "the internal oblique in an aponeurosis (g), which is con- tinued along the inner or central surface of the posterior rectus to the median line. The lower boundary of the fleshy fibres of the transversalis is parallel with the line extended transversely between the anterior extremities of the ilia; a fascia, less compact than an aponeurosis, is con- tinued downwards from this margin, and enve- lopes the cremaster and the constituents of the spermatic chord, as they pass outwards and forwards beneath the lower edge of the internal oblique. The ■pyramidalis (h) arises from the whole inner or mesial margin of the marsupial bone, from which the fibres diverge, the lower ones passing transversely across the interspace of the bones, and meeting at a very fine raphe, or linea alba ; while those fibres from the anterior ends of the marsupial bones gradually exchange their transverse direction for one obliquely for- wards. The breadth of each pyramidalis oppo- site the upper end of the marsupial bone is more than an inch, the thickness of the muscle one line. The rectus abdominis or posterior rectus (;') comes off from the pubis along the inner part of the strong ligamentous union of the broad base of the marsupial bone, and ex- pands as it ascends until it attains the level of the ensiform cartilage, when the rectus dimi- nishes as it is inserted into the sternal extre- mities of the ribs reaching to the manubrium sterni and first rib in the Dasyures, as in the cats. The slight indications of tendinous inter- sections which were noticed in this dissection were confined to the posterior or central super- ficies of the muscle; the first extended only half-way across from the outer margin. The cremaster (/c), in the Phalanger and Opossum, is not a fasciculus of fibres simply detached from the lower margin of the internal oblique or transversalis, but arises by a narrow though strong aponeurosis from the ilium, within and a little above the lower boundary of the internal oblique, with the fibres of which the course of the cremaster is not parallel; it might be considered as a part of the trans- versalis, but it is separated by the fascia above mentioned from the carneous part of that mus- cle. Having emerged from beneath the margin of the internal oblique, the cremaster escapes