MOTION. 442 perfect insect, which support the three first rings of the trunk. In many larvae there are no organs of locomotion, whilst others are furnished with a variable num- berof rudimental legs, presenting differently constituted organs for progression. Most of the larvae of the Lepidoptera have ten pair of these pro-legs, respectively arti- — culated to the sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, ( and anal segments of the body. One family, the Lophyrus, has sixteen pro-legs. Others, as the Stylotoma, have fourteen, and the Tenthredo twelve. The perfect legs move (according to Kirby and Spence) in the same order as in the imago state; the pro- legs serve not only to raise and support the abdominal and caudal segments of the trunk, but also to assist in grasping objects in the plane of motion, and in urging the centre of gravity forwards. When the head and thoracic segments are fixed, the body and tail are drawn forwards ; the trunk is arched in the vertical plane; the tail being fixed, the pro-legs are advanced successively in pairs, beginning from the anal segment; the body is then extended, and the head advanced to take a new position ; a conspicuous undulation of the body is produced, proceeding from the caudal to the cephalic seg- ments. The larva of the Ant-lion (Myrmeleon) moves in a backward direction, even after the removal of its legs. Many larvae, such as the Caterpillar of the Hawk-moth, move with ex- treme slowness, whilst others possess consi- derable powers of locomotion, as the Apotela Leporina, which has received its appellation from the rapidity of its movements. But of all terrestrial larvae, the most remarkable for their attitudes and motions are the Geometrae. The true Geometrae have only two anal, and two in- termediate pro-legs ; with these they grasp any object so as to fix the anal extremity : the trunk, with the head, is then extended, elevated, and inclined from the horizontal towards the vertical position, and the animal appears to be in the act of surveying surrounding objects as repre- sented in jig. 233. In progression,thehead being Fig. 233. fixed on the surface of motional c (fig. 234) ; the anal extremity is drawn forwards to the thoracic segments, from a to b; the trunk is then again extended to d, and a series of the same alternate flexions and extensions is em- ployed to carry the larva onwards. During progression, the Geometrae spin a silken cord, which they fix by the head on the plane of position at each step, thus measuring the dis- tance over which they pass. The use of this cord is to enable them to descend from the Fig. 234. b € d trees, however lofty, on which they feed, and to reascend by the same means, without the necessity of taking a circuitous route, and encountering the inequalities of the trunk and branches. In like manner the Caterpillars of the Cabbage-butterfly weave a ladder of silk on the plane of a glass-window, which serves as a fulcrum for its legs, and thus enables the animal to ascend. Perfect Insects.—The order in which the legs of the Hexapods move in walking or running has been accurately explained by Professor Midler. Whilst watching insects which move slowly, he observed that three of their legs were always moving at the same time; these were advanced and put to the ground, whilst the other three propelled the body of the insect forwards. The feet, which moved simultaneously, were the fore and hindmost foot on one side, and the middle foot of the opposite side; then the fore and hind foot on this side, and the middle one of the other side, so that in two steps all the six feet are set in motion.* In the first movement, whilst the legs, 1, 2', 3, (fig- 235) Fig. 235. remain on some solid to support the body, and project it forwards, the other three legs, 1/ 2, 3', are raised and advanced ; then, whilst the legs, 1', 2, 3' are, in their turn, supporting the body, 1, 2', 3 are raised and advanced, and so on alternately. It will be observed, that the base of support in these movements is a triangular plane, with the three feet placed on the three angles; the base and apex of the triangle alternating at each alternate movement of each set of legs; so that in the first move- ment, the apex, which is at 2, takes the oppo- site side at 2' in the second step. The Hexa- pods are supported by their three pairs of legs, and the stability of the animal is increased by the horizontal direction of the legs outward, this arrangement affording a larger base for the support of the centre of gravity. The first pair of legs being articulated to the prothorax, the second pair to the mesothorax, and the third to the metathorax, also gives to the longest axis an increased stability. The articulation of * Muller, by Dr. Baly, p. 970.