ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 59 Fig. 2. Left knee-joint, front view. The prominent swelling on the left, A, is from the en- larged head of the tibia; that on the riijlit, B, is the soft globulwr swelling resulting from the ejf'mion into the synovial membrane. per and projecting margin of the inner condyle of the tibia : it leans to the inner hamstring muscle. The rest of the popliteal space pre- sents a normal appearance. When the limb is fully extended, and the muscles are allowed to remain in a passive state, the patella may be moved from side to side with much freedom. It appears to float as it were on the surface of an accumulated quantity of synovial fluid. When pressed against the trochlea of the femur, this fluid is moved laterally, and the patella strikes against the femur, and if a lateral movement be now communicated to this bone, a grating of rough surfaces may be perceived. If we grasp the leg and flex it on the thigh, we find we can elicit a peculiar articular crepitus. In this case it is quite audible, and resembles much the noises which electric sparks make when dis- charged in quick succession from an electrical apparatus. When the limb is much flexed, the swelling of course feels remarkably hard and solid, but when the limb is again brought back to its ordinary state of extension, fluctua- tion may be felt very evidently in it over its whole surface. The popliteal bursa, however, is felt very tense in the extended position of the joint, as when the patient stands and throws his weight on the limb. If we feel this bursa, and then cause the patient's limb to be flexed, we can follow the fluid, as it were, with our fingers into the articulation. As the patient lies in bed, the limb left in the extended posi- Fig. 3. Left knee-joint, side view, shewing the enlarged bursa in the popliteal space. tion, and the synovial sac as flaccid as possible, moveable bodies may be detected in its interior. Some appear to be adherent, and situated more particularly in the upper portion of the sub- crural bursa. When we elevate the leg, and preserve it still in the fully extended position, the patient, without any apprehension of pain, will permit us to press it firmly against the femur, and does not experience the least suf- fering even if we strike the heel forcibly. (See Hip, abnormal condition of.) Both knee-joints in this case are affected with this disease, but the left is more distended by fluid than the right. The inner condyles of the femur and tibia of this limb are thrown somewhat inwards, and form a salient angle in this direction, which, the patient says, is cer- tainly the result of disease, as his limbs were perfectly straight before he was visited by his present illness. Although his knee-joints are more affected with this chronic disease, his other joints pre- sent very evident traces of this afflicting malady. The disease in him followed a rheumatic fever, which was brought on in consequence of his having lain a whole night asleep on a wet road, having fallen unobserved from his cart when in a state of intoxication. Although this is not the place to speak of treatment, we may be permitted to say that under the influence of rest in bed and a mild mercurial course, followed by a long-continued use of sarsaparilla with large doses of the hydriodate of potass, this man left the hospital, by no means cured, but much improved and tolerably well able to follow his occupation.