301 MARSUPIALIA. The stomach of the Kangaroo may be re- garded as consisting of a left, a middle, and a right or pyloric division. The left extremity of the stomach is bifid, and terminates in two round cul-de-sacs. The sacculi of the stomach are produced, like those of the colon, by three narrow longitudinal bands of muscular fibres, which gradually disappear, together with the sacculi at the pyloric division. One of the longitudinal bands runs along the greater cur- vature, at the line of attachment of the gastro- colic omentum ; the others commence at the base of the left terminal pouches, and run, one along the anterior, the other along the posterior side of the stomach : the interspace, between these bands, forming the lesser curvature of the stomach, is not sacculated. The largest of the two terminal sacculi (d,Jig.\24) is lined with an insulated patch of vascular mucous membrane, which is continued for the extent of five inches into the cardiac cavity ; the epi- thelium is continued from the oesophagus in one direction into the nearest and smallest sac- culus, and extends in a sharp-pointed form for a considerable distance in the opposite direction into a series of sacculi in the middle compart- ment of the stomach (c): this epithelium is quite smooth. The vascular mucous surface recom- mences by a point at the great curvature, near the beginning of the middle compartment, and gradually expands until it forms the lining of the whole inner surface of the right half of the stomach. Three rows of clusters of mucous fol- licles (g,g) are developed in the mucous mem- brane of the pyloric half of the middle com- partment; they are placed parallel with the lon- gitudinal muscular bands: about fifteen patches are situated along the greater curvature, and there are nine in each of the anterior and posterior rows. These glandular patches disappear alto- gether in the pyloric compartment of the stomach, where the lining membrane is thickened, and finely corrugated; but immediately beyond the pylorus there is a circular mucous gland three- fourths of an inch broad : the non-sacculated pyloric division of the stomach was five inches in length. In the smaller species of Kangaroo the stomach is less complicated than in the Macro- pus major ; the number of sacculi is fewer: in Macropus Parryi, Ben. the third longitudinal band at the great curvature of the stomach is almost obsolete: in the Brush-tailed or Rock Kangaroo, ( Macropus penicillatus,) the cardiac extremity terminates in a single sub-clavate cul- de-sac. In all the species which I have exa- mined the oesophagus terminates in the middle ■division of the stomach, close to the produced crescentic fold which separates it from the cardiac compartment. In the great Kangaroo a second slighter fold is continued from the right side of the cardiac orifice parallel with the preceding, and forming with it a canal, somewhat analogous to that in the true ruminating stomachs, and along which fluids, or solid food not requiring previous preparation in the cardiac cavity, might be conducted into the middle compartment. I have more than once observed the act of rumination in the Kangaroos kept in the Viva- rium of the Zoological Society. It does not take place while they are recumbent, but when the animal is erect upon the tripod of the hind legs and tail. The abdominal muscles are in violent action for a few seconds, the head is then a little depressed, and the cud is masti- cated by a rapid rotatory motion of the jaws. This act is by no means repeated in the Kangaroos with the same frequency or regularity as in the true Ruminants. A fact may, however, be noticed as an additional analogy between them ; balls of hair, cemented by mucus, adpressed and arranged in the same direction, are occa- sionally formed in the stomach, of which I have met with two, of an oval shape, in the Macropus Parryi. In the genus Hypsipn/mnus the stomach is as singularly complicated as in the Kangaroos, and the complication is essentially the same in both; arising from the sacculation of the pa- rietes of a very long canal by a partial dispo- sition of shorter bands of longitudinal fibres ; but in the Potoroos this sacculation is confined to that part of the stomach which lies to the left of the oesophagus, while the right division of the cavity has the ordinary form and struc- ture of the pyloric moiety of a simple stomach. The left or cardiac division is enormously de- veloped ; in relative proportion, indeed, it is surpassed only by the true ruminant stomachs, in which both the rumen and reticulum are expansions of the corresponding or cardiac moiety of the stomach. The relation of the stomach of a Potoroo to that of a Kangaroo may be concisely expressed by stating that the termination of the oesophagus in the former is removed from the commencement of the middle sacculated compartment to its termination. When fluid is injected into the stomach of a dead Potoroo, it distends first the pyloric division; it is probably by a kind of anti- peristaltic action that the aliment is propelled into the long sacculated coecum to the left of the oesophagus. The modifications of the epiploon, as an ap- pendage to the stomach, may here be noticed. In the Kangaroo it is of very moderate size, being continued loosely from the stomach to the transverse colon, but not extended beyond that part. The posterior layer lies between the stomach and the intestines, and affords a good illustration of one of the uses of the epiploon, as it evidently prevents these parts from inter- fering with each other's motions. The anterior layer generally contains more or less fat. In the Petaurus the great omentum is continued from the great curvature of the stomach, and the commencement of the duodenum. In the Phalangers it is of considerable extent, and is usually loaded with fat. In the Opossums I have found it generally devoid of fat, when this substance has been accumulated in other parts. In the Phascogales and Dasyures the epiploon is of moderate size, and contains little or no fat. Having seen that, with the exception of the Potoroos and Kangaroos, the stomach is simple in the Marsupialia, presenting only some addi- tional mucous glands in the Koala and Worn-