NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomt. The Encephalon.) 693 are the peduncles of the cms cerebelli. Through them the cerebellum forms a connection with other parts of the encephalon. The superior layer or peduncle is a bundle of fibres which extends to the corpora quadrigemina, and may be traced beneath them to the optic thalami. These are the processus cerebelli ad testes, but from their being obviously a medium of con- nection between the cerebellum and the cere- brum, they may be better named cerebro-cere- hellar commissures. It is worthy of remark, that these are the only fibres which appear to connect these two segments of the brain. The middle layer is continuous with the restiform bodies, processus cerebelli ad medullam oblon- gata/)!. And the inferior layer is evidently de- rived from the transverse fibres of the pons Varolii, which thus pass from one hemisphere to the other, and constitute a great commissure to the cerebellar hemispheres. These fibres, moreover, connect each hemisphere to the me- socephale (fig. 380, t, r, v). From this triple constitution of the crus cerebelli, it is plain that the cerebellum may exert an influence upon, or be affected by the optic thalami or quadrigeminal bodies, the restiform columns, or the mesocephale. Of the fourth ventricle.—This is a rhomboi- dal cavity, situated at the upper and posterior part of the medulla oblongata, and extending over part of the superior surface of the meso- cephale. It is limited superiorly by the poste- rior margin of the testes, and interiorly by the superior blunt extremity of the posterior pyra- mids. Its two lateral angles correspond to the entrance of the restiform bodies into the crura cerebelli. In fact, it is formed by the diver- gence of the restiform columns in their ascent to the hemispheres of the cerebellum. The median lobe of the cerebellum lies over the fourth ventricle, and conceals it from view. The anterior lobule of the inferior vermiform process, the nodule, projects into it, and closes it below. On either side of this lobule a process of pia mater, with small granulations upon it, is found. These processes are the choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle. A- round these and thence on to the nodule, the Fig. 392. Vertical section of the median lobe of cerebellum, mesocephale, and medulla oblongata, to shew the fourth ventricle. 0, corpus dcntatnm ; f, posterior surface of medulla oblon- gata ; p, pons Varolii ; a, processus cerebelli ad testes; v, cavity of the fourth ventricle. proper membrane of the ventricle is reflected, and thus its cavity is shut out from any com- munication with the subarachnoid cavity. A vertical section in the median plane, or a little to one side of it, displays this arrangement well. (Fig. 392.) Along the floor of the fourth ventricle we find the central or olivary columns of the me- dulla oblongata extending upwards to the optic thalami. A fissure, continuous with the pos- terior median fissure, separates these columns, and terminates above in a canal which pene- trates the mesocephale, to reach the third ven- tricle : iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum or aqueduct of Sylvius. On either side of the fissure certain bundles of white fibres, conti- nuous with the auditory nerves, join it at right angles, crossing over the olivary columns. This fissure, with its white fibres on each side, has been compared to a pen with its barbs, and hence called calamus scriptorius. The fourtii ventricle, although sometimes called the ventricle of the cerebellum, properly belongs to the medulla oblongata. It is present in all the vertebrate classes, and in size bears a direct proportion to that of the medulla itself. Of the hemispheres of the brain.— A mass of fibrous matter, covered on its ex- terior by a convoluted layer of vesicular matter, inflected towards the mesial plane above and below a pair of gangliform bodies, (optic tha- lami and corpora striata,) which it thus encloses in a cavity or ventricle—this, with certain fibres connecting its anterior to its posterior parts, forms a cerebral hemisphere. The hemispheres of opposite sides are applied to one another along the mesial plane, leaving the fissure-like interval called the third ventricle; and they are united by a plane of transverse fibres, the greater part of which is placed above that ven- tricle, but which bends down anteriorly as well as posteriorly, closing the fissure at those situations. Of the convolutions.—That which first at- tracts attention in connection with the cerebral hemispheres, as affording the highest phy- siological as well as anatomical interest, is their convoluted surface. This can only be well displayed by strip- ping off the pia mater. The ap- pearance which is then presented lias been variously described by different writers. It has always seemed to me to resemble the folded surface formed by the mucous mem- brane of the stomach when the mus- cular coat is very much contracted. The ruga? of that membrane be- come enormously developed by the excessive contraction of the mus- cular coat: the mucous membrane not possessing any contractile power is thrown into thin folds to adapt it to the diminished capacity of the stomach. Its folded state indicates a great disproportion between the extent of the mucous surface and that of the muscular tunic. If both