INSTINCT. 28 powers, and its instinctive propensities. Ei- ther directly or indirectly a Mind, and that not the mind of any living animal, must rule, according to general laws, the instinctive ac- tions of all. It is true that there have been, in all ages, some resolute sceptics, who do not assent to the proposition that design can be traced from its effects, or that the observed adaptation of means to ends authorizes us to infer the exist- ence of an intelligent agent; but such a sceptic, if he be consistent, must also refuse his assent to the evidence of the existence of any sentient or intelligent being but himself. " How do I know," says Dr. lleid, " that any man of my acquaintance has understanding? I never saw his understanding. I see only certain effects, which my judgment leads me to conclude to be marks and tokens of it. But, says a sceptical philo- sopher, you can conclude nothing from these, unless past experience has informed you that such tokens are always joined with understand- ing. Alas, it is impossible I can have this ex- perience. The understanding of another man is no immediate object of sight, nor of any other faculty which God has given me ; and unless I can conclude its existence from tokens that are visible, I can have no evidence that there is understanding in any man." In fact, the sceptical reasoner who refuses his assent to the intuitive judgment by which we infer design from its effects, can only be truly and thoroughly consistent if he place no faith in any intuitive truth, or first principle of belief, and therefore disbelieves the suggestions of his own consciousness. " To such a scep- tic," says Dr. Reid, " I have nothing to say; but of the semi-sceptics, I should beg to know, why they believe in the existence of their own impressions and ideas. The true reason I be- lieve to be, because they cannot help it; and the same reason will make them believe many other things."* 2. The evidence of design, which we deduce from the instinctive actions of man himself, has this striking peculiarity, that we are actually conscious of the propensities which excite them, and at the same time know that the purpose or design of these actions is not of our own con- trivance. We may be said actually to feel the adaptation, designed by Nature, not by our- selves, of the constitution of our minds to the laws of external nature and to the wants of our bodily organization. The very same machinery, consisting of efforts of volition, of actions pro- pagated along nerves, and of contractions of muscles, which we put in motion to accom- plish any of those objects which our own intel- ligence and foresight enable us to understand, we here put in motion in obedience to propensi- ties implanted in us by nature, with as little knowledge of the purpose which it is to serve, and in the first instance with as little knowledge of the pleasure it is to procure, as the heart that beats within us has of the nature and uses of the circulation which it supports. In the performance of every one of these actions, we * Essays on Intellectual Powers, p. 621 et seq. may truly say that the intelligent mind of man bows to the superior wisdom of the Author of Nature. The speculations of Darwin on this subject seem intended to weaken the evidence as to the divine existence and attributes drawn from the phenomena of instinct, first, by attempting to explain the instinctive movements of young animals on the principle of irregular move- ments being first produced by uneasy sensa- tions, and then those motions being selected, and voluntarily performed, which are found by experience to appease these sensations or pro- cure pleasure ; and secondly, by referring to the fact formerly stated, that most instinctive pro- pensities are linked to, and, as he expresses it, " under the conduct of sensations and desires." The first of these assertions is quite inconsistent with what has been observed by others (as already remarked) in regard to the commence- ment of the instinctive actions in young ani- mals.* As to the second, it is quite plain that the inference, which is drawn from the observed adaptation of means to ends in the phenomena of instinct, does not require that there shall be no mental antecedent exciting the instinctive pro- pensity, but only that the mental antecedent shall not be an anticipation, grounded on rea- soning, of the effect which the action will pro- duce. Even if the immediate antecedent of every instinctive effort were a pleasing sensa- tion, it would still be a fact, in the constitution of animals, that certain of their sensations, and not others, are naturally followed by certain definite muscular contractions, varying in the different tribes, and each adapted to a determi- nate end, known neither by experience nor by the reason of the animal exhibiting it; and this is the fact which justifies the conclusion in question. This has been already explained, and is so fully illustrated by Mr. Stewart in the answer, contained in his Life of Dr. Reid, to the criticisms of Darwin, that it is unnecessary to dwell upon it. But although it is clearly no objection to the evidence of design and benevolence in the Au- thor of Nature, drawn from the phenomena of instinct, that the instinctive propensities are often linked to and excited by certain pleasur- able sensations, yet it is a strong indication of the superior power by which they are implanted in the different orders of animals, that when they are in full force, and the object to be accomplished by them is important, they have frequently power to supersede and subvert the motives, by which the ordinary actions of the same animals are regulated, and suspend the ordinary laws of their mental constitution, so as to induce an animal to persevere in actions attended with privation and fatigue and positive suffering. " It ought not to be forgotten," says Paley, " how much the instinct often costs the animal that feels it; how much (e. g.) a bird gives up by sitting on her nest,—how repug- nant it is to her organization, her habits, and her pleasures. An animal formed for liberty * See Kirby and Spence, Introd. to Entomology, vol. ii, p. 468.