4:s:i MOTION: 2 F Fig. 227. by a series of somersets, the tail being thrown over the head ; if the head is first made the fixed point at c, as before, the tail will then describe the semicircle a d, which is twice the length of a step, or ad— cd, in the second movement; the tail being fixed at d, the head turns upon it as the centre of a new circle, and takes a position in advance of d, at a dis- tance equal to c d ; in these two actions the animal travels over a space equal to a b. In this manner the head, and tail are ad- vanced alternately. The third mode of pro- gression is by far the most speedy. The Hydra having crawled to the surface of the water, lifts its tail above it to dry in the air, whereby it exerts a repulsive action on the water; this hydrostatic apparatus, acting as a float, is ca- pable of suspending the body at the surface of the water in an inverted position ; in this pos- ture it rows itself along, or is drifted by the winds from point to point without effort. In the Beroe Pileus, the motions are partly by cilia attached to rectangular laminae, which are arranged in rows along the eight costae (It h, Jig. 32, vol. i.) of the eihptically- formed body. According to Dr. Grant, each row contains about forty laminae, whose transverse section presents literally the appear- ance of the floats upon the paddle-wheel of a steam-boat: when the. whole of these laminae strike the water simultaneously, the resultant of their combined action is in the line of the pro- jection of the axis of the animal, which is usually directed vertically. The direction, however, may be changed by the cilia acting partially, by which the inclination of the axis in the direction of the animal is determined. The Physalus has the power of rendering it- self either specifically lighter or heavier than water, by means of the inflation or contraction of its air-bladder; with the assistance of which the animal is enabled either to swim upon the surface, or sink, if alarmed, into the bosom of the ocean. The swimming-bladder of the Physalus is of considerable dimensions, and nearly of an elliptical figure, its longest axis being directed horizontally. The top of this bladder is furnished with a membranous lamina or crest, serving to increase the surface presented to the wind, before which it sails with consi- derable velocity. The Khizophysa Melon, the Agalma Okenii, and the Diphyes Campanu- lit'era, with most of the Acalepha.-, having al- ready been described and figured in the article Acaleph.e, the reader is referred to them for further particulars, but it may be remarked that the progression of the Diphyes is performed upon the principle of the Syringogrades, merely by the reception and expulsion of water by VOL. III. their two truncated sections, which, taking place alternately, gives the animal a mean uniform motion of considerable velocity.* Cirrigrade animalx.— Unlike the entirely soft gelatinous forms which com pose the Pulmograde and Ciliograde Acalephae, the Cirrigrade group have an internal solid skeleton to support their soft and delicate exterior tissues. In the Por- pita this skeleton is composed of a flat, circular, semicartilaginous plate, which lies horizontally • hi the surface of the water; to this plate are appended numerous cirrhi which perform the office of oars in rowing the animal on the surface of the sea: the Porpita is permeated with pores, which being filled with air render it of less density than the water upon which it floats. The Velella Limbosa has a thin perpendicular crest resting obliquely upon the horizontal plate, which being elevated above the water, and presenting a considerable sur- face to the wind, serves as a sail. In the Bat aria cordata,f the crest is furnished with muscular fibres, by which the sail can be ele- vated or lowered at pleasure; but this does not take place without altering at the same time the centre of gravity ; for the position of the body is nearly reversed when the crest is lowered, but it recovers itself on the crest being elevated. Pulmograde animals.—The umbelliform or mushroom-shaped disc of the Rhizostoma being capable of expansion and contraction at the will of the animal, is employed not only to keep the body (which is specifically heavier than water) at its surface, but also to propel it along. When the plane of the disc lies hori- zontally, and its whole margin contracts simul- taneously, the percussion given to the water is perpendicular to the plane, or in a vertical di- rection, and the animal receives an ascending impulse equal to the force of the reaction caused by the displacement of the water. In moving horizontally, the centre of the disc is turned in that direction, and the animal can also accelerate its descent by the assistance of the disc. The contractions of the disc are iso- chronous, and repeated about fifteen times in a minute,! or 15 x 60= 900 times in an hour. The convex surface of the Amelia aurita is directed forwards in progression ; in this posi- tion the whole margin of the disc is called into action, by which the locomotive force is increased, and owing to the figure of the disc the resistance of the water is diminished, and the speed is consequently accelerated. St/ringograde animals.— Under this denomi- nation weshall include the IIolothuria,theSalpa?, and the larva? of those insects who.se progres- sion is effected by the alternate reception and expulsion of water to and from their respiratory organs by an action similar to that of the syringe. Independently of moving upon solids by means of its tubular feet, the Holothuria, according to Muller, is capable of drawing water into its cloacal aperture, and by means of its muscular system, of expelling it from its respiratory * See vol. i. p. 35 et seq. + Vide Art. ACAl.liPH.t, vol. i. p. 40, tie. 12. % See Grunt's Lectures, Lancet, 1833.