NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 161 (triangular) are two triangular folds of peri- toneum which commence at each extremity of the posterior border of the liver and converge towards the termination of the broad ligament. They are broad near the extremities of the or- gan, and permit of a certain degree of motion in the right and left lobes, but become narrow as they approach the middle line. The two layers which compose the right lateral ligament separate as they pass inwards, and partly inclose an oval space (11, 11) of variable size, which is uncovered by peritoneum and in close con- tact with the diaphragm; the remainder of the space is bounded by the division of the layers of the broad and left lateral ligaments. The peritoneum surrounding this space, with the contained cellular tissue, which is large in quan- tity and connects the posterior border of the liver firmly with the right leaflet of the central tendon of the diaphragm, constitutes the co- ronary ligament. The inferior vena cava (14) emerges from the liver at about the middle of this space previously to its passage through the quadrilateral opening in the tendon of the dia- phragm. The left lateral ligament, near to its extremity, advances a little upon the upper sur- face of the left lobe. The round ligament, (jig. 33, 12) (ligamen- tum teres, umbilicale) is a rounded fibrous cord resulting from the obliteration of the um- bilical vein of the foetus. It is contained in the anterior margin of the broad ligament, and may be traced forwards along the linea alba to the umbilicus,and backwards through the notch in the anterior border of the liver and along the longitudinal fissure to the posterior border, where it is connected with the coats of the inferior vena cava. Turning to the under surface of the liver we have to examine certain fissures which divide this aspect of the organ into lobes; the fissures ate five in number; the longitudinal, the fis- sure for the ductus venosus, the transverse, the fissure for the gall-bladder, and the fissure for the vena cava. The longitudinal fissure, (fig. 33, 4, 4) (sul- cus longitudinalis, umbilicalis, horizontalis) extends, as it name implies, longitudinally across the concave suiface of the liver from the notch on the free margin of the organ to its posterior border. At about two-thirds from the anterior border it is met by a short fissure, the transverse, which joins it at right angles. The longitudinal fissure up to this point is deep and is generally covered in by an arch of variable breadth (pons hepatis, fig. 33, 19) which connects the adjoining sides of the right and left lobes ; beyond this point it is shallow and takes the name of fissure for the ductus venosus (5) from containing the fibrous cord into which the ductus venosus is converted after the cessation of fcetal circulation. The longitudinal fissure marks the division of the liver upon its under surface into a right and left lobe, and contains the fibrous cord of the round ligament, which is the degenerated um- bilical vein of the fcetus. Opposite the ex- tremity of the transverse fissure the fibrous cord is often partially dilated and communi- vol. in. Fig. 33. 13 The under or concave surface of the liver. Nos. 1,1, the anterior border ; 2, 2, the posterjor border; 3, the notch upon the anterior border; 4, 4, the longitudinal fissure containing the fibrous cord of the round ligament; 5, the fissure for the ductus venosus ; 6, the transverse fissure ; 7, the point of union of the three fissures, the longitudinal, the transverse, and that for the ductus venosus ; 9, the portal vein in the transverse fissure, the hepatic artery, and the trunk of the ductus commu- nis choledochus ; 11, the cystic duct; 12, the gall- bladder; 13, 13, the inferior vena cava passing through its fissure ; 14, the cord of the ductus venosus, joining the inferior cava as that vessel emerges from the substance of the liver ; 15, part of the oval space on the posterior border of the liver ; 16, the right lobe ; 17, the left lobe ; 18, the lobulus quadratus ; 19, the pons hepatis; 20, the lobus Spigelii ; 21, the lobus caudatus. cates with the portal vein. This is an indica- tion of the natural inosculation subsisting between these two vessels during intra-uterine existence. The transverse fissure (fig. 33, 6) (sulcus transversus, sulcus venae portae) is short and deep and about two inches in length ; it com- mences near the middle of the under surface of the right lobe and passes transversely in- wards to join the longitudinal fissure. It is the hilus of admission to the vessels of the liver, and gives passage to the hepatic artery, portal vein, and hepatic ducts, as well as to the lymphatics and nerves. The transverse fissure is bounded before and behind by the elevated borders of the lobus quadratus and lobus Spigelii. These lobes were named by the older anatomists the portal eminences, and were con- sidered as the pillars which flanked the en- trance to this great portal of the liver. The fissure or rather the fossa for the gall- bladder is the shallow angular depression which lodges the biliary sac. It is broad in ftont and generally marked by a notch upon the anterior border of the liver, and narrows as it passes backwards. It is situated in the right lobe and runs parallel with the longitudinal fissure, while posteriorly it opens into the commence- ment of the transverse fissure. The fissure for the vena cava (fig. 33) is situated in the same longitudinal line with the preceding, but upon the posterior border of the liver. It commences at the under surface of the organ and terminates upon the uppev part of the posterior border at about the middle M