MONOTRKMATA. 385 The medullary fibres of the optic thalami (fig. 182, t) and bigeminal bodies (r, s) form a thin stratum above a third ventricle of unusual capa- city, the relative size of which appeared somewhat larger than was natural from the decomposition of the medullary matter of the soft commis- sure. The principal commissure of the he- mispheres is the anterior one, which is sub- cylindrical, and measured two lines thick verti- cally, and one and a half horizontally. The pos- terior commissure is a narrow strip of medullary matter, which thickens the upper part of the valvula Vieussenii. The ' iter' or canal from the third to the fourth ventricle is proportion- ally wide. The arbor vitae, as displayed by a vertical section of the vermiform process, sends off four principal and some minor medullary branches. The spinal chord in the Ornithorhynchus is long and slender, but fills closely the spinal canal : it is thickest at its commencement and at the lower two-thirds of the cervical region ; it is more slender in the dorsal region, espe- cially near the loins; it is slightly enlarged in the lumbar region, and gradually terminates in a point in the canal of the sacral vertebrae : the cauda equina is very feebly represented. In the Echidna the form and proportions of the spinal chord (Jig. 185) are strikingly dif- ferent: it is here nearly as short and thick, relatively, as in the hedge-hog, and terminates in a point, at d, before it has reached the middle of the dorsal region. Nevertheless, in this short tract the two usual enlargements, giving origins respectively to the nerves of the pec- toral and pelvic extremities, are clearly marked ; theslightly contracted intermediate portion being extremely short: the Cauda equina is remark- able for its length. The nerves escape, as usual, from the intervertebral foramina, and have a longer course in the spinal canal, in proportion as they supply parts more distant from the chord. It is interesting to find the peculiar structure of so important a part as the spinal chord re- peated in two species, which, with the excep- tion of the dermal spines, and their common characters as Mammalia, differ in other respects as widely from one another, and occupy such distant places in their class. Can the short- ness of the solid chord, and the great length of the nerves within the spinal canal, have any physiological relation with the habit, common to both the placental and monotre- matous hedgehogs, of rolling the body into a ball when torpid or asleep, or when the tegu- mentary armour is employed in self-defence?* The olfactory nerves are large in the Orni- thorhynchus (fig. 181,1,1). The external root dant admis, dans les figures relatives a l'encephale de l'ornithorhyiique l'existence du corps calleux; mais, en ctudiant avec soin l'encephale de notre echidne, nous nous avons reconnu que les descrip- tions de M. R. Owen sont plus exactes que celles de Meckel, et que les determinations de 1'anato- miste Anglais doivent etre adoptees."—Voyage de la Favorite, p. 166. * " Cet echidne passait la majeure partie de son temps dans une espece d'engouidissement, blotti, enroule a la maniere dcs herissons."— Voyage de la Favorite, p. 159. VOh. Ill is remarkable for its length and relative size : it arises from the poste- rior surface of the cere- bral hemisphere imme- diately behind the bige- minal body; bends round the cms cerebri to the inferior surface; and is continued forward to join the internal root which rises from the base of the anterior lobes of the brain. In the Echidna the olfactory nerves may be described as enormous. The external root (fig. 183, 1 a) arises from nearly the whole anterior part of the natiform pro- tuberance, which extends its origin, as in the Or- nithorhynchus,to the pos- terior part of the hemi- sphere. The internal root (183, 1 b) is also very large : the lateral ventri- cle is prolonged forwards into the olfactory nerve, which would appear like a continuation of the en- tire hemisphere, were it not that it is overlapped by the anterior convo- lution. The extent and com- plications of the olfactory cavity are proportionate in the two Monotremes to the size of their respec- tive nerves. The optic nerve (fig. 181, 183, 2) is small in both Monotremes, in ac- cordance with the dimi- nutive size of the eye : the two nerves are joined by a transversely oblong chiasma. The eye is protected, in the Ornithorhynchus, by a cartilaginous plate continued from the upper part of the orbit, which Meckel compares with the bony palpebral plates Brain and spinal chord, in the Crocodile. Both Echidna, Half natural Monotremes have a well size. (Original.) developed membrananic- titans : there are also an upper and a lower eyelid, each of which has its proper apertor muscle. In the Ornithorhynchus the sclerotic is carti- laginous, the cornea flabby, the retina very thick : there is no trace of pecten or marsu- pium : the lens is very small, two lines in vertical and transverse diameter, one line in antero-posterior diameter; the anterior surface 2 c