36 IRRITABILITY. The same confusion of ideas on the subject of the activity of the animal and the irritability of the muscular fibre prevails, I believe, amongst our own physiologists; at least, in conversation with two, who may rank amongst the first, I found that they had uniformly con- sidered the respiration and the irritability to be directly, instead of inversely, proportionate to each other. That singular and interesting property of the lower orders of animals termed tenacity of life is, on the other hand, distinctly associated with a high degree of irritability of the mus- cular fibre. The property may be defined as consisting of the power of sustaining the pri- vation of respiration, the privation of food, various mutilations, divisions, &c. It is greater as we descend in the zoological scale. As activity depends upon the presence and condi- tion of the spino-cerebral masses acted upon by arterial blood, tenacity of life depends upon the diminution or absence of these masses and of this,highly arterialized blood, being greatest of all in those animals which approach a mere muscular structure. Almost the sole vital pro- perty then remaining is the irritability; and this property does not immediately suffer from division. It is possible to reduce some of the reptile tribes to a state approaching that of animals still lower in the scale, by removing, by very slow degrees, successive portions of the ner- vous masses. This is most readily done in animals in which the respiration is already low, and the irritability high, as in the fcetus, in the very young animal, in the reptile, &c, as in the experiments of Legallois,* M. Serres,f myself,^ &c. There is, even in animals most tenacious of life, one kind of mutilation—one kind of in- jury not well borne. As the blood is- in its lowest condition of stimulus, it cannot be withdrawn with impunity; even frogs soon perish if their blood be allowed to flow. As the irritability, on the other hand, is high, certain stimuli, as galvanism, slightly elevated tem- peratures, &c. are speedily fatal. The batra- chia are promptly destroyed by immersion in water of a temperature of 108° of Fahr., and some fish and Crustacea perish in great num- bers under the influence of a thunder-storm. It is a singular fact, that the fish alone, whose food is found amongst animals of a high irrita- bility, should possess an electrical organ for the destruction of its prey. The application of stimulus has uniformly a tendency to reduce the degree of irritability. The exclusion of all stimuli allows its augmen- tation. During active exercise the irritability is diminished ; during sleep it is proportionally augmented. We are nowled to take another view of this sub- ject of irritability. What is its source ? How is it renewed when ithasbeen exhausted ? These ques- tionslead us to take up another of greatinterest, to * Experiences sur le Principe de la Vie. t Anatomie Comparee duCerveau, tome ii. p. 224. J Essay on the Circulation, chap. iii. § 1. physicians especially, viz. what is the condition of the muscular irritability in those cases in which the influence of the cerebrum, or of the spinal marrow, or both, isremoved respectively? We cannot discuss this subject more clearly than by adducing the following observations, read before the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Society and published in its Transactions, in the year 1839. The utmost discrepancy of opinion prevails amongst physiologists and medical writers upon this subject. Prochaska, Nysten, and Legallois state, that the irritability of the muscular fibre remains in paralytic limbs; whilst Professor Muller and Dr. Sticker assert the contrary. No attempt has been made to reconcile a contra- diction not very honourable to our science. . To explain this discrepancy of opinion is one of the objects of this communication. The authors to whom I have referred, misled by the generic term and idea of paralysis, have not sufficiently distinguished between its dif- ferent species. Yet it will be found, as we pro- ceed, that this distinction is of the utmost im- portance in the explanation of the phenomena. In fact, cerebral paralysis, or that which re- moves the influence of the brain, and spinal paralysis, or that which removes the influence of the spinal marrow, are in totally opposite conditions in reference to the irritability of the muscular fibre in the limbs severally affected ; facts equally obvious in experiments and in clinical observations. I must make quota- tions of some length, for these are necessary to show the present state of the science. 1 shall then proceed to the detail of my own investi- gations. The first distinct notice of this subject which I think it necessary to adduce, is contained in the following extract from the Opera Minora of Prochaska:* " Vis nervosa quae in nervis a commercio cum cerebro separatis superest, non una alterave musculi contractione, quam irri— tati cient, exhauritur, sed millenis plane con- vulsionibus excitandis par est; quod expertus sum in rana, cui medullam spinalem in dorso abscidi. Supervixit huic vulneri aliquot die- bus; interim irritando medulla? spinalis partem earn, qua; erat infra sectionem, convulsiones in artubus inferioribus excitavi toto tempore, quo supervixit, plane mnumeras; neque extremi- tates inferiores prius mortuas sunt, quam tota rana; Dein quod vis nervosa in nervis diu persistere possit citra cerebri auxilium probare videntur musculi paralytici, in quorum nervis ob compressionem aliquam praternaturalem to- tum commercium cum cerebro sublatum est, nihilominus tamen a stimulo electric* scintillas longo jam tempore paralytici musculi convel- luntur." More detailed remarks were made by Nysten, and these, from being founded upon very dis- tinct post-mostem experiments on the human subject, have excited more attention. This ce- lebrated physiologist observes, " Chez deux apoplectiques qui avaient succombe au bout de * Ed. 1800, p. 84.