MOTION. 458 second only backwards, and the third neither backwards nor forwards. The length of the legs, measured from the hip-joint to the ground when standing erect, preponderates slightly over that of the body when taken from the distance of the crown of the head to the axis of the hip joint, conse- quently the centre of gravity is raised above the plane of position rather higher than the semi- distance from the head to the ground when the entire sole of the foot is in contact with the earth.* In consequence of the lengths of the femur and tibia being nearly equal, and of the zigzag direction which the limbs take during flexion, and because the angle of the greatest flexion of the knee-joint is nearly equal to the sum of the angles of the hip and ankle, it results that in the simultaneous flexion of these three joints, (provided the angle of in- clination of the foot to the ground continues 30°,) the trunk preserves its erect position as when standing, and therefore ascends and de- scends (by the flexion and extension of the legs) in the same vertical line. The greatest amount of elongation and contraction of the leg result- ing from the greatest extension and flexion of the hip, knee, and ankle-joints, may be easily ascertained by measuring with a line from the hip-joint to the head of the astragalus during such flexion and extension, and marking the difference in the length of the line in the two states. By this method the length is estimated by W eber as follows : m.m. In the greatest state of extension.. 924.26 In the greatest state of flexion.... 404.74 The actual lengths of the several portions of the leg are m.m. Head of the femur to the condyles.. 380.0 From the condyles to the convex articular surface of astragalus . . 420.0 Axis of articulation of the astragalus to centre of foot 136.0 During the greatest extension the first three of these points of the leg formed an angle of 148° 8', and during the greatest flexion an angle of 40°. The second, third, and fourth points form in the greatest extension an angle of 157° 4, and in greatest flexion 94° 6'. The proportion between the greatest and smallest length which the leg can assume varies but little. -Figs. 247 and 248 from Weber show the greatest amount of extension and flexion which the leg can effect; the corresponding difference in length is as 14 to 5, but in walking and run- ning the flexion is less, and the difference of length as 11 to 9. In standing, the weight of the body is trans- mitted from the pelvis to the heads of the femurs ; the oblique directions of the latter upwards and inwards keep in equilibrio the vertical forces downwards and outwards pro- duced by the weight of the body on the wedge- like sacrum. The femurs transmit the weight impressed * Sec positions of the centre of gravity, sect. i. p. 409. Fig. 247. Fig. 248. on them by the trunk, together with their own weight and that of the soft parts to the tibiae. The shafts of the latter are straight, and by their prismatic form their solid contents are removed further from the axis of the bone, which enables them to support a greater weight with less ex- penditure of materials. The fibula adds likewise to the strength of the tibia, both vertically and laterally ; the latter transmits, in its turn, its own weight and that of its soft parts to the astragalus. The astragalus transmits the pressure made upon it partly to the calcaneum and partly to the scaphoides; the calcaneum partly to the ground and partly to the cuboides; the sca- phoides transfers the force through the cunei- form bones ; the toes to the ground, where the base of support terminates, supposing the entire foot to rest on it. In the mechanism of the foot we discover an elastic arch, upon which the shock of the body is received, and transmitted obliquely to the ground. This admi- rable structure prevents the jar which the body would otherwise sustain at each step by the re- action of the ground in walking, running, leap- ing, or falling; but an exact investigation of the mechanism of the foot would occupy more space than we have assigned to this subject. The areas of the soles of the two feet and the space lying between them is the whole base of support in standing on both legs; but when standing upon one only, this is diminished, not only by the area of one foot, but also of the space lying between them. In the latter case, the base is so narrow that the act is not easily ac- complished, but tire difficulty of keeping the trunk in equilibrium is vastly increased when the base of support is reduced to the area of the great toe, as is accomplished by opera dancers; or to the area of one-fifth or two-fifths of a square inch as in skating, or to one still less, as in rope dancing, wherein the base of support oscillates laterally. In this latter case, the diffi- culty is increased by the necessity of keeping the trunk in equilibrio, but the centre of gravity is retained in the plane of the rope by fixing the eye on some distant point in it. The posi- tion which the two feet ought to take, when equally advanced and equally inclined, so that