MAMMARY GLANDS. 248 We must next direct our attention to the internal structure of the breast, first as regards the protective arrangements. The fascia enveloping the breast, like the tunica albuginea of the testicle, sends in pro- cesses to support and protect the secreting membrane of the gland and suspend it in its situation. These processes are all denomi- nated by Sir Astley the ligamenta suspensoria, (jig- 73). " The ends of these ligaments are spread out and incorporated with the posterior surface of the skin, and give it whiteness and firmness." The secerning portion of the gland con- sists of the minute cells which were referred to at the commencement of this article, and we learn from Sir A. Cooper that " their size in full lactation is that of a hole pricked in paper by the point of a very fine pin; so that the cellules, when distended with quicksilver or milk, are just visible to the naked eye. (Fig. 74.) They are rather oval than round, Fig. 74. Shews the origin of the ducts from the milk cells, (injected with quicksilver and magnified four times.) being slightly elongated where the bunch of the lactiferous tubes springs from them ; but they appear more rounded to quicksilver, and when distended with milk than when filled with wax." These minute cells or cellules are bound up together so compactly as to form little bodies or " glandules" varying in size from a pin's head to that of a small tare. When separated from the rest of the gland but attached to the mammary duct, which originates in separate branches from its cellules, it presents a race- mose appearance. From the cellules the milk-tubes originate in a radiate form by small and numerous branches. They increase in size by repeated unions, and terminate by five or six branches in dilatations— the " reservoirs" of Sir Astley. " These recep- tacles are of a conical form (see fig. 75) like the mammillary tubes, and they begin from the extremities of the larger branches of the milk-tubes and terminate in the straight ducts of the nipple." In most other classes of the Mammalia these reservoirs are much larger than in man, where they hardly deserve the title, and in the cow they are so capacious as to be capable of con- taining at least a quart. The different ducts of these reservoirs take a straight course, diminishing in size, through the nipple to its extremity, where they terminate in a cribriform manner, with very contracted orifices, varying in size from those of a bristle to a common pin. Their number is about twenty. Arteries.—The mamma receives its sup- ply of blood from branches of the internal mammary, axillary, and intercostal arteries. Sir Astley divides them into anterior and pos- terior, the former passing from the axillary artery and the latter from the internal mam- Fig. 75. I . ■ .■ - . . -- - A view of the preparation of six milk tubes, injected from the nipple. a, a, a, the straight or mammillary tuhes, proceeding from the apex of the nipple. b, b, b, the reservoirs or dilatations of the ducts. c, c, c, the brandies of the mammary ducts. d, d, d, d, their glandules.