iVl Ul\ UIIX. KlVi Ai A. transparent; the membranous falx is less deep than the osseous one of the Ornithorhynchus. T found no bony plate between the hemi- spheres in the Echidna. The arachnoid is transparent, but relatively strong. The cere- bellum is traversed by several narrow trans- verse anfractuosities, disposed as in Jig. 182. The vermiform or median lobe, as in the Ornithorhynchus, is larger in proportion to the lateral lobes than in the Marsupialia, and the limits between them are much less dis- tinctly denned. The base of the brain in the Echidna (Jig. 183) is remarkable for the deep and wide excavations at the under part of the anterior Fig. 183. Base of brain of Echidna. (Original.) lobes, forming the base of the enormous olfactory nerves. The natiform protuberances are unusually large. The medulla oblongata is broad and flat, but contracted anteriorly to an angle; the pyramidal bodies (a) long and narrow; the olivary bodies (b) broad, but flat. The pons Varolii (c) presents, as in the Orni- thorhynchus, a low development proportion- ally to the size of the brain: it is not raised beyond the level of the under surface of the medulla oblongata: it is of a triangular form with the obtuse apex turned forwards: the median longitudinal groove formed by the ba- silar artery is well marked: the trapezoid bodies are relatively narrower than in the Ornitho- rhynchus. The pituitary gland (p, Jig. 183) is one line and a half in length and one line in breadth : its under surface adheres closely to the dura mater of the sella turcica. The corpus mam- millare is single, broad, and but little ele- vated. The internal, superior, and posterior walls of the lateral ventricle are from one line to two lines in thickness; the outer wall is between two and three lines; when the roof of the ventricle is removed, as in Jig. 184, two elongated convex bodies are exposed, as in the marsupial brain: the posterior and largest (A) is the hip- pocampus major: the Fig. 184. anterior body (s) is the corpus striatum. The whole internal wall of one ventricle is quite disunited from that of the opposite hemisphere.* The contracted an- terior parts of the hip- pocampi are connected together by the short transverse commissure above mentioned, which is the sole re- presentative of the cor- pus callosum and for- nix. The septum luci- Right lateral ventricle laid dum and fifth ventricle °P&h Echidna. are entirely absent. (Ongmal.) The pia mater, which accompanies the ven- tricular artery into the floor of the ventricle, at the base of the hippocampus, spreads over the optic thalami, and sends upwards a smooth fold of membrane, one line and a half broad, between the hippocampus and the corpus striatum. The free margin of this fold is slightly thickened by the choroid artery. It is necessary to remove the hippocampus and posterior part of the hemisphere, in order to bring into view the optic thalami and bige- minal bodies. The optic thalami (fig. 182, 1) and nates appear as one convex body slightly contracted laterally, and divided from each other by a sig- moid linear fissure: the testes are only half the breadth of the nates, and the median longitudinal line of division, which is very faint in the larger bodies, is not visible in the smaller and pos- terior tubercle. The Echidna corresponds in this characteristic modification with the Orni- thorhynchus.f * The internal structure of the hemispheres of the Echidna's brain is not described in the' Voyage de la Favorite.' t MM. Eydoux and Laurent have thrown into the following tabular form the published results of the dissections of the brains of the Impla- cental Mammalia as compared with Placental Mammals and Birds. MONODELPHF.S. DlDELPHES. Ornithodelphes. OlSEAUX. Corps calleux .... Pont de Varole . . Lobes optiques . . . existe. existe. quadrijumeaux et superieures. manque, existe. quadrijumeaux et superieures. manque, existe. bijumeaux et superieures. manque, manque, bijumeaux et lateraux. They add : " En indiquant ce r6sultat des ob- joint les observations de Meckel en les rectifiant, servations de M. R. Owen, aux-quelles nous avons nous devons fairc remarquer que Meckel a cepen-