LIFE. 157 state of torpidity by cold, some vital action usually continues; and such cases cannot therefore be adduced under the present head. But instances are by no means rare in which the whole body has been frozen, and vital action has of course been completely suspended, yet without the destruction of the power of renew- ing them under more favourable circumstances. Lister first noticed that he had found caterpil- lars so frozen, that when dropped into a glass they chinked like stones, but nevertheless re- vived ; and this statement has been confirmed by Bonnet and others. The Papilio Brassica lias been produced from a larva which had been exposed to a frost of 0° Fahr., and which had become a lump of ice. Fishes are occasion- ally found imbedded in the ice of arctic seas; and some of these revive when thawed. This tenacity of life appears greater, however, in the species which are confined to shallow lakes or ponds, and which have not the power, there- fore, of escaping from the effects of cold. This is perhaps the proper place to mention those undoubted cases in which insects have been apparently killed by immersion in water or spirit, continued for a long period, and have yet revived on exposure to the air and sun. Without multiplying facts, then, it may be safely affirmed that many organised beings may retain their vital properties, in some in- stances to an unlimited duration, while all vital activity or life is completely suspended, through the absence of the stimuli necessary to main- tain it; and that this preservation of vitality bears so close a relation to the resistance offered, by the structure and composition of the sub- stance possessing it, to the influence of disin- tegrating agents, that it may reasonably be considered as a result of the maintenance of its normal constitution. The physiologist is not yet in a condition to explain those diffe- rences in structure and composition which enable some organisms to offer a much greater re- sistance to such injurious influences than others ; but he considers himself entitled to assume that such exist in all, since there are many instances in which he is able to detect them. Suspension of vital action under other cir- cumstances.—We have next to consider those cases in which vitality is rendered for a time dormant, by causes originating in the system itself, rather than by the withdrawal of external stimuli. Under this head we may place all those phenomena to which the name of hyber- nation is usually given; but which, as will presently be seen, cannot be appropriately de- signated by that term. The greater number of plants indigenous to temperate climates un- dergo an annual series of phases, in which their vegetative processes exhibit every grada- tion from a torpor apparently complete to the most surprising activity. In many, indeed, this series of phases constitutes the whole of life; the individual ceasing to exist as soon as it has been once performed, and a new genera- tion called into existence. In many more, a total suspension of activity appears to take place, as may be observed in plants whose stems die annually, whilst the roots retain their vitality. This condition exactly resembles that of certain animals which pass the winter in a state of profound torpor. In those, however, whose stems are woody and persistent, vital action does not seem to be completely checked even by a frosty atmosphere ; as late experi- ments show that a movement of sap takes place, though to a trifling degree, in the depth of winter. And, lastly, in evergreen plants, these changes of condition are less complete ; the activity of the vegetative processes being diminished by the partial withdrawal of their appropriate stimuli, but not being altogether suspended. Now although it is unquestion- able that this series of changes is greatly influ- enced by the successive alterations in the ex- ternal conditions of the beings, which the revolution of the seasons induces, it does not admit of doubt that it is originally dependent on the peculiar constitution of the organism, by which a periodical diminution of its activity is occasioned. For nothing will prevent a plant from shedding its leaves nearly at its usual time; and although by artificial heat, or by removal to a warmer climate, a new crop may be brought out within a short interval, this can only be effected by keeping in a state of activity the processes which ought to be at rest, so that an injurious influence is exerted on the general system like that which results from artificially- prolonged watchfulness in animals. When a plant is reduced, by the periodical decay of its stem and leaves, to the state of a bulb or root, it seems almost to revert to that remarkable condition already described as peculiar to seeds; the vitality of the structure being capable of remaining dormant for a considerable time, and of being then aroused into full activity by the appropriate stimuli. We are not aware of any authentic facts which fix the limit to the dura- tion of this condition. Instances have been related of the growth of bulbs unrolled from the envelopes of Egyptian mummies; but there is reason to believe that deception has been practised on this point upon the too-ready credulity of travellers. However, there can be no doubt that, under favourable circumstances, bulbs and roots may be preserved for many years; the conditions necessary for thisobject being such as neither excite the vitality of the structure to action, nor occasion the disintegration of the latter and the consequent loss of its properties. The animal kingdom presents us with condi- tions very analogous to those just alluded to. In a large proportion of those inhabiting tem- perate climates, there is a periodic diminution of vital activity during the colder part of the year; but this, in the higher tribes at least, scarcely amounts to an absolute suspension, since the circulation, and the functions of nu- trition and secretion which depend on it, are carried on, though feebly. (See Hybernation.) It is easy to understand why this must be the case. The softer portions of the animal frame, which are most concerned in the processes of organic life, are not periodically cast off and renewed like the corresponding parts of plants ; and, if their integrity were not maintained by the circulation of nutritious fluid during their