MARSUPIALIA. 325 dent half a line below the origin of the pedicle. (See the foetus in Jig. 141.) The small intestine above the pedicle was disposed in five folds. The first from the stomach or duodenum curved over the vitel- line vein, and the remaining folds were dis- posed around both the vitelline vessels. From the coecum, which was given off from the re- turning portion of the umbilical loop of the intestine, the large intestine passed backwards to the spine, and was then bent, at a right angle, to go straight down to the anus. The stomach did not present any appearance of the sacculated structure so remarkable in the adult, but had the simple form of a carnivorous stomach. The liver consisted of two equal and symme- trically disposed lobes. The vena porlaa was formed by the union of the vitelline with the mesenteric, and doubtless the other usual veins, which were, however, too small to be distinctly perceived. The diaphragm was perfectly formed. The vena cava inferior was joined, above the diaphragm, by the left superior cava, just at its termination in a large right auricle. The ventricles of the heart were completely joined together, and bore the same proportions to each other as in the adult,—a perfection of structure which is not observed in the embryos of ordi- nary Mammalia at a corresponding period of development. The pulmonary artery and aorta were of nearly the same proportionate size as in the adult: the divisions of the pul- monary artery to the lungs were at least double the size of those observable in the embryo of a sheep three inches in length. The ductus arteriosus, on the contrary, was remarkably small. The aorta, prior to forming the de- scending trunk, dilated into a bulb, from which the carotid and subclavian arteries were given off. The lungs were of equal size with the heart, being about a line in length, and nearly the same in breadth: they were of a spongy tex- ture and of a red colour, like the veins, from the quantity of blood they contained. This precocious development of the thoracic viscera is an evident provision for the early or prema- ture exercise of the lungs as respiratory organs in this animal: and on account of the simple condition of the alimentary canal, the chest at this period exceeds the abdomen in size. The kidneys had the same form and situ- ation as in the adult. The supra-renal glands were half the size of the kidneys. The testes were situated below the kidneys, and were one-half larger than those glands, the superiority of size depending on their large epididymis, with the adherent remains of the Wolffian body. They continue within the ab- domen for six weeks after uterine birth. At a later period of uterine development, when the foetus, measured in a straight line from the mouth to the root of the tail, is ten lines in length, the urachus expands into a small allantois (d, Jig. 141), of a flattened pyriform figure,and finely wrinkled external surface. This bag insinuates itself between the amnios and chorion, carrying along with it two small hypo- gastric arteries and an umbilical vein, but not establishing by their means an organized and vascular surface of the chorion by which a placental attachment is formed between the ovum and the womb. The allantois depends freely from the end of the umbilical chord, and has no connexion at any part of its cir- cumference with the adjoining membrane. Its office is apparently that of a receptacle of urine. The vitellicle or umbilical sac presented the same large proportionate size and vascular structure as in the first described foetus. The chorion which enveloped this foetus and its appended sacs was adapted to the cavity of the uterus by being disposed in innumerable folds and wrinkles. It did not adhere at any part of its surface to the uterus, but presented a modification not present in the chorion of the earlier foetus, in being partially organized by the extension of the omphalo-mesenteric vessels upon it from the adherent vitellicle. The di- gits of the hind legs were distinctly formed in this embryo. The new-born foetus of the great Kangaroo does not exceed, as we have already shown, one inch in length; its external characters have been already described. Dr. Barton has given the following account of the Opossum (Didel- phys Virginiana) at an analogous period. " I have been so fortunate as to ascertain the size and weight of several embryos imme- diately after their exclusion from the uterus. One of them weighed only one grain! The weight of each of the six other young ones was but little more than this. The young opossums, unformed and perfectly sightless as they are at this period, find their way to the teats by the power of an invariable, a deter- minate instinct" (qu.?). " In this new domi- cilium they continue for about fifty days, that is, until they attain the size of a common mouse (Mus musculus), when they begin to leave the teats occasionally, but return to them again until they are nearly the size of rats. " At the end of about fifty or fifty-two days from its first reception in the pouch the eyes of the young begin to open. " I have found that the same embryon has increased in weight 531 grains in sixty days, that is, at a rate of almost 9 grains daily. The animal attains to nearly its full growth in about five months ; but never, 1 believe, (in our lati- tudes I mean,) procreates the first year of its existence. " On the 21st of May, upon looking into the box which contained the female Opossum, I found that she had just excluded from her uterus seven embryons; the smallest of which scarcely weighed one grain, another barely two grains, and the remaining five (taken together) exactly seven grains."* In the Kangaroo about ten months elapse before the mammary foetus quits the pouch : it has, prior to this period, quitted the nipple, * Barton, in Annals of Philosophy, vi. (1823), p. 349. " Facts, Observations, and Conjectures relative to the Generation of the Opossum,"