160 NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. De gencratione animalium, Lond. 1651. Glisson, De viti naturali, Lond. 1672. Stahl, De vita, Halle, 1701. De Gorter, De actione viventium particulari, Amstel. 1748. Hoffman, Dissertatio vitae animalis, Halle, 1731. Bonnet, sur les corps organises, Amst. 1776. Brown, Elenienta medi- cinas, Edinb. 1780. Priestley, On matter and spirit, Birm. 1782. Hunter, On the animal economy, Lond. 1786. Darwin, Zoonomia, Lond. 1794. Cu- vier, Lecons d' anat. comp., Paris, 1799. Bichat, Sur la vie et la mort, Paris, 1802. Oken, Ahriss des Systems der Biologie, Goett. 1805. Wolff, Ideen iiber Lebenskraft, Altona, 1806. Abernethy, On Hunter's Theory of Life, Lond. 1814. Law- rence, Lectures on physiology, &c. Lond. 1816. Philip, On the laws of the vital functions, Lond. 1817. Pring, On the laws of organic life, Lond. 1819. Barclay, On life and organisation, Edinb. 1822. Good, Study of medicine, Lond. 1825. Prickard, On the vital principle, Lond. 1829. Bell, Bridgwater treatise, Lond. 1833. Prout, Bridg- water treatise, Lond. 1834. Roberton, On life and mind, Lond. 1836. Clark, Report on physiology to Brit. Assoc. 1834. Rett, Von der Lebenskraft, in Archiv. I. B. ( W. B. Carpenter.) LIVER, Normal Anatomy.—Syn. Gr. mraj; Lat. jecur, hepar; Fran, foie; Germ. Leber; Ital. fegato. The liver is a conglo- merate gland of large size, appended to the alimentary canal, and performing the double office of separating certain impurities from the venous blood of the chylopoietic viscera, pre- viously to its return into the general circulation, and of secreting a fluid necessary to digestion— the bile. It is situated in the abdomen, in the right hypochondriac region, and extends across the epigastrium into the left hypochondriac region. Superiorly it ascends to a level with the sixth or seventh rib, diminishing the cavity of the chest on the right side, and inferiorly it ap- proaches by its anterior border, the lower mar- gin of the thorax. The general form of the liver is flattened, being broad and thick towards the right ex- tremity, and narrow and thin towards the left. Glisson compared its shape to the segment of an ovoid cut obliquely in the direction of its length, and Dr. Alexander Monro to the hoof of an ox rounded superiorly. Its superior surface is convex ; the inferior irregularly con- cave ; the posterior border is thick and rounded, and the anterior thin and sharp. Its position in the abdomen is oblique, the convex surface, in the erect posture of the body, being directed upwards and forwards, and the concave downwards and backwards. The broad border is posterior and superior, and the thin margin anterior and inferior. If the trunk be inclined forwards the free edge of the liver may be felt, extending below the margin of the thorax. It is in relation by its convex surface, su- periorly with the diaphragm, which separates it from the under surface of the right lung and from the heart; anteriorly with the diaphragm and transversalis muscle, and with the sheath of the rectus and linea alba at the epigastrium ; and on the right side with the diaphragm and transversalis muscle, which are interposed be- tween it and the seven or eight lower ribs. Its inferior or concave surface is in relation with the anterior aspect of the stomach, the ascending portion of the duodenum, the trans- verse colon, the right supra-renal capsule, and the right kidney, and sometimes by its left extremity with the upper end of the spleen. The posterior border rests against the dia- phragm, which intervenes between it and the vertebral column, and is in contact with the inferior vena cava, oesophagus, and right pneu- mogastric nerve. The anterior border is free and in relation with the transversalis muscle, which separates it from the cartilages of the lower ribs, with the round ligament at the notch, and with the sheath of the rectus and linea alba at the epigastrium. The liver is retained in its place by duplica- tures of peritoneum which pass between its convex surface and posterior border and the diaphragm, and by a fibrous cord which crosses from the linea alba to the inferior vena cava. These are the ligaments of the liver; they are five in number, the broad, the two lateral, the coronary, and the round ligament. Fig. 32. The upper or convex surface of the liver. No 1, the right lobe ; 2, the left lobe; 3, a part of the lobus Spigelii seen projecting beyond its posterior border; 4, 4, the anterior or narrow border ; 5, the notch in the anterior border that gives passage to the round ligament 12 ; 6, 6, the posterior or rounded bord r; 7, the broad liga- ment; 8, the left lateral ligament; 9, the right lateral ligament; 10, the point of separation of the layers of the right lateral ligament to in- close the oval space, 11,11; 12, the round liga- ment; 13, the fundus of the gall-bladder pro- jecting beyond the anterior margin of the liver. The notch upon the anterior margin corresponding with the gall-bladder is also seen ; 14, the inferior vena cava emerging from the liver in the centre of the oval space of the coronary ligament. The small vessels seen ramifying upon the surface of the orgnn are superficial lymphatics. The broad ligament, (fig. 32, 7) (falci- form, longitudinal, 1. latum, 1. suspensorium hepatis) is an antero-posterior duplicature of peritoneum which extends from the notch on the anterior margin of the liver to the superior part of its posterior border. It is broad in front where it incloses the round ligament, and becomes narrow as it passes backwards; hence its synonym, falciform. It serves to connect the convex surface of the liver with the linea alba and diaphragm. The lateral ligaments (fig. 32, 8, 9)