NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. 174 the gall-bladder, which are large and form a remarkable plexus, enter the glands in the right border of the lesser omentum ; and those from the left lobe converge to the lymphatic glands situated along the lesser curve of the stomach. The nerves which supply the liver are de- rived from the systems both of animal and organic life; the former are filaments of the right phrenic and two pneumo-gastric nerves, and the latter of the solar plexus. The branches from the right phrenic nerve descend by the side of the inferior cava, to unite with the hepatic plexus in the right border of the lesser omen- tum. Swan describes a small ganglion, to which filaments converge from the right semi- lunar ganglion and right phrenic nerve, as being the medium of communication between the phrenic nerve and the hepatic plexus. The branches of the pneumo-gastric nerves pass between the two layers of the lesser omentum to its right border, and pursuing the course of the hepatic artery are distributed with the hepatic plexus to the gall-bladder and along the portal canals. The hepatic plexus proceeds from the solar plexus and surrounds the hepatic artery to the transverse fissure; its filaments then accompany the brandies of that vessel to their ultimate termination, and some few are observed to ramify upon the portal vein. Progressive development of the liver in the animal series.—The liver in its simplest condi- tion is a mere inflection of the mucous lining of the alimentary canal, forming a small ccecal recess or follicle. The capillary vessels rami- fying upon the parietes of this follicle pour their secretion upon its internal surface, and it is thence conveyed to the alimentary canal to be mingled with the ingesta. In this its most rudimentary form the liver would appear to be present in the Laginella, a small cilio-brachiate polypus described and figured by Dr. Arthur Farre.* Upon the stomach of the Laginella are seen several minute cceca which open into its cavity; they are usually empty when the animal has been for some time without food, but become filled with a brownish fluid after a meal. The next most elementary form of the hepatic ccocum is seen in the single lengthened follicle discovered by Owen in the ascaris ha- licoris. This follicle opens into the alimentary canal at about one-third from its oral extremity. Among the Annelida, as in the medicinal leech (Jig. 69, vol. i.) the liver is represented by numerous simple ccecal pouches appended to each side of the digestive canal. The next step in the complication of the organ is ob- served in the lengthened filiform tubuli which are connected with the sides of the canal in the Aphrodita. These are narrow and constricted at their commencement, dilating gradually as they proceed farther from the intestine, and terminating by a small oval sac. In other species of the same genus and in the Areni- cola (Jig. 70, vol. i.) they display a tendency to ramify, by developing small ccecal pouches * Philosophical Transactions, 1837. from their sides. In these terminal sacculi Pallas discovered a " bitter fluid, of an olive- brown or greenish-black colour," which he conceived to be the juices of marine plants which had gained admission into the tubuli through their openings of communication with the intestine, but which, it is more than pro- bable, was the proper biliary secretion of the tubes themselves. In the class Inseeta the hepatic cceca vary in progressive development from the simple vesicular dilatations observed upon the digestive canal of the Lampyrus splendidula, or the simple ccecal tubulus of the carnivorous Cicindela, to the numerous ccecal follicles of the Dytiscus, or to the more length- ened tubuli of the Blatta orientalis. Through- out the whole of the class the character of the liver is tubular, the development and extent of the tubuli depending upon peculiarities in the food or habits of the animals. In Arachnida, the ccecal follicles are short, and terminate at their extremities in a cluster of numerous rounded vesicles, which give to the organ a lobulated appearance. They are seen in the Scorpion, in Jig. 83, r, c, page 204, vol. i. In the class Crustacea, the hepatic organ assumes a higher and more complicated character; the simple ccecal follicle of Inseeta becomes branched and ramified, of which we have a good example in the Ar«ulus foliaceus, deli- neated by Miiller. In the Astacus fluviatilis (Jig. 214, page 483, vol. i.) the hepatic fol- licle is more branched than in the Argulus; and in the Pagurus striatus (Jig. 215, page 484, vol. i.) the liver is composed of an extraordinary assemblage of ramified follicles. In the hepatic organ of the Squilla mantis we perceive a remark- able transition from the simple branched and ra- mified follicle of the lowerCrustacea to the higher forms of the organ in the molluscous classes. Upon the exterior it is lobulated, and each lobe is composed of a congeries of minor lo- bules which appear like granulations upon its surface. Examined in its interior it presents a primary dilated sac of considerable size, from which branch off" a number of secondary sacs of smaller dimensions, and these latter are studded over every part of their surface with minute ccecal follicles of a rounded form. In the subregnum Mollusca the liver is of large size, and approaches in external form to the solid and lobulated organ of vertebrata. In internal conformation we may still trace among the lower classes a close analogy with the rami- fied tubuli of Aiticulata. Thus in the class Gasteropoda the gland is composed of ccecal pouches, which divide and subdivide into smaller and smaller follicles and terminate in small dilated sacs. They may be compared in their disposition to the stem, branches, twigs, and fruit of a cluster of grapes. A liver of this kind is seen in the Helix pomatia. In the Murex triton the follicular structure of the organ would appear to be lost. The ex- ternal surface presents a lobulated form, but the interior is composed of a delicate spongy tissue, consisting of larger and smaller cells, which may all be inflated from the excretory duct. This seeming difference in the structure