MOTION. •J 54 difference arises chiefly from the great length of the tibia, which is nearly equal to that in the Giraffe, the former being to the latter as 16 5 to 18 inches. In the Rodentia, as the Hare, Agouti, and Guinea-pig, we observe a similar disproportion in the length of the extremities. The Rabbit, in moving slowly, advances the anterior feet two or three steps alternately, the posterior limbs remaining inactive. The body having been elongated by this means, the posterior legs are suddenly extended and drawn forwards simultaneously ; thus, the rabbit walks with the fore, and leaps with the hinder pair of legs. Those quadrupeds in which the length of the posterior extremities much pre- dominates over that of the anterior, are ob- served to descend declivities in a straight line with difficulty, on account of the great inclina- tion of the axis of the trunk to the plane of motion, which puts the animal in constant danger of oversetting; they therefore take a zigzag course. In ascending a hill, however, their progression is greatly facilitated by the length of their posterior extremities. The speed of the Hare is well known to be greater than that of the fleetest horse or hound. Ruminantia.— Many of the Ruminantia, such as the Deer and Antelope, are beautifully and symmetrically organized for rapidity of loco- motion ; the Camel for prolonged power of tra- versing the arid desert; and the Ox for the strength and development of its muscularsystem. Amongst the Ruminantia some species have the neck of great length, and the head being surmounted with massive horns, or antlers, renders it necessary that the spinous processes of the lower cervical and superior dorsal verte- brae be lengthened, so as to form powerful levers for the attachment of muscles, and of that yellow elastic tissue, the ligamentum nucha, which is greatly developed in the Rumi- nantia, to support the head and its appendages ; the latter acting at the end of a long lever tends to throw the centre of gravity forwards nearly between the anterior extremities. The figure of the trunk is elliptical; its transverse axis dimi- nishes as it approaches the anterior extremities; there are no clavicles ; and from the small degree of curvature of the ribs, the arms are thrown almost together beneath the trunk, and nearly in the plane of the mesial section of the body. The Giraffe presents greater length of osseous columns for the support of its superstructure than is to be found in any other animal; the bones of the anterior extremity are directed more vertically than those of the posterior, which enable it to support, with less weight of bone and less expenditure of muscular force, its lengthened neck, upon which the head acts as at the end of a long lever. The metatarsal and metacarpal bones are of great length, and being directed vertically, as in the Pachy- dermata, the trunk is elevated to a great height. The three phalanges of each finger and toe are inclined forwards ; the extensor tendons acton them by means of a pulley, through the inter- same species of animals may be considered nearly constant for all ages, soxes, and magnitudes. position of the sesamoid bones, which increase the distance of the direction of the tendons from the axes of the joints, and give them greater power. The length of the arms to that of the legs in the Giraffe is as 71 to 67 inches, which gives a difference of four inches in favour of the length of the arms. This disproportion is further augmented by the lengthened scapulae, and by the increased angular disposition of the posterior extremities. In the Camel, the length of the legs is more nearly equal than in the Giraffe, the anterior being to the posterior limbs as 49 to 47 inches ; the spine is consequently directed more hori- zontally than in the Giraffe. The order in which the movements of the legs succeed each other in the Camel is like that of other quadrupeds. The velocity of the camel at its common tra- velling pace is estimated at 2\ miles an hour.* In Deer and Antelopes, the geometrical pro- portions are such as to confer on them great speed. The lightness, elegance, and strength of their osseous fabric, the energy of their mus- cular system, the freedom of motion in the vertebral column, the large arc described in the greatest rotation of the scapula and pelvis, the length and proportions of their extremities, the length of the olecranon and calcaneum, the vertical direction and length of the metatarsal and metacarpal bones, the inclined direction and freedom of motion of the three phalanges of the fingers and toes, the number and relative distances of the joints,—all conspire to perfect the progression of these Ruminantia. They bound by the sudden flexion and extension of all the legs, which are lifted from the ground simultaneously, and which, after projecting the centre of gravity in a vertical direction, appear to arrive again synchronously on the plane of motion. They walk or trot upon the principle of other quadrupeds, as explained already in the Horse. The Deer and Antelope, celebrated for speed, bound over plains, ascend or descend mountains, and also possess the power of leap- ing across an abyss of great breadth, or down precipices twenty or thirty feet in depth with- outsustaining the slightest injury from the shock. Proboscidia.—The enormous bulk of the head and body, and massive proportions of the osseous and muscular systems, are more largely developed in the ponderous Proboscidia than in any other known species of terrestrial quadru- peds. The dimensions of the bones of the extremities are proportional to the gravity of the superincumbent weight; the scapula and pelvis, as well as the axes of the scapulo-humeral and ilio-femoral cavities,are directed nearly per- pendicular to the plane of progression, and the whole column in each extremity presents a less angular disposition of the axes of the bones than is found in the lighter and more agile solidungulous Pachydermata. The olecranon and calcaneum, as well as the trochanters, afford long and powerful levers for the applica- tion of muscular action. The ginglymoid * Sec Rennel on the rate of travelling of camels, Phil. Trans. 1791, p. 129.