720O PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. narcotic substances ; or, on the other hand, we may unduly excite them by applying a strong solution of strychnia. The contact of a solid body with a nerve may irritate and keep up a continual state of excitement, if it do not destroy its properties. A spiculum of bone, in contact with nervous fibres, is often the cause of the severest forms of neuralgia; inflammation may produce like effects. Various physical agents may produce similar consequences. Thebenumb- ing influence of cold is explained in this way. Ex- posure to a continuous draught of cold air is a frequent cause of facial paralysis. The giving way of a carious tooth will immediately occa- sion toothache by exposing the nerves of its pulp to the irritating influence of the air, or of the fluids of the mouth. And undue heat is likewise injurious to the physical constitution, and, therefore, to the action of nerves. These facts are of great interest in reference to the pathology of nervous diseases, and suggest that the attraction of a morbid material in the blood to a nerve or set of nerves, or to that part of the nervous centre in which such nerves may be implanted, may afford satisfactory explanation of many obscure phenomena of nerves of sen- sation. The organic change, whatever be its intrinsic nature, which stimuli, whether mental or phy- sical, produce in a nerve, developes that won- derful power long known to physiologists by the name vis nervosa, the nervous force. This force is more or less engaged in all the func- tions of the body, whether organic or animal. In the former its office is to regulate, control, and harmonize; in the latter it is the main- spring of action without which none of the phenomena can take place. It is the natural ex- citantof muscularmotion, and the display of that wondrous powerdepends upon its energy ; with- out vigour in the developement and application of the nervous force, a well-formed muscular system would be of little use, for it would quickly suffer in its nutrition if deprived of that exercise which is essential to it. In the various combinations of thought which take place in the exercise of the intellect, there can be no doubt that the nervous force is called into play in the hemispheres of the brain. Here the stimulus is mental; the inde- pendent operations of the mind excite the ac- tion of the appropriate fibres of the brain, and the developement of the nervous force in the brain immediately succeeds the intellectual workings. It is thus that we explain the bodily exhaustion which mental labour in- duces; and thus, too, we can understand the giving way of the brain—the inducement of cerebral disease—under the incessant wear and tear to which men of great intellectual powers expose it. On the other hand, physical changes in the brain, of a kind different from those which are normal to it, the circulation of too much, or too little, or of a morbid blood, may excite mental phenomena in an irregular way and give rise to delirium or mania. Of theconditionsnecessary for the maintenance of the power of developing the nervous force.— From what has been already stated, it is mani- fest that a healthy physical state of the nervous matter, whether in the nerves or in the nervous centres, constitutes the main condition neces- sary for preserving in them the power of deve- loping the nervous force. And as nerves will not maintain their healthy nutrition unless they be in union with the nervous centres, this union becomes an important condition for the main- tenance of this power in nerves. In the ner- vous centres the nerves form a connexion with the vesicular matter. We therefore infer that this connexion of the fibrous and vesicular matter is necessary for the exercise of the peculiar power of nerves, because we know of no instance, either in the human economy or in that of the inferior creatures, in which the nervous power is developed without this union. It is true that if a motor nerve be separated from the nervous centre, its peripheral segment will evince a susceptibility to stimuli, or, in other words, it will retain the power of gene- rating the nervous force for some time after the separation. This is, however, only for a short period, as the experiments of Longet distinctly show. Longet cut out a portion of the sciatic nerve in dogs, and irritated the lower segment of the nerve on each succeeding day by means of galvanism from a pile of twenty couples, and by mechanical irritation. The nerve ceased to be excitable on and after the fourth day, (" des le quatrieme jour.")* These results, although they appear to differ from those obtained by Muller and Sticker, and Steinruch, are not really inconsistent with them. These observers, instead of examining and irritating the lower segment of the nerve each succeeding day after the sec- tion, allowed it to remain for an arbitrary period untouched, and then reopened the wound to try the effect of stimulating the nerve. Thus Muller and Sticker waited eleven weeks in one rabbit, five weeks in a second, and two months and a half in a dog, and in all the cases found the nerve inexcitable ; and Steinruch waited four weeks, at which time he found that the power of the nerve had disappeared. It is obvious that there was nothing in any of these experi- ments to cast a doubt on the possibility of the nerve having lost its excitability at a much earlier period after the section, and that the selection of five or eight or eleven weeks, as the period when to inquire whether the nerve re- tained its excitability or not, was entirely arbi- trary on the part of the experimenters. The rapidity with which a nerve loses its power after it has been separated from the nervous centres clearly denotes that connection with the centre is a necessary condition for the nutritive activity of nerves, and is, therefore, a necessary condition for their functional activity, or, in other words, for the full developement of the nervous force under its appropriate sti- muli. There are, however, other facts which, inasmuch as they enhance the importance of the vesicular matter in the manifestation of nervous phenomena, give great weight to the proposition under consideration. These are— * Longet, Recherebes Experimental surl'Irrita- bilite Musculaire : l'Examinateur Med. Dec. 1841.