NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. Abnormal Anatomy.) 717 The existence of serous fluid in the arach- noid cavity is of very rare occurrence. In some instances old adhesions of the two layers of arachnoid to each other circumscribe a space in which fluid accumulates. Blood is sometimes effused into the subarach- noid cavity. This is frequently the case in injuries of the head, the blood escaping from broken vessels of the pia mater. Sometimes the blood effused into either lateral ventricle will escape into the subarachnoid cavity, break- ing down the membrane of the ventricle. If an apoplexy occur near the surface of the brain, the laceration of the cerebral substance may extend quite to the surface, and the blood may pass through the pia mater into the subarach- noid space. In some instances we find blood in the cavity of the arachnoid (the arachnoid sac). The blood is either loose in the sac, or it is more or less closely connected with the inner surface of the membrane lining the dura mater. In a recent communication from Mr. Pres- cott Hewitt, published in the last volume of the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, the prin- cipal facts relating to this subject have been collected and arranged in an interesting form. Mr. Hewitt describes these effusions of blood as existing in four forms :— " 1. The extravasated blood may be either liquid or coagulated ; if in the latter state, it may be in clots, or spread out in the shape of a thin membranous layer, covering a greater or less extent of the surface of the brain. " 2. Sometimes the extravasation presents itself under the shape of a false membrane, possessing more or less of the original colour of the blood. " 3. The blood may be fixed to the free surface of the arachnoid and there maintained by a membrane, which to the naked eye pre- sents all the characters of the serous membrane itself. " 4. The blood is frequently found enclosed in a complete cyst of various degrees of thick- ness, which may be removed unbroken from the cavity of the serous membrane. " The lour divisions above referred to," adds Mr. Hewitt, " may be and often are combined with each other, but in whatever state the extra- vasated blood has been found, it has, in the majority of cases, corresponded to the upper surface of the brain, and has been rarely met with in the cerebellar fossa;." It is impossible that these effusions of blood can have any other source but the minute bloodvessels of the pia mater or the dura mater, which becoming ruptured allow the blood to burst through the serous membrane by which they are covered. They occur mostly in per- sons of a scorbutic or hemorrhagic habit, or in whom the arteries have become brittle from abnormal deposits in them; and it is not im- probable that whilst the imperfect nutrition of the arteries is going on, the serous membrane itself suffers, becomes wasted, and therefore easily yields to the force of the blood as it escapes from the bloodvessels. Pus is found in the subarachnoid cavity where there has been inflammation of the pia mater and arachnoid, and more rarely in the arachnoid sac. Of the pia mater.—This membrane being the vascular membrane of the brain, and con- taining the nutrient vessels as well of the sur- face of the brain as of the visceral layer of the arachnoid, is the seat of all those changes in the condition of the bloodvessels or of their contents, which give rise to, or are caused by, morbid states either of the nervous matter or of the serous membrane. All those changes which indicate hyperemia or ana;mia of the convolutions of the brain occur in the pia mater; and the colour of this membrane will vary according to the quantity of blood contained in its bloodvessels. There are no definite signs which enable the anatomist to pronounce whether an hyperemia be of the active and inflammatory kind, or passive, and dependent on some cause remote from the brain itself, or even upon a post- mortem cause, unless it be accompanied with those undoubted products of the inflammatory process, pus or lymph. A highly injected state of the vessels of the pia mater will frequently be caused by the manner of the patient's death. Where the respiratory actions have been laboured and dif- ficult prior to death, this is sure to occur: we find it also when death has been caused by asphyxia, however produced. In convulsive diseases the pia mater and the whole brain become highly injected more as a consequence of the impeded circulation caused by the struggles of the patient interfering with the due exercise of the respiratory movements, than as the cause of the convulsions. Indeed, there seem good grounds for believing that con- vulsions are more frequently caused by a de- ficient supply of blood to the brain than by a superabundant flow of it to that organ. The pia mater is the seat of the principal morbid deposits which affect the brain. Of these tubercle is among the most common; it most frequently occurs on the surface of the convolutions; but it may be found wherever the pia mater exists, either in the interior or on the outside of the brain. It occurs less fre- quently on the pia mater of the cerebellum than in any other situation. The tubercular deposit in the pia mater com- mences by the developement of minute granu- lations of a grey, clear, or semi-transparent material. These are deposited close to each other over a greater or less surface, forming a group, and several such groups may be formed near each other. After a time this grey ma- terial is changed into a yellow granular matter, which is sometimes enclosed in a cyst. Tubercular matter originally deposited on the surface of the pia mater in the sulcus of a convolution may have the appearance as if it had been formed in the substance of the brain. The sulcus is obliterated, and the tubercle, enlarging towards the brain, becomes, in a short time, surrounded by cerebral matter. Sometimes tubercle deposited in some part of the pia mater excites inflammation in the pia