MAMMARY GLANDS. 256 " In proportion as the malignant fungus is recent and of small dimensions, is the diffi- culty of diagnosis from the hydatid cyst, for the fungus, as I have before said, ordinarily commences on the interior of a cyst containing a fluid, from the vascular lining of which it hangs like a fringe, and it is common to find more than one, often several contiguous cysts, in the early stage of the disease. As the fungi grow, the cysts burst and are blended in the same mass. From this account it will appear that there is sufficient analogy between the hydatid and fungoid disease in its incipient state to require more aids to diagnosis than those derived from manual examination. We sometimes meet with puzzling analogies in these diseases." " The relation of medullary sarcoma," says Miiller, " to scirrhus or carcinoma simplex is displayed by the fact that after amputation of a scirrhous breast, real fungoid tumours may oc- cur in other parts, as many observations of Zaup- taft, Cruveilhier, and others abundantly shew. This affinity is further illustrated by microscopic examination, which shews that many structures comprehended under the generic term of fungus medullaris differ greatly from each other, and have nothing in common but the softness of their texture." Miiller therefore employs the term fungus medullaris " as a collective name for different forms or stages of developement of soft cancer, which undergo imperceptible transitions into each other." The following are the varieties for a knowledge of the minutiae of which we must refer our readers to the original. " 1. Carcinoma medullare, abounding in roundish formative globules which make up the greater part of the medullary mass, though intersected by a delicate fibrous net-work. " 2. Carcinoma medullare, with an exceed- ingly soft cerebriform base composed of pale elliptical bodies without caudate appendages. " 3. Carcinoma medullare, with caudate or spindle-shaped corpuscules. " Carcinoma Jasciculatum (syn. hyacinum.) —Among the structures commonly included under the name fungus medullaris, are some altogether fibrous in their texture, and which correspond with other forms of that disease only in the softness of their tissue. The fibrous structure of these growths is immedi- ately evident on breaking or dividing them ; when torn they do not crumble, but are readily rent in the direction of the fibres. If ex- amined under a microscope they display nei- ther the cellular globules of other varieties of carcinoma, nor the caudate corpuscules which give a fibrous appearance to some forms of fun- gus medullaris." Mr. Travers, in the paper previously referred to, says that f( certain anomalous morbid changes, as large fungous excrescences and deep cavernous fetid ulcers, are now and then the sequelae of tumours in the female breast which are in a loose and slovenly classification termed cancerous. They are not so ; but they are almost as incapable of being conducted to a curative termination as if they were; their progress can scarcely be said to affect the health, being remarkable for its slowness and freedom from pain." He also describes an excoriation of the integument around the nipple gradually extending over the breast, accompanied by an ichorous exudation which remains in the same incurable state many years, and ultimately throws up a broad toad-stool fungus exquisitely irritable and much disposed to bleed. It affects neither the glands nor health." Melanosis or black cancer has been met with in the breast, but we believe never as a primary disease, the breast having been attacked sub- sequently to other tissues. Breschet, in his treatise on this disease, gives a representation of it in this organ. There is a preparation of it in the museum of Bartholomew's Hospital. It is considered by Miiller as " merely a variety of cancerous degeneration, and terminates in the same way as other forms of carcinoma." " Microscopic examination," says Miiller, " detects two forms of melanotic structure. In both instances the basis of the structure is formed of a fibrous network, the stroma of me- lanosis, within the meshes of which the mela- noid matter is deposited. This matter is gene- rally composed of cells, filled with yellowish or blackish green granules. These cells are and always continue to be free, never becoming coherent. Their forms are very various. Many, indeed most, are round, oval, or irregular; some are elongated; a few actually caudate, terminating at one or both extremities in a point or in a fibril. Still more rarely the cells present several points. They are real pigment cells." This author discovered in one of the larger cells a nucleus with its nucleolus, in- dependently of the pigment granules. We cannot conclude this article more satisfactorily than by quoting from the same accurate ob- server, Mr. Travers, of whose observations we have already so fully availed ourselves. " No description can comprehend all the varieties of tumour to which this organ is liable, nor does any share of experience enable the nicest observation to suggest an infallible clue to their nature. We have sometimes only manipulation to depend upon, which is an art imperfectly cultivated by scientific surgeons. Cases now and then arise about which the most accurate observers are liable to error. True it is this does not frequently happen in the distinction between innocent and malignant growths. The several species of innocent tu- mours already enumerated may all be distin- guished from scirrhus with comparatively little difficulty; but if any doubt exists we must consider the age, habits, and circumstances of the patient. For example, we should ascertain if marks of scrofula are present; if the uterine functions are regular and healthy; if the tu- mour can be referred to violence in the com- mencement, which from the exposed situation of the organ is far from uncommon; if more than one lump exists in the same breast; if both breasts are infected; if painful, the cha- racter of the pain ; if any absorbent glands are altered in the neighbourhood and how. How many cases of breast tumour are in the recol-