MAMMARY GLANDS. 247 produce so much excitement as to occasion and rete mucosum, its surface is found to be erection of the nipple." covered with papillae like those of the nipple, The nipple is carefully connected with the but of smaller size, although stiil extremely gland by means of a firm fascia encircling the distinct. They are smallest at the circumference lactiferous tubes derived from the general of the areola, but gradually increase in size as fibrous tissue of the breast and thorax. they approach the nipple. They are disposed The areola.-—This term has been applied to in circles, their bases fixed in the cutis, and the coloured circle which surrounds the nipple, the apex of each is directed towards the nipple, It is smooth until the period of puberty, when so that they are opposed to the papillae of the it becomes slightly tuberculated. Its diameter lips of the child. They are very vascular and in a child is about half an inch; at puberty sensitive bodies". (See fig. 71.) The whole and in young women double that size, and structure of the areola points to it as a continu- during lactation is as much as two inches or ation of the nipple. more, not again changing except in very old The nipple and areola are lubricated by the age, when it almost disappears. secretion of especial mucous follicles which The change of the colour of the areola from surround them, called by Sir A. Cooper the a reddish tint to a dark brown as the result of tubercles of the areola. " These glands are impregnation is well known to the practitioner, extremely vascular, lobulated, and cellular. The cuticle is thin as in the nipple. Speaking Each orifice opens into an arborescent vessel or of the cutis of the areola Sir A. Cooper vessels." (Seefig. 72). observes, that " when the areola is examined with attention after the separation of the cuticle A front view of the nipple and areola, shewing tlie have been supposed by anatomists to produce milk, foliated appearance of the papillae and the numerous and to have communication with the lactiferous tubes, but smaller papilla: of the areola. from which, however, they are separate and dis~ This and the following figures are all taken from tinct. They secrete a mucous fluid, which has Sir A. Cooper's work. more the appearance of gruel than milk. A section of the mammary gland through the nipple, shewing the ducts over a bristle unravelled, and pro- ceeding to the posterior part of tlie gland. The ligamenta suspensoria may be seen passing from the anterior surface of the gland to the skin, supporting the folds or processes of the former, and leaving considerable cavities between them, in which the fat is contained in its proper membrane. The fascia may be observed passing to each extremity of the gland and dividing into two portions; the anterior proceeding upon the surface of the gland to form the ligamenta susjjensoria; the posterior behind the gland, sending processes between which a smaller quantity of fat is contained; and both these layers assist in producing the fibrous tissue of the gland. It also sends processes of fascia backwards to join the aponeurosis of the pectoral muscle, b, b, forming the line from one extremity of the gland to the other. The section, therefore, clearly shews the various cords by means of which the breast is slung and sustained, a, a, the fascia.