365 MOLLUSCA. and complex, and in the Cephalopods is evi- dently provided with gustatory papillae. The sense of touch is in this as in other groups of animals the most generally possessed and the most widely diffused over the body. The mar- ginal fringe of tentacles on the mantle of most ISivalves; the branched processes of the skin in certain Pteropods and Gastropods ; the ce- phalic tentacles or ' horns,' as they are termed, in the Snail and allied Mollusks; the rich and varied apparatus of cephalic and labial ten- tacles—nearly one hundred in number—in the Nautilus ; and the extremities of the acetabuli- ferous arms of the higher Cephalopods, may all be regarded as organs of delicate sensa- tion : the same opinion may reasonably be entertained of the highly vascular surface of the ventral locomotive disc or ' foot' in the Slug, Snail, and other Gastropods. The voluntary muscular fibre of the Mollus- cous animals is distinguished from that of the Articulate and Vertebrate animals by the ab- sence of the transverse stria?, and in most of the Acephalous Mollusks it is antagonized by a merely elastic gelatinous fibre In the Tuni- caries the flexible outer coat obeys and opposes the change of form which the inner muscular envelope occasions. In the Bivalves, whose shell affords firm levers of attachment to the muscles, the antagonizing elastic force is im- planted at the hinge of the shell; and some of the species (Mollusca subsilentia of I'oli) can, by virtue of this mechanism of solid lever with its attached muscular and elastic fibre, execute short leaps. The Encephalous Mollusks with a cerebral centre of nervous influence antagonize one series of muscles by the regulated action of another series, and are no longer dependent on mere elastic fibres for their movements. The musculo-cutaneous mantle is produced in the form of fins in the Pteropods, Heteropods, and some Cephalopods ; or there is an accumula- tion of longitudinal fibres, intersected by ob- lique or transverse ones on the ventral surface of the mantle, producing the thick contractile disc, which is termed the foot. This some- times extends the whole length of the body, as in the Gastropods, sometimes is developed only from the region of the neck, as in the Trache- lipods. The attachment of the body to the shell in these Mollusks, the presence of, and power of retracting and elongating, a siphon or breath- ing tube, the movements of the head and its appendages, especially when these are deve- loped into instruments of progressive motion and prehension, as in the Cephalopods, are the chief conditions of the progressive advance- ment and complication of the muscular system in the Molluscous sub-kingdom. The heterogangliate type of the nervous sys- tem, with the correspondingly low condition of the muscular and other organs of relation, which, commencing in the Ciliobrachiate Po- lypes, is established in the Mollusks, is on the whole very inferior to the conditions and powers of the sensitive and motive systems in the Arti- culates : but, on the other hand, " the organs of growth and reproduction become more evolved ; and in the Mollusca we are presented with a perfecting of the internal organs, which is to prepare for and to be more fully deve- loped in the higher animals."* The alimentary canal is provided with a se- parate mouth and vent: the stomach may be distinguished from the cesophagus and intes- tine, and a liver is present in all the Mollusks, and is remarkable in most for its large size and complicated lobular form. The bile is secreted from arterial blood. The mouth in the Ace- phalous Mollusks is generally concealed in the interior of the pallia! cavity, but is always si- tuated at the anterior part of the body, or that which is opposite to the excrementory and re- spiratory tubes or orifices. There are neither jaws nor salivary glands in this division. Among the Encephala, however, in which the mouth is armed with horny plates representing in diffe- rent species the knife, the saw, the rasp, or the scissors, the salivary system attains an extraordi- nary degree of development, especially in the Cephalopods, in which the mandibles resemble those of the Raptorial bird, and sometimes have their margins armed with a calcareous dentated plate. In the Cephalopods the pancreas makes its first appearance. The special forms of the progressive complications of the digestive sys- tem in the present division of animals will be found amply illustated in the articles Tuni- CATA, CONCHIPERA, PtEROPODA, GASTRO- PODA, Cephalopoda. The circulating system, which, as has been stated, is complete and double in all the Mollusks, is provided in all the species with a systemic heart, and in the highest organized species with a distinct heart for the lesser or branchial circulation. The systemic heart first appears in the sessile Tunicaries as a vasiform undivided ventricle, which, however, is in- closed in a distinct pericardium. It is concen- trated into a more compact muscular organ in the Conchifers, and divided into a venous and arterial chamber; but the auricle, and some- times also the ventricle, as in Area, is sub- divided and segregated, according to the law of self-repetition, which is exemplified in all the systems of organs at their first appearance in the animal kingdom. The heart of the Gastropods exhibits the higher type of a single auricle and ventricle, both placed at the termi- nation of the lesser and the commencement of the greater circulation. In the highest Cepha- lopods the course of the blood is accelerated in both circulations by a muscular ventricle, but the superadded analogue of the pulmonic heart here, likewise, at its first appearance illustrates, by its separation into two distinct ventricles, the law above alluded to in reference to the systemic heart of the lower Mollusks. The respiratory organ is distinctly developed in all Mollusks, and is subject to the greatest variety of forms in this division of the animal kingdom; yet, with the exception of the small sessile order of Ascidians at the lowest extreme, * See the eloquent and philosophic ' Recapitu- lnry Lecture' of Prof. Green, Vital Dynamics, 8vo. 18 4«.