139 MUSCLES OF THE LEG. named by Meckel the triceps sura. It is seen immediately on raising the last muscle. It arises from two distinct situations ; first, from the upper and back part of the head of the fibula, and from the posterior surface and outer edge of that bone for some way down. Se- cond, from the oblique ridge on the posterior surface of the tibia, just below the popliteus, and from the inner edge of that bone during the middle third of its length. From these two attachments the muscle almost imme- diately forms a thick fleshy belly, which de- scends lower than the gastrocnemius before it sends off its tendon. This, which is flat and strong, soon unites to the tendon of the gastro- cnemius to form the tendo Achillis, and is then passing to be inserted into the upper and back part of the projecting portion of the os calcis. At its insertion there is a small bursa between the upper part of the bone and the tendon. The soleus is in contact with the gastro- cnemius posteriorly ; below its fleshy fibres ap- pear on each side of the tendon of that muscle. Between its two origins the posterior tibial vessels and nerve are passing, defended from pressure by the tendinous expansion which is on the under side of the muscle, and which spreads across from tibia to fibula. This muscle is also in contact with the plantaris, the tendon of which crosses it obliquely from without to within. In front it rests upon the deep layer of muscles and upon the posterior tibial vessels. The tendo Achillis is the thickest and strongest tendon in the body; it tapers down- wards nearly to the heel, and before its attachment expands again a little. It lies immediately under the skin, and between it and the bones is a considerable layer of cel- lular tissue containing fat. The action of the two last described muscles is to elevate the os calcis, and thereby to lift up the whole body. When this is done on one foot in the act of progression, the other is capable of being carried forward unimpeded by the irregularities of the surface. When the foot is the fixed point, the soleus by acting on the tibia and fibula fixes the leg, while the gastrocnemius fixes the femur, or by acting further, draws it backward so as to bend the knee and lower the body. 3. Plantaris.—This little muscle is entirely covered by the outer head of the gastro- cnemius. It arises from the upper part of the external condyle of the femur, and from the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. Its mus- cular structure is only about two inches in length, and it sends its long slender tendon downwards and inwards, between the two great muscles of the calf, emerging from between them just where their two tendons unite; it then passes down in contact with the edge of the tendo Achillis, to be inserted into the heel at the inner side of that tendon. The action of the plantaris is to assist the great extensors of the foot, and to draw upon the capsule of the knee-joint, so as to prevent any ill effects upon that ligament from the motions of the knee-joint. It is occasionally deficient. The deep layer of muscles consists of four: 1. popliteus; 2. flexor longus digitorum; 3. flexor longus polhcis; 4. tibialis posticus. They lie in close contact with the bones, and the last three of them are covered by the deep fascia of the leg. This membrane is a thin expansion, dense in structure, connected on each side with the borders of the bones, and towards the ankles with the sheaths of the tendons ; and if traced along the interval between the inner ankle and the heel, it will be found to cover the vessels and to terminate at the internal annular liga- ment. Immediately underneath it we find the deep layer of muscles now under consi- deration. 1. Popliteus is situated below and behind the knee-joint, is flat and somewhat triangular, being broader below than above. Arises within the capsular ligament of the knee-joint, by a round tendon, from the under and back part of the outer condyle of the femur; ad- heres to the posterior and outer surface of the external semilunar cartilage; perforates the back part of the capsular ligament, and forms a fleshy belly which runs obliquely downwards and inwards. It is covered by a thin tendi- nous fascia from the tendon of the semi-membra- nosus ; inserted broad, thin, and fleshy into an oblique ridge on the posterior surface of the tibia, a little below its head, and into the trian- gular space above that ridge. Action, to bend the knee-joint, and when bent, to roll it so as to turn the toes inwards. 2. Flexor longus digitorum is thin and pointed at its commencement, but gradually increases, and then diminishes again as its fibres end in a tendon. Arises fleshy from the posterior flattened surface of the tibia, be- tween its internal and external angles, be- low the attachment of the soleus, and con- tinues to arise from the bone to within two or three inches of the ankle. The fibres run obliquely into a tendon, which is situated on the posterior edge of the muscle. This tendon runs in a groove of the tibia, behind the inner ankle, and then passing obliquely forwards into the sole of the foot, receives in its passage a strong slip from the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. It then divides into four tendons, which pass through the slits in the tendons of the flexor brevis digitorum, and as they run along the under surface of the toes they are bound down by strong fibrous sheaths, within which there are also little accessory ligaments assist- ing in fixing them. They are inserted into the bases of the extreme phalanges of the four lesser toes. The action of this muscle is to flex all the four smaller toes, and to assist in elevating the foot upon the toes. Previously to its division, the tendon of the flexor longus gives insertion to an accessory muscle of considerable power (jlexor acces- sorius), which connects it to the calcaneum, and materially modifies the direction of its action upon the toes. Close to the point of division, the tendons give origin to four small