NERVOUS CENTRES. (Hum The ganglions are small masses occupying certain situations in the body. They are ex- tremely numerous in the human body, and very variable in shape and size. One great sub- division of them, in man and the mammalia, is connected with the posterior roots of the spinal, and with certain encephalic nerves. Another class belongs to the sympathetic sys- tem. In the Invertebrata the nervous system is made up of a series of them variously dis- posed, with their afferent, efferent, and con- necting nerves. The spinal cord and the brain are peculiar to the great class of vertebrated animals. They may be regarded as compound ganglions, being physiologically resolvable into a series of smaller centres, which are, to a certain extent, inde- pendent of each other. Viewed anatomically, they are not so obviously divisible: in the spinal cord, in which the independent influence of separate segments may be most easily demonstrated, no anatomical subdivision is obvious, for the segments are fused together into a cylindroid body, which has a certain relation to the length and muscular activity of the animal. Indications, however, of this composite form of the spinal cord are afforded, in the marked difference of dimensions which certain parts of it present when compared with others, there being always a manifest corres- pondence between the size of any segment of the cord and the motor or sensitive endowment of that segment of the body which receives its nerves from it. And the case of the common gurnard f Trigla Lyra) may be here quoted as a remarkable instance of the developement of distinct gangliform bodies on a portion of the cord, in accordance with a particular exaltation of tactile sensibility. The brain is much more evidently made up of a series of separate centres or smaller masses, exhibiting sufficiently distinct boundaries on their surfaces, but so intimately connected by what are called commissural or uniting fibres, as to manifest the same kind of fusion (although to a less degree) as that noticed in the spinal cord. These gangliform bodies are so readily distinguishable from one another, that from the earliest periods of anatomical investigation each of them has been designated by a distinct name, which is generally derived from some prominent feature of the body itself, or from the name of some familiar object which it has been sup- posed (often fancifully) to resemble. The aggregate of these bodies is known in popular language by the name of Brain, (a word of Saxon origin, sometimes used in the plural); this word, however, anatomically speaking, is applicable only to the great hemispheric lobes which form the largest portion of the whole mass; and the term Encephalon may be more correctly used to denote the whole of the intra- cranial contents. It is proposed in the present article to con- sider the general and descriptive anatomy of these nervous centres severally, beginning with an examination of their coverings. Coverings of the nervous centres. Coverings of the ganglions. — Every an Anatomy. The Meninges.) 627 ganglion is covered by a more or less dense layer of white fibrous tissue, similar to that which forms the neurilemma of nerves. It per- forms precisely the same office for the elements of the ganglions that the neurilemma does for those of nerves; that is, it gives them a me- chanical support, and is the medium through which bloodvessels are conveyed to their ner- vous matter. It is continuous with the neu- rilemma of the nerves which are connected with the ganglions. It is found in all forms and classes of ganglions, presenting the same essen- tial characters. These bodies are generally surrounded by and imbedded in a considerable quantity of fat, which also involves more or less the nerves that proceed from them. Coverings of the spinal cord and brain. —These are also called the membranes of these centres, or the meninges (unviy^, membrana). They are three in number. Those of the brain are continuous with those of the spinal cord, but, as there are certain distinctive characters proper to each, it will be convenient to describe the cerebral and spinal meninges separately. They are, enumerating them from without in- wards, the dura mater, the arachnoid mem- brane, and the pia mater. The term, mater, ^t»i§, originated with the Arabian anatomists, who regarded these mem- branes as the parents of all others in the body. Galen adopted the word priviyl;, and distin- guished the first and last of the membranes above enumerated by the adjectives -rra-^yngri and *£7rr>). The Germans use the word hunt, and designate these membranes as hautige Hullen des Gehirns und des Ruckenmarkes; die harte Hirnhaut, die h'drte Ruckenmurk- haut, the dura mater of the brain and spinal cord; die Spinnwebenhaut, the arachnoid ; and die weiche Haut, the pia mater. Dura mater,—The dura mater is a dense membrane composed almost exclusively of white fibrous tissue. It has all the characters, physical and vital, of that texture, possessing great strength and flexibility with but little elasticity. It is freely supplied by blood- vessels, and at certain situations, which will be more particularly described by-and-bye, it separates into two laminae, which inclose prolongations of the lining membrane of the venous system, forming peculiar sanguiferous channels, which are commonly known by the name of sinuses. It has an apparent lamellar disposition, from the fact of its fibres being arranged in different planes. In the child a subdivision into two layers may sometimes be easily effected. Some nerves have been de- monstrated in the dura mater; a branch of the fifth nerve has been particularly described and delineated by Arnold, as passing in a recur- rent course between the lamina? of the tento- rium, and Pappenheim has found nervous fibres in the cerebral dura mater derived from the superior maxillary division of the fifth, from the fourth nerve, from the vidian, and probably also from the frontal branch of the ophthalmic* * Valentin Repertorium, vol. v. p. 87.