LACRYMAL ORGANS. 89 sion of a size sufficient to receive the point of the thumb, situated in the roof of the orbit at its upper and outer angle, just within the overhanging; outer extremity of the superciliary arch. The superior lacrymal gland is of an oval or triangular shape about three-fourths of an inch in Us longest diameter and about half an inch across. It is flattened from above downwards. Its upper surface is convex; its lower plane or concave. The thickest edge of the gland is turned outwards. The gland is of a reddish colour and is en- veloped in a thin but dense cellular coat. The lower mass of the lacrymal gland, or gland ula lacrymalis inferior, is a loosely connected ag- gregation of lobules of the same glandular substance as the above. It was first described by the second Monro, who called the lobules, for distinction's sake, glandula congregate* The lower mass of the lacrymal gland is smaller than the upper, with which it is in con- tact above, whilst below it extends to the outer part of the upper margin of the tarsal cartilage of the upper eyelid. It lies indeed in the substance of the upper eyelid at the outer part. It is seen shining through the conjunctiva in everting the upper eyelid. Fig. 13. Lacrymal gland, left side. a a, Superior mass ; b b, inferior mass ; c, part of interior mass lying towards the outer canthus. Intimate structure of the lacrymal gland.— The lacrymal gland is what is commonly called conglomerate. It belongs to Midler's com- pound glands with canals of the ramified type. " In the arrangement of the secreting canals of the lacrymal glands," says Muller,f " two principal forms are observed : the one is that which I discovered in the chelonian reptiles; the other, that which prevails in birds and Mammalia. In the chelonia, the gland is formed of a number of club-shaped lobes, united together by means of the different ducts which run in their interior. The duct of each lobe is pretty uniform in diameter, and into it open an innumerable quantity of microscopical tufts of cceca, which are arranged around it * Monro's Observations, Anatomical and Phy- siological, wherein Dr. Hunter's claim to some dis- coveries is examined, p. 77. Edinburgh, p. 77. Rosenmuller, Partium Externarum oculi humani, imprimis organorum lacrymalium descriptio anato- mica, &c. § 109. Lipsias, 1810. t Handbuch der Physiologie des Mcnschen, Bd. i. S. 438. Or, Translation by Baly, p. 445. See also " De glandularum secernentiimi penitiori structura, p. 51, 52, tab. v. figs. 3, 4, 5, & 8. at right angles like the foliage of a moss on its stem." In birds, in which the lacrymal gland is very small and situate at the posterior angle of the eye, and Mammalia, the secreting ca- nals of the lacrymal gland are regularly branched and terminate in each acinus in a number of small cells. In birds these cells are very large; and in them, and likewise in the horse, the cells can be tilled with mercury from the efferent duct. Efferent or excretory ducts of the lacrymal glands.—The lacrymal glands pour out their secretion by nine or twelve very slender excre- tory ducts which proceed from above down- wards and open on the surface of the con- junctiva on the inside of the upper eyelid. The orifices of the ducts are placed at about one-twentieth of an inch apart from each other in a row extending about half an inch from the outer canthus inwards, parallel to but a little above the outer part of the upper margin of the tarsal cartilage, that is, at the inferior boun- dary of the lower mass of the gland. The excretory ducts of the lacrymal gland were first discovered on the 11th of November,. 1665, by Nicolaus Steno,* in the eyelid of a sheep. He delineated them from the eye of the calf. Moreover it appears that Steno de- scribes vasa lacrymalia discovered in man, which opened in the membrane of the upper eyelid.f Admitted by some and doubted by others from the time of Steno, the ducts of the lacry- mal gland became a subject of dispute between Dr. William HunterJ and the second Monro,§ the one claiming to have observed them in the human eye before the other. The best way to demonstrate the ducts is to stretch the upper eyelid, turned inside out, upon the finger; then wipe clean the surface of the conjunctiva, and having by close in- spection at the place where the ducts open, as above described, discovered the orifices, take a short piece of human hair in the point of a forceps, and entering it at the orifice, push it on in the direction of the duct. From the orifices on the surface of the conjunctiva the ducts run nearly parallel with each other upwards. Of two eyes before me I have in this way inserted hairs into nine orifices of ducts in the one and into twelve orifices of the other, a work which did not occupy five minutes for each eye. In both eyes there is one orifice of a duct exactly within the external commissure, * Observationes Anatomicas, quibus varia oris, oculorum et narium vasa describuntur, novique saliva:, lacrumarum et muci fontes deteguntur et novum Bilsii commentum rejicitur. Leida?, 1662. See also Bibl. Anat. Clerici et Mangeti. Genev. 1699. fol. torn. ii. p. 787. t Thorn. Bartholoni epistolarum medicinalium a doctis et ad doctos scriptarum centuria iii. & iv. Hafniie, 1667-8. Epist. 53. cent. iv. % Monro's Observations, Anatomical and Phy- siological, wherein Dr. Hunter's claim to some discoveries is examined, p. 77. Edinburgh, 1758. § Dr. William Hunter's Medical Commentaries, p. 1, containing a plain answer to Professor Monro. London, 1762-4.