721y PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. flex, and these two kinds have an immediate but unknown relation to each other, so that before the Royal Society on February the 16th and 23d, and March the 2d, 1837, but was not pub- lished in the Transactions. This paper is entitled, " On the true Spinal Marrow and the Excito- motory System of Nerves." The object of this paper the author states to be the devclopement of a gieat principle in phjsio- logy—that of the special function of the true spinal marrow and of a system of excito-motory nerves. " It is this principle," he continues, " which operates in all those actions which have been de- signated sympathetic, which regulates the func- tions of ingestion and expulsion in the animal economy, and which guards the orifices and sphinc- ters of the animal frame." " The principle to which I allude," he proceeds, " has been confounded with sensation, and vo- luntary, and what has been designated instinctive, motion, by all (sic) physiologists, with one single exception (Sir Gilbert Plane). It has been sup- posed to be a function of the rational (Stahl) or irrational (Whytt) soul. It has been considered by some (Haller, &c) as attached to the brain; by others (Whytt, Soemmering, Alison, Muller,) as attached to the brain and spinal marrow ; by others (Le Gallois, Flourens, Mayo,) as peculiarly attached to segments of the spinal marrow ; it has been viewed by others as the function of the sym- pathetic (Tiedemann, Lobstein,) or of the pneu- mogastric nerve (Bell, Shaw); and, lastly, by others as operating through identity of origin or anastomoses of nerves (Mayo)." How very strange it is that amidst all the re- search displayed in this paragraph, no mention should have been made of Lnzer antl Prochaska, the only authors who really had clearly stated the correct doctrine respecting nervous phenomena in- dependent of the mind !! In this paper Dr. Hali falls into the curious error of affirming that the power which is developed in the nervous system in connection with sensation and volition, is different from that through which the reflex actions are produced. To the latter he limits the term vis nervosa, and, having quoted Ualler's very correct description of the course which it takes in motor nerves, he affirms that his researches have disclosed a series of phenomena " directly at variance with the conclusions of Haller." I confess myself quite unable to discover in what respect Dr. Hall's results are at variance with the laws of the vis nervosa as laid down by Haller. All that the latter physiologist affirmed was that the nervous force travelled from trunk to branches in motor nerves, and that irritation of the spinal cord caused convulsions of the limbs which derived their nerves from below the point of stimulation. Now these facts are strictly true—by whatever stimulus the nervous force is excited in motor nerves it travels from trunk to branches; and the statement marie by Haller respecting the spinal cord is equally true, namely, that the motor force travels downwards, and that irritation of the cord affects only the limbs below the irritated point. All that Dr. Hall has made out which is at variance with this pro- position is, that sometimes the anterior extremities may be thrown into action by stimulating that seg- ment of the cord from which the posterior extre- mities derive their nerves, from whence he con- cludes that " the motor power in the spinal mar- row will act in a retrograde direction." This conclusion, however, does not follow from the experiments adduced in support of it. If the spinal cord of a turtle be irritated in the segment from which the nerves to the hinder extremities spring, and all four extremities are thrown into action by that stimulus, we are not authorized to conclude that the motor power will act in the spinal each afferent nerve has its proper efferent one, the former being excitor, the latter motor. marrow in a retrograde direction; all that we are justified in affirming is that the same change which would excite the nerves of the irritated part of it may be propagated from its lower to its upper part. How this takes place is uncertain, whether by sen- sitive fibres or by commissural fibres, or by vesicular matter, most probably by the last. It may, however, be stated that such phenomena as those described take place chiefly in an excited state of the cord, as when the animal is under the influence of strychnine—or in tetanus—and their occurrence is far from being in accordance with a normal state of action of the spinal cord. I have frequently irritated the cord in healthy animals without producing any movements save in parts below the point stimulated. (Vide supra, p. 721G.) Dr. Hall in this paper draws the same conclusions as in his work last referred to as to the existence of a " true spinal marrow physiologically distinct from the chord of intra-spinal nerves ; of a system of excito-motory nerves, physiologically distinct from that of the sentient and voluntary nerves ; and of a nervous influence—the excito-motory power—ope- rating in directions incident, upwards, downwa.ds, and reflex, with regard to the true spinal marrow, the centre of this excito-motory system." When Dr. Hall uses the term physiologically distinct, of course he means, likewise, anatomically distinct. One part cannot be physiologically distinct from another without being anatomically so also. In the second section of this paper Dr. Hall gives " a slight sketch of the opinions of physiologists upon the subject of this memoir." He alludes to the views of Haller, Monro, Whytt, Blane, Le Gal- lois, and the Reporters of the Institute upon Le Gallois' Essay, Mayo, Flourens, Alison, and Mul- ler, but makes no allusion to cither Unzer or Pro- chaska. I pass over the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth sec- tions, and proceed to the seventh. Here the laws of the excito-motory system are stated, and those extravagant powers are attributed to it, which I have in the text endeavoured to show it cannot exercise. Put, in addition, this system is made to he the nervous agent of the appetites and passions ! What strange confusion! that a system, devised as the special centre of nervous actions independent of the mind, should be the seat of phenomena preeminently mental, and intimately connected with sensation. The remainder of this essay consists of further remarks on the anatomy, physiology, pathology, and therapeutics of the excito-motor system, and concludes with some observations on the ganglionic system of nerves. In 1841 Dr. Hall published his work on the Dis- eases and Derangements of the Nervous System. In this work I am not aware that any new or addi- tional fact has been stated not mentioned in those already quoted. It includes a reprint of several memoirs read to the Medico-Chirurgical Society. In 1843 a "New Memoir on the Nervous System " appeared, dedicated to Professor Flourens as to one " who has in his responsible office displayed the most candid, impartial, and generous judgment of the works of others." I find it necessary to notice an assertion con- tained in a note to the advertisement of this work Dr. Hall observes :— " My first memoir was entitled, ' On the Reflex Function of the Medulla Oblongata and Medulla Spinalis.' This important function as the nervous agent in all the acts of ingestion and of egestion in the animal economy was previously unknown. It is not mentioned by Whytt, or Prochaska, or any other author; who, however they may cite the term reflex, or detail experiments, or treat of sym-