?22o PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. escaped the notice of some of the ablest ana- tomists, the corpora striata are of good size proportionally to that of the entire brain. Corpora quadrigemina.—The marked con- nection of these gangliform bodies with the optic nerves plainly indicates that they bear some special relation to those nerves, and to the sense of vision; and this indication be- comes more certain when we learn, from com- parative anatomy, that in all vertebrate tribes in which the encephalon is developed, special lobes exist, bearing a similar relation to the optic nerves. When the optic nerves are large, these lobes are large; and in the Pleuronecta, in which the eyes are of unequal size, Gottsche states that the optic lobes are unequal, and are related in size to each other, as the eyeballs are. Still, as Serreshas remarked, the quadrigeminal tubercles probably perform some other office besides that which refers to vision; inasmuch as the absence, or extremely diminutive size, of the optic nerves in some animals (the mole for instance) does not materially affect that of these bodies.* Flourens found that destruction of either of these tubercles on one side was followed by loss of sight of the opposite side, and con- sequently that the removal of both deprived the animal altogether of the power of vision, but did not affect its locomotive or intellectual powers, nor its sensibility, except to light. In these experiments the action of the iris was not impaired if the tubercles were only par- tially removed; as long as any portion of the roots of the optic nerves remained uninjured, the iris continued to respond to the stimulus of light, but the total removal of the tubercles paralysed the irides. If the lobes of the brain and cerebellum were removed, leaving the tubercles untouched, the irides would continue to contract. These experiments leave no room to doubt that the optic tubercles are the ence- phalic recipients of the impressions necessary to vision, which doubtless are simultaneously felt by means of the optic thalami; and that they are the centres of those movements of the iris which contribute largely not only to pro- tect the retina, but likewise to increase the perfection of vision. The optic nerve is at once the nerve of vision, and the excitor of motor impulses which are conveyed to the iris by the third nerve, which takes its origin very near to the optic tubercles. It is interesting to add, that irritation of an optic tubercle on one side causes contraction of both irides:— this is quite in accordance with the well- established fact, that, if light be admitted to one eye so as to cause contraction of its pupil, the other pupil will contract at the same time. So simultaneous is the action of the two cen- tres; so rapid must be the transmission of the stimulus from one side to the other. When the injuries inflicted on these tuber- cles were deep, more or less general convulsive movements were produced; if one tubercle were injured, the opposite side only was so affected. These convulsions were due to the * Vid. Optic Nerves. lesion of the central parts of the medulla ob- longata, with which the optic tubercles are in- timately connected. A remarkable vertiginous movement was likewise caused, the animal turning to the side from which the tubercle had been removed. It does not appear that this rotation could be attributed to any special in- fluence of the medulla oblongata, but rather to a state of vertigo induced by the partial destruc- tion of vision; for Flourens found that the same effects could be produced in pigeons by blindfolding one eye. The movements, how- ever, were not so rapid, nor did they continue so long. And Longet saw the same movements in pigeons in which he had evacuated the hu- mours of one eye."* It may be remarked, that deep injuries to the quadrigeminal tubercles are very likely to affect the only commissural connection between the cerebrum and cerebellum (processus cere- belli ad testes), the integrity of which must doubtless be essentially necessary to ensure harmony of action between these two great nervous centres. There are many instances on record in which blindness was coincident with pathological alteration of structure in one or both quadrige- minal tubercles. In some of the cases where the lesion extended to parts seated beneath the tubercles, disturbed movements were observed, as in the experiments above related. We are ignorant of the object of the exten- sive connections of the optic tracts with the tuber cinereum, the crura cerebri, and the cor- pora geniculata; but these points are highly worthy of future inquiry, especially with re- ference to the office of these last-named bodies, which is at present involved in much obscurity. Many of the fibres of the optic tracts are un- doubtedly commissural between the corres- ponding points of opposite sides, and exist when those which form the optic nerves are deficient. We see, then, in the quadrigeminal tubercles, centres, which, whatever other functions they may perform, have a sufficiently obvious rela- tion to the optic nerves, the eye, and the sense of vision. This is clearly indicated by ana- tomical facts, especially by those of compara- tive anatomy, by the results of experiment, and by the phenomena of disease. These bodies may, therefore, be justly reckoned as special ganglia of vision ; and we are led to seek for similar centres in connection with the other senses. The olfactory processes seem very probably to perform a similar office in reference to the sense of smell. Their structure, their relation to the olfactory nerves, and their direct proportion of bulk to that of these nerves, and to the developement of the olfactory apparatus, place this question beyond all doubt. It is not so easy to determine the special ganglia of hear- ing ; but the olivary bodies, or the small lo- bules connected with the crura cerebelli called by Reil the flocks, may be referred to as bearing a sufficient close anatomical relation to the * Flourens' experiments have been amply con- firmed by those of Hertwig and Longet.