PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 721c " The objection against the mind's produ- cing the vital motions, drawn from their being involuntary, must appear extremely weak ; since there are a variety of motions equally independent upon our will, which yet are cer- tainly owing to the mind. Thus, as had been already observed, the contraction of the pupil from light, and the motions of the body from tickling, or the apprehension of it, undoubt- edly flow from the mind, notwithstanding their being involuntary. The shutting of the eye- lids, when a blow is aimed at the eye, is an- other instance of a motion performed by the mind in spite of the will; for, as the threat- ened blow does not, by any corporeal contact, affect the orbicular muscle of the palpebral, its contraction must necessarily be deduced from the mind, moved to perform this action from the apprehension of something ready to hurt the eye : and if there are some who, by an effort of the will, can restrain this motion of their eyelids, yet this does not proceed so much from the mind's making no attempt, in consequence of the apprehended danger, to close the palpebral, as from the superior eye- lid's being kept up by a strong voluntary con- traction of its levator muscle. We cannot, by an effort of the will, either command or re- strain the erection of the penis ; yet it is evi- dently owing to the mind : for sudden fear, or anything which fixes our attention strongly and all at once, makes this member quickly subside, though it were ever so fully erected. The titillation, therefore, of the vesicula semi- iinles by the semen, lascivious thoughts, and other causes, only produce the erection of the penis, as they necessarily excite the mind to determine the blood in greater quantity into its cells." Whytt's view is best explained in the follow- ing passage of the same work :—" Upon the whole, there seems to be in man one sentient and intelligent principle, which is equally the source of life, sense, and motion, as of reason; and which, from the law of its union with the body, exerts more or less of its power and influence as the different circumstances of the several organs actuated by it may require. That this principle operates upon the body, by the intervention of something in the brain or nerves, is, I think, likewise probable; though, as to its particular nature, I presume not to allow myself in any uncertain conjectures; but, perhaps, by means of this connecting me- dium, the various impressions, made on the several parts of the body, either by internal or external causes, are transmitted to and perceived by the mind ; in consequence of which it may determine the nervous influence variously into different organs, and so become the cause of all the vital and involuntary motions as well as of the animal and voluntary. It seems to act necessarily and as a sentient principle only, when its power is excited in causing the former; but in producing the latter it acts freely, and both as a sentient and rational agent."* * Op. cit., 8vo ed., p. 290. The third fasciculus of the Annotationes Academics of Geo. Prochaska was pub- lished in 1784. It contains the Essay on the Functions of the Nervous System. It is impossible to speak too highly of this profound and accurate dissertation. Although short, it comprehends all the leading facts connected with the working of the nervous system, and affords abundant indications that its author had thought deeply on the subject. I know of no essay, of more modern date, which exhibits the same profound knowledge of nervous pheno- mena, and which is equally comprehensive. How it came to be so long neglected can only be explained by the too general incompetency of physiologists to appreciate his views. Yet his language is remarkably clear and precise. No one can have done more ample justice to his predecessors and contemporaries. His lite- rary research was extensive and accurate, and his historical summary is most interesting and instructive. The attentive perusal of this essay more frequently than once has impressed me strongly with the conviction that Prochaska was a man of the highest mental capacity and of great power of generalization, and I shall rejoice to see his work made easily accessible to all medical readers. A brief summary of this important work will not be out of place here. In the first chapter, the first seven sec- tions are occupied with an historical account of the views of preceding philosophers, begin- ning with Aristotle and Galen. In the eighth section, he remarks, " At length we abandon the Cartesian method of philosophizing in this part of animal physics, and embrace the New- tonian, being persuaded that the slow, nay, the most uncertain road to truth is that by hypo- thesis and conjecture, but that by far the more certain, more excellent, and the shorter way is that, quae a posteriori ad causam ducit. Newton distinguished the inscrutable cause of the phy- sical attractions by the name ' force of attrac- tion ;' he observed its effects, arranged them, and detected the laws of motion, and thus esta- blished a useful doctrine, honourable to human genius. In this way we ought to proceed in the study of the nervous system ; the cause latent in the nervous pulp, which produces certain effects, and which hitherto has not been deter- mined, we shall call vis nervosa ; its observed effects, which are the functions of the nervous system, we shall arrange, and expose their laws, and in this manner we shall be able to construct a true and useful doctrine, qua; arti medicae novam lucem et faciem elegantiorem datura est pro cerlo." Haller, he admits, had previously used the term " vis nervosa" to express the power by which nerves cause muscles to con- tract, but to Unzer he assigns the credit of having thrown the greatest light upon this sub- ject, although he states that to accommodate himself to the times in which he wrote and to make himself more generally understood, he still used the term " animal spirits," although his doctrine was quite independent of such an hypothesis. In the second chapter Prochaska gives an