364 MOLLUSCA. or bluish, and it appears to contain a smaller proportionate quantity of fibrine than that of the Vertebrata. The veins probably fulfil the functions of absorbent vessels. Their muscles are attached to various points of their skin, forming more or less dense and complex tis- sues. Their motions consist of various con- tractions, which produce inflections and pro- longations of their different parts, or a relax- ation of the same, by means of which they creep, swim, and seize upon various objects, just as the form of these parts may permit, but as the limbs are not supported by articu- lated and solid levers they cannot advance rapidly. Nearly all Mollusks have the body enveloped by a duplicature of soft and usually muscular integument, which bears more or less resemblance to a mantle: it is sometimes nar- rowed into a simple disc, sometimes prolonged into one or more tubes, or is extended and divided in the form of fins. The b aked Mollusks are those in which the mantle is simply membranous or fleshy. In most of the species one or more plates, of a substance more or less hard, are developed in its substance, usually in successive layers, which increase in extent as well as in thick- ness as they are successively formed. When this substance remains concealed in the thick- ness of the mantle, it is still customary to style the animals ' Naked Mollusks.' Most com- monly, however, it becomes so much deve- loped that the contracted animal finds shelter beneath or within it, and it is then termed a shell, and the animal is called a Testueeous Mollusk. The mode of generation is too varied in the Mo'lusks to afford any common character to this sub-kingdom : but, being for the most part sluggish and feeble animals, with low and little varied instincts, they are preserved chiefly by their fecundity and vital tenacity. The nervous system of the Mollusks may consist of one or more ganglionic masses ; but these are scattered, often irregularly or unsym- metrically, through the body, and the inter- communicating chords never form a symme- trical knotted pair along the middle line of the ventral surface of the body ; whence the term ' Heterogangliata,' expressive of the charac- teristic condition of the nervous system, with which the unshapely and often unsymmetrical figure of the whole body corresponds. The number of the ganglia follows closely the progressive development of the muscular system: the first is that which is found between the anal and respiratory tubes of the Ascidia?, and which regulates the elongator and sphincter muscles of these tubes. The development of a muscular heart and of a bivalve shell with its adductor muscle is accompanied with the appearance of a second ganglion or centre of the nerves which supply that muscle: a second adductor muscle, with the superaddition of a muscular foot and its retractors, produces an additional ganglion or ganglions, and the com- plication of the nervous system is further aug- mented when the breathing and anal siphons are unusually prolonged, and provided with strongly developed annular contractile muscles and with proportionately powerful retractors. The progressive development of the nervous system may be traced thus far in the tunicated and bivalve Mollusca without its reaching the stage which is marked by the appearance of a distinct supra-cesophageal ganglion or brain . the species have, in fact, no distinct head, and are termed Acephalous Mollusks. The first appearance of this important part with its appendages, which are usually subservient to the organs of special sense, is associated with an accumulation of nervous matter, in the form of a transverse chord, with a ganglion or gang- lions, above the commencement of the oeso- phagus, forming the brain ; whence these Mol- lusks are termed ' Encephalous.' The development of the brain proceeds directly as the organs of the senses increase in number and complication, and consequently reaches its maximum in the higher Cephalo- pods with highly complex eyes and distinct organs of hearing; and in these the brain is protected by a cartilaginous cranium, forming the first representative of the true internal skeleton which is met with in the Invertebrate division of animals, and one of the main organic characters by which the higher Mol- lusks surpass Articulates in the ascent to the Vertebrate type. The nervous system of the Mollusks is re- markable for the peculiar and distinct colour of the ganglions in certain species, as the fresh- water Muscles and Unios ; and for the contrast between the density of the cellular sheath of the nerves and the semifluid pulp which it contains. This structure allows of an artificial injection of the nerves, which has led some anatomists to describe them as parts of an absorbent system. Although the bivalve Mollusks are headles3 and without brain, some of them have mani- fested signs of a perception of light, and in a few species simple ocelli have been detected on the verge of the mantle. In the Encephalous Mollusks the eyes, when present, are small, never exceed two in number, and are usually supported on flexible peduncles or tentacula; but in the Dibran- chiate Cephalopods they are large, always ses- sile, and highly complicated. The organ of hearing is peculiar to the Ce- phalopods in the present division of the animal kingdom. The organ of smell, as a special and cir- cumscribed part, has likewise been recognized only in the highest class : but Cuvier observes, that the skin of the Mollusks so clearly re- sembles in its softness and lubricity a pituitary membrane, that they probably may recognize odours at every point of their external surface. Professor De Blainville conjectures that in the Gastropods the soft extremities of the first pair of cephalic tentacles may be the seat of the organ of smell. An organ of taste has of course been recognized only in the Encephalous Mollusks, in many of which the tongue is large