339 MICROSCOPE. magnifying power is employed; and the strain- ing of the eye, which is occasioned by their very minute aperture. Thus a triplet in our possession, which will show the most difficult test-objects, has a focal distance of only about 3'3th of an inch, and an aperture through which the smallest pin would scarcely pass. But the first of these disadvantages is more apparent than real. The object should be always co- vered with talc, (which may be easily split into lamina; of the ^th of an inch in thickness,) for the purpose of protecting both it and the lens from injury by accidental contact; and the magnifier should not be screwed into the arm which carries it, but loosely fitted, so that, if the observer should happen to bring the arm too near the stage, he may not force down his lens upon the object. As Mr. Holland justly ob- serves, " Should the proximity of the object to the lowest lens of the triplet be urged as a material objection to its usefulness, it may be answered that the whole microscope is a mass of delicacies; consequently, it cannot be al- lowed that a line be arbitrarily drawn, beyond which every thing is to be considered as too delicate." The second of the above objections must be obviated by never continuing the use of deep powers in a simple microscope for any length of time at one sitting, and by taking care to adjust the instrument in such a manner that the head may be as little inclined forwards as possible. The only other form of simple microscope which we shall notice is one commonly known under the name of the Coddington lens. The first idea of it was given by Dr. Wollaston, who proposed to cement together two plano- convex, or hemispherical lenses, by their plane sides, with a stop interposed, the central aper- ture of which should be equal to Jth of the focal length. The great advantage of such a lens is that the oblique pencils pass, like the central ones, at right angles with the surface; and that they are consequently but little subject to aberration. The idea was further improved upon by Mr. Coddington, who pointed out that the same end would be much better an- swered by taking a sphere of glass, and grind- ing away the equatorial parts, the groove being then filled with opaque matter, so as to limit the central aperture. Such a lens gives a large sphere of view, admits a considerable amount of light, and is equally good in all directions; but its powers of definition are by no means equal to those of an achromatic lens, or even of a doublet. This form is very useful, there- fore, as a hand lens, in which a high power is not required, but has no particular advantages for magnifiers of short focus, nor for the object- glasses of a compound microscope.* It may be desirable to mention that a magni- fier, now known under the name of the Stan- hope lens, and much praised by those interested * We think it right to state that many of the magnifiers sold as Coddington lenses are not really (as we have satisfied ourselves) portions of spheres, but are manufactured out of ordinary double-con- vex lenses, and will be destitute, therefore, of many of the above advantages. 162. in its sale, is nothing more than a double con- vex glass, much thicker than ordinary, so that an object in contact with one of its surfaces shall be in focus to the eye placed behind the other. This is an easy method of applying rather a high magnifying power to scales of butterflies' wings and other similar flat and minute objects; but the instrument is totally destitute of value as a means of scientific re- search, and must be regarded as an ingenious philosophical toy. Compound Micro- scope. — The com- pound microscope es- sentially consists, as already stated, of two lenses, which are so disposed that one of them receives the rays ] of light from the object, and forms an image by its refraction of them ; and this image is seen by the eye through the second lens, which acts upon it as a simple mi- croscope. The princi- ple of such a micro- scope will be at once understood from the adjoining diagram (Jig. 162). According to the laws already stated, if the object be at a less distance from the lens than its diameter of cur- vature (supposing it to be a double - convex lens, or twice that dis- tance of a plano-con- vex) the irnage will be larger than the object; and this in proportion as the latter is brought nearer to the principal focus, at which it can give rise to no image, as its rays after refrac- tion become parallel. Hence, by the use of the same object-glass, a considerable variety of power might be ob- tained ; for, if the image be formed near the lens, it will be small: but if . , ,. , , . , , . . , , . A 15, the object, ot which the object be caused to an ,jJfied image is approach it, the image will be thrown to a con- siderable distance, and will be proportionably magnified. The eye- piece would of course require, however, a cor- responding re-adjust- ment; and, in fact, the construction of the whole instrument would need modifica- formed by the object- glass C D, in the con- trary direction, at A' 13', by the convergence of the rays of the several penc ils to a focus. These again diverging are re- ceived by the eye-glass L M, which gives tliem the nearly parallel dir rcction necessary for them to enter the eye, and causes the apparent size of the image to be K. z 2