72lp PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. liave occurred in which sensibility has been impaired or destroyed, while the posterior co- lumns remained perfectly healthy. In a re- markable case related by Dr. Webster, there was complete paralysis of motion in the lower extremities, but sensibility remained ; yet there was total destruction of the posterior columns in the lower part of the cervical region. Dr. Webster did me the favour to allow me to examine the spinal cord in this case, and I was struck with the complete solution of continuity of the posterior columns in the region of the neck: it was impossible in this case that the nervous force could have travelled along the course of these columns, whether from above downwards, or from below upwards. Such a case as this shows distinctly that sensation may be enjoyed in the inferior extremities indepen- dently of the posterior columns, and if it does not prove that these columns are not the ordi- nary channels through which sensitive impres- sions are conveyed to the brain from parts sup- plied by spinal nerves, it at least shows that there must be some other channel besides them for the transmission of sensitive impressions. Other cases to the same purport are on re- cord. Mr. Stanley published an account of a case of this kind in the twenty-third volume of the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. He states, " there was no discoverable impairment of sensation in any part of either limb: on scratching, pricking, and pinching the skin, nowhere was any defect of feeling acknow- ledged by the patient. In the upper limbs there existed no defect, either of motion or sensation." There was inability to expel the urine or retain the faeces. The report of the post-mortem appearances in this case is not quite so exact as might be desired. The pos- terior half of the cord and the posterior co- lumns are spoken of as if synonymous; now it is evident that the posterior half of the cord consists of a great deal more than the posterior columns; it includes the posterior part of the antero-lateral columns. The record of the case states as follows : " The substance of the cord throughout its posterior half or column, and in its entire length, from the pons to its lower end, had undergone the following changes of colour and consistence; it was of a dark brown colour, extremely soft and tenacious. The substance of the cord through its anterior half and entire length exhibited its natural whiteness and firm consistence ; and on making a longi- tudinal section of the cord through its centre, and in the antero-posterior direction, the boun- dary line between the healthy and diseased nervous matter was seen to be most exact: it was a straight and uninterrupted line from the pons to the lower end of the cord. The roots of the spinal nerves were unaltered." Supposing that the posterior columns are the media of sensation to parts supplied by spinal nerves, we can by no means infer that the lesion in this case recorded by Mr. Stanley was sufficient to destroy sensation ; it cannot, how- ever, be conceded that, if this view were correct, such a lesion could exist without im- pairing sensation in some way or other, inas- much as the whole of the posterior columns were involved in a notably diseased condition. The following case is related by Cruveilhier. A young amaurotic girl, paraplegic of move- ment only, died from some unknown cause. The spinal cord presented on its posterior sur- face in its entire length a large reddish-grey (gris-rose) column, formed by the posterior columns. All the rest of the cord was per- fectly healthy. In a case recorded by Dr. Wm. Budd it is stated that the lower extremities were quite deprived of motion, " but with sensation un- affected." The disease was the result of a severe blow on the back from the boom of a ship, which led to a curvature of the spine, formed by prominence of the dorsal vertebrae from the fourth to the ninth inclusive. After death a portion of the cord, about two inches in length, corresponding to the curvature, was found softened in the posterior columns. The tissue was not diffluent, but became flaky and partially dissolved when a small and gentle current of water was poured on it. In this case, no more than in that of Mr. Stanley, the lesion was not enough to destroy sensation, but surely it was sufficient to impair it, if the posterior columns are to be regarded as the channels of sensation.* Series records the case of a woman who had been paraplegic for two months: sensibility was preserved in the lower extremities; the lesion consisted in disease of the posterior columns of the cord below the middle of the dorsal region.f In two cases which occurred in King's Col- lege Hospital under my own care, the promi- nent symptom was impairment of the motor power, without injury to the sensitive; yet the seat of organic lesion in both was in the pos- terior columns of the cord. Nasse,in the paper before referred to, alludes to several cases of the same nature, in which disease affected the posterior columns, but did not impair sensation. Longet, who is a warm advocate for the identity of function between the posterior roots and posterior columns, cites some instances in which total loss of sensibility coexisted with degeneration of the posterior columns as the only lesion: in these cases, however, the pos- terior roots of the nerves were involved in the disease, and their function became impaired or destroyed in consequence. A case of this kind, to be conclusive upon the point in ques- tion, ought to exhibit complete destruction of the posterior columns, or of a considerable portion of them, with perfect integrity of the posterior roots and of the antero-lateral co- lumns. If in such a case there were total loss of sensibility in the parts in nervous communi- cation with the diseased portion of the spinal cord, then, indeed, we would be justified in affirming that the antero-lateral columns took no part in propagating sensitive impressions, and that the loss of sensibility was due to the morbid state of the posterior columns. * Med.-Chirurg. Trans., vol. xxii. t Anat. Comp. riu Cerveau, vol. ii., p. 221.