397 MONOTREMATA. with a smooth and polished surface, and had not the slightest adherence to the uterine pa- rietes. The specimen containing the two ova next in size (fig. 192, c c) was shot in the same locality on the 7th of October. These ova measured each three lines iti diameter, and were situated a little below the middle of the left uterus: they were of a spherical form, but had evidently been slightly compressed in the uterine cavity. They were of a lighter colour than the preceding; a circumstance which was specially evident at the upper part, from the subsidence of the contained vitelline mass. Externally they were smooth and rolled freely out of the position where they were lodged, like those of the preceding specimen. The third specimen, in the uterus of which the largest ovum was contained, was shot on the evening on which the first specimen was obtained. This ovum had the same spherical form, smooth exterior surface, and freedom from connexion with the uterus, as in the pre- ceding; but was of a much lighter colour, owing to the increased quantity of its fluid contents, to which its greater size was chiefly attributable. It measured three lines and a half in diameter, and had been situated in a depression or cell a little below the middle of the left uterus. The lining membrane of the uterus was highly vascular in the recent state in each of the above specimens. In all these ova the contents could be seen, through the cortical or outer membrane, to be of two kinds, viz. a greyish sub-transparent fluid, and a yellowish denser mass, which varied in their relative proportions as above- mentioned, the denser substance always sub- siding to the lowest part of the ovum, which- ever way it was turned. In the largest ovum, the yellow mass or yolk occupied about one-third of its cavity, while in the smallest it constituted four-fifths of the whole mass. The chorion or cortical membrane of these ova (fig. 193, a) offered a moderate degree of resistance when torn open with the forceps, and yielded equally in every direction when separated from the yolk, the rent margins Fie. 193. Uterine Ovum, magnified and dissected, Orn ithorh ynchws. (Owen, Phil. Trans. 1834.) curling inwards like the coat of an hydatid. This membrane is of a dull greyish colour, inclining to brown, slightly transparent, and more polished upon its inner than upon its outer surface : it resembles the cortical mem- brane of the ovum of the Salamander, but is of a more delicate texture. The fluid contents occupied the space between the cortical and vitelline membranes, a situation analogous to that of the albumen in the egg of the fowl, but had not become coagulated by the action of the spirit in which it had been so long im- mersed. The yellow matter, or yolk, was seen to be invested by its proper capsule (fig. 193, b), which, when reflected under the microscope, was found to consist of an extremely thin, smooth, and transparent outer layer, which I regard as the membrana vitelli (fig- 194, a), with a thicker granular membrane immediately lining it, analogous to the blastoderma or ger- minative stratum (fig. 194, b). The contents of the above investments, or Fig. 194. substance of the yolk, consisted of innume- rable minute opaque granules,similar in size and regularity of form to those contained in the ovarian follicles; and with these gra- nules were mingled larger transparent glo- _ . . , . „. u i„ f i tu Portion of the vitelline mem- bulesotoil. 1 here was , J , , . brane ami germinal stra- not the slightest trace turn, Ornithorhynchus. of chalazoe attached to ( Owen,Phil. TransA384.) the vitelline membrane, as from analogy we might have expected, had the ovum been destined to have been perfected by incubation. I was unable to detect any rudiments of the embryo : an opaque streak was discernible on one part of the yolk, but not sufficiently definite to be satisfactorily re- cognised as a cicatricula; it is indeed, proba- ble, from the observation of Lieutenant Maule,* that the ova attain a greater size by the im- bibition of the nutrient material before the lineaments of the foetus become visible. The changes which the impregnated uteri of the Ornithorhynchus had undergone, as com- pared with the same part in the quiescent state, were greater than those which have been ob- served to take place in the Kangaroo. The uterus containing the two smallest sized ova measured seven lines in diameter, but was much firmer and denser than in the unim- pregnated specimens; and having also in- creased in length, was thrown into more abrupt curves on either side of the ovarian ligament. The uterus which had contained the largest ovum measured an inch in diameter; and that containing those of the second size was of * Proceedings of the Zoological Society, 1832. " In the insides of several female platypi which were shot, eggs were found of the size ol a large musket-ball and downwards."