INSTINCT. 20 city. By this extension the intervals between the combs are unavoidably contracted; but in winter well-stored magazines are essential, while from their state ot comparative inactivity spa- cious communications are less necessary. On the return of spring, however, when the cells are wanted for the reception of eggs, the bees contract the elongated cells to their former dimensions, and thus re-establish the just dis- tances between the combs which the care of their brood requires. But this is not all. Not only do they elongate the cells of the old combs when there is an extraordinary harvest of honey, but they actually give to the new cells which they construct on this emergency, a much greater diameter as well as a greater depth. " The queen-bee, in ordinary circumstances, places each egg in the centre of the pyramidal bottom of the cell, where it remains fixed by its natural gluten: but in an experiment of Huber, one whose fecundation had been re- tarded, had the first segments of her abdomen so swelled that she was unable to reach the bottom of the cells. She therefore attached her eggs (which were those of males) to their lower side, two lines from the mouth. As the larva? always pass that state in the place where they are deposited, those hatched from the eggs in question remained in the situation assigned them. But the working bees, as if aware that in these circumstances the cells would be too short to contain the larva? when fully grown, extended their length, even before the eggs were hatched. " The working bees, in closing up the cells containing larva?, invariably give a convex lid to the large cells of drones, and one nearly flat to the smaller cells of workers; but in an ex- periment instituted by Huber to ascertain the influence of the size of the cells on that of the included larva?, he transferred the larva? of workers to the cells of drones. What was the result ? Did the bees still continue blindly to exercise their ordinary instinct? On the con- trary, they now placed a nearly flat lid upon these large cells, as if well aware of their being occupied by a different race of inhabitants." But the most extraordinary of all these varia- tions of the operations of bees are seen in two cases which have been often produced for the sake of experiment, and of which the result appears to have been repeatedly and carefully observed. " If a hive be in possession of a queen duly fertilized, and consequently sure, the next sea- son, of a succession of males, all the drones, towards the approach of winter, are massacred by the workers with the most unrelenting fero- city. This would seem to be an impulse as naturally connected with the organization and very existence of the workers, as .that which leads them to build cells or store up honey. But however certain the doom of the drones if the hive be furnished with a duly fertilized queen, their undisturbed existence through the winter is equally certain if the hive has lost its sovereign, or if her impregnation has been so retarded as to make a succession of males in the spring doubtful; in such a hive the workers do not destroy a single drone, though the hot- test persecution rages in all the hives around them.'' Again, " in a hive which no untoward event has deprived of its queen, the workers take no other active steps in the education of her suc- cessors,—those of which one is to occupy her place when she has flown oft' at the head of a new swarm in spring,—than to prepare a certain number of cells of extraordinary capacity for their reception while in the egg, and to feed them when become grubs with a peculiar food until they have attained maturity. This, there- fore, is their ordinary instinct; and it may hap- pen that the workers of a hive may have no neces- sity, for a long series of successive generations, to exercise any other. But suppose them to lose their queen. Far from sinking into that inac- tive despair which was formerly attributed to them, after the commotion which the rapidly- circulated news of their calamity gave birth to has subsided, they betake themselves with an alacrity from which man, when under misfor- tune, might deign to take a lesson, to the repa- ration of their loss. Several ordinary cells are without delay pulled down and converted into a variable number of royal cells, capacious enough for the education of one or more queen- grubs selected out of the unhoused working grubs—which in this pressing emergency are mercilessly sacrificed—and fed with the appro- priate royal food to maturity. Thus sure of once more acquiring a head, the hive return to their ordinary labours, and in about sixteen days one or more queens are produced, one of which steps into day and assumes the reins of state." There can be no doubt that the perfect order and regularity seen in all the operations of these societies of insects could not be main- tained without some mode of communication among the different individuals concerned in these operations; and it appears distinctly that such means of communication exist, and that it is in consequence of their being exercised, for example, that a swarm of bees, when it leaves a hive, takes the direction to a spot pre- viously fixed on, and carefully examined, by a small number of scouts, as observed by Mr. Knight.* When such facts are duly considered, we cannot be surprised to find so intelligent a na- turalist as Mr. Spence acknowledging that he had at one time arranged them as indications of reason in these animals. But on further consideration, we shall probably see cause to acquiesce in his later and more matured judg- ment, which ascribes them to strictly instinc- tive, although singularly varying propensities; chiefly on two grounds, which exactly corre- spond to what was stated in the beginning of this paper as the most distinctive characters of instinct: 1. that although various contrivances are fallen on by all bees to enable them to con- tinue their usual operations under varying ex- ternal circumstances, yet there is no such variety observed either in the conduct of individuals * Phil. Trans. 1807.