PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 2. A second hypothesis is that which accords with the views of Miiller and many other phy- siologists of the present day, and likewise pro- bably with those of Whytt. It assumes that the fibres of sensation and volition proceed to and from some part or parts of the intracranial nervous mass,—that every nerve-fibre in the body is continued into the brain. Those which are distributed to the trunk and extremities pass along the spinal cord, separating from it with the various roots of the nerves, and in their course within the spine mingling more or less with the vesicular matter of the cord. There are, accord- ing to this hypothesis, no other fibres but these, (save the commissural,) and they are sufficient to manifest the physical as well as the mental acts. Nerves of sensation are capable of ex- citing nerves of motion which are in their vici- nity; and they may produce this effect even when the spinal cord has been severed from the brain, for their relation to the grey matter of the cord is such that their state of excitement is readily conveyed to it. 3. According to a third hypothesis, it is as- sumed that all the spinal and encephalic nerves, of whatever function, are implanted in the grey matter of the segments of the cerebro- spinal centie with which they are severally con- nected, and do not pass beyond them. The several segments of the cerebro-spinal axis are connected with each other through the conti- nuity of the grey matter from one to another, and through the medium of commissural fibres which pass between them. Through these means, motor or sensitive impulses may be propagated from segment to segment; and a stimulus conveyed to any segment from the periphery may either simultaneously affect the brain and cause a sensation, or it may be re- flected upon the motor nerves of that segment and stimulate their muscles to contract. Or both these effects may take place at the same moment, as a result of one and the same sti- mulus. According to this hypothesis, each segment of the cord, so long as il retains its proper commissural connection with the brain (by commissural fibres and continuous grey matter), is part and parcel of the centie of voli- tion as well as of that of sensation, and the mind is as directly associated with each seg- ment of the cord as it is with any portion of the encephalon. Let that commissural con- nection be dissolved, and the mind will imme- diately lose its hold upon the cord; but the various segments of that organ may nevertheless still be acted upon by physical impulses,'and may still continue to evolve the nervous force in connection with the natural changes which may take place within. I am not aware that this view of the me- chanism of the various actions of the nervous system had been ever distinctly enunciated before it had been stated by Mr. Bowman and myself in our work on the Physiological Ana- tomy and Physiology of Man, in 1845."* There is nothing, however, in this hypothesis at variance or inconsistent with the views of * The Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man, by R. B. Todd and Wm. Bowman, vol. i. p. 323. Prochaska ; for this physiologist seems to have held the opinion that the nerves are im- planted in the segment of the cerebro-spinal axis into which they sink, and do not pass beyond it. I shall now examine into the merits of each of these hypotheses, and, first, of the excito- motory hypothesis. It is unnecessary to repeat the objections already stated (p. 721b) to the use of the term excito-motori/. I shall only remark that some of these objections are equally opposed to the hypothesis as to its name. Nevertheless this hypothesis has much to commend it: and not the least argument in its favour is that drawn from the compound nature of spinal nerves, as proved by Bell, in which nerve-fibres of different endowments are bound together in the same sheath. If it be proved (as it has been) that fibres of sensation and of motion may be thus placed in juxtaposition in the same nervous trunk, it seems not an unreasonable conjecture that fibres of other function (e.vcitors and their corresponding mo- tors) might be enclosed in the same sheath with them. Both anatomy and experiment, however, unite to prove the existence of sensitive fibres distinct from motor fibres; they are found separate in the roots of the nerves, and combined in the nervous cords: but neither anatomy nor experiment fa- vours the existence of a distinct series of excitor and of corresponding motor nerves. Anatomical research affords not the slightest indication of such a series of nerves. And experiments on the roots of the nerves, where it might reason- ably be expected that the excitors would be separated from the motors (following the ana- logy of the motor and sensitive fibres), are by no means favourable to the existence of such fibres in the roots. The failure of experi- menters to excite motion by irritation of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves has been already referred to. A new and extensive series of experiments is much needed to settle this question. I would remark that galvanism should not be used in them, as the results of stimulation by that agent are extremely fal- lacious, from its liability to extend beyond the parts included between the electrodes. Other very serious anatomical objections may be urged to this hypothesis. It supposes the existence of two sets of fibres in the spinal cord. Evidence in favour of these is wanting just as much as in favour of those in the roots of the nerves. Many facts favour the conclu- sion that the fibres which constitute the roots of the nerves of any segment of the cerebro-spinal centre are implanted in the grey matter of that segment, and that none of them are continued beyond that segment up into the brain. They penetrate the spinal cord more or less obliquely, and form their connection with the grey matter a little higher up than the point of penetration ; but there is no evidence to show that they assume a completely vertical direction to pass up to the brain. The form and varying dimensions of the spinal cord in its several regions are opposed to this view. If the sensori-volitional fibres are