158 LITE. inactive state, their normal constitution would be soon affected by their proneness to de- composition, and their peculiar properties be consequently lost. Amongst cold-blooded ani- mals, however, we find instances of more com- plete suspension of vital actions, which may even be prolonged for a considerable period. Thus, Spallanzani kept frogs, salamanders, and snakes, in a torpid state, in an ice-house, where they remained three years and a half, and rea- dily revived when again exposed to the influ- ence of a warm atmosphere. Insects, in their pupa state, may be regarded as analogous to plants reduced to bulbs. Although the dura- tion of this torpid condition is ordinarily deter- minate for each species, and although some changes occur during its continuance which scarcely warrant us in characterising the state as one of entire inactivity, there are some in- stances which prove that it may be prolonged for an almost indefinite period, under particular circumstances. The degree of temperature to which pupae are exposed seems to have the same kind of influence over them as on the eggs of insects. Thus Reaumur found that pup<e, which would not naturally have been disclosed until May, might be caused to un- dergo their metamorphosis in a fortnight during the depth of winter, by the influence of artifi- cial heat; and, on the other hand, that their change might be delayed a whole year beyond its usual time, by the prolonged influence of a cold atmosphere. We can scarcely imagine, however, that temperature is the sole agent in accelerating or retarding the final metamor- phosis. If the caterpillar of Papilio Macha- on, one of those which has annually a double brood, becomes a pupa in July, the butterfly will appear in thirteen days ; if not until Sep- tember, it will not make its appearance until the June following, that is, not in less than nine or ten months. Here it is evident that the torpor has been prolonged from some cause in- herent in the system itself, for the purpose of preventing the disclosure of the butterfly at too early a period of the season. A still more cu- rious proof of this tendency to prolonged tor- pidity during the pupa state is the following. If a number of the pupse of the Eriogaster lanestris, a moth whose larvae are common on the blackthorn in June, be selected at the same time, and placed in the same circum- stances, the greater number of them will dis- close the perfect insect in the February follow- ing; some not until the February of the year ensuing; and the remainder not before the same month in the third year. The same has been observed of the Arctea mendica, of which thirty-six pupae, grown from eggs laid by the same parent, produced twelve perfect insects in each of the three following seasons.* The final cause of this curious tendency may be, as sur- mised by Mr. Kirby, to secure the race from being cut off by unfavourable seasons, or by some extraordinary increase of its natural ene- mies. But its efficient cause can only be looked for in some modification of the properties of * Kirby and Spencc's Entomology, vol. iii. p. 266. the organism analogous to that which produces the phenomena of hybernation in other animals. The same periodicity, manifesting itself, not in obedience to a diminished temperature, but at the season of greatest heat, is observed in tro- pical climates. Many tribes of insects in the torrid zone seem to retire to places of retreat during the parching droughts of summer, and make their appearance again during the rainy season, when vegetation is in the highest luxu- riance. We here trace the same beautiful adaptation of the phases of animal and vege- table life as in the former instances; but the efficient cause which induces these changes must be different. Our limits do not allow us to dilate upon one very interesting department of this subject —the prolongation of dormant vitality under particular circumstances in frogs and other reptiles. Many marvellous stories of this kind are on record;—such as the inclosure of these animals in solid blocks of granite or other igneous rocks, which no well-informed person can credit. There are, however, a sufficient number of authentic cases to prove, in the esti- mation of those who have fairly examined them, that toads and other reptiles may be en- closed in masses of rock apparently solid, or in the substance of the trunks of trees, and that they may preserve their vitality under such circumstances for a very long period. In the former instances, it would appear that the ani- mal has fallen into a chink or crevice, which has been gradually filled up by the washing-in of gravel or other materials disposed to soli • dify; and that thus the appearance of a solid mass has been given, when in reality some com- munication has existed between the cavity and the external air. It is by no means impossible, moreover, that these animals might be found imbedded in the sandstones at present in course of formation in many localities; these rocks possessing considerable hardness, but being at the same time sufficiently porous to allow of the slow passage of air through their subslance. Where toads have become im- bedded in crevices of trees, and been sur- rounded by new layers of wood, it is evident that a direct communication with the atmos- phere will probably exist by means of the ori- ginal crevice, although it may be much nar- rowed ; but even if this be not the case, the porosity of the wood will furnish the required condition. Some amount of access of air would seem, from the experiments of M. Ed- wards and Dr. Buckland, to be essential to the prolonged vitality of toads enclosed in solid masses ; and this will probably maintain a very feeble respiratory action upon the blood through the general surface, just sufficient to prevent the decomposition of the body. Vital action cannot, therefore, be regarded as so completely extinct under these circumstances as in some of the cases formerly mentioned, where the ap- plication of Gold has not only completely checked it, but has also done away with the necessity for it, by completely subduing the tendency to decomposition. In the human economy, as in that of other