NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Comparative Anatomy.) 616 raised from the inferior surface of the column in the form of a tough rib- bon. Prom the sides of the column aponeurotic lamina; pass off to form septa of attachment be- tween the muscular bun- dles ; and along the me- sial plane above the co- lumn, a similar lamina separates the superior bun- dles of each side, and by splitting below and run- ning into the sides of the column, forms a fibrous canal for the spinal cord. Foramina exist all along the sides of this canal for the passage of the nerves. A similar septum is situ- ated along the inferior part of the column, from the part where the inferior muscular bundles unite at the anus, to the extremity of the tail. Along the superior edge of the apo- neurotic septum, between the dorsal muscular bun- dles, and stretching from the anterior point of the vertebral column toapoint beyond the anus, and half embedded between the su- perior extremities of the muscles, is a series of closed cells of a flattened cylindrical form, adhering firmly to one another by their bases, so as to pre- sent the appearance of a tube flattened on the sides with septa at regular dis- tances. Each of these cells is full of a trans- parent fluid, in the centre of which is an irregular mass of semi-opaque glo- bules, apparently cells. This series of cylindrical sacs consists of the ru- diments of inter-spinous bones, and probably of fin rays, and is attached be- The nervous system of low to the fibrous inter- Amphioxiis lanceolatus. muscular septa, half CO- ti, a, the spinal cord; vered on each side by the b, the first pair of lateral muscles, and en- nerves ; c, the dorsal; dosed above by lhe te„u_ o, the ventral hranch . r u i- , of the second pair. mentary fold which con- stitutes the dorsal fin. " A similar series of cells, with the same relations, is situated on the ventral surface of the body, and stretches from the spot where the abdominal folds terminate, to a point nearly opposite the termination of the dorsal series. " Nervous system. — The spinal cord is Fig. 350. situated on the upper surface of the chorda dorsalis, enclosed in the canal formed in the manner above described. When the whole length of this canal is displayed by removing the muscles, and then carefully opened, the spinal cord is seen lying in the interior, with nerves passing out from it on each side. It stretches along the whole length of the spine, is acuminated at both ends, and exhibits not the slightest trace of cerebral development. In its middle third, where it is most developed, it has the form of a ribbon, the thickness of which is about one-fourth or one-fifth of its breadth; and along this portion, also, it presents on its upper surface a broad, but shallow groove. The other two-thirds of the cord are not so flat, and are not grooved above, are smaller than the middle third, and taper gradually; the one towards the anterior, the other towards the posterior extremity of the vertebral column. A streak of black pigment runs along the middle of the upper surface of the cord. It is situated in the groove already described, and is in greater abundance anteriorly and pos- teriorly, where the nerves pass off at shorter intervals, than at the middle or broadest part of the organ. From fifty-five to sixty nerves pass off from each side of the cord; but, as the anterior and posterior vertebra are very minute, and run into one another, and as the spinal cord itself almost disappears at the two extremities, it is impossible to ascertain the exact number, either of vertebra or of spinal nerves. These nerves are not connected to the spinal marrow by double roots, but are inserted at once into its edges in the form of simple cords. " The nerves pass out of the intervertebral foramina of the membranous spinal canal, divide into two sets of branches, one of which run up between the dorsal muscular bundles (dorsal branches); the other (ventral branches) run obliquely downwards and backwards on the surface of the fibrous sheath of the vertebral column ; attach themselves to the antero-pos- terior aspect of each of the inferior muscular bundles, and may be distinctly traced beyond the extremity of each bundle. When an entire animal is examined by transmitted light, and a sufficient magnifying power, the anterior extre- mity of the spinal cord is observed, as before mentioned, to terminate in a minute filament above the anterior extremity of the vertebral column. The first pair of nerves is excessively minute, and passes into the membranous parts at the anterior superior angle of the mouth. The second pair is considerably larger, and, like the first pair, passes out of the canal in front of the anterior muscular bundle. The second pair immediately sends a considerable branch (corresponding to the dorsal branches of the other nerves) upwards and backwards, along the anterior edge of the first dorsal mus- cular bundle. This branch joins the dorsal branch of the third pair, and, passing on, joins a considerable number of these in succession, and at last becomes too minute to be traced farther. After sending off this dorsal branch, the second pair passes downwards and back-