199 ANIMAL LUMINOUSNESS. spectators, yet there was not one on board who did not feel some degree of them ; and all im- puted them to the effect of the light proceeding from the surface of the ocean. Mr. Henderson remarks : " For my own part, the headach, &c. which followed immediately my looking at the water, was particularly severe, nor did it go off until morning. The effects I experienced were like those produced by smoking too much tobacco."* • There have been recorded some accounts of very intense light produced over a great extent of the ocean's surface by luminous animals, but it does not appear that any other voyagers have experienced physical effects from the light such as are described by Mr. Henderson. The great intensity with which it is occasionally produced by marine animals, however, is well illustrated by the descriptions that are given of the moral emotions with which it inspires the beholders. Witness, for instance, Mr.Bonnycastle'sdescrip- tion of a scene which he met with in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, (7th Sept. 1826.) While it was very dark, a brilliant light, like that of the Aurora, was seen to shoot suddenly from the sea, in a particular quarter. It spread thence over the whole surface of the water between the two shores of the Gulf; and shortly there was pre- sented " one blazing sheet of awful and most brilliant light." " Long tortuous lines of light showed many large fishes darting about as if in consternation at the scene." The light was suf- ficient to enable one to see the most minute objects on the ship's deck. On drawing up a bucketful of the water, and stirring it with the hand, it presented "one mass of light, not in sparkles as usual, but in actual coruscations."f Messrs. Quoy and Gaimard state that in handling luminous marine animals while alive, they have always been sensible of an odour pro- ceeding from them similar to that which is per- ceived around a highly charged electrical appa- ratus. The only observation with which we are ac- quainted that seems to indicate the evolution of heat in connexion with the light of animals, is that reported by Macartney, who states that he found the thermometer raised by two or three degrees when placed in contact with a group of living glow-worms shining, or even with their light-giving sacs cut off. The repetition of this experiment, however, has not produced the same result in the hands of others : they saw no rise of the thermometer. III. Circumstances in which light is given out, and by which its intensity is affected.— It is not known whether there be any lumi- nous animals that give out light in all circum- stances, and at every period of their existence, in their natural situations. So far as observa- tion extends, certain mollusca, and some of the species of elater appear to shine without inter- mission. But most of the other light-giving animals with which we are acquainted use their peculiar function only occasionally, and that, for the most part, under some kind of excite- ment or irritation, natural or artificial. In the absence of more direct means of investigation, we may, perhaps, attain to some measure of acquaintance with the nature and analogies of animal light by inquiring into those sources of irritation under which it is given out. Here, however, we are met by the difficulty of finding contradictory statements of facts made by dif- ferent observers. So that our exact knowledge on the subject is still insufficient to admit of any satisfactory conclusions being drawn. What is known on this point may be conveni- ently considered under thetwo following heads. I. Circumstances essentially connected with the state of nature in which the animals are placed when they give out light. II. Circumstances artificially produced -af- fecting the emission of light. I. Natural circumstances in which light is emitted by living animals. The luminousness of animals in their natural state is affected by, 1. Changes in the state of the medium in which they live, whether air or water, in regard to its temperature and electricity. 2. By solar light. 3. By abrupt collision with other bodies. 4. By loud noises. 5. By the internal move- ments of the animals themselves, amongst which may be included the exercise of the ani- mal's will. 1. Temperature, $c.—By far the greater number of luminous animals with which we are acquainted are natives of warm climates ; but those inhabiting the ocean are seen in almost all latitudes, even in the coldest; al- though in these they are not so numerous, and give less light. No aerial insects give out light, in ordinary circumstances, excepting at a temperature of about 50° Fahr. and upwards ; and the higher the natural temperature, the brighter is the light emitted. In temperate climates the Lampyrida shine only in summer and autumn. L. noctiluca appears in this country between June and Sep- tember; L. splendidula, in Germany, is lumi- nous in May; and L. hemiptera so early as in the end of April. The light of pholas dactylus is strongest in summer; and that of marine animals in ge- neral is increased before storms. 2. Solar light.—It is said that Scolopendra does not shine at night excepting it has been exposed during the day to solar light. A short time of exposure to the sun's rays seems to be sufficient to refresh its luminous power, as (like all other light-giving animals) it secretes itself as much as possible during the day. It is stated by Burmeister,* with regard to the Lam- pyris Italica, that if it be kept some days in the dark it entirely loses its luminousness, but regains it on being again placed in the sunshine. 3. Lunar light.—Macartney remarked that luminous medusa generally retreat from the surface of the water at moon-rise. 4. Abrupt collision with other bodies.— Marine luminous animals very readily emi their light on being struck by any moving body; so that one of the most commonly observed phenomena connected with this subject is the * Trans. Med. and Phys. Soc. of Calcutta, i. 107. * Manual of Entomology, transl. by Shuckhard, t Trans, of Lit. and Hist, Soc, of Quebec. p. 494,