Anatomy. The Encepiialon.) 679 NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human allongee, bulbe ruchidien. Germ, das Verlan- gerte Mark. Ital. midollo allungato.)—We begin with the description of this segment be- cause of its immediate connection with the spinal cord, for it is plain, since this is the connecting link between that centre and the intra-cranial mass, that whatever influence the latter may exercise upon the former, must be conveyed or propagated by the medulla ob- longata. It is proper to notice that the term medulla oblongata has not been employed in a uniform sense by all anatomists. Willis and Vieussens comprehended under this title all the parts from the corpora striata and optic thalami (both included) down to the commencement of the spinal cord.* The same signification was adopted by the writers who immediately followed these great anatomists. Winslow con- siders the medulla oblongata as " one middle medullary basis common to both cerebrum and cerebellum, by the reciprocal continuity of their medullary substances." f The crura, or pedunculi cerebri, constitute its anterior part: these seem to be lost in the corpora striata, as Winslow states, and therefore they are looked upon as the peduncles of the cerebrum. Its posterior portion is called the extremity or cauda of the medulla oblongata (queue de la moelle allongee). It is to this latter portion that Haller restricted the term medulla oblongata, and most modern anatomists follow his example. Rolando, however, still applies the term in its more extended sense. In the present article, we adopt the phrase- ology of Haller as far as regards the term me- dulla oblongata. It seems to form an upper enlarged portion of the medulla spinalis, to which it stands in somewhat the same relation as the capital to the shaft of a column. Its superior limit is indicated by the posterior edge of the pons Varolii; its inferior is denoted by a horizon- tal plane extended between the occipital foramen and the first vertebra. A more natural line of demarcation, however, between this part and the medulla spinalis may be found in certain decussating fibres which are seen crossing the anterior median fissure of the former at its infe- rior extremity. No such limit as this, however, is found on the posterior surface (fig. 383). The medulla oblongata has somewhat of a conical shape, its base being situate above at the posterior margin of the pons. It is slightly flattened on both anterior and posterior sur- faces, more so on the latter than on the former. The medulla oblongata admits of the same pri- mary subdivision as the medulla spinal is, namely, into two equal and symmetrical portions sepa- rated from each other by an anterior and a poste- rior median fissure. The former is wide but not of great depth. It is occupied by a fold of pia mater. Its floor is formed by a layer of fibrous matter which has the same cribriform appear- ance as that of the anterior spinal fissure. These fibres are commissural, connecting the- * See the quotation from the English edition of Willis, at p. 609. t Winslow's Anatomy, translated by Douglas, vol. ii. p. 3lti. Edin. 1763. Fig. 383. \Eig J 0 hth pair f nerves. Anterior view of the medulla oblongata and pints Varolii. (After Arnold.J a, anterior extremity of the pons. p, anterior pyramids. d, decussating fibres of anterior pyramids. o, olivary bodies. A, arciform fibres. D, portio dura 1 Seventh pair I port.o intermedia of Wnsberg > q( M, portio mollis (i, glosso-pharyngcal norvc V, par vagum S, spinal accessory two portions of the medulla oblongata. The posterior fissure is very deep and narrow. It is not limited in front by a grey commissure as the posterior spinal fissure is, but by the posterior surface of the white commissure just described. A single layer of the pia mater passes into it. The continuity of the anterior fissure of the me- dulla oblongata and of that of the spinal cord is interrupted by the decussating fibres of the py- ramids, (Jig. 383, d,) but the posterior fissures are distinctly continuous with each other. On either side of the median plane there are indications on the surface of the medulla ob- longata, which suggest a subdivision of each half of the organ into four columns of nervous matter, through the medium of which it forms its connection with certain parts of the cere- brum and cerebellum on the one hand, and of the spinal cord on the other. These columns are the anterior pyramidal, the olivary, the restiform, and the posterior pyramidal. The anterior pyramidal columns, or anterior pyramids, (Jigs. 383, 384, 385, p,) are two prismatic bundles of fibrous matter which extend between the antero-lateral columns of the spinal cord and the lateral hemispheres of the brain. In the medulla oblongata each of these columns forms a compact body, which, when cut transversely, exhibits a tri- angular outline in its central portion, but that of a cylinder at either extremity. Each pyramid is limited on the outside by a superficial groove, which separates it from the olivary column, and on the inside by the anterior median fis-