MUSCULAR MOTION. 521 description that though contractility remained, it was diminished proportionally to the wasting, in the limbs that had not been exercised. The results of this admirably devised experi- ment cannot possibly be reconciled with the opinion that the spinal cord has any necessary or immediate influence in conferring contracti- lity on muscles—that it is the source whence that property is derived. On the contrary, they show in a manner that admits of no dispute that both contractility and nutrition have been preserved together by the continued activity of the property existing in the fully developed organ at the period when the experiment was begun ; and hence it is plain, and conformable to all analogy, that contractility is a property depending for its integrity on a healthy state of nutrition, which in its turn requires for its support the due exercise of the property it confers. It might, perhaps, be argued by one dis- posed to uphold the electrical hypothesis of the nervous influence and muscular power, that in the foregoing experiments the galvanism supplied the place of the intercepted nervous communication, by directly furnishing the muscles with the endowment of contractility; and it is not easy to meet the objection by any decided proof to the contrary. It would be very difficult to induce oft-repeated contractions in a paralysed muscle by any other than elec- trical agency; but the refutation of this view will be found in the general arguments against the identity of the nervous influence with any form of electricity. Viewed by the light of this and other allied experiments, the variation found in the state of nutrition of paralyzed limbs is easily accounted for. In cerebral paralysis the muscles are still subject to contraction in obedience to reflected stimuli through the spinal cord, while in the complete spinal palsy and that arising from disease of the nerves, they are never excited to action; whence their firmness in the former compared with their impoverishment in the latter case. In the paralysis of the lower limbs so graphically described by Pott, and resulting from disease propagated to the cord from the vertebrae, the early symptoms are those of irritation, and consist rather of irregular con- tractions, probably in part reflex, and which the patient is unable to control, than of any diminution of actual power in the limbs; and it is constantly remarked that in this stage there is no loss of size in the affected parts, but rather that in the midst of a general emaciation consequent on the patient's confinement, these limbs retain their fullness, and even appear hypertrophied. Should the malady advance to disorganization of the cord, (he muscles cease to be excited. They become dead to all stimuli except such as are topically applied, and being never so stimulated, soon become flabby and wasted. Thus it would appear that the spinal cord in cerebral paralysis serves to keep up contractility in the muscles, not by supplying them with it, as from a source, but by exhaust- ing them through the contractions it excites. It is not a charger but an exhauster through its nerves; and as exhaustion alternating with re- accumulation is necessary for healthy nutrition, and healthy nutrition induces contractility, it becomes in such cases an important though indirect agent in the maintenance of that pro- perty in the muscles. There can be little doubt that if muscles completely cut off from the nervous centres were submitted to galvanic agency at frequent intervals, they would not decrease in size, and might, if already atrophied, be even augmented in bulk and power ; and perhaps some of the vaunted successes obtained by galvanism and electricity may be explained in this manner. There appears to be no argument nor esta- blished fact on the other side which invalidates the experiment of Dr. Reid, or which does not admit of being explained on the ground which that experiment substantiates; and the whole question is still further cleared by the singular circumstance that has been often adduced, that foetuses born without brain or cord may have their muscular system developed and active. If, to what has now been advanced, there be added the evidence before adduced, that this is a property inherent in the very structure of muscle, and that it is capable of being exerted therein independently of all communi- cation with other tissues, it will probably no longer remain doubtful that it is a property belonging to muscle as a tissue, and that it only requires for its perfection that nutrition should be peifeet. Whatever interrupts nutri- tion interferes with it, and it matters little whether such interruption arise from the want of its own exercise or from deficiency of arterial supply, arising from causes either local or general. Inertness of a muscle, whether the consequence of diseased nerves or otherwise, will be attended with more or less atrophy and weakness, according to its degree, and to that alone. For full information concerning the varieties in the intensity of this power, and in its dura- bility in muscles after systemic death or after their removal from connexion with the nervous and vascular systems, the refder is referred to the article Irritability. I would merely remark in corroboration of the views there maintained, that in the animal series the size of the elementary fibres and the consequent amount of their vascular supply, independently of the more or less arterial quality of the blood, is accurately proportioned to their irritability. Thus Biids, whose irrita- bility is most exalted and most evanescent, have the smallest fibres and the most richly supplied with blood, while Reptiles, Fish, and Crustacea, in which the irritability is most enduring, have fibres of large dimensions and provided with a vascular web of small com- parative size (Jig. 286, art. Muscle). The same is true as regards the heart compared with the voluntary muscles. b. Of the stimuli of muscle.—The stimuli which induce contraction have been classed into remote and immediate. Properly speaking, the remote stimuli are stimuli to the nerves and not to the muscles : they cause a change in the v.