72'2p PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. auditory nerve to justify our regarding either of them as well calculated to perform this func- tion. And, with respect to touch, the ganglia on the posterior roots of the spinal and the fifth nerves may perhaps be considered in the same light; for this sense being diffused so universally, in various degrees, over the whole surface of the body, and being seated in a great number of different nerves, would need ganglia in connection with all those nerves which are adapted to the reception of tactile impressions. The analogous sense of taste has its ganglia in those of the glosso-pharyngeal and the fifth.* The upper and posterior part of the mesoce- phale has already been referred to, as being most probably that part of the brain which is most directly influenced by emotional excite- ment. Dr. Carpenter appears to localize the seat of emotional influence more specially in the corpora quadrigemina, and refers to certain fibres, which he considers terminate in those bodies, as channels of emotional impulses. Although I am compelled to differ from this able writer in this limitation of the centre of emotion (so to speak), and am far from admit- ting the existence of a distinct series of fibres for emotional acts, I nevertheless think that the arguments he advances are most applicable to that view which refers the influence of emotion to the grey matter of this entire region, which is brought into connection with the spinal cord by the fibres of the anterior pyramids, as well as probably through the continuity of the olivary columns and the posterior horns of the spinal grey matter. Every one has experienced in his own person how the emotions of the mind, whether excited by a passing thought, or through the external senses, may occasion not only involuntary movements, but subjective sensations. The thrill which is felt throughout the entire frame when a feeling of horror or of joy is excited, or the involuntary shudder which the idea of im- minent danger or of some serious hazard gives rise to, are phenomena of sensation and motion excited by emotion. The nerves which take their origin from the medulla oblongata, meso- cephale, or crura cerebri, are especially apt to be affected by emotions. The choking sensa- tion which accompanies grief is entirely refer- able to the pharyngeal branches of the glosso- pharyngeal and vagi nerves, which come from the olivary columns. The flow of tears which the sudden occurrence of joy or sorrow is apt to induce may be attributed to the influence of the fifth nerve, which is also implanted in the olivary columns, upon the lachrymal gland; or of the fourth nerve, which anastomoses with the lachrymal branch of the fifth. The more * It may be urged against this conjecture respect- ing the functions of the ganglia of the spinal nerves and the fifth, that the analogy between these bodies and the quadrigemina] tubercles is incomplete, in- asmuch as the optic nerves are probably implanted in the latter, but the nerves of touch merely pass llirimyli the former. But, in truth, we know so little of the positive relation of the nerves in ques- tion to the ganglia, that no argument, cither for or against the ahovc view, can rest upon such imper- fect information. violent expressions of grief, sobbing, crying, denote an excited state of the whole centre of emotion, involving all the nerves which have connection with it, the portio dura, the fifth, the vagus, and glosso-pharyngeal; and even the respiratory nerves, which take their origin from the spinal cord, as the phrenic, spinal accessory, &c. And laughter, " holding both his sides," causes an analogous excitation of the same parts of the central organ and of the same nerves. The very different effect pro- duced by the excitement of the same parts must be attributed to the different nature of the mental stimulus. As the passing thought—the change wrought during the exercise of the intellect—may excite the centre of emotion, so this latter may exert its influence upon the general tenor of the mind, and give to all our thoughts the tinge of mirth or sadness, of hope or despondency, as one or the other may prevail. We say of one man, that he is constitutionally morose ; of a second, that he is naturally gay and mirthful; and of a third, that he is a nervous man, and that he is never likely to be otherwise. One man allows his feelings to hurry him on to actions which his intellect condemns ; whilst another has no difficulty in keeping all his feelings in entire subjection to his judgment. " Of two indivi- duals with differently constituted minds," re- marks Dr. Carpenter, " one shall judge of everything through the medium of a gloomy morose temper, which, like a darkened glass, represents to his judgment the whole world in league to injure him ; and all his determina- tions, being based upon this erroneous view, exhibit the indications of it in his actions, which are themselves, nevertheless, of an en- tirely voluntary character. On the other hand, a person of a cheerful, benevolent disposition, looks at the world around as through a Claude- Lorraine glass, seeing everything in its brightest and sunniest aspect, and, with intellectual fa- culties precisely similar to those of the former individual, he will come to opposite conclu- sions : because the materials which form the basis of his judgment are submitted to it in a very different form."* Such examples abun- dantly illustrate the important share which the emotions take in the formation and developc- ment of character, and how all things presented to the mind through the senses may take their hue from the prevailing state of the feelings. If a certain part of the brain be associated with emotion, it is plain that that part must be in intimate connection with the seat of change in the operations of the intellect, in order that each may affect the other; that the former may prompt the latter, or the latter excite or hold in cheek the former. And this association of the emotions with a certain portion of the brain explains the influence of natural temperament, and of varying stales of the physical health, upon the moral and intellectual condition of individuals. We may gather from it how necessary it is to a well-regulated mind that we should attend not to mental culture only, * Carpenter's Physiology.