368 MONOTREMATA. world more strongly towards their remarkable peculiarities and deviations from the ordinary structure of the Mammalia. In these investiga- tions the author having brought to light nume- rous instances of mutual affinity, before con- cealed under very dissimilar exteriors, grouped the two animals together under the same generic appellation, adopting that of Ornithorhynchus, proposed by Blumenbach. He likewise ex- pressed his opinion that they differed consider- ably in their mode of generation from the true Mammalia, on the ground of the peculiarities of the organs themselves, and on the absence of nipples in both species, and especially in the female of the Ornit/wr/iyiiclnis paradoxus. The opinion of Sir Everard Home was soon after adopted by Professor Geoffroy St. Hilaire, who, in the Bulletin des Sciences Philomathiques, (torn, iii.), constituted a new order for these animals under the term ' Monotremata;' having been led to believe, from an imperfect dissec- tion, that the genital products of both sexes as well as the urine and excrement, were voided by a single common outlet. Concluding, also, by inference that the mammary glands as well as nipples were wanting, and strengthened in his belief of the oviparous nature of the Mono- tremata by some accounts from New South Wales respecting the discovery of the eggs of the Ornithorhynchus,* he subsequently sepa- rated the Monotremata altogether from the Mammalia, and characterized them as a class intermediate to Mammalia, Birds, and Reptiles. This mode of viewing the Monotremata was not, however, generally assented to. The Baron Cuvier, who in one of his earliest works * had separated the Mi/rmecophaga aculeata of Shaw from the true Anteaters under the generic term ' Echidna,' and who afterwards made con- siderable additions to its anatomical history, as well as to that of the Ornithorhynchus para- doxus, in the Lecons d'Anatomie Comparee, whilst he adopted the collective term ' Mono- tremata,' admitted it in the' Regne Animal' as indicative only of a tribe or family in his order Edentata. Spix, Oken, and De Blainville more decidedly opposed the opinion of Geof- froy, and the latter naturalist in an express dis- sertation on the place which the Ornithorhyn- chus and Echidna ought to hold in the animal kingdom, after adducing the numerous instances in which the structure of the Monotremes agrees with that of the true Mammals, ex- presses his opinion that the mammary organs will ultimately be detected, and considers the animals themselves as most closely allied to the Marsupial order. The exact position of the Monotremata, their natural affinities, and the value of the group, could, however, be only a matter of speculation before their organization, and especially their cerebral structure, had been thoroughly eluci- dated ; the consideration of these points will therefore be resumed after the requisite anato- mical and physiological details have been given, for a knowledge of which, as regards the Orni- thorhynchus, science is chiefly indebted to the celebrated Meckel.f Fig. 168. Skeleton of the Echidna Hystrix. (Pander and D'Alton, corrected from Nature.) Osteology. Of the skull.—The skull in both genera of Monotremata is long and depressed, but is cha- racterized by a relatively larger cranium in pro- portion to the face than in the Marsupials. The parietes of the expanded cerebral cavity are rounded, and their outer surface is smooth. These characters are most conspicuous in the Echidna, in which the jaws are slender, elon- gated, and gradually diminish forwards to an * See Linn. Trans, xiii. p. 621. obtuse point, so that the whole skull resembles the half of a pear split lengthwise. The facial angle of the Echidna is 36°, that of the Orni- thorhynchus 20°, being almost the lowest in the mammiferous class. The cranial bones and their constituent pieces continue longer dis- tinct in the Echidna than in the Ornithorhyn- chus ; and their relative position, their con- * Tableau Elementaire de l'Histoire Nat. 1797. t See his beautiful Monograph, " Ornithorhynchi Paradox! Deseriptio Analomica," folio, 1826.