ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 48 bursa behind its ligament. It has been said above that besides its ginglymoid motion, the knee-joint has a slight arthrodial motion in the bent position : this is strictly a rotation of the tibia on its axis, and the effect is to point the toes more or less to the outer side, rotation in- wardly to any great extent being prevented by the crucial ligaments. During this movement of rotation, the inner articulating surface on the head of the tibia advances forwards, while at the same time the outer one recedes; the lateral ligaments allow of this motion, in con- sequence of their inferior attachments being a good deal below the margin of the joint; and the crucial ligaments permit the successive, though not the simultaneous, advance or re- cession of the cavities on the head of the tibia. In all positions of the joint the arrangement is such that the attempt to thrust forwards the whole head of the tibia is resisted by the ante- rior crucial ligament, whilst the posterior pre- vents it from being driven backward? The * [The following experiments, which may easily be tried, illustrate the respective offices of the se- veral ligaments. If the external fibrous investment of the joint be completely removed, taking care that the lateral and crucial ligaments shall be free from injury, the motions of the joint will be in no degree af- fected ; but if the opposite experiment be tried, and the lateral and crucial ligaments be cut, leav- ing the external fibrous investment uninjured, excepting a small hole made for getting at the liga- ments, it will be found that the integrity of the joint is completely destroyed, the bones are but loosely connected to each other, their apposition is destroyed, and they move about indifferently in every direction. Again, if after dissecting off the external fibrous investment both crucial ligaments be cut, leaving the lateral ligaments as the only bonds of con- nection between the two bones, it is found that during extension, the fixedness of the joint is un- impaired, but if flexion be made gradually, the bones becomes less in apposition and more move- able, and in the completely bent state of the limb, they become quite loosely connected and may rea- dily be moved from side to side, and the only limit to flexion is from the tibia coming against the femur. If the lateral ligaments be cut, leaving the cru- cial uninjured, the bones remain firmly connected when the joint is in the state of complete flexion, and the crucial ligaments still, as in the natural state, oppose any further flexion. In the gradual diminution of the flexion, the junction of the bones becomes less complete, and when the extension has been carried to its full extent, the bones may be separated from each other, and admit of lateral motion ; and if the joint be held up so as to allow the tibia to hang from it, the foot will become everted by its own weight, and the two crucial liga- ments, instead of their crossed and oblique position, will assume a parallel and vertical direction. These experiments are described by Weber, but there are few anatomists in this country, for many years back, who have not frequently tried them. The office of the semilunar cartilages is three- fold : 1. filling up the empty space which the arti- cular surfaces leave around their point of contact, they distribute the pressure over a greater surface ; 2. they serve to distribute the tension of the liga- ments in the movements of the joint more uni- formly, and thereby to oppose any jarring of the bones against each other; and, thirdly, they deaden the vibrations, which in the various movements of mucous ligament and fatty body of the joint change their situation in some degree during its motions and may serve to fill spaces which which would otherwise be left vacant: the idea that they are peculiarly concerned in secreting the synovia has been satisfactorily refuted un- der "Articulation." The bursa; in the neighbourhood of the knee- joint are numerous and not unimportant, from the circumstance that some of them often open into the joint itself. In the layers of fascia anterior to the patella, one or more exist, im- perfectly formed and very liable to inflame and suppurate. The situations in which the more perfect specimens are found are as follow, viz. behind the ligament of the patella; between the cruralis and fore-part of the os femoris; beneath the internal lateral ligament; at the insertion of the semitendinosus, gracilis, and sartorius ; underneath each head of the gemel- lus; and around the tendons of the semi-mem- branosus and popliteus respectively; the last- named bursa is continued down some distance between the popliteus and the tibia, and it often communicates below with the superior tibio-fibular articulation, as well as with the knee-joint above. This joint is supplied with blood from the popliteal artery by five different branches, viz. two superior articular, which wind round the lower part of the os femoris; one mid- dle articular which passes through the posterior ligament to the central parts of the joint; and two inferior articular, which take their course round the head of the tibia, and anastomose freely with each other, and with the two upper; the returning veins go to the popliteal. The comparative anatomy of the knee-joint gives for the most part the same essential struc- ture as we have described in man, though va- riously modified. In most animals, when in a standing pos- ture, the knee maintains habitually a state of flexion, and this arrangement conduces much to fleetness and agility of motion. In the ele- phant, however, the bones of the hind leg form an upright pillar of support, and the knee is ex- tended as in the human subject. The elephant also resembles man in the circumstance of the knee being brought to the ground in kneeling; whereas, in most genera, the true knee is placed much nearer to the body of the animal. (Alfred Higginson.) KNEE-JOINT, ABNORMAL CONDITIONS of.-—The abnormal conditions of the knee- joint may be arranged under those which result from disease and accident. The deviations oc- casionally met with as the consequence of con- genital malformation are fortunately rare. Disease.—The abnormal appearances in the knee-joint resulting from disease are those which spring from some specific irritation, such as struma, gout, rheumatism, syphilis, or malig- nant disease, or from direct violence. Most of these irritations affect all the structures of the the limbs, especially in standing, walking, or run- ning, are propagated along the bones.—VideWeber, Meihanik, &c. p. 193. Ed.J