19 INSTINCT. but not to leave room for objection, 1 shall regard them as the result of one only: yet the operations of polishing the interior of the cells, and soldering their angles and orifices with propolis, which are sometimes not under- taken for weeks after the cells are built; and the obscure but still more curious one of var- nishing them with the yellow tinge observable in old combs, seem clearly referable to at least two distinct instincts. " In their out-of-door operations several dis- tinct instincts are concerned. By one they are led to extract honey from the nectaries of flowers; by another to collect pollen after a process involving very complicated manipu- lations, and requiring a singular apparatus of brushes and baskets ; and that must surely be considered a third which so remarkably and beneficially restricts each gathering to the same plant. It is clearly a distinct instinct which inspires bees with such dread of rain, that even if a cloud pass before the sun, they return to the hive in the greatest haste. " Several distinct instincts, again, are called into action in the important business of feeding' the young brood. One teaches them to swal- low pollen, not to satisfy the calls of hunger, but that it may undergo in their stomach an elaboration fitting it for the food of the grubs ; and another to regurgitate it when duly con- cocted, and to administer it to their charge, proportioning the supply to the age and con- dition of the recipients. A third informs them when the young grubs have attained their full growth, and directs them to cover their cells with a waxen lid, convex in the male cells, but nearly flat in those of workers, and by a fourth, as soon as the young bees have burst into day, they are impelled to clean out the deserted tenements and make them ready for new oc- cupants. " Numerous as are the instincts already mentioned, the list must yet include those connected with that mysterious principle which binds the working bees of a hive to their queen :—the singular imprisonment in which they retain the young queens that are to lead off a swarm, until their wings be sufficiently expanded to enable them to fly the moment they are at liberty, gradually paring away the waxen wall that confines them to an extreme thinness, and only suffering it to be broken down at the precise moment required;—the attention with which in these circumstances they feed the imprisoned queen by frequently putting honey on her proboscis, protruded from a small orifice in the lid of her cell;—the watchfulness with which, when at the period of swarming more queens than one are re- quired, they place a guard over the cells of those undisclosed, to preserve them from the jealous fury of their excluded rivals;—the exquisite calculation with which they inva- riably release the oldest queens the first from their confinement;—the singular love of mo- narchical dominion, by which, when two queens in other circumstances are produced, they are led to impel them to combat until one is de- stroyed ;—the ardent devotion which binds them to the fate and fortune of the survivor;— the distraction which they manifest at her loss, and their resolute determination not to accept of any stranger until an interval has elapsed sufficiently long to allow of no chance of the return of their rightful sovereign ;—and (to omit a further enumeration) the obedience which in the utmost noise and confusion they shew to her well-known hum. " I have now instanced at least thirty dis- tinct instincts with which every individual of the nurses amongst the working-bees is en- dowed ; and if to the account be added their care to carry from the hive the dead bodies of any of the community; their pertinacity in their battles, in directing their sting at those parts only of the bodies of their adversaries which are penetrable by it; their annual autum- nal murder of the drones, &c. &c.—it is cer- tain that this number might be very consider- ably increased, perhaps doubled."* To these instincts, in the case of some species of ants we shall certainly have to add those by which they are guided in carrying on a regular system of warfare, either with other hives of the same species or with other species, in subjuga- ting and bringing up as workers or slaves those that they have subdued, and likewise in sub- jecting to their dominion tribes of Aphides.f But all this becomes still more surprising, because more at variance with the usual in- stincts of animals, when we consider the power of adapting their operations to changes in their circumstances, which such associations of in- sects possess. " It is," says Mr. Spence, " in the deviations of the instincts of insects and their accommoda- tion to circumstances, that the exquisiteness of these faculties is most decidedly manifested. The instincts of the larger animals seem capable of but slight modification. They are either ex- ercised in their full extent or not at all. A bird, when its nest is pulled out of a hush, though it should be laid uninjured close by, never attempts to replace it in its situation ; it contents itself with building another. But in- sects in similar contingencies often exhibit the most ingenious resources, their instincts surpri- singly accommodating themselves to the new circumstances in which they are placed, in a manner more wonderful and incomprehensible than the existence of the faculties themselves." This observation we support by various in- stances taken from the history of different in- sects ; but the most extraordinary are from the societies of insects of which we now speak ; and of these the following are only a specimen. " The combs of bees are always at an uniform distance from each other, namely, about one- third of an inch, which is just wide enough to allow them to pass easily, and have access to the young brood. On the approach of winter, when their honey-cells are not sufficient in number to contain all the stock, they elongate them considerably, and thus increase their capa- * Introduction to Entomology, vol. ii. p. 498 et sen. t lnlrod. to Entomology, hnter xvii. G 2