525 MUSCULAR MOTION. the contraction has the appearance of being permanent. In the latter case, certain parts of the fibre (as its broken extremities) are fixed more or less firmly, so as to offer a resist- ance to the contraction that takes place, this resistance enabling the contractile force ad- vancing to new parts to obliterate the traces of contraction in the parts in which it is sub- siding, by stretching them. The ends usually become fixed in consequence of their being the first to thicken from contraction and from their thus receiving the pressure of the la- mina of mica or glass with which it is requi- site to cover the object, and they are the first to contract, because irritated both by being broken and also by the water, which is absorbed soonest where the sheath is deficient. This fixing of the ends brings the fibres in question nearly into the condition under which they exist in the living body, where it has already been explained that there is always a resistance to be overcome in active contraction. This particular variety of the phenomenon, therefore, deserves special study. Those animals whose muscles are most tenacious of their contractility are the best suited for examination, and among these the young crab or lobster may be most easily obtained. In an elementary fibre from the claw, laid out on glass, and then covered with a wet lamina of mica, the following phenomena are always to be observed. The ends become first contracted and fixed. Then contractions commence at isolated spots along the margin of the fibre, which they cause to bulge. At first they only engage a very limited amount of the mass, spreading into its interior equally in all directions, and being marked by a close approx- imation of the transverse stripes. These contrac- tions pull upon the remainder of the fibre only in the direction of its length, so that along its edge the transverse stripes in the intervals are very much widened and distorted. These contrac- tions are never stationary, but oscillate from end to end, relinquishing on the one hand what they gain on the other. When they are nume- rous along the same margin they interfere most irregularly with one another, dragging one ano- ther as though striving for the mastery, the larger ones continually overcoming the smaller, then subsiding as though spent, stretched again by new spots of contraction, and again, after a short period of repose, engaged in their turn by some advancing wave : this is the first stage of the phenomenon. (Fig. 302.) The con- tractions increase in number and extent, and gradually engage the whole substance of the fibre. There is still the same struggle, the same alternate action and repose in individual parts, but as the contractions by degrees predominate, the ends of the fibre are drawn more and more near, (intermediate portions by their contrac- tion receiving some of the pressure,) until at last the whole fragment is reduced to a third of its original length, and stiffened with the rigor mortis. The muscular tissue in these animals is very tough, but where it is more fragile, as in the Frog, it may give way in the intervals between spots of contraction, and become ruptured and Fig. 302. Bonier of an elementary fibre of a young Crab, shew- ing a spot of contraction (b) and the sarcolemma elevated in the form of bulla; by the expressed water (a). Magnified 300 diam. disorganized in various degrees.* In fishes I have seen a succession of phenomena similar to what has been described in the Crab; waves of contraction advancing and receding, but gradu- ally augmenting in bulk, till the whole" fibre was finally contracted. (Fig. 303.) Fig. 303. ft b I Stages of contraction seen on one occasion in an elemen- tary fibre of the Skate. The uppermost state is that previous to the commencement of contraction. a, a, a, successive 'waves' of contraction seen moving along one margin of the fibre, marked by a bulging of the margin, by an approximation of the tranverse stripes, and by a consequent darkening of the spots. b, b, b, similar * waves' still moving along the fibre, but engaging its whole thickness. In all these examples, as long as the ends of the fragment are fixed, and will not yield to the convellent force, that force is seen to be exerted in a momentary manner in successive portions of the mass. In proportion as they yield to it, the resistance which enabled the contraction of new parts to stretch those from which it was receding is removed, and the ap- pearances of contraction remain. A distinction is required between the contractile force and the contraction resulting from its exercise. The latter will be permanent, if no force from with- out be exerted to obliterate it by stretching, for a contracted muscle has no power of extending itself; there is no repellent force between its molecules. From these phenomena, therefore, it is possible to eliminate the appearances re- sulting from a subsided force, and to judge of * Phil. Trans. 1840, p. 490, pi. xix. fig. 75.