678 NBRVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. The Encephalon.) The interval between the processus cerebelli ad testes is occupied by a horizontal stratum of nervous matter composed of a thin layer of grey and of white matter. This is called the valve of Vieussens, although there is evidently nothing valvular in its nature or office. Its surface is marked by slight transverse depressions and eminences. The median lobe of the cerebel- lum overlaps and conceals it from view. The valve of Vieussens* must be regarded as a portion of the median lobe of the cerebel- lum, which is extended forwards between the processus cerebelli ad testes. Its constitu- tion is precisely the same as the laminas of that body, and the transverse markings upon its superior surface are indications of imperfectly developed fissures between the lamina. The corpora quadrigemina form the anterior superior part of the mesocephale. They lie above the crura cerebri, upon those columns of nervous matter by which the latter bodies are connected with the medulla oblongata. These columns are continuous above with the optic thalami, and below with the centra! portion of the me- dulla oblongata, the olivary tracts, orfasciculi innbminati of Cruveilhier. They are distin- guished by their reddish grey colour and their close resemblance in point of structure to the optic thalami. In transverse section they appear as two columns, circular in outline, quite dis- tinct from the surrounding greyish matter in which they seem imbedded (fig. 388, i). The lower half of the thickness of the me- socephale is formed by transverse curved fibres with anterior convexity, which extend between the lateral lobes of the cerebellum, and of longitudinal fibres which interlace with the superior layersof those transverse fibres and cross them at right angles. The former constitute the pons Varolii, a great commissure between the hemispheres of the cerebellum ; the latter are, in greater part at least, the fibres of the anterior pyramids of the medulla oblongata, which ascend through the pons, and enter into the formation of the inferior layer of each crus cerebri. In examining the inferior surface of the me- socephale, the pons Varolii, we observe that a longitudinal groove extends along its middle from above downwards. In this lies the ba- silar artery. Above the anterior edge of the pons, the crura cerebri are seen emerging, and diverging from each other as they pass, to enter, stalk-like, into the inferior surface of the cere- bral hemispheres. Beneath its posterior edge, the medulla oblongata is seen, its anterior and * Valmda cerebri major is the name which Vi- eussens applied to this process. He describes it a3 " menibrana quam transversus medullaris tractus circa anteriora subit, processui venniforrai anteriori, processibus a cerebello ad testes et posticas pontis Varolii parti adhasret etunitur." He further adds, " illam valvule vices gerere asserimus. Ex quo fit, ut habita officii et magnitudinis illius ratione, ipsam valvulam cerebri majorem nominemus, ut earn a membranaceis ligamentis distinguainus, quae intra longitudinalis et lateralium sinuum cavitates valvularum minorum vices snpplent et munia pras- stant."—Neurographia Universalis, p. 76. Ed. Lugd. 1716. middle columns passing through the mesoce- phale to the crura cerebri. On each side the fibres of the pons pass off into each hemi- sphere of the cerebellum and form the inferior lamina of each crus of that organ. The cerebellum.—Some account of the ge- neral disposition of the cerebellum will serve to conclude this brief review of the topography of the brain. The superior surface of this organ is a little above the level of the qua- drigeminal bodies. It is smooth and slightly convex. The lamellae of the cerebellum are visible upon it, but cannot be separated with- out removing the arachnoid and pia mater. A notch is seen, dividing the posterior edge into two equal portions, and a larger notch exists in front, at which the cerebellum forms its connection with the mesocephale. These notches denote a subdivision of the organ into two lateral portions, or hemispheres, and a me- dian portion. The superior surface of the median portion is called the superior ver- miform process; its anterior terminal lamina? form the valve of Vieussens. On the inferior surface the hemispheres of the cerebellum are much more convex than on the superior. The median portion too is somewhat differently arranged on its inferior surface; it consists of a series of lamina, following a transverse direc- tion ; those in its centre are of greater trans- verse extent than those at either extremity, whence the appearance of a crucial figure re- sults. This is the inferior vermiform process. The posterior margin of the cerebellum is convex, and corresponds to the concave surface of the occipital bone, the falx cerebelli occupy- ing the notch in its middle. Along the line of this margin, the pia mater sinks into a deep fissure, which takes a horizontal direction from behind forwards, and divides the cerebellum into a superior and inferior portion. As the brain, removed from the cranium, lies with its base upwards, the medulla ob- longata is seen between the lateral hemispheres of the cerebellum occupying a portion of the depression between them, in which is the in- ferior vermiform process (fig. 382). The fourth ventricle is a lozenge-shaped cavity situated in the upper and posterior part of the medulla oblongata, and formed by the separation of its postero-lateral columns (cor- pora restiformia). The cerebellum contributes to inclose it above by means of the anterior laminae of the superior vermiform process and the valve of Vieussens, and below and behind by the inferior vermiform process (fig. 386). We now proceed to the examination of the various segments of the encephalon, with a more special reference to the structure and physiological bearing of each. It may be here remarked that, while all the segments are in- timately connected with each other and are therefore mutually dependent, there is much in their structure to justify the assumption that each is capable of exercising an independent function, which is, however, liable to be mo- dified by the influence which any one, or all of the other segments may have upon it. Of the medulla oblongata. (Fr. moelle