250 MAMMARY GLANDS. the nerves and the axillary artery to enter the angle of the jugular and subclavian veins. " If, therefore, the absorbent glands in the axilla are obstructed by disease of the breast, other absorbent vessels carry their fluid into the absorbents from the arm, and when their glands are obstructed other absorbent or lymphatic vessels are found to pass behind the scapula from the axilla to enter the cervical glands above and behind the clavicle. " The absorbents of the sternal side of the nipple principally take two courses. " The first accompany the vein and the artery to the second intercostal space between the second and third cartilages of the ribs, and penetrating the intercostal muscles, they pass to the anterior mediastinum, wherp they accom- pany the internal mammary artery and vein, and enter some absorbent glands. " A set of absorbent vessels from the sternal side of the breast, placed lower down, enter the intercostal muscles between the fourth and fifth cartilages of the ribs, and join the former in the anterior mediastinum. " After entering the anterior mediastinum a part of those which pass from the right breast join some vessels from the convex surface of the liver, and are continued into the angle of the right jugular and subclavian veins, whilst those absorbents of the left breast which enter the anterior mediastinum pass to the angle of the left jugular and subclavian veins. " The deep-seated absorbent vessels which can be best injected from the ducts and milk cel- lules whilst the breast is in a state of lactation, arise from the mucous membrane of the lacti- ferous tubes and milk-cells, and form a plexus of great beauty in the interior of the gland. " These numerous absorbents, as seen in the preparation, unite into two principal vessels, which pass into the axilla, and there enter the same absorbent glands as those which receive the superficial absorbents. " Those on the sternal side of the nipple pass into the anterior mediastinum, though some of them turn round above the nipple and enter the axillary glands. " The deep-seated absorbents, many of them, join the superficial upon the convex or cuta- neous surface of the breast, and after passing- through the glands in the axilla terminate with them at the angle of the jugular and subclavian veins. " But the absorbents of the concave or costal surface of the breast take a different course. They penetrate the intercostal muscles behind the breast and enter absorbent vessels which accompany the aortic intercostal arteries on the axillary side of the breast, but on the sternal side they join the internal mammary inter- costals ; the former pass into the thoracic duct in the posterior mediastinum ; the latter enter those vessels in the anterior mediastinum which I have already described." The effect of age upon the mamma is to absorb its glandular structure, to load the ducts with mucus, to obliterate the milk cells, to excessively ossify the arteries, and to thin and wrinkle the nipple, and at length in a great degree to absorb it. But the deposition of fat occupying the place of the glandular structure, the general contour of the breasts in fat persons is maintained. On the mammary glands in the male.—The credit of discovering the intimate structure of this gland in the male is entirely due to Sir Astley Cooper; nothing, we believe, what- ever having been known on the subject pre- vious to his researches. Its size varies in different individuals; it is largest in men of light complexion and effeminate appearance. " The largest male glands which I have seen," says this author, " were found in a man whose testes were remarkably small." In some persons it is no bigger than a large pea, in others an inch and a half or even two inches. There are papillae on the nipple and in the areola of the male as in the female, only they are more minute and much less vascular. The cutaneous glands and tubercles are very similar in both sexes. " The gland is constituted of two parts:— first, of very minute cells, and, secondly, of small conical ducts which divide into nume- rous branches in the glands, and terminate in straight ducts which end in very minute orifices at the nipple. In their form, in their divi- sions, and in their course through the nipple, they all form a miniature resemblance of the gland and vessels of the mammary gland in the female." (Fig. 76.) The whole is sup- ported by a firm fascia, as in the female. Fig. 76. five ducts of the male gland, injected with quick- silver, exhibiting its ramifications and cells. The ducts divide much in the same manner as those of the female. Murat and Patissier, in the article Mamma,* refer to a case related by Dr. Renault of an individual whose mammae were equal in size to those of the female and emitted a serous fluid having the appearance of milk. The organs of generation were diminutive, the testicles about the size of a small nut, and his penis like a mere tubercle, and, even in a state of erection, only an inch and a half in length. Neverthe- less he was given to venereal intercourse and all the usual habits of men. This discovery of the glandular structure of the male breast explains, most satisfactorily, the cases which are on record of the sustenance of the infant by the male parent after the death of the female, the most authentic of which is related by Humboldt in his travels.-f * Diet, des Sciences Med. t Vol. iii. p. 58.