265 MARSUPIALIA. gressively increasing in length as they are placed forward. An interspace occurs between these and the canine, which is long, slender, sharp-pointed, and recurved. The first incisor is longer than the two behind, but is much shorter than the canine. In the lower jaw the true molars are preceded by two functional false ones, similar in size and shape to the three above the anterior false molar, and the canine are represented by minute rudimental simple teeth; the single incisor is long and procumbent as in the other Petaurists. With these differences of dentition approach- ing more or less to one or other of the modifi- cations of the dentition in the group of Phalan- gers, the Petaurists may nevertheless be readily discriminated from those Phalangers which they most resemble ; for example, the Petanrus Tuguanoides may be distinguished from the Phalangista Cookii by the greater relative length in the latter of the nasal and maxillary portion of the skull; while in most of the other species of Petuurus, the facial part of the skull is relatively shorter than in the Pet. Tugua- noides. Genus PHASCOLARCTUS. The absence of anomalous or functionless premolars and of inferior canines appears to be constant in the only known species of this genus. The dental formula in three examples of this species (Phasc.J'uscus, Desm.) is 3 3 t \ i Incisors - ; canines ; premo- 1—1 0—0 lars —1; molars : = 30. (Fig. 95.) 1—1 4—4 6 ' The true molars are larger in proportion than in the Phalangers; each is beset with four three-sided pyramids, the cusps of which wear down in age, the outer series in the upper teeth being the first to give way ; those of the lower jaw are narrower than those of the upper. The spurious molars are compressed and terminate in a cutting edge; in those of the upper jaw there is a small parallel ridge alone; the inner side of the base. The canines slightly exceed in size the posterior incisors; they terminate in an oblique cutting edge rather than a point ; their fang is closed at the extremity : they are situated as in the Phalangers close to the inter- maxillary suture. The lateral incisors of the upper jaw are small and obtuse ; the two ante- rior or middle incisors are twice as long, broad, and thick as the posterior incisors; they are conical, slightly curved, sub-compressed, be- velled off obliquely to an anterior cutting edge, but differing essentially from the denies scal- prarii of the liodentia in being closed at the extremity of the fang. The two incisors of the lower jaw resemble those of the upper, but are larger and more compressed ; they are also formed by a temporary pulp, and its absorption is accompanied by a closure of the aperture of the pulp cavity, as in the upper incisors. The Koala, therefore, in regard to the number, kind, and conformation of its teeth, closely resembles the Phalangers, with which it also agrees in its long coecum and the general conformation of its digestive organs. It has also the extremities similarly organised for prehension ; each is ter- minated by five digits; the hind feet are provided with a large thumb, and have the two contiguous digits enveloped in the same tegumentary fold ; the anterior digits are divided into two groups the thumb and index being opposed to the other three fingers. We have already noticed a structure approaching to this in some of the small Phalangers. The Koala, however,differs from the Phalangers and Petaurists in the ex- treme shortness of its tail, and in its more com- pact and heavy general form. It is only known to feed on the buds and leaves of the trees in which it habitually resides. Tribe IV. POEPHAGA. The present tribe includes the most strictly vegetable feeders; all the species have a com- plex sacculated stomach, and a long simple coecum. Genus HYPSIPRYMNUS. Potoroos. Guided by the modifications of the teeth we pass from the Koala to the Potoroos and Kangaroos—animals of widely different general form. The Potoroos, however, present Fig. 91. Hypsiprymnus murimis. absolutely the same dentition as does the Koala, some slight modifications in the form of certain teeth excepted. The premolars in their longi- tudinal extent, compressed form, and cutting edge, would chiefly distinguish the dentition of the Potoroo; but the Koala evidently offers the transitional structure between the Phalangers and Potoroos in the condition of these teeth, of which one only is retained on each side of each jaw in the Potoroos as in the Koala. The dental formula of Hypsiprymnus, the generic name of the Potoroos, is Incisors ■ canines l_i 1 — 1 0—0 r lars 1ZL1 ; molars 4 4 ; — 30. 1—1 4_4 The two anterior incisors are longer and more curved, the lateral incisors relatively smaller than in the Koala. The pulps of the anterior incisors are persistent. The canines are larger than in the Koala; they always project from the line of the intermaxillary suture; and while the fang is lodged in the maxillary bone' the crown projects almost wholly from the in- termaxillary. In the large Hypsiprymnus ursi- nus the canines are relatively smaller than in the other Potoroos, a structure which indicates the transition from the Potoroo to the Kangaroo genus. In the skeleton of this species in the