45 NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE KNEE-JOINT- ment of the lateral ligaments ; below which, on the outer condyle, there is a pit for the origin of the popliteus tendon, and a fossa leading upwards and backwards from it which lodges the tendon when the joint is fully flexed. In the lateral aspect of the bone we best see the peculiar curvature of the articulating surface. In two adult, but rather small, specimens before me the inferior part of the outer condyle is a segment of a circle of fourteen lines radius, while the radius of the posterior portion is only seven lines; similar measurements of the curves of the internal condyle give radii of six and twelve lines respectively : the centre of the smaller circle coincides precisely with the point of attachment of the lateral ligament on each side, and the advantages of this arrangement will appear when we come to consider the functions of the joint. The smooth articulating surface of the trochlea and condyles is, in the recent state, covered with cartilage. Above this surface and in the fossa between the con- dyles are numerous foramina for the transmis- sion of the nutrient vessels of the bones the internal structure of which is here made up of minute cancelli. The lower extremity of the os femoris is cartilaginous at birth, becomes ossified from a separate centre, and long conti- nues to form an epiphysis ; but it is ultimately joined to the shaft by perfect bony union. The thigh-bone exposes the largest extent of surface in the knee-joint; that of the tibia ls the next in size. Its superior extremity is ex- panded into the same kind of cancellated struc- ture as the os femoris possesses at its lower part; and the width from side to side equals that of the condyles, which rest upon its upper surface. That surface is nearly horizontal, in the erect position of the body ; it is irregularly oval, the long axis passing from side to side, and is marked in the centre by a rough promi- nence or spine, in front of which is a depression, and at the back part a notch. On each side of these inequalities there is a smooth articular surface; the inner one the larger, especially from before backwards, and slightly concave; while the outer one is flat round the margin and raised at the inner side by the base of the spine. Viewing the bone in its anterior aspect we observe that below the articular surface it slopes downwards and forwards to the tubercle which stands out at the upper part of the shin or crest of the tibia; this tubercle gives insertion at its lower part to the strong ligament of the patella, a bursa being interposed between that ligament and its upper smooth portion. Nu- merous foramina are to be observed round the head of the bone for the purposes of its nutri- tion. Below the tubercle a section of the tibia shows it much reduced in size and somewhat triangular in shape ; the outer side forming, in conjunction with the fibula, a large fossa for the tibialis anticus and other muscles; and the inner, facing also anteriorly, being a portion of that surface of bone which is covered only by skin and periosteum ; except at its upper part, where three flat tendons pass upon it to be inserted by the side of the tubercle in the follow- ing order; that of the semitendinosus lowest, the gracilis next above, and the sartorius the highest up and most anteriorly. The posterior surface of the tibia at the supposed place of section has advanced considerably forwards, so as to leave a hollow for the popliteus muscle which lies obliquely on this part of the bone. A few lines below the great articulating surface on the head of the tibia there are two things to be noticed on its posterior aspect; at the outer side a small articular surface for the head of the fibula, and at the inner side a shallow pit where the tendon of the semimembranosus is inserted. The patella is a flat disk of bone placed in front of the knee-joint; it equals in width the trochlea of the os femoris to which it is applied, the posterior surface being for that purpose covered with cartilage and divided into two slight cavities by a prominent vertical line ; the articular surface is oval from side to side and does not reach to the lower edge of the bone. Anteriorly, the patella is convex, and its hori- zontal slightly exceeds its vertical measure- ment, particularly in the female ; into its upper edge are inserted the united tendons of the rectus, cruralis, and vasti muscles; into its lower edge the strong ligamentum patella which joins it to the tubercle of the tibia ; it is covered only by skin, fascia, and some ten- dinous fibres, to which latter may be attributed the appearance of vertical stria? observable on the bone. (b.) Cartilages, ligaments, Sfc.—The whole of the bony surfaces which come into contact with each other or with the interarticular carti- lages during the movements of the knee-joint are covered with " cartilages of incrustation " (see Articulation); and the extent of these on the condyles and trochlea of the os femoris, on the head of the tibia and the posterior sur- face of the patella, is well marked even in the dry bones by their smooth and compact ap- pearance and the total absence of foramina on the parts so covered. Besides these pure car- tilages there are two fibro-cartilages of a semi- lunar form lying upon the head of the tibia, which serve to deepen the articulating surfaces for the reception of the condyles. These semi- lunar cartilages, (cartilagines falcattz, s. lu- nata) as they are named, are thickest at their convex edges which are attached rather loosely to the circumference of the head of the tibia; the concave edges are thin and sharp, and lie unattached between the condyles and the tibia. The two semilunar cartilages differ slightly from each other in the two following points ; the inner one is falciform, decreasing in breadth from behind forwards ; the greatest width being at the inner and back part, five-eighths of an inch, whilst in front it is hardly more than one quarter of an inch; the anterior and posterior cornua are separated to the distance of an inch, whilst those of the outer semilunar cartilage approach to within three-eighths of an inch of each other; and, besides that the ring is thus more nearly completed, the breadth of the outer one is more uniform, being about three-eighths of an inch throughout the greater part. The thickness of either of them barely exceeds one-