720b NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. Abnormal Anatomy.) chronic inflammation. The softened condition of the brain is doubtless due to a similar cause, the blood yielding vitiated materials for the nutrition of the organ. In brains of this de- scription the dilated and congested state of the veins, and the enlarged and lax condition of the arteries, abundantly demonstrate how sluggish had been the force by which the circulation is maintained in the capillaries, that force of at- traction between the blood and the nervous matter, by which more than by any other means active nutrition is maintained. The parts in which softening when partial is apt to occur in the brain may be thus enume- rated according to the order of their fiequency ■—the fornix and septum lucidum, the corpus striatum and optic thalamus, the mesocephale, the corpus callosum and other transverse com- missures, the hemispheres of the brain, the cerebellum, the medulla oblongata. Of the inflammatory or red softening.— Another form of softening of less frequent oc- currence than that just described possesses very distinctive characters. It is generally pretty circumscribed in extent, of a diffused redness, most commonly of a bright hue; the consistence of the part is much diminished, and it readily breaks up under the stream of water. Nerve tubes are found in it, more or less varicose and friable, also red particles of the blood, and many of those large nucleated cells commonly know n as exudation corpuscles, within which an active molecular motion may be often seen. The red colour of this form of softening is due partly to the injection of the bloodvessels, and partly to the extravasation of the red parti- cles of the blood throughout the softened part. Sometimes the red colour is absent, although the lesion is essentially the same. In such cases the colour may be yellowish and due to the presence of a less injection of the bloodvessels and a slighter extravasation of the colouring- matter of the blood. Dr. Bennet states that he has found exudation corpuscles in a softening of a brilliant white colour, a fact which seems to indicate that the products of inflammation may be present without discoloration, and that all instances of white softening ought not to be considered non-inflammatory. The researches of Dr. J. H. Bennett,of Edin- burgh, are among the most important contribu- tions to the morbid anatomy of the brain of late years. I think he has clearly established that the great characteristic of inflammatory soften- ing is the presence of exudation corpuscles about the minute vessels, and among the ele- ments of the softened cerebral tissue. This is in in the vast majority of instances accompanied with discoloration, which sometimes is due solely to the dark colour of the exudation cor- puscles themselves. When these corpuscles are not present, and especially when the soft- ened portion of brain is free from colour, then we must regard the lesion as non-inflammatory, the result of imperfect nutrition, or as produced by physical causes coming into operation shortly before or after death. As the same process of softening which involves the cerebral structure often extends to the minute vessels, small extra- vasations, constituting the capillary apoplexy of Cruveilhier, frequently occur where no indica- tions of inflammation exist; in such instances the softening, although non-inflaminatory, may be of a yellow colour from the effused colouring matter of the blood. 1 cannot agree with Dr. Bennett in regarding white softenings as generally post mortem, and the result of maceration in serum. The soften- ing of very thin parts, such as the fornix and septum lucidum, no doubt, is frequently of this character. But I have seen many instances of white softening of other parts of the brain which were not exposed to the physical condi- tions calculated to produce such a change of consistence. Inflammatory softening occurs most fre- quently in parts which are near the great vascu- lar surface of the pia mater; the convolutions and the white matter of the centrum ovale, the corpus striatum, and the optic thalamus are the most common situations of this lesion. In thirty-three cases collected by Durand-Fardel the softening was situated in the convolutions in thirty-one, and in nine of them the convolutions were the sole seat of softening. The following table will illustrate the statement above made ; it represents the results of fifty-three cases col- lected from different sources. Convolutions and white substance 22 Convolutions alone 6 White substance alone 5 Corpus striatum and optic thalamus 6 Corpus striatum alone 11 Optic thalamus alone 4 Pons Varolii 3 Cms cerebri 1 Corpus callosum 1 Walls of the ventricles, septum 1 Fornix 1 Cerebellum 1 Suppuration.—-From what has been stated in the previous paragraphs it is plain that the most important sign of inflammation of the brain is red softening. Infiltration of pus is rare. Dr. Bennett states that in no single instance of numerous examinations made by him could softening be traced to the presence or infiltration of pus. This is a direct refutation of Lalle- mand's assertion that this form of softening owes its colour to the infiltration of pus. Pus, how- ever, is sometimes collected into a cavity in the brain, forming an abscess. An excavation of greater or less size is formed in the substance of the brain, and this is lined by a yellowish mem- braniform layer, which resembles either lymph in an expanded form, or the purulent matter itself in a less liquid form, compressed into the form of a membrane by the accumulated liquid. Pus in the brain is of slow formation, and has often become collected in considerable quantity before it betokens its presence by any symptoms. Sometimes we have the opportu- nity of examining it before it has acquired the yellow colour and oily consistence of laudable pus. In this stage it may be mistaken for some malignant formation ; it is whitish, semi-solid, and sometimes mixed with streaks of blood. Its true nature may be recognized by micro-