296 M ARSUPIALIA. Fig. 119. grey matter enveloping the central medullary tract in each lateral moiety of the chord is shewn in the three situations marked 1, 2, and 3 (fig. 119); the superior expansion and com- plexity of the grey matter in the anterior columns of the pelvic enlargement accords with the predominance of the locomotive over the sensitive function* in the strong saltatory hind legs of the Kangaroo. Organs of Sense.—The olfactory nerves and the osseous cavities and laminae destined for the protection and support of the pituitary membrane offer a remarkable proportional development in all the Marsupials, and more especially in the Insectivorous and Carnivorous tribes. The outer root of the olfactory nerve appears as a continuation of the whole nati- form protruberance; a corresponding accumu- lation of nervous matter," protuberantia py- riformis,"f at the base of the inner root of the olfactory nerve has already been noticed; both these broad tracts consist externally of grey matter: the middle or medullary root of the nerve is the smallest. It is very con- spicuous in the Wombat, where it emerges from a longitudinal fissure at the anterior and inner part of the " protuberantia naliformis." The olfactory nerves or rather lobes are hollow, and contain, as in most Mammalia, the ante- * Mayo, Outlines of Physiology, p. 235. Pliih Trans. 1837, p. 95. Fig. 120. 2 S/apes of the Kan- garoo. rior continuation or extremity of the lateral ventricles (o, fig. 118). The filaments pass from the skull through several foramina of a cribriform plate. Certain species of Kangaroo, of the subgenus Osphranter, Gould, remarkable for their acuteness of smell, have the turbinated bones so large that the lateral expansion of the nasal cavity forms a marked feature in the skull. The chief deviation from the Mammalian type in the organ of hearing presents itself in the form of the stapes, the body of which is a simple elongated style either entirely, as the Perameles, or for half its length, as in the Kangaroo (fig. 120), where it divides into two short crura, before ter- minating in the base; it thus more or less approximates to the form of the columella in the bird. The largest proportional external ears are those of the Perameles lagotis, the short- est those of the Wombat. The internal struc- ture of the ear is not less strikingly developed in the Perameles than the outward appendages. The tympanic cavity is very extensive, but is formed, as in other Marsupials, by the sphe- noid and petrous bones; the tympanic bone is limited to the function of supporting the ear-drum, and forming the internal commence- ment of the meatus auditorius extemus. The internal extremity of the tympanic cylinder projects obliquely into the posterior and outer part of the sphenoidal bulla. The membrana tympani is a delicate transparent tissue, slightly concave internally, and having the long handle of the malleus (a, fig. 121) at- tached to it. This pro- cess of the malleus is bent upon itself at a right an- gle; the inner portion is broader and thicker than that which is attached to the membrana tympani, and it is anchylosed at its internal extremity by a thin and transparent plate of bone (6) to the side of the incus (c). This little ossicle, which here appears as a process of the malleus, presents a notched articular surface for the orbicular end of the stapes. This portion of the stapes gives off a short slender process for the attachment of the stapedius (d), and then is continued in the form of a moderately long and slender columel- liform shaft to the elliptical and slightly ex- panded base which closes the foramen ovale. Organ of Vision.—The anatomy of the eye offers no peculiarity illustrative of the affinities of the Marsupialia or of any other speciality in their economy save the nocturnal habits of the majority of the order. It is in relation to these habits that the lens is large and convex, the iris broad, the pupil round and generally wide, and the cornea correspondingly large. The Harderian gland and the retractor oculi co-exist, as usual in Mammalia, with the nictitating eyelid. This is always largely de-> A uditoTi) ossicles, Perameles.