5.59 MYRIAPODA. membrane, soon to be exposed by another change of skm that was about to take place. The Julus ceased to eat, became torpid, and lay coiled up in a spiral form. The tegument of the body began to assume a whitish crustaceous appearance, and the ani- mals secreted themselves beneath any dry co- vering, but avoided parts too wet. The princi- pal changes in their general appearance were in the eyes, each ocellus being much more dis- tinct, and m the germinal space, which was developed to its greatest extent, and distinctly exhibited the six new segments. The change of skin, according to Mr. New- port, is effected in the following manner. The young Julus, when about to cast its integu- ment, bends its body in a semicircular form, with its head inflected against the under sur- face of the second segment. In this condition it remains for several hours with its legs widely separated and the dorsal surface of the segments extended. The head is then more forcibly bent on the sternum, and a longitudinal fissure takes place in the middle of the epicranium, and is immediately extended outwards on each side posteriorly to the antenna? in the course of other sutures, the analogues of which Mr. Newport has described as the triangular and epicranial sutures. Through the opening thus formed in its covering the head is then carefully withdrawn, and with it the antenna? and parts of the mouth, and afterwards the anterior seg- ments and single pairs of legs. The first and apparently the most difficult part of the shed- ding of the skin is its detachment from the posterior segments of the body and from the interior of the colon. To effect this the ani- mal, which has been previously lying coiled up in a circular form, first straightens its whole body ; it then forcibly contracts and shortens itself, especially at the posterior part, and by this means becomes greatly enlarged in bulk at its middle portion, but smaller at its extre- mities. During these efforts, which are some of the most powerful it is able to make, the skin becomes loosened from its posterior parts, and while still contracting its segments, the anal extremity, and with it the entire lining of the colon, become completely detached, and from these it gently withdraws itself within the old skin in which the body is encased as from the finger of a glove. This is precisely what takes place in the shifting of the skin in insects. Having effected this part of its labour all the posterior segments are again shortened ; the animal once more disposes itself in a circular form, and after repeated exertions succeeds in bursting the tegument of the head in the part just described. As in the case of true insects the young Julus entirely empties the alimentary canal by voiding its fceces and ceasing to eat for one or two days preparatory to undergoing each transformation. When examined imme- diately before the change there are no other symptoms of new legs than slight elevations of the skin, and this perhaps accounts for the length of time occupied in the change, the new legs requiring time for further developement before the old skin is thrown off. Having cast its skin and thus attained the fifth period of developement, the young Ju- lus (Jig. 325) has three ocelli on each side Fig. 325. Fig. 326. of the head, seven joints to the antenna?, thirty-four legs, and twenty-one segments to its body. On the forty-eighth day this has been accomplished, and the young Ju- lus exhibits a marked alteration in its ap- pearance. The an- tenna? are considerably longer than the head, with seven distinct joints, and, as in the adult, the apical one is short and inserted into the sixth. The single eye has disappeared, and in its stead three distinct ocelli, arranged in a triangle, have been developed. The new segments of the body produced at the former change of the animal, from the eighth to the twelfth in- clusive, (8-12,) are now of the same size as the original ones, and each has developed from it two additional pairs of legs, so that the whole number of legs is now thirty-four. The thirteenth, or, if we may so name it germinal segment of the last period, is less de- veloped than the preceding ones, and is distin- guished from them by the circumstances that it is smaller, possesses no legs, and has no lateral