662 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. The Encephalon.) mammalia.* This statement, although appli- the nerves, and it is likely that the horse's brain cable to the encephalic mass when viewed as a contains similar ones, although less numerous ; whole, does not apply to certain of its parts, it seems, therefore, impossible that the small which are often more developed in the less brain of the horse can be the point of con- perfect than in the more highly organized ani- vergence of the large spinal and cerebral nerves mals. The cerebrum and cerebellum, however, of that animal; and if this be true as regards exhibit this gradual increase of developement, the horse, it is so likewise in man. It is much and their enlargement is in accordance with a more probable that a large proportion of them gradually increasing manifestation of mental fa- do not extend beyond the spinal cord, and that culties. And it is upon the great size of these the greater number of the fibres of the ence- parts that the superiority of the human brain phalic nerves do not go beyond the part in over that of all other animals depends. which they are immediately implanted. In comparing the brains of some of the It must be admitted, however, that although larger mammalia with that of man, we observe this disproportion is very manifest as regards an evident want of correspondence between the whole encephalon, it is not so evident when the bulk of the encephalic nerves and that of we compare the nerves with those segments of the encephalon itself. This does not accord the organ from which they immediately arise, with what we have had occasion to notice Thus, the medulla oblongata is always, as respecting the spinal cord, in which large regards mere bulk, in the direct ratio of its nerves were always concomitant with high nerves; the optic lobes are large when the developement of the organ itself. The maximum optic nerves are so ; the olfactory lobes bear a weight, as Miiller remarks, of a horse's brain is, close relation to the number of the olfactory according to Soemmering, 1 lb. 7oz.; the mini- nerves, and it may be added, to the complication mum of an adult human brain 2 lb. 5| oz.; and, of the olfactory organ. It is to the cerebral nevertheless, the nerves at the base of the brain hemispheres, to the cerebellum and the systems are ten times thicker in the horse than in the of fibres immediately connected with them that human subject. we must attribute the disproportion in question : This want of correspondence between the those parts being small when the nerves are developement of the mass of the body and that large, as in the horse, and large when the nerves of the brain, as well as between the size of that are of small size, as in man. organ and of the encephalic nerves, must surely The human encephalon weighs about 48 oz. be admitted to indicate an incorrectness in the for the male, and 44 oz. for the female.* This assertion of the distinguished physiologist who estimate, which was formed by Krause, does has just been quoted, namely, that " all the not differ very materially from that derived primitive fibres of the nerves terminate in the from Professor John Reid's careful observa- brain; those of the cerebral nerves immediately, tions made at the Royal Infirmary at Edin- those of the spinal nerves through the medium burgh. The following tables are extracted of the spinal cord."f The human brain must from a paper by this excellent anatomist in the evidently contain numerous other fibres besides London and Edinburgh Monthly Journal of those which are continuous with the roots of Medical Science for April, 1843.f Table I. Average weight of the encephalon, &c. between 25 and 55 years of age, in the two sexes, and the average difference between them—Males, 53 brains weighed—Females, 34 brains weighed :— Difference in Male. Female. favour of Male, lb. oz. dr. lb. oi. dr. oz. dr. a ■ i,t c r i $ 50 3^ or \ 44 8^ or Average weight of encephalon | 3 2 3| ^2 12 Cerebrum 43 15| 38 12 5 3f Cerebellum .... 5 4 4 12J 0 7f Cerebellum, with pons & medulla oblongata 6 3| 5 12J 0 7£ nearly Table II. Relative weight of encephalon to cerebellum, and to cerebellum with medulla oblongata and pons Varolii, between 25 and 55 years of age, in the two sexes (53 male and 34 female brains weighed). Male> Fema]e Relative weight of encephalon to cerebellum as 1 to 9$ as 1 to 9J Ditto to ditto, with pons and medulla oblongata 1 „ 8f3 1 „ 779„ From this table it would appear that, in the in the first table quoted. For this purpose female, the average cerebellum is, relative to the 253 brains were weighed. encephalon, a little heavier than in the male. In a third table, which has been reduced * According to Mr. Hamilton's investigations, from that published by Professor Reid, the the adult male brain in the Scot's head weighs, on average weight of the encephalon, cerebellum, an average, 3 lbs. 8 oz. troy; about one brain of ... ° ■."> j.. i 'j n ul„ . . • seven is found about 4lbs. troy; the female brain wnh pons Varolii and medulla oblongata, is . ^ 3 ,bs_ 4 oz and on/0'f a hundred female given over a much wider range of age than that brains weighs 4 lbs. t Reference may also be made to an extensive * See the table at p. 623 of this volume. series of observations on the weight of the brain t Physiol, transl. by Baly, 2nd ed. p. 796. by Dr, Sims, Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xix. p. 353.