436 MOTION. magnitude, swims in an inverted position; it is propelled exclusively by its posterior legs, which are lengthened, and move in a plane parallel to the axis of the body. The thighs, legs, and tarsi are nearly of equal length; the two phalanges, which are slightly flattened, are furnished with hairs to strike the water with greater force, and to vary the surface pre- sented in the effective back strokes. When the insect is poised freely in the water, its centre of gravity lies in the vertical line, pass- ing downwards from the centre of the figure. From the singular circumstance of its swim- ming on its back, it has derived the appellation of Notonecta. Decapods.—In the Crustaceous Macrourous Decapods, such as the Lobster, Prawn, and Shrimp, the tail is prolonged, and equals the length of the body. It is the princi- pal organ of locomotion, and the seven seg- ments which compose it are nearly of a semi-elliptical form, the terminal being fur- nished on each side with lamina?, which the animal spreads out transversely like a fan, in order to produce a greater surface in striking the water. At the dorsal aspect, the segments of the tail are locked before its extension is com- pleted, but on the abdominal aspect there is greater freedom of motion. The segments of the tail are articulated with each other on both sides by ginglymoid joints, of which the axes of rotation are directed perpendicularly to theplane of the mesial section, consequently their mo- tions are restricted to one plane. A slight eccentricity, however, in the direction of the articulating axes of the joints permits a li- mited obliquity of motion in the tail, but at the expense of muscular power. In swim- ming, the convex surface of the tail is pre- sented to the water during the back stroke, and the concave ventral surface in the effective stroke, by which the force translated to the centre of gravity in flexion is to that of exten- sion nearly as two to one.* During each flexion of the tail the animal is propelled backwards, and its velocity is accelerated, but during each extension it is retarded, so that its movement is retrograde and accomplished by a succession of impulses. In the swimming Decapods, the thoracic stemmata are laminated to assist in progression. The Cephulopods.—The Cephalopods swim according to the same principles as the Ilolo- thuria, by admitting water into the interior of the body and jetting it through the funnel with sufficient velocity to communicate a locomotive retrograde impulse to the animal, which enables it to traverse the sea with considerable speed. From the time of Aristotle to that of Cuvier, the Argonaut, or Paper-Nautilus, has been sup- posed to have its slight and delicate mono- thalamus shell designed for a boat, and the broad expanded membranes terminating the two dorsal feet organized for sails; but, what- ever poetry may have been associated with this view, must be abandoned by the Zoologist for * See Principles of Resistance of Curved Sur- faces moving in Fluids. the more modern and more physiological con- clusions to be deduced from the researches of M. Sander Rang* and Madame Power, who have discovered and assigned the true function of these expansions, the fabrication of the shell. Pteropoda.—Amongst Pteropods, the Clio Borealis presents a conical shaped body about an inch long ; its locomotive organs consist of two uniform expansions attached on each side of the neck, the planes of which lie parallel to the axis of the body. According to Eschricht, the fins are composed of one muscular fasci- culus, which passes through the neck, and this muscle acts in a manner resembling the principle of the double-paddled oar with which the Greenlauder steers his course on the surface of the same seas wherein the Clio is found. The inclination of the planes of the fins to that of the axis of the body determines the direction of the animal. The Clio, how- ever, is destitute of organs of prehension, and consequently incapable of fixing itself to solids ; it must therefore either remain at the bottom of the sea or paddle its course upon the dense medium which it inhabits. Pisces.—Amongst the great multitude of ani- mals moving in seas, rivers, and lakes, Fishes next claim our attention. The medium in which fishes move being nearly of the same specific gravity as themselves, they are sustained by such an amount of hydrostatic pressure as almost to neutralize the force of gravity upon their mass, so that organs of progression, calculated to support nearly their whole weight, such as occur in terrestrial animals moving on solids and in a rarer medium, are unnecessary. We observe also that as they are sustained on all sides by great hydrostatic pressure, they do not require their organs of support to be of that magnitude and density which are requisite to terrestrial Mammalia for resisting the shocks of external forces. In the osseous fishes the bones are, therefore, light and elastic, and in the cartila- ginous fishes the organs of support are still more light and flexible. The specific gravity of fishes, although small, is greater than unity, consequently we know, by hydrostatic principles, that without continued muscular effort, or some provision for rendering themselves of equal or less specific gravity than the water, they must sink to the bottom and remain there ;f but the eco- nomy of a great number of fishes requires that they should sustain themselves permanently far above the solids forming the beds of rivers, lakes, and seas, and that they should be enabled to rise to the surface, or sink into the depths of the ocean in pursuit of their prey. As this, however, would otherwise require a vast and never-ceasing play of muscular action during life, Nature has provided them with an apparatus which prevents this waste of muscular energy by the introduction into their system of the air- bladder. This hydrostatic apparatus is of va- rious shapes, but always of sufficient dimensions to contain, when it is distended, as many cubic inches- of air as will render the fish specifically * Vide Guerin's Magazin de Z lologie. t See Theory of Specific Gravities, sect. 1, p. 412.