REGIONS OF THE LEG. 130 of these superficial lymphatics ascend to the * See Ankle-joint, Regions of. rarely occurs. This we conceive to be a ratio- nal and practical explanation of phenomena which are otherwise obscure. It seems probable that that most troublesome ulcer, the varicose, is kept up, and the difficulty of its healing produced not by the irritation occasioned by the mere vicinity of the enlarged veins, but from the actually varicose state of the capillaries of the skin at that part; at least we have found such a state of the vessels fre- quently, if not generally, to co-exist with this species of ulcer. The depth of the cellular layer (superficial fascia) in which these veins lie should be accurately understood and borne in mind in performing the operation of passing a needle under the vein for the cure of varices, according to Velpeau's plan (a method which we have adopted with considerable success.) Should the needle be passed so deep as to reach the fascia, the inflammation would pro- bably be severe, at any rate sufficient to com- plicate needlessly the operation. The thickness of the cellular layer varies in different subjects, according as it is distended more or less with fat or with accidental effusion ; it is rarely, however, less than two lines in depth, thus affording abundance of room for the transmis- sion of the needle. The size of these veins of the leg in the healthy state is at the most not larger than a small goose-quill, but when varicose they sometimes swell to the size of the finger, and we lately saw a varicose enlargement of the saphena major a little below the knee, of the size of a large hen's e°;g ; the quantity of blood that may in a short time be lost from them may hence be conceived. On the anterior region the veins are few, and varices but rarely occur compara- tively. On the inner region the saphena major lies close upon the bone in part of its course, and even indents it deeply when distention has continued long. In cutting upon the vein in this situation, we must bear in mind the conti- guity of the internal saphenus nerve, whose situation, with relation to the vein, varies much, sometimes being before, sometimes behind it. We cannot, therefore, lay down any rule for its avoidance, unless it be to open the vein parallel to its length. The saphena minor has a nerve running with it, which in phlebotomy must be avoided with the same precaution as the nerve on the inner side. The two nerves found imbedded in this su- perficial layer of the leg are, 1st, the internal saphenus, which is the largest, and is passing from the inner side of the knee to the inner side of the foot, accompanying the saphena major vein; 2d, the external saphenus or com- municans tibia/is from the tibial nerve, which runs near the saphena minor through the lower part of its course. Imbedded in the superficial fascia, we also find a set of lymphatics, principally on the inner side of the leg, receiving part of those from the sole and dorsum of the foot, while those absorbents which accompany the sa- phena minor are receiving their commence- ment entirely from the sole of the foot. All inner side of the thigh, and terminate in the inguinal glands. Hence diseases of the sub- cutaneous cellular tissue of the leg exert their influence upon the superficial glands of the groin, and are not unfrequently the cause of disease in them, which, without due inquiry, might erroneously be attributed to disease of the genital organs. The aponeurosis of the leg forms an important part of its economy. It is a dense tendinous structure, which immediately invests the mus- cles, and partly affords them origin. In conse- quence of its strength and want of elasticity, it prevents swelling in deep-seated inflamma- tions, and we are consequently obliged to divide it early and freely, particularly when suppuration already exists, and when the mat- ter would otherwise burrow among the muscles. On the anterior region it is strong, very dis- tinct, and tense. In its superior fifth, it gives attachment to the fibres of the tibialis anticus, extensor communis digitorum, and peroneus longus. Below, it is pierced by the anterior tibial and musculo-cutaneous nerves. It is attached above to the heads of the tibia and fibula, and along the crest of the tibia, stretching from this to the anterior edge of the fibula. At the upper third of the leg, it sends processes backwards between the muscles, to be attached to the bones, thus forming sheaths for the muscles, and affording to their fibres a greater extent of origin. At the lower two- thirds of the leg, the fascia is closely attached to the intermuscular tissue, but has here no septa from its own structure. At the lower third, it binds the tendons firmly down in their places, and by its transverse fibres opposite the ankle forms the anterior annular ligament of that part.* From the anterior edge of the fibula, this fascia passes over the two peronei muscles, and is again inserted on the posterior border of the bone, forming a sheath for these muscles, and dividing them from the soleus. The observations made above on the surgical treatment of purulent collections refer especi- ally to this anterior portion of the fascia of the leg, on account of its greater strength, density, and inelasticity. At the back part of the leg, the aponeurosis is a continuation of that of the ham. We may consider it as formed of two principal layers; one superficial, and the other deep. Attached to the posterior border of the fibula externally, and to the inner margin of the tibia internally, the first appears to arise from the expansion of the tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semi- tendinosus. Applied over the posterior surface of the calf, it is lost below in the fibro-cellular tissue surrounding the heel. This portion being thin and yielding, it allows deep-seated ab- scesses to become superficial with great facility. The second layer is a continuation of the apo- neurosis of the popliteal cavity, and descends between the two layers of muscles ; but split- ting into two, at the point where the soleus de- taches itself from the deep parts, one of its divisions follows the anterior surface of the