MOTION. 446 require some organs modified to render tliem capable of reptation. For this purpose we find the spinal column is composed of a greater number of vertebrae than is to be found in any other class of animals. The number of verte- brae varies in different species of Ophidia. In a large Python three vertebrae in their normal positions measured one inch, which in an ani- mal of six feet in length would give 216 verte- brae of equal dimensions; towards the tail, how- ever, their bulk diminishes, by which the flexi- bility of that part is augmented ; the vertebrae are most numerous in some of the smaller spe- cies of Ophidian Reptiles. The bodies of the vertebrae are short, and are articulated together by a ball and socket joint which is situated at the inferior border of the body of the vertebra ; but as this kind of articulation permits of a ro- tatory motion in every direction, it would ren- der the whole spine exceedingly weak if the motion of the vertebrae was not restricted in some other part; to attain this object, and to give steadiness and precision in their move- ments, the articulating processes are elongated and furnished with double articular surfaces; of these the inferior is horizontal, and the superior oblique. The horizontal articular surface of one vertebra projects backwards as far as the extreme convex head of the ball, whilst that of the next vertebra projects forward as far as the edge of the socket; by this arrangement the ho- rizontal articular surfaces are in contact to the extent of the depth of the socket. The superior oblique articular surfaces of corresponding por- tions of the two vertebrae are also locked into each other when the vertebral column is ex- tended ; all the articulating processes being cuneiform and fitting into cavities or upon cor- responding surfaces effectually prevents any twisting of the body around it. The areas of the planes of the articular surfaces are suffi- ciently extensive to enable the animal to rotate each vertebra laterally 15° without causing them to slide from each other, consequently six successive vertebrae allow of a sufficient range of motion to render the animals capable of turning certain portions of its body at right angles to each other. Owing to the position of the ar- throdial joint, a small amount of flexion on the abdominal aspect in the mesial plane is suffi- cient to produce a considerable space between the spinous processes, so that the motion of the spine in this direction is rather restricted, and from the same cause the spine cannot be but very slightly flexed on the dorsal aspect in the mesial plane without dislocation. The movements of the spine for the purposes of locomotion are, therefore, chiefly lateral. The ribs which extend from the atlas to the anus are articulated to the short transverse pro- cesses of the vertebrae, and in consequence of the absence of the sternum, scapula and pelvis, are endowed with great freedom of motion ; they act in pairs on the transverse abdominal Fig. 240. The Octoptis vulgaris represented in the act of creeping on the shore, its back being turned towards the spectator, towards whom it is supposed to be advancing.