175 NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LIVER. of the organ is, however, more apparent than real, for the numerous cells may be considered as so many follicles from which smaller fol- licles are developed. The cellular character of the organ depends upon the more extensive subdivision of the follicles, their assemblage in greater numbers, their consequent compres- sion, and the adhesion of their parietes. In the Sepia family the spongy structure of the hepatic organ is still more distinct. It is chan- nelled into numerous canals, from which smaller canals branch off in various directions; from these branches cells are developed, and the parietes of the cells are every where surrounded by smaller and smaller cells, the entire texture being very similar in arrangement to the cel- lular lung of the higher reptilia. The liver in Vertebruta is more close and complex in its structure and less amenable to the observations of the anatomist than in the inferior series. We observe nothing, even in the lowest fishes, which bears any direct com- parison with the cellular structure of the liver of Cephalopoda. The general character of the organ in fishes is loose and flabby, shewing that, although difficult to demonstrate, its in- ternal texture evidently contains numerous tu- buli. If the efferent duct of the liver of a fish be inflated, the whole organ appears dis- tended ; hence we might infer that the primi- tive structure of the organ is precisely the same, consisting in the ramifications of the hepatic tubuli or ducts, the increased wants and higher position of the animal demanding an augmented extension of surface. This is the great principle in the development of all glandular organs—extension of surface. The simple follicle is sufficient for an animal so low in the scale as a cavitary entozoon, but as the functions of the animal increase, its simple fol- licle must be extended to a greater length, or branched or ramified; and as high in the ani- mal scale as the Vertebrata these subdivisions have attained so great a degree of minuteness that they are demonstrable to the practised eye only through the aid of the highest microscopic powers. Miiller arranges the glandular system into simple and compound glands. The former he divides into two groups: 1. " simplest glands," which " are mere recesses of greater or less dimension in the surface of a membrane;" and 2. " more complicated forms/' in which se- veral of the recesses are assembled together and open by so many distinct mouths, or they unite and form a common duct which termi- nates by a single opening. The " compound glands" he likewise subdivides into two groups: 1. those which " ramify with a certain degree of regularity, the principal trunk giving off branches laterally at certain intervals, these sending out in the same way side branches, which in their turn afford a third set." This disposition constitutes lobulated glands, and is the type of conformation of the liver in Inver- tebrata. 2. " The second group of the glands with ramified secreting tubes consists of those in which the ramification is irregular, and in which there is no division and subdivision of the gland into" secreting "lobules. The liver of Mammalia belongs to this group." The form of the liver in Fishes corresponds with the direction of the long axis of the body; thus, for instance, it is elongated, and con- sists of a single lobe in the eel, while in the skate it is broad and extends into each lateral half of the abdominal cavity. In other fishes it is variously divided into lobes, and is often placed altogether on the left side of the body. In the class Amphibia, the liver also corresponds with the form of the body of the animal: in the frog it is short and divided into two primary lobes and several lobules; in the lengthened forms it is long and less divided. In the class Reptilia the liver is large, and bears an equal relation to the form of the visceral cavity. It is long and undivided in Ophidia, and short and divided into a right and a left lobe in Sauria and Che- Ionia, the two lobes being spread out over the intestines. In Birds there is great uniformity in the form and size of the liver. It is smaller in proportion to the bulk of the body than in Reptilia and Fishes, and larger than in Mam- malia. It is situated in the middle line of the visceral cavity, and receives the heart into a depression upon its under surface. In the class Mammalia the liver is very much reduced in size, and is more compact and firm than in the lower vertebrata. In animals with simple stomachs it is situated in the middle line of the abdomen. In others, with large or compound stomachs, it is pressed towards the right side. The number of lobes does not depend upon a greater or less division of the liver into parts in accordance with the activity and mobility of the animal, but obeys a law in the animal economy, by which new parts are superadded in proportion to the increase of the wants of the creature. Man is placed at the foot of the scale in the progressive complication in exter- nal form of the liver of vertebrata; the entire organ may be considered in him as a central lobe, the lobus Spigelii being the rudiment of a second or right lobe. The liver of the ourang offers the same character. Ruminants have also a liver which presents the most rudimen- tary form of division. The liver of man is the type of the central or principal lobe, to which are added upon each side, in the animal scale, a right and a left lobe, and from these latter are developed a right lobule and a left lobule. This most complicated form of liver, consisting of five lobes, is met with among Carnivora and Rodentia; and throughout Mammalia, the suc- cessive additions and subtractions from this normal type form a constant and generic cha- racter. Besides this real division of the liver into five lobes, fissures of various depth are constantly met with, as in man, which give the appearance of a much greater subdivision. These secondary portions are to be looked upon as the mere results of separation, and have no relation with the primitive type. A most ex- traordinary form of liver is met with in a small rodent animal from Cuba, the Capromys, in which the whole surface is divided by deep fissures into small masses of a triangular and quadrangular form, like the kidney of a bear.