430 MOTION. Fig. 225. in the Ilunterian Museum, weighs 120 grains, and has membraneous expansions which mea- sure about five square inches, or 24 grains weight to each square inch of wing : the area is as great in proportion to the weight of the ani- mal as in many birds, and greater than in the Stag Beetle. The wings of the Volant Lacerta resemble in structure those of insects rather than of birds, the ribs supplying the place of neurse in the former, and of the osseous framework of the anterior extremity in the latter. They have sufficient membraneous expansion for flight, provided the muscles which move them were so applied, and had sufficient force to elevate and depress them with the necessary velocity. The Galeopithecus, or flying Cat, and the Pteromys, or flying Pha'anger, are also fur- nished with lateral membranes extending from the atlantal to the sacral extremities, to both of which they are attached, but they are incapable of raising the animal in the air, and rather per- form the office of parachutes than of true organs of progression. The fossil remains of the Pterodactylus show that it was organized for flight; the pha- langes of the ulnar finger being greatly elon- gated, apparently for supporting a membrane extending along the whole ulnar aspect of the arm and side of the body to the leg; a me- chanism which enabled these animals to move through the air like birds. The four other fingers are free to answer the purpose of pre- hension, and are terminated by curved hooks like the thumb of the Bat. The Cheiroptera are endowed with extensive powers of flight. The figure of the Bat pre- sents an outline closely resembling that of birds, and calculated to offer the least resist- ance in the direction of their motion during flight. Their anterior extremities are con- structed like wings, and their whole organization is adapted for aerial progression. The weight of the body compared to the area of their ex- panded wings is very small, and hence they have the power of raising and supporting them- selves in the air. The osseous system is dense, but light, the sternum carinated, the scapula; and clavicles fitted to support the wings, and to