MARSUPIAL! A. 302 bat, it is to the succeeding parts of the ali- mentary canal that we have to look for those modifications which should correspond with a vegetable, a mixed, or an animal diet; and never perhaps was a physiological problem more clearly illustrated by comparative ana- tomy than is the use of the coecum coli by the varying conditions which it presents in the present group of Mammalia. In the most purely carnivorous group of the Marsupial order the stomach presents in the magnitude of the left cul-de-sac a structure better adapted for the retention of food than we find in the stomachs of the corresponding group in the placental series. In the most strictly carnivorous Ferte, as the cat-tribe, there is a coecum, though it is simple and short; but in the Marsupial Zoophaga this part is entirely wanting, and the intestinal canal, short and wide,* is continued, like the intestine of a rep- tile, along the margin of a single and simple mesentery from the pylorus to the rectum. In the Entomophagous Marsupials, some of which are suspected with reason to have a mixed diet, the intestinal canal is relatively longer; the distinction of small and large in- testine is established; and the latter division commences with a simple, moderate-sized, sub- clavate coecum. In the Carpophagous Pha- Fig. 125. langers, whose stomach resem- bles that of the predatory Da- syure, the compensation is made by a longer intestine, but prin- cipally by the extraordinary length of the coecum, which ir some species is twice that of the body itself. Lastly, in the Koala, which is, perhaps, a more strictly ve- getable feeder than the Petaurists or Pha- langers, the coecum is more than three times the length of the animal, and its essential part, the inner secreting membrane is farther augmented by about a dozen longitudinal parallel, or nearly parallel, plaits, which are continued from the colon three-fourths Fig. 126. Fig, 127. Coecum of the Koala. * The jejunum, in the Thylacine, has a dia- meter of two inches and a half. of the way towards the blind extremity. When we reflect that the Sloth, which has the same diet and corresponding habits with the Koala, has a singularly complicated sto- mach, but no ccecum, the vicarious office of this lower blind production of the digestive tube as a subsidiary stomach is still more strikingly exemplified. What then, it may be asked, is the condition of the coecum in the Marsupials with enormous sacculated sto- machs ? It is in these species comparatively short and simple. In the Potoroos which scratch up the soil in search of farinaceous roots, it is much shorter than in the great Kangaroos which browze on grass. There is a slight tendency to sacculation at the com- mencement of the coecum in the latter Mar- supials, by the development of two longitudinal bands (fig. 127). In the Wombat the coecum is extremely short, but wide; it is remarkable for being provided with a vermiform appendage. In this animal, however, the colon is relatively longer, larger, and it is puckered up into sacculi by two broad longitudinal bands. In the specimen dissected by me, one of these sacculi was so much longer than the rest as to almost merit special notice as a second coecum. The most interesting peculiarity which the Zoophagous Marsupials exhibit in the disposition of their simple intestinal canal, consists in its being suspended from the very Coecum of the commencement of the duodenum Kangaroo. on a simple and continuous me- sentery, like the intestine of Fig. 128. a carnivorous reptile. The duodenum makes the ordi- nary fold on the right side, but it is not tied to the spine at its termination ; the com- mencement of the jejunum may, however, be distin- guished by a slight twist of the mesentery, and a fold of peritoneum is continued from the lowest curve of the loop of the duodenum to the right iliac region, as in the Kangaroos. The intestine is a little narrower at its middle part than at its two extremes ; the tunics in- crease in thickness towards the rectum. There is a zone of glands at the commencement of the duodenum. In the Fntomophaga the duodenum is tightly connected to the spine, where it crosses to be continued into the jejunum : from this part the mesentery is continued uninterruptedly along the small intestines and colon to the rectum; so that although the coecum is gene- rally found on the right side, its connections are sufficiently loose to admit of a change of position. In the Petaurus px/gmmus the duodenum is attached to the spine as in the Opossums, but it is not tied down to the right iliac region by Coecum of the Wombat.