NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Meninges.) 631 The sinuses of the dura mater.—At certain situations, processes of the inner membrane of the venous system are included in canals formed by the separation of the lamina! of the dura mater. The channels that are thus formed for the passage of the venous blood do not admit of being dilated beyond a certain size, and in this consists an important peculiarity in the venous system within the cranium. These channels empty themselves into the internal ju- gular vein, which thus forms almost the sole channel by which the venous blood is returned from the brain and its membranes as well as in a great measure from the bones of the skull. And thus is explained the rapid influence which is produced upon the brain by any impediment to the passage of the blood through the superior vena cava. It is important to notice that the sinuses communicate with and receive blood from cer- tain external veins which carry blood derived from parts exterior to the cranium. Among these may be enumerated the ophthalmic vein, and several small veins in the neighbourhood of the mastoid and condyloid processes, and in the parietal bones. The following sinuses may be described. The superior longitudinal sinus. — This sinus corresponds to the superior margin of the falx cerebri. It commences very narrow by one or two small veins from the dura mater in the vicinity of the crista galli and cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Thence it proceeds back- wards, gradually increasing in calibre, and it terminates a little above the internal occipital protuberance by communicating with a small cavity or reservoir, situated between the layers of the dura mater there, which is called Tor- cular Herophili. If a vertical section of this sinus be made in the transverse direction, it will be seen to be triangular in shape, the apex cor- responding to the falx, the base slightly curvi- linear and lodged in the groove which passes along the median line of the cranial vault. When the sinus is laid open in its length by slitting up its superior wall, we find that its sides are perforated by a great number of mi- nute orifices, which are the openings of veins passing into it from the dura mater and from the brain itself. These veins pass into the sinus chiefly at right angles to it, or in the direction from behind forwards; a few, situate in front, enter the sinus from before backwards. In the interior of the sinus we observe little bands (trabecule of Haller, chorda Willisii), stretching across from right to left, connected only with the lateral walls and leaving a free space above and below them. These bands are numerous, and various as regards breadth. Haller has seen them so numerous that they appeared like a septum dividing the sinus into two portions, of which the superior was the larger. The walls of the sinus, towards its inferior angle, have frequently a cribriform appearance, which puts on somewhat the aspect of erectile tissue. There is no appearance of valves in the interior of the sinus; frequently, however, the oblique entrance of a small vein into the sinus produces a fold near the venous aperture, which, under the retrograde pressure of the co- lumn of blood, might close the orifice, and probably, when the veins open into the sinus from behind forwards, they may be protected fiom the regurgitation of the blood by this mechanism. Several of the small bodies, previously al- luded to by the name of Pacchionian glands, project into the cavity of the sinus through apertures in its wall. They appear as if they had worn their way by pressure and friction through the walls of the sinus, and it is here that the appearance of an erectile structure is most manifest. We cannot suppose that these bodies are bathed in the blood of the sinus, but rather that they push the lining membrane of the sinus before them. It has been supposed that these bodies are natural structures destined to perform a mechanical office somewhat on the principle of the ball-valve, but they are frequently absent altogether, and when present they have no constant relation to the venous orifices. The inferior longitudinal sinus (sinus infe- rior J'ulcis) is a small vein lodged in the inferior part of tiie falx cerebri, running parallel to and a little above its inferior margin for about the two posterior thirds of its length. It gradually increases in calibre from before backwards, being formed by tributary veins from the falx; it opens into the strait sinus. The strait siiius corresponds to the middle line, at the place where the falx cerebri unites with the tentorium cerebelli. It seems to be enclosed between the layers of the former. Like the other large sinuses, it presents in its section the form of a triangle, whose base is inferior. Its direction is from before backwards and a little downwards, with a slight degree of curva- ture corresponding to that of the tentorium. It corresponds at its commencement to the space between the posterior reflected portion of the corpus callosum and the quadrigeminal bodies, and here it receives two large veins (vena magna Guleni), which carry the blood from the inte- rior of the ventricles, and a third vein, the in- ferior longitudinal sinus. It opens into the conflux of the sinuses or torcular by a round opening or sometimes by two openings, sepa- rated by a slip of fibrous membrane. This sinus likewise receives veins from the inferior surface of the posterior and middle lobes of the brain, and from the superior surface of the cerebellum. At the posterior extremity of the straight sinus we find a reservoir somewhat polygonal in shape, which corresponds to the occipital pro- tuberance; this is called the Torcular Hero- phili* (the press of Herophilus,) the conflux of the principal sinuses of the dura mater; it has six openings, one for the superior longitu- * This absurd name might with great advantage be discarded, for it seems quite uncertain what precise part Herophilus intended to apply it to. The term proposed by Cruveilhier is much better, the occipital conflux of the sinuses. Various other names were applied to it formerly, such as Lacuna, platea, pelvis, laguncula.