MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 490 Fig. 278. Vertical section of the epithelium of the mouth, shew- ing its lamellae and the changes of form which the particles successively undergo. a, superficial laminae, consisting of true scales ; b, c, particles in progress ot flattening ; d, deep layer of particles; a', b', c', d", separate particles in the several stages. Magnified 300 diameters. Fig. 279. A few scales detached from the surface of the uvula. Magnified 300 diameters. the homology of the mucous membranes with the skin. The term ' scales' is only applicable to these particles in the last of the stages through which they pass. They first appear on the surface of the basement membrane as gra- nular clots, each of which soon becomes in- vested with a cell membrane. Both nucleus and cell increase in size up to a certain point, the cell being then more or less globular, and con- taining a material that appears transparent and almost entirely fluid. By this circumstance, chiefly, it is distinguished from the spheroidal form of particle, presently to be noticed. The cell now begins to flatten, loses its fluid con- tents, and is at the same time the seat of certain changes by which its chemical properties are modified. At length its opposite surfaces unite, except where the nucleus intervenes, and a lamella of extreme tenuity results, which being now arrived at the surface is loosened and shed. It appears to be by the continual pres- sure arising from the growth of newly-formed particles that the peculiar characters of this variety result. Accordingly, the scales are only found constituting the superficial layers of a series (Jig. 278, ad). It is met with in those parts only where foreign pressure, or more pro- perly friction, has to be encountered. In such parts a thick coating of epithelium is evidently desirable, and the hard and almost horny qualities which these particles at length assume where most exposed to violence, admirably adapt them for their object. On such parts, moreover, cilia would not be needed, and it would even seem that this variety of epithelium when converted into true scales possesses neither sufficient substance nor vital power to develope and support these exquisite organs. The scaly epithelium is remarkable for the tenacity with which its particles adhere to one another, and to the surface on which they rest. This adhesion is manifest at all the stages through which the particles pass. It is stronger between particles at the same stage than be- tween those at different stages of growth, so that there is always a tendency to a separation into successive laminae on maceration or other- wise. Hence have resulted the divisions of the epidermis into two, three, or more layers, and especially that remarkable fallacy of re- garding the rete mucmum as a distinct structure. How far this adhesion is owing to the presence of an intercellular substance in all instances it is difficult to decide; but it seems highly probable that, in the deepest layers, where the particles are small and rounded, such asubstance must exist in considerable abundance, filling up the interstices, and serving as a kind of blastema, in which the nuclei (or cytoblasts) of fresh parti- cles originate. I have lately (Jan. 1842) ascer- tained a very curious fact, giving evidence of this adhesion. This is, that the delicate threads drawn out of the cutis when the cuticle is stripped from a piece of macerated skin, con- sist entirely of the epithelium of the sweat- ducts, the particles of which are so intimately united with one another, and with those of the deeper layers of the epidermis, as to allow of being thus dragged out of their tube of base- ment membrane, often for a length of an eighth of an inch. The scaly epithelium is subdivisible into two forms, the regular and the irregular. In the former, the scales are united edge to edge in a regular manner, as in the skin of the Frog and other reptiles, and on many internal surfaces, especially in the lower animals. In this form, the particles do not become so thin as in the other, and the superficial scales are cast off in laminae consisting of a single series and of uniform thickness. In the latter form, they overlap one another without order, and present no regular figure. This is the ordinary form, and is that presented in the skin and other parts of Mammalia and Birds. Of the prismatic variety.*-—In this the par- ticles have the shape of small rods, disposed endwise on the basement membrane, in a single layer, the thickness of which depends on their length. These rods are united to one another by their sides, which are flattened for that pur- pose. They are, therefore, prisms and not cylinders, as Henle terms them. They are also almost invariably of very unequal thickness in different parts, being bulged somewhere near the middle by their nucleus, which is oval, with its long axis parallel to that of the particle. Their deep or attached extremity, also, usually tapers to a point, in order, probably, to allow room for new particles to spring up in the in- tervals. This is more decidedly the case where they clothe a convex surface, (as that of the * To this the very appropriate term columnar lias been lately given by Professor Todd.