MONOTREMATA. 387 cardiac, pulmonic, oesophageal, and gastric nerves. The spinal accessory nerve (fig. 180, c) is thicker than the pneumogastric, and has the usual distribution. The brachial plexus is formed by the five posterior cervical and the first dorsal nerves. The third cervical nerve is shown at g,fig-180. The median nerve perforates the inner condyle of the humerus. The lumbar plexus is formed by the two posterior dorsal, the two lumbar, and the first sacral nerve. The great ischiadic nerve divides into the peroneal and tibial branches before it quits the pelvis. The crural nerve is shown at h (fig- 180). DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. The Ornithorhynchus, which subsists on aquatic insects, larvae, mollusks, and other small invertebrates which conceal themselves in the mud and banks of rivers, is provided with a mouth which most nearly resembles the flat and sensitive bill of a lamellirostral bird. The singularly modified jaw-bones, already de- scribed, are invested by a smooth coriaceous inte- gument, (fig. 173, A, E, a,) devoid of hair, but perforated by innumerable minute foramina. At the base of the jaws this integument is produced into a free fold, which overlaps the hairy covering of the cranium immediately behind it. The integument covering the upper mandible ex- tends beyond the margins of the bone, and forms a tumid, smooth, and highly sensible lip; the narrower and shorter under jaw is more closely invested : the oral or upper sur- face of the lateral part of the under jaw sup- ports a series of about twenty nearly transverse folds, increasing in breadth as they approach the angle of the jaw : the corresponding sur- face of the upper jaw is smooth. The two anterior horny teeth in hoth jaws are elongated, narrow, with their outer part raised into a trenchant edge in the lower jaw. The two posterior teeth (fig. 173, //, and f) in both jaws are flat, with two broad and slight excavations, corresponding with the two parts into which each molar may be divided in the young animal. Immediately on the outside of the posterior part of each molar in the lower jaw, is the orifice of an oblong cheek-pouch (fig- 180, f, f), about two inches in length, and half an inch in diame- ter : the pouch is continued backwards, and is lined with a hard dry cuticle. The tongue (fig. 186) consists of two parts, the normal, anterior, narrower portion (e), and a broad, raised posterior lobe (f), analogous to the intermolar eminence of the tongue in certain Rodents. This part is pro- duced anteriorly into a free projecting apex in the Ornithorhynchus, and is rendered still more remarkable in that animal by being armed with two short thick horny spines (g,g), projecting forward. The anterior part of the tongue is beset with rather coarse papillae, and extends into the posterior interspace of the incisive teeth, but willi (hp apex more than an inch distant from Fig. 186. the anterior aperture of the mouth. The raised pos- terior lobe of the tongue must impede the passage of unmasticated food to the pharynx, and doubtless tends to direct it on each side into the cheek-pouch- es; whence the Ornitho- rhynchus may transfer its store at leisure to the mo- lar teeth, and complete its preparation for degluti- tion. An air-breathing warm - blooded animal, which obtains its food by the capture of small aqua- tic animals, while sub- merged, must derive great advantage from the struc- ture which enables it to transfer them quickly to a temporary receptacle, whence they may be ex- tracted and masticated while the animal is floating on the surface or at rest in Tongue and larynx of jts burrow. the Ormthorhynchus. The soft palate jg t,uck> ( ec ■) broad, and divided poste- riorly into three fimbriated lobes. The pharynx is narrow, and is singularly en- compassed by two posterior processes of the thyroid cartilage (fig. 189, c, c). The oesophagus becomes slightly dilated near the diaphragm, below which it expands into a moderate-sized membranous stomach (fig. 187, /), which is chiefly remarkable for the close approximation of the cardiac and pyloric ori- fices. The intestinal canal is moderately wide, five feet three inches and a half in length, and provided, at a distance of four feet three inches from the pylorus, with a small and slender CGecum (w). The small intestines are chiefly remarkable for the extent of the mucous coat, which is disposed in numerous folds or valvulae conni- ventes : these are transverse at the beginning of the duodenum, but are placed more or less obliquely in the rest of the small intestine; they are about two lines broad, and placed very close together in the duodenum, but diminish in breadth and number as they ap- proach the coecum coli. There are about fif- teen longitudinal folds in the first half of the colon ; the remainder of the intestine has a smooth inner surface. There is no valvula coli. The rectum (z) terminates at the anterior and dorsal part of the vestibular compartment of the cloaca. In Jig. 191 a probe (6') is passed through this termination. On each side of its termination there is an oblong glandular pro- minence, about four lines in length and two in breadth, on which there are about ten ori- fices of glands, which Meckel considers as analogous to the anal glands of other quadru- peds. The long, slender, tubular mouth of the 2 c 2