NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Spinal Cord.) 659 fibres of the antero-lateral columns separate most quickly from it. The direction of these roots is almost vertical, and their length within the canal of the dura mater is very considerable. The aggregate of them forms the cauda equina. I have not observed that the situation in which the ganglia of the sacral nerves are formed is different from others. They are contained, as elsewhere, in sheaths of dura mater, and lie in the sacral foramina, sur- rounded by fat, and from the looseness of their connection with the walls of those foramina they may be very easily detached. I cannot confirm Cruveilhier's statement that the anterior and posterior roots in the sacral region together form the ganglia. The roots of the sacral nerves gradually di- minish in size, so that the lowest are smaller than any others which emerge from the spinal cord. In connecting the peculiar anatomical cha- racters of the spinal nerves in the various re- gions with their physiological action, some interesting points are presented to our notice. The great size of the cervical nerves is quite in conformity with the exalted vital actions of the upper extremities. And the predominance of the posterior over the anterior roots, both positive, and as compared with other regions, corresponds with the great developement of sensation in the upper limbs. The posterior root of the second cervical nerve, as has been noticed by Longet, is con- siderably larger than the anterior, as 3 : 1; and it is from this source that the occipital and mastoid nerves, the sensitive nerves of the integument in the occipital region, derive their filaments. In the dorsal region the almost equality of the anterior and posterior roots and the small size of both is consistent with the absence of any great degree of developement either of the sensitive or motor power. Or if, as there is some reason for believing, many of the move- merits in that segment of the body which is supplied from this region of the cord be of the excito-motory kind, then we might suppose that each posterior root contains an excitor fila- ment for each motor one in the anterior root; and if the sensitive fibres are superadded to the former (allowance being made for the smaller size of sensitive fibres.) the slight predominance of the posterior root may be accounted for. Lastly, the increased muscular activity of the lower extremities and their greater sensibi- lity as compared with the dorsal segment, ren- ders necessary the increase of size which the roots of the lumbar and sacral nerves experi- ence. And it may be conjectured that the predominance of the posterior roots has refer- ence to the exalted sensibility of some parts of the lower limbs. One of the most important problems in the anatomy of the spinal cord is to determine the precise relation which the roots of the nerves bear to the columns of the cord and to the grey matter. As far as coarse dissection enables me to determine, I would venture to make the fol lowing statement, founded upon my own ob- servations. The anterior roots derive their fibres wholly from the antero-lateral columns. Of these fibres it is probable that some are continuous with the longitudinal fibres of the cord, and that others pass into the grey matter. This, however, is very difficult, if it be possible, of demonstra- tion by the ordinary modes of dissection. The posterior roots adhere to the posterior part of the antero-lateral columns, and derive their fibres chiefly from that source. I have never, in numerous dissections, seen any thing to in- duce me to believe that the posterior columns contribute to the formation of the posterior roots. If they do, it must be by few and ex- tremely delicate fibres. It seems highly pro- bable (although the demonstration of the fact is attended with great difficulty) that the fibres of the posterior roots have a similar disposition to that described for the anterior, and that some pass into the posterior horn of the grey matter, and others are continuous with the longitudinal fibres. Various conflicting statements have been made by the anatomists who have written upon the spinal cord, with regard to the actual connection of the roots of the nerves with the proper substance of the organ. Nor is this to be wondered at, when we consider the great delicacy of the investigation. It is very easy to trace any set of filaments to the pia mater; but after they have passed beyond that covering, the nervous fibres lose their main support and their bond of union, and they separate from each other. Their exquisite delicacy and mi- croscopic size render any further dissection of them extremely difficult. Mr. Grainger, in his excellent treatise on the spinal cord,* re- commends certain precautions which I have adopted with advantage. The cord should be examined immediately after death, as the delay even of a few hours increases the softness of the medullary substance. Great advantage is derived from placing the cord, immediately after its removal, in a very weak mixture of alcohol and water, as by these means firmness is given to the parts without rendering them crisp and brittle, as happens if strong alcohol be used. The parts should be dissected with very fine instruments under water. " I have met with most success," says Mr. Grainger, " by dividing the pia mater at the median fis- sure, and very cautiously raising it as far as the lateral furrow, leaving its connection with the fibres of the nerves intact; it is then necessary to open either the anterior or posterior lateral fissure according to the root examined, at a little distance above the exact place where the nerve which is to be dissected is attached to the cord, when by cautiously proceeding to open the fissure, the threads which dip into the grey matter are perceived." Mr. Grainger re- commends the adoption of a similar mode of dissection for the cranial nerves, care being taken in every case not to disturb the connec- * Observations on the Structure and Functions of the Spinal Cord, p. 37. Lond. 1837. 2 V -2