244 MAMMALIA. " The analogy of the Rasores to the Rumi- nating Animals was first, I believe, mentioned by Linnseus in the ' Systetna Natura.' It has since his days been copied and copied, until now it almost becomes a sort of heresy to in- quire into its accuracy. I am not, however, aware that any reason for this analogy has ever been assigned, beyond the fact,-—that one order affords the principal part of those birds which are domesticated by man for purposes of food ; and the other, the principal part of quadrupeds which are destined to the same purpose. Now, granting even this domestication not to be the work of art, but to be an analogy really existing in nature, I would observe,—setting the whole family of Anatida aside, — that the Glires afford us many eatable or domesticated animals, such as the Capromys and Rabbit; and the Gral- latores afford us similar instances in the Snipe and Psophia. If some Rasores be said, like the Pecora, to have ornamental appendages to the head, so it must be remembered has the Crowned Crane; whereas no rasorial bird is truly horned, like the Palamedea. But it may be worth while to take into consideration suc- cessively the grand characteristics of the Ra- sores, as given by ornithologists to distinguish them from all other birds. " The Rasores are, properly speaking, frugi- vorous birds; by which 1 do not mean eating fruits only, but all manner of seeds or grain. Now this character of being frugivorous applies much more to the Glires than the Ungulata, which are truly herbivorous, and only feed on grain in an artificial or domesticated state. To begin, then, with the rasorial or scratching powers of gallinaceous fowls; these are cer- tainly the most burrowing of frugivorous birds : now the most burrowing of frugivorous quad- rupeds are certainly not the Ungulata, but the Glires. These birds are characterised by the shortness of their wings and the weakness of their pectoral muscles. Now if we inquire whether it is among the Glires or Ungulata that we find the corresponding appendages of the vertebral axis,—that is, the fore-feet most shortened,—the answer will be, certainly not among the Ungulata; where, on the contrary, the Giraffe has them extraordinarily lengthened: but among the Glii-es we have the Jerboa, in this respect almost a bird. In general, more- over, this latter order is distinguished, like the Rasores, by the strength of those muscles of the two posterior appendages of the vertebral axis or hind-feet, that contribute to locomotion. Gregarious habits distinguish the most of the Rasores; so they do in a still more extraordi- nary manner the Glires. Many are insecti- vorous in both orders, and some are omnivo- rous. The muzzle or facies of Glires is short and round, very like that of Perce, there being a direct relation between the two orders. The facies of Rasores is also short and round, very like that of Raptores (the order analogous to that of Fens); and there is also a direct rela- tion between these two orders. Many Rasores perch and nestle on trees; so do many of the Glires. The Rasores generally feed on hard grain, which they pick up with their hooked beak, and masticate in a triturating gizzard : the Glires feed also on hard substances, which they gnaw with their strong hooked incisors, and masticate with their grinders. In both orders the thumb is very often rudimentary. In both orders the tail varies from an extraordi- nary length, as in the Squirrel and Pheasant, to being very short, as in the Hare and Par- tridge No orders in their respective classes present the tail so spread out and flattened as the Glires and Rasores,—witness the Beaver and Peacock. In both orders the sense of hearing is much developed. In both orders we find animals, such as Squirrels and Pigeons, with their toes perfectly free; and others, as Hydromys and Phasianus, which have them united at the base by a membrane. Castor is an aquatic animal, having some rela- tion to Cetacea ; Struthio is a terrestrial animal, approaching to the Natatores. And so on rela- tion comes so fast upon relation, that I know not how we can for a moment hesitate to place the Glires opposite to the Rasores. " 1 conceive it now to be demonstrated, that so far as relates to the analogies existing in nature between the orders of Mammalia and Aves, we ought to place them thus :— Animals typically. FerjE Carnivorous 1. Raptores. Primates Omnivorous 2. Insessores. Glires Frugivorous 3. Rasores. Ungulata Frequenting the vicinity of water ... .4. Grallatores. Cetacea .Aquatic 5. Natatores. The additional knowledge of the organization of the Mammalia, and especially of the Mar- supialia, which has been acquired since the time of Cuvier, has led to corresponding im- provements in their classification. A primary binary division of the class based on modifica- tions of the generative function has been esta- blished chiefly by the proofs that have been adduced of their co-existence with characteristic conditions of the nervous and vascular systems, as well as of the generative organs themselves. These primary groups or sub-classes I have named Placentalia and Implacentalia, indicative of the adherence of the ovum to the uterus in the one, and its non-adherence, as in the ovo-viviparous reptiles, in the other group. Taking the orders as they are defined and characterised by Cuvier, the progression of their affinities, so far as they can be given in a linear series, seems to be as follows :* Class.—MAMMALIA. Sub-Class.—PLACENTALIA. Orders. — I. Bimana. II. Quadrumana. * See the excellent Catalogue of the Mammalia in the Museum of the Zoological Society, by George Waterhouse, Esq. Curator.