694 NERVOUS SYSTEM (Nerv'ous Centres. The Encepiialok.) surfaces were equal, neither of them would be thrown into folds. In examining the surfacecalled centrum ovule, which is exposed by a horizontal section through the hemisphere above the level of'the corpus callosum, we obtain an explanation of the formation of the convoluted surface of the brain. That plane of fibrousmatterissurrounded by an undulating margin of vesicular matter, the foldings of which give rise to the convoluted appearance of the cerebral surface. The fibrous matter is adapted to this irregular surface, not by any similar folding, but by the prolongation of its fibres into the concavities of the folds. It is only by means of these prolongations that an equality obtains between the surface of grey matter and that of fibrous matter which it covers. In brains devoid of convolutions, the vesicular and fibrous surfaces are applied to each other as two layers disposed in con- centric circles. There are no irregularities in either one or the other. But any increase in the extent of the grey surface involves a cor- responding complication in that of the fibrous matter, which is effected by the prolongation of the fibres at certain situations. Were we to suppose two brains in which the quantity of fibrous matter in the hemispheres was equal, the quantity of grey matter in one might be increased considerably, and therefore become convoluted without involving any other altera- tion in the fibrous matter than the elongation of certain bundles of fibres at particular situations. The existence of convolutions on the surface of the hemispheres, as contrasted with the ab- sence of them, indicates an increase in the de- velopement of the dynamic matter. A convo- luted brain, even although actually smaller than one with a smooth surface, would yet in- dicate a higher degree of mental power, inas- much as it possesses a larger quantity of the vesicular matter relatively to its fibrous matter. Cerebral convolutions are wanting in all the classes below Mammalia. They are likewise absent from the brains of many animals of the families Rodentia, Cheiroptera, Insectivora, some of the Marsupialia, and Monotremata. The brains of these Mammalia resemble very closely, as regards the characters of the cerebral hemispheres, the brain of Birds. There is not a trace of a convolution upon them, and the only fissure is the imperfectly developed one of Sylvius. The squirrel, the bat, the mole afford examples of brains deficient in convolutions. In some genera of the families Insectivora and Marsupialia, however, we find an approach to the convoluted cerebral surface in certain de- pressions marked on the exterior of each he- misphere. The fissure of Sylvius is more de- veloped, and certain depressions, taking for the most part a longitudinal course, are seen on the surface of each hemisphere. The brains Fig. 393. Verticul section of the adult human bruin. (After Arnold.) The position of the internal convolution with reference to the corpus callosum is well displayed. The median lobe of the cerebellum has been cut through, and the fourth ventricle exposed, a, a, a, internal convolution, (d'ourlet, Foville) ; e, corpus callosum ; o, fornix; », septum lucidum ; f, pineal body ,' i, anterior commissure-, h, hypophysis, or pituitary body ; t, pons Varolii; II, second pair or optic nerves ; IV, fourth ventricle.