69 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. which followed was inconsiderable, and in the second an opportunity for "secondary ampu- tation" was afforded even after acute inflam- mation of the joint had taken place. A healthy labourer, about 30 years of age, was admitted into Jervis-street Hospital about eight years ago, under the care of the late Mr. Wallace, for a comminuted, but still a simple fracture of the lower extremity of the femur, where it entered into the formation of the knee-joint. The accident was attended with enormous effusion, and there was a degree of mobility of the limb in the seat of the commi- nuted fracture truly astonishing ; but little in- flammation followed, and under the simplest treatment the man ultimately recovered with a stiff knee-joint. The second case was that of a boy aged 13 years, who had received a simple fracture of the lowest part of the shaft of the femur. The condyles of this bone were de- tached at their normal line of junction with the shaft, and where they are covered with syno- vial membrane; the posterior and anterior cru- cial ligaments were separated from the femur, and had carried with them small portions of this bone. The result of the operation is not recorded, but the specimen, preserved in our museum at the Richmond School of Medicine, exhibits, besides the injury the bones received, traces of the very acute inflammation which followed, particularly on the surface of the sy- novial membrane, which is covered with lymph. The periosteum of the femur in the vicinity of the fracture is much thickened and detached all round from the femur. Among the valuable preparations presented by Mr. Ivirby to the College of Surgeons in Dublin is a specimen of one of these transverse fractures of the lower extremity of the femur, which was combined with a vertical split of the bone down through the trochlea and outer condyloid fossa. Although the fracture was a simple one, it was followed by enormous effu- sion, succeeded by acute inflammation of the structures of the joint; and Mr. Kirby in- forms me that amputation was successfully re- sorted to. The synovial membrane was much thickened, and evidences of acute inflammation of the structures of the knee-joint are still to be seen in the preparation. Fractures of the tibia close to the knee-joint may be transverse, or through the line of junc- tion of the epiphysis with the rest of the tibia in the young subject, or in the situation and direction of this line in the adult. In this case the broad surfaces of the broken tibia nearly maintain their relations with each other. If there be any displacement, it will be that of the superior fragment, which will be drawn backwards towards the popliteal space, as the inner hamstring muscles will draw the bone in this direction. Oblique fractures of the upper extremity of the tibia which run into the knee-joint are accompanied with symptoms not very dissi- milar from those belonging to oblique fractures of the internal condyle of the femur, except the situation of the pain, and the crepitus which can be elicited on motion being communicated to the broken portion of bone. There is the same sudden effusion into the knee-joint, and a very great degree of lateral motion is allowed, which is a movement the knee-joint does not normally possess. We learn from Blandin that Beclard had very frequently observed elderly females to be the subjects of fractures of the upper portion of the tibia, produced by the contraction of the flexor muscles of the leg, which muscles also he observed uniformly pulled the supe- rior fragment into the hollow of the ham. The explanation of the fracture occurring from such a cause must be referred to the atrophy which the head of the tibia undergoes in elderly people, in consequence of which the tibia he- comes thin in its shell, and the interior os- seous structure reduced to a thin reticular tissue, which in the dead subject we notice to yield to the slightest pressure of the fingers. We have known this atrophy of the tibia to exist in adults as well as in old subjects, and when present, it of course renders the bone liable to be broken by slight causes. More- over, we have usually found the species of reunion of the broken bone which can be effected under such circumstances to have been very imperfect; the patient after a long period endeavours to move about with the assistance of crutches ; and effusion takes place into the knee-joint, the functions of which become greatly impaired for the rest of life. Fracture of the patella.— This fracture oc- curs almost always in the transverse direction ; it is rarely oblique, and still more rarely longi- tudinal ; sometimes a fracture divides this bone into three or four pieces, or is what is called comminuted. The longitudinal fracture is rare, and this and the comminuted are generally the result of direct violence; and, although the transverse fracture may depend on a similar cause, still the violent contraction of the ex- tensor muscles of the leg is the most frequent source of this accident. When a fall occurs directly on the front of the knee, this joint being at the moment in a state of semiflexion, if a fracture take place it will no doubt be considered as the result of the fall directly on the bone, by which it is broken; certainly muscular action may lend its assistance to the external violence even in producing the frac- ture, and after this has occurred, to cause the separation of the fragments. This fracture cannot so readily be effected by muscular action when the limb is in a state of complete extension as when it is in a com- mencing state of flexion, because in complete extension the muscles act in the.direction of the long axis of the bone ; but in flexion at the knee to the first degree the patella is in a par- ticular condition, which is favourable to the production of fracture ; it only applies itself to the condyles of the femur by its middle point. The base and summit of this bone are unsupported ; the extensor muscles of the leg on one side, and the tendon or ligament of the patella on the other, are, in this position of the joint, oblique with relation to the long axis of the patella ; the muscles then bend the