NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. 106 thick, almost quadrangular-shaped muscles, situated on each side of the anterior part of the larynx: they arise from the anterior and inferior surface of the cricoid cartilage, on each side of the median line. The fibres are fleshy : the most internal directed obliquely upwards and outwards (m, fig. 25), the central very Fig. 25. A side view of the larynx with the os hyoides attached. a, the thyro-hyoideus muscle ; b, the middle thyrohyoid ligament; e, the pomum; d, the crico- thyroid ligament; m, the crico-thyroid muscle; O N, the direction of the inferior fibres of the crico- thyroid lying nearly perpendicular to the axis of the crico-thyroid articulation ; f, the trachea ; n n, the insertion of the thyro-hyoid muscle and mem- brane to the inner margin of the os hyoides. obliquely, and the inferior almost horizontally to the inferior margin of the thyroid and to the inferior horn : others are inserted into the pos- terior surface of the thyroid. A portion of this muscle is prolonged to the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. Each crico-thyroid muscle is covered by the sterno-thyroideus, and lies external to the crico- arytenoid lateralis and the thyro-arytenoideus. The triangular space between the crico-thyroidei is occupied by the crico-thyroid membrane. The action of the crico-thyroidei is to rotate the cricoid on the thyroid. The superior and middle fibres are at the greatest distance from the axis of rotation (N, fig. 26), and conse- quently acting as if at the arm of a long lever. In this action the anterior superior margin of the cricoid is elevated towards the inferior edge of the thyroid from/"to/'' (fig. 26), by which the posterior upper margin of the cricoid is carried backwards from B to B' indicated by the dotted line 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, (fig. 26), and as the space is greater from A B' than A B, it is manifest that the space in the mesial plane Fig. 26. A view of the left side of the larynx to illustrate the functions of the thyro-arytenoid, the sterno-thyroid, and crico-thyroid muscles. The dotted 1 ine 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, shows the position of the cricoid cartilage when the crico-thyroid mus- cles have closed the crico-thyroid space; m, the crico-thyroid muscle ; N, the crico-thyroid articu- lating axis; A B and B A, the directions of the force of the thyro-arytenouleus muscle ; R S, the direction of the force of the sterno-thyroideus muscle meeting that of the thyro-arytenoideus in R; RN, the resultant of the combined muscular forces R P and R S ; O N and P N are perpendi- cular lines drawn from the directions of the forces of the thyro-arytenoideus and sterno-thyroideus muscles to the common axis of rotation ; they are also the^cosines of the angles R N O, R N P, and B N P, and show the amount of force on the axis of the sterno-thyroideus and thyro-arytenoideus muscles respectively; R' and A' are the points which R and A must pass through when the thy- roid is rotated forwards on the cricoid; A, the point opposite which the thyro-arytenoideus is in- serted into the posterior angle of the thyroid carti- lage ; B, the point on which the thyro-arytenoid acts in rotating B towards A ; the crico-thy- roid space ; h, the trachea. must be enlarged to an amount equal to the difference of the distance A B and A B' (fig. 26). The action of this muscle, therefore, is to stretch the thyro-arytenoid ligaments. The direction of the force of the inferior horizontal fibres of the crico-thyroid which are lying parallel to the line O N (fig. 25 and 26) being nearly perpendicular to the axis of rotation, can have, consequently, little or no effect, until the superior fibres have (by raising the cricoid) pro- duced an angle with the axis N (fig. 25); they assist only when the crico-thyroid space is diminished. It has been commonly supposed that it is the thyroid which is drawn forwards on the cricoid, and Cruveilhier adopts this sup- position ; but it has been refuted by Magendie, and not only do we observe that the attach- ments of the crico-thyroidei are mechanically directed to produce a rotatory motion of the cricoid, but the latter has no fixed point of