NERVOUS CENTRES. (Human Anatomy. The Meninges.) 629 The cranial dura mater is not a simple bag. From its internal surface partition-like processes pass inwards, which serve to separate certain subdivisions of the encephalon. These are, the J'alx cerebri, the tentorium cerebellt, and the falx cerebelli. The falx cerebri is a process of fibrous mem- brane corresponding to the mesial plane and lying in the great median fissure of the brain, where it separates the lateral hemispheres from each other. Its shape is falciform; its superior convex border corresponds to the frontal and sagittal sutures, and encloses the great longitu- dinal sinus; its inferior border is concave and much shorter than the superior, and corres- ponds to the superior surface of the corpus callosum, which connects the hemispheres of the brain. In front the falx is very narrow and almost pointed ; it embraces the crista galli of the ethmoid bone, which appears to be enclosed between its layers. As the falx proceeds back- wards it increases considerably in depth ; its superior edge may be traced back to the internal occipital protuberance; its inferior edge termi- nates at a point corresponding to the middle line of the posterior margin of the corpus callosum. The falx cerebri contains within it, along its posterior border, a large vein, which is called the inferior longitudinal sinus. The falx cerebri is continuous at its posterior border on each side with the tentorium cere- belli. This process is nearly horizontal in its direction; it forms a vaulted roof to a cavity (the floor of which corresponds to the occipital fossa) in which the cerebellum is lodged. Its upper surface is convex on each side of the attachment of the posterior extremity of the falx cerebri: it supports the posterior lobes of the brain. The inferior surface is adapted to the upper convex surfaces of the cerebellar hemispheres. Its posterior and outer edge adheres to the occipital bone and to the pos- terior border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, reaching as far inwards as the posterior clinoid processes of the sella Turcica. The occipital portion of this edge contains a considerable part of the lateral sinus (Jig 362, e) and that portion which adheres to the petrous bone contains the superior petrosal sinus. The anterior or inner margin of the tentorium is concave and free in the greater part of its extent; it forms the posterior and lateral boun- dary of a large opening (which the sella Tur- cica completes in front), through which the crura cerebri and other parts connected with them pass. This margin is attached by its anterior extremities to the anterior clinoid processes, to reach which it crosses the posterior border. The crossing of these two edges at a point external to the sella Turcica gives rise to the formation of a little triangular space, the base of which corresponds to the sella Turcica; its outer angle is perforated for the transmission of the third pair of nerves, and its anterior one for that of the fourth pair. From the inferior surface of the tentorium cerebelli at its posterior edge, a short and thick fold of very slight depth descends to the pos- terior edge of the foramen magnum. This is the falx cerebelli; it corresponds to the median notch between the hemispheres of the cerebellum. Its anterior border is slightly concave. Two veins called occipital sinuses are contained in it. The internal surface of the cranial dura mater presents the same smooth appearance as we have noticed in the spinal membrane of the same name. We observe, however, an excep- tion to this on each side of the line along the great longitudinal sinus. Here it is very com- mon to find the membrane presenting a peculiar cribriform appearance, which occupies a space of from half an inch to two inches in length and not more than a quarter of an inch in breadth, but exhibiting great difference in various sub- jects as to the number and depth of the foramina or depressions upon which the sieve-like struc- ture depends. These depressions are caused by the presence of little bodies which grow from the layer of arachnoid that covers the brain, glandulce. Pacchioni, which will be described by-and-bye. The anatomist may expect to find in a large proportion of adult brains a greater or less degree of adhesion between these parts of the dura mater and the edges of the hemispheres of the brain. The dura mater is perforated by numerous orifices for the transmission of the encephalic nerves. It adheres firmly to the border of each of the foramina in the cranial bones, and is partly continued in the shape of neurilemma over the nerve that escapes through it. In the case of the optic nerve a strong fibrous sheath is prolonged from the dura mater, and at the same time that membrane appears to become continuous with the periosteum of the orbit, as if it had, opposite the optic foramen, split into two layers, one of which formed the sheath of the optic nerve, and the other applied itself to the interior of the orbit, forming a periosteum to the walls of that cavity. Of the arteries and veins of the dura mater. —The disposition of the bloodvessels of the dura mater, both of the spine and of the cra- nium, deserves a special description. The former membrane derives its arteries from the numerous vessels which take their rise close to the spinal column in its various regions. These are ramifications of the abdominal and thoracic aorta or of their large primary branches. In the neck the deep cervical, the occipital, and the vertebral arteries send in numerous branches, in the back the intercostal arteries, and in the loins the lumbar arteries. These vessels pass in at the vertebral foramina, and send branches to the spinal membranes as well as to the bones themselves. The blood which is returned from the spinal cord and its membranes, as well as from the vertebrae, is poured into a very intricate plexus of veins which surrounds the dura mater on its lateral and posterior surfaces, ramifying among the lobules of soft fat by which the exterior of that membrane is invested. This plexus is less intricate in the dorsal than in the cervical or lumbar regions; it communi- cates very freely with the plexus of veins which lies on the exterior of the vertebral laminae and processes (the dorsi-spinal veins of Dupuytren).