29*5 MARSUPIALIA. Mammalia, and which exists in addition to the hippocampal commissure, is wanting in the brain of the Wombat; and as the same defi- ciency exists in the brain of the Great and Bush Kangaroos, the Vulpine Phalanger, the Pera- meles lagotis, the Ursine and Mauge's Dasy- ures, and the Virginian Opossum, it is most probably the cerebral characteristic of the mar- supial division of Mammalia. In the modification of the commissural ap- paratus above described, the Marsupialia pre- sent a structure of brain which is intermediate between that of the placental Mammalia and Birds; as in the latterclass the great commissure is wholly wanting, and the hemispheres, though comparatively larger than in many of the Mam- malia, are brought into communication only by means of the anterior, posterior, and soft com- missures, and by a slight trace of the fornix or hippocampal commissure. Of the other peculiarities of the marsupial brain, the relatively large size of the anterior commissure (c, fig. 118) is most worthy of notice; its development corresponds with the large size of the cerebral ganglion, which Fig 118. Didelphys Virginianti. forms the chief origin of the olfactory nerve, and some of the anterior fibres of this com- missure arch forwards, and are directly con- tinued into those nerves. In the position, superficial transverse fissure, and solidity of the bigeminal bodies, the mar- supial brain adheres to the Mammiferous type, as also in the exterior transverse fibres of the commissure of the cerebellum, forming the pons Varolii, the presence of which relates to the development of the lateral lobes of the cerebellum. In one of the latest published treatises on comparative anatomy, the Lehrbuch der Ver- gleichenden Zootomie, zweite auflage, 1834, of Cams, the first and chief structural charac- teristic of the brain in Mammalia is stated, as in the Lecons d'Anatomie Comparee of Cuvier, to be the presence of the corpus callosum.* The brain of the Rodentia is cited as the example of the transitional condition of this organ from Mammalia to Birds.\ Besides the * ' Theils und vorzliglich werden sie in den durch eine ncue grosse Commissur vereinigten/ § 122, 15. i. p. 77. " Die einzelnen Hirnmassen betn-ffend, so alissert sich, wie schon bemcrkt, das Eigenthiimliche der ersten, der Hemisph'aren, vor- ziiglicli durch die Erscheinimg des Balkens (corpus callosum) und des Gcwblbcs (fornix)." t " Im allgemeincn bildet zur IJirnform dieser Klasse von der der vorigen (derViigel) die Gehii'n- biliiung, wie sie in den Nagethieren (Itodcntia) beobachtet wird, dendeutlichsten Ucbcrgang." Ibid, p. 77. Rodentia, Carus afterwards states that the Monotremata, Marsupialia, and Insectivora (shrews, moles, and bats) also present the more simple form of brain among the Mammalia, " the hemispheres being of an ovate form con- tracted anteriorly, and their surface perfectly smooth, as in Birds, not extending over the cerebellum, and sometimes not over the corpora quadrigeinina. Internally the great commissure is generally very short (in the Bats and Kan- garoo hardly so long as the corpora quadrige- mina, a structure which reminds one of that in Birds). The fold of the corpus callosum and the cornua ammonis (which Carus terms the processes of the corpus callosum in the ven- tricles) are commonly broad and large."* In illustration of this simple structure of the mammiferous brain Carus gives a figure of the brain of a Rodent, and from the whole descrip- tion the reader is led to infer that the Rodent and Insectivorous placental Mammalia partici- pate with the marsupial Mammalia in all the characters of the cerebral organization which approximate to those in Birds. Rudolph Wagner also describes the brain in the Roden- tia, Cheiroptera, Edentata, and Marsupialia as being characterised by the small size of the corpus callosum,f which does not extend far back. It must not be supposed that the pre- ceding quotations are adduced to detract from the merit of works whose reputation deservedly stands high. The position of the accomplished and indefatigable authors in a central town of Germany is unfavourable to the acquisition of specimens of animals which, like the Marsu- pialia, are almost confined to one of our most distant colonies; but it would be unpardonable in an English Comparative Anatomist, pos- sessing the requisite opportunities of consult- ing nature, to content himself with copying the generalizations of foreign systematic writers, which, as regards the marsupial Mammalia, are liable to repose on so limited and imperfect an induction. The Spinal Chord.—The spinal chord mani- fests all the usual Mammalian characters; the brachial and pelvic enlargements correspond with the relative size and muscularity of the ex- tremities to which they furnish the nerves, the lumbar or pelvic enlargement is consequently most marked in the Kangaroo (fig. 119) and Potoroos, but does not exhibit the rhomboidal sinus which characterises this part of the chord in Birds. The disposition of the layer of * " Die aussere gestalt der hemispharen ist in den Nagern, so wie in den Schnabel-und Lieutel- ihieren, Spitzm'ausen, Maulwiirfen und Fleder- mausen ein vorwarts sicb verschm'al erodes Eirund, und ihre Obcrflacbe, wie in Vogel volikomrocn glatt; hinterwarts werden dadurch weder kleincs Hirn, ja oft nicbt einmal die Vicrhugel bedeckt ; innerlich ist die grosse Commissur (corpus callosum ) gewbhnlich noch schr Iturz (bei den Fielcrm'ausen und dera Kangiiruh kaum so lang als die Vierhugel, eine Bildung, so an die Vogel erinnert) der Ums- rhlag des Dulkcns und Forsetzung desselbcn in die Seitenbolilen (cornua Ammonis) voizuglich breit und gros (f. v. e. g.)" Ibid. § 124, p. 79. ^ Der lialkcn ist nocli schmal bei den Nagern, Fledermausen, Edentaten und Eeutelthieren und geht nicht weit nacb binten.—Lehrbuch der Ver- gleichenden Ancftomie, p. 609, Ui'35.