ABNORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. 123 parts was found apparently perfect in its orga- nization. But not to rely on observations made on the inferior animal, a case soon afterwards occurred in the Richmond Surgical Hospital, of a young female wounded in the trachea rather low down in the neck. From this wound por- tions of the ingesta frequently escaped, and yet after death the larynx was found healthy, its organization complete, and no unnatural communication whatever between the oesophagus and windpipe in any part or situation what- ever. I have since had a precisely similar case under my care in the Meath Hospital. These are instances in which the epiglottis seems inert, and the larynx is left patulous and unprotected ; there are other cases in which it appears to be morbidly active, although it is difficult to ex- plain the agency by which such activity is pro- duced. In prosecuting some experiments on the subject of asphyxia, a stout middle-sized dog was let down into a brewing vat that had been emptied of the fermenting liquor about ten minutes previously; he was to all appear- ance perfectly dead in two minutes. After al- lowing the body to remain thus for twenty minutes, it was examined : the glottis was found to be of a very pale colour, and the rima completely shut up by the close approximation of the arytenoid cartilages. The epiglottis was shut down like a lid upon a box, so as perfectly to close the superior aperture of the larynx: this latter was a curious appearance, and I know not what muscles could produce the effect, but the fact was witnessed by Dr. Hart, now one of the professors of practical anatomy in the College of Surgeons, by Dr. Young, and others. I am also ignorant as to whether a similar condition of the epiglottis obtains in men who have been suffocated by carbonic acid ; human subjects are seldom examined so soon after falling into a state of asphyxia as to allow of the immediate appearances being ob- served, and yet information on this point would be of great value in determining the suitable means for attempting resuscitation. The most difficult part of the pathology of the larynx to contend with is that which has reference to muscular organization, and unfor- tunately it is that which has been least ex- amined, or on which examination has thrown the faintest and most unsatisfactory light. Furnished with an exquisitely delicate and beautiful arrangement of muscle, the normal actions of which are exemplified in the pro- duction of the different sounds of the voice, and in giving force to the exit of the air in coughing, sneezing, &c. it would appear only reasonable to suppose that the functional de- rangements of the larynx should be accom- panied by some appreciable corresponding le- sion of its muscular apparatus ; yet such does not seem to be the case, at least not invariably, and we sometimes find the voice impaired or perhaps lost, the muscles of the organ ex- hibiting their ordinary appearance, and again remarkable and seemingly important lesions without much injury to voice or respiration. Under these circumstances we must speak of the morbid appearances that have been ob- served in the first instance, and consider the irregularities of function afterwards. The muscles of the larynx are sometimes found in a state of extraordinary develope- ment amounting almost to hypertrophy. I know not how far this may be considered to be an abnormal condition, or whether it may not be the natural result of great and constant em- ployment of the organ : reasoning from ana- logy this latter seems more probable, but dis- section has hitherto thrown no light upon the subject. They are likewise subject to atrophy or wasting, the fibres appearing thin, pale, and attenuated. Andral mentions cases of loss of voice in which he sometimes found the fibres of the thyro-arytenoid muscle wonderfully atro- phied, and sometimes separated from each other by some morbid secretion, either of pus or tubercular matter. I have been informed by Sir F. Crampton that he has seen in the Mu- seum of the Veterinary College in London, several preparations illustrative of the disease termed " roaring" in the horse, which seems to be produced by an atrophy of the arytenoid muscles. A relaxation is thus effected which allows to the arytenoid cartilages an unnatural degree of mobility. Whilst the animal is at rest or moving slowly, the current of air passes gently, and there is no " roaring;" but when he is put to greater speed and respiration becomes more hurried or more forced, the little valves are acted on, the rima is proportionably closed, the breathing becomes stridulous, and that pe- culiar noise so well known to persons conver- sant with horses is produced. Lesion of function in the muscles of the la- rynx exhibits itself in the opposite conditions of atony and spasm. Examples of the former are to be found in some cases of partial pa- ralysis where the patients become totally in- capable of uttering any sound, however in- distinct and inarticulate; in the hoarseness and sometimes loss of voice that suddenly attacks young persons, particularly females, from ex- posure to cold and damp ; and perhaps fre- quently in the sympathetic aphonia that precedes or attends on phthisis. On the pathology of these affections morbid anatomy has thrown but little light, nor is it surprising that the subject has attracted a minor degree of attention, when it is recollected that the more severe laryngeal symptom, that of difficult respiration, is seldom or never present. I have had two cases of aphonia attended with pain and soreness in the larynx, which, under an idea that the disease was either gout or rheumatism, I treated with colchicum with apparently favourable results. I know not whether the supposition that the la- rynx may be the seat of either of these painful affections is correct or not, but I see no reason why it should enjoy so fortunate an exemption. However, although atony of the muscles of the larynx may not be attended with much peril, a spasmodic action of them is always eminently perilous, sometimes destroying life with a ra- pidity that almost precludes the possibility of assistance. There can, therefore, be few sub- jects more interesting to the practitioner, and