373 MONOTREMATA. petrous, but separated from the latter, at its lower half, by a fissure analogous to but wider than the canal which traverses the squamous union of the same bones in the Echidna. The base of the squamous plate is contracted but thickened to form the origin of the zygomatic process : it sends inwards a thin plate, concave externally, which forms the glenoid cavity for the lower jaw, and is applied against the basal part of the petrous bone. The glenoid plate is equal in size to the squamous process. They meet at a right angle, and, from the tubercle developed from their union, external to the glenoid cavity, the zygomatic process is con- tinued forwards to join that which is sent off by the superior maxillary bone. I could not find any distinct malar bone in the young Ornithorhynchus. The same arguments against considering the squamous bone to be the malar apply to this Monotreme as have been used in reference to the Echidna. The parietal bone (fig. 172, d) forms the chief part of the upper region of the skull; it is longer in proportion to its breadth than in the Echidna. Both the lambdoidal and co- ronal sutures are squamous, and the parietal overlaps the frontal bones. There is no trace of sagittal suture; the bony falx is developed from the line which that suture would occupy. The lateral connexions of the parietal differ from those in the Echidna by its union with the squamous portion of the temporal bone, as above-mentioned. The frontal bones (li,h) are relatively smaller than even in the Echidna: they were divided by a suture in the specimen described. The form of their exposed surface is shown in fig. 172, h, h. The side of the skull anterior to the petrous bone is formed by the great ala of the sphenoid (Jig. 172, i), which is joined by a well-defined linear harmonia to the parietal bone. The Ornithorhynchus differs from the Echidna in the large vacuities in the floor of the skull behind and in front of the tympanic cavity, the one representing the combined jugular and condyloid foramen, the other the oval foramen, between which the body of the sphenoid also presents two membranous spaces. The skull differs also in the larger size of the foramen rotundum, in the stronger zygomata, the more complete orbit, and the singular modification of the bones supporting the beak. The cranial cavity is proportionally smaller and shallower in the Ornithorhynchus. The sutures of the cranial bones are much sooner obliterated, and the whole upper and lateral parietes then con- sist of a thin continuous dense plate of bone without diploe. The resemblance which the Ornithorhynchus offers in this respect to the class of Birds is noticed by Meckel. The oblique canal, (fig. 173, c, c,) which traverses the squamous suture between the petrous and squamous portions of the temporal in the Echidna, is so much shorter and wider in the Ornithorhynchus that it appears to de- tach from the side of the cranium a distinct superior column or root (fig. 173, c, a) to the posterior commencement of the zygomatic arch. An analogous canal runs between the tym- panic and mastoid bones in the skull of the Crocodile, and is dilated to great width in the Lizards ; but the presence of a distinct tym- panic bone in the usual position in the Orni- thorhynchus nullifies the supposition that the upper root of the zygoma can be the analogue of the os quadratum in the Ovipara. The articular surface for the lower jaw (fig.l73,c,b) is much more distinctly developed than in the Echidna; it occupies the base of the zygoma, is extended and concave trans- versely, narrower and slightly convex from before backwards: it is not defended by any posterior process. The zygoma is complete, and consists of a nearly vertical straight plate of bone, expanded at its anterior or maxillary extremity, where it sends upwards an angular process bounding the orbit posteriorly, and bends downwards to support the broad alve- olus of the horny molar tooth (fig.\73, A,g, h). The orbits are small and directed obliquely upwards and outwards. The skull is more contracted between them than in the Echidna, but anterior to them it begins to expand, be- comes flattened horizontally, then bifurcates, and the two depressed branches, after slightly diverging, terminate each by an inwardly inflected process, the extremities of which are half an inch apart. The space inter- cepted by the facial fork is the external bony nostril (Jig. 172, p), which is thus left incom- plete anteriorly. The forms and pioportions in which the bones of the face enter into the formation of the external nasal aperture are illustrated in the figure of the cranium of the Ornithorhynchus given by Pander and DAlton,* and I have verified the accuracy with which the sutures are there delineated. Cuvierf supposed the facial forks to be formed by the intermaxillary bones, and describes a small bone in the middle of their interspace (fig. 172, p) suspended in the cartilage of the upper mandible, and with an emargination on each side of its inferior plate, which he conjec- tured might represent the nasal bones and the palatine part of the intermaxillary bones. The true nasal bones (fig. 172, u, n) are, however, as shown by Pander and D'Alton, analogous in situation to and more largely developed than those of the Echidna. They commence each by an angular process, which overlaps the frontal, and extends into the inter-orbital space. They are continued forward of equal breadth, and have their anterior extremity obliquely trun- cated and terminated in a fine point, which extends to the middle of the inner side of the facial fork. The nasal bones thus form the pos- terior half of the boundary of the bony nostrd. The superior maxillary bone (fig. 172, m, m), after sending oft' a process (c), which curves over the ant-orbital foramen, extends forwards * Skclctc der zahnlosen Thierc, 1825, (tab. ii. fig. a.) t Lc9ons il'Anat. Comp. 1837, ii. p. 455,