684 NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. The Encephalon.) space between them, and the central columns cipal bundles of fibres decussating each other do not extend to the surface; and from the on the middle line, so that the right pyramid absence of any great developement of grey is the medium of connection by the greater matter, we find no such arrangement as that number of its fibres between the right hemi- which gives rise to the corpus dentatum in man. sphere of the brain and the left half of the cord, The olivary or central columns of the me- but by a much smaller number between that dulla oblongata pass into the mesocephale, same hemisphere and the right half of the occupying a plane superior to that of the py- cord. And so also of the left, mutatis mu- ramidal fibres and of the transverse fibres, tandis. It is highly probable too that the anterior They may be traced upwards to the cms cerebri, pyramids derive fibres from the locus niger of where they seem to merge into the optic tha- the cms cerebri and the vesicular matter of the Jami, and to form a connection with the corpora mesocephale. These fibres, therefore, connect quadrigemina posteriorly. those segments with the spinal cord, but whe- These columns are seen distinctly in their ther they contribute to the formation of the ascent to the brain in the fourth ventricle, as decussating or non-decussating bundles, or to two cylindrical columns (A, FJzg. 386). They that of both, it is impossible to determine, form the floor of that cavity and are separated The restiform bodies are evidently the con- from each other by the longitudinal fissure necting fibres between the hemispheres of the which is continued upwards from the posterior cerebellum and the posterior and antero-lateral fissure of the medulla oblongata. columns of the spinal cord. And the pos- ln the fourth ventricle the olivary columns terior pyramids connect the posterior part of are crossed by the fibres of origin of the the medulla oblongata with the cervical and portio mollis of the seventh pair of nerves, dorsal regions of the cord, the while colour of which in the recent speci- Nerves.—Numerous nerves are connected men contrasts strikingly with the greyish hue with the medulla oblongata—a fact which of the columns themselves. We here see dis- serves greatly to enhance its importance as a tinctly that these columns are the source of centre of nervous action. These nerves are the origin of these nerves, and no doubt they are sixth pair, which are connected with the ante- equally so of all the nerves which are con- rior pyramids just behind the posterior border nected with the medulla oblongata, namely, of the pons; the ninth pair, or hypoglossal the fifth pair, the eighth, the ninth, and pro- nerves, which emerge along the anterior border bably also of the sixth. of the olivary body ; the seventh pair (portio The relation of the olivary columns in mollis and portio dura), which emerge just be- their upward course, to the other constituents hind the upper extremity of the olivary body ; of the mesocephale and crura cerebri, may and the eighth pair, which arise along the pos- be conveniently demonstrated in examining terior margin of the olivary body, tranverse sections of those parts. We shall, Of the mesocephale. — The pyramidal therefore, return to this subject in descri- and olivary columns may be readily traced, as bing the anatomy of those portions of the already explained, from the medulla oblongata brain. up to the cerebral hemispheres; the former The following interpretation of the various becoming united chiefly with the corpora striata, columns of the medulla oblongata, referred to the latter with the optic thalami. in the preceding description, has much foun- In that part of their course which is interme- dation in their anatomical relations. diate to the medulla oblongata these columns The olivary or central columns constitute the become mingled with certain transverse fibres, fundamental part of the medulla oblongata; and with more or less of vesicular matter, and that, on which its action as a distinct and in- with them contribute to form a mass which is dependent centre depends, and in which the the connecting link between all the segments of proper nerves of this segment of the ence- the cerebellum, and may be compared to a rail- phalon are implanted. The continuity of those road station, at which several lines meet and columns with the optic thalami and corpora cross each other. This is the mesocephale or quadrigemina materially enhances their phy- mesenccphale. The name was suggested by siological influence, and denotes their intimate Chaussier, inasmuch as it forms " to a certain association with some of the most important extent the middle and central part of the ence- functions of the brain. And it may be added, phalic organ, the bond which unites the several that this connection of the medulla oblongata bundles of fibres which contribute to its for- with parts which are ordinarily described as mation." pertaining to the brain itself, shews that the The mesocephale may be isolated from the original application of the term by Willis and other segments by dividing the crura cerebri Vieussens to a much greater extent of the en- just beyond the anterior margin of the pons, and cephalon is certainly more consistent with the the crura cerebelli as they penetrate the he- physiological anatomy than that which is now mispheres, and the medulla oblongata on a level employed for the convenience of description, with the posterior edge of the pons. The crura There can be no doubt that the extent of this cerebri emerge from it in front: the medulla central and fundamental portion of the nervous oblongata is connected with its posterior sur- system is limited above by the optic thalami face : on either side it is prolonged into a cms and below by the spinal cord. cerebelli. Its inferior surface, which is very The anterior pyramids connect the cerebral convex and looks forwards, is composed of the hemispheres with the spinal cord, the prin- thick layer of arched fibres which form the