NORMAL ANATOMY OF THE LARYNX. 101 number,* of which three are single and un- symmetrical, the epiglottis, thyroid, and cri- coid ; two are placed laterally, and form a pair, called the arytenoids. Upon the summits of these are found two minute cartilaginous bodies, termed cornicula ; the remaining two (which, however, are not always present) are situated anterior to the arytenoids, and in- volved in the aryteno-epiglottic folds, named the cuneiform cartilages. The cricoid cartilage. Gr. xgutoc, a ring, eiJo?; Lat. Cartilago annulifornus ; Fr. Cri- co'ide ou annulaire ; Germ. Ringknorpel; Ital. Cricoide.—This cartilage, situated at the base of the larynx, which it supports, is the thickest and strongest of the whole assemblage of car- tilages. It is connected to the first ring of the trachea by elastic ligaments and mucous mem- brane. Its form, that of a ring, is not quite circular, but approaching to an elliptical figure. It is shallow in front, at c, e, (fig. 20,) but it is thicker and deeper than the first ring of the trachea; and, posteriorly, it is considerably deeper than at its anterior part, in the propor- tion of eight to two and a-half. Fig. 20. B A, an anterior, B, the side view of the cricoid cartilage; a, the posterior superior margin ; b, b, the crico-arytenoid articulating surface; b,g,f,e, the superior descending margin ; d, e, the tracheal aperture of the cricoid ; a, d, the greatest, a, c, the least depth of surface ; a, e, the obliquity of the superior section to the axis ; h, the left surface articulating with the inferior cornua of the thyroid cartilage. The anterior external surface gives attach- ment to the crico-thyroid muscles (seeJig. 26); more posteriorly we find an apophysis for the articulation of the thyroid (h,Jig. 20, B). Its posterior surface is divided into two equal por- tions by a vertical ridge along its middle line, a, d, fig. 20, B. This ridge, which was first noticed by Galen, gives attachment to some longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus. On each sidq of it a concave surface is observed, which gives origin to the crico-arytenoidei postici, e, e,fig 27. The internal surface is smooth, and lined by the mucous membrane of the larynx. The inferior margin is horizontal, and nearly circu- * Galen describes only three, ^vSpoc OupEoEiJoc, lar; but the superior, which is bevelled obliquely inwards and upwards, about c, e, (Jig. 20,) ascends backwards in the direction of e>f>g> b> being slightly curved downwards between f and g. The anterior superior outline of this cartilage presents that of the section of a cylinder, whose obliquity to its axis is in the direction a, e, and therefore is elliptical. It recedes anteriorly from the lower margin of the thyroid cartilage in the direction of g,f, e, (Jig. 20,) leaving an interval called the crico-thyroid space, a, (fig. 20, B,) which is occupied by the crico-thyroid ligament; on each side, in the lines e, f, g, by the lateral liga- ments, and more posteriorly by the crico- arytenoidei laterales, in the space^/j g, to the external side of /) (Jig. 20). The posterior superior margin is horizontal on each side of a, (Jig. 20,) and parallel to the inferior at d, having at b and b an oblong, oblique, and slightly cylindrical surface, in- clined upwards and outwards for the articu- lation of the arytenoid cartilages. These sur- faces are considered by Willis as " portions of cylinders, whose axes are inclined both with respect to the horizontal and vertical sections." In the vertical section, the projection of this articulating axis is in the position G, C, (fig. 28,) and in the horizontal, in the line O, P, (Jig. 30.) Between these surfaces is a slight depression for the insertion of the arytenoid muscles. The thyroid cartilage. Syn. Lat. Cartilago scutiformis; Fr. Thyro'ide; Germ. Schildknor- pel.—This cartilage derives its name from fit^to?, a shield, and eiJo;, form. It embraces the cricoid in a manner analogous to the carapax of the tortoise. It is formed to protect the internal mechanism of the larynx, both in front and at both sides, but is open behind. It serves Fig. 21. An angular view of the thyroid cartilage, a, the notch ; b, b, the superior cornua ; c, c, the inferior cornua ; g, g, the superior tubercles ; h, h, the in- ferior tubercles; e, e, the wings of the thyroid; i, a, i, the superior margin ; h, d, h, the inferior margin ; a, d, the mesial line ; f, the pomum. as a fulcrum and lever for the action of several muscles. It is composed of two quadrilateral lamina; uniting in front at the mesial line (a, d,