228 LYMPHATIC AND LACTEAL SYSTEM. and from the rectum, take somewhat the course of the inferior mesenteric artery and its branches ; they pass through their appropriate glands, and are ultimately received by the lumbar glands. The vasa efferentia of the lumbar glands cannot be said to receive the contents of all the vessels and glands hitherto described; they, in fact, empty themselves into the principal lymphatics by whose union the thoracic duct is formed, or into the duct itself soon after its formation. The principal lymphatics above alluded to may be traced more or less dis- tinctly from Poupart's ligament to the second lumbar vertebra, where they usually unite to form the thoracic duct, the vessels of opposite sides communicating freely with each other. Their position and arrangement will be well understood by the accompanying wood-cut. In the dissection from which this wood-cut was taken, the injection did not pass freely into the glands, from which circumstance the vessels are more distinctly seen, as it permitted the glands which partly concealed them to be removed with- out causing extravasation. These vessels, after taking somewhat the course of the external, in- ternal, and common iliac arteries, may be seen Jo ascend pretty close to the inner edges of the psose muscles, to communicate freely by cross branches, and opposite to about the third lumbar vertebra to pass inwards, on the right side behind the cava, on the left behind the aorta to unite into one vessel on the body of the se- cond lumbar vertebra, behind the root of the right renal artery, and thus to form the com- mencement of the thoracic duct. In the subject from which the drawing was taken the branches did not unite in the abdominal cavity. Two nearly equal-sized vessels ascended into the thorax, which, however, soon coalesced. The union generally takes place opposite the abrupt dilatation marked No. 11, and which would be termed the receptaculum chyli, although the lacteals generally enter above this point. The lacteals, properly so called, take origin from the small intestines. During the process of digestion they contain a white fluid, the chyle, but at other times their contents are colourless like those of the rest of the lympha- Shewing the principal lymphatic branches of the inguinal, iliac, and lumbar regions, into which the vasa efferentia of the glands of these regions empty themselves, and by the convergence and union of which the t/toracic duct is generally formed on the body of the second lumbar vertebra. Shewing also in this instance an abrupt globular dilatation in the posi- tion of the receptaculum chyli, and a double tlwracic duct.—(From a dissec- tion. ) a, The body of the second lumbar vertebra. b, The right cms of the diaphragm. c, The left crus of the diaphragm. d, The abdominal aorta displaced. e, The diaphragm. f, Psoas muscle. 1, Vasa effeientia of the inguinal glands. 2, Their vasa efferentia. 3, The principal branches associated with the internal inguinal glands. 4, Those accompanying the external and common iliac glands. 5, Those accompanying the lumbar glands. 6, The convergence of the vessels of , opposite sides. 7 and 10, The trunks from the left and right sides, which in this instance did not unite (as is usually the case) to form the thoracic duct, but passed separately into the ca- vity of the thorax. 8, Transverse communications be- tween the vessels of opposite sides. 9, A communication between the transverse branches in the vertical direction. 11, The receptaculum chyli, in this instance remarkably abrupt, and of a globular form. tic system ; they are joined by the lymphatics of the caput coli, the ascending and transverse colon; they also communicate with the lym- phatics of the liver, spleen, pancreas, and stomach. The more modern opinion is, that the lacteals commence from the villi and from the spaces between the villi in the small intes- tines, not by open mouths, but by a delicate net- work of vessels, through the coats of which