65 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. Abscess may, however, form in the interior of the heads of the tibia or lower extremity of the femur without being preceded by the death of any portion of the bone, as is proved by a specimen in the museum of the Richmond Hospital. A child, aged about twelve, had long suffered from chronic disease of the upper portion of the tibia. A chronic symptomatic abscess pointed and opened spontaneously in the popliteal space, and here a fistulous open- ing remained discharging a quantity of thin sanious pus. While under treatment for this chronic disease, a sudden attack of acute ar- thritis set in, which threatened the patient's life, and amputation was immediately per- formed. Upon examination of the knee-joint and of the interior of the bones, which were exposed by a vertical section made from before backwards, an abscess was discovered in the centre of the head of the tibia, capable of con- taining a walnut. This communicated with the popliteal abscess, which had long had a fistulous opening in the ham ; but the abscess in the interior of the tibia was now found to have another opening into the cavity of the knee-joint, whicli had all the appearance of having been quite recent. The matter of the abscess of the tibia having suddenly made its way into the cavity of the knee-joint was the immediate exciting cause of the acute arthritis genu, evidences of which were seen in a layer of lymph which invested the synovial mem- brane and the cartilages. The patient ulti- mately recovered. When the chronic form of necrosis affects the tibia and the epiphysis is included in the disease, the knee-joint sometimes remains but little altered, but in other cases remarkable changes in its form take place. The leg is sometimes fully extended, and is even in ad- vance of the natural line, but it is more gene- rally flexed on the femur, and the tibia is at the same time somewhat curved into the form of an arch, the concavity looking forwards. We have frequently known displacement of the su- perior head of the tibia, where it enters into the formation of the knee-joint, to take place back- wards towards the popliteal space. This dis- placement is usually incomplete. We have examined many living examples of this defor- mity, and have had a few opportunities of inves- tigating the anatomical changes the joint has been subjected to. Many circumstances tend to influence the direction in which the luxation may take place. The position in which the limb is preserved during the attack of inflammation of the tibia is one of the most influential. As the limb is generally flexed during the first stage of the disease, the partial luxation backwards will be the one most likely to occur. In these cases, whether the femur or tibia close to the knee be the seat of the necrosis, more or less of effusion takes place into the synovial sac of the knee- joint ; all the ligaments of the joint become softened and relaxed; and the action of the hamstring muscles overcomes the resistance of any remaining structures, and the tibia is dis- located partialis backwards. vol. m Mr. West, surgeon to the Longford Infir- mary, sent to the writer of this article the leg and knee-joint of a man who had long con- tended against the consequences of a chronic necrosis of the tibia. There were from time to time exfoliations of bone, and a continual dis- charge of a thin sanious matter which so re- duced the strength of the patient as to render amputation necessary. A cast of the limb, taken by Mr. Smith, and the bone are preserved in the museum of the Richmond Hospital, (figs. 4 and 5,) from which it will be observed that the Fig. 4. Displacement of the tibia backwards from necrosts. displacement of the head of the tibia was par- tially backwards. This bone was drawn also somewhat upwards, passing inferiorly so far round the condyles of the femur that the arti- cular surfaces were almost abandoned. This is the simplest form of displacement of the tibia at the knee-joint from disease which we have noticed as the result of a chronic process of necrosis. We have seen some instances of necrosis in which the whole leg and foot were greatly rotated outwards on the femur, so that the inner ankle was placed directly forwards, and the outer malleolus directly backwards. In these cases the patella is completely dislocated on the outer condyle of the femur (Jig. 6), be- cause the tubercle of the tibia, in its movement of rotation outwards, carries with it the ligameuium F