NERVOUS SYSTEM. (Nervous Centres. The Encephalon.) 663 that great nervous mass which is situate above this plane, it will be obvious, even to the most superficial observer, that it admits of a con- venient subdivision into cerlain great segments, each of which, although extensively connected with the neighbouring ones, may yet be capable of acting as an independent centre, and, in short, possesses the anatomical as well as physiolo- gical properties of a ganglion. And on a more minute investigation the number of gangliform segments will be found to be greater than the observation of the mere surface of the ence- phalon would lead us to conclude. The sub- division, however, which it is most conve- nient for the purpose of description to adopt, is that already stated at page 650, into, 1, the medulla oblongata, which is immedi- ately continuous inferiorly with the spinal cord. This segment has certain characters of struc- ture which decidedly indicate its ganglionic nature ; several nerves of considerable size and of great physiological importance are implanted in it, and its external anatomy very clearly in- dicates its distinctness from the spinal cord inferiorly and from the other encephalic seg- ments above, of which that next in order pro- ceeding from below upwards, is, 2, the meso- cephale. To this mass, so called because of its intermediate position between the other seg- ments, the term isthmus has been also very appropriately applied, as it is the connecting link between all the encephalic segments. In- ferior and posterior to it is placed, 3, the cere- bellum, which has very intimate relations to the medulla oblongata as well as to the segment last described, but much less extensive ones to that which forms by far the largest proportion of the encephalon, namely, 4, the cerebrum, which therefore occupies the principal portion of the cranial cavity. The distinction between these different seg- ments is very obvious on an examination of the surfaces of the brain, which indeed ought to be the first step to be taken by the anatomist. To discover how they are connected to each other and to the spinal cord, how the corres- ponding portions on opposite sides of the mesial plane are associated together, what fibres are common to all the segments, and what peculiar to some, and, lastly, how the grey matter is related to the white,—these are the chief objects to be attained in the dissection of the brain. No one method of dissection will suffice for this purpose. The anatomist should first make himself familiar with the simple topographical anatomy of the brain, that is, with all those parts in it which possess such characters of form or structure as may entitle them to be regarded as distinct and de- serving of separate description, and have ob- tained for them a special appellation. The form, size, general structure, and relations of these parts should be carefully noted. And this method of examination is equally applica- ble to the dissection of each segment of the encephalon. But the most convenient way in which it can be conducted for ordinary prac- tical purposes, is to commence with the cere- bral hemispheres, and having studied their general structure as displayed on a horizontal section, to examine the extent and connections of the fibres which connect the right and left hemispheres with each other (the corpus cal- losum); then to open the ventricles, examine their shape and extent, and note the various particulars connected with the numerous parts which are brought into view by exposing those cavities. The dissector may next observe how certain of the parts concealed by the lateral ventricles are connected with the mesocephale (the optic thalami for instance), and, having been already acquainted with the various pro- minences which are seen upon the surface of the latter, he may by vertical, or transverse, or horizontal sections, investigate the manner in which the white matter of this segment con- nects itself with that of the neighbouring ones. In examining the cerebellum, the larger fis- sures afford sufficient indication for a con- venient subdivision of the organ, and by hori- zontal or vertical sections at various parts of it the connexion of the grey and white matter may be displayed, and of the latter to the me- socephale and medulla oblongata. The me- dulla oblongata has upon its surface various lines or fissures which denote the proper limits of its constituent columns, and which will be sufficient guide to the dissector in tracing the extent and connexions of each. Transverse and longitudinal sections also afford useful in- formation respecting the structure of this seg- ment of the encephalon and the relations of its parts. Such is the mode of dissection from above downwards, against which it has been greatly the fashion of late years to declaim with much vehemence. But, however the advocates of a particular theory may object, there can be no doubt that this method is by far the most useful for all practical purposes. It enables the anatomist, without difficulty, to study the pro- minent parts or landmarks (so to speak) of the brain, without a knowledge of which it is in vain to attempt any other mode of dissection. And for pathological investigations it is the only method which can be conveniently adopted. It is plain, therefore, that all who are desirous of becoming acquainted with the anatomy of this organ should begin by making dissections in this way. An additional advantage is found, in this mode of investigation, from its great ap- plicability to the dissection of the brains of the lower animals, of the Mammalia and Birds especially, for the purpose of comparing them with the brain of the human subject. The method of our celebrated countryman Willis was very much the same as that above described. He removed the membranes from the posterior lobes of the hemispheres, and thus separated the latter from the subjacent parts, and by raising them as far forwards as possible he was enabled to observe the con- nections of the cerebral hemispheres with the mesocephale, and the attachments of the fornix behind. He also must have studied the sub- stance of the hemisphere by horizontal section. By then dividing the posterior parts of the hemispheres horizontally along the plane of the