353 MICROSCOPE. When condensed light is employed with deep powers, great care is necessary in order to bring out the best effects of a microscope, with difficult objects. These remarks apply to the simple as to the compound forms of the instrument. We do not ourselves consider the ordinary condenser as of much more value for the higher than for the lower class of trans- parent objects; and we think that it may be discarded from the instrument without dis- advantage. Great assistance may be obtained, however, from a well-constructed condenser, in the resolution of the more difficult class of microscopic objects. That which was pro- posed by Dr. Wollaston for use with his doublet consists of a tube about six inches long, having at the lower end a diaphragm with a circular perforation about three-tenths of an inch in diameter, through which light, proceeding from a radial point or surface, is reflected by a minor below it. At the upper end of the tube is a plano-convex lens, about three-fourths of an inch focus, with its plane side next the observer; the object of which is to form a distinct image of the circular per- foration in the plane of the object, which should be at about eight-tenths of an inch from the lens. We consider this instrument to be theoretically faulty; inasmuch as the point from which the illuminating rays di- verge, and the limiting aperture are not co- incident, so that pencils brought to a focus for the former are not for the latter. The length of the tube, again, is an inconvenience, espe- cially in the case of small microscopes. Never- theless, it is much superior to the ordinaiy form of condenser. An improvement was suggested by Dr. Goring, which consisted in shortening the tube below the lens, and re- moving the stop from that end of it to the other, so that it should be just beneath the object; in this manner the illuminating rays may be brought to a focus on the object, the superfluous ones being cut off by the stop. We have derived much advantage from the use of this condenser in the small doublet mi- croscope already noticed, and by a slight mo- dification of it we can obtain a variety of illumination, which is often very useful. Our condenser consists of three tubes, one sliding within the other; the outer one is fixed to the under side of the stage; the second carries at its upper end the stop, the distance of which from the object may thus be changed, and the inner one carries the condensing lens. A stop may be screwed into the bottom of the latter, if it i3 desired to adopt Dr. Wollaslon's plan. We have derived the greatest advantage from the use of this condenser, however, by using it with direct light from a radiant point at some distance,—a bright cloud, for instance, in the day-time,—and a lamp or candle on the opposite end of the table at night. In either of these cases, the focus of the illuminating rays may be made coincident with the plane of the object, without that glare which will almost certainly be produced if the source of light is nearer and more intense. When thus used, Dr. Goring's condenser approaches in its vol. ni. character to that of Sir D. Brewster,* which we shall now describe, adding some ideas of our own in reference to its construction. The principle of illumination on which Sir D. Brewster lays great, and we think fully- deserved stress, is, that the focus of the illu- minating rays shall be coincident with the object, so that there shall not be two sets of rays at different angles, one proceeding from the luminous object and the other from the object to be magnified. This can only be attained in any degree by making the image of the illuminating; body coincident with the object; and it will be perfectly accomplished, in proportion as the rays forming that image are themselves free from aberration. If, for example, the white rays have been separated into their component colours by the condenser, these colours will be imparted to the object, the appearance of which will also be rendered less distinct by the spherical aberration of the condensing lens. Hence an achromatic lens, or, if this be objected to on account of its expense, a Herschel's aplanatic doublet, should be used as the condenser; the latter we have found to answer very well, as the centre of the circle illuminated by it is very nearly free from false colour. Further, if a mirror be employed to change the course of the rays, it should be of metal, in order to avoid the false rays reflected from the first surface of the glass. If day-light be employed, no other precaution is necessary; but if the illumination be obtained from a lamp or candle, it will be necessary to limit the amount of light ad- mitted. This must not be by a stop placed, beneath the lens, for the reason already speci- fied ; but it should be accomplished by a stop or shade placed as near as possible to thejlame, so that the image of that and of the flame may be brought—virtually if not exactly—to the same focus. We have found that the same end may be attained by removing the lamp or candle to a greater distance, so as to diminish the intensity of the light to the required amount, and only a very low flame will then be required, as the condensation of the rays is much more perfect than with the ordinary lens. The achromatic condenser is strongly recommended also by M. Dujardin, an eminent microscopist of France; and we know that it is now considered an indispensable addition to microscropes of the highest class, affording, as it does, the means of resolving objects, previously considered too difficult to admit of a clear view of their nature. We are disposed to think, however, that some improvement is necessary in order to develope the highest powers of this instrument. The rays of light proceeding from the radiant point or object, being brought to a focus by the condenser on its surface, cross each other there, and should proceed to the object-glass of the microscope, as if they came from the object itself. Now, unless they are made to converge upon the object at the same angle at which they diverge * Treatise on the Microscope, from the Jincya clop^dia fiiitannica. 2 \