475 MOTION. Fig. 267 many of the small insects leap a greater dis- tance in proportion to their masses than the larger animals; for example, if the Flea, which can leap two hundred times its own height, were as large as the Cricket, it could only leap as far as it does at present; but the latter can leap much higher than the former, and there- fore, of these two insects, the Cricket is the best organized for leaping. We shall now pro- ceed to investigate the effect of the extension of the legs of insects in leaping. and the muscular force equals J /, during the time t' of its spring, 4.s e3 and, (' = 4t The velocity of the cat will be, v = j%fs hence, that of the tiger it, (36; (37) 4s that is, the tiger and cat have the same velocity, and therefore the same height of spring, reckoned from the positions of their centres of gravity at the instant of their quitting the ground, Let f g (Jig. 267) be the axis of the body, passing through the centre of gravity o; a b, the tarsus; b c, the leg; c d, the thigh, with the trochanter; and d e, the hip. All these articulations being flexed, the tarsal extremity b of the leg is advanced forwards under the centre of gravity o, which is a little above it. In this state, if the tarsus a b, which is di- rected backwards, become flexed, the angle a b c opens, and as the tarsus rests against the ground, the leg b c begins to move, and raising its crural extremity, draws with it the whole body. Now, as the centre of gravity is placed before the point b, instead of being elevated, it is, on the contrary, urged forwards and downwards, describing an arc of a circle, of which the centre is b, and the action of the flexor muscle of the tarsus continuing during the whole time that the limb is resting against the ground, the direction of the motion which it impresses on the centre of gravity changes at each point of the arc which the latter de- scribes in being always a tangent to this arc. We might thus determine its action for each of these points, but for greater simplicity we shall select only three ; namely, the commence- ment, middle, and the end of the motion. During the flexion of the tarsus, the leg expands itself, and tends to open the angle bed; but since it rests with its tarsal extre- mity upon the plane of position, the thigh c d be- comes moveable, and is raised forwards, turning as a radius round itscruro- tibial articulation c, and carrying with it the whole body, in the same manner as in the motion of the leg; the direction of the force produced by the extensor muscle changes at each point of the curve which the centre of gra- vity describes; but this direction is always a tangent to the curve, and consequently per- pendicular to the radius c o, passing through the cruro-tibial articulation and centre of gravity. The motion produced by the extensor muscle of the trochanter on the thigh c d, opens the angle c d e, tending to depress it at its tibial extremity, but as it rests upon the leg, which by its own elevation resists it, the motion is wholly communicated to the hip d e, which is flexed forward, and carries the body with it; the direction of the force of this muscle is perpendicular to the radius (/ o, passing through d, the articulation of the hip with the tro- chanter and the centre of gravity. Lastly, the motion produced by the extension of the hip e d upon the body in a direction opposite to that of the thigh, is perpendicular to e o, and impresses on the centre of gravity an oblique impulse downwards and backwards. The forces resulting from the extension of the tarsus and the hip being very feeble, may be neglected. The muscular force expended in these mo- tions may be thus approximatively estimated. By the extension of the leg, the centre of gra- vity o will be acted on at the beginning of