430 MOTION. resembling the keel of a boat. The feathers are furnished with an oleaginous secretion, which prevents the water from penetrating to the skin ; they also enlarge the bulk of the bird without very sensibly increasing its weight. In the Palmipedes, the osseous system, though more dense and less permeated with air than in birds destined for long and continued flight, is yet so light as to render their specific gravity considerably less than water, so that a large proportion of the body is sustained above its level by hydrostatic pressure alone. The in- terdigital membranes which give an expanded surface to the feet of these birds, acting at the end of the long lever, formed by the metatarsal bone, enable them to strike the water with considerable force.* In the effective stroke pro- duced by the extension of the legs, the flat surface of the feet is presented to the water in the direction of motion, whilst in the back stroke they are drawn forwards very obliquely and with less force. In the former action, the centre of gravity is accelerated, but during the latter it is retarded, so that there results a succession of impulses and a variable motion. The Swan and other Palmipedes sometimes spread out their wings as a sail, upon which the wind acts with sufficient force to propel them along without the expenditure of any muscular power. The specific gravity of birds, being much less than unity, enables thein to glide upon the surface of the water without any expenditure of muscular action in the vertical, consequently it is required only in the horizontal direction. Quadrupeds.—Many quadrupeds have their feet pal mated to afford a larger surface for striking the water in swimming. Many of the Saurian, Batrachian, and Chelonian tribes have their feet thus organized, though the Caymans are semipalmated. The lateral direction of the locomotive organs of the three former orders enables them to give an oblique stroke down- wards and backwards, so as to communicate an ascending as well as a horizontal impulse to the centre of gravity, and thus to prevent their sinking whilst they are urged forwards. In the common Otter the feet are also palmated, a construction winch enables them to move in the water with surprising agility, and with suf- ficient velocity to overtake and capture the fish on which they prey. In a similar manner the feet of the Newfoundland Dog are also furnished with interdigital membranes, but owing to the number of their respiratory move- ments in a minute they are incapable of re- maining below the surface of the water for lengthened periods. The Uuminantia, Carni- vora, and Pachydermata, being all of less spe- cific gravity than water, can swim with facility, and their locomotive organs, acting as in ter- restrial progression, render swimming a task of easy accomplishment. Quadrupeds swim by the alternate extension and flexion of their legs; the effective stroke is performed during extension, and the back stroke during flexion, presenting in the former a larger area to the water than in the latter. In consequence of the difference of their specific gravities, the Horse is capable of swimming even when loaded with the weight of a man, w ith a large proportion of its body above the surface of the water. The feet of the Solidunguli are well formed for striking tin.' water, the flat portions of which arc employed in the effective and the convex in the back stroke, so that the propor- tion of the resistance of the water in these two strokes, owing to the figure of the foot, are to each other nearly as two to one.* Man.—The figure of the human body, the position of the respiratory apertures, the number of respiratory movements made in a a minute, the different plane in which the loco- motive organs usually act in terrestrial progres- sion, and the small surfaces which the hand and feet present to the water, contribute to render man the least adapted of almost all animals for swim- ming. The specific gravity varies in different indi- viduals; it is rather greater than water when the chest is nearly exhausted, and less when well expanded with air; hence a man has always an hydrostatic apparatus which will keep him floating, if he has the knowledge of this fact and sufficient presence of mind to employ it. The density and temperature of water produce at the moment of immersion an involuntary expulsion of air from the chest, added to which the consequent alarm and misdirected struggles facilitate the fatal catastrophe of drowning. In swimming, the hands and feel are employed so as to present the least surface to the water in the back and the greatest in the effective stroke; in the former the hands are brought near the mesial plane, with the palmar surfaces parallel to each other; they are then thrust forward by the extension of the arm, with the points of the fingers in advance to cut the water with the least resistance; when the hands have nearly reached their greatest distance from the centre of gravity, they are rotated by pronation, so that the palms are directed at an oblique aiv_de outwards and downwards; they are then forced backwards by the abduction of the whole arm through a large arc of a circle, having the shoul- der-joint for its centre, and the length of the arm for its radius ; the fore-arm is then flexed, and carried into its former position preparatory to making another stroke. During the exten- sion of the arm, the feet are drawn towards the centre of gravity, with their convex surface directed obliquely backwards by the extension of the ankle and flexion of the hip and knee joints, and during the adduction of the arm the flat surfaces of the feet are driven forcibly backwards and downwards by the sudden ex- tension of the leg. Prom the ratio of the areas of the hands and feet, and the ratio of the dif- ference of their velocities in the two strokes, there results such a preponderance of the force in the vertical direction upwards and in the hori- zontal direction forwards as is sufficient to keep the resp.ratory openings above the surface of the See Principles of the Resistance of Fluids. * Sec Resistance of Fluids.