PHYSIOLOGY OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 720n change rapidly propagated along the nerve, from molecule to molecule, from the point of application of the stimulus. The change is obviously analogous to that which takes place in the particles of a piece of soft iron, in virtue of which the iron acquires the properties of a magnet, so long as it is maintained in a certain relation to a galvanic current; the magnetic power being instantly communicated when the circuit is completed, and as rapidly removed when it is interrupted. The action of the stimulus, then, excites a state of polarity of the particles of the nerve stimulated ; and this polar state may be in- duced in other particles, whether muscular or nervous, with which the nerve stimulated may be in organic connexion. Just as the polar state of the electrical apparatus is capable of being communicated to the piece of soft iron, which thereby acquires the well-known mag- netic properties during the continuance of the excited polarity. Thus, then, we learn that such is the nature of the nerve fibre, that under the application of a stimulus, mechanical, chemical, or galvanic, it is capable of generating a polar force analo- gous in many particulars to that of muscle; this force we call the nervous force, vis nervosa, or nervous polarity.* And if we examine the ordinary mode of the development of the nervous force, in the usual actions of the frame, we find that under the influence of a mental stimulus, the will, it is propagated from the nervous centre along the nerves to muscles, or under the influence of a physical stimulus it is propagated along the nerves to the centres, where it is capable of exciting either a sensation or muscular motion in a secondary manner, or both. But the application of a physical stimulus to a nervous centre may cause the development of nervous force, which may be conducted away from it by nerves which are implanted in it. And thus we learn that the same polar condition which may be produced in nerves is equally capable ot being excited in nervous centres. The polar condition of the nerve fibre may be propagated to the nervous centre, or that of the nervous centre to the nerve fibre. In some of the nervous centres, however, no visible change of any kind takes place upon the irritation of the nervous matter, nor does the ani- mal seem to suffer pain. Such is the case when the hemispheres of the brain are the subject of experiment. We are not to infer from this that the nervous force is not developed in these centres, but that they have no direct connexion with the muscular system, nor have they that peculiar organization which would enable them when irritated to excite painful sensations. There are certain nerves which when stimu- lated excite neither muscular motion nor com- * I have been in the habit of taking this view of the nervous force in my lectures for the last four or five years, and of using the terra, nervous polarity, as expressive of the nature of the nervous force. This term has likewise been adopted by Mr. Bow- man and myself in our work on the Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man, vol. i. p. 56, and in the chapters on the Nervous System, passim. mon sensation or pain, but a sensation peculiar to themselves. Thus if the optic nerve be sti- mulated by a mechanical or galvanic stimulus, a sensation of light is produced ; if the auditory nerve be stimulated in like manner, a sensation of sound is produced. These facts prove not only that a peculiar force is generated by the nervous matter, but they also show that the nerve fibres in the cen- tres, as well as in the nerves, possess special endowments depending, in all probability, upon their central as well as upon their peripheral connexions. Thus nerve-fibres connected with muscles are capable of exciting muscular con- traction, and are therefore called motor or mus- cular nerves. Nerve-fibres, which are distri- buted to a sentient surface, as the skin or mu- cous membrane, and have a certain relation with that part of the nervous centre which con- stitutes the centre of sensation, (vide p. 711,) are when stimulated capable of exciting a feel- ing which may be agreeable or painful, accord- ing to the degree of stimulation. These are called sensitive nerves, or nerves of common sensation. To the class of sensitive nerves belong those which, owing no doubt to a pecu- liarity in their connexion with the centre, as well as to their relation to a special apparatus at their periphery, develope peculiar sensations, as the nerves of sight, hearing, taste, &c, and they have been distinguished as nerves of special sensation. Very many sentient nerves are implanted in the nervous centre near to certain motor nerves, so that a stimulus applied to the former is capable of reacting upon the latter, and of ex- citing motion through their connexion with the muscles. Dr. M. Hall, however, ingeniously supposes that this power resides only in a par- ticular class of nerve-fibres (and not in the ordinary sentient nerves through their closeness of relation with the ordinary motor nerves). A nerve of this kind would constitute an arc, consisting of an incident and a reflex portion, which are united at the nervous centre. The stimulus is conveyed to the centre by the inci- dent portion, and is then reflected into the reflex or motor portion. Such nerves, Dr.Hall designates excito-motor. We shall examine further on the grounds of this hypothesis. It is an important fact, which Sir C. Bell was the first clearly to prove, that nerve-fibres of different endowments may be bound together in one sheath, forming, in anatomical language, one nerve. Thus a nerve may contain sentient and motor fibres, as the median nerve in the arm, or if we admitted Dr. Hall's hypothesis, it might contain sentient, motor, and excito- motor fibres. And most nerves in the diffe- rent regions of the body are of this description, i. e. compound nerves, made up of sentient and motor fibres bound together in the same sheath, in very different proportions. In many of these nerves, as in the spinal nerves, and the fifth pair, the separation of the fibres of motion from those of sensation exists at the implantation in the centre, and there the fibres of each endow- ment are collected into a separate bundle, which possesses the endowment proper to its constituent fibres. These are the roots of these