552 MYRIAPODA. 315. appearance that they present towards their termi nation appear in some species to perform likewise the office of reserveirs for the seminal fluid. In a large African species Mr. Newport found the double organ of intromission to be prehensile [fig- 314, B, a), each part having the form of a distinct claw between the move- able joints, of which passes out the elongated half corneous penis. These parts are co- vered in anteriorly by a horny valve somewhat of a trian- gular form, and the whole oc- cupies an oval space on the under surface of the seventh segment, corresponding to that usually occupied by the legs. " With regard to the product of secretion in these organs," ob- serves Mr. Newport,* " I have never yet found any thing but a granulous fluid in the cceca, apparently similar to the gra- nules in the higher animals from which Spermatozoa are produced, but this might have arisen from the immature re- cent specimens I was alone able to obtain. It would be interesting to ascertain whether these germs of Spermatozoa are produced in the cceca as there seems reason to believe, as we shall presently find that the ova in the female are secreted in sacs which appear to be ana- logous to these cceca in the male organs. I am inclined to think that the Spermatozoa are not developed until the granu- lous fluid has passed into the efferential ducts at the season of impregnation." The female organs of the Julida (jig. 315) are described with equal minuteness in the paper above referred to, from which we extract the following exceedingly valuable observa- tions, as nearly as possible in the words of Mr. Newport him- self, to whom we are also in- debted for the illustrative fi- gures. In the female Julus, the organs of reproduction are as simple as those of the male. They consist of a single elon- gated bag or oviduct, covered on its exterior surface with a very great number of ovisacs or cceca of various sizes, each of which secretes but a single ovum. This oviduct extends backwards beneath the alimentary canal, from its * Phil. Trans, for 1841. double vaginal outlet (a a), which is situated in the fourth segment behind the second pair of legs, as far as the posterior part of the rectum close to the anus, where it ends in a cul-de-sac (d). It is most nearly in contact with the alimentary canal on its upper surface, but is separated from it by adipose tissue; m the pregnant female it is smooth, and dis- tended with ova that have passed into it from the ovisacs, and are ready to be de- posited immediately after intercourse with the male. The ova at the anal extremity, that is, at the commencement, of the duct are as perfect as those near the vaginal outlets. The oviduct contains within its cavity, at least from seventy to eighty of these perfect eggs awaiting impregnation, arranged in two or more irregular rows, and greatly distending its sides. In some of the larger species of the genus there are four and in others five rows of eggs, the number of which is much greater than m our na- tive species. The ovisacs (fig-315 and 316, c c) If Fig. 316. are little sacculi, distributed thickly to the num- ber of many hundreds over the whole exterior of the oviduct, from its posterior or ccecal ex- tremity to within a short distance of its vaginal outlets. Each ovisac, whatever be its state of developement, contains but a single ovum, every part of which is produced in it, from the germinal vesicle in the most rudimentary form to the yelk, albuminous fluid, and shell. This fact deserves particular consideration. A large proportion of the ova in the ovisacs never arrive at maturity, but are retarded in their growth by the more rapid developement of others that are near them, so that on examining an oviduct partially distended with ova, the greater number of ovisacs in different states of developement, are at the sides and on the under-surface of the duct, in parts which corres- pond to the interstices between the fully deve- loped eggs, that have passed into the oviduct, or are still forming on its exterior. One row of ovisacs usually exists on each side of the duct near its upper part, but most of the ovisacs in the course of developement are at its sides.